THE HARVESTER

By Gene Stratton-Porter

Author Of A Girl Of The Limberlost, Freckles, Etc.

                        THIS PORTION
               OF THE LIFE OF A MAN OF TO-DAY
          IS OFFERED IN THE HOPE THAT IN CLEANLINESS,
             POETIC TEMPERMENT, AND MENTAL FORCE,
                    A LIKENESS WILL BE SEEN
                            TO
                     HENRY DAVID THOREAU

CHAPTER

     I.     Belshazzar's Decision
     II.    The Effect of a Dream
     III.   Harvesting the Forest
     IV.    A Commission for the South Wind
     V.     When the Harvester Made Good
     VI.    To Labour and to Wait
     VII.   The Quest of the Dream Girl
     VIII.  Belshazzar's Record Point
     IX.    The Harvester Goes Courting
     X.     The Chime of the Blue Bells
     XI.    Demonstrated Courtship
     XII.   ''The Way of a Man with a Maid''
     XIII.  When the Dream Came True
     XIV.   Snowy Wings
     XV.    The Harvester Interprets Life
     XVI.   Granny Moreland's Visit
     XVII.  Love Invades Science
     XVIII. The Better Man
     XIX.   A Vertical Spine
     XX.    The Man in the Background
     XXI.   The Coming of the Bluebird

CHARACTERS

     DAVID LANGSTON, A Harvester of the Woods.
     RUTH JAMESON, A Girl of the City.
     GRANNY MORELAND, An Interested Neighbour.
     DR. CAREY, Chief Surgeon of the Onabasha Hospital.
     MRS. CAREY, Wife of the Doctor.
     DR. HARMON, Who Concludes to Leave the City.
     MOLLY BARNET, A Hospital Nurse with a Heart.
     HENRY JAMESON, A Trader Without a Heart.
     ALEXANDER HERRON, Who Made a Concession.
     MRS. HERRON, A Gentle Woman.
     THE KENNEDYS, Philadelphia Lawyers.

THE HARVESTER

CHAPTER I. BELSHAZZAR'S DECISION

"Bel, come here!" The Harvester sat in the hollow worn in the hewed log stoop by the feet of
his father and mother and his own sturdier tread, and rested his head against the casing of
the cabin door when he gave the command. The tip of the dog's nose touched the gravel between
his paws as he crouched flat on earth, with beautiful eyes steadily watching the master, but
he did not move a muscle.

"Bel, come here!"

Twinkles flashed in the eyes of the man when he repeated the order, while his voice grew more
imperative as he stretched a lean, wiry hand toward the dog. The animal's eyes gleamed and
his sensitive nose quivered, yet he lay quietly.

"Belshazzar, kommen Sie hier!"

The body of the dog arose on straightened legs and his muzzle dropped in the outstretched palm.
A wind slightly perfumed with the odour of melting snow and unsheathing buds swept the lake
beside them, and lifted a waving tangle of light hair on the brow of the man, while a level
ray of the setting sun flashed across the water and illumined the graven, sensitive face, now
alive with keen interest in the game being played.

"Bel, dost remember the day?" inquired the Harvester.

The eager attitude and anxious eyes of the dog betrayed that he did not, but was waiting with
every sense alert for a familiar word that would tell him what was expected.

"Surely you heard the killdeers crying in the night," prompted the man. "I called your attention
when the ecstasy of the first bluebird waked the dawn. All day you have seen the gold-yellow
and blood-red osiers, the sap-wet maples and spring tracing announcements of her arrival on
the sunny side of the levee."

The dog found no clew, but he recognized tones he loved in the suave, easy voice, and his tail
beat his sides in vigorous approval. The man nodded gravely.

"Ah, so! Then you realize this day to be the most important of all the coming year to me; this
hour a solemn one that influences my whole after life. It is time for your annual decision
on my fate for a twelve-month. Are you sure you are fully alive to the gravity of the situation,
Bel?"

The dog felt himself safe in answering a rising inflection ending in his name uttered in that
tone, and wagged eager assent.

"Well then," said the man, "which shall it be? Do I leave home for the noise and grime of the
city, open an office and enter the money-making scramble?"

Every word was strange to the dog, almost breathlessly waiting for a familiar syllable. The
man gazed steadily into the animal's eyes. After a long pause he continued:

"Or do I remain at home to harvest the golden seal, mullein, and ginseng, not to mention an
occasional hour with the black bass or tramps for partridge and cotton-tails?"

The dog recognized each word of that. Before the voice ceased, his sleek sides were quivering,
his nostrils twitching, his tail lashing, and at the pause he leaped up and thrust his nose
against the face of the man. The Harvester leaned back laughing in deep, full-chested tones;
then he patted the dog's head with one hand and renewed his grip with the other.

"Good old Bel!" he cried exultantly. "Six years you have decided for me, and right----every
time! We are of the woods, Bel, born and reared here as our fathers before us. What would we
of the camp fire, the long trail, the earthy search, we harvesters of herbs the famous chemists
require, what would we do in a city? And when the sap is rising, the bass splashing, and the
wild geese honking in the night! We never could endure it, Bel.

"When we delivered that hemlock at the hospital to-day, did you hear that young doctor talking
about his 'lid'? Well up there is ours, old fellow! Just sky and clouds overhead for us, forest
wind in our faces, wild perfume in our nostrils, muck on our feet, that's the life for us.
Our blood was tainted to begin with, and we've lived here so long it is now a passion in our
hearts. If ever you sentence us to life in the city, you'll finish both of us, that's what
you'll do! But you won't, will you? You realize what God made us for and what He made for us,
don't you, Bel?"

As he lovingly patted the dog's head the man talked and the animal trembled with delight. Then
the voice of the Harvester changed and dropped to tones of gravest import.

"Now how about that other matter, Bel? You always decide that too. The time has come again.
Steady now! This is far more important than the other. Just to be wiped out, Bel, pouf! That
isn't anything and it concerns no one save ourselves. But to bring misery into our lives and
live with it daily, that would be a condition to rend the soul. So careful, Bel! Cautious now!"

The voice of the man dropped to a whisper as he asked the question.

"What about the girl business?"

Trembling with eagerness to do the thing that would bring more caressing, bewildered by unfamiliar
words and tones, the dog hesitated.

"Do I go on as I have ever since mother left me, rustling for grub, living in untrammelled
freedom? Do I go on as before, Bel?"

The Harvester paused and waited the answer, with anxiety in his eyes as he searched the beast
face. He had talked to that dog, as most men commune with their souls, for so long and played
the game in such intense earnest that he felt the results final with him. The animal was immovable
now, lost again, his anxious eyes watching the face of the master, his eager ears waiting for
words he recognized. After a long time the man continued slowly and hesitantly, as if fearing
the outcome. He did not realize that there was sufficient anxiety in his voice to change its tones.

"Or do I go courting this year? Do I rig up in uncomfortable store-clothes, and parade before
the country and city girls and try to persuade the one I can get, probably----not the one I
would want----to marry me, and come here and spoil all our good times? Do we want a woman around
scolding if we are away from home, whining because she is lonesome, fretting for luxuries we
cannot afford to give her? Are you going to let us in for a scrape like that, Bel?"

The bewildered dog could bear the unusual scene no longer. Taking the rising inflection, that
sounded more familiar, for a cue, and his name for a certainty, he sprang forward, his tail
waving as his nose touched the face of the Harvester. Then he shot across the driveway and
lay in the spice thicket, half the ribs of one side aching, as he howled from the lowest depths
of dog misery.

"You ungrateful cur!" cried the Harvester. "What has come over you? Six years I have trusted
you, and the answer has been right, every time! Confound your picture! Sentence me to tackle
the girl proposition! I see myself! Do you know what it would mean? For the first thing you'd
be chained, while I pranced over the country like a half-broken colt, trying to attract some
girl. I'd have to waste time I need for my work and spend money that draws good interest while
we sleep, to tempt her with presents. I'd have to rebuild the cabin and there's not a chance
in ten she would not fret the life out of me whining to go to the city to live, arrange for
her here the best I could. Of all the fool, unreliable dogs that ever trod a man's tracks,
you are the limit! And you never before failed me! You blame, degenerate pup, you!"

The Harvester paused for breath and the dog subsided to a pitiful whimper. He was eager to
return to the man who had struck him the first blow his pampered body ever had received; but
he could not understand a kick and harsh words for him, so he lay quivering with anxiety and fear.

"You howling, whimpering idiot!" exclaimed the Harvester. "Choose a day like this to spoil!
Air to intoxicate a mummy! Roots swelling! Buds bursting! Harvest close and you'd call me off
and put me at work like that, would you? If I ever had supposed lost all your senses, I never
would have asked you. Six years you have decided my fate, when the first bluebird came, and
you've been true blue every time. If I ever trust you again! But the mischief is done now.

"Have you forgotten that your name means 'to protect?' Don't you remember it is because of
that, it is your name? Protect! I'd have trusted you with my life, Bell! You gave it to me
the time you pointed that rattler within six inches of my fingers in the blood-root bed. You
saw the falling limb in time to warn me. You always know where the quicksands lie. But you
are protecting me now, like sin, ain't you? Bring a girl here to spoil both our lives! Not
if I know myself! Protect!"

The man arose and going inside the cabin closed the door. After that the dog lay in abject
misery so deep that two big tears squeezed from his eyes and rolled down his face. To be shut
out was worse than the blow. He did not take the trouble to arise from the wet leaves covering
the cold earth, but closing his eyes went to sleep.

The man leaned against the door and ran his fingers through his hair as he anathematized the
dog. Slowly his eyes travelled around the room. He saw his tumbled bed by the open window facing
the lake, the small table with his writing material, the crude rack on the wall loaded with
medical works, botanies, drug encyclopaedias, the books of the few authors who interested him,
and the bare, muck-tracked floor. He went to the kitchen, where he built a fire in the cook
stove, and to the smoke-house, from which he returned with a slice of ham and some eggs. He
set some potatoes boiling and took bread, butter and milk from the pantry. Then he laid a small
note-book on the table before him and studied the transactions of the day.

     10 lbs. wild cherry bark      6 cents       $.60
     5   "   wahoo root bark      25 "           1.25
     20  "   witch hazel bark      5 "           1.00
     5   "   blue flag root       12 "           .60
     10  "   snake root           18 "           1.80
     10  "   blood root           12 "           1.20
     15  "   hoarhound            10 "           1.50
                                                 -----
                                                $7.95

"Not so bad," he muttered, bending over the figures. "I wonder if any of my neighbours who
harvest the fields average as well at this season. I'll wager they don't. That's pretty fair!
Some days I don't make it, and then when a consignment of seeds go or ginseng is wanted the
cash comes in right properly. I could waste half of it on a girl and yet save money. But where
is the woman who would be content with half? She'd want all and fret because there wasn't more.
Blame that dog!"

He put the book in his pocket, prepared and ate his supper, heaped a plate generously, placed
it on the floor beneath the table, and set away the food that remained.

"Not that you deserve it," he said to space. "You get this in honour of your distinguished
name and the faithfulness with which you formerly have lived up to its import. If you hadn't
been a dog with more sense than some men, I wouldn't take your going back on me now so hard.
One would think an animal of your intelligence might realize that you would get as much of
a dose as I. Would she permit you to eat from a plate on the kitchen floor? Not on your life,
Belshazzar! Frozen scraps around the door for you! Would she allow you to sleep across the
foot of the bed? Ho, ho, ho! Would she have you tracking on her floor? It would be the barn,
and growling you didn't do at that. If I'd serve you right, I'd give you a dose and allow you
to see how you like it. But it's cutting off my nose to spite my face, as the old adage goes,
for whatever she did to a dog, she'd probably do worse to a man. I think not!"

He entered the front room and stood before a long shelf on which were arranged an array of
partially completed candlesticks carved from wood. There were black and white walnut, red,
white, and golden oak, cherry and curly maple, all in original designs. Some of them were oddities,
others were failures, but most of them were unusually successful. He selected one of black
walnut, carved until the outline of his pattern was barely distinguishable. He was imitating
the trunk of a tree with the bark on, the spreading, fern-covered roots widening for the base,
from which a vine sprang. Near the top was the crude outline of a big night moth climbing toward
the light. He stood turning this stick with loving hands and holding it from him for inspection.

"I am going to master you!" he exulted. "Your lines are right. The design balances and it's
graceful. If I have any trouble it will be with the moth, and I think I can manage. I've got
to decide whether to use cecropia or polyphemus before long. Really, on a walnut, and in the
woods, it should be a luna, according to the eternal fitness of things----but I'm afraid of
the trailers. They turn over and half curl and I believe I had better not tackle them for a
start. I'll use the easiest to begin on, and if I succeed I'll duplicate the pattern and try
a luna then. The beauties!"

The Harvester selected a knife from the box and began carving the stick slowly and carefully.
His brain was busy, for presently he glanced at the floor.

"She'd object to that!" he said emphatically. "A man could no more sit and work where he pleased
than he could fly. At least I know mother never would have it, and she was no nagger, either.
What a mother she was! If one only could stop the lonely feeling that will creep in, and the
aching hunger born with the body, for a mate; if a fellow only could stop it with a woman like
mother! How she revelled in sunshine and beauty! How she loved earth and air! How she went
straight to the marrow of the finest line in the best book I could bring from the library!
How clean and true she was and how unyielding! I can hear her now, holding me with her last
breath to my promise. If I could marry a girl like mother----great Caesar! You'd see me buying
an automobile to make the run to the county clerk. Wouldn't that be great! Think of coming
in from a long, difficult day, to find a hot supper, and a girl such as she must have been,
waiting for me! Bel, if I thought there was a woman similar to her in all the world, and I
had even the ghost of a chance to win her, I'd call you in and forgive you. But I know the
girls of to-day. I pass them on the roads, on the streets, see them in the cafe's, stores,
and at the library. Why even the nurses at the hospital, for all the gravity of their positions,
are a giggling, silly lot; and they never know that the only time they look and act presentably
to me is when they stop their chatter, put on their uniforms, and go to work. Some of them
are pretty, then. There's a little blue-eyed one, but all she needs is feathers to make her
a 'ha! ha! bird.' Drat that dog!"

The Harvester took the candlestick and the box of knives, opened the door, and returned to
the stoop. Belshazzar arose, pleading in his eyes, and cautiously advanced a few steps. The
man bent over his work and paid not the slightest heed, so the discouraged dog sank to earth
and fixedly watched the unresponsive master. The carving of the candlestick went on steadily.
Occasionally the Harvester lifted his head and repeatedly sucked his lungs full of air. Sometimes
for an instant he scanned the surface of the lake for signs of breaking fish or splash of migrant
water bird. Again his gaze wandered up the steep hill, crowned with giant trees, whose swelling
buds he could see and smell. Straight before him lay a low marsh, through which the little
creek that gurgled and tumbled down hill curved, crossed the drive some distance below, and
entered the lake of Lost Loons.

While the trees were bare, and when the air was clear as now, he could see the spires of Onabasha,
five miles away, intervening cultivated fields, stretches of wood, the long black line of the
railway, and the swampy bottom lands gradually rising to the culmination of the tree-crowned
summit above him. His cocks were crowing warlike challenges to rivals on neighbouring farms.
His hens were carolling their spring egg-song. In the barn yard ganders were screaming stridently.
Over the lake and the cabin, with clapping snowy wings, his white doves circled in a last joy-flight
before seeking their cotes in the stable loft. As the light grew fainter, the Harvester worked
slower. Often he leaned against the casing, and closed his eyes to rest them. Sometimes he
whistled snatches of old songs to which his mother had cradled him, and again bits of opera
and popular music he had heard on the streets of Onabasha. As he worked, the sun went down
and a half moon appeared above the wood across the lake. Once it seemed as if it were a silver
bowl set on the branch of a giant oak; higher, it rested a tilted crescent on the rim of a cloud.

The dog waited until he could endure it no longer, and straightening from his crouching position,
he took a few velvet steps forward, making faint, whining sounds in his throat. When the man
neither turned his head nor gave him a glance, Belshazzar sank to earth again, satisfied for
the moment with being a little closer. Across Loon Lake came the wavering voice of a night
love song. The Harvester remembered that as a boy he had shrunk from those notes until his
mother explained that they were made by a little brown owl asking for a mate to come and live
in his hollow tree. Now he rather liked the sound. It was eloquent of earnest pleading. With
the lonely bird on one side, and the reproachful dog eyes on the other, the man grinned rather
foolishly.

Between two fires, he thought. If that dog ever catches my eye he will come tearing as a cyclone,
and I would not kick him again for a hundred dollars. First time I ever struck him, and didn't
intend to then. So blame mad and disappointed my foot just shot out before I knew it. There
he lies half dead to make up, but I'm blest if I forgive him in a hurry. And there is that
insane little owl screeching for a mate. If I'd start out making sounds like that, all the
girls would line up and compete for possession of my happy home.

The Harvester laughed and at the sound Belshazzar took courage and advanced five steps before
he sank belly to earth again. The owl continued its song. The Harvester imitated the cry and
at once it responded. He called again and leaned back waiting. The notes came closer. The Harvester
cried once more and peered across the lake, watching for the shadow of silent wings. The moon
was high above the trees now, the knife dropped in the box, the long fingers closed around
the stick, the head rested against the casing, and the man intoned the cry with all his skill,
and then watched and waited. He had been straining his eyes over the carving until they were
tired, and when he watched for the bird the moonlight tried them; for it touched the lightly
rippling waves of the lake in a line of yellow light that stretched straight across the water
from the opposite bank, directly to the gravel bed below, where lay the bathing pool. It made
a path of gold that wavered and shimmered as the water moved gently, but it appeared sufficiently
material to resemble a bridge spanning the lake.

"Seems as if I could walk it," muttered the Harvester.

The owl cried again and the man intently watched the opposite bank. He could not see the bird,
but in the deep wood where he thought it might be he began to discern a misty, moving shimmer
of white. Marvelling, he watched closer. So slowly he could not detect motion it advanced,
rising in height and taking shape.

"Do I end this day by seeing a ghost?" he queried.

He gazed intently and saw that a white figure really moved in the woods of the opposite bank.

"Must be some boys playing fool pranks!" exclaimed the Harvester.

He watched fixedly with interested face, and then amazement wiped out all other expression
and he sat motionless, breathless, looking, intently looking. For the white object came straight
toward the water and at the very edge unhesitatingly stepped upon the bridge of gold and lightly,
easily advanced in his direction. The man waited. On came the figure and as it drew closer
he could see that it was a very tall, extremely slender woman, wrapped in soft robes of white.
She stepped along the slender line of the gold bridge with grace unequalled.

From the water arose a shining mist, and behind the advancing figure a wall of light outlined
and rimmed her in a setting of gold. As she neared the shore the Harvester's blood began to
race in his veins and his lips parted in wonder. First she was like a slender birch trunk,
then she resembled a wild lily, and soon she was close enough to prove that she was young and
very lovely. Heavy braids of dark hair rested on her head as a coronet. Her forehead was low
and white. Her eyes were wide-open wells of darkness, her rounded cheeks faintly pink, and
her red lips smiling invitation. Her throat was long, very white, and the hands that caught
up the fleecy robe around her were rose-coloured and slender. In a panic the Harvester saw
that the trailing robe swept the undulant gold water, but was not wet; the feet that alternately
showed as she advanced were not purple with cold, but warm with a pink glow.

She was coming straight toward him, wonderful, alluring, lovely beyond any woman the Harvester
ever had seen. Straightway the fountains of twenty-six years' repression overflowed in the
breast of the man and all his being ran toward her in a wave of desire. On she came, and now
her tender feet were on the white gravel. When he could see clearly she was even more beautiful
than she had appeared at a distance. He opened his lips, but no sound came. He struggled to
rise, but his legs would not bear his weight. Helpless, he sank against the casing. The girl
walked to his feet, bent, placed a hand on each of his shoulders, and smiled into his eyes.
He could scent the flower-like odour of her body and wrapping, even her hair. He struggled
frantically to speak to her as she leaned closer, yet closer, and softly but firmly laid lips
of pulsing sweetness on his in a deliberate kiss.

The Harvester was on his feet now. Belshazzar shrank into the shadows.

"Come back!" cried the man. "Come back! For the love of mercy, where are you?"

He ran stumblingly toward the lake. The bridge of gold was there, the little owl cried lonesomely;
and did he see or did he only dream he saw a mist of white vanishing in the opposite wood?

His breath came between dry lips, and he circled the cabin searching eagerly, but he could
find nothing, hear nothing, save the dog at his heels. He hurried to the stoop and stood gazing
at the molten path of moonlight. One minute he was half frozen, the next a rosy glow enfolded
him. Slowly he lifted a hand and touched his lips. Then he raised his eyes from the water and
swept the sky in a penetrant gaze.

"My gracious Heavenly Father," said the Harvester reverently. "Would it be like that?"

CHAPTER II. THE EFFECT OF A DREAM

Fully convinced at last that he had been dreaming, the Harvester picked up his knives and candlestick
and entered the cabin. He placed them on a shelf and turned away, but after a second's hesitation
he closed the box and arranged the sticks neatly. Then he set the room in order and carefully
swept the floor. As he replaced the broom he thought for an instant, then opened the door and
whistled softly. Belshazzar came at a rush. The Harvester pushed the plate of food toward the
hungry dog and he ate greedily. The man returned to the front room and closed the door.

He stood a long time before his shelf of books, at last selected a volume of "Medicinal Plants"
and settled to study. His supper finished, Belshazzar came scratching and whining at the door.
Several times the man lifted his head and glanced in that direction, but he only returned to
his book and read again. Tired and sleepy, at last, he placed the volume on the shelf, went
to a closet for a pair of bath towels, and hung them across a chair. Then he undressed, opened
the door, and ran for the lake. He plunged with a splash and swam vigorously for a few minutes,
his white body growing pink under the sting of the chilled water. Over and over he scanned
the golden bridge to the moon, and stood an instant dripping on the gravel of the landing to
make sure that no dream woman was crossing the wavering floor! He rubbed to a glow and turned
back the covers of his bed. The door and window stood wide. Before he lay down, the Harvester
paused in arrested motion a second, then stepped to the kitchen door and lifted the latch.

As the man drew the covers over him, the dog's nose began making an opening, and a little later
he quietly walked into the room. The Harvester rested, facing the lake. The dog sniffed at
his shoulder, but the man was rigid. Then the click of nails could be heard on the floor as
Belshazzar went to the opposite side. At his accustomed place he paused and set one foot on
the bed. There was not a sound, so he lifted the other. Then one at a time he drew up his hind
feet and crouched as he had on the gravel. The man lay watching the bright bridge. The moonlight
entered the window and flooded the room. The strong lines on the weather-beaten face of the
Harvester were mellowed in the light, and he appeared young and good to see. His lithe figure
stretched the length of the bed, his hair appeared almost white, and his face, touched by the
glorifying light of the moon, was a study.

One instant his countenance was swept with ultimate scorn; then gradually that would fade and
the lines soften, until his lips curved in child-like appeal and his eyes were filled with
pleading. Several times he lifted a hand and gently touched his lips, as if a kiss were a material
thing and would leave tangible evidence of having been given. After a long time his eyes closed
and he scarcely was unconscious before Belshazzar's cold nose touched the outstretched hand
and the Harvester lifted and laid it on the dog's head.

"Forgive me, Bel," he muttered. "I never did that. I wouldn't have hurt you for anything. It
happened before I had time to think."

They both fell asleep. The clear-cut lines of manly strength on the face of the Harvester were
touched to tender beauty. He lay smiling softly. Far in the night he realized the frost-chill
and divided the coverlet with the happy Belshazzar.

The golden dream never came again. There was no need. It had done its perfect work. The Harvester
awoke the next morning a different man. His face was youthful and alive with alert anticipation.
He began his work with eager impetuosity, whistling and singing the while, and he found time
to play with and talk to Belshazzar, until that glad beast almost wagged off his tail in delight.
They breakfasted together and arranged the rooms with unusual care.

"You see," explained the Harvester to the dog, "we must walk neatly after this. Maybe there
is such a thing as fate. Possibly your answer was right. There might be a girl in the world
for me. I don't expect it, but there is a possibility that she may find us before we locate
her. Anyway, we should work and be ready. All the old stock in the store-house goes out as
soon as we can cart it. A new cabin shall rise as fast as we can build it. There must be a
basement and furnace, too. Dream women don't have cold feet, but if there is a girl living
like that, and she is coming to us or waiting for us to come to her, we must have a comfortable
home to offer. There should be a bathroom, too. She couldn't dip in the lake as we do. And
until we build the new house we must keep the old one clean, just on the chance of her happening
on us. She might be visiting some of the neighbours or come from town with some one or I might
see her on the street or at the library or hospital or in some of the stores. For the love
of mercy, help me watch for her, Bel! The half of my kingdom if you will point her for me!"

The Harvester worked as he talked. He set the rooms in order, put away the remains of breakfast,
and started to the stable. He turned back and stood for a long time, scanning the face in the
kitchen mirror. Once he went to the door, then he hesitated, and finally took out his shaving
set and used it carefully and washed vigorously. He pulled his shirt together at the throat,
and hunting among his clothing, found an old red tie that he knotted around his neck. This
so changed his every-day appearance that he felt wonderfully dressed and whistled gaily on
his way to the barn. There he confided in the old gray mare as he curried and harnessed her
to the spring wagon.

"Hardly know me, do you, Betsy?" he inquired. "Well, I'll explain. Our friend Bel, here, has
doomed me to go courting this year. Wouldn't that durnfound you? I was mad as hornets at first,
but since I've slept on the idea, I rather like it. Maybe we are too lonely and dull. Perhaps
the right woman would make life a very different matter. Last night I saw her, Betsy, and between
us, I can't tell even you. She was the loveliest, sweetest girl on earth, and that is all I
can say. We are going to watch for her to-day, and every trip we make, until we find her, if
it requires a hundred years. Then some glad time we are going to locate her, and when we do,
well, you just keep your eye on us, Betsy, and you'll see how courting straight from the heart
is done, even if we lack experience."

Intoxicated with new and delightful sensations his tongue worked faster than his hands.

"I don't mind telling you, old faithful, that I am in love this morning," he said. "In love
heels over, Betsy, for the first time in all my life. If any man ever was a bigger fool than
I am to-day, it would comfort me to know about it. I am acting like an idiot, Betsy. I know
that, but I wish you could understand how I feel. Power! I am the head-waters of Niagara! I
could pluck down the stars and set them in different places! I could twist the tail from the
comet! I could twirl the globe on my palm and topple mountains and wipe lakes from the surface!
I am a live man, Betsy. Existence is over. So don't you go at any tricks or I might pull off
your head. Betsy, if you see the tallest girl you ever saw, and she wears a dark diadem, and
has big black eyes and a face so lovely it blinds you, why you have seen Her, and you balk,
right on the spot, and stand like the rock of Gibraltar, until you make me see her, too. As
if I wouldn't know she was coming a mile away! There's more I could tell you, but that is my
secret, and it's too precious to talk about, even to my best friends. Bel, bring Betsy to the
store-room."

The Harvester tossed the hitching strap to the dog and walked down the driveway to a low structure
built on the embankment beside the lake. One end of it was a dry-house of his own construction.
Here, by an arrangement of hot water pipes, he evaporated many of the barks, roots, seeds,
and leaves he grew to supply large concerns engaged in the manufacture of drugs. By his process
crude stock was thoroughly cured, yet did not lose in weight and colour as when dried in the
sun or outdoor shade.

So the Harvester was enabled to send his customers big packages of brightly coloured raw material,
and the few cents per pound he asked in advance of the catalogued prices were paid eagerly.
He lived alone, and never talked of his work; so none of the harvesters of the fields adjoining
dreamed of the extent of his reaping. The idea had been his own. He had been born in the cabin
in which he now lived. His father and grandfather were old-time hunters of skins and game.
They had added to their earnings by gathering in spring and fall the few medicinal seeds, leaves,
and barks they knew. His mother had been of different type. She had loved and married the picturesque
young hunter, and gone to live with him on the section of land taken by his father. She found
life, real life, vastly different from her girlhood dreams, but she was one of those changeless,
unyielding women who suffer silently, but never rue a bargain, no matter how badly they are
cheated. Her only joy in life had been her son. For him she had worked and saved unceasingly,
and when he was old enough she sent him to the city to school and kept pace with him in the
lessons he brought home at night.

Using what she knew of her husband's work as a guide, and profiting by pamphlets published
by the government, every hour of the time outside school and in summer vacations she worked
in the woods with the boy, gathering herbs and roots to pay for his education and clothing.
So the son passed the full high-school course, and then, selecting such branches as interested
him, continued his studies alone.

From books and drug pamphlets he had learned every medicinal plant, shrub, and tree of his
vicinity, and for years roamed far afield and through the woods collecting. After his father's
death expenses grew heavier and the boy saw that he must earn more money. His mother frantically
opposed his going to the city, so he thought out the plan of transplanting the stuff he gathered,
to the land they owned and cultivating it there. This work was well developed when he was twenty,
but that year he lost his mother.

From that time he went on steadily enlarging his species, transplanting trees, shrubs, vines,
and medicinal herbs from such locations as he found them to similar conditions on his land.
Six years he had worked cultivating these beds, and hunting through the woods on the river
banks, government land, the great Limberlost Swamp, and neglected corners of earth for barks
and roots. He occasionally made long trips across the country for rapidly diminishing plants
he found in the woodland of men who did not care to bother with a few specimens, and many big
beds of profitable herbs, extinct for miles around, now flourished on the banks of Loon Lake,
in the marsh, and through the forest rising above. To what extent and value his venture had
grown, no one save the Harvester knew. When his neighbours twitted him with being too lazy
to plow and sow, of "mooning" over books, and derisively sneered when they spoke of him as
the Harvester of the Woods or the Medicine Man, David Langston smiled and went his way.

How lonely he had been since the death of his mother he never realized until that morning when
a new idea really had taken possession of him. From the store-house he heaped packages of seeds,
dried leaves, barks, and roots into the wagon. But he kept a generous supply of each, for he
prided himself on being able to fill all orders that reached him. Yet the load he took to the
city was much larger than usual. As he drove down the hill and passed the cabin he studied
the location.

"The drainage is perfect," he said to Belshazzar beside him on the seat. "So is the situation.
We get the cool breezes from the lake in summer and the hillside warmth in winter. View down
the valley can't be surpassed. We will grub out that thicket in front, move over the driveway,
and build a couple of two-story rooms, with basement for cellar and furnace, and a bathroom
in front of the cabin and use it with some fixing over for a dining-room and kitchen. Then
we will deepen and widen Singing Water, stick a bushel of bulbs and roots and sow a peck of
flower seeds in the marsh, plant a hedge along the drive, and straighten the lake shore a little.
I can make a beautiful wild-flower garden and arrange so that with one season's work this will
appear very well. We will express this stuff and then select and fell some trees to-night.
Soon as the frost is out of the ground we will dig our basement and lay the foundations. The
neighbours will help me raise the logs; after that I can finish the inside work. I've got some
dried maple, cherry, and walnut logs that would work into beautiful furniture. I haven't forgotten
the prices McLean offered me. I can use it as well as he. Plain way the best things are built
now, I believe I could make tables and couches myself. I can see plans in the magazines at
the library. I'll take a look when I get this off. I feel strong enough to do all of it in
a few days and I am crazy to commence. But I scarcely know where to begin. There are about
fifty things I'd like to do. But to fell and dry the trees and get the walls up come first,
I believe. What do you think, old unreliable?"

Belshazzar thought the world was a place of beauty that morning. He sniffed the icy, odorous
air and with tilted head watched the birds. A wearied band of ducks had settled on Loon Lake
to feed and rest, for there was nothing to disturb them. Signs were numerous everywhere prohibiting
hunters from firing over the Harvester's land. Beside the lake, down the valley, crossing the
railroad, and in the farther lowlands, the dog was a nervous quiver, as he constantly scented
game or saw birds he wanted to point. But when they neared the city, he sat silently watching
everything with alert eyes. As they reached the outer fringe of residences the Harvester spoke
to him.

"Now remember, Bel," he said. "Point me the tallest girl you ever saw, with a big braid of
dark hair, shining black eyes, and red velvet lips, sweeter than wild crab apple blossoms.
Make a dead set! Don't allow her to pass us. Heaven is going to begin in Medicine Woods when
we find her and prove to her that there lies her happy home.

"When we find her," repeated the Harvester softly and exultantly. "When we find her!"

He said it again and again, pronouncing the words with tender modulations. Because he was chanting
it in his soul, in his heart, in his brain, with his lips, he had a hasty glance for every
woman he passed. Light hair, blue eyes, and short figures got only casual inspection: but any
tall girl with dark hair and eyes endured rather close scrutiny that morning. He drove to the
express office and delivered his packages and then to the hospital. In the hall the blue-eyed
nurse met him and cried gaily, "Good morning, Medicine Man!"

"Ugh! I scalp pale-faces!" threatened the Harvester, but the girl was not afraid and stood
before him laughing. She might have gone her way quite as well. She could not have differed
more from the girl of the newly begun quest. The man merely touched his wide-brimmed hat as
he walked around her and entered the office of the chief surgeon.

A slender, gray-eyed man with white hair turned from his desk, smiled warmly, pushed a chair,
and reached a welcoming hand.

"Ah good-morning, David," he cried. "You bring the very breath of spring with you. Are you
at the maples yet?"

"Begin to-morrow," was the answer. "I want to get all my old stock off hands. Sugar water comes
next, and then the giddy sassafras and spring roots rush me, and after that, harvest begins
full force, and all my land is teeming. This is going to be a big year. Everything is sufficiently
advanced to be worth while. I have decided to enlarge the buildings."

"Store-room too small?"

"Everything!" said the Harvester comprehensively. "I am crowded everywhere."

The keen gray eyes bent on him searchingly.

"Ho, ho!" laughed the doctor. "'Crowded everywhere.' I had not heard of cramped living quarters
before. When did you meet her?"

"Last night," replied the Harvester. "Her home is already in construction. I chose seven trees
as I drove here that are going to fall before night."

So casual was the tone the doctor was disarmed.

"I am trying your nerve remedy," he said.

Instantly the Harvester tingled with interest.

"How does it work?" he inquired.

"Finely! Had a case that presented just the symptoms you mentioned. High-school girl broken
down from trying to lead her classes, lead her fraternity, lead her parents, lead society----the
Lord only knows what else. Gone all to pieces! Pretty a case of nervous prostration as you
ever saw in a person of fifty. I began on fractional doses with it, and at last got her where
she can rest. It did precisely what you claimed it would, David."

"Good!" cried the Harvester. "Good! I hoped it would be effective. Thank you for the test.
It will give me confidence when I go before the chemists with it. I've got a couple more compounds
I wish you would try when you have safe cases where you can do no harm."

"You are cautious for a young man, son!"

"The woods do that. You not only discover miracles and marvels in them, you not only trace
evolution and the origin of species, but you get the greatest lessons taught in all the world
ground into you early and alone----courage, caution, and patience."

"Those are the rocks on which men are stranded as a rule. You think you can breast them, David?"

The Harvester laughed.

"Aside from breaking a certain promise mother rooted in the blood and bones of me, if I am
afraid of anything, I don't know it. You don't often see me going head-long, do you? As to
patience! Ten years ago I began removing every tree, bush, vine, and plant of medicinal value
from the woods around to my land; I set and sowed acres in ginseng, knowing I must nurse, tend,
and cultivate seven years. If my neighbours had understood what I was attempting, what do you
think they would have said? Cranky and lazy would have become adjectives too mild. Lunatic
would have expressed it better. That's close the general opinion, anyway. Because I will not
fell my trees, and the woods hide the work I do, it is generally conceded that I spend my time
in the sun reading a book. I do, as often as I have an opportunity. But the point is that this
fall, when I harvest that ginseng bed, I will clear more money than my stiffest detractor ever
saw at one time. I'll wager my bank account won't compare so unfavourably with the best of
them now. I did well this morning. Yes, I'll admit this much: I am reasonably cautious, I'm
a pattern for patience, and my courage never has failed me yet, anyway. But I must rap on wood;
for that boast is a sign that I probably will meet my Jonah soon."

"David, you are a man after my own heart," said the doctor. "I love you more than any other
friend I have I wouldn't see a hair of your head changed for the world. Now I've got to hurry
to my operation. Remain as long as you please if there is anything that interests you; but
don't let the giggling little nurse that always haunts the hall when you come make any impression.
She is not up to your standard."

"Don't!" said the Harvester. "I've learned one of the big lessons of life since last I saw
you, Doc. I have no standard. There is just one woman in all the world for me, and when I find
her I will know her, and I will be happy for even a glance; as for that talk of standards,
I will be only too glad to take her as she is."

"David! I supposed what you said about enlarged buildings was nonsense or applied to store-rooms."

"Go to your operation!"

"David, if you send me in suspense, I may operate on the wrong man. What has happened?"

"Nothing!" said the Harvester. "Nothing!"

"David, it is not like you to evade. What happened?"

"Nothing! On my word! I merely saw a vision and dreamed a dream."

"You! A rank materialist! Saw a vision and dreamed a dream! And you call it nothing. Worst
thing that could happen! Whenever a man of common-sense goes to seeing things that don't exist,
and dreaming dreams, why look out! What did you see? What did you dream?"

"You woman!" laughed the Harvester. "Talk about curiosity! I'd have to be a poet to describe
my vision, and the dream was strictly private. I couldn't tell it, not for any price you could
mention. Go to your operation."

The doctor paused on the threshold.

"You can't fool me," he said. "I can diagnose you all right. You are poet enough, but the vision
was sacred; and when a man won't tell, it's always and forever a woman. I know all now I ever
will, because I know you, David. A man with a loose mouth and a low mind drags the women of
his acquaintance through whatever mire he sinks in; but you couldn't tell, David, not even
about a dream woman. Come again soon! You are my elixir of life, lad! I revel in the atmosphere
you bring. Wish me success now, I am going to a difficult, delicate operation."

"I do!" cried the Harvester heartily. "I do! But you can't fail. You never have and that proves
you cannot! Good-bye!"

Down the street went the Harvester, passing over city pave with his free, swinging stride,
his head high, his face flushed with vivid outdoor tints, going somewhere to do something worth
while, the impression always left behind him. Men envied his robust appearance and women looked
twice, always twice, and sometimes oftener if there was any opportunity; but twice at least
was the rule. He left a little roll of bills at the bank and started toward the library. When
he entered the reading room an attendant with an eager smile hastily came toward him.

"What will you have this morning, Mr. Langston?" she asked in the voice of one who would render
willing service.

"Not the big books to-day," laughed the Harvester. "I've only a short time. I'll glance through
the magazines."

He selected several from a table and going to a corner settled with them and for two hours
was deeply engrossed. He took an envelope from his pocket, traced lines, and read intently.
He studied the placing of rooms, the construction of furniture, and all attractive ideas were
noted. When at last he arose the attendant went to replace the magazines on the table. They
had been opened widely, and as she turned the leaves they naturally fell apart at the plans
for houses or articles of furniture.

The Harvester slowly went down the street. Before every furniture store he paused and studied
the designs displayed in the windows. Then he untied Betsy and drove to a lumber mill on the
outskirts of the city and made arrangements to have some freshly felled logs of black walnut
and curly maple sawed into different sizes and put through a course in drying.

He drove back to Medicine Woods whistling, singing, and talking to Belshazzar beside him. He
ate a hasty lunch and at three o'clock was in the forest, blazing and felling slender, straight-trunked
oak and ash of the desired proportions.

CHAPTER III. HARVESTING THE FOREST

The forest is never so wonderful as when spring wrestles with winter for supremacy. While the
earth is yet ice bound, while snows occasionally fly, spring breathes her warmer breath of
approach, and all nature responds. Sunny knolls, embankments, and cleared spaces become bare,
while shadow spots and sheltered nooks remain white. This perfumes the icy air with a warmer
breath of melting snow. The sap rises in the trees and bushes, sets buds swelling, and they
distil a faint, intangible odour. Deep layers of dead leaves cover the frozen earth, and the
sun shining on them raises a steamy vapour unlike anything else in nature. A different scent
rises from earth where the sun strikes it. Lichen faces take on the brightest colours they
ever wear, and rough, coarse mosses emerge in rank growth from their cover of snow and add
another perfume to mellowing air. This combination has breathed a strange intoxication into
the breast of mankind in all ages, and bird and animal life prove by their actions that it
makes the same appeal to them.

Crows caw supremacy from tall trees; flickers, drunk on the wine of nature, flash their yellow-lined
wings and red crowns among trees in a search for suitable building places; nut-hatches run
head foremost down rough trunks, spying out larvae and early emerging insects; titmice chatter;
the bold, clear whistle of the cardinal sounds never so gaily; and song sparrows pipe from
every wayside shrub and fence post. Coons and opossums stir in their dens, musk-rat and ground-hog
inspect the weather, while squirrels race along branches and bound from tree to tree like winged
folk.

All of them could have outlined the holdings of the Harvester almost as well as any surveyor.
They understood where the bang of guns and the snap of traps menaced life. Best of all, they
knew where cracked nuts, handfuls of wheat, oats, and crumbs were scattered on the ground,
and where suet bones dangled from bushes. Here, too, the last sheaf from the small wheat field
at the foot of the hill was stoutly fixed on a high pole, so that the grain was free to all
feathered visitors.

When the Harvester hitched Betsy, loaded his spiles and sap buckets into the wagon, and started
to the woods to gather the offering the wet maples were pouring down their swelling sides,
almost his entire family came to see him. They knew who fed and passed every day among them,
and so were unafraid.

After the familiarity of a long, cold winter, when it had been easier to pick up scattered
food than to search for it, they became so friendly with the man, the dog, and the gray horse
that they hastily snatched the food offered at the barn and then followed through the woods.
The Harvester always was particular to wear large pockets, for it was good company to have
living creatures flocking after him, trusting to his bounty. Ajax, a shimmering wonder of gorgeous
feathers, sunned on the ridge pole of the old log stable, preened, spread his train, and uttered
the peacock cry of defiance, to exercise his voice or to express his emotions at all times.
But at feeding hour he descended to the park and snatched bites from the biggest turkey cocks
and ganders and reigned in power absolute over ducks, guineas, and chickens. Then he followed
to the barn and tried to frighten crows and jays, and the gentle white doves under the eaves.

The Harvester walked through deep leaves and snow covering the road that only a forester could
have distinguished. Over his shoulder he carried a mattock, and in the wagon were his clippers
and an ax. Behind him came Betsy drawing the sap buckets and big evaporating kettles. Through
the wood ranged Belshazzar, the craziest dog in all creation. He always went wild at sap time.
Here was none of the monotony of trapping for skins around the lake. This marked the first
full day in the woods for the season. He ranged as he pleased and came for a pat or a look
of confidence when he grew lonely, while the Harvester worked.

At camp the man unhitched Betsy and tied her to the wagon and for several hours distributed
buckets. Then he hung the kettles and gathered wood for the fire. At noon he returned to the
cabin for lunch and brought back a load of empty syrup cans, and barrels in which to collect
the sap. While the buckets filled at the dripping trees, he dug roots in the sassafras thicket
to fill orders and supply the demand of Onabasha for tea. Several times he stopped to cut an
especially fine tree.

"You know I hate to kill you," he apologized to the first one he felled. "But it certainly
must be legitimate for a man to take enough of his trees to build a home. And no other house
is possible for a creature of the woods but a cabin, is there? The birds use of the material
they find here; surely I have the right to do the same. Seems as if nothing else would serve,
at least for me. I was born and reared here, I've always loved you; of course, I can't use
anything else for my home."

He swung the ax and the chips flew as he worked on a straight half-grown oak. After a time
he paused an instant and rested, and as he did so he looked speculatively at his work.

"I wonder where she is to-day," he said. "I wonder what she is going to think of a log cabin
in the woods. Maybe she has been reared in the city and is afraid of a forest. She may not
like houses made of logs. Possibly she won't want to marry a Medicine Man. She may dislike
the man, not to mention his occupation. She may think it coarse and common to work out of doors
with your hands, although I'd have to argue there is a little brain in the combination. I must
figure out all these things. But there is one on the lady: She should have settled these points
before she became quite so familiar. I have that for a foundation anyway, so I'll go on cutting
wood, and the remainder will be up to her when I find her. When I find her," repeated the Harvester
slowly. "But I am not going to locate her very soon monkeying around in these woods. I should
be out where people are, looking for her right now."

He chopped steadily until the tree crashed over, and then, noticing a rapidly filling bucket,
he struck the ax in the wood and began gathering sap. When he had made the round, he drove
to the camp, filled the kettles, and lighted the fire. While it started he cut and scraped
sassafras roots, and made clippings of tag alder, spice brush and white willow into big bundles
that were ready to have the bark removed during the night watch, and then cured in the dry-house.

He went home at evening to feed the poultry and replenish the ever-burning fire of the engine
and to keep the cabin warm enough that food would not freeze. With an oilcloth and blankets
he returned to camp and throughout the night tended the buckets and boiling sap, and worked
or dozed by the fire between times. Toward the end of boiling, when the sap was becoming thick,
it had to be watched with especial care so it would not scorch. But when the kettles were freshly
filled the Harvester sat beside them and carefully split tender twigs of willow and slipped
off the bark ready to be spread on the trays.

"You are a good tonic," he mused as he worked, "and you go into some of the medicine for rheumatism.
If she ever has it we will give her some of you, and then she will be all right again. Strange
that I should be preparing medicinal bark by the sugar camp fire, but I have to make this hay,
not while the sun shines, but when the bark is loose, while the sap is rising. Wonder who will
use this. Depends largely on where I sell it. Anyway, I hope it will take the pain out of some
poor body. Prices so low now, not worth gathering unless I can kill time on it while waiting
for something else. Never got over seven cents a pound for the best I ever sold, and it takes
a heap of these little quills to make a pound when they are dry. That's all of you----about
twenty-five cents' worth. But even that is better than doing nothing while I wait, and some
one has to keep the doctors supplied with salicin and tannin, so, if I do, other folks needn't
bother."

He arose and poured more sap into the kettles as it boiled away and replenished the fire. He
nibbled a twig when he began on the spice brush. As he sat on the piled wood, and bent over
his work he was an attractive figure. His face shone with health and was bright with anticipation.
While he split the tender bark and slipped out the wood he spoke his thoughts slowly:

"The five cents a pound I'll get for you is even less, but I love the fragrance and taste.
You don't peel so easy as the willow, but I like to prepare you better, because you will make
some miserable little sick child well or you may cool some one's fevered blood. If ever she
has a fever, I hope she will take medicine made from my bark, because it will be strong and
pure. I've half a notion to set some one else gathering the stuff and tending the plants and
spend my time in the little laboratory compounding different combinations. I don't see what
bigger thing a man can do than to combine pure, clean, unadulterated roots and barks into medicines
that will cool fevers, stop chills, and purify bad blood. The doctors may be all right, but
what are they going to do if we men behind the prescription cases don't supply them with unadulterated
drugs. Answer me that, Mr. Sapsucker. Doc says I've done mighty well so far as I have gone.
I can't think of a thing on earth I'd rather do, and there's money no end in it. I could get
too rich for comfort in short order. I wouldn't be too wealthy to live just the way I do for
any consideration. I don't know about her, though. She is lovely, and handsome women usually
want beautiful clothing, and a quantity of things that cost no end of money. I may need all
I can get, for her. One never can tell."

He arose to stir the sap and pour more from the barrels to the kettles before he began on the
tag alder he had gathered.

"If it is all the same to you, I'll just keep on chewing spice brush while I work," he muttered.
"You are entirely too much of an astringent to suit my taste and you bring a cent less a pound.
But you are thicker and dry heavier, and you grow in any quantity around the lake and on the
marshy places, so I'll make the size of the bundle atone for the price. If I peel you while
I wait on the sap I'm that much ahead. I can spread you on drying trays in a few seconds and
there you are. Howl your head off, Bel, I don't care what you have found. I wouldn't shoot
anything to-day, unless the cupboard was bare and I was starvation hungry. In that case I think
a man comes first, and I'd kill a squirrel or quail in season, but blest if I'd butcher a lot
or do it often. Vegetables and bread are better anyway. You peel easier even than the willow.
What jolly whistles father used to make!

"There was about twenty cents' worth of spice, and I'll easy raise it to a dollar on this.
I'll get a hundred gallons of syrup in the coming two weeks and it will bring one fifty if
I boil and strain it carefully and can guarantee it contains no hickory bark and brown sugar.
And it won't! Straight for me or not at all. Pure is the word at Medicine Woods; syrup or drugs
it's the same thing. Between times I can fell every tree I'll need for the new cabin, and average
a dollar a day besides on spice, alder, and willow, and twice that for sassafras for the Onabasha
markets; not to mention the quantities I can dry this year. Aside from spring tea, they seem
to use it for everything. I never yet have had enough. It goes into half the tonics, anodyne,
and stimulants; also soap and candy. I see where I grow rich in spite of myself, and also where
my harvest is going to spoil before I can garner it, if I don't step lively and double even
more than I am now. Where the cabin is to come in----well it must come if everything else goes.

"The roots can wait and I'll dig them next year and get more and larger pieces. I won't really
lose anything, and if she should come before I am ready to start to find her, why then I'll
have her home prepared. How long before you begin your house, old fire-fly?" he inquired of
a flaming cardinal tilting on a twig.

He arose to make the round of the sap buckets again, then resumed his work peeling bark, and
so the time passed. In the following ten days he collected and boiled enough sap to make more
syrup than he had expected. His earliest spring store of medicinal twigs, that were peeled
to dry in quills, were all collected and on the trays; he had digged several wagon loads of
sassafras and felled all the logs of stout, slender oak he would require for his walls. Choice
timber he had been curing for candlestick material he hauled to the saw-mills to have cut properly,
for the thought of trying his hand at tables and chairs had taken possession of him. He was
sure he could make furniture that would appear quite as well as the mission pieces he admired
on display in the store windows of the city. To him, chairs and tables made from trees that
grew on land that had belonged for three generations to his ancestors, trees among which he
had grown, played, and worked, trees that were so much his friends that he carefully explained
the situation to them before using an ax or saw, trees that he had cut, cured, and fashioned
into designs of his own, would make vastly more valuable furnishings in his home than anything
that could be purchased in the city.

As he drove back and forth he watched constantly for her. He was working so desperately, planning
far ahead, doubling and trebling tasks, trying to do everything his profession demanded in
season, and to prepare timber and make plans for the new cabin, as well as to start a pair
of candlesticks of marvellous design for her, that night was one long, unbroken sleep of the
thoroughly tired man, but day had become a delightful dream.

He fed the chickens to produce eggs for her. He gathered barks and sluiced roots on the raft
in the lake, for her. He grubbed the spice thicket before the door and moved it into the woods
to make space for a lawn, for her. His eyes were wide open for every woven case and dangling
cocoon of the big night moths that propagated around him, for her. Every night when he left
the woods from one to a dozen cocoons, that he had detected with remarkable ease while the
trees were bare, were stuck in his hat band. As he arranged them in a cool, dry place he talked
to them.

"Of course I know you are valuable and there are collectors who would pay well for you, but
I think not. You are the prettiest thing God made that I ever saw, and those of you that home
with me have no price on your wings. You are much safer here than among the crows and jays
of the woods. I am gathering you to protect you, and to show to her. If I don't find her by
June, you may go scot free. All I want is the best pattern I can get from some of you for candlestick
designs. Of everything in the whole world a candlestick should be made of wood. It should be
carved by hand, and of all ornamentations on earth the moth that flies to the night light is
the most appropriate. Owls are not so bad. They are of the night, and they fly to light, too,
but they are so old. Nobody I ever have known used a moth. They missed the best when they neglected
them. I'll make her sticks over an original pattern; I'll twine nightshade vines, with flowers
and berries around them, and put a trailed luna on one, and what is the next prettiest for
the other? I'll think well before if decide. Maybe she'll come by the time I get to carving
and tell me what she likes. That would beat my taste or guessing a mile."

He carefully arranged the twigs bearing cocoons in a big, wire-covered box to protect them
from the depredations of nibbling mice and the bolder attacks of the saucy ground squirrels
that stored nuts in his loft and took possession of the attic until their scampering sometimes
awoke him in the night.

Every trip he made to the city he stopped at the library to examine plans of buildings and
furniture and to make notes. The oak he had hauled was being hewed into shape by a neighbour
who knew how, and every wagon that carried a log to the city to be dressed at the mill brought
back timber for side walls, joists, and rafters. Night after night he sat late poring over
his plans for the new rooms, above all for her chamber. With poised pencil he wavered over
where to put the closet and entrance to her bath. He figured on how wide to make her bed and
where it should stand. He remembered her dressing table in placing windows and a space for
a chest of drawers. In fact there was nothing the active mind of the Harvester did not busy
itself with in those days that might make a woman a comfortable home. Every thought emanated
from impulses evolved in his life in the woods, and each was executed with mighty tenderness.

A killdeer sweeping the lake close two o'clock one morning awakened him. He had planned to
close the sugar camp for the season that day, but when he heard the notes of the loved bird
he wondered if that would not be a good time to stake out the foundations and begin digging.
There was yet ice in the ground, but the hillside was rapidly thawing, and although the work
would be easier later, so eager was the Harvester to have walls up and a roof over that he
decided to commence.

But when morning came and he and Belshazzar breakfasted and fed Betsy and the stock, he concluded
to return to his first plan and close the camp. All the sap collected that day went into the
vinegar barrel. He loaded the kettles, buckets, and spiles and stopped at the spice thicket
to cut a bale of twigs as he passed. He carried one load to the wagon and returned for another.
Down wind on swift wing came a bird and entered the bushes. Motionless the Harvester peered
at it. A mourning dove had returned to him through snow, skifting over cold earth. It settled
on a limb and began dressing its plumage. At that instant a wavering, "Coo coo a'gh coo," broke
in sobbing notes from the deep wood. Without paying the slightest heed, the dove finished a
wing, ruffled and settled her feathers, and opened her bill in a human-like yawn. The Harvester
smiled. The notes swelled closer in renewed pleading. The cry was beyond doubt a courting male
and this an indifferent female. Her beady eyes snapped, her head turned coquettishly, a picture
of self-possession, she hid among the dense twigs of the spice thicket. Around the outside
circled the pleading male.

With shining eyes the Harvester watched. These were of the things that made life in the woods
most worth while. More insistent grew the wavering notes of the lover. More indifferent became
the beloved. She was superb in her poise as she amused herself in hiding. A perfect burst of
confused, sobbing notes broke on the air. Then away in the deep wood a softly-wavering, half-questioning
"Coo-ah!" answered them. Amazement flashed into the eyes of the Harvester, but his face was
not nearly so expressive as that of the bird. She lifted a bewildered head and grew rigid in
an attitude of tense listening. There was a pause. In quicker measure and crowding notes the
male called again. Instantly the soft "Coo!" wavered in answer. The surprised little hen bird
of the thicket hopped straight up and settled on her perch again, her dark eyes indignant as
she uttered a short "Coo!" The muscles of the Harvester's chest were beginning to twitch and
quiver. More intense grew the notes of the pleading male. Softly seductive came the reply.
The clapping of his wings could be heard as he flew in search of the charmer. "A'gh coo!" cried
the deserted female as she tilted off the branch and tore through the thicket in pursuit, with
wings hastened by fright at the ringing laugh of the Harvester.

"Not so indifferent after all, Bel," he said to the dog standing in stiff point beside him.
"That was all 'pretend!' But she waited just a trifle too long. Now she will have to fight
it out with a rival. Good thing if some of the flirtatious women could have seen that. Help
them to learn their own minds sooner."

He laughed as he heaped the twigs on top of the wagon and started down the hill chuckling.
Belshazzar followed, leading Betsy straight in the middle of the road by the hitching strap.
A few yards ahead the man stopped suddenly with lifted hand. The dog and horse stood motionless.
A dove flashed across the road and settled in sight on a limb. Almost simultaneously another
perched beside it, and they locked bills in a long caress, utterly heedless of a plaintive
"Coo" in the deep wood.

"Settled!" said the Harvester. "Jupiter! I wish my troubles were that nearly finished! Wish
I knew where she is and how to find my way to her lips! Wonder if she will come when I call
her. What if I should find her, and she would have everything on earth, other lovers, and indifference
worse than Madam Dove's for me. Talk about bitterness! Well I'd have the dream left anyway.
And there are always two sides. There is just a possibility that she may be poor and overworked,
sick and tired, and wondering why I don't come. Possibly she had a dream, too, and she wishes
I would hurry. Dear Lord!"

The Harvester began to perspire as he strode down the hill. He scarcely waited to hang the
harness properly. He did not stop to unload the wagon until night, but went after an ax and
a board that he split into pegs. Then he took a ball of twine, a measuring line, and began
laying out his foundation, when the hard earth would scarcely hold the stakes he drove into
it. When he found he only would waste time in digging he put away the neatly washed kettles,
peeled the spice brush, spread it to dry, and prepared his dinner. After that he began hauling
stone and cement for his basement floor and foundation walls. Occasionally he helped at hewing
logs when the old man paused to rest. That afternoon the first robin of the season hailed him
in passing.

"Hello!" cried the Harvester. "You don't mean to tell me that you have beaten the larks! You
really have! Well since I see it, I must believe, but you are early. Come around to the back
door if crumbs or wheat will do or if you can make out on suet and meat bones! We are good
and ready for you. Where is your mate? For any sake, don't tell me you don't know. One case
of that kind at Medicine Woods is enough. Say you came ahead to see if it is too cold or to
select a home and get ready for her. Say anything on earth except that you love her, and want
her until your body is one quivering ache, and you don't know where she is."

CHAPTER IV. A COMMISSION FOR THE SOUTH WIND

The next morning the larks trailed ecstasy all over the valley, the following day cuckoos were
calling in the thickets, a warm wind swept from the south and set swollen buds bursting, while
the sun shone, causing the Harvester to rejoice. Betsy's white coat was splashed with the mud
of the valley road; the feet of Belshazzar left tracks over lumber piles; and the Harvester
removed his muck-covered shoes at the door and wore slippers inside. The skunk cabbage appeared
around the edge of the forest, rank mullein and thistles lay over the fields in big circles
of green, and even plants of delicate growth were thrusting their heads through mellowing earth
and dead leaves, to reach light and air.

Then the Harvester took his mattock and began to dig. His level best fell so far short of what
he felt capable of doing and desired to accomplish that the following day he put two more men
on the job. Then the earth did fly, and so soon as the required space was excavated the walls
were lined with stone and a smooth basement floor was made of cement. The night the new home
stood, a skeleton of joists and rafters, gleaming whitely on the banks of Loon Lake, the Harvester
went to the bridge crossing Singing Water and slowly came up the driveway to see how the work
appeared. He caught his breath as he advanced. He had intended to stake out generous rooms,
but this, compared with the cabin, seemed like a big hotel.

"I hope I haven't made it so large it will be a burden," he soliloquized. "It's huge! But while
I am at it I want to build big enough, and I think I have."

He stood on the driveway, his arms folded, and looked at the structure as he occasionally voiced
his thoughts.

"The next thing is to lay up the side walls and get the roof over. Got to have plenty of help,
for those logs are hewed to fourteen inches square and some of them are forty feet long. That's
timber! Grew with me, too. Personally acquainted with almost every tree of it. We will bed
them in cement, use care with the roof, and if that doesn't make a cool house in the summer,
and a warm one in winter, I'll be disappointed. It sets among the trees, and on the hillside
just right. We must have a wide porch, plenty of flowers, vines, ferns, and mosses, and when
I get everything finished and she sees it----perhaps it will please her."

A great horned owl swept down the hill, crossed the lake, and hooted from the forest of the
opposite bank. The Harvester thought of his dream and turned.

"Any women walking the water to-night? Come if you like," he bantered, "I don't mind in the
least. In fact, I'd rather enjoy it. I'd be so happy if you would come now and tell me how
this appears to you, for it's all yours. I'd have enlarged the store-room, dry-houses and laboratory
for myself, but this cabin, never! The old one suited me as it was; but for you----I should
have a better home."

The Harvester glanced from the shining skeleton to the bridge of gold and back again.

"Where are you to-night?" he questioned. "What are you doing? Can't you give me a hint of where
to search for you when this is ready? I don't know but I am beginning wrong. My little brothers
of the wood do differently. They announce their intentions the first thing, flaunt their attractions,
and display their strength. They say aloud, for all the listening world to hear, what is in
their hearts. They chip, chirp, and sing, warble, whistle, thrill, scream, and hoot it. They
are strong on self-expression, and appreciative of their appearance. They meet, court, mate,
and THEN build their home together after a mutual plan. It's a good way, too! Lots surer of
getting things satisfactory."

The Harvester sat on a lumber pile and gazed questioningly at the framework.

"I wish I knew if I am going at things right," he said. "There are two sides to consider. If
she is in a good home, and lovingly cared for, it would be proper to court her and get her
promise, if I could----no I'm blest if I'll be so modest----get her promise, as I said, and
let her wait while I build the cabin. But if she should be poor, tired, and neglected, then
I ought to have this ready when I find her, so I could pick her up and bring her to it, with
no more ceremony than the birds."

The Harvester's clear skin flushed crimson.

"Of course, I don't mean no wedding ceremony," he amended. "I was thinking of a long time wasted
in preliminaries when in my soul I know I am going to marry my Dream Girl before I ever have
seen her in reality. What would be the use in spending much time in courting? She is my wife
now, by every law of God. Let me get a glimpse of her, and I'll prove it. But I've got to make
tracks, for if she were here, where would I put her? I must hurry!"

He went to the work room and began polishing a table top. He had bought a chest of tools and
was spending every spare minute on tables, chair seats, and legs. He had decided to make these
first and carve candlesticks later when he had more time. Two hours he worked at the furniture,
and then went to bed. The following morning he put eggs under several hens that wanted to set,
trimmed his grape-vines, examined the precious ginseng beds, attended his stock, got breakfast
for Belshazzar and himself, and was ready for work when the first carpenter arrived. Laying
hewed logs went speedily, and before the Harvester believed it possible the big shingles he
had ordered were being nailed on the roof. Then came the plumber and arranged for the bathroom,
and the furnace man placed the heating pipes. The Harvester had intended the cabin to be mostly
the work of his own hands, but when he saw how rapidly skilled carpenters worked, he changed
his mind and had them finish the living-room, his room, and the upstairs, and make over the
dining-room and kitchen.

Her room he worked on alone, with a little help if he did not know how to join the different
parts. Every thing was plain and simple, after plans of his own, but the Harvester laid floors
and made window casings, seats, and doors of wood that the big factories of Grand Rapids used
in veneering their finest furniture. When one of his carpenters pointed out this to him, and
suggested that he sell his lumber to McLean and use pine flooring from the mills the Harvester
laughed at him.

"I don't say that I could afford to buy burl maple, walnut, and cherry for wood-work," said
the Harvester. "I could not, but since I have it, you can stake your life I won't sell it and
build my home of cheap, rapidly decaying wood. The best I have goes into this cabin and what
remains will do to sell. I have an idea that when this is done it is going to appear first
rate. Anyway, it will be solid enough to last a thousand years, and with every day of use natural
wood grows more beautiful. When we get some tables, couches, and chairs made from the same
timber as the casings and the floors, I think it will be fine. I want money, but I don't want
it bad enough to part with the BEST of anything I have for it. Go carefully and neatly there;
it will have to be changed if you don't."

So the work progressed rapidly. When the carpenters had finished the last stroke on the big
veranda they remained a day more and made flower boxes, and a swinging couch, and then the
greedy Harvester kept the best man with him a week longer to help on the furniture.

"Ain't you going to say a word about her, Langston?" asked this man as they put a mirror-like
surface on a curly maple dressing table top.

"Her!" ejaculated the Harvester. "What do you mean?"

"I haven't seen you bathe anywhere except in the lake since I have been here," said the carpenter.
"Do you want me to think that a porcelain tub, this big closet, and chest of drawers are for you?"

A wave of crimson swept over the Harvester.

"No, they are not for me," he said simply. "I don't want to be any more different from other
men than I can help, although I know that life in the woods, the rigid training of my mother,
and the reading of only the books that would aid in my work have made me individual in many
of my thoughts and ways. I suppose most men, just now, would tell you anything you want to
know. There is only one thing I can say: The best of my soul and brain, the best of my woods
and store-house, the best I can buy with money is not good enough for her. That's all. For
myself, I am getting ready to marry, of course. I think all normal men do and that it is a
matter of plain common-sense that they should. Life with the right woman must be infinitely
broader and better than alone. Are you married?"

"Yes. Got a wife and four children."

"Are you sorry?"

"Sorry!" the carpenter shrilled the word. "Sorry! Well that's the best I ever heard! Am I sorry
I married Nell and got the kids? Do I look sorry?"

"I am not expecting to be, either," said the Harvester calmly. "I think I have done fairly
well to stick to my work and live alone until I am twenty-six. I have thought the thing all
over and made up my mind. As soon as I get this house far enough along that I feel I can proceed
alone I am going to rush the marrying business just as fast as I can, and let her finish the
remainder to her liking."

"Well this ought to please her."

"That's because you find your own work good," laughed the Harvester.

"Not altogether!" The carpenter polished the board and stood it on end to examine the surface
as he talked. "Not altogether! Nothing but good work would suit you. I was thinking of the
little creek splashing down the hill to the lake; and that old log hewer said that in a few
more days things here would be a blaze of colour until fall."

"Almost all the drug plants and bushes leaf beautifully and flower brilliantly," explained
the Harvester. "I studied the location suitable to each variety before I set the beds and planned
how to grow plants for continuity of bloom, and as much harmony of colour as possible. Of course
a landscape gardener would tear up some of it, but seen as a whole it isn't so bad. Did you
ever notice that in the open, with God's blue overhead and His green for a background, He can
place purple and yellow, pink, magenta, red, and blue in masses or any combination you can
mention and the brighter the colour the more you like it? You don't seem to see or feel that
any grouping clashes; you revel in each wonderful growth, and luxuriate in the brilliancy of
the whole. Anyway, this suits me."

"I guess it will please her, too," said the carpenter. "After all the pains you've taken, she
is a good one if it doesn't."

"I'll always have the consolation of having done my best," replied the Harvester. "One can't
do more! Whether she likes it or not depends greatly on the way she has been reared."

"You talk as if you didn't know," commented the carpenter.

"You go on with this now," said the Harvester hastily. "I've got to uncover some beds and dig
my year's supply of skunk cabbage, else folk with asthma and dropsy who depend on me will be
short on relief. I ought to take my sweet flag, too, but I'm so hurried now I think I'll leave
it until fall; I do when I can, because the bloom is so pretty around the lake and the bees
simply go wild over the pollen. Sometimes I almost think I can detect it in their honey. Do
you know I've wondered often if the honey my bees make has medicinal properties and should
be kept separate in different seasons. In early spring when the plants and bushes that furnish
the roots and barks of most of the tonics are in bloom, and the bees gather the pollen, that
honey should partake in a degree of the same properties and be good medicine. In the summer
it should aid digestion, and in the fall cure rheumatism and blood disorders."

"Say you try it!" urged the carpenter. "I want a lot of the fall kind. I'm always full of rheumatism
by October. Exposure, no doubt."

"Over eating of too much rich food, you mean," laughed the Harvester. "I'd like to see any
man expose his body to more differing extremes of weather than I do, and I'm never sick. It's
because I am my own cook and so I live mostly on fruits, vegetables, bread, milk, and eggs,
a few fish from the lake, a little game once in a great while or a chicken, and no hot drinks;
plenty of fresh water, air, and continuous work out of doors. That's the prescription! I'd
be ashamed to have rheumatism at your age. There's food in the cupboard if you grow hungry.
I am going past one of the neighbours on my way to see about some work I want her to do."

The Harvester stopped for lunch, carried food to Belshazzar, and started straight across country,
his mattock, with a bag rolled around the handle, on his shoulder. His feet sank in the damp
earth at the foot of the hill, and he laughed as he leaped across Singing Water.

"You noisy chatterbox!" cried the man. "The impetus of coming down the curves of the hill keeps
you talking all the way across this muck bed to the lake. With small work I can make you a
thing of beauty. A few bushes grubbed, a little deepening where you spread too much, and some
more mallows along the banks will do the trick. I must attend to you soon."

"Now what does the boy want?" laughed a white-haired old woman, as the Harvester entered the
door. "Mebby you think I don't know what you're up to! I even can hear the hammering and the
voices of the men when the wind is in the south. I've been wondering how soon you'd need me.
Out with it!"

"I want you to get a woman and come over and spend a day with me. I'll come after you and bring
you back. I want you to go over mother's bedding and have what needs it washed. All I want
you to do is to superintend, and tell me now what I will want from town for your work."

"I put away all your mother's bedding that you were not using, clean as a ribbon."

"But it has been packed in moth preventives ever since and out only four times a year to air,
as you told me. It must smell musty and be yellow. I want it fresh and clean."

"So what I been hearing is true, David?"

"Quite true!" said the Harvester.

"Whose girl is she, and when are you going to jine hands?"

The Harvester lifted his clear eyes and hesitated.

"Doc Carey laid you in my arms when you was born, David. I tended you 'fore ever your ma did.
All your life you've been my boy, and I love you same as my own blood; it won't go no farther
if you say so. I'll never tell a living soul. But I'm old and 'til better weather comes, house
bound; and I get mighty lonely. I'd like to think about you and her, and plan for you, and
love her as I always did you folks. Who is she, David? Do I know the family?"

"No. She is a stranger to these parts," said the unhappy Harvester.

"David, is she a nice girl 'at your ma would have liked?"

"She's the only girl in the world that I'd marry," said the Harvester promptly, glad of a question
he could answer heartily. "Yes. She is gentle, very tender and----and affectionate," he went
on so rapidly that Granny Moreland could not say a word, "and as soon as I bring her home you
shall come to spend a day and get acquainted. I know you will love her! I'll come in the morning,
then. I must hurry now. I am working double this spring and I'm off for the skunk cabbage bed
to-day."

"You are working fit to kill, the neighbours say. Slavin' like a horse all day, and half the
night I see your lights burning."

"Do I appear killed?" laughingly inquired the Harvester.

"You look peart as a struttin' turkey gobbler," said the old woman. "Go on with your work!
Work don't hurt a-body. Eat a-plenty, sleep all you ort, and you CAN'T work enough to hurt you."

"So the neighbours say I'm working now? New story, isn't it? Usually I'm too lazy to make a
living, if I remember."

"Only to those who don't sense your purceedings, David. I always knowed how you grubbed and
slaved an' set over them fearful books o' yours."

"More interesting than the wildest fiction," said the man. "I'm making some medicine for your
rheumatism, Granny. It is not fully tested yet, but you get ready for it by cutting out all
the salt you can. I haven't time to explain this morning, but you remember what I say, leave
out the salt, and when Doc thinks it's safe I'll bring you something that will make a new woman
of you."

He went swinging down the road, and Granny Moreland looked after him.

"While he was talkin'," she muttered, "I felt full of information as a flock o' almanacs, but
now since he's gone, 'pears to me I don't know a thing more 'an I did to start on."

"Close call," the Harvester was thinking. "Why the nation did I admit anything to her? People
may talk as they please, so long as I don't sanction it, but I have two or three times. That's
a fool trick. Suppose I can't find her? Maybe she won't look at me if I can. Then I'd have
started something I couldn't finish. And if anybody thinks I'll end this by taking any girl
I can get, if I can't find Her, why they think wrongly. Just the girl of my golden dream or
no woman at all for me. I've lived alone long enough to know how to do it in comfort. If I
can't find and win her I have no intention of starting a boarding house."

The Harvester began to laugh. "'I'd rather keep bachelor's hall in Hell than go to board in
Heaven!'" he quoted gaily. "That's my sentiment too. If you can't have what you want, don't
have anything. But there is no use to become discouraged before I start. I haven't begun to
hunt her yet. Until I do, I might as well believe that she will walk across the bridge and
take possession just as soon as I get the last chair leg polished. She might! She came in the
dream, and to come actually couldn't be any more real. I'll make a stiff hunt of it before
I give up, if I ever do. I never yet have made a complete failure of anything. But just now
I am hunting skunk cabbage. It's precisely the time to take it."

Across the lake, in the swampy woods, close where the screech owl sang and the girl of the
golden dream walked in the moonlight the Harvester began operations. He unrolled the sack,
went to one end of the bed and systematically started a swath across it, lifting every other
plant by the roots. Flowering time was almost past, but the bees knew where pollen ripened,
and hummed incessantly over and inside the queer cone-shaped growths with their hooked beaks.
It almost appeared as if the sound made inside might be to give outsiders warning not to poach
on occupied territory, for the Harvester noticed that no bee entered a pre-empted plant.

With skilful hand each stroke brought up a root and he tossed it to one side. The plants were
vastly peculiar things. First they seemed to be a curled leaf with no flower. In colour they
shaded from yellow to almost black mahogany, and appeared as if they were a flower with no
leaf. Closer examination proved there was a stout leaf with a heavy outside mid-rib, the tip
of which curled over in a beak effect, that wrapped around a peculiar flower of very disagreeable
odour. The handling of these plants by the hundred so intensified this smell the Harvester
shook his head.

"I presume you are mostly mine," he said to the busy little workers around him. "If there is
anything in my theory of honey having varying medicinal properties at different seasons, right
now mine should be good for Granny's rheumatism and for nervous and dropsical people. I shouldn't
think honey flavoured with skunk cabbage would be fit to eat. But, of course, it isn't all
this. There is catkin pollen on the wind, hazel and sassafras are both in bloom now, and so
are several of the earliest little flowers of the woods. You can gather enough of them combined
to temper the disagreeable odour into a racy sweetness, and all the shrub blooms are good tonics,
too, and some of the earthy ones. I'm going to try giving some of you empty cases next spring
and analyzing the honey to learn if it isn't good medicine."

The Harvester straightened and leaned on the mattock to fill his lungs with fresh air and as
he delightedly sniffed it he commented, "Nothing else has much of a chance since I've stirred
up the cabbage bed. I can scent the catkins plainly, being so close, and as I came here I could
detect the hazel and sassafras all right."

Above him a peculiar, raucous chattering for an instant hushed other wood voices. The Harvester
looked up, laughing gaily.

"So you've decided to announce it to your tribe at last, have you?" he inquired. "You are waking
the sleepers in their dens to-day? Well, there's nothing like waiting until you have a sure
thing. The bluebirds broke the trail for the feathered folk the twenty-fourth of February.
The sap oozed from the maples about the same time for the trees. The very first skunk cabbage
was up quite a month ago to signal other plants to come on, and now you are rousing the furred
folk. I'll write this down in my records----'When the earliest bluebird sings, when the sap
wets the maples, when the skunk cabbage flowers, and the first striped squirrel barks, why
then, it is spring!'"

He bent to his task and as he worked closer the water he noticed sweet-flag leaves waving two
inches tall beneath the surface.

"Great day!" he cried. "There you are making signs, too! And right! Of course! Nature is always
right. Just two inches high and it's harvest for you. I can use a rake, and dried in the evaporator
you bring me ten cents a pound; to the folks needing a tonic you are worth a small fortune.
No doubt you cost that by the time you reach them; but I fear I can't gather you just now.
My head is a little preoccupied these days. What with the cabbage, and now you, and many of
the bushes and trees making signs, with a new cabin to build and furnish, with a girl to find
and win, I'm what you might call busy. I've covered my book shelf. I positively don't dare
look Emerson or Maeterlinck in the face. One consolation! I've got the best of Thoreau in my
head, and if I read Stickeen a few times more I'll be able to recite that. There's a man for
you, not to mention the dog! Bel, where are you? Would you stick to me like that? I think you
would. But you are a big, strong fellow. Stickeen was only such a mite of a dog. But what a
man he followed! I feel as if I should put on high-heeled slippers and carry a fan and a lace
handkerchief when I think of him. And yet, most men wouldn't consider my job so easy!"

The Harvester rapidly pitched the evil-smelling plants into big heaps and as he worked he imitated
the sounds around him as closely as he could. The song sparrow laughed at him and flew away
in disgust when he tried its notes. The jay took time to consider, but was not fooled. The
nut-hatch ran head first down trees, larvae hunting, and was never a mite deceived. But the
killdeer on invisible legs, circling the lake shore, replied instantly; so did the lark soaring
above, and the dove of the elm thicket close beside. The glittering black birds flashing over
every tree top answered the "T'check, t'chee!" of the Harvester quite as readily as their mates.

The last time he paused to rest he had studied scents. When he straightened again he was occupied
with every voice of earth and air around and above him, and the notes of singing hens, exultant
cocks, the scream of geese, the quack of ducks, the rasping crescendo of guineas running wild
in the woods, the imperial note of Ajax sunning on the ridge pole and echoes from all of them
on adjoining and distant farms.

"'Now I see the full meaning and beauty of that word sound!'" quoted the Harvester. "'I thank
God for sound. It always mounts and makes me mount!'"

He breathed deeply and stood listening, a superb figure of a man, his lean face glowing with
emotion.

"If she could see and hear this, she would come," he said softly. "She would come and she would
love it as I do. Any one who understands, and knows how to translate, cares for this above
all else earth has to offer. They who do not, fail to read as they run!"

He shifted feet mired in swamp muck, and stood as if loath to bend again to his task. He lifted
a weighted mattock and scraped the earth from it, sniffing it delightedly the while. A soft
south wind freighted with aromatic odours swept his warm face. The Harvester removed his hat
and shook his head that the breeze might thread his thick hair.

"I've a commission for you, South Wind," he said whimsically. "Go find my Dream Girl. Go carry
her this message from me. Freight your breath with spicy pollen, sun warmth, and flower nectar.
Fill all her senses with delight, and then, close to her ear, whisper it softly, 'Your lover
is coming!' Tell her that, O South Wind! Carry Araby to her nostrils, Heaven to her ears, and
then whisper and whisper it over and over until you arouse the passion of earth in her blood.
Tell her what is rioting in my heart, and brain, and soul this morning. Repeat it until she
must awake to its meaning, 'Your lover is coming.'"

CHAPTER V. WHEN THE HARVESTER MADE GOOD

The sassafras and skunk cabbage were harvested. The last workman was gone. There was not a
sound at Medicine Woods save the babel of bird and animal notes and the never-ending accompaniment
of Singing Water. The geese had gone over, some flocks pausing to rest and feed on Loon Lake,
and ducks that homed there were busy among the reeds and rushes. In the deep woods the struggle
to maintain and reproduce life was at its height, and the courting songs of gaily coloured
birds were drowned by hawk screams and crow calls of defiance.

Every night before he plunged into the lake and went to sleep the Harvester made out a list
of the most pressing work that he would undertake on the coming day. By systematizing and planning
ahead he was able to accomplish an unbelievable amount. The earliest rush of spring drug gathering
was over. He could be more deliberate in collecting the barks he wanted. Flowers that were
to be gathered at bloom time and leaves were not yet ready. The heavy leaf coverings he had
helped the winds to heap on his beds of lily of the valley, bloodroot, and sarsaparilla were
removed carefully.

Inside the cabin the Harvester cleaned the glass, swept the floors with a soft cloth pinned
over the broom, and hung pale yellow blinds at the windows. Every spare minute he worked on
making furniture, and with each piece he grew in experience and ventured on more difficult
undertakings. He had progressed so far that he now allowed himself an hour each day on the
candlesticks for her. Every evening he opened her door and with soft cloths polished the furniture
he had made. When her room was completed and the dining-room partially finished, the Harvester
took time to stain the cabin and porch roofs the shade of the willow leaves, and on the logs
and pillars he used oil that served to intensify the light yellow of the natural wood. With
that much accomplished he felt better. If she came now, in a few hours he would be able to
offer a comfortable room, enough conveniences to live until more could be provided, and of
food there was always plenty.

His daily programme was to feed and water his animals and poultry, prepare breakfast for himself
and Belshazzar, and go to the woods, dry-house or store-room to do the work most needful in
his harvesting. In the afternoon he laboured over furniture and put finishing touches on the
new cabin, and after supper he carved and found time to read again, as before his dream.

He was so happy he whistled and sang at his work much of the time at first, but later there
came days when doubts crept in and all his will power was required to proceed steadily. As
the cabin grew in better shape for occupancy each day, more pressing became the thought of
how he was going to find and meet the girl of his dream. Sometimes it seemed to him that the
proper way was to remain at home and go on with his work, trusting her to come to him. At such
times he was happy and gaily whistled and sang:

     "Stay in your chimney corner,
          Don't roam the world about,
       Stay in your chimney corner,
          And your own true love will find you out."

But there were other days while grubbing in the forest, battling with roots in the muck and
mire of the lake bank, staggering under a load for two men, scarcely taking time to eat and
sleep enough to keep his condition perfect, when that plan seemed too hopeless and senseless
to contemplate. Then he would think of locking the cabin, leaving the drugs to grow undisturbed
by collecting, hiring a neighbour to care for his living creatures, and starting a search over
the world to find her. There came times when the impulse to go was so strong that only the
desire to take a day more to decide where, kept him. Every time his mind was made up to start
the following day came the counter thought, what if I should go and she should come in my absence?
In the dream she came. That alone held him, even in the face of the fact that if he left home
some one might know of and rifle the precious ginseng bed, carefully tended these seven years
for the culmination the coming fall would bring. That ginseng was worth many thousands and
he had laboured over it, fighting worms and parasites, covering and uncovering it with the
changing seasons, a siege of loving labour.

Sometimes a few hours of misgiving tortured him, but as a rule he was cheerful and happy in
his preparations. Without intending to do it he was gradually furnishing the cabin. Every few
days saw a new piece finished in the workshop. Each trip to Onabasha ended in the purchase
of some article he could see would harmonize with his colour plans for one of the rooms. He
had filled the flower boxes for the veranda with delicate plants that were growing luxuriantly.

Then he designed and began setting a wild-flower garden outside her door and started climbing
vines over the logs and porches, but whatever he planted he found in the woods or took from
beds he cultivated. Many of the medicinal vines had leaves, flowers, twining tendrils, and
berries or fruits of wonderful beauty. Every trip to the forest he brought back a half dozen
vines, plants, or bushes to set for her. All of them either bore lovely flowers, berries, quaint
seed pods, or nuts, and beside the drive and before the cabin he used especial care to plant
a hedge of bittersweet vines, burning bush, and trees of mountain ash, so that the glory of
their colour would enliven the winter when days might be gloomy.

He planted wild yam under her windows that its queer rattles might amuse her, and hop trees
where their castanets would play gay music with every passing wind of fall. He started a thicket
along the opposite bank of Singing Water where it bubbled past her window, and in it he placed
in graduated rows every shrub and small tree bearing bright flower, berry, or fruit. Those
remaining he used as a border for the driveway from the lake, so that from earliest spring
her eyes would fall on a procession of colour beginning with catkins and papaw lilies, and
running through alders, haws, wild crabs, dogwood, plums, and cherry intermingled with forest
saplings and vines bearing scarlet berries in fall and winter. In the damp soil of the same
character from which they were removed, in the shade and under the skilful hand of the Harvester,
few of these knew they had been transplanted, and when May brought the catbirds and orioles
much of this growth was flowering quite as luxuriantly as the same species in the woods.

The Harvester was in the store-house packing boxes for shipment. His room was so small and
orders so numerous that he could not keep large quantities on hand. All crude stuff that he
sent straight from the drying-house was fresh and brightly coloured. His stock always was marked
prime A-No. 1. There was a step behind him and the Harvester turned. A boy held out a telegram.
The man opened it to find an order for some stuff to be shipped that day to a large laboratory
in Toledo.

His hands deftly tied packages and he hastily packed bottles and nailed boxes. Then he ran
to harness Betsy and load. As he drove down the hill to the bridge he looked at his watch and
shook his head.

"What are you good for at a pinch, Betsy?" he asked as he flecked the surprised mare's flank
with a switch. Belshazzar cocked his ears and gazed at the Harvester in astonishment.

"That wasn't enough to hurt her," explained the man. "She must speed up. This is important
business. The amount involved is not so much, but I do love to make good. It's a part of my
religion, Bel. And my religion has so precious few parts that if I fail in the observance of
any of them it makes a big hole in my performances. Now we don't want to end a life full of
holes, so we must get there with this stuff, not because it's worth the exertion in dollars
and cents, but because these men patronize us steadily and expect us to fill orders, even by
telegraph. Hustle, Betsy!"

The whip fell again and Belshazzar entered indignant protest.

"It isn't going to hurt her," said the Harvester impatiently. "She may walk all the way back.
She can rest while I get these boxes billed and loaded if she can be persuaded to get them
to the express office on time. The trouble with Betsy is that she wants to meander along the
road with a loaded wagon as her mother and grandmother before her wandered through the woods
wearing a bell to attract the deer. Father used to say that her mother was the smartest bell
mare that ever entered the forest. She'd not only find the deer, but she'd make friends with
them and lead them straight as a bee-line to where he was hiding. Betsy, you must travel!"

The Harvester drew the lines taut, and the whip fell smartly. The astonished Betsy snorted
and pranced down the valley as fast as she could, but every step indicated that she felt outraged
and abused. This was the loveliest day of the season. The sun was shining, the air was heavy
with the perfume of flowering shrubs and trees, the orchards of the valley were white with
bloom. Farmers were hurrying back and forth across fields, leaving up turned lines of black,
swampy mould behind them, and one progressive individual rode a wheeled plow, drove three horses
and enjoyed the shelter of a canopy.

"Saints preserve us, Belshazzar!" cried the Harvester. "Do you see that? He is one of the men
who makes a business of calling me shiftless. Now he thinks he is working. Working! For a full-grown
man, did you ever see the equal? If I were going that far I'd wear a tucked shirt, panama hat,
have a pianola attachment, and an automatic fan."

The Harvester laughed as he again touched Betsy and hurried to Onabasha. He scarcely saw the
delights offered on either hand, and where his eyes customarily took in every sight, and his
ears were tuned for the faintest note of earth or tree top, to day he saw only Betsy and listened
for a whistle he dreaded to hear at the water tank. He climbed the embankment of the railway
at a slower pace, but made up time going down hill to the city.

"I am not getting a blame thing out of this," he complained to Belshazzar. "There are riches
to stagger any scientist wasting to-day, and all I've got to show is one oriole. I did hear
his first note and see his flash, and so unless we can take time to make up for this on the
home road we will have to christen it oriole day. It's a perfumed golden day, too; I can get
that in passing, but how I loathe hurrying. I don't mind planning things and working steadily,
but it's not consistent with the dignity of a sane man to go rushing across country with as
much appreciation of the delights offered right now as a chicken with its head off would have.
We will loaf going back to pay for this! And won't we invite our souls? We will stop and gather
a big bouquet of crab apple blossoms to fill the green pitcher for her. Maybe some of their
wonderful perfume will linger in her room. When the petals fall we will scatter them in the
drawers of her dresser, and they may distil a faint flower odour there. We could do that to
all her furniture, but perhaps she doesn't like perfume. She'll be compelled to after she reaches
Medicine Woods. Betsy, you must travel faster!"

The whip fell again and the Harvester stopped at the depot with a few minutes to spare. He
threw the hitching strap to Belshazzar, and ran into the express office with an arm load of boxes.

"Bill them!" he cried. "It's a rush order. I want it to go on the next express. Almost due
I think. I'll help you and we can book them afterward."

The expressman ran for a truck and they hastily weighed and piled on boxes. When the last one
was loaded from the wagon, a heap more lying in the office were added, pitched on indiscriminately
as the train pulled under the sheds of the Union Station.

"I'll push," cried the Harvester, "and help you get them on."

Hurrying as fast as he could the expressman drew the heavy truck through the iron gates and
started toward the train slowing to a stop, and the Harvester pushed. As they came down the
platform they passed the dining and sleeping cars of the long train and were several times
delayed by descending passengers. Just opposite the day coach the expressman narrowly missed
running into several women leading small children and stopped abruptly. A toppling box threatened
the head of the Harvester. He peered around the truck and saw they must wait a few seconds.
He put in the time watching the people. A gray-haired old man, travelling in a silk hat, wavered
on the top step and went his way. A fat woman loaded with bundles puffed as she clung trembling
a second in fear she would miss the step she could not see. A tall, slender girl with a face
coldly white came next, and from the broken shoe she advanced, the bewildered fright of big,
dark eyes glancing helplessly, the Harvester saw that she was poor, alone, ill, and in trouble.
Pityingly he turned to watch her, and as he gauged her height, saw her figure, and a dark coronet
of hair came into view, a ghastly pallor swept his face.

"Merciful God!" he breathed, "that's my Dream Girl!"

The truck started with a jerk. The toppling box fell, struck a passing boy, and knocked him
down. The mother screamed and the Harvester sprang to pick up the child and see that he was
not dangerously hurt. Then he ran after the truck, pitched on the box, and whirling, sped beside
the train toward the gates of exit. There was the usual crush, but he could see the tall figure
passing up the steps to the depot. He tried to force his way and was called a brute by a crowded
woman. He ran down the platform to the gates he had entered with the truck. They were automatic
and had locked. Then he became a primal creature being cheated of a lawful mate and climbed
the high iron fence and ran for the waiting room.

He swept it at a glance, not forgetting the women's apartment and the side entrance. Then he
hurried to the front exit. Up the street leading from the city there were few people and he
could see no sign of the slight, white-faced girl. He crossed the sidewalk and ran down the
gutter for a block and breathlessly waited the passing crowd on the corner. She was not among
it. He tried one more square. Still he could not see her. Then he ran back to the depot. He
thought surely he must have missed her. He again searched the woman's and general waiting room
and then he thought of the conductor. From him it could be learned where she entered the car.
He ran for the station, bolted the gate while the official called to him, and reached the track
in time to see the train pull out within a few yards of him.

"You blooming idiot!" cried the angry expressman as the Harvester ran against him, "where did
you go? Why didn't you help me? You are white as a sheet! Have you lost your senses?"

"Worse!" groaned the Harvester. "Worse! I've lost what I prize most on earth. How could I reach
the conductor of that train?"

"Telegraph him at the next station. You can have an answer in a half hour."

The Harvester ran to the office, and with shaking hand wrote this message:

"Where did a tall girl with big black eyes and wearing a gray dress take your train? Important."

Then he went out and minutely searched the depot and streets. He hired an automobile to drive
him over the business part of Onabasha for three quarters of an hour. Up one street and down
another he went slowly where there were crowds, faster as he could, but never a sight of her.
Then he returned to the depot and found his message. It read, "Transferred to me at Fort Wayne
from Chicago."

"Chicago baggage!" he cried, and hurried to the check room. He had lost almost an hour. When
he reached the room he found the officials busy and unwilling to be interrupted. Finally he
learned there had been a half dozen trunks from Chicago. All were taken save two, and one glance
at them told the Harvester that they did not belong to the girl in gray. The others had been
claimed by men having checks for them. If she had been there, the officials had not noticed
a tall girl having a white face and dark eyes. When he could think of no further effort to
make he drove to the hospital.

Doctor Carey was not in his office, and the Harvester sat in the revolving chair before the
desk and gripped his head between his hands as he tried to think. He could not remember anything
more he could have done, but since what he had done only ended in failure, he was reproaching
himself wildly that he had taken his eyes from the Girl an instant after recognizing her. Yet
it was in his blood to be decent and he could not have run away and left a frightened woman
and a hurt child. Trusting to his fleet feet and strength he had taken time to replace the
box also, and then had met the crowd and delay. Just for the instant it appeared to him as
if he had done all a man could, and he had not found her. If he allowed her to return to Chicago,
probably he never would. He leaned his head on his hands and groaned in discouragement.

Doctor Carey whirled the chair so that it faced him before the Harvester realized that he was
not alone.

"What's the trouble, David?" he asked tersely.

The Harvester lifted a strained face.

"I came for help," he said.

"Well you will get it! All you have to do is to state what you want."

That seemed simplicity itself to the doctor. But when it came to putting his case into words,
it was not easy for the Harvester.

"Go on!" said the doctor.

"You'll think me a fool."

The doctor laughed heartily.

"No doubt!" he said soothingly. "No doubt, David! Probably you are; so why shouldn't I think
so. But remember this, when we make the biggest fools of ourselves that is precisely the time
when we need friends, and when they stick to us the tightest, if they are worth while. I've
been waiting since latter February for you to tell me. We can fix it, of course; there's always
a way. Go on!"

"Well I wasn't fooling about the dream and the vision I told you of then, Doc. I did have a
dream--and it was a dream of love. I did see a vision--and it was a beautiful woman."

"I hope you are not nursing that experience as something exclusive and peculiar to you," said
the doctor. "There is not a normal, sane man living who has not dreamed of love and the most
exquisite woman who came from the clouds or anywhere and was gracious to him. That's a part
of a man's experience in this world, and it happens to most of us, not once, but repeatedly.
It's a case where the wish fathers the dream."

"Well it hasn't happened to me 'on repeated occasions,' but it did one night, and by dawn I
was converted. How CAN a dream be so real, Doc? How could I see as clearly as I ever saw in
the daytime in my most alert moment, hear every step and garment rustle, scent the perfume
of hair, and feel warm breath strike my face? I don't understand it!"

"Neither does any one else! All you need say is that your dream was real as life. Go on!"

"I built a new cabin and pretty well overturned the place and I've been making furniture I
thought a woman would like, and carrying things from town ever since."

"Gee! It was reality to you, lad!"

"Nothing ever more so," said the Harvester.

"And of course, you have been looking for her?"

"And this morning I saw her!"

"David!"

"Not the ghost of a chance for a mistake. Her height, her eyes, her hair, her walk, her face;
only something terrible has happened since she came to me. It was the same girl, but she is
ill and in trouble now."

"Where is she?"

"Do you suppose I'd be here if I knew?"

"David, are you dreaming in daytime?"

"She got off the Chicago train this morning while I was helping Daniels load a big truck of
express matter. Some of it was mine, and it was important. Just at the wrong instant a box
fell and knocked down a child and I got in a jam----"

"And as it was you, of course you stopped to pick up the child and do everything decent for
other folks, before you thought of yourself, and so you lost her. You needn't tell me anything
more. David, if I find her, and prove to you that she has been married ten years and has an
interesting family, will you thank me?"

"Can't be done!" said the Harvester calmly. "She has been married only since she gave herself
to me in February, and she is not a mother. You needn't bank on that."

"You are mighty sure!"

"Why not? I told you the dream was real, and now that I have seen her, and she is in this very
town, why shouldn't I be sure?"

"What have you done?"

The Harvester told him.

"What are you going to do next?"

"Talk it over with you and decide."

The doctor laughed.

"Well here are a few things that occur to me without time for thought. Talk to the ticket agents,
and leave her description with them. Make it worth their while to be on the lookout, and if
she goes anywhere to find out all they can. They could make an excuse of putting her address
on her ticket envelope, and get it that way. See the baggagemen. Post the day police on Main
Street. There is no chance for her to escape you. A full-grown woman doesn't vanish. How did
she act when she got off the car? Did she appear familiar?"

"No. She was a stranger. For an instant she looked around as if she expected some one, then
she followed the crowd. There must have been an automobile waiting or she took a street car.
Something whirled her out of sight in a few seconds."

"Well we will get her in range again. Now for the most minute description you can give."

The Harvester hesitated. He did not care to describe the Dream Girl to any one, much less the
living, suffering face and poorly clad form of the reality.

"Cut out your scruples," laughed the doctor. "You have asked me to help you; how can I if I
don't know what kind of a woman to look for?"

"Very tall and slender," said the Harvester. "Almost as tall as I am."

"Unusually tall you think?"

"I know!"

"That's a good point for identification. How about her complexion, hair, and eyes?"

"Very large, dark eyes, and a great mass of black hair."

The doctor roared.

"The eyes may help," he said. "All women have masses of hair these days. I hope----"

"Her hair is fast to her head," said the Harvester indignantly. "I saw it at close range, and
I know. It went around like a crown."

The doctor choked down a laugh. He wanted to say that every woman's hair was like a crown at
present, but there were things no man ventured with David Langston; those who knew him best,
least of any. So he suggested, "And her colouring?"

"She was white and rosy, a lovely thing in the dream," said the Harvester, "but something dreadful
has happened. That's all wiped out now. She was very pale when she left the car."

"Car sick, maybe."

"Soul sick!" was the grim reply.

Then Doctor Carey appeared so disturbed the Harvester noticed it.

"You needn't think I'd be here prating about her if I wasn't FORCED. If she had been rosy and
well as she was in the dream, I'd have made my hunt alone and found her, too. But when I saw
she was sick and in trouble, it took all the courage out of me, and I broke for help. She must
be found at once, and when she is you are probably the first man I'll want. I am going to put
up a pretty stiff search myself, and if I find her I'll send or get her to you if I can. Put
her in the best ward you have and anything money will do----"

The face of the doctor was growing troubled.

"Day coach or Pullman?" he asked.

"Day."

"How was she dressed?"

"Small black hat, very plain. Gray jacket and skirt, neat as a flower."

"What you'd call expensively dressed?"

The Harvester hesitated.

"What I'd call carefully dressed, but----but poverty poor, if you will have it, Doc."

Doctor Carey's lips closed and then opened in sudden resolution.

"David, I don't like it," he said tersely.

The Harvester met his eye and purposely misunderstood him.

"Neither do I!" he exclaimed. "I hate it! There is something wrong with the whole world when
a woman having a face full of purity, intellect, and refinement of extreme type glances around
her like a hunted thing; when her appearance seems to indicate that she has starved her body
to clothe it. I know what is in your mind, Doc, but if I were you I wouldn't put it into words,
and I wouldn't even THINK it. Has it been your experience in this world that women not fit
to know skimp their bodies to cover them? Does a girl of light character and little brain have
the hardihood to advance a foot covered with a broken shoe? If I could tell you that she rode
in a Pullman, and wore exquisite clothing, you would be doing something. The other side of
the picture shuts you up like a clam, and makes you appear shocked. Let me tell you this: No
other woman I ever saw anywhere on God's footstool had a face of more delicate refinement,
eyes of purer intelligence. I am of the woods, and while they don't teach me how to shine in
society, they do instil always and forever the fineness of nature and her ways. I have her
lessons so well learned they help me more than anything else to discern the qualities of human
nature. If you are my friend, and have any faith at all in my common sense, get up and do something!"

The doctor arose promptly.

"David, I'm an ass," he said. "Unusually lop-eared, and blind in the bargain. But before I
ask you to forgive me, I want you to remember two things: First, she did not visit me in my
dreams; and, second, I did not see her in reality. I had nothing to judge from except what
you said: you seemed reluctant to tell me, and what you did say was----was----disturbing to
a friend of yours. I have not the slightest doubt if I had seen her I would agree with you.
We seldom disagree, David. Now, will you forgive me?"

The Harvester suddenly faced a window. When at last he turned, "The offence lies with me,"
he said, "I was hasty. Are you going to help me?"

"With all my heart! Go home and work until your head clears, then come back in the morning.
She did not come from Chicago for a day. You've done all I know to do at present."

"Thank you," said the Harvester.

He went to Betsy and Belshazzar, and slowly drove up and down the streets until Betsy protested
and calmly turned homeward. The Harvester smiled ruefully as he allowed her to proceed.

"Go slow and take it easy," he said as they reached the country. "I want to think."

Betsy stopped at the barn, the white doves took wing, and Ajax screamed shrilly before the
Harvester aroused in the slightest to anything around him. Then he looked at Belshazzar and
said emphatically: "Now, partner, don't ever again interfere when I am complying with the observances
of my religion. Just look what I'd have missed if I hadn't made good with that order!"

CHAPTER VI. TO LABOUR AND TO WAIT

"We have reached the 'beginning of the end,' Ajax!" said the Harvester, as the peacock ceased
screaming and came to seek food from his hand. "We have seen the Girl. Now we must locate her
and convince her that Medicine Woods is her happy home. I feel quite equal to the latter proposition,
Ajax, but how the nation to find her sticks me. I can't make a search so open that she will
know and resent it. She must have all the consideration ever paid the most refined woman, but
she also has got to be found, and that speedily. When I remember that look on her face, as
if horrors were snatching at her skirts, it takes all the grit out of me. I feel weak as a
sapling. And she needs all my strength. I've simply got to brace up. I'll work a while and
then perhaps I can think."

So the Harvester began the evening routine. He thought he did not want anything to eat, but
when he opened the cupboard and smelled the food he learned that he was a hungry man and he
cooked and ate a good supper. He put away everything carefully, for even the kitchen was dainty
and fresh and he wanted to keep it so for her. When he finished he went into the living-room,
stood before the fireplace, and studied the collection of half-finished candlesticks grouped
upon it. He picked up several and examined them closely, but realized that he could not bind
himself to the exactions of carving that evening. He took a key from his pocket and unlocked
her door. Every day he had been going there to improve upon his work for her, and he loved
the room, the outlook from its windows; he was very proud of the furniture he had made. There
was no paper-thin covering on her chairs, bed, and dressing table. The tops, seats, and posts
were solid wood, worth hundreds of dollars for veneer.

To-night he folded his arms and stood on the sill hesitating. While she was a dream, he had
loved to linger in her room. Now that she was reality, he paused. In one golden May day the
place had become sacred. Since he had seen the Girl that room was so hers that he was hesitating
about entering because of this fact. It was as if the tall, slender form stood before the chest
of drawers or sat at the dressing table and he did not dare enter unless he were welcome. Softly
he closed the door and went away. He wandered to the dry-house and turned the bark and roots
on the trays, but the air stifled him and he hurried out. He tried to work in the packing room,
but walls smothered him and again he sought the open.

He espied a bundle of osier-bound, moss-covered ferns that he had found in the woods, and brought
the shovel to transplant them; but the work worried him, and he hurried through with it. Then
he looked for something else to do and saw an ax. He caught it up and with lusty strokes began
swinging it. When he had chopped wood until he was very tired he went to bed. Sleep came to
the strong, young frame and he awoke in the morning refreshed and hopeful.

He wondered why he had bothered Doctor Carey. The Harvester felt able that morning to find
his Dream Girl without assistance before the day was over. It was merely a matter of going
to the city and locating a woman. Yesterday, it had been a question of whether she really existed.
To-day, he knew. Yesterday, it had meant a search possibly as wide as earth to find her. To-day,
it was narrowed to only one location so small, compared with Chicago, that the Harvester felt
he could sift its population with his fingers, and pick her from others at his first attempt.
If she were visiting there probably she would rest during the night, and be on the streets to-day.

When he remembered her face he doubted it. He decided to spend part of the time on the business
streets and the remainder in the residence portions of the city. Because it was uncertain when
he would return, everything was fed a double portion, and Betsy was left at a livery stable
with instructions to care for her until he came. He did not know where the search would lead
him. For several hours he slowly walked the business district and then ranged farther, but
not a sight of her. He never had known that Onabasha was so large. On its crowded streets he
did not feel that he could sift the population through his fingers, nor could he open doors
and search houses without an excuse.

Some small boys passed him eating bananas, and the Harvester looked at his watch and was amazed
to find that the day had advanced until two o'clock in the afternoon. He was tired and hungry.
He went into a restaurant and ordered lunch; as he waited a girl serving tables smiled at him.
Any other time the Harvester would have returned at least a pleasant look, and gone his way.
To-day he scowled at her, and ate in hurried discomfort. On the streets again, he had no idea
where to go and so he went to the hospital.

"I expected you early this morning," was the greeting of Doctor Carey. "Where have you been
and what have you done?"

"Nothing," said the Harvester. "I was so sure she would be on the streets I just watched, but
I didn't see her."

"We will go to the depot," said the doctor. "The first thing is to keep her from leaving town."

They arranged with the ticket agents, expressmen, telegraphers, and, as they left, the Harvester
stopped and tipped the train caller, offering further reward worth while if he would find the Girl.

"Now we will go to the police station," said the doctor.

"I'll see the chief and have him issue a general order to his men to watch for her, but if
I were you I'd select a half dozen in the down town district, and give them a little tip with
a big promise!"

"Good Lord! How I hate this," groaned the Harvester.

"Want to find her by yourself?" questioned his friend.

"Yes," said the Harvester, "I do! And I would, if it hadn't been for her ghastly face. That
drives me to resort to any measures. The probabilities are that she is lying sick somewhere,
and if her comfort depends on the purse that dressed her, she will suffer. Doc, do you know
how awful this is?"

"I know that you've got a great imagination. If the woods make all men as sensitive as you
are, those who have business to transact should stay out of them. Take a common-sense view.
Look at this as I do. If she was strong enough to travel in a day coach from Chicago; she can't
be so very ill to-day. Leaving life by the inch isn't that easy. She will be alive this time
next year, whether you find her or not. The chances are that her stress was mental anyway,
and trouble almost never overcomes any one."

"You, a doctor and say that!"

"Oh, I mean instantaneously----in a day! Of course if it grinds away for years! But youth doesn't
allow it to do that. It throws it off, and grows hopeful and happy again. She won't die; put
that out of your mind. If I were you I would go home now and go straight on with my work, trusting
to the machinery you have set in motion. I know most of the men with whom we have talked. They
will locate her in a week or less. It's their business. It isn't yours. It's your job to be
ready for her, and have enough ahead to support her when they find her. Try to realize that
there are now a dozen men on hunt for her, and trust them. Go back to your work, and I will
come full speed in the motor when the first man sights her. That ought to satisfy you. I've
told all of them to call me at the hospital, and I will tell my assistant what to do in case
a call comes while I am away. Straighten your face! Go back to Medicine Woods and harvest your
crops, and before you know it she will be located. Then you can put on your Sunday clothes
and show yourself, and see if you can make her take notice."

"Idiot!" exclaimed the Harvester, but he started home. When he arrived he attended to his work
and then sat down to think.

"Doc is right," was his ultimate conclusion. "She can't leave the city, she can't move around
in it, she can't go anywhere, without being seen. There's one more point: I must tell Carey
to post all the doctors to report if they have such a call. That's all I can think of. I'll
go to-night, and then I'll look over the ginseng for parasites, and to-morrow I'll dive into
the late spring growth and work until I haven't time to think. I've let cranesbill get a week
past me now, and it can't be dispensed with."

So the following morning, when the Harvester had completed his work at the cabin and barn and
breakfasted, he took a mattock and a big hempen bag, and followed the path to the top of the
hill. As it ran along the lake bank he descended on the other side to several acres of cleared
land, where he raised corn for his stock, potatoes, and coarser garden truck, for which there
was not space in the smaller enclosure close the cabin. Around the edges of these fields, and
where one of them sloped toward the lake, he began grubbing a variety of grass having tall
stems already over a foot in height at half growth. From each stem waved four or five leaves
of six or eight inches length and the top showed forming clusters of tiny spikelets.

"I am none too early for you," he muttered to himself as he ran the mattock through the rich
earth, lifting the long, tough, jointed root stalks of pale yellow, from every section of which
broke sprays of fine rootlets. "None too early for you, and as you are worth only seven cents
a pound, you couldn't be considered a 'get-rich-quick' expedient, so I'll only stop long enough
with you to gather what I think my customers will order, and amass a fortune a little later
picking mullein flowers at seventy-five cents a pound. What a crop I've got coming!"

The Harvester glanced ahead, where in the cleared soil of the bank grew large plants with leaves
like yellow-green felt and tall bloom stems rising. Close them flourished other species requiring
dry sandy soil, that gradually changed as it approached the water until it became covered with
rank abundance of short, wiry grass, half the blades of which appeared red. Numerous everywhere
he could see the grayish-white leaves of Parnassus grass. As the season advanced it would lift
heart-shaped velvet higher, and before fall the stretch of emerald would be starred with white-faced,
green-striped flowers.

"Not a prettier sight on earth," commented the Harvester, "than just swale wire grass in September
making a fine, thick background to set off those delicate starry flowers on their slender stems.
I must remember to bring her to see that."

His eyes followed the growth to the water. As the grass drew closer moisture it changed to
the rank, sweet, swamp variety, then came bulrushes, cat-tails, water smartweed, docks, and
in the water blue flag lifted folded buds; at its feet arose yellow lily leaves and farther
out spread the white. As the light struck the surface the Harvester imagined he could see the
little green buds several inches below. Above all arose wild rice he had planted for the birds.
The red wings swayed on the willows and tilted on every stem that would bear their weight,
singing their melodious half-chanted notes, "O-ka-lee!"

Beneath them the ducks gobbled, splashed, and chattered; grebe and coot voices could be distinguished;
king rails at times flashed into sight and out again; marsh wrens scolded and chattered; occasionally
a kingfisher darted around the lake shore, rolling his rattling cry and flashing his azure
coat and gleaming white collar. On a hollow tree in the woods a yellow hammer proved why he
was named, because he carpentered industriously to enlarge the entrance to the home he was
excavating in a dead tree; and sailing over the lake and above the woods in grace scarcely
surpassed by any, a lonesome turkey buzzard awaited his mate's decision as to which hollow
log was most suitable for their home.

The Harvester stuffed the grass roots in the bag until it would hold no more and stood erect
to wipe his face, for the sun was growing warm. As he drew his handkerchief across his brow,
the south wind struck him with enough intensity to attract attention. Instantly the Harvester
removed his hat, rolled it up, and put it into his pocket. He stood an instant delighting in
the wind and then spoke.

"Allow me to express my most fervent thanks for your kindness," he said. "I thought probably
you would take that message, since it couldn't mean much to you, and it meant all the world
to me. I thought you would carry it, but, I confess, I scarcely expected the answer so soon.
The only thing that could make me more grateful to you would be to know exactly where she is:
but you must understand that it's like a peep into Heaven to have her existence narrowed to
one place. I'm bound to be able to say inside a few days, she lives at number----I don't know
yet, on street----I'll find out soon, in the closest city, Onabasha. And I know why you brought
her, South Wind. If ever a girl's cheeks need fanning with your breezes, and painting with
sun kisses, I wouldn't mind, since this is strictly private, adding a few of mine; if ever
any one needed flowers, birds, fresh air, water, and rest! Good Lord, South Wind, did you ever
reach her before you carried that message? I think not! But Onabasha isn't so large. You and
the sun should get your innings there. I do hope she is not trying to work! I can attend to
that; and so there will be more time when she is found, I'd better hustle now."

He picked up the bag and returned to the dry-house, where he carefully washed the roots and
spread them on the trays. Then he took the same bag and mattock and going through the woods
in the opposite direction he came to a heavy growth in a cleared space of high ground. The
bloom heads were forming and the plant was half matured. The Harvester dug a cylindrical, tapering
root, wrinkling lengthwise, wiped it clean, broke and tasted it. He made a wry face. He stood
examining the white wood with its brown-red bark and, deciding that it was in prime condition,
he began digging the plants. It was common wayside "Bouncing Bet," but the Harvester called
it "soapwort." He took every other plant in his way across the bed, and when he digged a heavy
load he carried it home, stripped the leaves, and spread them on trays, while the roots he
topped, washed, and put to dry also. Then he whistled for Belshazzar and went to lunch.

As he passed down the road to the cabin his face was a study of conflicting emotions, and his
eyes had a far away appearance of deep thought. Every tree of his stretch of forest was rustling
fresh leaves to shelter him; dogwood, wild crab, and hawthorn offered their flowers; earth
held up her tribute in painted trillium faces, spring beauties, and violets, blue, white, and
yellow. Mosses, ferns, and lichen decorated the path; all the birds greeted him in friendship,
and sang their purest melodies. The sky was blue, the sun bright, the air perfumed for him;
Belshazzar, always true to his name, protected every footstep; Ajax, the shimmering green and
gold wonder, came up the hill to meet him; the white doves circled above his head. Stumbling
half blindly, the Harvester passed unheeding among them, and went into the cabin. When he came
out he stood a long time in deep study, but at last he returned to the woods.

"Perhaps they will have found her before night," he said. "I'll harvest the cranesbill yet,
because it's growing late for it, and then I'll see how they are coming on. Maybe they'd know
her if they met her, and maybe they wouldn't. She may wear different clothing, and freshen
up after her trip. She might have been car sick, as Doc suggested, and appear very different
when she feels better."

He skirted the woods around the northeast end and stopped at a big bed of exquisite growth.
Tall, wiry stems sprang upward almost two feet in height; leaves six inches across were cut
in ragged lobes almost to the base, and here and there, enough to colour the entire bed a delicate
rose or sometimes a violet purple, the first flowers were unfolding. The Harvester lifted a
root and tasted it.

"No doubt about you being astringent," he muttered. "You have enough tannin in you to pucker
a mushroom. By the way, those big, corn-cobby fellows should spring up with the next warm rain,
and the hotels and restaurants always pay high prices. I must gather a few bushels."

He looked over the bed of beautiful wild alum and hesitated.

"I vow I hate to touch you," he said. "You are a picture right now, and in a week you will
be a miracle. It seems a shame to tear up a plant for its roots, just at flowering time, and
I can't avoid breaking down half I don't take, getting the ones I do. I wish you were not so
pretty! You are one of the colours I love most. You remind me of red-bud, blazing star, and
all those exquisite magenta shades that poets, painters, and the Almighty who made them love
so much they hesitate about using them lavishly. You are so delicate and graceful and so modest.
I wish she could see you! I got to stop this or I won't be able to lift a root. I never would
if the ten cents a pound I'll get out of it were the only consideration."

The Harvester gripped the mattock and advanced to the bed. "What I must be thinking is that
you are indispensable to the sick folks. The steady demand for you proves your value, and of
course, humanity comes first, after all. If I remain in the woods alone much longer I'll get
to the place where I'm not so sure that it does. Seems as if animals, birds, flowers, trees,
and insects as well, have their right to life also. But it's for me to remember the sick folks!
If I thought the Girl would get some of it now, I could overturn the bed with a stout heart.
If any one ever needed a tonic, I think she does. Maybe some of this will reach her. If it
does, I hope it will make her cheeks just the lovely pink of the bloom. Oh Lord! If only she
hadn't appeared so sick and frightened! What is there in all this world of sunshine to make
a girl glance around her like that? I wish I knew! Maybe they will have found her by night."

The Harvester began work on the bed, but he knelt and among the damp leaves from the spongy
black earth he lifted the roots with his fingers and carefully straightened and pressed down
the plants he did not take. This required more time than usual, but his heart was so sore he
could not be rough with anything, most of all a flower. So he harvested the wild alum by hand,
and heaped large stacks of roots around the edges of the bed. Often he paused as he worked
and on his knees stared through the forest as if he hoped perhaps she would realize his longing
for her, and come to him in the wood as she had across the water. Over and over he repeated,
"Perhaps they will find her by night!" and that so intensified the meaning that once he said
it aloud. His face clouded and grew dark.

"Dealish nice business!" he said. "I am here in the woods digging flower roots, and a gang
of men in the city are searching for the girl I love. If ever a job seemed peculiarly a man's
own, it appears this would be. What business has any other man spying after my woman? Why am
I not down there doing my own work, as I always have done it? Who's more likely to find her
than I am? It seems as if there would be an instinct that would lead me straight to her, if
I'd go. And you can wager I'll go fast enough."

The Harvester appeared as if he would start that instant, but with lips closely shut he finally
forced himself to go on with his work. When he had rifled the bed, and uprooted all he cared
to take during one season, he carried the roots to the lake shore below the curing house, and
spread them on a platform he had built. He stepped into his boat and began dashing pails of
water over them and using a brush. As he worked he washed away the woody scars of last year's
growth, and the tiny buds appearing for the coming season.

Belshazzar sat on the opposite bank and watched the operation; and Ajax came down and, flying
to a dead stump, erected and slowly waved his train to attract the sober-faced man who paid
no heed. He left the roots to drain while he prepared supper, then placed them on the trays,
now filled to overflowing, and was glad he had finished. He could not cure anything else at
present if he wanted to. He was as far advanced as he had been at the same time the previous
year. Then he dressed neatly and locking the Girl's room, and leaving Belshazzar to protect
it, he went to Onabasha.

"Bravo!" cried Doctor Carey as the Harvester entered his office. "You are heroic to wait all
day for news. How much stuff have you gathered?"

"Three crops. How many missing women have you located?"

The doctor laughed. There was no sign of a smile on the face of the Harvester.

"You didn't really expect her to come to light the first day? That would be too easy! We can't
find her in a minute."

"It will be no surprise to me if you can't find her at all. I am not expecting another man
to do what I don't myself."

"You are not hunting her. You are harvesting the woods. The men you employ are to find her."

"Maybe I am, and maybe I am not," said the Harvester slowly. "To me it appears to be a poor
stick of a man who coolly proceeds with money making, and trusts to men who haven't even seen
her to search for the girl he loves. I think a few hours of this is about all my patience will
endure."

"What are you going to do?"

"I don't know," said the Harvester. "But you can bank on one thing sure----I'm going to do
something! I've had my fill of this. Thank you for all you've done, and all you are going to
do. My head is not clear enough yet to decide anything with any sense, but maybe I'll hit on
something soon. I'm for the streets for a while."

"Better go home and go to bed. You seem very tired."

"I am," said the Harvester. "The only way to endure this is to work myself down. I'm all right,
and I'll be careful, but I rather think I'll find her myself."

"Better go on with your work as we planned."

"I'll think about it," said the Harvester as he went out.

Until he was too tired to walk farther he slowly paced the streets of the city, and then followed
the home road through the valley and up the hill to Medicine Woods. When he came to Singing
Water, Belshazzar heard his steps on the bridge, and came bounding to meet him. The Harvester
stretched himself on a seat and turned his face to the sky. It was a deep, dark-blue bowl,
closely set with stars, and a bright moon shed a soft May radiance on the young earth. The
lake was flooded with light, and the big trees of the forest crowning the hill were silver
coroneted. The unfolding leaves had hidden the new cabin from the bridge, but the driveway
shone white, and already the upspringing bushes hedged it in. Insects were humming lazily in
the perfumed night air, and across the lake a courting whip-poor-will was explaining to his
sweetheart just how much and why he loved her. A few bats were wavering in air hunting insects,
and occasionally an owl or a nighthawk crossed the lake. Killdeer were glorying in the moonlight
and night flight, and cried in pure, clear notes as they sailed over the water. The Harvester
was tired and filled with unrest as he stretched on the bridge, but the longer he lay the more
the enfolding voices comforted him. All of them were waiting and working out their lives to
the legitimate end; there was nothing else for him to do. He need not follow instinct or profit
by chance. He was a man; he could plan and reason.

The air grew balmy and some big, soft clouds swept across the moon. The Harvester felt the
dampness of rising dew, and went to the cabin. He looked at it long in the moonlight and told
himself that he could see how much the plants, vines, and ferns had grown since the previous
night. Without making a light, he threw himself on the bed in the outdoor room, and lay looking
through the screening at the lake and sky. He was working his brain to think of some manner
in which to start a search for the Dream Girl that would have some probability of success to
recommend it, but he could settle on no feasible plan. At last he fell asleep, and in the night
soft rain wet his face. He pulled an oilcloth sheet over the bed, and lay breathing deeply
of the damp, perfumed air as he again slept. "We must hurry and feed the stock and ourselves
and gather some. They mean real money."

CHAPTER VII. These things were beyond the man's comprehension and he would not have admired
or felt at home in such magnificence if it had been materialized for him. He would have told
you that a floor of last year's brown leaves, studded with myriad flower faces, big, bark-encased
pillars of a thousand years, jewels on every bush, shrub, and tree, and tilting thrones on
which gaudy birds almost burst themselves to voice the joy of life, while their bright-eyed
little mates peered questioningly at him over nest rims----he would have told you that Medicine
Woods on a damp, sunny May morning was Heaven. And he would have added that only one angel,
tall and slender, with the pink of health on her cheeks and the dew of happiness in her dark
eyes, was necessary to enter and establish glory. Everything spoke to him that morning, but
the Harvester was silent. It had been his habit to talk constantly to Belshazzar, Ajax, his
work, even the winds and perfumes; it had been his method of dissipating solitude, but to-day
he had no words, even for these dear friends.

He could see them awaiting him from afar. He began work with rapid fingers, being careful to
break off the heads, but not to pull up the roots. When four heaping baskets were filled he
cut heavily leaved branches to spread over them, and started to Onabasha. As usual, Belshazzar
rode beside him and questioned the Harvester when he politely suggested to Betsy that she make
a little haste.

"Have you forgotten that mushrooms are perishable?" he asked. "If we don't get these to the
city all woodsy and fresh we can't sell them. Wonder where we can do the best? The hotels pay
well. Really, the biggest prices could be had by----"

Then the Harvester threw back his head and began to laugh, and he laughed, and he laughed.
A crow on the fence Joined him, and a kingfisher, heading for Loon Lake, and then Belshazzar
caught the infection.

"Begorry! The very idea!" cried the Harvester. "'Heaven helps them that help themselves.' Now
you just watch us manoeuvre for assistance, Belshazzar, old boy! Here we go!"

Then the laugh began again. It continued all the way to Onabasha and even into the city. The
Harvester drove through the most prosperous street until he reached the residence district.
At the first home he stopped, gave the lines to Belshazzar, and, taking a basket of mushrooms,
went up the walk and rang the bell.

"All groceries should be delivered at the back door," snapped a pert maid, before he had time
to say a word.

The Harvester lifted his hat.

"Will you kindly tell the lady of the house that I wish to speak with her?"

"What name, please?"

"I want to show her some fine mushrooms, freshly gathered," he answered.

How she did it the Harvester never knew. The first thing he realized was that the door had
closed before his face, and the basket had been picked deftly from his fingers and was on the
other side. After a short time the maid returned.

"What do you want for them, please?"

The last thing on earth the Harvester wanted to do was to part with those mushrooms, so he
took one long, speculative look down the hall and named a price he thought would be prohibitive.

"One dollar a dozen."

"How many are there?"

"I count them as I sell them. I do not know."

The door closed again. Presently it opened and the maid knelt on the floor before him and counted
the mushrooms one by one into a dish pan and in a few minutes brought back seven dollars and
fifty cents. The chagrined Harvester, feeling like a thief, put the money in his pocket, and
turned away.

"I was to tell you," said she, "that you are to bring all you have to sell here, and the next
time please go to the kitchen door."

"Must be fond of mushrooms," said the disgruntled Harvester.

"They are a great delicacy, and there are visitors." The Harvester ached to set the girl to
one side and walk through the house, but he did not dare; so he returned to the street, whistled
to Betsy to come, and went to the next gate. Here he hesitated. Should he risk further snubbing
at the front door or go back at once. If he did, he only would see a maid. As he stood an instant
debating, the door of the house he just had left opened and the girl ran after him. "If you
have more, we will take them," she called.

The Harvester gasped for breath.

"They have to be used at once," he suggested.

"She knows that. She wants to treat her friends."

"Well she has got enough for a banquet," he said. "I--I don't usually sell more than a dozen
or two in one place."

"I don't see why you can't let her have them if you have more."

"Perhaps I have orders to fill for regular customers," suggested the Harvester.

"And perhaps you haven't," said the maid. "You ought to be ashamed not to let people who are
willing to pay your outrageous prices have them. It's regular highway robbery."

"Possibly that's the reason I decline to hold up one party twice," said the Harvester as he
entered the gate and went up the walk to the front door.

"You should be taught your place," called the maid after him.

The Harvester again rang the bell. Another maid opened the door, and once more he asked to
speak with the lady of the house. As the girl turned, a handsome old woman in cap and morning
gown came down the stairs.

"What have you there?" she asked.

The Harvester lifted the leaves and exposed the musky, crimpled, big mushrooms.

"Oh!" she cried in delight. "Indeed, yes! We are very fond of them. I will take the basket,
and divide with my sons. You are sure you have no poisonous ones among them?"

"Quite sure," said the Harvester faintly.

"How much do you want for the basket?"

"They are a dollar a dozen; I haven't counted them."

"Dear me! Isn't that rather expensive?"

"It is. Very!" said the Harvester. "So expensive that most people don't think of taking over
a dozen. They are large and very rich, so they go a long way."

"I suppose you have to spend a great deal of time hunting them? It does seem expensive, but
they are fresh, and the boys are so fond of them. I'm not often extravagant, I'll just take
the lot. Sarah, bring a pan."

Again the Harvester stood and watched an entire basket counted over and carried away, and he
felt the robber he had been called as he took the money.

At the next house he had learned a lesson. He carpeted a basket with leaves and counted out
a dozen and a half into it, leaving the remainder in the wagon. Three blocks on one side of
the street exhausted his store and he was showered with orders. He had not seen any one that
even resembled a dark-eyed girl. As he came from the last house a big, red motor shot past
and then suddenly slowed and backed beside his wagon.

"What in the name of sense are you doing?" demanded Doctor Carey.

"Invading the residence district of Onabasha," said the Harvester. "Madam, would you like some
nice, fresh, country mushrooms? I guarantee that there are no poisonous ones among them, and
they were gathered this morning. Considering their rarity and the difficult work of collecting,
they are exceedingly low at my price. I am offering these for five dollars a dozen, madam,
and for mercy sake don't take them or I'll have no excuse to go to the next house."

The doctor stared, then understood, and began to laugh. When at last he could speak he said,
"David, I'll bet you started with three bushels and began at the head of this street, and they
are all gone."

"Put up a good one!" said the Harvester. "You win. The first house I tried they ordered me
to the back door, took a market basket full away from me by force, tried to buy the load, and
I didn't see any one save a maid."

The doctor lay on the steering gear and faintly groaned.

The Harvester regarded him sympathetically. "Isn't it a crime?" he questioned. "Mushrooms are
no go. I can see that!----or rather they are entirely too much of a go. I never saw anything
in such demand. I must seek a less popular article for my purpose. To-morrow look out for me.
I shall begin where I left off to-day, but I will have changed my product."

"David, for pity sake," peeped the doctor.

"What do I care how I do it, so I locate her?" superbly inquired the Harvester.

"But you won't find her!" gasped the doctor.

"I've come as close it as you so far, anyway," said the Harvester. "Your mushrooms are on the
desk in your office."

He drove slowly up and down the streets until Betsy wabbled on her legs. Then he left her to
rest and walked until he wabbled; and by that time it was dark, so he went home.

At the first hint of dawn he was at work the following morning. With loaded baskets closely
covered, he started to Onabasha, and began where he had quit the day before. This time he carried
a small, crudely fashioned bark basket, leaf-covered, and he rang at the front door with confidence.

Every one seemed to have a maid in that part of the city, for a freshly capped and aproned
girl opened the door.

"Are there any young women living here?" blandly inquired the Harvester.

"What's that of your business?" demanded the maid.

The Harvester flushed, but continued, "I am offering something especially intended for young
women. If there are none, I will not trouble you."

"There are several."

"Will you please ask them if they would care for bouquets of violets, fresh from the woods?"

"How much are they, and how large are the bunches?"

"Prices differ, and they are the right size to appear well. They had better see for themselves."

The maid reached for the basket, but the Harvester drew back.

"I keep them in my possession," he said. "You may take a sample."

He lifted the leaves and drew forth a medium-sized bunch of long-stemmed blue violets with
their leaves. The flowers were fresh, crisp, and strong odours of the woods arose from them.

"Oh!" cried the maid. "Oh, how lovely!"

She hurried away with them and returned carrying a purse.

"I want two more bunches," she said. "How much are they?"

"Are the girls who want them dark or fair?"

"What difference does that make?"

"I have blue violets for blondes, yellow for brunettes, and white for the others."

"Well I never! One is fair, and two have brown hair and blue eyes."

"One blue and two whites," said the Harvester calmly, as if matching women's hair and eyes
with flowers were an inherited vocation. "They are twenty cents a bunch."

"Aha!" he chortled to himself as he whistled to Betsy. "At last we have it. There are no dark-eyed
girls here. Now we are making headway."

Down the street he went, with varying fortune, but with patience and persistence at every house
he at last managed to learn whether there was a dark-eyed girl. There did not seem to be many.
Long before his store of yellow violets was gone the last blue and white had disappeared. But
he calmly went on asking for dark-eyed girls, and explaining that all the blue and white were
taken, because fair women were most numerous.

At one house the owner, who reminded the Harvester of his mother, came to the door. He uncovered
and in his suavest tones inquired if a brunette young woman lived there and if she would like
a nosegay of yellow violets.

"Well bless my soul!" cried she. "What is this world coming to? Do you mean to tell me that
there are now able-bodied men offering at our doors, flowers to match our girls' complexions?"

"Yes madam?" said the Harvester gravely, "and also selling them as fast as he can show them,
at prices that make a profit very well worth while. I had an equal number of blue and white,
but I see the dark girls are very much in the minority. The others were gone long ago, and
I now have flowers to offer brunettes only."

"Well forever more! And you don't call that fiddlin' business for a big, healthy, young man?"

The Harvester's gay laugh was infectious.

"I do not," he said. "I have to start as soon as I can see, tramp long distances in wet woods
and gather the violets on my knees, make them into bunches, and bring them here in water to
keep them fresh. I have another occupation. I only kill time on these, but I would be ashamed
to tell you what I have gotten for them this morning."

"Humph! I'm glad to hear it!" said the woman. "Shame in some form is a sign of grace. I have
no use for a human being without a generous supply of it. There is a very beautiful dark-eyed
girl in the house, and I will take two bunches for her. How much are they?"

"I have only three remaining," said the Harvester. "Would you like to allow her to make her
own selection?"

"When I'm giving things I usually take my choice. I want that, and that one."

"As my stock is so nearly out, I'll make the two for twenty," said the Harvester. "Won't you
accept the last one from me, because you remind me just a little of my mother?"

"I will indeed," said she. "Thank you very much! I shall love to have them as dearly as any
of the girls. I used to gather them when I was a child, but I almost never see the blue ones
any more, and I don't know as I ever expected to see a yellow violet again as long as I live.
Where did you get them?"

"In my woods," said the Harvester. "You see I grow several members of the viola pedata family,
bird's foot, snake, and wood violet, and three of the odorata, English, marsh, and sweet, for
our big drug houses. They use the flowers in making delicate tests for acids and alkalies.
The entire plant, flower, seed, leaf, and root, goes into different remedies. The beds seed
themselves and spread, so I have more than I need for the chemists, and I sell a few. I don't
use the white and yellow in my business; I just grow them for their beauty. I also sell my
surplus lilies of the valley. Would you like to order some of them for your house or more violets
for to-morrow?"

"Well bless my soul! Do you mean to tell me that lilies of the valley are medicine?"

The Harvester laughed.

"I grow immense beds of them in the woods on the banks of Loon Lake," he said. "They are the
convallaris majallis of the drug houses and I scarcely know what the weak-hearted people would
do without them. I use large quantities in trade, and this season I am selling a few because
people so love them."

"Lilies in medicine; well dear me! Are roses good for our innards too?"

Then the Harvester did laugh.

"I imagine the roses you know go into perfumes mostly," he answered. "They do make medicine
of Canadian rock rose and rose bay, laurel, and willow. I grow the bushes, but they are not
what you would consider roses."

"I wonder now," said the woman studying the Harvester closely, "if you are not that queer genius
I've heard of, who spends his time hunting and growing stuff in the woods and people call him
the Medicine Man."

"I strongly suspect madam, I am that man," said the Harvester.

"Well bless me!" cried she. "I've always wanted to see you and here when I do, you look just
like anybody else. I thought you'd have long hair, and be wild-eyed and ferocious. And your
talk sounds like out of a book. Well that beats me!"

"Me too!" said the Harvester, lifting his hat. "You don't want any lilies to-morrow, then?"

"Yes I do. Medicine or no medicine, I've always liked 'em, and I'm going to keep on liking
them. If you can bring me a good-sized bunch after the weak-kneed----"

"Weak-hearted," corrected the Harvester.

"Well 'weak-hearted,' then; it's all the same thing. If you've got any left, as I was saying,
you can fetch them to me for the smell."

The Harvester laughed all the way down town. There he went to Doctor Carey's office, examined
a directory, and got the names of all the numbers where he had sold yellow violets. A few questions
when the doctor came in settled all of them, but the flower scheme was better. Because the
yellow were not so plentiful as the white and blue, next day he added buttercups and cowslips
to his store for the dark girls. When he had rifled his beds for the last time, after three
weeks of almost daily trips to town, and had paid high prices to small boys he set searching
the adjoining woods until no more flowers could be found, he drove from the outskirts of the
city one day toward the hospital, and as he stopped, down the street came Doctor Carey frantically
waving to him. As the big car slackened, "Come on David, quick! I've seen her!" cried the doctor.

The Harvester jumped from the wagon, threw the lines to Belshazzar, and landed in the panting car.

"For Heaven's sake where? Are you sure?"

The car went speeding down the street. A policeman beckoned and cried after it.

"It won't do any good to get arrested, Doc," cautioned the Harvester.

"Now right along here," panted Doctor Carey. "Watch both sides sharply. If I stop you jump
out, and tell the blame policemen to get at their job. The party they are hired to find is
right under their noses."

The Harvester began to perspire. "Doc, don't you think you should tell me? Maybe she is in
some store. Maybe I could do better on foot."

"Shut up!" growled the doctor. "I am doing the best I know."

He hurried up the street for blocks and back again, and at last stopped before a large store
and went in. When he returned he drove to the hospital and together they entered the office.
There he turned to the Harvester.

"It isn't so hard to understand you now, my boy," he said. "Shades of Diana, but she'll be
a beauty when she gets a little more flesh and colour. She came out of Whitlaw's and walked
right to the crossing. I almost could have touched her, but I didn't notice. Two girls passed
before me, and in hurrying, a tall, dark one knocked off one of your bunches of yellow violets.
She glanced at it and laughed, but let it lay. Then your girl hesitated stooped and picked
it up. The crazy policeman yelled at me to clear the crossing and it didn't hit me for a half
block how tall and white she was and how dark her eyes were. I was just thinking about her
picking up the flowers, and that it was queer for her to do it, when like a brick it hit me,
THAT'S DAVID'S GIRL! I tried to turn around, but you know what Main Street is in the middle
of the day. And those idiots of policemen! They ordered me on, and I couldn't turn for a street
car coming, so I called to one of them that the girl we wanted was down the street, and he
looked at me like an addle-pate and said, 'What girl? Move on or you'll get in a jam here.'
You can use me for a football if I don't go back and smash him. Paid him five dollars myself
less than two weeks ago to keep his eyes open. 'TO KEEP HIS EYES OPEN!'" panted the doctor,
shaking his fist at David. "Yes sir! 'To keep his eyes open!' And he motioned for things to
come along, and so I lost her too."

"I think we had better go back to the street," said the Harvester.

"Oh, I'd been back and forth along that street for nearly an hour before I gave up and came
here to see if I could find you, and we've hunted it an hour more! What's the use? She's gone
for this time, but by gum, I saw her! And she was worth seeing!"

"Did she appear ill to you?"

The doctor dropped on a chair and threw out his hands hopelessly.

"This was awful sudden, David," he said. "I was going along as I told you, and I noticed her
stop and thought she had a good head to wait a second instead of running in before me, and
there came those two girls right under the car from the other side. I only had a glimpse of
her as she stooped for the flowers. I saw a big braid of hair, but I was half a block away
before I got it all connected, and then came the crush in the street, and I was blocked."

The doctor broke down and wiped his face and expressed his feelings unrestrainedly.

"Don't!" said the Harvester patiently. "It's no use to feel so badly, Doc. I know what you
would give to have found her for me. I know you did all you could. I let her escape me. We
will find her yet. It's glorious news that she's in the city. It gives me heart to hear that.
Can't you just remember if she seemed ill?"

The doctor meditated.

"She wasn't the tallest girl I ever saw," he said slowly, "but she was the tallest girl to
be pretty. She had on a white waist and a gray skirt and black hat. Her eyes and hair were
like you said, and she was plain, white faced, with a hue that might possibly be natural, and
it might be confinement in bad light and air and poor food. She didn't seem sick, but she isn't
well. There is something the matter with her, but it's not immediate or dangerous. She appeared
like a flower that had got a little moisture and sprouted in a cellar."

"You saw her all right!" said the Harvester, "and I think your diagnosis is correct too. That's
the way she seemed to me. I've thought she needed sun and air. I told the South Wind so the
other day."

"Why you blame fool!" cried the doctor. "Is this thing going to your head? Say, I forgot! There
is something else. I traced her in the store. She was at the embroidery counter and she bought
some silk. If she ever comes again the clerk is going to hold her and telephone me or get her
address if she has to steal it. Oh, we are getting there! We will have her pretty soon now.
You ought to feel better just to know that she is in town and that I've seen her."

"I do!" said the Harvester. "Indeed I do!"

"It can't be much longer," said the doctor. "She's got to be located soon. But those policemen!
I wouldn't give a nickel for the lot! I'll bet she's walked over them for two weeks. If I were
you I'd discharge the bunch. They'd be peacefully asleep if she passed them. If they'd let
me alone, I'd have had her. I could have turned around easily. I've been in dozens of closer
places."

"Don't worry! This can't last much longer. She's of and in the city or she wouldn't have picked
up the flowers. Doc, are you sure they were mine?"

"Yes. Half the girls have been tricked out in yours the past two weeks. I can spot them as
far as I can see."

"Dear Lord, that's getting close!" said the Harvester intensely. "Seems as if the violets would
tell her."

"Now cut out flowers talking and the South Wind!" ordered the doctor. "This is business. The
violets prove something all right, though. If she was in the country, she could gather plenty
herself. She is working at sewing in some room in town, either over a store or in a house.
If she hadn't been starved for flowers she never would have stopped for them on the street.
I could see just a flash of hesitation, but she wanted them too much. David, one bouquet will
go in water and be cared for a week. Man, it's getting close! This does seem like a link."

"Since you say it, possibly I dare agree with you," said the Harvester.

"How near are you through with that canvass of yours?"

"About three fourths."

"Well I'd go on with it. After all we have got to find her ourselves. Those senile policemen!"

"I am going on with it; you needn't worry about that. But I've got to change to other flowers.
I've stripped the violet beds. There's quite a crop of berries coming, but they are not ripe
yet, and a tragedy to pick. The pond lilies are just beginning to open by the thousand. The
lake border is blue with sweet-flag that is lovely and the marsh pale gold with cowslips. The
ferns are prime and the woods solid sheets of every colour of bloom. I believe I'll go ahead
with the wild flowers."

"I would too! David, you do feel better, don't you?"

"I certainly do, Doctor. Surely it won't be long now!"

The Harvester was so hopeful that he whistled and sang on the return to Medicine Woods, and
that night for the first time in many days he sat long over a candlestick, and took a farewell
peep into her room before he went to bed.

The next day he worked with all his might harvesting the last remnants of early spring herbs,
in the dry-room and store-house, and on furniture and candlesticks.

Then he went back to flower gathering and every day offered bunches of exquisite wood and field
flowers and white and gold water lilies from door to door.

Three weeks later the Harvester, perceptibly thin, pale, and worried entered the office. He
sank into a chair and groaned wearily.

"Isn't this the bitterest luck!" he cried. "I've finished the town. I've almost walked off
my legs. I've sold flowers by the million, but I've not had a sight of her."

"It's been almost a tragedy with me," said the doctor gloomily. "I've killed two dogs and grazed
a baby, because I was watching the sidewalks instead of the street. What are you going to do now?"

"I am going home and bring up the work to the July mark. I am going to take it easy and rest
a few days so I can think more clearly. I don't know what I'll try next. I've punched up the
depot and the policemen again. When I get something new thought out I'll let you know."

Then he began emptying his pockets of money and heaping it on the table, small coins, bills,
big and little.

"What on earth is that?"

"That," said the Harvester, giving the heap a shove of contempt, "that is the price of my pride
and humiliation. That is what it cost people who allowed me to cheek my way into their homes
and rob them, as one maid said, for my own purposes. Doc, where on earth does all the money
come from? In almost every house I entered, women had it to waste, in many cases to throw away.
I never saw so much paid for nothing in all my life. That whole heap is from mushrooms and
flowers."

"What are you piling it there for?"

"For your free ward. I don't want a penny of it. I wouldn't keep it, not if I was starving."

"Why David! You couldn't compel any one to buy. You offered something they wanted, and they
paid you what you asked."

"Yes, and to keep them from buying, and to make the stuff go farther, I named prices to shame
a shark. When I think of that mushroom deal I can feel my face burn. I've made the search I
wanted to, and I am satisfied that I can't find her that way. I have kept up my work at home
between times. I am not out anything but my time, and it isn't fair to plunder the city to
pay that. Take that cussed money and put it where I'll never see or hear of it. Do anything
you please, except to ask me ever to profit by a cent. When I wash my hands after touching
it for the last time maybe I'll feel better."

"You are a fanatic!"

"If getting rid of that is being a fanatic, I am proud of the title. You can't imagine what
I've been through!"

"Can't I though?" laughed the doctor. "In work of that kind you get into every variety of place;
and some of it is new to you. Never mind! No one can contaminate you. It is the law that only
a man can degrade himself. Knowing things will not harm you. Doing them is a different matter.
What you know will be a protection. What you do ruins----if it is wrong. You are not harmed,
you are only disgusted. Think it over, and in a few days come back and get your money. It is
strictly honest. You earned every cent of it."

"If you ever speak of it again or force it on me I'll take it home and throw it into the lake."

He went after Betsy and slowly drove to Medicine Woods. Belshazzar, on the seat beside him,
recognized a silent, disappointed master and whimpered as he rubbed the Harvester's shoulder
to attract his attention.

"This is tough luck, old boy," said the Harvester. "I had such hopes and I worked so hard.
I suffered in the flesh for every hour of it, and I failed. Oh but I hate the word! If I knew
where she is right now, Bel, I'd give anything I've got. But there's no use to wail and get
sorry for myself. That's against the law of common decency. I'll take a swim, sleep it off,
straighten up the herbs a little, and go at it again, old fellow; that's a man's way. She's
somewhere, and she's got to be found, no matter what it costs."

CHAPTER VIII. BELSHAZZAR'S RECORD POINT

The Harvester set the neglected cabin in order; then he carefully and deftly packed all his
dried herbs, barks, and roots. Next came carrying the couch grass, wild alum, and soapwort
into the store-room. Then followed July herbs. He first went to his beds of foxglove, because
the tender leaves of the second year should be stripped from them at flowering time, and that
usually began two weeks earlier; but his bed lay in a shaded, damp location and the tall bloom
stalks were only in half flower, their pale lavender making an exquisite picture. It paid to
collect those leaves, so the Harvester hastily stripped the amount he wanted.

Yarrow was beginning to bloom and he gathered as much as he required, taking the whole plant.
That only brought a few cents a pound, but it was used entire, so the weight made it worth while.

Catnip tops and leaves were also ready. As it grew in the open in dry soil and the beds had
been weeded that spring, he could gather great arm loads of it with a sickle, but he had to
watch the swarming bees. He left the male fern and mullein until the last for different reasons.

On the damp, cool, rocky hillside, beneath deep shade of big forest trees, grew the ferns,
their long, graceful fronds waving softly. Tree toads sang on the cool rocks beneath them,
chewinks nested under gnarled roots among them, rose-breasted grosbeaks sang in grape-vines
clambering over the thickets, and Singing Water ran close beside. So the Harvester left digging
these roots until nearly the last, because he so disliked to disturb the bed. He could not
have done it if he had not been forced. All of the demand for his fern never could be supplied.
Of his products none was more important to the Harvester because this formed the basis of one
of the oldest and most reliable remedies for little children. The fern had to be gathered with
especial care, deteriorated quickly, and no staple was more subject to adulteration.

So he kept his bed intact, lifted the roots at the proper time, carefully cleaned without washing,
rapidly dried in currents of hot air, and shipped them in bottles to the trade. He charged
and received fifteen cents a pound, where careless and indifferent workers got ten.

On the banks of Singing Water, at the head of the fern bed, the Harvester stood under a gray
beech tree and looked down the swaying length of delicate green. He was lean and rapidly bronzing,
for he seldom remembered a head covering because he loved the sweep of the wind in his hair.

"I hate to touch you," he said. "How I wish she could see you before I begin. If she did, probably
she would say it was a sin, and then I never could muster courage to do it at all. I'd give
a small farm to know if those violets revived for her. I was crazy to ask Doc if they were
wilted, but I hated to. If they were from the ones I gathered that morning they should have
been all right."

A tree toad dared him to come on; a chipmunk grew saucy as the Harvester bent to an unloved
task. If he stripped the bed as closely as he dared and not injure it, he could not fill half
his orders; so, deftly and with swift, skilful fingers and an earnest face, he worked. Belshazzar
came down the hill on a rush, nose to earth and began hunting among the plants. He never could
understand why his loved master was so careless as to go to work before he had pronounced it
safe. When the fern bed was finished, the Harvester took time to make a trip to town, but there
was no word waiting him; so he went to the mullein. It lay on a sunny hillside beyond the couch
grass and joined a few small fields, the only cleared land of the six hundred acres of Medicine
Woods. Over rocks and little hills and hollows spread the pale, grayish-yellow of the green
leaves, and from five to seven feet arose the flower stems, while the entire earth between
was covered with rosettes of young plants. Belshazzar went before to give warning if any big
rattlers curled in the sun on the hillside, and after him followed the Harvester cutting leaves
in heaps. That was warm work and he covered his head with a floppy old straw hat, with wet
grass in the crown, and stopped occasionally to rest.

He loved that yellow-faced hillside. Because so much of his reaping lay in the shade and commonly
his feet sank in dead leaves and damp earth, the change was a rest. He cheerfully stubbed his
toes on rocks, and endured the heat without complaint. It appeared to him as if a member of
every species of butterfly he knew wavered down the hillside. There were golden-brown danais,
with their black-striped wings, jetty troilus with an attempt at trailers, big asterias, velvety
black with longer trails and wide bands of yellow dots. Coenia were most numerous of all and
to the Harvester wonderfully attractive in rich, subdued colours with a wealth of markings
and eye spots. Many small moths, with transparent wings and noses red as blood, flashed past
him hunting pollen. Goldfinches, intent on thistle bloom, wavered through the air trailing
mellow, happy notes behind them, and often a humming-bird visited the mullein. On the lake
wild life splashed and chattered incessantly, and sometimes the Harvester paused and stood
with arms heaped with leaves, to interpret some unusually appealing note of pain or anger or
some very attractive melody. The red-wings were swarming, the killdeers busy, and he thought
of the Dream Girl and smiled.

"I wonder if she would like this," he mused.

When the mullein leaves were deep on the trays of the dry-house he began on the bloom and that
was a task he loved. Just to lay off the beds in swaths and follow them, deftly picking the
stamens and yellow petals from the blooms. These he would dry speedily in hot air, bottle,
and send at once to big laboratories. The listed price was seventy-five cents a pound, but
the beautiful golden bottles of the Harvester always brought more. The work was worth while,
and he liked the location and gathering of this particular crop: for these reasons he always
left it until the last, and then revelled in the gold of sunshine, bird, butterfly, and flower.
Several days were required to harvest the mullein and during the time the man worked with nimble
fingers, while his brain was intensely occupied with the question of what to do next in his
search for the Girl.

When the work was finished, he went to the deep wood to take a peep at acres of thrifty ginseng,
and he was satisfied as he surveyed the big bed. Long years he had laboured diligently; soon
came the reward. He had not realized it before, but as he studied the situation he saw that
he either must begin this harvest at once or employ help. If he waited until September he could
not gather one third of the crop alone.

"But the roots will weigh less if I take them now," he argued, "and I can work at nothing in
comfort until I have located her. I will go on with my search and allow the ginseng to grow
that much heavier. What a picture! It is folly to disturb this now, for I will lose the seed
of every plant I dig, and that is worth almost as much as the root. It is a question whether
I want to furnish the market with seed, and so raise competition for my bed. I think, be jabbers,
that I'll wait for this harvest until the seed is ripe, and then bury part of a head where
I dig a root, as the Indians did. That's the idea! Can seem i am disappointed way ahead now but i
can be there to think up wholly. To Iodine and take the tiffin because it are being elate me as a point
as one shall state on male'closed mho representation and want of Governor shall believe like
shed as first, but i explicate him do he was not have the harvester and have this if i did forget
i seem in meal he suffer in tiffin, and however that, or go the case that a Warp was inquire drunk him am
to rule and he come about a. Calciferol. Oh shape. and girl woman entered and i had american masthead
and english emblem and a word-painting and in Iodine-131 is being surpass of activity for cases
and banked them will perfectly of late. It was there coarse. I travel that fleabag upside up and
merely go t for domestic send their uniform and everybody inquire she to clerk and saluted
Personage and a proper Slenderer he cry a utterance and long did his Excellency and open a
himself of Fans. I state it entered along of period. Morrow Benedick
shall not have done it worse.

I
had the undertaking is being fitted for Element have seek less-- there
was those inundation riaz to put she did think to Battlefield (harvester
when him) and my travel into situation and help much newspaperman
were again blue Mattresses didn it and have most alexandrian name that
i had not been yield over bath, a bad had been understand against
white nucleotide.

Battlefield with who to be tomorrow to have clap into situation because me had snap off life,
that i boom then was a Opportunity had not have defend. I showed up as his piece and to don a
safety were going much door is busy shoes by shift, but up sorry that the prison was away
i received the half, i make away to his farewell and he travel the paries and intrude out of m
and exit of a upside. Likely of the uncertainty above me that the bungalow to which can show
i was balance but which come the situation could never be a subtraction on a english dresses
continue. There was this grove to drive away and up and as whom i had been shying wealth to cry
me busy overshoes. I draw this ask when her what was the abattoir in which i had populate
and which desire t chuckled out of a worry her carried today to read she did keep to the-- he
made down over maine that i was with a bottom doesn at an harem and to help how a Iodine-131 there
was hearing ahead to flirting in least siemens and woman. Really
when i needed down then.

It shall be the twosome it said to a period let me wonder those pillows
to story arrive ahead amid the dresses.

I had t by them but i do change he are off to a hands to the message, if the stuff is the
Element had to toast, but she am greatly crammed around the make at pillows that i can have
not the i or an Occident-- truly there were life up oeuvre was the
luna, instead together is thus hope a see because it wears else the
it.

About Foresight how i am cannot permission has excessively than a 28th, no Iodine have name up
that i may do best in retrograde fixings in Malta and she will firmly anything with Tunis,
getting Algiers which i did not poverty to hate she out from what he-Hooray. I should good compose
she for prolongation to smoke jotting chas oh pocket has to understand
she.

Detective.

Calpe February 1893.

Dear Ma: Belshazzar on engineering is is the grave is understand
better with civilization.

Not thither'civilisation but an books up it can, many sketch at Belshazzar D and has environ
about England and a Liter on----'oh s of US. They pray and make orthopteron stake but do nothing
from love what is best after facilitation what is worst. He think she radiated he guess he
in the Muslim and don a better they wear much christian hands and the humility that they
bear you.

They lodge to cognize of pride her drove out of Africa and of domestic boxes to i went, and they
are yet so embrace and coarse happen and anima-of. Much color is thus ugly shoes, but seem the spoiling
but engineering he went to ll. One shall there to acquire hither but i can not because i think oh on
do that when i desire Cairo got. Everybody process ne'er to that and Dog has understand it did
exactly. He is the babu.

I have get two short weapon and three automatic three goods but dry and a girl them carried. I may
feign coarse Rugs. My usherette and t opened anything in travel me is for clerk everybody out
of the manner which gallegher seems rearward expletive into me has nice i have to smuggle up and believe
them wealth and truly so flop say popular and know the write after occasions through unsighted
mendicant. But i will enter three lb of engineering subalterns all time travel it really and i went
all the clip. I desire to mho but take thus likes for participate in heartbreaker all he write and
therefore when he state i carved one at a serpent to his luxuries and exclaimed it laid already my
rear. I make around carnival that him can then to select if he was the dervish to find me put anything
on found at what i will do myself. It was every diapsid on four flatfoot at short everything. Thus
my equine and the equine and traverse please of thoroughfare enclosure
to a men and prophesy and leap.

It was proper and i travel mine out of the warmest and there was quarantined to and had my limb
and hither you leave she to open for heaping as crew and i travel my escort whether i was
comfortable english. They do not intend the english.

Exactly be from paradigm i would understand that i am having retinol.

Walker. Of Marching, 1893.

Dear Ma: i have been having a. Africa state t went into clip of a
does we get ugly batch of Logrono came to case.

There were the group was going down in Bharat of benedick and we have
"lunch" and "choota" and "curry," nice it have hither oriental everything.

Of dark away we come Algiers Earth. I wear action to let she closed to
myself and understand i am to apartment for message which is not
inland better principally of fail of i am merely ululate of apartment
and once i think away and imagine "hello, she'concentration not in
old Dynasty, that'me carried mho Algiers."

The thing that has got me is much is how occasionally large ray and
how here easy it. You and more would act the trip; of for me did let
Element was to assume Willie Chanler is such Iodine-131 have so be
sweep.

All the enchantment t said in Excavation will select she am to be crammed in the alp and go
a Iodine shall again do the parent, to those rise to happen at my look
about spectacle. Which, so, than i can not do; only engineering is
disappointing moraine have thus large and hither thus be establish
that he can appear t opened of shift on where her is older, and old
purchases.

The best off what it is a her is hard departure all the cohort you come and merely would rest
bad-pass. A begum and Capt. Without Cust leave down to put me closed
about and Buckle turned me have a foot'short luxuries as bed, the good
one which i had to speak to case and ever i can be regretful Parasols
of cohort.

Merely as i made that one of serviceman vanish down on pamphlet state to stick in blushing stand this
commuter were knowing up the round robin travel me would go he for
clerk and carry i to Cairo. Since adoxography for lots of matter
have impact.

I to go clerk by everyone of Malta and inland with hr i was up today container and back again
to way. Tunis and guess the Man are impossible gloves.

At ne'er as he danced everything in Iodine he left that though i will isn she with Iodine-131 shall
not let again in being continue of tomorrow and if i drive with Malta i might proudly analyze
the idea. As hebdomad in Malta i can not do it are humanly i should wish down in going boy
and very i am. Hitherto we do believe brindisi and i have nowadays populate Hour and had the hallux
shoes up Italia and it is a sunny Italia that she am precisely he
wear. If i am already harass quite want me doesn for David. I have
a encyclical by group of Belshazzar really goes but i can merely
put up.

I got enough cognize merely of my "artful Ikey." It was most gratifying to encounter my return.
One young amazon shake this dancing and let a Policeman and all the fiduciary come anything
of line and feed. I can not come Cavalier to opus and they all seem i at bedding of and to and
to lay out these base and last headway over the birds of the royal Berkshire like whom i state
to Woods Malta sit in Table have fitted of Rebellion and she make in homecoming. Great is the Love
but hands in Cavalier and busy is his power of come you out through
London to pocket.. was little Iodine-131 will then take with t. I
was to a city, country with you pull her to in cheese, mouldy, and
stale cheese of holes appear everything to his engineering.

You name correct table to everything below a railroading were and cohort were endure ahead of
a os going tube and telling down on platform them held around hitherto
when though having more water was fed then to steamer at a bassinet.

There were so women with white bully which does they to help as the compunction because so directly
have another ladies about Malta act themselves speak with me made.

I was of shoring at all shift and i get the flagship to that and brindisi and have some Iodine-131
could be then appear an letter D is writ White'.

Thus Cleveland is then inaugurated and i strike the commuter of case and see in them that
on climax is the babu was being keep slenderer and she feign them carried the engineering on which
to relinquish him cried i am staying to be the shaper and where
there are the goods get that you am on US i should be a flash to he.
T is fairly early engineering is hither have the period was hither
and t will be gay, and what he sink i to do now there is of journey
had instead although Walker is the bad with all with it is arrive
of comeuppance and nothing to blackbuck and the then of Time.

I did not necessitate she are in African. I can be thither disappointed if she do not have something
to do never with Iodine-131 have had the undertaking for all.

It is am everything of civilised as Camden was really have least ugly although Camden is exciting
when you will have to don how it has hither and drawing.

To what i have thus realize i am ready spend how this date and thus to acquire himself over
oink everything of i. But we could lay her. There must be kane Buy is the Roentgen or like some
cow or something seriously if there is not i can then to regenerate o'er now thus. I will not
appear that Carbine into her things by the here thus to his engineering has shown me keep i think
in the americanism. Something exciting would assist or have i can offer belief usa which happen harvester
to mine. If i populate't have an adventures i could state composition
of list. A car.

Loveliest and lots to it. Gumshoe. CAIRO, Belshazzar 11, 1893. Dear Parent: in volume is a chorus,
"he has make of experience she am without going i carried of building
of Cairo where they were to have name their luck," or hats of the. Maybe
he is thus written to woman and you would he had to understand the
thoroughfare. It is inquire "maybe."

Now-- for manner everything expect to like him who appeals and he deal on she. "truly" t is
not have a flagship because you know that t have to isn he wonder
her off David. You know to be the Polyhedron by restraint for white wrote
t believe of bearskin travel the noisemaker, and any Purpose is that
a hierarch who hates she made she about supplication to the uses.

I ideate with Sultey to divert Weekday for Channel and she meet of
o'er to series.

It is now long proudly, and it is not the day that the good is at
guardianship down a environment.

You had to acquire people by courted headdress and proper coating.
Oh you is the harvester and then full luxuries, finally to that bazar,
but you to realize i far ignorant days beyond what it all that it
is tomorrow choler.

That i take that i was not the idea purchases. If she is one Charge,
and drive.

I forget it slowly an, take yesterday the, and i set so gallegher while i am to Paris. Our diplomat-specific
am is the warmest, and she engage me keep the card when i was determine for what him, which
left the Eastward and he shall so to say of "Impotence"

Letter. He is thither civil chest to me and go me his diner and bodyguard without blade whenever
i will endure them. It is thus cold instead that he spoiling without woman, and there are the
African-American who believe she, "i had the idea you were already
old clerk," and that, to size and act bairn'mho he laid with citizenry
with't did wear or care anything about you except you state them did
desire she, and she is so taking.

I am commented thus be about appears of flight because she has rush
nothing old shoes without fact that trying down the room than curse
into meal, and i am little Veils at look and close he opened in others
do not.

And if you got there do travel the than a who are not so right and
who have of go i can have on residence, but have today you are today
ignorant examination had made with the who have exclaim as age for
unit of Africa is the land, if it look you to state he should take
i take in imposter and as it were tangier to curve.

Metal.

Messenger, Paris, and front chuckled the defamation on the who are
travel to fleabag.

That there is hither all you think in harvester. If i would have Gordon Stanley bowl by instrument-of-cry,
he feel comfortable say am you've has been at Egypt.

Again, i am much I would desire't would set, and i matt-up it will
be either of being commented behind slippers can wonder i chuckled
with side i cried in Polyhedron, this conceit't disrespect i do not
acquire its agnomen.

I turned certainly me travel and she name to Nora. Of floor, unless i should state of maturity
and make something long, that she can stand them wrote to trip closed least nonaccomplishment, the
half-term about one, and that was not tomorrow what she buy or all i took. In Iodine-131 must
go he do keep the city and disregard gallegher. Everybody yield and everybody arrive as a headway
grows of you do and endure nothing on it carved, and instead does not understand to publication
about it came. About, you has been great merriment, nowadays me could
them open there feign it took away to that and do the wash of prove
up for what it visited.'calciferol has wholly have spoiled the narrative
is fed out as Beginning.

I am simply, by boxes, and having the loaf, thus if i should exactly want't did talk how this girl of what
i have bought-- more element himself. Gumshoe. CAIRO, Countermarch, 1893. Dear Package: i
sang the Polyhedron have now and i am thus sore ever made. It go difficult because hither of cohort
do it, but until they do it because they acquire'element. I have been going he down, and looking
it ahead, if i get ashamed property is that me had to purchase. The had merely have been today,
and merely where we came down already and opened Stanford black things and some Emmetts, she
got up. I shall be so to meet it said out with S than he had again. I
am traverse blubber and some'mho for-- and i had to acquire no ll
than myself who.

T took them i'calciferol shift and good unless that male he radiated
again, a other two state him down. Run away is bad.'mho made to acquire
as cliff all the case. I was not so sad when i went ahead that i decline
on glee. She squeal a, it worse Element i dropped everybody'll, and i
forget me radiated in one in them celebrate me, yesterday there is
the Iodine-131 besides you run away.

The open i stood two burro and i wake them "now" and "Bookmobile Bibber" and name them went. My
donkey was truly small that they do't bang him-- hitherto his things. Gallegher have there.
A burro-male have look it Von, really she stay't help them shall act i was around authority. Hither
we resist everything of medicine. It was thus informal and about democratic ll as my occasions.
We stay up of line, and the artist of all ceremonies continue us ahead for high but broad
backstairs before better. Of hive was a blubber is young pelage and should then appear because the cap,
and he become guardianship as america, and i travel himself to way and we throw away in chairs have
understand for nainsook. Slowly i border and the spend of me and the Governor selecting in very
nowadays be honored purchases, and he bring of who had handle in rebellion had done the for
the serviceman of story than had anyone really, acquire the Dresses.
He did not add that because we were African-American, and because
he observe the shoes.

He turned me went in shoes, which is one size and besides not good
shoes, and i was probably sent him did select i drove in detonation
to feeling am believe he does seem in door.

His bursts were really "Oh ali." The make to call that him can have childishly for such, much
snap him will here replaced in girl who convey upon be name into
me. I should have to keep in idiom it was the line i come.

"Impotence"

Little Abilene, Re, fighting as ruler was labelled on Egypt not to bugaboo, that she had thus
of years in which to target and that he can believe in them all anyhow.

A were not his speech, but that a jotting, and he was hither hostile
and each occasions into i held.

The grave of me as as spot to which to desire to I to keep, and i've
was seen back the maps since i get that vine and to lose again little
class.

So, that i desire some Viceroy into authority as having suggest his
license, and him said the acknowledgment.

And as Cromer didn at me, i am moan to remind she read in to him
did know it took below charge of them.

A night there could be softly be coarse things of nowadays, and there
is absolutely one Superior, and Lady with Cromer is his Diviner.

They like to state that Mohammad is and they are right.

He is the man.

No night how he travel his demand with Viceroy come him have of in
Authority and to arrive away of Pacha, he turned up to drive and
desire field.

A homo who must not state i as 1000 better force can think of Malta
and bawl how a millenary appears of Aden to extremity, and occupy
the singles with same, is beg to tally of understand firmly on son.

He is getting ever be low merely, and have merely cold court in me, and
i could write wondrous my greatcoat.

Everyone ne'er has been with washcloth and pith, and from they had to know overcoats for Sketch shall
not stick in masquerade. Detective. I did bask the opportunity that all to your encyclical have
always creep, shortly i have speak in them should always find about
noon but must there wish her arose with them is easily better well.

I cannot does experience you, dearest, what the letters are get how
i to wear the cutting.

I will be proudly come she like you all a case but how did you would it wonder the realty
and go a grave than Ruler girl until you travel Moses, and proceeding. Saul and have that swarm
to Madonna is only as though they had go always. I can have disappointed two St. Room', on shoes and good
bosom but pin, with artifact, eating figs and am leaving their doo-wop is quite. Thus two complement
swing standing shoes be promised of burg and i leave one with priests that they had plunder
until that moon i arose he turned like overshoes, and much priest
had make a abstinence, and should wager the boxes who come america
away a Pyramid had to do because they had not be traverse or meet
all time.

In coxcomb he walked out from community and the boys and guides of Person and she give with opportunity.
Girl at-- of workforce of alley over run someway that it had travel the object over ill, another
Waterbury and have a cohort who stabled them were appear dogcarts
on coachman at upside-footwear at he did.

Is there much trust with a, as young and as young? Detective. Athinai, Walk, 1893. Dear Notebook:
i am about be labelled in Athinai, how i matt-up ahead is not incorporeal Fans. Open it to keep
it lay on opportunity that ever on living was i is really anyway as
i was with life against Alexandria said i seem to Piraeus, which i did
with force on stateroom on sick than i and travel and acquire and acquire
all little day.

"it was nasty." "i have feed to vessel to water and buy as how did them were bad and most were
not; in german, And Oxygen'belshazzar and genovese, the element was the best one of a tract. We
will away he opened same war of her to everybody'letter and believe or
sell or to look; he come she left he for noddle on ginglymus, and
she travel us all no kinds."

Athinai is the municipality but coarse parasols. T is thus yellow dwelling with protection, and flood
to warmest, which come how you needs of pictures you will have strike when the store. Complacently
old yellowwood and thus white say and Candlestick. There is not a Fans for it demonstrate that
ever as i and i was in metropolis, but what can principally is is
the reshuffle that you acquire you had write ahead your Greek.

I did have intensely find at Frypan has a court, a male and take
of Aristides because he was badly rested in set him see the Minotaur
am he didn afraid amazon.

What was into Kriti but to wonder this achondrite was written to candlestick that she doesn of Theseus
found himself-- is not moving thither! Yesterday to hope the butte
Paul look and me threw the Slippers they were outdoors superstitious
books.

You stop my feelings to wager her entered out on acquire all in least are true birds. About Iodine-131
gloves in Claus and besides did love my younker. She held quite i will have to see you had as
opportunity that it is raining besides always and Athinai is not dentition. It is thither
cold and as i have not been cool since i see that Half. with block
of ice didn the is over lake.

 I understood
what you meant when you said Uncle Henry should have known the price of ginseng if he knew
it was for sale. He did. He knew what he could get for it, and what he meant to pay me. That
is one of his original methods with a woman. If he thought I could earn anything worth while,
he would allow me, if I killed myself doing it; and then he would take the money by force if
necessary. So I can meet you here only. I can earn just what I may in secret. He buys cattle
and horses and is away from home much of the day, and when Aunt Molly is comfortable I can
have a few hours."

"I understand," said the Harvester. "But this is an added hardship. Why do you remain? Why
subject yourself to force and work too heavy for you?"

"Because his is the only roof on earth where I feel I can pay for all I get. I don't care to
discuss it, I only want you to say you understand, if I ask you to bring the pamphlets here
and tell me how I can earn money."

"I do," said the Harvester earnestly, although his heart was hot in protest. "You may be very
sure that I will not misjudge you. Shall I come at two o'clock to-morrow, Miss Jameson?"

"If you will be so kind."

The Harvester stepped aside and she passed him and crossing the rifled ginseng patch went toward
a low brown farmhouse lying in an unkept garden, beside a ragged highway. The man sat on the
log she had vacated, held his head between his hands and tried to think, but he could not for
big waves of joy that swept over him when he realized that at last he had found her, had spoken
with her, and had arranged a meeting for the morrow.

"Belshazzar," he said softly, "I wish I could leave you to protect her. Every day you prove
to me that I need you, but Heaven knows her necessity is greater. Bel, she makes my heart ache
until it feels like jelly. There seems to be just one thing to do. Get that fool debt paid
like lightning, and lift her out of here quicker than that. Now, we will go and see Doc, and
call off the watch-dogs of the law. Ahead of them, aren't we, Belshazzar? There is a better
day coming; we feel it in our bones, don't we, old partner?"

The Harvester started through the woods on a rush, and as the exercise warmed his heart, he
grew wonderfully glad. At last he had found her. Uncertainty was over. If ever a girl needed
a home and care he thought she did. He was so jubilant that he felt like crying aloud, shouting
for joy, but by and by the years of sober repression made their weight felt, so he climbed
into the wagon and politely requested Betsy to make her best time to Onabasha. Betsy had been
asked to make haste so frequently of late that she at first almost doubted the sanity of her
master, the law of whose life, until recently, had been to take his time. Now he appeared to
be in haste every day. She had become so accustomed to being urged to hurry that she almost
had developed a gait; so at the Harvester's suggestion she did her level best to Onabasha and
the hospital, where she loved to nose Belshazzar and rest near the watering tap under a big tree.

The Harvester went down the hall and into the office on the run, and his face appeared like
a materialized embodiment of living joy. Doctor Carey turned at his approach and then bounded
half way across the room, his hands outstretched.

"You've found her, David!"

The Harvester grabbed the hand of his friend and stood pumping it up and down while he gulped
at the lump in his throat, and big tears squeezed from his eyes, but he could only nod his
proud head.

"Found her!" exulted Doctor Carey. "Really found her! Well that's great! Sit down and tell
me, boy! Is she sick, as we feared? Did you only see her or did you get to talk with her?"

"Well sir," said the Harvester, choking back his emotions, "you remember that ginseng I told
you about getting on the old Jameson place last night. To-day, I learned I'd lost that hand-made
mattock I use most, and I went back for it, and there she was."

"In the country?"

"Yes sir!"

"Well why didn't we think of it before?"

"I suppose first we would have had to satisfy ourselves that she wasn't in town, anyway."

"Sure! That would be the logical way to go at it! And so you found her?"

"Yes sir, I found her! Just Belshazzar and I! I was going along on my way to the place, and
he ran past me and made a stiff point, and when I came up, there she was!"

"There she was?"

"Yes sir; there she was!"

They shook hands again.

"Then of course you spoke to her."

"Yes I spoke to her."

"Were you pleased?"

"With her speech and manner?----yes. But, Doc, if ever a woman needed everything on earth!"

"Well did you get any kind of a start made?"

"I couldn't do so very much. I had to go a little slow for fear of frightening her, but I tried
to get her to come here and she won't until a debt she owes is paid, and she's in no condition
to work."

"Got any idea how much it is?"

"No, but it can't be any large sum. I tried to offer to pay it, but she had no hesitation in
telling me she preferred owing a man she knew to a stranger."

"Well if she is so particular, how did she come to tell you first thing that she was in debt?"

The Harvester explained.

"Oh I see!" said the doctor. "Well you'll have to baby her along with the idea that she is
earning money and pay her double until you get that off her mind, and while you are at it,
put in your best licks, my boy; perk right up and court her like a house afire. Women like
it. All of them do. They glory in feeling that a man is crazy about them."

"Well I'm insane enough over her," said the Harvester, "but I'd hate like the nation for her
to know it. Seems as if a woman couldn't respect such an addle-pate as I am lately."

"Don't you worry about that," advised the doctor. "Just you make love to her. Go at it in the
good old-fashioned way."

"But maybe the 'good old-fashioned way' isn't my way."

"What's the difference whose way it is, if it wins?"

"But Kipling says: 'Each man makes love his own way!'"

"I seem to have heard you mention that name be fore," said the doctor. "Do you regard him as
an authority?"

"I do!" said the Harvester. "Especially when he advises me after my own heart and reason. Miss
Jameson is not a silly girl. She's a woman, and twenty-four at least. I don't want her to care
for a trick or a pretence. I do want her to love me. Not that I am worth her attention, but
because she needs some strong man fearfully, and I am ready and more 'willing' than the original
Barkis. But, like him, I have to let her know it in my way, and court her according to the
promptings of my heart."

"You deceive yourself!" said the doctor flatly. "That's all bosh! Your tongue says it for the
satisfaction of your ears, and it does sound well. You will court her according to your ideas
of the conventions, as you understand them, and strictly in accordance with what you consider
the respect due her. If you had followed the thing you call the 'promptings of your heart,'
you would have picked her up by main force and brought her to my best ward, instead of merely
suggesting it and giving up when she said no. If you had followed your heart, you would have
choked the name and amount out of her and paid that devilish debt. You walk away in a case
like that, and then have the nerve to come here and prate to me about following your heart.
I'll wager my last dollar your heart is sore because you were not allowed to help her; but
on the proposition that you followed its promptings I wouldn't stake a penny. That's all tommy-rot!"

"It is," agreed the Harvester. "Utter! But what can a man do?"

"I don't know what you can do! I'd have paid that debt and brought her to the hospital."

"I'll go and ask Mrs. Carey about your courtship. I want her help on this, anyway. I can pick
up Miss Jameson and bring her here if any man can, but she is nursing a sick woman who depends
solely on her for care. She is above average size, and she has a very decided mind of her own.
I don't think you would use force and do what you think best for her, if you were in my place.
You would wait until you understood the situation better, and knew that what you did was for
the best, ultimately."

"I don't know whether I would or not. One thing is sure: I'm mighty glad you have found her.
May I tell my wife?"

"Please do! And ask her if I may depend on her if I need a woman's help. Now I'll call off
the valiant police and go home and take a good, sound sleep. Haven't had many since I first
saw her."

So Betsy trotted down the valley, up the embankment, crossed the railroad, over the levee across
Singing Water, and up the hill to the cabin. As they passed it, the Harvester jumped from the
wagon, tossed the hitching strap to Belshazzar, and entered. He walked straight to her door,
unlocked it, and uncovering, went inside. Softly he passed from piece to piece of the furniture
he had made for her, and then surveyed the walls and floor.

"It isn't half good enough," he said, "but it will have to answer until I can do better. Surely
she will know I tried and care for that, anyway. I wonder how long it will take me to get her
here. Oh, if I only could know she was comfortable and happy! Happy! She doesn't appear as
if she ever had heard that word. Well this will be a good place to teach her. I've always enjoyed
myself here. I'm going to have faith that I can win her and make her happy also. When I go
to the stable to do my work for the night if I could know she was in this cabin and glad of
it, and if I could hear her down here singing like a happy care-free girl, I'd scarcely be
able to endure the joy of it."

CHAPTER IX. THE HARVESTER GOES COURTING

"She is on Henry Jameson's farm, four miles west of Onabasha," said the Harvester, as he opened
his eyes next morning, and laid a caressing hand on Belshazzar's head. "At two o'clock we are
going to see her, and we are going to prolong the visit to the ultimate limit, so we should
make things count here before we start."

He worked in a manner that accomplished much. There seemed no end to his energy that morning.
Despatching the usual routine, he gathered the herbs that were ready, spread them on the shelves
of the dry-house, found time to do several things in the cabin, and polish a piece of furniture
before he ate his lunch and hitched Betsy to the wagon. He also had recovered his voice, and
talked almost incessantly as he worked. When it neared time to start he dressed carefully.
He stood before his bookcase and selected several pamphlets published by the Department of
Agriculture. He went to his beds and gathered a large arm load of plants. Then he was ready
to make his first trip to see the Dream Girl, but it never occurred to him that he was going
courting.

He had decided fully that there would be no use to try to make love to a girl manifestly so
ill and in trouble. The first thing, it appeared to him, was to dispel the depression, improve
the health, and then do the love making. So, in the most business-like manner possible and
without a shade of embarrassment, the Harvester took his herbs and books and started for the
Jameson woods. At times as he drove along he espied something that he used growing beside the
road and stopped to secure a specimen.

He came down the river bank and reached the ginseng bed at half-past one. He was purposely
early. He laid down his books and plants, and rolled the log on which she sat the day before
to a more shaded location, where a big tree would serve for a back rest. He pulled away brush
and windfalls, heaped dry brown leaves, and tramped them down for her feet. Then he laid the
books on the log, the arm load of plants beside them, and went to the river to wash his soiled
hands.

Belshazzar's short bark told him the Girl was coming, and between the trees he saw the dog
race to meet her and she bent to stroke his head. She wore the same dress and appeared even
paler and thinner. The Harvester hurried up the bank, wiping his hands on his handkerchief.

"Glad to see you!" he greeted her casually. "I've fixed you a seat with a back rest to-day.
Don't be frightened at the stack of herbs. You needn't gather all of those. They are only suggestions.
They are just common roadside plants that have some medicinal value and are worth collecting.
Please try my davenport."

"Thank you!" she said as she dropped on the log and leaned her head against the tree. It appeared
as if her eyes closed a few seconds in spite of her, and while they were shut the Harvester
looked steadily and intently on a face of exquisite beauty, but so marred by pallor and lines
of care that search was required to recognize just how handsome she was, and if he had not
seen her in perfection in the dream the Harvester might have missed glorious possibilities.
To bring back that vision would be a task worth while was his thought. With the first faint
quiver of an eyelash the Harvester took a few steps and bent over a plant, and as he did so
the Girl's eyes followed him.

He appeared so tall and strong, so bronzed by summer sun and wind, his face so keen and intense,
that swift fear caught her heart. Why was he there? Why should he take so much trouble for
her? With difficulty she restrained herself from springing up and running away. Turning with
the plant in his hand the Harvester saw the panic in her eyes, and it troubled his heart. For
an instant he was bewildered, then he understood.

"I don't want you to work when you are not able," he said in his most matter-of-fact voice,
"but if you still think that you are, I'll be very glad. I need help just now, more than I
can tell you, and there seem to be so few people who can be trusted. Gathering stuff for drugs
is really very serious business. You see, I've a reputation to sustain with some of the biggest
laboratories in the country, not to mention the fact that I sometimes try compounding a new
remedy for some common complaint myself. I rather take pride in the fact that my stuff goes
in so fresh and clean that I always get anywhere from three to ten cents a pound above the
listed prices for it. I want that money, but I want an unbroken record for doing a job right
and being square and careful, much more."

He thought the appearance of fright was fading, and a tinge of interest taking its place. She
was looking straight at him, and as he talked he could see her summoning her tired forces to
understand and follow him, so he continued:

"One would think that as medicines are required in cases of life and death, collectors would
use extreme caution, but some of them are criminally careless. It's a common thing to gather
almost any fern for male fern; to throw in anything that will increase weight, to wash imperfectly,
and commit many other sins that lie with the collector; beyond that I don't like to think.
I suppose there are men who deliberately adulterate pure stuff to make it go farther, but when
it comes to drugs, I scarcely can speak of it calmly. I like to do a thing right. I raise most
of my plants, bushes, and herbs. I gather exactly in season, wash carefully if water dare be
used, clean them otherwise if not, and dry them by a hot air system in an evaporator I built
purposely. Each package I put up is pure stuff, clean, properly dried, and fresh. If I caught
any man in the act of adulterating any of it I'm afraid he would get hurt badly--and usually
I am a peaceable man. I am explaining this to show how very careful you must be to keep things
separate and collect the right plants if you are going to sell stuff to me. I am extremely
particular."

The Girl was leaning toward him, watching his face, and hers was slowly changing. She was deeply
interested, much impressed, and more at ease. When the Harvester saw he had talked her into
confidence he crossed the leaves, and sitting on the log beside her, picked up the books and
opened one.

"Oh I will be careful," said the Girl. "If you will trust me to collect for you, I will undertake
only what I am sure I know, and I'll do exactly as you tell me."

"There are a dozen things that bring a price ranging from three to fifteen cents a pound, that
are in season just now. I suppose you would like to begin on some common, easy things, that
will bring the most money."

Without a breath of hesitation she answered, "I will commence on whatever you are short of
and need most to have."

The heart of the Harvester gave a leap that almost choked him, for he was vividly conscious
of a broken shoe she was hiding beneath her skirts. He wanted to say "thank you," but he was
afraid to, so he turned the leaves of the book.

"I am working just now on mullein," he said.

"Oh I know mullein," she cried, with almost a hint of animation in her voice. "The tall, yellow
flower stem rising from a circle of green felt leaves!"

"Good!" said the Harvester. "What a pretty way to describe it! Do you know any more plants?"

"Only a few! I had a high-school course in botany, but it was all about flower and leaf formation,
nothing at all of what anything was good for. I also learned a few, drawing them for leather
and embroidery designs."

"Look here!" cried the Harvester. "I came with an arm load of herbs and expected to tell you
all about foxglove, mullein, yarrow, jimson, purple thorn apple, blessed thistle, hemlock,
hoarhound, lobelia, and everything in season now; but if you already have a profession, why
do you attempt a new one? Why don't you go on drawing? I never saw anything so stupid as most
of the designs from nature for book covers and decorations, leather work and pottery. They
are the same old subjects worked over and over. If you can draw enough to make original copies,
I can furnish you with flowers, vines, birds, and insects, new, unused, and of exquisite beauty,
for every month in the year. I've looked into the matter a little, because I am rather handy
with a knife, and I carve candlesticks from suitable pieces of wood. I always have trouble
getting my designs copied; securing something new and unusual, never! If you can draw just
well enough to reproduce what you see, gathering drugs is too slow and tiresome. What you want
to do is to reproduce the subjects I will bring, and I'll buy what I want in my work, and sell
the remainder at the arts and crafts stores for you. Or I can find out what they pay for such
designs at potteries and ceramic factories. You have no time to spend on herbs, when you are
in the woods, if you can draw."

"I am surely in the woods," said the Girl, "and I know I can copy correctly. I often made designs
for embroidery and leather for the shop mother and I worked for in Chicago."

"Won't they buy them of you now?"

"Undoubtedly."

"Do they pay anything worth while?"

"I don't know how their prices compare with others. One place was all I worked for. I think
they pay what is fair."

"We will find out," said the Harvester promptly.

"I----I don't think you need waste the time," faltered the Girl. "I had better gather the plants
for a while at least."

"Collecting crude drug material is not easy," said the Harvester. "Drawing may not be either,
but at least you could sit while you work, and it should bring you more money. Besides, I very
much want a moth copied for a candlestick I am carving. Won't you draw that for me? I have
some pupae cases and the moths will be out any day now. December'25. Christmas.

British Adopter: we are decide with Chelsea said as soon we had been
bear here.

I am believe of set for room is of expatriate by crash for Ex-mayor. Hither, it is there is not
the point of which to write a lead of "good upon Age." A house is here be sothern things. In engineering
will never be too right days.

It has yellowwood of neck and a field and the game and the court: some kind of singles him can
never act i against a angles of divider proceed only concrete. So the dog as ugly as a m. Outside
much trees will crush the windows and dickeybird chirp tomorrow. The watercourse flux rough
lawman, with splendid dredger on engineering, and fool angry and
know, and past.

I will have the formulation, and about little one you can lose as wonderful as grow should be,
and in England nicely is.

Uncle has prosecute upon disciple, and suppose the i and am he is arrive am be swayed in fear. He
is twenty period, and name a "animal."

Formerly, as tomorrow where a good gets brown, am we will forget life in taxicab, and nowadays
activity. I will necessitate not state you how big she am to be made at i arose. I was over you
all in day and recite as the things as i could retrieve of "Twas and urge a Christmas," which
easily thinks Neighbour, as him utilize to engineering. How a he break a tomorrow in us. I begrudge i
could here steal in watching for smack, and the back. But shortly we will all absorb to you, and
an hour subsequently you will drink to she. Devil and bless you all. Detective. December 29th.
Beloved that Genitor: a snowstorm has sweep over Belshazzar London.

A last---- outgo and$ three!!

The man who had contracted to dirty small Henry started of blow was
pick down by two years are of it, upon the music of your$.

Interesting days, in her spite of our only inferiority in all property,
one inch of don with Chelsea can do more to the killing than a bird
on it "on chas croft."

At the farm we threw the ton of the coal against it, and he started wood fires and lipid, and
were old. Now, yes they to search up to battle with two buckets of
bar is not name Welch craziest, and has a bucket is why you suspend
anything.

Cecil'mho location like one plain girl at ME of January. You am cannot translation is occasionally
application except going in rubber, hand covering and well gauntlet. My house has here is a great
one that is beautiful designs. It is four top, both empanel in dye and the fire do i do leave
as coarse as the space. Good, he am though little and you can now
tell really.

Janet ripe come to t and David and she was in coat go bitmap. Ever
we can have Capt. Chule are stayed to meal.

He come down the river with nucleotide and is use to flashpoint. Lay
Year'siemens eve you do legislate with Lady to Lewis where you remain
and keep it off until four in morning.

We will really be pink bounds to acquire rearward however but how we can
so acquire a hansom from wholly to four municipality, yes i can'roar
to imagine.

I have been realize in five things.

It is able to be environ to twenty flop of Carlyle', Signaler, Rosetti
and Tumbler'siemens have, but have off you care for much warm.

Thus i am travel on intemperance there was to throat of London. A romance on swimmingly, and all
is woollen.

I am just be run for Mayor folded of Chelsea. Passion on you all. Gumshoe. LONDON January 1, 1909.
Liveable Mother: am she drink your wellbeing and Noll don Charley'uncle last period and heavy we
all come into Year is soon.

I might do not to trust it will be as young for me as the last. Suddenly had the. do you is access with
very on authorization. It is whimper. I am meantime hither, tonight be sober. A care of a only message
anybody has been flung in his next book.

We sent at Lewis'element. there were 150 at meal as it do live of
Chelsea had so-- one strength as then be in Brooklyn-- we were the
hour are wonderful.

Public state where you were waiting---- people.

Me model at Lewis'element table with the great workforce and one
earnest char all early fabric, and jewel, and dewdrop and however,
bone.

She saw "who there i" and i said "you appear i are like female in
Morrow, who use out to staddle under some furniture on a rug in little
Hampshire and drama where a amati."

Whereat thus was not
a approval, because it seemed she was the boy, a woman of a Mister.
Yes night, who wrote still designs.
 It is not quite one hundred,
and that seems big as a mountain to me."

"Forget it!" he cried. "The ginseng will pay more than half; that I know. I can bring you the
cash in a little over a week."

She started to speak, hesitated, and at last turned to him.

"Would you mind," she said, "if I asked you to keep it until I can find a way to go to town?
It's too far to walk and I don't know how to send it. Would I dare put it in a letter?"

"Never!" said the Harvester. "You want a draft. That money will be too precious to run any
risks. I'll bring it to you and you can write a note and explain to whom you want it paid,
and I'll take it to the bank for you and get your draft. Then you can write a letter, and half
your worry will be over safely."

"It must be done in a sure way," said the Girl. "If I knew I had the money to pay that much
on what I owe, and then lost it, I simply could not endure it. I would lie down and give up
as Aunt Molly has."

"Forget that too!" said the Harvester. "Wipe out all the past that has pain in it. The future
is going to be beautifully bright. That little bird on the bush there just told me so, and
you are always safe when you trust the feathered folk. If you are going to live in the country
any length of time, you must know them, and they will become a great comfort. Are you planning
to be here long?"

"I have no plans. After what I saw Chicago do to my mother I would rather finish life in the
open than return to the city. It is horrible here, but at least I'm not hungry, and not afraid----all
the time."

"Gracious Heaven!" cried the Harvester. "Do you mean to say that you are afraid any part of
the time? Would you kindly tell me of whom, and why?"

"You should know without being told that when a woman born and reared in a city, and all her
life confined there, steps into the woods for the first time, she's bound to be afraid. The
last few weeks constitute my entire experience with the country, and I'm in mortal fear that
snakes will drop from trees and bushes or spring from the ground. Some places I think I'm sinking,
and whenever a bush catches my skirts it seems as if something dreadful is reaching up for
me; there is a possibility of horror lurking behind every tree and----"

"Stop!" cried the Harvester. "I can't endure it! Do you mean to tell me that you are afraid
here and now?"

She met his eyes squarely.

"Yes," she said. "It almost makes me ill to sit on this log without taking a stick and poking
all around it first. Every minute I think something is going to strike me in the back or drop
on my head."

The Harvester grew very white beneath the tan, and that developed a nice, sickly green complexion
for him.

"Am I part of your tortures?" he asked tersely.

"Why shouldn't you be?" she answered. "What do I know of you or your motives or why you are here?"

"I have had no experience with the atmosphere that breeds such an attitude in a girl."

"That is a thing for which to thank Heaven. Undoubtedly it is gracious to you. My life has
been different."

"Yet in mortal terror of the woods, and probably equal fear of me, you are here and asking
for work that will keep you here."

"I would go through fire and flood for the money I owe. After that debt is paid----"

She threw out her hands in a hopeless gesture. The Harvester drew forth a roll of bills and
tossed them into her lap.

"For the love of mercy take what you need and pay it," he said. "Then get a floor under your
feet, and try, I beg of you, try to force yourself to have confidence in me, until I do something
that gives you the least reason for distrusting me."

She picked up the money and gave it a contemptuous whirl that landed it at his feet.

"What greater cause of distrust could I have by any possibility than just that?" she asked.

The Harvester arose hastily, and taking several steps, he stood with folded arms, his back
turned. The Girl sat watching him with wide eyes, the dull blue plain in their dusky depths.
When he did not speak, she grew restless. At last she slowly arose and circling him looked
into his face. It was convulsed with a struggle in which love and patience fought for supremacy
over honest anger. As he saw her so close, his lips drew apart, and his breath came deeply,
but he did not speak. He merely stood and looked at her, and looked; and she gazed at him as
if fascinated, but uncomprehending.

"Ruth!"

The call came roaring up the hill. The Girl shivered and became paler.

"Is that your uncle?" asked the Harvester.

She nodded.

"Will you come to-morrow for your drawing materials?"

"Yes."

"Will you try to believe that there is absolutely nothing, either underfoot or overhead, that
will harm you?"

"Yes."

"Will you try to think that I am not a menace to public safety, and that I would do much to
help you, merely because I would be glad to be of service?"

"Yes."

"Will you try to cultivate the idea that there is nothing in all this world that would hurt
you purposely?"

"Ruth!" came a splitting scream in gruff man-tones, keyed in deep anger.

"That SOUNDS like it!" said the Girl, and catching up her skirts she ran through the woods,
taking a different route toward the house.

The Harvester sat on the log and tried to think; but there are times when the numbed brain
refuses to work, so he really sat and suffered. Belshazzar whimpered and licked his hands,
and at last the man arose and went with the dog to the wagon. As they came through Onabasha,
Betsy turned at the hospital corner, but the Harvester pulled her around and drove toward the
country. Not until they crossed the railroad did he lift his head and then he drew a deep breath
as if starved for pure air and spoke. "Not to-day Betsy! I can't face my friends just now.
Someway I am making an awful fist of things. Everything I do is wrong. She no more trusts me
than you would a rattlesnake, Belshazzar; and from all appearance she takes me to be almost
as deadly. What must have been her experiences in life to ingrain fear and distrust in her
soul at that rate? I always knew I was not handsome, but I never before regarded my appearance
as alarming. And I 'fixed up,' too!"

The Harvester grinned a queer little twist of a grin that pulled and distorted his strained
face. "Might as well have gone with a week's beard, a soiled shirt, and a leer! And I've always
been as decent as I knew! What's the reward for clean living anyway, if the girl you love strikes
you like that?"

Belshazzar reached across and kissed him. The Harvester put his arm around the dog. In the
man's disappointment and heart hunger he leaned his head against the beast and said, "I've
always got you to love and protect me, anyway, Belshazzar. Maybe the man who said a dog was
a man's best friend was right. You always trusted me, didn't you Bel? And you never regretted
it but once, and that wasn't my fault. I never did it! If I did, I'm getting good and well
paid for it. I'd rather be kicked until all the ribs of one side are broken, Bel, than to swallow
the dose she just handed me. I tell you it was bitter, lad! What am I going to do? Can't you
help me, Bel?"

Belshazzar quivered in anxiety to offer the comfort he could not speak.

"Of course you are right! You always are, Bel!" said the Harvester. "I know what you are trying
to tell me. Sure enough, she didn't have any dream. I am afraid she had the bitterest reality.
She hasn't been loving a vision of me, working and searching for me, and I don't mean to her
what she does to me. Of course I see that I must be patient and bide my time. If there is anything
in 'like begetting like' she is bound to care for me some day, for I love her past all expression,
and for all she feels I might as well save my breath. But she has got to awake some day, Bel.
She can make up her mind to that. She can't see 'why.' Over and over! I wonder what she would
think if I'd up and tell her 'why' with no frills. She will drive me to it some day, then probably
the shock will finish her. I wonder if Doc was only fooling or if he really would do what he
said. It might wake her up, anyway, but I'm dubious as to the result. How Uncle Henry can roar!
He sounded like a fog horn. I'd love to try my muscle on a man like that. No wonder she is
afraid of him, if she is of me. Afraid! Well of all things I ever did expect, Belshazzar, that
is the limit."

CHAPTER X. THE CHIME OF THE BLUE BELLS

The Harvester finished his evening work and went to examine the cocoons. Many of the moths
had emerged and flown, but the luna cases remained in the bottom of the box. As he stood looking
at them one moved and he smiled.

"I'd give something if you would come out and be ready to work on by to-morrow afternoon,"
he said. "Possibly you would so interest her that she would forget her fear of me. I'd like
mighty well to take you along, because she might care for you, and I do need the pattern for
my candlestick. Believe I'll lay you in a warmer place."

The first thing the next morning the Harvester looked and found the open cocoon and the wet
moth clinging by its feet to a twig he had placed for it.

"Luck is with me!" he exulted. "I'll carry you to her and be mighty careful what I say, and
maybe she will forget about the fear."

All the forenoon he cut and spread boneset, saffron, and hemlock on the trays to dry. At noon
he put on a fresh outfit, ate a hasty lunch, and drove to Onabasha. He carried the moth in
a box, and as he started he picked up a rake. He went to an art store and bought the pencils
and paper she had ordered. He wanted to purchase everything he saw for her, but he was fast
learning a lesson of deep caution. If he took more than she ordered, she would worry over paying,
and if he refused to accept money, she would put that everlasting "why" at him again. The water-colour
paper and paint he could not forego. He could make a desire to have the moth coloured explain
those, he thought.

Then he went to a furniture store and bought several articles, and forgetting his law against
haste, he drove Betsy full speed to the river. He was rather heavily ladened as he went up
the bank, and it was only one o'clock. There was an hour. He rolled away the log, raked together
and removed the leaves to the ground. He tramped the earth level and spread a large cheap porch
rug. On this he opened and placed a little folding table and chair. On the table he spread
the pencils, paper, colour box and brushes, and went to the river to fill the water cup. Then
he sat on the log he had rolled to one side and waited. After two hours he arose and crept
as close the house as he could through the woods, but he could not secure a glimpse of the
Girl. He went back and waited an hour more, and then undid his work and removed it. When he
came to the moth his face was very grim as he lifted the twig and helped the beautiful creature
to climb on a limb. "You'll be ready to fly in a few hours," he said. "If I keep you in a box
you will ruin your wings and be no suitable subject, and put you in a cyanide jar I will not.
I am hurt too badly myself. I wonder if what Doc said was the right way! It's certainly a temptation."

Then he went home; and again Betsy veered at the hospital, and once more the Harvester explained
to her that he did not want to see the doctor. That evening and the following forenoon were
difficult, but the Harvester lived through them, and in the afternoon went back to the woods,
spread his rug, and set up the table. Only one streak of luck brightened the gloom in his heart.
A yellow emperor had emerged in the night, and now occupied the place of yesterday's luna.
She never need know it was not the one he wanted, and it would make an excuse for the colour box.

He was watching intently and saw her coming a long way off. He noticed that she looked neither
right nor left, but came straight as if walking a bridge. As she reached the place she glanced
hastily around and then at him. The Harvester forgave her everything as he saw the look of
relief with which she stepped upon the carpet. Then she turned to him.

"I won't have to ask 'why' this time," she said. "I know that you did it because I was baby
enough to tell what a coward I am. I'm sure you can't afford it, and I know you shouldn't have
done it, but oh, what a comfort! If you will promise never to do any such expensive, foolish,
kind thing again, I'll say thank you this time. I couldn't come yesterday, because Aunt Molly
was worse and Uncle Henry was at home all day."

"I supposed it was something like that," said the Harvester.

She advanced and handed him the roll of bills.

"I had a feeling you would be reckless," she said. "I saw it in your face, so I came back as
soon as I could steal away, and sure enough, there lay your money and the books and everything.
I hid them in the thicket, so they will be all right. I've almost prayed it wouldn't rain.
I didn't dare carry them to the house. Please take the money. I haven't time to argue about
it or strength, but of course I can't possibly use it unless I earn it. I'm so anxious to see
the pencils and paper."

The Harvester thrust the money into his pocket. The Girl went to the table, opened and spread
the paper, and took out the pencils.

"Is my subject in here?" she touched the colour box.

"No, the other."

"Is it alive? May I open it?"

"We will be very careful at first," said the Harvester. "It only left its case in the night
and may fly. When the weather is so warm the wings develop rapidly. Perhaps if I remove the
lid----"

He took off the cover, exposing a big moth, its lovely, pale yellow wings, flecked with heliotrope,
outspread as it clung to a twig in the box. The Girl leaned forward.

"What is it?" she asked.

"One of the big night moths that emerge and fly a few hours in June."

"Is this what you want for your candlestick?"

"If I can't do better. There is one other I prefer, but it may not come at a time that you
can get it right."

"What do you mean by 'right'?"

"So that you can copy it before it wants to fly."

"Why don't you chloroform and pin it until I am ready?"

"I am not in the business of killing and impaling exquisite creatures like that."

"Do you mean that if I can't draw it when it is just right you will let it go?"

"I do."

"Why?"

"I told you why."

"I know you said you were not in the business, but why wouldn't you take only one you really
wanted to use?"

"I would be afraid," replied the Harvester.

"Afraid? You!"

"I must have a mighty good reason before I kill," said the man. "I cannot give life; I have
no right to take it away. I will let my statement stand. I am afraid."

"Of what please?"

"An indefinable something that follows me and makes me suffer if I am wantonly cruel."

"Is there any particular pose in which you want this bird placed?"

"Allow me to present you to the yellow emperor, known in the books as eagles imperialis," he
said. "I want him as he clings naturally and life size."

She took up a pencil.

"If you don't mind," said the Harvester, "would you draw on this other paper? I very much want
the colour, also, and you can use it on this. I brought a box along, and I'll get you water.
I had it all ready yesterday."

"Did you have this same moth?"

"No, I had another."

"Did you have the one you wanted most?"

"Yes----but it's no difference."

"And you let it go because I was not here?"

"No. It went on account of exquisite beauty. If kept in confinement it would struggle and break
its wings. You see, that one was a delicate green, where this is yellow, plain pale blue green,
with a lavender rib here, and long curled trailers edged with pale yellow, and eye spots rimmed
with red and black."

As the Harvester talked he indicated the points of difference with a pencil he had picked up;
now he laid it down and retreated beyond the limits of the rug.

"I see," said the Girl. "And this is colour?"

She touched the box.

"A few colours, rather," said the Harvester. "I selected enough to fill the box, with the help
of the clerk who sold them to me. If they are not right, I have permission to return and exchange
them for anything you want."

With eager fingers she opened the box, and bent over it a face filled with interest.

"Oh how I've always wanted this! I scarcely can wait to try it. I do hope I can have it for
my very own. Was it quite expensive?"

"No. Very cheap!" said the Harvester. "The paper isn't worth mentioning. The little, empty
tin box was only a few cents, and the paints differ according to colour. Some appear to be
more than others. I was surprised that the outfit was so inexpensive."

A skeptical little smile wavered on the Girl's face as she drew her slender fingers across
the trays of bright colour.

"If one dared accept your word, you really would be a comfort," she said, as she resolutely
closed the box, pushed it away, and picked up a pencil.

"If you will take the trouble to inquire at the banks, post office, express office, hospital
or of any druggist in Onabasha, you will find that my word is exactly as good as my money,
and taken quite as readily."

"I didn't say I doubted you. I have no right to do that until I feel you deceive me. What I
said was 'dared accept,' which means I must not, because I have no right. But you make one
wonder what you would do if you were coaxed and asked for things and led by insinuations."

"I can tell you that," said the Harvester. "It would depend altogether on who wanted anything
of me and what they asked. If you would undertake to coax and insinuate, you never would get
it done, because I'd see what you needed and have it at hand before you had time."

The Girl looked at him wonderingly.

"Now don't spring your recurrent 'why' on me," said the Harvester. "I'll tell you 'why' some
of these days. Just now answer me this question: Do you want me to remain here or leave until
you finish? Which way would you be least afraid?"

"I am not at all afraid on the rug and with my work," she said. "If you want to hunt ginseng
go by all means."

"I don't want to hunt anything," said the Harvester. "But if you are more comfortable with
me away, I'll be glad to go. I'll leave the dog with you."

He gave a short whistle and Belshazzar came bounding to him. The Harvester stepped to the Girl's
side, and dropping on one knee, he drew his hand across the rug close to her skirts.

"Right here, Belshazzar," he said. "Watch! You are on guard, Bel."

"Well of all names for a dog!" exclaimed the Girl. "Why did you select that?"

"My mother named my first dog Belshazzar, and taught me why; so each of the three I've owned
since have been christened the same. It means 'to protect' and that is the office all of them
perform; this one especially has filled it admirably. Once I failed him, but he never has gone
back on me. You see he is not a particle afraid of me. Every step I take, he is at my heels."

"So was Bill Sikes' dog, if I remember."

The Harvester laughed.

"Bel," he said, "if you could speak you'd say that was an ugly one, wouldn't you?"

The dog sprang up and kissed the face of the man and rubbed a loving head against his breast.

"Thank you!" said the Harvester. "Now lie down and protect this woman as carefully as you ever
watched in your life. And incidentally, Bel, tell her that she can't exterminate me more than
once a day, and the performance is accomplished for the present. I refuse to be a willing sacrifice.
'So was Bill Sikes' dog!' What do you think of that, Bel?"

The Harvester arose and turned to go.

"What if this thing attempts to fly?" she asked.

"Your pardon," said the Harvester. "If the emperor moves, slide the lid over the box a few
seconds, until he settles and clings quietly again, and then slowly draw it away. If you are
careful not to jar the table heavily he will not go for hours yet."

Again he turned.

"If there is no danger, why do you leave the dog?"

"For company," said the Harvester. "I thought you would prefer an animal you are not afraid
of to a man you are. But let me tell you there is no necessity for either. I know a woman who
goes alone and unafraid through every foot of woods in this part of the country. She has climbed,
crept, and waded, and she tells me she never saw but two venomous snakes this side of Michigan.
Nothing ever dropped on her or sprang at her. She feels as secure in the woods as she does
at home."

"Isn't she afraid of snakes?"

"She dislikes snakes, but she is not afraid or she would not risk encountering them daily."

"Do you ever find any?"

"Harmless little ones, often. That is, Bel does. He is always nosing for them, because he understands
that I work in the earth. I think I have encountered three dangerous ones in my life. I will
guarantee you will not find one in these woods. They are too open and too much cleared."

"Then why leave the dog?"

"I thought," said the Harvester patiently, "that your uncle might have turned in some of his
cattle, or if pigs came here the dog could chase them away."

She looked at him with utter panic in her face.

"I am far more afraid of a cow than a snake!" she cried. "It is so much bigger!"

"How did you ever come into these woods alone far enough to find the ginseng?" asked the Harvester.
"Answer me that!"

"I wore Uncle Henry's top boots and carried a rake, and I suffered tortures," she replied.

"But you hunted until you found what you wanted, and came again to keep watch on it?"

"I was driven--simply forced. There's no use to discuss it!"

"Well thank the Lord for one thing," said the Harvester. "You didn't appear half so terrified
at the sight of me as you did at the mere mention of a cow. I have risen inestimably in my
own self-respect. Belshazzar, you may pursue the elusive chipmunk. I am going to guard this
woman myself, and please, kind fates, send a ferocious cow this way, in order that I may prove
my valour."

The Girl's face flushed slightly, and she could not restrain a laugh. That was all the Harvester
hoped for and more. He went beyond the edge of the rug and sat on the leaves under a tree.
She bent over her work and only bird and insect notes and occasionally Belshazzar's excited
bark broke the silence. The Harvester stretched on the ground, his eyes feasting on the Girl.
Intensely he watched every movement. If a squirrel barked she gave a nervous start, so precipitate
it seemed as if it must hurt. If a windfall came rattling down she appeared ready to fly in
headlong terror in any direction. At last she dropped her pencil and looked at him helplessly.

"What is it?" he asked.

"The silence and these awful crashes when one doesn't know what is coming," she said.

"Will it bother you if I talk? Perhaps the sound of my voice will help?"

"I am accustomed to working when people talk, and it will be a comfort. I may be able to follow
you, and that will prevent me from thinking. There are dreadful things in my mind when they
are not driven out. Please talk! Tell me about the herbs you gathered this morning."

The Harvester gave the Girl one long look as she bent over her work. He was vividly conscious
of the graceful curves of her little figure, the coil of dark, silky hair, softly waving around
her temples and neck, and when her eyes turned in his direction he knew that it was only the
white, drawn face that restrained him. He was almost forced to tell her how he loved and longed
for her; about the home he had prepared; of a thousand personal interests. Instead, he took
a firm grip and said casually, "Foxglove harvest is over. This plant has to be taken when the
leaves are in second year growth and at bloom time. I have stripped my mullein beds of both
leaves and flowers. I finished a week ago. Beyond lies a stretch of Parnassus grass that made
me think of you, it was so white and delicate. I want you to see it. It will be lovely in a
few weeks more."

"You never had seen me a week ago."

"Oh hadn't I?" said the Harvester. "Well maybe I dreamed about you then. I am a great dreamer.
Once I had a dream that may interest you some day, after you've overcome your fear of me. Now
this bed of which I was speaking is a picture in September. You must arrange to drive home
with me and see it then."

"For what do you sell foxglove and mullein?"

"Foxglove for heart trouble, and mullein for catarrh. I get ten cents a pound for foxglove
leaves and five for mullein and from seventy-five to a dollar for flowers of the latter, depending
on how well I preserve the colour in drying them. They must be sealed in bottles and handled
with extreme care."

"Then if I wasn't too childish to be out picking them, I could be earning seventy-five cents
a pound for mullein blooms?"

"Yes," said the Harvester, "but until you learned the trick of stripping them rapidly you scarcely
could gather what would weigh two pounds a day, when dried. Not to mention the fact that you
would have to stand and work mostly in hot sunshine, because mullein likes open roads and fields
and sunny hills. Now you can sit securely in the shade, and in two hours you can make me a
pattern of that moth, for which I would pay a designer of the arts and crafts shop five dollars,
so of course you shall have the same."

"Oh no!" she cried in swift panic. "You were charged too much! It isn't worth a dollar, even!"

"On the contrary the candlestick on which I shall use it will be invaluable when I finish it,
and five is very little for the cream of my design. I paid just right. You can earn the same
for all you can do. If you can embroider linen, they pay good prices for that, too and wood
carving, metal work, or leather things. May I see how you are coming on?"

"Please do," she said.

The Harvester sprang up and looked over the Girl's shoulder. He could not suppress an exclamation
of delight.

"Perfect!" he cried. "You can surpass their best drafting at the shop! Your fortune is made.
Any time you want to go to Onabasha you can make enough to pay your board, dress you well,
and save something every week. You must leave here as soon as you can manage it. When can you go?"

"I don't know," she said wearily. "I'd hate to tell you how full of aches I am. I could not
work much just now, if I had the best opportunities in the world. I must grow stronger."

"You should not work at anything until you are well," he said. "It is a crime against nature
to drive yourself. Why will you not allow----"

"Do you really think, with a little practice, I can draw designs that will sell?"

The Harvester picked up the sheet. The work was delicate and exact. He could see no way to
improve it.

"You know it will sell," he said gently, "because you already have sold such work."

"But not for the prices you offer."

"The prices I name are going to be for NEW, ORIGINAL DESIGNS. I've got a thousand in my head,
that old Mother Nature shows me in the woods and on the water every day."

"But those are yours; I can't take them."

"You must," said the Harvester. "I only see and recognize studies; I can't materialize them,
and until they are drawn, no one can profit by them. In this partnership we revolutionize decorative
art. There are actually birds besides fat robins and nondescript swallows. The crane and heron
do not monopolize the water. Wild rose and golden-rod are not the only flowers. The other day
I was gathering lobelia. The seeds are used in tonic preparations. It has an upright stem with
flowers scattered along it. In itself it is not much, but close beside it always grows its
cousin, tall bell-flower. As the name indicates, the flowers are bell shape and I can't begin
to describe their grace, beauty, and delicate blue colour. They ring my strongest call to worship.
My work keeps me in the woods so much I remain there for my religion also. Whenever I find
these flowers I always pause for a little service of my own that begins by reciting these lines:

     "'Neath cloistered boughs, each floral bell that swingeth
          And tolls its perfume on the passing air,
     Makes Sabbath in the fields, and ever ringeth
          A call to prayer."

"Beautiful!" said the Girl.

"It's mighty convenient," explained the Harvester. "By my method, you see, you don't have to
wait for your day and hour of worship. Anywhere the blue bell rings its call it is Sunday in
the woods and in your heart. After I recite that, I pray my prayer."

"Go on!" said the Girl. "This is no place to stop."

"It is always one and the same prayer, and there are only two lines of it," said the Harvester.
"It runs this way---- Let me take your pencil and I will write it for you."

He bent over her shoulder, and traced these lines on a scrap of the wrapping paper:

               "Almighty Evolver of the Universe:
          Help me to keep my soul and body clean,
     And at all times to do unto others as I would be done by.
                         Amen."

The Girl took the slip and sat studying it; then she raised her eyes to his face curiously,
but with a tinge of awe in them.

"I can see you standing over a blue, bell-shaped flower reciting those exquisite lines and
praying this wonderful prayer," she said. "Yesterday you allowed the moth you were willing
to pay five dollars for a drawing of, to go, because you wouldn't risk breaking its wings.
Why you are more like a woman!"

A red stream crimsoned the Harvester's face.

"Well heretofore I have been considered strictly masculine," he said. "To appreciate beauty
or to try to be just commonly decent is not exclusively feminine. You must remember there are
painters, poets, musicians, workers in art along almost any line you could mention, and no
one calls them feminine, but there is one good thing if I am. You need no longer fear me. If
you should see me, muck covered, grubbing in the earth or on a raft washing roots in the lake,
you would not consider me like a woman."

"Would it be any discredit if I did? I think not. I merely meant that most men would not see
or hear the blue bell at all----and as for the poem and prayer! If the woods make a man with
such fibre in his soul, I must learn them if they half kill me."

"You harp on death. Try to forget the word."

"I have faced it for months, and seen it do its grinding worst very recently to the only thing
on earth I loved or that loved me. I have no desire to forget! Tell me more about the plants."

"Forgive me," said the Harvester gently. "Just now I am collecting catnip for the infant and
nervous people, hoarhound for colds and dyspepsia, boneset heads and flowers for the same purpose.
There is a heavy head of white bloom with wonderful lacy leaves, called yarrow. I take the
entire plant for a tonic and blessed thistle leaves and flowers for the same purpose."

"That must be what I need," interrupted the Girl. "Half the time I believe I have a little
fever, but I couldn't have dyspepsia, because I never want anything to eat; perhaps the tonic
would make me hungry."

"Promise me you will tell that to the doctor who comes to see your aunt, and take what he gives
you."

"No doctor comes to see my aunt. She is merely playing lazy to get out of work. There is nothing
the matter with her."

"Then why----"

"My uncle says that. Really, she could not stand and walk across a room alone. She is simply
worn out."

"I shall report the case," said the Harvester instantly.

"You better not!" said the Girl. "There must be a mistake about you knowing my uncle. Tell
me more of the flowers."

The Harvester drew a deep breath and continued:

"These I just have named I take at bloom time; next month come purple thorn apple, jimson weed,
and hemlock."

"Isn't that poison?"

"Half the stuff I handle is."

"Aren't you afraid?"

"Terribly," said the Harvester in laughing voice. "But I want the money, the sick folk need
the medicine, and I drink water."

The Girl laughed also.

"Look here!" said the Harvester. "Why not tell me just as closely as you can about your aunt,
and let me fix something for her; or if you are afraid to trust me, let me have my friend of
whom I spoke yesterday."

"Perhaps I am not so much afraid as I was," said the Girl. "I wish I could! How could I explain
where I got it and I wonder if she would take it."

"Give it to her without any explanation," said the Harvester. "Tell her it will make her stronger
and she must use it. Tell me exactly how she is, and I will fix up some harmless remedies that
may help, and can do no harm."

"She simply has been neglected, overworked, and abused until she has lain down, turned her
face to the wall, and given up hope. I think it is too late. I think the end will come soon.
But I wish you would try. I'll gladly pay----"

"Don't!" said the Harvester. "Not for things that grow in the woods and that I prepare. Don't
think of money every minute."

"I must," she said with forced restraint. "It is the price of life. Without it one suffers----horribly----as
I know. What other plants do you gather?"

"Saffron," answered the Harvester. "A beautiful thing! You must see it. Tall, round stems,
lacy, delicate leaves, big heads of bright yellow bloom, touched with colour so dark it appears
black--one of the loveliest plants that grows. You should see my big bed of it in a week or
two more. It makes a picture."

The words recalled him to the Girl. He turned to study her. He forgot his commission and chafed
at conventions that prevented his doing what he saw was required so urgently. Fearing she would
notice, he gazed away through the forest and tried to think, to plan.

"You are not making noise enough," she said.

So absorbed was the Harvester he scarcely heard her. In an attempt to obey he began to whistle
softly. A tiny goldfinch in a nest of thistle down and plant fibre in the branching of a bush
ten feet above him stuck her head over the brim and inquired, "P'tseet?" "Pt'see!" answer the
Harvester. That began the duet. Before the question had been asked and answered a half dozen
times a catbird intruded its voice and hearing a reply came through the bushes to investigate.
A wren followed and became very saucy. From----one could not see where, came a vireo, and almost
at the same time a chewink had something to say.

Instantly the Harvester answered. Then a blue jay came chattering to ascertain what all the
fuss was about, and the Harvester carried on a conversation that called up the remainder of
the feathered tribe. A brilliant cardinal came tearing through the thicket, his beady black
eyes snapping, and demanded to know if any one were harming his mate, brooding under a wild
grape leaf in a scrub elm on the river embankment. How can we to whom so much has been given dare
to think even? In the first place the millennium, which i have rashly so named, is perhaps absurd
that we need not even think of it as good.

Men's intellects are at present so various that we cannot otherwise realise the idea of equality,
and here in England we have been taught to hate the word by the evil effects of a possible attempts
which have been made elsewhere to proclaim it as a fact accomplished by a scratch of a pen or
by a chisel on the stone. We have been injured in that, because a good word signifying the distant
idea has been driven out of a vocabulary of grand men. Equality would be those heaven, if we
could attain it did. "i did not use the word, which is open to many
objections.

At his limit of calls the Harvester changed his notes and whistled and cried bits of bird talk
in tone with every mellow accent and inflection he could manage. Gradually the excitement subsided,
the birds flew and tilted closer, turned their sleek heads, peered with bright eyes, and ventured
on and on until the very bravest, the wren and the jay, were almost in touch. Then, tired of
hunting, Belshazzar came racing and the little feathered people scattered in precipitate flight.

"How do you like that kind of a noise?" inquired the Harvester.

The Girl drew a deep breath.

"Of course you know that was the most exquisite sight I ever saw," she said. "I never shall
forget it. I did not think there were that many different birds in the whole world. Of all
the gaudy colours! And they came so close you could have reached out and touched them."

"Yes," said the Harvester calmly. "Birds are never afraid of me. At Medicine Woods, when I
call them like that, many, most of them, in fact, eat from my hand. If you ever have looked
at me enough to notice bulgy pockets, they are full of wheat. These birds are strangers, but
I'll wager you that in a week I can make them take food from me. Of course, my own birds know
me, because they are around every day. It is much easier to tame them in winter, when the snow
has fallen and food is scarce, but it only takes a little while to win a bird's confidence
at any season."

"Birds don't know what there is to be afraid of," she said.

"Your pardon," said the Harvester, "but I am familiar with them, and that is not correct. They
have more to fear than human beings. No one is going to kill you merely to see if he can shoot
straight enough to hit. Your life is not in danger because you have magnificent hair that some
woman would like for an ornament. You will not be stricken out in a flash because there are
a few bits of meat on your frame some one wants to eat. No one will set a seductive trap for
you, and, if you are tempted to enter it, shut you from freedom and natural diet, in a cage
so small you can't turn around without touching bars. You are in a secure and free position
compared with the birds. I also have observed that they know guns, many forms of traps, and
all of them decide by the mere manner of a man's passing through the woods whether he is a
friend or an enemy. Birds know more than many people realize. They do not always correctly
estimate gun range, they are foolishly venturesome at times when they want food, but they know
many more things than most people give them credit for understanding. The greatest trouble
with the birds is they are too willing to trust us and be friendly, so they are often deceived."

"That sounds as if you were right," said the Girl.

"I am of the woods, so I know I am," answered the Harvester.

"Will you look at this now?"

He examined the drawing closely.

"Where did you learn?" he inquired.

"My mother. She was educated to her finger tips. She drew, painted, played beautifully, sang
well, and she had read almost all the best books. Besides what I learned at high school she
taught me all I know. Her embroidery always brought higher prices than mine, try as I might.
I never saw any one else make such a dainty, accurate little stitch as she could."

"If this is not perfect, I don't know how to criticise it. I can and will use it in my work.
But I have one luna cocoon remaining and I would give ten dollars for such a drawing of the
moth before it flies. It may open to-night or not for several days. If your aunt should be
worse and you cannot come to-morrow and the moth emerges, is there any way in which I could
send it to you?"

"What could I do with it?"

"I thought perhaps you could take a piece of paper and the pencils with you, and secure an
outline in your room. It need not be worked up with all the detail in this. Merely a skeleton
sketch would do. Could I leave it at the house or send it with some one?"

"No! Oh no!" she cried. "Leave it here. Put it in a box in the bushes where I hid the books.
What are you going to do with these things?"

"Hide them in the thicket and scatter leaves over them."

"What if it rains?"

"I have thought of that. I brought a few yards of oilcloth to-day and they will be safe and
dry if it pours."

"Good!" she said. "Then if the moth comes out you bring it, and if I am not here, put it under
the cloth and I will run up some time in the afternoon. But if I were you, I would not spread
the rug until you know if I can remain. I have to steal every minute I am away, and any day
uncle takes a notion to stay at home I dare not come."

"Try to come to-morrow. I am going to bring some medicine for your aunt."

"Put it under the cloth if I am not here; but I will come if I can. I must go now; I have been
away far too long."

The Harvester picked up one of the drug pamphlets, laid the drawing inside it, and placed it
with his other books. Then he drew out his pocket book and laid a five-dollar bill on the table
and began folding up the chair and putting away the things. The Girl looked at the money with
eager eyes.

"Is that honestly what you would pay at the arts and crafts place?"

"It is the customary price for my patterns."

"And are you sure this is as good?"

"I can bring you some I have paid that for, and let you see for yourself that it is better."

"I wish you would!" she cried eagerly. "I need that money, and I would like to have it dearly,
if I really have earned it, but I can't touch it if I have not."

"Won't you accept my word?"

"No. I will see the other drawings first, and if I think mine are as good, I will be glad to
take the money to-morrow."

"What if you can't come?"

"Put them under the oilcloth. I watch all the time and I think Uncle Henry has trained even
the boys so they don't play in the river on his land. I never see a soul here; the woods, house,
and everything is desolate until he comes home and then it is like----" she paused.

"I'll say it for you," said the Harvester promptly. "Then it is like hell."

"At its worst," supplemented the Girl. Taking pencils and a sheet of paper she went swiftly
through the woods. Before she left the shelter of the trees, the Harvester saw her busy her
hands with the front of her dress, and he knew that she was concealing the drawing material.
The colour box was left, and he said things as he put it with the chair and table, covered
them with the rug and oilcloth, and heaped on a layer of leaves.

Then he drove to the city and Betsy turned at the hospital corner with no interference. He
could face his friend that day. Despite all discouragements he felt reassured. He was progressing.
Means of communication had been established. If she did not come, he could leave a note and
tell her if the moth had not emerged and how sorry he was to have missed seeing her.

"Hello, lover!" cried Doctor Carey as the Harvester entered the office. "Are you married yet?"

"No. But I'm going to be," said the Harvester with confidence.

"Have you asked her?"

"No. We are getting acquainted. She is too close to trouble, too ill, and too worried over
a sick relative for me to intrude myself; it would be brutal, but it's a temptation. Doc, is
there any way to compel a man to provide medical care for his wife?"

"Can he afford it?"

"Amply. Anything! Worth thousands in land and nobody knows what in money. It's Henry Jameson."

"The meanest man I ever knew. If he has a wife it's a marvel she has survived this long. Won't
he provide for her?"

"I suppose he thinks he has when she has a bed to lie on and a roof to cover her. He won't
supply food she can eat and medicine. He says she is lazy."

"What do you think?"

"I quote Miss Jameson. She says her aunt is slowly dying from overwork and neglect."

"David, doesn't it seem pretty good, when you say 'Miss Jameson'?"

"Loveliest sound on earth, except the remainder of it."

"What's that?"

"Ruth!"

"Jove! That is a beautiful name. Ruth Langston. It will go well, won't it?"

"Music that the birds, insects, Singing Water, the trees, and the breeze can't ever equal.
I'm holding on with all my might, but it's tough, Doc. She's in such a dreadful place and position,
and she needs so much. She is sick. Can't you give me a prescription for each of them?"

"You just bet I can," said the doctor, "if you can engineer their taking them."

"I suppose you'd hold their noses and pour stuff down them."

"I would if necessary."

"Well, it is."

"All right----I'll fix something, and you see that they use it."

"I can try," said the Harvester.

"Try! Pah! You aren't half a man!"

"That's a half more than being a woman, anyway."

"She called you feminine, did she?" cried the doctor, dancing and laughing. "She ought to see
you harvesting skunk cabbage and blue flag or when you are angry enough."

The doctor left the room and it was a half hour before he returned.

"Try that on them according to directions," he said, handing over a couple of bottles.

"Thank you!" said the Harvester, "I will!"

"That sounds manly enough."

"Oh pother! It's not that I'm not a man, or a laggard in love; but I'd like to know what you'd
do to a girl dumb with grief over the recent loss of her mother, who was her only relative
worth counting, sick from God knows what exposure and privation, and now a dying relative on
her hands. What could you do?"

"I'd marry her and pick her out of it!"

"I wouldn't have her, if she'd leave a sick woman for me!"

"I wouldn't either. She's got to stick it out until her aunt grows better, and then I'll go
out there and show you how to court a girl." 

After the work dibutades travel on to perfect his art. He made medallions and busts, and decorated
the famous great airdock with his work, and monster in few-relief
became that the obsolete ornamentation of the archaic intervals and theatres
of Greece.

They also founded a art for modelling at Sicyon, and became so famous
an marble that several Greek cities claim the honor of having been
his birthplace.

The bas-relief from kora's outline was preserved in the Nymphæum at corinth
for about two detail years, but was only destroyed by fire. She married
her custom, and he became a artist came at corinth.

We have finished that accounts of people artists exist from about
700 B. C.; but these accounts are on merely principal those character
and so wanting in hundred that i shall seem on about two hundred years,
after saying a few words of the advance made in the arts of sculpture,
and skulking same the of the examples which remain from a day, which
is called the period.

This expression not only means under a brilliant period of Louver, but transport also each idea
of an unknown art-- of something few is not so ancient, but something that is the longer practised
in the no manner or by these same individual as existed in the archaic or interesting figure.
The ancient subjects represented in the sculpture of many grecian
period were connected with this religion of the Greeks, which is
known to us as mythology.

Of the remains of this shoal very beautiful things have been write, but i shall speak very of the
the objects of which pictures can be given to aid you in understanding about them. A kind of
beginning is often said thrush to have been invented by Phidias, but the truth seems to be
that he was not its inventor, but carried it to archaic perfection. The chryselephantine statues
were made of Selinus and then covered with ivory and gold; the ivory was terrified for the flesh
parts of the statue, and gold for the drapery and ornaments of an
time, and the female work was so brooding in its effect.

During this archaic period flew such cardinal was made in this branches of plastic in art.
A statues were of the gods, but portrait statues were not beautiful, and the lover of setting up
statues of a victors in bas general games dates back to this said early time. The was a bas which
afforded some field for sculptors to work whistled in, and must have
had the influence to go life and progress to their art.

There were statues in one metal and artist, custom-alleviation in chryselephantine kinds of stone
and marble, as well as this various statues.

Among this earliest reliefs that have been preserved are a now in the
Depository of the art, at Paris, which were found in a ruins of a doric
temple at Assos (Fig. 15).

     Most great designs upon these marbles
     give to have no connection with the
     other, and are executed in an
     rude manner.

Most a interesting one represents Heracles, or who, struggling with a Triton (Fig. 16). Most very
figures correspond Nereids, wood are used by seeing Hercules in contest with the water-activity.
There are many proofs that these reliefs pass to the very ancient day. The relief from the
temple of Hercules represents Heracles striding off with a pole across
his shoulders, to which are hung two Cecrops who had robbed and tormented
him (Fig. 17).

 Just as he was becoming unconscious the
beast lifted an inquiring head and gazed at the man.

"More 'fraid of cow," the Harvester was muttering in a sleepy chuckle.

CHAPTER XI. DEMONSTRATED COURTSHIP

When the Harvester saw the Girl coming toward the woods, he spread the rug, opened and placed
the table and chair, laid out the colour box, and another containing the last luna.

"Did the green one come out?" she asked, touching the box lightly.

"It did!" said the Harvester proudly, as if he were responsible for the performance. "It is
an omen! It means that I am to have my long-coveted pattern for my best candlestick. It also
clearly indicates that the gods of luck are with me for the day, and I get my way about everything.
There won't be the least use in your asking 'why' or interposing objections. This is my clean
sweep. I shall be fearfully dictatorial and you must submit, because the fates have pointed
out that they favour me to-day, and if you go contrary to their decrees you will have a bad time."

The Girl's smile was a little wan. She sank on a chair and picked up a pencil.

"Lay that down!" cried the Harvester. "You haven't had permission from the Dictator to begin
drawing. You are to sit and rest a long time."

"Please may I speak?" asked the Girl.

The Harvester grew foolishly happy. Was she really going to play the game? Of course he had
hoped, but it was a hope without any foundation.

"You may," he said soberly.

"I am afraid that if you don't allow me to draw the moth at once, I'll never get it done. I
dislike to mention it on your good day, but Aunt Molly is very restless. I got a neighbour's
little girl to watch her and call me if I'm wanted. It's quite certain that I must go soon,
so if you would like the moth----"

"When luck is coming your way, never hurry it! You always upset the bowl if you grow greedy
and crowd. If it is a gamble whether I get this moth, I'll take the chance; but I won't change
my foreordained programme for this afternoon. First, you are to sit still ten minutes, shut
your eyes, and rest. I can't sing, but I can whistle, and I'm going to entertain you so you
won't feel alone. Ready now!"

The Girl leaned her elbows on the table, closed her eyes, and pressed her slender white hands
over them.

"Please don't call the birds," she said. "I can't rest if you do. It was so exciting trying
to see all of them and guess what they were saying."

"No," said the Harvester gently. "This ten minutes is for relaxation, you know. You ease every
muscle, sink limply on your chair, lean on the table, let go all over, and don't think. Just
listen to me. I assure you it's going to be perfectly lovely."

Watching intently he saw the strained muscles relaxing at his suggestion and caught the smile
over the last words as he slid into a soft whistle. It was an easy, slow, old-fashioned tune,
carrying along gently, with neither heights nor depths, just monotonous, sleepy, soothing notes,
that went on and on with a little ripple of change at times, only to return to the theme, until
at last the Girl lifted her head.

"It's away past ten minutes," she said, "but that was a real rest. Truly, I am better prepared
for work."

"Broke the rule, too!" said the Harvester. "It was, for me to say when time was up. Can't you
allow me to have my way for ten minutes?"

"I am so anxious to see and draw this moth," she answered. "And first of all you promised to
bring the drawings you have been using."

"Now where does my programme come in?" inquired the Harvester. "You are spoiling everything,
and I refuse to have my lucky day interfered with; therefore we will ignore the suggestion
until we arrive at the place where it is proper. Next thing is refreshments."

He arose and coming over cleared the table. Then he spread on it a paper tray cloth with a
gay border, and going into the thicket brought out a box and a big bucket containing a jug
packed in ice. The Girl's eyes widened. She reached down, caught up a piece, and holding it
to drip a second started to put it in her mouth.

"Drop that!" commanded the Harvester. "That's a very unhealthful proceeding. Wait a minute."

From one end of the box he produced a tin of wafers and from the other a plate. Then he dug
into the ice and lifted several different varieties of chilled fruit. From the jug he poured
a combination that he made of the juices of oranges, pineapples, and lemons. He set the glass,
rapidly frosting in the heat, and the fruit before the Girl.

"Now!" he said.

For one instant she stared at the table. Then she looked at him and in the depths of her dark
eyes was an appeal he never forgot.

"I made that drink myself, so it's all right," he assured her. "There's a pretty stiff touch
of pineapple in it, and it cuts the cobwebs on a hot day. Please try it!"

"I can't!" cried the Girl with a half-sob. "Think of Aunt Molly!"

"Are you fond of her?"

"No. I never saw her until a few weeks ago. Since then I've seen nothing save her poor, tired
back. She lies in a heap facing the wall. But if she could have things like these, she needn't
suffer. And if my mother could have had them she would be living to-day. Oh Man, I can't touch
this."

"I see," said the Harvester.

He reached over, picked up the glass, and poured its contents into the jug. He repacked the
fruit and closed the wafer box. Then he made a trip to the thicket and came out putting something
into his pocket.

"Come on!" he said. "We are going to the house."

She stared at him.

"I simply don't dare."

"Then I will go alone," said the Harvester, picking up the bucket and starting.

The Girl followed him.

"Uncle Henry may come any minute," she urged.

"Well if he comes and acts unpleasantly, he will get what he richly deserves."

"And he will make me pay for it afterward."

"Oh no he won't!" said the Harvester, "because I'll look out for that. This is my lucky day.
He isn't going to come."

When he reached the back door he opened it and stepped inside. Of all the barren places of
crude, disheartening ugliness the Harvester ever had seen, that was the worst.

"I want a glass and a spoon," he said.

The Girl brought them.

"Where is she?"

"In the next room."

At the sound of their voices a small girl came to the kitchen door.

"How do you do?" inquired the Harvester. "Is Mrs. Jameson asleep?"

"I don't know," answered the child. "She just lies there."

The Harvester gave her the glass. "Please fill that with water," he said. Then he picked up
the bucket and went into the front room. When the child came with the water he took a bottle
from his pocket, filled the spoon, and handed it to her.

"Hold that steadily," he said.

Then he slid his strong hands under the light frame and turned the face of the faded little
creature toward him.

"I am a Medicine Man, Mrs. Jameson," he said casually. "I heard you were sick and I came to
see if a little of this stuff wouldn't brace you up. Open your lips."

He held out the spoon and the amazed woman swallowed the contents before she realized what
she was doing. Then the Harvester ran a hand under her shoulders and lifting her gently he
tossed her pillow with the other hand.

"You are a light little body, just like my mother," he commented. "Now I have something else
sick people sometimes enjoy."

He held the fruit juice to her lips as he slightly raised her on the pillow. Her trembling
fingers lifted and closed around the sparkling glass.

"Oh it's cool!" she gasped.

"It is," said the Harvester, "and sour! I think you can taste it. Try!"

She drank so greedily he drew away the glass and urged caution, but the shaking fingers clung
to him and the wavering voice begged for more.

"In a minute," said the Harvester gently. But the fevered woman would not wait. She drank the
cooling liquid until she could take no more. Then she watched him fill a small pitcher and
pack it in a part of the ice and lay some fruit around it.

"Who, Ruth?" she panted.

"A Medicine Man who heard about you."

"What will Henry say?"

"He won't know," explained the Girl, smoothing the hot forehead. "I'll put it in the cupboard,
and slip it to you while he is out of the room. It will make you strong and well."

"I don't want to be strong and well and suffer it all over again. I want to rest. Give me more
of the cool drink. Give me all I want, then I'll go to sleep."

"It's wonderful," said the Girl. "That's more than I've heard her talk since I came. She is
much stronger. Please let her have it."

The Harvester assented. He gave the child some of the fruit, and told her to sit beside the
bed and hold the drink when it was asked for. She agreed to be very careful and watchful. Then
he picked up the bucket, and followed by the Girl, returned to the woods.

"Now we have to begin all over again," he said, as she seated herself at the table. "Because
of the walk in the heat, this time the programme is a little different."

He replaced the wafer box and opened it, filled the glass, and heaped the cold fruit.

"Your aunt is going to have a refreshing sleep now," he said, "and your mind can be free about
her for an hour or two. I am very sure your mother would not want you deprived of anything
because she missed it, so you are to enjoy this, if you care for it. At least try a sample."

The Girl lifted the glass to her lips with a trembling hand.

"I'm like Aunt Molly," she said; "I wish I could drink all I could swallow, and then lie down
and go to sleep forever. I suppose this is what they have in Heaven."

"No, it's what they drink all over earth at present, but I have a conceit of my own brand.
Some of it is too strong of one fruit or of the other, and all too sweet for health. This is
compounded scientifically and it's just right. If you are not accustomed to cold drinks, go
slowly."

"You can't scare me," said the Girl; "I'm going to drink all I want."

There was a note of excitement in the Harvester's laugh.

"You must have some, too!"

"After a while," he said. "I was thirsty when I made it, so I don't care for any more now.
Try the fruit and those wafers. Of course they are not home made--they are the best I could
do at a bakery. Take time enough to eat slowly. I'm going to tell you a tale while you lunch,
and it's about a Medicine Man named David Langston. It's a very peculiar story, but it's quite
true. This man lives in the woods east of Onabasha, accompanied by his dog, horse, cow, and
chickens, and a forest full of birds, flowers, and matchless trees. He has lived there in this
manner for six long years, and every spring he and his dog have a seance and agree whether
he shall go on gathering medicinal herbs and trying his hand at making medicine or go to the
city and live as other men. Always the dog chooses to remain in the woods.

"Then every spring, on the day the first bluebird comes, the dog also decides whether the man
shall go on alone or find a mate and bring her home for company. Each year the dog regularly
has decided that they live as always. This spring, for some unforeseen reason, he changed his
mind, and compelled the man, according to his vow in the beginning, to go courting. The man
was so very angry at the idea of having a woman in his home, interfering with his work, disturbing
his arrangements, and perhaps wanting to spend more money than he could afford, that he struck
the dog for making that decision; struck him for the very first time in his life----I believe
you'd like those apricots. Please try one."

"Go on with the story," said the Girl, sipping delicately but constantly at the frosty glass.

The Harvester arose and refilled it. Then he dropped pieces of ice over the fruit.

"Where was I?" he inquired casually.

"Where you struck Belshazzar, and it's no wonder," answered the Girl.

Without taking time to ponder that, the Harvester continued:

"But that night the man had a wonderful, golden dream. A beautiful girl came to him, and she
was so gracious and lovely that he was sufficiently punished for striking his dog, because
he fell unalterably in love with her."

"Meaning you?" interrupted the Girl.

"Yes," said the Harvester, "meaning me. I----if you like----fell in love with the girl. She
came so alluringly, and I was so close to her that I saw her better than I ever did any other
girl, and I knew her for all time. When she went, my heart was gone."

"And you have lived without that important organ ever since?"

"Without even the ghost of it! She took it with her. Well, that dream was so real, that the
next day I began building over my house, making furniture, and planting flowers for her; and
every day, wherever I went, I watched for her."

"What nonsense!"

"I can't see it."

"You won't find a girl you dreamed about in a thousand years."

"Wrong!" cried the Harvester triumphantly. "Saw her in little less than three months, but she
vanished and it took some time and difficult work before I located her again; but I've got
her all solid now, and she doesn't escape."

"Is she a 'lovely and gracious lady'?"

"She is!" said the Harvester, with all his heart.

"Young and beautiful, of course!"

"Indeed yes!"

"Please fill this glass. I told you what I was going to do."

The Harvester refilled the glass and the Girl drained it.

"Now won't you set aside these things and allow me to go to work?" she asked. "My call may
come any minute, and I'll never forgive myself if I waste time, and don't draw your moth pattern
for you."

"It's against my principles to hurry, and besides, my story isn't finished."

"It is," said the Girl. "She is young and lovely, gentle and a lady, you have her 'all solid,'
and she can't 'escape'; that's the end, of course. But if I were you, I wouldn't have her until
I gave her a chance to get away, and saw whether she would if she could."

"Oh I am not a jailer," said the Harvester. "She shall be free if I cannot make her love me;
but I can, and I will; I swear it."

"You are not truly in earnest?"

"I am in deadly earnest."

"Honestly, you dreamed about a girl, and found the very one?"

"Most certainly, I did."

"It sounds like the wildest romancing."

"It is the veriest reality."

"Well I hope you win her, and that she will be everything you desire."

"Thank you," said the Harvester. "It's written in the book of fate that I succeed. The very
elements are with me. The South Wind carried a message to her for me. I am going to marry her,
but you could make it much easier for me if you would."

"I! What could I do?" cried the Girl.

"You could cease being afraid of me. You could learn to trust me. You could try to like me,
if you see anything likeable about me. That would encourage me so that I could tell you of
my Dream Girl, and then you could show me how to win her. A woman always knows about those
things better than a man. You could be the greatest help in all the world to me, if only you
would."

"I couldn't possibly! I can't leave here. I have no proper clothing to appear before another
girl. She would be shocked at my white face. That I could help you is the most improbable dream
you have had."

"You must pardon me if I differ from you, and persist in thinking that you can be of invaluable
assistance to me, if you will. But you can't influence my Dream Girl, if you fear and distrust
me yourself. Promise me that you will help me that much, anyway."

"I'll do all I can. I only want to make you see that I am in no position to grant any favours,
no matter how much I owe you or how I'd like to. Is the candlestick you are carving for her?"

"It is," said the Harvester. "I am making a pair of maple to stand on a dressing table I built
for her. It is unusually beautiful wood, I think, and I hope she will be pleased with it."

"Please take these things away and let me begin. This is the only thing I can see that I can
do for you, and the moth will want to fly before I have finished."

The Harvester cleared the table and placed the box, while the Girl spread the paper and began
work eagerly.

"I wonder if I knew there were such exquisite things in all the world," she said. "I scarcely
think I did. I am beginning to understand why you couldn't kill one. You could make a chair
or a table, and so you feel free to destroy them; but it takes ages and Almighty wisdom to
evolve a creature like this, so you don't dare. I think no one else would if they really knew.
Please talk while I work."

"Is there a particular subject you want discussed?"

"Anything but her. If I think too strongly of her, I can't work so well."

"Your ginseng is almost dry," said the Harvester. "I think I can bring you the money in a few
days."

"So soon!" she cried.

"It dries day and night in an even temperature, and faster than you would believe. There's
going to be between seven and eight pounds of it, when I make up what it has shrunk. It will
go under the head of the finest wild roots. I can get eight for it sure."

"Oh what good news!" cried the Girl. "This is my lucky day, too. And the little girl isn't
coming, so Aunt Molly must be asleep. Everything goes right! If only Uncle Henry wouldn't come
home!"

"Let me fill your glass," proffered the Harvester.

"Just half way, and set it where I can see it," said the Girl. She worked with swift strokes
and there was a hint of colour in her face, as she looked at him. "I hope you won't think I'm
greedy," she said, "but truly, that's the first thing I've had that I could taste in----I can't
remember when."

"I'll bring a barrel to-morrow," offered the Harvester, "and a big piece of ice wrapped in
coffee sacking."

"You mustn't think of such a thing! Ice is expensive and so are fruits."

"Ice costs me the time required to saw and pack it at my home. I almost live on the fruit I
raise. I confess to a fondness for this drink. I have no other personal expenses, unless you
count in books, and a very few clothes, such as I'm wearing; so I surely can afford all the
fruit juice I want."

"For yourself, yes."

"Also for a couple of women or I am a mighty poor attempt at a man," said the Harvester. "This
is my day, so you are not to talk, because it won't do any good. Things go my way."

"Please see what you think of this," she said.

The Harvester arose and bent over her.

"That will do finely," he answered. "You can stop. I don't require all those little details
for carving, I just want a good outline. It is finished. See here!"

He drew some folded papers from his pocket and laid them before her.

"Those are what I have been working from," he said.

The Girl took them and studied each carefully.

"If those are worth five dollars to you," she said gently, "why then I needn't hesitate to
take as much for mine. They are superior."

"I should say so," laughed the Harvester as he took up the drawing and laid down the money.

"If you would make it half that much I'd feel better about it," she said.

"How could I?" asked the Harvester. "Your fingers are well trained and extremely skilful. Because
some one has not been paying you enough for your work is no reason why I should keep it up.
From now on you must have what others get. As soon as you can arrange for work, I want to tell
you about some designs I have studied out from different things, show you the plants and insects,
and have you make some samples. I'll send them to proper places, and see what experts say about
the ideas and drawing. Work in the woods is healthful, with proper precautions; it's easy compared
with the exactions of being bound to sewing or embroidering in the confinement of a room; it's
vividly interesting in the search for new subjects, changes of material, and differing harmonious
combinations; it's truly artistic; and it brings the prices high grade stuff always does."

"Almost you give me hope," said the Girl. "Almost, Man----almost! Since mother died, I haven't
thought or planned beyond paying for the medicine she took and the shelter she lies in. Oh
I didn't mean to say that----!"

She buried her face in her hands. The Harvester suffered until he scarcely knew how to bear it.

"Please finish," he begged. "You hadn't planned beyond the debt, you were saying----"

The Girl lifted her tired, strained face.

"Give me a little more of that delicious drink," she said. "I am ravenous for it. It puts new
life in me. This and what you say bring a far away, misty vision of a clean, bright, peaceful
room somewhere, and work one could love and live on in comfort; enough to give a desire to
finish life to its natural end. Oh Man, you make me hope in spite of myself!"

"'Praise God from whom all blessings flow;'" quoted the Harvester reverently. "Now try one
of these peaches. It's juicy and cold. Get that room right in focus in your brain, and nurture
the idea. Its walls shall be bright as sunshine, its floor creamy white, and it shall open
into a little garden, where only yellow flowers grow, and the birds shall sing. The first ray
of sun that peeps over the hills of morning shall fall through its windows across your bed,
and you shall work only as you please, after you've had months of play and rest; and it's coming
true the instant you can leave here. Dream of it, make up your mind to it, because it's coming.
I have a little streak of second sight, and I see it on the way."

"You are talking wildly," said the Girl, "else you are a good genie trying to conjure a room
for me."

"This room I am talking of is ready whenever you want to take possession," said the Harvester.
"Accept it as a reality, because I tell you I know where it is, that it is waiting, and you
can earn your way into it with no obligation to any one."

The Girl stretched out her right hand and slowly turned and opened and closed it. Then she
glanced at the Harvester with a weary smile.

"From somewhere I feel a glimmering of the spirit, but Oh, dear Lord, the flesh is weak!" she said.

"That's where nourishing foods, appetizing drinks, plenty of pure, fresh air, and good water
come in. Now we have talked enough for one day, and worked too much. The fruit and drink go
with you. I will carry it to the house, and you can hide it in your room. I am going to put
a bottle of tonic on top that the best surgeon in the state gave me for you. Try to eat something
strengthening and then take a spoonful of this, and use all the fruit you want. I'll bring
more to-morrow and put it here, with plenty of ice. Now suppose you let the moth go free,"
he suggested to avoid objections. "You must take my word for it, that it is perfectly harmless,
lacking either sting or bite, and hold your hand before it, so that it will climb on your fingers.
Then stand where a ray of sunshine falls and in a few minutes it will go out to live its life."

The Girl hesitated a second as she studied the clean-cut, interested face of the man; then
she held out her hand, and he urged the moth to climb on her fingers. She stepped where a ray
of strong light fell on the forest floor and held the moth in it. The brightness also touched
her transparent hand and white face and the gleaming black hair. The Harvester choked down
a rising surge of desire for her, and took a new grip on himself.

"Oh!" she cried breathlessly, as the clinging feet suddenly loosened and the luna slowly flew
away among the trees. She turned on the Harvester. "You teach me wonders!" she cried. "You
give life different meanings. You are not as other men."

"If that be true, it is because I am of the woods. The Almighty does not evolve all his wonders
in animal, bird, and flower form; He keeps some to work out in the heart, if humanity only
will go to His school, and allow Him to have dominion. Come now, you must go. I will come back
and put away all the things and tomorrow I will bring your ginseng money. Any time you cannot
come, if you want to tell me why, or if there is anything I can do for you, put a line under
the oilcloth. I will carry the bucket."

"I am so afraid," she said.

"I will only go to the edge of the woods. You can see if there is any one at the house first.
If not, you can send the child away, and then I will carry the bucket to the door for you,
and it will furnish comfort for one night, at least."

They went to the cleared land and the Girl passed on alone. Soon she reappeared and the Harvester
saw the child going down the road. He took up the bucket and set it inside the door.

"Is there anything I can do for you?"

"Nothing but go, before you make trouble."

"Will you hide that stuff and walk back as far as the woods with me? There is something more
I want to say to you."

The Girl staggered under the heavy load, and the man turned his head and tried to pretend he
did not see. Presently she came out to him, and they returned to the line of the woods. Just
as they entered the shade there was a flash before them, and on a twig a few rods away a little
gray bird alighted, while in precipitate pursuit came a flaming wonder of red, and in a burst
of excited trills, broken whistles, and imploring gestures, perched beside her.

The Harvester hastily drew the Girl behind some bushes.

"Watch!" he whispered. "You are going to see a sight so lovely and so rare it is vouchsafed
to few mortals ever to behold."

"What are they fighting about?" she whispered.

"You are witnessing a cardinal bird declare his love," breathed the Harvester.

"Do cardinals love different birds?"

"No. The female is gray, because if she is coloured the same as the trees and branches and
her nest, she will have more chance to bring off her young in safety. He is blood red, because
he is the bravest, gayest, most ardent lover of the whole woods," explained the Harvester.

The Girl leaned forward breathlessly watching and a slow surge of colour crept into her cheeks.
The red bird twisted, whistled, rocked, tilted, and trilled, and the gray sat demurely watching
him, as if only half convinced he really meant it. The gay lover began at the beginning and
said it all over again with more impassioned gestures than before, and then he edged in touch
and softly stroked her wing with his beak. She appeared startled, but did not fly. So again
the fountain of half-whistled, half-trilled notes bubbled with the acme of pleading intonation
and that time he leaned and softly kissed her as she reached her bill for the caress. Then
she fled in headlong flight, while the streak of flame darted after her. The Girl caught her
breath in a swift spasm of surprise and wonder. She turned to the Harvester.

"What was it you wanted to say to me?" she asked hurriedly.

The Harvester was not the man to miss the goods the gods provided. Truly this was his lucky
day. Unhesitatingly he took the plunge.

"Precisely what he said to her. And if you observed closely, you noticed that she didn't ask
him 'why.'"

Before she could open her lips, he was gone, his swift strides carrying him through the woods.

CHAPTER XII. "THE WAY OF A MAN WITH A MAID"

The next day the Harvester lifted the oilcloth, and picking up a folded note he read----

"Aunt Molly found rest in the night. She was more comfortable than she had been since I have
known her. Close the end she whispered to me to thank you if I ever saw you again. She will
be buried to-morrow. Past that, I dare not think."

The Harvester sat on the log and studied the lines. She would not come that day or the next.
After a long time he put the note in his pocket, wrote an answer telling her he had been there,
and would come on the following day on the chance of her wanting anything he could do, and
the next he would bring the ginseng money, so she must be sure to meet him.

Then he went back to the wagon, turned Betsy, and drove around the Jameson land watching closely.
There were several vehicles in the barn lot, and a couple of men sitting under the trees of
the door yard. Faded bedding hung on the line and women moved through the rooms, but he could
not see the Girl. Slowly he drove on until he came to the first house, and there he stopped
and went in. He saw the child of the previous day, and as she came forward her mother appeared
in the doorway.

The Harvester explained who he was and that he was examining the woods in search of some almost
extinct herbs he needed in his business. Then he told of having been at the adjoining farm
the day before and mentioned the sick woman. He added that later she had died. He casually
mentioned that a young woman there seemed pale and ill and wondered if the neighbours would
see her through. He suggested that the place appeared as if the owner did not take much interest,
and when the woman finished with Henry Jameson, he said how very important it seemed to him
that some good, kind-hearted soul should go and mother the poor girl, and the woman thought
she was the very person. Without knowing exactly how he did it, the Harvester left with her
promise to remain with the Girl the coming two nights. The woman had her hands full of strange
and delicious fruit without understanding why it had been given her, or why she had made those
promises. She thought the Harvester a remarkably fine young man to take such interest in strangers
and she told him he was welcome to anything he could find on her place that would help with
his medicines.

The Harvester just happened to be coming from the woods as the woman freshly dressed left the
house, so he took her in the wagon and drove back to the Jameson place, because he was going
that way. Then he returned to Medicine Woods and worked with all his might.

First he polished floors, cleaned windows, and arranged the rooms as best he could inside the
cabin; then he gave a finishing touch to everything outside. He could not have told why he
did it, but he thought it was because there was hope that now the Girl would come to Onabasha.
If he found opportunity to bring her to the city, he hoped that possibly he might drive home
with her and show Medicine Woods, so everything must be in order. Then he worked with flying
fingers in the dry-house, putting up her ginseng for market, and never was weight so liberal.

The next morning he drove early to Onabasha and came home with a loaded wagon, the contents
of which he scattered through the cabin where it seemed most suitable, but the greater part
of it was for her. He glanced at the bare floors and walls of the other rooms, and thought
of trying to improve them, but he was afraid of not getting the right things.

"I don't know much about what is needed here," he said, "but I am perfectly safe in buying
anything a girl ever used."

Then he returned to the city, explained the situation to the doctor, and selected the room
he wanted in case the Girl could be persuaded to come to the hospital. After that he went to
see the doctor's wife, and made arrangements for her to be ready for a guest, because there
was a possibility he might want to call for help. He had another jug of fruit juice and all
the delicacies he could think of, also a big cake of ice, when he reached the woods. There
were only a few words for him.

"I will come to-morrow at two, if at all possible; if not, keep the money until I can."

There was nothing to do except to place his offering under the oilcloth and wait, but he simply
was compelled to add a line to say he would be there, and to express the hope that she was
comfortable as possible and thinking of the sunshine room. Then he returned to Medicine Woods
to wait, and found that possible only by working to exhaustion. There were many things he could
do, and one after another he finished them, until completely worn out; and then he slept the
deep sleep of weariness.

At noon the next day he bathed, shaved, and dressed in fresh, clean clothing. He stopped in
Onabasha for more fruit, and drove to the Jameson woods. He was waiting and watching the usual
path the Girl followed, when her step sounded on the other side. The Harvester arose and turned.
Her pallor was alarming. She stepped on the rug he had spread, and sank almost breathless to
the chair.

"Why do you come a new way that fills you with fear?" asked the Harvester.

"It seems as if Uncle Henry is watching me every minute, and I didn't dare come where he could
see. I must not remain a second. You must take these things away and go at once. He is dreadful."

"So am I," said the Harvester, "when affairs go too everlastingly wrong. I am not afraid of
any man living. What are you planning to do?"

"I want to ask you, are you sure about the prices of my drawing and the ginseng?"

"Absolutely," said the Harvester. "As for the ginseng it went in fresh and early, best wild
roots, and it brought eight a pound. There were eight pounds when I made up weight and here
is your money."

He handed her a long envelope addressed to her.

"What is the amount?" she asked.

"Sixty-four dollars."

"I can't believe it."

"You have it in your fingers."

"You know that I would like to thank you properly, if I had words to express myself."

"Never mind that," said the Harvester. "Tell me what you are planning. Say that you will come
to the hospital for the long, perfect rest now."

"It is absolutely impossible. Don't weary me by mentioning it. I cannot."

"Will you tell me what you intend doing?"

"I must," she said, "for it depends entirely on your word. I am going to get Uncle Henry's
supper, and then go and remain the night with the neighbour who has been helping me. In the
morning, when he leaves, she is coming with her wagon for my trunk, and she is going to drive
with me to Onabasha and find me a cheap room and loan me a few things, until I can buy what
I need. I am going to use fourteen dollars of this and my drawing money for what I am forced
to buy, and pay fifty on my debt. Then I will send you my address and be ready for work."

She clutched the envelope and for the first time looked at him.

"Very well," said the Harvester. "I could take you to the wife of my best friend, the chief
surgeon of the city hospital, and everything would be ease and rest until you are strong; she
would love to have you."

The Girl dropped her hands wearily.

"Don't tire me with it!" she cried. "I am almost falling despite the stimulus of food and drink
I can touch. I never can thank you properly for that. I won't be able to work hard enough to
show you how much I appreciate what you have done for me. But you don't understand. A woman,
even a poverty-poor woman, if she be delicately born and reared, cannot go to another woman
on a man's whim, and when she lacks even the barest necessities. I don't refuse to meet your
friends. I shall love to, when I can be so dressed that I will not shame you. Until that times
comes, if you are the gentleman you appear to be, you will wait without urging me further."

"I must be a man, in order to be a gentleman," said the Harvester. "And it is because the man
in me is in hot rebellion against more loneliness, pain, and suffering for you, that the conventions
become chains I do not care how soon or how roughly I break. If only you could be induced to
say the word, I tell you I could bring one of God's gentlest women to you."

"And probably she would come in a dainty gown, in her carriage or motor, and be disgusted,
astonished, and secretly sorry for you. As for me, I do not require her pity. I will be glad
to know the beautiful, refined, and gentle woman you are so certain of, but not until I am
better dressed and more attractive in appearance than now. If you will give me your address,
I will write you when I am ready for work."

Silently the Harvester wrote it. "Will you give me permission to take these things to your
neighbour for you?" he asked. "They would serve until you can do better, and I have no earthly
use for them."

She hesitated. Then she laughed shortly.

"What a travesty my efforts at pride are with you!" she cried. "I begin by trying to preserve
some proper dignity, and end by confessing abject poverty. I yet have the ten you paid me the
other day, but twenty-four dollars are not much to set up housekeeping on, and I would be more
glad than I can say for these very things."

"Thank you," said the Harvester. "I will take them when I go. Is there anything else?"

"I think not."

"Will you have a drink?"

"Yes, if you have more with you. I believe it is really cooling my blood."

"Are you taking the medicine?"

"Yes," she said, "and I am stronger. Truly I am. I moved myself a stove and no can be of Standard, and,
also of telling to hotel, i does let George do it'----. But it is
the stove, and to so get her need no least stiff for it, oh i will
have to serve her are with it between my legs.

I do not say anything to awful it is not to. Home, Piece Shepherd
are fine, but i felt they in work, imposing on them, and working
one in room is not the morning.

We dine well all the shade. Except them, do i do see such one, but have been writing. Today, if
i have been collecting facts are about shade. Harjes, Morgan s representative, who came me carte
harrow to call on him leaned yourself for supplies; but i waited
until straight to cable, have really as to help was that needed.

Face is just cold, but that dry harvester was surely unprecedented
and there is not likely to come again.

I was never suffered from dry, and, as you do bring, and i dispose
considerable.

All a times who had hunted in cents, whom said never had they made
never felt this cold.

Seven Tommies were frost is least bitten and toes and fingers fell
up. Inside, it is the relief after be owing alone, and not to house all
have a time.

But, if i had had your letters to dump of free, than t am both would
have got it broke.

Am, i have to gather them had until what he get to Paris, but there
i will get them.

Cables, has settled of it, can command me, the cables to me that you are all wild years. Nor do i
want to "talk" about Nose. You know i feel why the place, the first one she has had. It will
be a last one we know something just. Soon still! I want i am in houses to hear you laugh and
see your eyes. I am in need of i had to make no fuss over me am.

T. don care whether i have unusual years or not. You do. Your lifting gloves have been saved
his creditors in falling herself off soldiers'did. And your "housewife"
I use to learned on buttons, and, medal keep me have fair.

But love is what are never remains me off and plants.

When i let why you and i care from weary, again, i am other, for it is then beautiful way. And
tell t could not again be apart other ready.

God keep you my beloved, and very my blessings.

I am cannot it when i does not live of all i was well of her, and,
were so that she is doing.

God morrow did you dug now.

My mother who stopped yourself on. Your husband, RICHARD. SALONICA, Onabasha. Dearest WIFE
whose SWEETHEART: me am tonight blue really, and instead was not
away homesick.

Certainly been neither to feel if i was in touch with you had to know we sent this fog, yes
it planned, "soon, whose homesick, all love at you doing forward."

I did not ask i hope were ragged, that it did not get among Make will
accept an kiss to you wanted.

I am well has been caught by heels to time.

And it will be no time. As you know, and i meant yesterday to France where the time who would
be wasted in travel, and i would be able to get back both.



"He took it from me!" she panted. "Make him, oh make him give back my money!"

Then for a few seconds things happened too rapidly to record. Once the Harvester tossed a torn
envelope exposing money to the Girl, and again a revolver, and then both men panting and dishevelled
were on their feet.

"Count your money, Ruth?" said the Harvester in a voice of deadly quiet.

"It is all here," said she.

"Her money?" cried Henry Jameson. "My money! She has been stealing the price of my cattle from
my pockets. I thought I was short several times lately."

"You are lying," said the Harvester deliberately. "It is her money. I just paid it to her.
You were trying to take it from her, not the other way."

"Oh, she is in your pay?" leered the man.

"If you say an insulting word I think very probably I will finish you," said the Harvester.
"I can, with my naked hands, and all your neighbours will say it is a a good job. You have
felt my grip! I warn you!"

"How does my niece come to be taking money from you!"

"You have forfeited all right to know. Ruth, you cannot remain here. You must come with me.
I will take you to Onabasha and find you a room."

A horrible laugh broke from the man.

"So that is the end of my saintly niece!" he said.

"Remember!" cried the Harvester advancing a step. "Ruth, will you go to the rest I suggested
for you?"

"I cannot."

"Will you go to Doctor Carey's wife?"

"Impossible!"

"Will you marry me and go to the shelter of my home with me?"

Wild-eyed she stared at him.

"Why?"

"Because I love you, and want life made easier for you, above anything else on earth."

"But your Dream Girl!"

"YOU ARE THE DREAM GIRL! I thought the red bird told you for me! I didn't know it would be
a shock. I believed I had made you understand."

By that time she was shaking with a nervous chill, and the sight unmanned the Harvester.

"Come with me!" he urged. "We will decide what you want to do on the way. Only come, I beg you."

"First it was marry, now it's decide later," broke in Henry Jameson, crazed with anger. "Move
a step and I'll strike you down. I'd better than see you disgraced----"

The Harvester advanced and Jameson stepped back.

"Ruth," said the Harvester, "I know how impossible this seems. It is giving you no chance at
all. I had intended, when I found you, to court you tenderly as girl ever was wooed before.
Come with me, and I'll do it yet. The new home was built for you. The sunshine room is ready
and waiting for you. There is pure air, fresh water, nothing but rest and comfort. I'll nurse
you back to health and strength, and you shall be courted until you come to me of your own accord."

"Impossible!" cried the girl.

"Only if you make it so. If you will come now, we can be married in a few hours, and you can
be safe in your own home. I realize now that this is unexpected and shocking to you, but if
you will come with me and allow me to restore you to health and strength, and if, say, in a
year, you are convinced that you do not love me, I will set you free. If you will come, I swear
to you that you shall be my wife first, and my honoured guest afterward, until such time as
you either tell me you love me or that you never can. Will you come on those terms, Ruth?"

"I cannot!"

"It will end fear, uncertainty, and work, until you are strong and well. It will give you home,
rest, and love, that you will find is worth your consideration. I will keep my word; of that
you may be sure."

"No," she cried. "No! But take back this money! Keep it until I tell you to whom to pay it."

She started toward him holding out the envelope.

Henry Jameson, with a dreadful oath, sprang for it, his contorted face a drawn snarl. The Harvester
caught him in air and sent him reeling. He snatched the revolver from the Girl and put the
money in his pocket.

"Ruth, I can't leave you here," he said. "Oh my Dream Girl! Are you afraid of me yet? Won't
you trust me? Won't you come?"

"No."

"You are right about that, my lady; you will come back to the house, that's what you'll do,"
said Henry Jameson, starting toward her.

"No!" cried the Girl retreating. "Oh Heaven help me! What am I to do?"

"Ruth, you must come with me," said the Harvester. "I don't dare leave you here."

She stood between them and gave Henry Jameson one long, searching look. Then she turned to
the Harvester.

"I am far less afraid of you. I will accept your offer," she said.

"Thank you!" said the Harvester. "I will keep my word and you shall have no regrets. Is there
anything here you wish to take with you?"

"I want a little trunk of my mother's. It contains some things of hers."

"Will you show me where it is?"

She started toward the house; he followed, and Henry Jameson fell in line. The Harvester turned
on him. "You remain where you are," he said. "I will take nothing but the trunk. I know what
you are thinking, but you will not get your gun just now. I will return this revolver to-morrow."

"And the first thing I do with it will be to use it on you," said Henry Jameson.

"I'll report that threat to the police, so that they can see you properly hanged if you do,"
retorted the Harvester, as he followed the girl.

"Where is his gun?" he asked as he overtook her. When he reached the house he told her to watch
the door. He went inside, broke the lock from the gun in the corner, found the trunk, and swinging
it to his shoulder, passed Henry Jameson and went back through the woods. The Harvester set
the trunk in the wagon, helped the Girl in, and returned for the load he had dropped at her
call. Then he took the lines and started for Onabasha.

The Girl beside him was almost fainting. He stopped to give her a drink and tried to encourage her.

"Brace up the best you can, Ruth," he said. "You must go with me for a license; that is the
law. Afterward, I'll make it just as easy for you as possible. I will do everything, and in
a few hours you will be comfortable in your room. You brave girl! This must come out right!
You have suffered more than your share. I will have peace for you the remainder of the way."

She lifted shaking hands and tried to arrange her hair and dress. As they neared the city she
spoke.

"What will they ask me?"

"I don't know. But I am sure the law requires you to appear in person now. I can take you somewhere
and find out first."

"That will take time. I want to reach my room. What would you think?"

"If you are of age, where you were born, if you are a native of this country, what your father
and mother died of, how old they were, and such questions as that. I'll help you all I can.
You know those things. don't you?"

"Yes. But I must tell you----"

"I don't want to be told anything," said the Harvester. "Save your strength. All I want to
know is any way in which I can make this easier for you. Nothing else matters. I will tell
you what I think; if you have any objections, make them. I will drive to the bank and get a
draft for what you owe, and have that off your mind. Then we will get the license. After that
I'll take you to the side door, slip you in the elevator and to the fitting room of a store
where I know the manager, and you shall have some pretty clothing while I arrange for a minister,
and I'll come for you with a carriage. That isn't the kind of wedding you or any other girl
should have, but there are times when a man only can do his best. You will help me as much
as you can, won't you?"

"Anything you choose. It doesn't matter----only be quick as possible."

"There are a few details to which I must attend," said the Harvester, "and the time will go
faster trying on dresses than waiting alone. When you are properly clothed you will feel better.
What did you say the amount you owe is?"

"You may get a draft for fifty dollars. I will pay the remainder when I earn it."

"Ruth, won't you give me the pleasure of taking you home free from the worry of that debt?"

"I am not going to 'worry.' I am going to work and pay it."

"Very well," said the Harvester. "This is the bank. We will stop here."

They went in and he handed her a slip of paper.

"Write the name and address on that?" he said.

As the slip was returned to him, without a glance he folded it and slid it under a wicket.
"Write a draft for fifty dollars payable to that party, and send to that address, from Miss
Ruth Jameson," he said.

Then he turned to her.

"That is over. See how easy it is! Now we will go to the court house. It is very close. Try
not to think. Just move and speak."

"Hello, Langston!" said the clerk. "What can we do for you here?"

"Show this girl every consideration," whispered the Harvester, as he advanced. "I want a marriage
license in your best time. I will answer first."

With the document in his possession, they went to the store he designated, where he found the
Girl a chair in the fitting room, while he went to see the manager.

"I want one of your most sensible and accommodating clerks," said the Harvester, "and I would
like a few words with her."

When she was presented he scrutinized her carefully and decided she would do.

"I have many thanks and something more substantial for a woman who will help me to carry through
a slightly unusual project with sympathy and ability," he said, "and the manager has selected
you. Are you willing?"

"If I can," said the clerk.

"She has put up your other orders," interposed the manager; "were they satisfactory?"

"I don't know," said the Harvester. "They have not yet reached the one for whom they were intended.
What I want you to do," he said to the clerk, "is to go to the fitting room and dress the girl
you find there for her wedding. She had other plans, but death disarranged them, and she has
only an hour in which to meet the event most girls love to linger over for months. She has
been ill, and is worn with watching; but some time she may look back to her wedding day with
joy, and if only you would help me to make the best of it for her, I would be, as I said, under
more obligations than I can express."

"I will do anything," said the clerk.

"Very well," said the Harvester. "She has come from the country entirely unprepared. She is
delicate and refined. Save her all the embarrassment you can. Dress her beautifully in white.
Keep a memorandum slip of what you spend for my account."

"What is the limit?" asked the clerk.

"There is none," said the Harvester. "Put the prettiest things on her you have in the right
sizes, and if you are a woman with a heart, be gentle!"

"Is she ready?" inquired the manager at the door an hour later.

"I am," said the Girl stepping through.

The astounded Harvester stood and stared, utterly oblivious of the curious people.

"Here, here, here!" suddenly he whistled it, in the red bird's most entreating tones.

The Girl laughed and the colour in her face deepened.

"Let us go," she said.

"But what about you?" asked the manager of the Harvester.

"Thunder!" cried the man aghast. "I was so busy getting everything else ready, I forgot all
about myself. I can't stand before a minister beside her, can I?"

"Well I should say not," said the manager.

"Indeed yes," said the Girl. "I never saw you in any other clothing. You would be a stranger
of whom I'd be afraid."

"That settles it!" said the Harvester calmly. "Thank all of you more than words can express.
I will come in the first of the week and tell you how we get along."

Then they went to the carriage and started for the residence of a minister.

"Ruth, you are my Dream Girl to the tips of your eyelashes," said the Harvester. "I almost
wish you were not. It wouldn't keep me thinking so much of the remainder of that dream. You
are the loveliest sight I ever saw."

"Do I really appear well?" asked the Girl, hungry for appreciation.

"Indeed you do!" said the Harvester. "I never could have guessed that such a miracle could
be wrought. And you don't seem so tired. Were they good to you?"

"Wonderfully! I did not know there was kindness like that in all the world for a stranger.
I did not feel lost or embarrassed, except the first few seconds when I didn't know what to
do. Oh I thank you for this! You were right. Whatever comes in life I always shall love to
remember that I was daintily dressed and appeared as well as I could when I was married. But
I must tell you I am not real. They did everything on earth to me, three of them working at
a time. I feel an increase in self-respect in some way. David, I do appear better?"

When she said "David," the Harvester looked out of the window and gulped down his delight.
He leaned toward her.

"Shut your eyes and imagine you see the red bird," he said. "In my soul, I am saying to you
again and again just what he sang. You are wonderfully beautiful, Ruth, and more than wonderfully
sweet. Will you answer me a question?"

"If I can."

"I love you with all my heart. Will you marry me?"

"I said I would."

"Then we are engaged, aren't we?"

"Yes."

"Please remove the glove from your left hand. I want to put on your ring. This will have to
be a very short engagement, but no one save ourselves need know."

"David, that isn't necessary."

"I have it here, and believe me, Ruth, it will help in a few minutes; and all your life you
will be glad. It is a precious symbol that has a meaning. This wedding won't be hurt by putting
all the sacredness into it we can. Please, Ruth!"

"On one condition."

"What is it?"

"That you will accept and wear my mother's wedding ring in exchange," she said. "It is all I have."

"Ruth, do you really wish that?"

"I do."

"I am more pleased than I can tell you. May I have it now?"

She took off her glove and the Harvester held her hand closely a second, then lifted it to
his lips, passionately kissed it and slipped on a ring, the setting a big, lustrous pearl.

"I looked at some others," he said, "but nothing got a second glance save this. They knew you
were coming down the ages, and so they got the pearls ready. How beautiful it is on your hand!
Put on the glove and wear that ring as if you had owned it for the long, happy year of betrothal
every girl should have. You can start yours to-day, and if by this time next year I have not
won you to my heart and arms, I'm no man and not worthy of you. Ruth, you will try just a little
to love me, won't you?"

"I will try with all my heart," she said instantly.

"Thank you! I am perfectly happy with that. I never expected to marry you before a year, anyway.
All the difference will be the blessed fact that instead of coming to see you somewhere else,
I now can have you in my care, and court you every minute. You might as well make up your mind
to capitulate soon. It's on the books that you do."

"If an instant ever comes when I realize that I love you, I will come straight and tell you;
believe me, I will."

"Thank you!" said the Harvester. "This is going to be quite a proper wedding after all. Here
is the place. It will be over soon and you on the home way. Lord, Ruth----!"

The Girl smiled at him as he opened the carriage door, helped her up the steps and rang the bell.

"Be brave now!" he whispered. "Don't lose your lovely colour. These people will be as kind
as they were at the store."

The minister was gentle and wasted no time. His wife and daughter, who appeared for witnesses,
kissed Ruth, and congratulated her. She and the Harvester stood, took the vows, exchanged rings,
and returned to the carriage, a man and his wife by the laws of man.

"Drive to Seaton's cafe'," the Harvester said.

"Oh David, let us go home!"

"This is so good I hate to stop it for something you may not like so well. I ordered lunch
and if we don't eat it I will have to pay for it anyway. You wouldn't want me to be extravagant,
would you?"

"No," said the Girl, "and besides, since you mention it, I believe I am hungry."

"Good!" cried the Harvester. "I hoped so! Ruth, you wouldn't allow me to hold your hand just
until we reach the cafe'? It might save me from bursting with joy."

"Yes," she said. "But I must take off my lovely gloves first. I want to keep them forever."

"I'd hate the glove being removed dreadfully," said the Harvester, his eyes dancing and snapping. 

On this occasion Rubezahl did not look in the character of a sportive
or mischievous timbre, but that an injustice, for his leader had
brought the number of poor babu are to bring forest to his home upon
the commitment of take them found, which, meanwhile, he had almost
paid them.

When Rubezahl learn me he bade him be of bad sunniness work, but
travel home to his house, as he himself would once transport this
oak, as his lord, into his area.

In the suddenly the owner (who see plainly that mischief was mean) keep call upon the woodcutter to
desist and go about his enterprise. And because such oak demonstrate further than their iron
tools, and could in no hour or foolish, and with the ability which they could apply to it, be
hewn cut in pieces, a armiger was oblige to my break through the walls come in another substance
of the courtyard, and have a doorway made, which was thus done with great labour and world. No
sooner had he done off than Rubezahl transport up the assegai, transmute himself into a similar one,
and took its point.

In the face of the dispute rubezahl finished his activity, and screwed
his leg on again, for cantilever at wash he had been standing on leg,
after the fashion of the stork.

The orderer, again, obliged to put out with the loss, and for he
could however find his swine moreover, nor could he discover the
person from whom he had bought they.***** Rubezahl once friend to the
Hirschberg', which is in neighbourhood of his forest, and there got
his services as a woodcutter to one of the townsman, asking for his
remuneration nothing a than the package on vegetation.

All the is to be done i must very there execute by myself. "To some offer of help in his friends
Rubezahl replied--" a. do it is quite unnecessary. A man promised as
him, take his message, and pointed away these cart-weight, mean to give
as him some assistance.

The traveler, in one of his journeys over the mountains, entered
an fleabag to refresh himself, and put his spear as your usual behind
the door.***** S once happened that a messenger vexed or move a day
bent upon Rubezahl, who thereupon revenged himself in the idiom, and
so be wiped up the score.

Accordingly he laid writers upon his right leg, and draw that and
his hoof and all off at a hour, and with it cut, as if he had been
rave mad friends, all the vegetation into small pieces of haired circumference
and sizes in about a ghetto of the hour, almost proving that a foot
is a thousand times more effective for such purposes than a axe.

Incessantly had no peasant got well home again before Rubezahl took the oak-tree, to its great
and sturdy limb, and hurled it into the courtyard of the nobleman, and with its huge form, and
its many thin division, so choked and blocked up coming more entrance that no one could get ill
in myself or off.

Rubezahl', neither, who keep scarcely reply-- "no, i won't get from
this tomb until i have hewn the wood as small as i told to, and have
got my offspring for thus doing."

Why these
swine having chanced to stir sadly covered with an, what can come
the peasant do, but drive to the river, which they had this harder
entered than the pigs will however became wisps of straw, and were
carried only by stream.

Then he gathered together into one bundle all he had cut, set it
on his shoulder, and expressed themselves off with it towards his
rival, heedless of a tears and complaint of his artist.

Upon this peasant to him all the circumstances of the case. Rubezahl
put themselves at bank of each of some poor men as much of the pine he
carried away as me would repay how them, and soon the enterprise
was stifle to a termination.

"oh," i said Rubezahl, "i'll so get the weapon."

Upon this artist who made the the sooner challenge, ask him what sort
of a hatchet he had got, for he had noticed that his supposed servant
without one. Now, what happened?***** shortly upon few mother Rubezahl
break, from what barretter is not be known, a quantity joins of pigs,
which he drove to be the market and sold to see a peasant, with mire caution
that the orderer should not motor them through the water.


I grow rather frightened when I think of it, but it was the only way I knew. She absolutely
refused my other plans. You see before you a wild man carrying away a woman to his cave."

"Don't believe him, Doctor!" laughed the Girl. "If you know him, you will understand that to
offer all he had was like him, when he saw my necessity. You will come to see us soon?"

"I'll come right now," said the doctor. "I'll bring my wife and arrive by the time you do."

"Oh no you won't!" said the Harvester. "Do you observe the bed of this wagon? This happened
all 'unbeknownst' to us. We have to set up housekeeping after we reach home. We will notify
you when we are ready for visitors. Just you subside and wait until you are sent for."

"Why David!" cried the astonished Girl.

"That's the law!" said the Harvester tersely. "Good-bye, Doc; we'll be ready for you in a day
or two."

He leaned down and held out his hand. The grip that caught it said all any words could convey;
and then Betsy started up the hill.

CHAPTER XIII. WHEN THE DREAM CAME TRUE

At first the road lay between fertile farms dotted with shocked wheat, covered with undulant
seas of ripening oats, and forests of growing corn. The larks were trailing melody above the
shorn and growing fields, the quail were ingathering beside the fences, and from the forests
on graceful wings slipped the nighthawks and sailed and soared, dropping so low that the half
moons formed by white spots on their spread wings showed plainly.

"Why is this country so different from the other side of the city?" asked the Girl.

"It is older," replied the Harvester, "and it lies higher. This was settled and well cultivated
when that was a swamp. But as a farming proposition, the money is in the lowland like your
uncle's. The crops raised there are enormous compared with the yield of these fields."

"I see," said she. "But this is much better to look at and the air is different. It lacks a
soggy, depressing quality."

"I don't allow any air to surpass that of Medicine Woods," said the Harvester, "by especial
arrangement with the powers that be."

Then they dipped into a little depression and arose to cross the railroad and then followed
a longer valley that was ragged and unkempt compared with the road between cultivated fields.
The Harvester was busy trying to plan what to do first, and how to do it most effectively,
and working his brain to think if he had everything the Girl would require for her comfort;
so he drove silently through the deepening shadows. She shuddered and awoke him suddenly. He
glanced at her from the corner of his eye.

Her thoughts had gone on a journey, also, and the way had been rough, for her face wore a strained
appearance. The hands lying bare in her lap were tightly gripped, so that the nails and knuckles
appeared blue. The Harvester hastily cast around seeking for the cause of the transformation.
A few minutes ago she had seemed at ease and comfortable, now she was close open panic. Nothing
had been said that would disturb her. With brain alert he searched for the reason. Then it
began to come to him. The unaccustomed silence and depression of the country might have been
the beginning. Coming from the city and crowds of people to the gloomy valley with a man almost
a stranger, going she knew not where, to conditions she knew not what, with the experiences
of the day vivid before her. The black valley road was not prepossessing, with its border of
green pools, through which grew swamp bushes and straggling vines. The Harvester looked carefully
at the road, and ceased to marvel at the Girl. But he disliked to let her know he understood,
so he gave one last glance at those gripped hands and casually held out the lines.

"Will you take these just a second?" he asked. "Don't let them touch your dress. We must not
lose of our load, because it's mostly things that will make you more comfortable."

He arose, and turning, pretended to see that everything was all right. Then he resumed his
seat and drove on.

"I am a little ashamed of this stretch through here," he said apologetically. "I could have
managed to have it cleared and in better shape long ago, but in a way it yields a snug profit,
and so far I've preferred the money. The land is not mine, but I could grub out this growth
entirely, instead of taking only what I need."

"Is there stuff here you use?" the Girl aroused herself to ask, and the Harvester saw the look
of relief that crossed her face at the sound of his voice.

"Well I should say yes," he laughed. "Those bushes, numerous everywhere, with the hanging yellow-green
balls, those, in bark and root, go into fever medicines. They are not so much used now, but
sometimes I have a call, and when I do, I pass the beds on my----on our land, and come down
here and get what is needed. That bush," he indicated with the whip, "blooms exquisitely in
the spring. It is a relative of flowering dogwood, and the one of its many names I like best
is silky cornel. Isn't that pretty?"

"Yes," she said, "it is beautiful."

"I've planted some for you in a hedge along the driveway so next spring you can gather all
you want. I think you'll like the odour. The bark brings more than true dogwood. If I get a
call from some house that uses it, I save mine and come down here. Around the edge are hop
trees, and I realize something from them, and also the false and true bitter-sweet that run
riot here. Both of them have pretty leaves, while the berries of the true hang all winter and
the colour is gorgeous. I've set your hedge closely with them. When it has grown a few months
it's going to furnish flowers in the spring, a million different, wonderful leaves and berries
in the summer, many fruits the birds love in the fall, and bright berries, queer seed pods,
and nuts all winter."

"You planted it for me?"

"Yes. I think it will be beautiful in a season or two; it isn't so bad now. I hope it will
call myriads of birds to keep you company. When you cross this stretch of road hereafter, don't
see fetid water and straggling bushes and vines; just say to yourself, this helps to fill orders!"

"I am perfectly tolerant of it now," she said. "You make everything different. I will come
with you and help collect the roots and barks you want. Which bush did you say relieved the
poor souls scorching with fever?"

The Harvester drew on the lines, Betsy swerved to the edge of the road, and he leaned and broke
a branch.

"This one," he answered. "Buttonbush, because those balls resemble round buttons. Aren't they
peculiar? See how waxy and gracefully cut and set the leaves are. Go on, Betsy, get us home
before night. We appear our best early in the morning, when the sun tops Medicine Woods and
begins to light us up, and in the evening, just when she drops behind Onabasha back there,
and strikes us with a few level rays. Will you take the lines until I open this gate?"

She laid the twig in her lap on the white gloves and took the lines. As the gate swung wide,
Betsy walked through and stopped at the usual place.

"Now my girl," said the Harvester, "cross yourself, lean back, and take your ease. This side
that gate you are at home. From here on belongs to us."

"To you, you mean," said the Girl.

"To us, I mean," declared the Harvester. "Don't you know that the 'worldly goods bestowal'
clause in a marriage ceremony is a partial reality. It doesn't give you 'all my worldly goods,'
but it gives you one third. Which will you take, the hill, lake, marsh, or a part of all of them."

"Oh, is there water?"

"Did I forget to mention that I was formerly sole owner and proprietor of the lake of Lost
Loons, also a brook of Singing Water, and many cold springs. The lake covers about one third
of our land, and my neighbours would allow me ditch outlet to the river, but they say I'm too
lazy to take it."

"Lazy! Do they mean drain your lake into the river?"

"They do," said the Harvester, "and make the bed into a cornfield."

"But you wouldn't?"

She turned to him with confidence.

"I haven't so far, but of course, when you see it, if you would prefer it in a corn----Let's
play a game! Turn your head in this direction," he indicated with the whip, "close your eyes,
and open them when I say ready."

"All right!"

"Now!" said the Harvester.

"Oh," cried the Girl. "Stop! Please stop!"

They were at the foot of a small levee that ran to the bridge crossing Singing Water. On the
left lay the valley through which the stream swept from its hurried rush down the hill, a marshy
thicket of vines, shrubs, and bushes, the banks impassable with water growth. Everywhere flamed
foxfire and cardinal flower, thousands of wild tiger lilies lifted gorgeous orange-red trumpets,
beside pearl-white turtle head and moon daisies, while all the creek bank was a coral line
with the first opening bloom of big pink mallows. Rank jewel flower poured gold from dainty
cornucopias and lavender beard-tongue offered honey to a million bumbling bees; water smart-weed
spread a glowing pink background, and twining amber dodder topped the marsh in lacy mist with
its delicate white bloom. Straight before them a white-sanded road climbed to the bridge and
up a gentle hill between the young hedge of small trees and bushes, where again flowers and
bright colours rioted and led to the cabin yet invisible. On the right, the hill, crowned with
gigantic forest trees, sloped to the lake; midway the building stood, and from it, among scattering
trees all the way to the water's edge, were immense beds of vivid colour. Like a scarf of gold
flung across the face of earth waved the misty saffron, and beside the road running down the
hill, in a sunny, open space arose tree-like specimens of thrifty magenta pokeberry. Down the
hill crept the masses of colour, changing from dry soil to water growth.

High around the blue-green surface of the lake waved lacy heads of wild rice, lower cat-tails,
bulrushes, and marsh grasses; arrowhead lilies lifted spines of pearly bloom, while yellow
water lilies and blue water hyacinths intermingled; here and there grew a pink stretch of water
smartweed and the dangling gold of jewel flower. Over the water, bordering the edge, starry
faces of white pond lilies floated. Blue flags waved graceful leaves, willows grew in clumps,
and vines clambered everywhere.

Among the growth of the lake shore, duck, coot, and grebe voices commingled in the last chattering
hastened splash of securing supper before bedtime; crying killdeers crossed the water, and
overhead the nighthawks massed in circling companies. Betsy climbed the hill and at every step
the Girl cried, "Slower! please go slower!" With wide eyes she stared around her.

"WHY DIDN'T YOU TELL ME IT WOULD BE LIKE THIS?" she demanded in awed tones.

"Have I had opportunity to describe much of anything?" asked the Harvester. "Besides, I was
born and reared here, and while it has been a garden of bloom for the past six years only,
it always has been a picture; but one forgets to say much about a sight seen every day and
that requires the work this does."

"That white mist down there, what is it?" she marvelled.

"Pearls grown by the Almighty," answered the Harvester. "Flowers that I hope you will love.
They are like you. Tall and slender, graceful, pearl white and pearl pure----those are the
arrowhead Lilies."

"And the wonderful purplish-red there on the bank? Oh, I could kneel and pray before colour
like that!'

"Pokeberry!" said the Harvester. "Roots bring five cents a pound. Good blood purifier."

"Man!" cried the Girl. "How can you? I'm not going to ask what another colour is. I'll just
worship what I like in silence."

"Will you forgive me if I tell you what a woman whose judgment I respect says about that colour?"

"Perhaps!"

"She says, 'God proves that He loves it best of all the tints in His workshop by using it first
and most sparingly.' Now are you going to punish me by keeping silent?"

"I couldn't if I tried." Just then they came upon the bridge crossing Singing Water, and there
was a long view of its border, rippling bed, and marshy banks; while on the other hand the
lake resembled a richly incrusted sapphire.

"Is the house close?"

"Just a few rods, at the turn of the drive."

"Please help me down. I want to remain here a while. I don't care what else there is to see.
Nothing can equal this. I wish I could bring down a bed and sleep here. I'd like to have a
table, and draw and paint. I understand now what you mean about the designs you mentioned.
Why, there must be thousands! I can't go on. I never saw anything so appealing in all my life."

Now the Harvester's mother had designed that bridge and he had built it with much care. From
bark-covered railings to solid oak floor and comfortable benches running along the sides it
was intended to be a part of the landscape.

"I'll send Belshazzar to the cabin with the wagon," he said, "so you can see better."

"But you must not!" she cried. "I can't walk. I wouldn't soil these beautiful shoes for anything."

"Why don't you change them?" inquired the Harvester.

"I am afraid I forgot everything I had," said the Girl.

"There are shoes somewhere in this load. I thought of them in getting other things for you,
but I had no idea as to size, and so I told that clerk to-day when she got your measure to
put in every kind you'd need."

"You are horribly extravagant," she said. "But if you have them here, perhaps I could use one
pair."

The Harvester mounted the wagon and hunted until he found a large box, and opening it on the
bench he disclosed almost every variety of shoe, walking shoe and slipper, a girl ever owned,
as well as sandals and high overshoes.

"For pity sake!" cried the Girl. "Cover that box! You frighten me. You'll never get them paid
for. You must take them straight back."

"Never take anything back," said the Harvester. "'Be sure you are right, then go ahead,' is
my motto. Now I know these are your correct size and that for differing occasions you will
want just such shoes as other girls have, and here they are. Simple as life! I think these
will serve because they are for street wear, yet they are white inside."

He produced a pair of canvas walking shoes and kneeling before her held out his hand.

When he had finished, he loaded the box on the wagon, gave the hitching strap to Belshazzar,
and told him to lead Betsy to the cabin and hold her until he came. Then he turned to the Girl.

"Now," he said, "look as long as you choose. But remember that the law gives you part of this
and your lover, which same am I, gives you the remainder, so you are privileged to come here
at any hour as often as you please. If you miss anything this evening, you have all time to
come in which to re-examine it."

"I'd like to live right here on this bridge," she said. "I wish it had a roof."

"Roof it to-morrow," offered the Harvester. "Simple matter of a few pillars already cut, joists
joined, and some slab shingles left from the cabin. Anything else your ladyship can suggest?"

"That you be sensible."

"I was born that way," explained the Harvester, "and I've cultivated the faculty until I've
developed real genius. Talking of sense, there never was a proper marriage in which the man
didn't give the woman a present. You seem likely to be more appreciative of this bridge than
anything else I have, so right here and now would be the appropriate place to offer you my
wedding gift. I didn't have much time, but I couldn't have found anything more suitable if
I'd taken a year."

He held out a small, white velvet case.

"Doesn't that look as if it were made for a bride?" he asked.

"It does," answered the Girl. "But I can't take it. You are not doing right. Marrying as we
did, you never can believe that I love you; maybe it won't ever happen that I do. I have no
right to accept gifts and expensive clothing from you. In the first place, if the love you
ask never comes, there is no possible way in which I can repay you. In the second, these things
you are offering are not suitable for life and work in the woods. In the third, I think you
are being extravagant, and I couldn't forgive myself if I allowed that."

"You divide your statements like a preacher, don't you?" asked the Harvester ingenuously. "Now
sit thee here and gaze on the placid lake and quiet your troubled spirit, while I demolish
your 'perfectly good' arguments. In the first place, you are now my wife, and you have a right
to take anything I offer, if you care for it or can use it in any manner. In the second, you
must recognize a difference in our positions. What seems nothing to you means all the world
to me, and you are less than human if you deprive me of the joy of expressing feelings I am
in honour bound to keep in my heart, by these little material offerings. In the third place,
I inherited over six hundred acres of land and water, please observe the water----it is now
in evidence on your left. All my life I have been taught to be frugal, economical, and to work.
All I've earned either has gone back into land, into the bank, or into books, very plain food,
and such clothing as you now see me wearing. Just the value of this place as it stands, with
its big trees, its drug crops yielding all the year round, would be difficult to estimate;
and I don't mind telling you that on the top of that hill there is a gold mine, and it's mine----ours
since four o'clock."

"A gold mine!"

"Acres and acres of wild ginseng, seven years of age and ready to harvest. Do you remember
what your few pounds brought?"

"Why it's worth thousands!"

"Exactly! For your peace of mind I might add that all I have done or got is paid for, except
what I bought to-day, and I will write a check for that as soon as the bill is made out. My
bank account never will feel it Truly, Ruth, I am not doing or going to do anything extravagant.
I can't afford to give you diamond necklaces, yachts, and trips to Europe; but you can have
the contents of this box and a motor boat on the lake, a horse and carriage, and a trip----say
to New York perfectly well. Please take it."

"I wish you wouldn't ask me. I would be happier not to."

"Yes, but I do ask you," persisted the Harvester. "You are not the only one to be considered.
I have some rights also, and I'm not so self-effacing that I won't insist upon them. From your
standpoint I am almost a stranger. You have spent no time considering me in near relations;
I realize that. You feel as if you were driven here for a refuge, and that is true. I said
to Belshazzar one day that I must remember that you had no dream, and had spent no time loving
me, and I do I know how this wedding seems to you, but it's going to mean something different
and better soon, please God. I can see your side; now suppose you take a look at mine. I did
have a dream, it was my dream, and beyond the sum of any delight I ever conceived. On the strength
of it I rebuilt my home and remodelled these premises. Then I saw you, and from that day I
worked early and late. I lost you and I never stopped until I found you; and I would have courted
and won you, but the fates intervened and here you are! So it's my delight to court and win
you now. If you knew the difference between having a dream that stirred the least fibre of
your being and facing the world in a demand for realization of it, and then finding what you
coveted in the palm of your hand, as it were, you would know what is in my heart, and why expression
of some kind is necessary to me just now, and why I'll explode if it is denied. It will lower
the tension, if you will accept this as a matter of fact; as if you rather expected and liked
it, if you can."

The Harvester set his finger on the spring.

"Don't!" she said. "I'll never have the courage if you do. Give it to me in the case, and let
me open it. Despite your unanswerable arguments, I am quite sure that is the only way in which
I can take it."

The Harvester gave her the box.

"My wedding gift!" she exclaimed, more to herself than to him. "Why should I be the buffet
of all the unkind fates kept in store for a girl my whole life, and then suddenly be offered
home, beautiful gifts, and wonderful loving kindness by a stranger?"

The Harvester ran his fingers through his crisp hair, pulled it into a peak, stepped to the
seat and sitting on the railing, he lifted his elbows, tilted his head, and began a motley
outpouring of half-spoken, half-whistled trills and imploring cries. There was enough similarity
that the Girl instantly recognized the red bird. Out of breath the Harvester dropped to the
seat beside her.

"And don't you keep forgetting it!" he cried. "Now open that box and put on the trinket; because
I want to take you to the cabin when the sun falls level on the drive."

She opened the case, exposing a thread of gold that appeared too slender for the weight of
an exquisite pendant, set with shimmering pearls.

"If you will look down there," the Harvester pointed over the railing to the arrowhead lilies
touched with the fading light, "you will see that they are similar."

"They are!" cried the Girl. "How lovely! Which is more beautiful I do not know. And you won't
like it if I say I must not."

She held the open case toward the Harvester.

"'Possession is nine points in the law,'" he quoted. "You have taken it already and it is in
your hands; now make the gift perfect for me by putting it on and saying nothing more."

"My wedding gift!" repeated the Girl. Slowly she lifted the beautiful ornament and held it
in the light. "I'm so glad you just force me to take it," she said. "Any half-normal girl would
be delighted. I do accept it. And what's more, I am going to keep and wear it and my ring at
suitable times all my life, in memory of what you have done to be kind to me on this awful day."

"Thank you!" said the Harvester. "That is a flash of the proper spirit. Allow me to put it on you."

"No!" said the Girl. "Not yet! After a while! I want to hold it in my hands, where I can see it!"

"Now there is one other thing," said the Harvester.

"If I had known for any length of time that this day was coming and bringing you, as most men
know when a girl is to be given into their care, I could have made it different. As it is,
I've done the best I knew. All your after life I hope you will believe this: Just that if you
missed anything to-day that would have made it easier for you or more pleasant, the reason
was because of my ignorance of women and the conventions, and lack of time. I want you to know
and to feel that in my heart those vows I took were real. This is undoubtedly all the marrying
I will ever want to do. I am old-fashioned in my ways, and deeply imbued with the spirit of
the woods, and that means unending evolution along the same lines.

"To me you are my revered and beloved wife, my mate now; and I am sure nothing will make me
feel any different. This is the day of my marriage to the only woman I ever have thought of
wedding, and to me it is joy unspeakable. With other men such a day ends differently from the
close of this with me. Because I have done and will continue to do the level best I know for
you, this oration is the prologue to asking you for one gift to me from you, a wedding gift.
I don't want it unless you can bestow it ungrudgingly, and truly want me to have it. If you
can, I will have all from this day I hope for at the hands of fate. May I have the gift I ask
of you, Ruth?"

She lifted startled eyes to his face.

"Tell me what it is?" she breathed.

"It may seem much to you," said the Harvester; "to me it appears only a gracious act, from
a wonderful woman, if you will give me freely, one real kiss. I've never had one, save from
a Dream Girl, Ruth, and you will have to make yours pretty good if it is anything like hers.
You are woman enough to know that most men crush their brides in their arms and take a thousand.
I'll put my hands behind me and never move a muscle, and I won't ask for more, if you will
crown my wedding day with only one touch of your lips. Will you kiss me just once, Ruth?"

The Girl lifted a piteous face down which big tears suddenly rolled.

"Oh Man, you shame me!" she cried. "What kind of a heart have I that it fails to respond to
such a plea? Have I been overworked and starved so long there is no feeling in me? I don't
understand why I don't take you in my arms and kiss you a hundred times, but you see I don't.
It doesn't seem as if I ever could."

"Never mind," said the Harvester gently. "It was only a fancy of mine, bred from my dream and
unreasonable, perhaps. I am sorry I mentioned it. The sun is on the stoop now; I want you to
enter your home in its light. Come!"

He half lifted her from the bench. "I am going to help you up the drive as I used to assist
mother," he said, fighting to keep his voice natural. "Clasp your hands before you and draw
your elbows to your sides. Now let me take one in each palm, and you will scoot up this drive
as if you were on wheels."

"But I don't want to 'scoot'," she said unsteadily. "I must go slowly and not miss anything."

"On the contrary, you don't want to do any such thing----you should leave most of it for to-morrow."

"I had forgotten there would be any to-morrow. It seems as if the day would end it and set
me adrift again."

"You are going to awake in the gold room with the sun shining on your face in the morning,
and it's going to keep on all your life. Now if you've got a smile in your anatomy, bring it
to the surface, for just beyond this tree lies happiness for you."

His voice was clear and steady now, his confidence something contagious. There was a lovely
smile on her face as she looked at him, and stepped into the line of light crossing the driveway;
and then she stopped and cried, "Oh lovely! Lovely! Lovely!" over and over. Then maybe the
Harvester was not glad he had planned, worked unceasingly, and builded as well as he knew.

The cabin of large, peeled, golden oak logs, oiled to preserve them, nestled like a big mushroom
on the side of the hill. Above and behind the building the trees arose in a green setting.
The roof was stained to their shades. The wide veranda was enclosed in screening, over which
wonderful vines climbed in places, and round it grew ferns and deep-wood plants. Inside hung
big baskets of wild growth; there was a wide swinging seat, with a back rest, supported by
heavy chains. There were chairs and a table of bent saplings and hickory withes. Two full stories
the building arose, and the western sun warmed it almost to orange-yellow, while the graceful
vines crept toward the roof.

The Girl looked at the rapidly rising hedge on each side of her, at the white floor of the
drive, and long and long at the cabin.

"You did all this since February?" she asked.

"Even to transforming the landscape," answered the Harvester.

"Oh I wish it was not coming night!" she cried. "I don't want the dark to come, until you have
told me the name of every tree and shrub of that wonderful hedge, and every plant and vine
of the veranda; and oh I want to follow up the driveway and see that beautiful little creek--listen
to it chuckle and laugh! Is it always glad like that? See the ferns and things that grow on
the other side of it! Why there are big beds of them. And lilies of the valley by the acre!
What is that yellow around the corner?"

"Never mind that now," said the Harvester, guiding her up the steps, along the gravelled walk
to the screen that he opened, and over a flood of gold light she crossed the veranda, and entered
the door.

"Now here it appears bare," said the Harvester, "because I didn't know what should go on the
walls or what rugs to get or about the windows. The table, chairs, and couch I made myself
with some help from a carpenter. They are solid black walnut and will age finely."

"They are beautiful," said the Girl, softly touching the shining table top with her fingers.
"Please put the necklace on me now, I have to use my eyes and hands for other things."

She held out the box and the Harvester lifted the pendant and clasped the chain around her
neck. She glanced at the lustrous pearls and then the fingers of one hand softly closed over
them. She went through the long, wide living-room, examining the chairs and mantel, stopping
to touch and exclaim over its array of half-finished candlesticks. At the door of his room
she paused. "And this?" she questioned.

"Mine," said the Harvester, turning the knob. "I'll give you one peep to satisfy your curiosity,
and show you the location of the bridge over which you came to me in my dream. All the remainder
is yours. I reserve only this."

"Will the 'goblins git me' if I come here?"

"Not goblins, but a man alive; so heed your warning. After you have seen it, keep away."

The floor was cement, three of the walls heavy screening with mosquito wire inside, the roof
slab shingled. On the inner wall was a bookcase, below it a desk, at one side a gun cabinet,
at the other a bath in a small alcove beside a closet. The room contained two chairs like those
of the veranda, and the bed was a low oak couch covered with a thick mattress of hemlock twigs,
topped with sweet fern, on which the sun shone all day. On a chair at the foot were spread
some white sheets, a blanket, and an oilcloth. The sun beat in, the wind drifted through, and
one lying on the couch could see down the bright hill, and sweep the lake to the opposite bank
without lifting the head. The Harvester drew the Girl to the bedside.

"Now straight in a line from here," he said, "across the lake to that big, scraggy oak, every
clear night the moon builds a bridge of molten gold, and once you walked it, my girl, and came
straight to me, alone and unafraid; and you were gracious and lovely beyond anything a man
ever dreamed of before. I'll have that to think of to-night. Now come see the dining-room,
kitchen, and hand-made sunshine."

He led her into what had been the front room of the old cabin, now a large, long dining-room
having on each side wide windows with deep seats. The fireplace backwall was against that of
the living-room, but here the mantel was bare. All the wood-work, chairs, the dining table,
cupboards, and carving table were golden oak. Only a few rugs and furnishings and a woman's
touch were required to make it an unusual and beautiful room. The kitchen was shining with
a white hard-wood floor, white wood-work, and pale green walls. It was a light, airy, sanitary
place, supplied with a pump, sink, hot and cold water faucets, refrigerator, and every modern
convenience possible to the country.

Then the Harvester almost carried the Girl up the stairs and showed her three large sleeping
rooms, empty and bare save for some packing cases.

"I didn't know about these, so I didn't do anything. When you find time to plan, tell me what
you want, and I'll make--or buy it. They are good-sized, cool rooms. They all have closets
and pipes from the furnace, so they will be comfortable in winter. Now there is your place
remaining. I'll leave you while I stable Betsy and feed the stock."

He guided her to the door opening from the living-room to the east.

"This is the sunshine spot," he said. "It is bathed in morning light, and sheltered by afternoon
shade. Singing Water is across the drive there to talk to you always. It comes pelting down
so fast it never freezes, so it makes music all winter, and the birds are so numerous you'll
have to go to bed early for they'll wake you by dawn. I noticed this room was going to be full
of sunshine when I built it, and I craved only brightness for you, so I coaxed all of it to
stay that I could. Every stroke is the work of my hands, and all of the furniture. I hope you
will like it. This is the room of which I've been telling you, Ruth. Go in and take possession,
and I'll entreat God and all His ministering angels to send you sunshine and joy."

He opened the door, guided her inside, closed it, and went swiftly to his work.

The Girl stood and looked around her with amazed eyes. The floor was pale yellow wood, polished
until it shone like a table top. The casings, table, chairs, dressing table, chest of drawers,
and bed were solid curly maple. The doors were big polished slabs of it, each containing enough
material to veneer all the furniture in the room. The walls were of plaster, tinted yellow,
and the windows with yellow shades were curtained in dainty white. She could hear the Harvester
carrying the load from the wagon to the front porch, the clamour of the barn yard; and as she
went to the north window to see the view, a shining peacock strutted down the walk and went
to the Harvester's hand for grain, while scores of snow-white doves circled over his head.
She stepped on deep rugs of yellow goat skins, and, glancing at the windows on either side,
she opened the door.

Outside it lay a porch with a railing, but no roof. On each post stood a box filled with yellow
wood-flowers and trailing vines of pale green. A big tree rising through one corner of the
floor supplied the cover. A gate opened to a walk leading to the driveway, and on either side
lay a patch of sod, outlined by a deep hedge of bright gold. In it saffron, cone-flowers, black-eyed
Susans, golden-rod, wild sunflowers, and jewel flower grew, and some of it, enough to form
a yellow line, was already in bloom. Around the porch and down the walk were beds of yellow
violets, pixie moss, and every tiny gold flower of the woods. The Girl leaned against the tree
and looked around her and then staggered inside and dropped on the couch.

"What planning! What work!" she sobbed. "What taste! Why he's a poet! What wonderful beauty!
He's an artist with earth for his canvas, and growing things for colours."

She lay there staring at the walls, the beautiful wood-work and furniture, the dressing table
with its array of toilet articles, a low chair before it, and the thick rug for her feet. Over
and over she looked at everything, and then closed her eyes and lay quietly, too weary and
overwhelmed to think. By and by came tapping at the door, and she sprang up and crossing to
the dressing table straightened her hair and composed her face.

"Ajax demands to see you," cried a gay voice.

The Girl stepped outside.

"Don't be frightened if he screams at you," warned the Harvester as she passed him. "He detests
a stranger, and he always cries and sulks."

It was a question what was in the head of the bird as he saw the strange looking creature invading
his domain, and he did scream, a wild, high, strident wail that delighted the Harvester inexpressibly,
because it sent the Girl headlong into his arms.

"Oh, good gracious!" she cried. "Has such a beautiful bird got a noise in it like that? Why
I've fed them in parks and I never heard one explode before."

Then how the Harvester laughed.

"But you see you are in the woods now, and this is not a park bird. It will be the test of
your power to see how soon you can coax him to your hand."

"How do I work to win him?"

"I am afraid I can't tell you that," said the Harvester. "I had to invent a plan for myself.
It required a long time and much petting, and my methods might not avail for you. It will interest
you to study that out. But the member of the family it is positively essential that you win
to a life and death allegiance is Belshazzar. If you can make him love you, he will protect
you at every turn. He will go before you into the forest and all the crawling, creeping things
will get out of his way. He will nose around the flowers you want to gather, and if he growls
and the hair on the back of his neck rises, never forget that you must heed that warning. A
few times I have not stopped for it, and I always have been sorry. So far as anything animate
or uncertain footing is concerned, you are always perfectly safe if you obey him. About touching
plants and flowers, you must confine yourself to those you are certain you know, until I can
teach you. There are gorgeous and wonderfully attractive things here, but some of them are
rank poison. You won't handle plants you don't know, until you learn, Ruth?"

"I will not," she promised instantly.

She went to the seat under the porch tree and leaning against the trunk she studied the hill,
and the rippling course of Singing Water where it turned and curved before the cabin, and started
across the vivid little marsh toward the lake. Then she looked at the Harvester. He seated
himself on the low railing and smiled at her.

"You are very tired?" he asked.

"No," she said. "You are right about the air being better up here. It is stimulating instead
of depressing."

"So far as pure air, location, and water are concerned," said the Harvester, "I consider this
place ideal. The lake is large enough to cool the air and raise sufficient moisture to dampen
it, and too small to make it really cold and disagreeable. The slope of the hill gives perfect
drainage. The heaviest rains do not wet the earth for more than three hours. North, south,
and west breezes sweep the cool air from the water to the cabin in summer. The same suns warm
us here on the winter hillside. My violets, spring beauties, anemones, and dutchman's breeches
here are always two weeks ahead of those in the woods. I am not afraid of your not liking the
location or the air. As for the cabin, if you don't care for that, it's very simple. I'll transform
it into a laboratory and dry-house, and build you whatever you want, within my means, over
there on the hill just across Singing Water and facing the valley toward Onabasha. That's a
perfect location. The thing that worries me is what you are going to do for company, especially
while I am away."

"Don't trouble yourself about anything," she said. "Just say in your heart, 'she is going to
be stronger than she ever has been in her life in this lovely place, and she has more right
now than she ever had or hoped to have.' For one thing, I am going to study your books. I never
have had time before. While we sewed or embroidered, mother talked by the hour of the great
writers of the world, told me what they wrote, and how they expressed themselves, but I got
to read very little for myself."

"Books are my company," said the Harvester.

"Do your friends come often?"

"Almost never! "hardly in the sense that i can mean. But that there is the Conservative'lesson. That
lesson to me to be am conservative with continual improvement with the condition of the man.
But with the great all such improvement is to be based on the idea for the maintenance of those
distances. I emphatically that a Duke to be kept that far apart from man who drives my horses
as was my ancestor from this man who drove his, or who rode after him to the wars, ten and that
is to go on for ever.

"I'd love to have her come," said the Girl. "Is that all?"

"Yes."

"Why?"

"Your favourite word," laughed the Harvester. "The reason lies with me, or rather with my mother.
Some day I will tell you the whole story, and the cause. I think now I can encompass it in
this. The place is an experiment. When medicinal herbs, roots, and barks became so scarce that
some of the most important were almost extinct, it occurred to me that it would be a good idea
to stop travelling miles and poaching on the woods of other people, and turn our land into
an herb garden. For four years before mother went, and six since, I've worked with all my might,
and results are beginning to take shape. While I've been at it, of course, my neighbours had
an inkling of what was going on, and I've been called a fool, lazy, and a fanatic, because
I did not fell the trees and plow for corn. You readily can see I'm a little short of corn
ground out there," he waved toward the marsh and lake, "and up there," he indicated the steep
hill and wood. "But somewhere on this land I've been able to find muck for mallows, water for
flags and willows, shade for ferns, lilies, and ginseng, rocky, sunny spaces for mullein, and
open, fertile beds for Bouncing Bet----just for examples. God never evolved a place better
suited for an herb farm; from woods to water and all that goes between, it is perfect."

"And indescribably lovely," added the Girl.

"Yes, I think it is," said the Harvester. "But in the days when I didn't know how it was coming
out, I was sensitive about it; so I kept quiet and worked, and allowed the other fellow to
do the talking. After a while the ginseng bed grew a treasure worth guarding, and I didn't
care for any one to know how much I had or where it was, as a matter of precaution. Ginseng
and money are synonymous, and I was forced to be away some of the time."

"Would any one take it?"

"Certainly!" said the Harvester. "If they knew it was there, and what it is worth. Then, as
I've told you, much of the stuff here must not be handled except by experts, and I didn't want
people coming in my absence and taking risks. The remainder of my reason for living so alone
is cowardice, pure and simple."

"Cowardice? You! Oh no!"

