About half of the people had passed through the narrow door when Pearl made her appearance
at the back of the hall. She had thrust her arms into a long, fur-lined crimson cloak, but
it fell open from the neck down, revealing her crimson and gold frock and gleaming emeralds.
A black lace mantilla was thrown over her head and half over her face, showing only her sparkling
eyes. She began taking various gay, little steps, still full of that joy of movement which
had possessed her all evening.

Those who remained in the hall began to laugh and applaud. She danced a moment in response
to it, and then, pausing, suddenly bowed low and shook her head definitely. Then she wrapped
her cloak closely about her, turning up its wide, fur-lined collar, and, linking her arm with
Hughie's, came down the room with him still taking those irrepressible little steps. Just as
she reached the door she whisked a handkerchief from a pocket in her cloak and held it to her
nose. A waft of exquisite perfume filled the air, but the eyes of the two deputies who guarded
the door were fixed with an almost stunned astonishment upon the jewels which covered her bare
hands.

The sheriff had given orders that the Pearl and Hughie, Mrs. Thomas and Mrs. Nitschkan were
to be allowed to pass, were, in fact, to be got out of the hall just as quickly as possible;
but these orders had not been clearly understood and the two deputies at the door halted Pearl,
Hughie and Mrs. Thomas, who was close to them.

Before either Pearl or Hughie could protest Seagreave, who had been about ten feet behind them,
was at their side. "Let them pass," he said. "Those are your orders."

"I hadn't heard it," said the other man, "and I'm not taking my orders from you."

But the words were scarcely out of his mouth before Seagreave's arm, that "left" which had
floored many an opponent in the old days of his middle-weight championship, shot out in a hook,
lightning-like, to the right side of the jaw of the nearest deputy. The man reeled under that
impact and went crashing over against his companion, bringing them both in a heap to the floor.
At the same moment Pearl, grasping Hughie's arm, pulled him about the two who lay half stunned
and was out of the door like a flash.

Mrs. Thomas, who had been taken into the confidence of the group only so far as to have it
impressed upon her that she uttered the word José at her peril, and that the bandit's name
was now Pedro, had not been quick enough to follow Pearl and Hugh in their flight through the
door and now stood helplessly gazing about her, confused, almost dazed, by the whole situation.

The sheriff, whose attention had meanwhile been occupied by Mrs. Nitschkan, who was creating
a lusty disturbance in the middle of the floor, ran forward, shouting orders. "Let 'em go,
I tell you!" to those who would have pursued the Pearl. "Where's your heads? I told you that
this hall had got to be cleared, and cleared quick, of the women. As for you, Seagreave," catching
Harry by the arm, "don't try to wriggle through that door. You're under arrest."

"Look here, sheriff, it's snowing heavily. Hugh's blind, as you know, and can't possibly drive
my horse up the hill. I drove Miss Gallito down in my cart and was to drive her back. You know
there's no earthly way for me to escape, so if you let me drive those two up the hill, I'll
either come back here or you can get me in my cabin."

"So that's your game, son!" the sheriff smiled cynically. "To stir the boys up now. It's too
late. They're all safe home, with their boots off, and their wives talkin' to them. Even the
girl couldn't make 'em forget the honor of capturing Crop-eared José here in Colina, so run
along, run along. The girl's too pretty to be hurt with a frisky horse. My Lord!" striding
down the hall again, "you fools stop scrapping with that termagant and put her out, put her
out, I say."

"Try it yourself," called Nitschkan tauntingly, enjoying to the full her "hour of glorious
strife," and resisting with perfect ease the vague and chivalrous efforts of half a dozen deputies
to hustle her from the hall. "Any more of you try to mix it up with me and I'll put you all
down for the count."

"Oh, Sadie, Sadie," cried Mrs. Thomas, running down the hall toward her friend, "it do beat
the dogs how you act. These gentlemen'll think you're no lady. Do behave more refined."

But Mrs. Nitschkan paid no heed to her pleadings. "Who's this José you're all talking about?"
she cried. "I know Pedro, but no José."

Then she wasted no more breath in words, but gave herself strictly to the business of the moment,
prolonging the straggle far beyond the patience of the sheriff and his men. But ultimately
numbers prevailed, and, although she resisted to the last moment, giving no quarter and asking
none, she was finally landed outside and the door locked upon her.

Swearing volubly, the sheriff turned his attention to that far end of the hall where the deputies
who had not been engaged in the struggle with Mrs. Nitschkan stood guard over Gallito and Flick,
who had ranged themselves before the crimson curtain of Pearl's dressing room. Two men, three,
counting José behind the curtain, against at least twenty! Hanson, from the back of the hall,
yielded to his inclination to laugh.

"They lined up just as I expected," muttered the sheriff as he advanced down the room, "and
it's a lot of good it's going to do them. Say," he called to Flick and Gallito, "it ain't no
use drawing your guns, boys. I guess you two old hands got sense enough to see that. So all
you got to do is to hand over the prisoner. We'll tend to the rest of you later."

"I guess you're all right"--Bob Flick's soft voice had a carrying quality which caused his
words to be heard all over the hall--"but we all, Gallito and myself here, feel kind of puzzled.
Of course, we see right from the first what the game was and that you were after us, but we
ain't wise yet."

"Is that so?" sneered the sheriff. "Well, you soon will be. You step aside from that curtain,
and, Bob Flick, my men have orders to wing you and Gallito both the minute you even start to
throw your hands back."

Gallito shrugged his shoulders and threw up his hands and Flick laughingly waved his in the air.

"I guess you're right there, Bill," he said. "You sure got the argument of numbers. But say,
boys, honest, what bug you all got in your heads? You see in this land of the free you can't
subject me and my friend Gallito to such indignities as you're a heaping on us. As far as I
can make out, you're only laying up trouble for yourself, and also"--here there rang a peculiarly
menacing note through his soft, southern voice--"if I'm correct, you're accusing Miss Pearl
Gallito of being a suspicious character, and I'm assuring you now, boys, that either in the
desert or here in the mountains that that's the sort of thing you've got to answer for."

"Stop your kidding, Bob," said the sheriff, impatiently. He took a rapid stride forward and
with one quick sweep of the arm ripped back the curtain.

Then he fell back staring, dumb with surprise. For there stood the Black Pearl alone, a man's
coat buttoned across her bare chest, and beneath it the froth of her rose-colored silk petticoats.
She stood nonchalantly enough, her head thrown back, her hands on her hips, surveying the group
of men with a quick, disdainful smile, and then laughed insolently across them at Hanson.

"My Lord!" cried the sheriff, recovering himself, "how did you get here? Why, you just went
out of the door."

"Gee! José dressed up in her clothes and made a getaway," called a shrill voice from the rear.

The sheriff swore audibly and violently as he ran to the door. "Here, three of you boys," he
ordered, "stay here and hold these prisoners. It ain't ten minutes since the others left and
there's no chance on earth for 'em to escape. We'll have 'em before you know it. Come on, the
rest of you."

CHAPTER XIII

The morning dawned, but the Sheriff and his aids, their numbers considerably increased by the
various masculine inhabitants of Colina who had joyously proffered their assistance--welcoming
anything that promised a little excitement after the wearing monotony of the winter--were still
seeking José, who seemed to have vanished in some manner only to be explained as miraculous.

Gallito, Bob Flick, Pearl and Hugh, Mrs. Nitschkan and Mrs. Thomas had all been taken to the
village hotel and were there under guard, while Seagreave, also under guard, was permitted
to remain temporarily, at least, in his cabin.

The reason for this was that the sheriff was beginning to turn over certain rather vexing questions
in his mind. Suppose, for instance, José should really have made his escape, impossible as
that feat appeared, what definite, tangible proof had he that the crop-eared bandit had really
been harbored by Gallito? Only some vague statements made by a woman to Hanson, a woman who
thought that she had overheard a conversation or several conversations between Gallito and
Bob Flick. There had undoubtedly been some one, some one whose interest it was not to be caught,
as the events of the previous night showed, but the explanation they had all given, Flick,
Gallito, Hugh, Seagreave and the women, had struck the sheriff as extremely plausible, far
more plausible, in fact, than Hanson's story that Crop-eared José had been secreted for months
at a time in Gallito's cabin.

The explanation which Gallito and all of his group had given was this. A younger brother of
Gallito, Pedro by name, had been visiting him for some time. This youth had led a somewhat
irregular life both in Spain and in this country, and had become involved in several more or
less serious affairs; more, so Gallito averred, from a certain wildness and recklessness of
nature than from any criminal instincts. Several of his companions had been arrested and, fearing
that he would be also, he had fled to Colina and begged Gallito to shelter him until it was
safe for him to go to work in one of the mines.

The night before he had been very anxious to see Pearl dance in public, and, not daring to
sit in the audience for fear of being recognized by some chance wayfarer, he had gained Pearl's
consent to watch the entertainment from the safe seclusion of her dressing room.

Both Flick and Seagreave, who were in Gallito's confidence, believed that the boy's fears were
greatly exaggerated, but when they saw the sheriff and all of his deputies in the hall their
curiosity was aroused. Flick had then gone over to speak to Hanson and Hanson's conversation
had convinced him that Pedro was really in danger and would be arrested before the evening
was over. They then devised the plan of having him escape in Pearl's dancing dress and long
cloak, meaning to drive him up the hill and let him take his chances of eluding his would-be
captors in the forest surrounding Gallito's cabin. But he had slipped out of the cart a short
distance up the hill. Seagreave believed that there were a pair of snow-shoes in the bottom
of the cart, which had disappeared. That was all any of them could say.

But when Seagreave pointed out to the sheriff that if no one remained in either his or Gallito's
cabin, it was extremely likely that both dwellings would be looted before nightfall, also that
without the fires made and kept up the provisions would freeze and that with a guard over him,
he would be as easy to lay hands on as if he were down at the hotel with the rest, the sheriff
gravely considered the matter and was disposed to yield the point. As Seagreave remarked, he
certainly had not mastered the art of flying and he knew no other way by which he might escape.
"Poor Pedro!" he sighed.

"You bet it's poor Pedro," said the sheriff grimly. "Why, you know as well as I do, Seagreave,
that there ain't no way on God's green earth for that boy to make a getaway. Of course, he's
given us a lot of bother, what with that damned snow falling again last night and covering
up any tracks he might make, but we're bound to get him. Why, a little army, if it had enough
ammunition, could hold Colina against the world. When you got a camp that's surrounded by cañons
about a thousand foot deep, how you going to get into it, if the folks inside don't want you?
Now, take that, boy! How's he going to strike the main roads and the bridges in the dead of
night, especially when the bridges is all so covered over with drifts that you can't see 'em
by day? And, anyway, the crust of the snow won't hold him in lots of places. 'Course he may
flounder 'round some, but there's no possible chance for him, and I'm thinking that the coyotes'll
get him before we do."

To this Seagreave agreed, and after the sheriff had further relieved his feelings by some vitriolic
comments upon Hanson, he granted him permission to look after the two cabins, and indifferently
ordered the deputy in charge to go down the hill and get his breakfast at the hotel, remarking
with rough humor that he'd leave Seagreave the prisoner of the mountain peaks and he guessed
they'd keep him safe all right.

So the two men, their appetites sharpened by a night spent in searching for the fugitive, took
their way down toward the village, and it was not long thereafter that Pearl, having secured
permission to go up to the cabin and make some changes in her clothing, wearily climbed the
hill. The lacks in her costume had been temporarily supplied by the inn-keeper's wife, but
these makeshifts irked her fastidious spirit.

She had suggested that Mrs. Nitschkan and Mrs. Thomas go with her, but they were too thoroughly
enjoying the limelight in which they found themselves to consider trudging up to their isolated
cabin. Mrs. Thomas, in a pink glow of excitement, cooed and smiled and fluttered her lashes
at half a dozen admirers, while Mrs. Nitschkan recounted to an interested group just where
and how she had shot her bears.

"Say, have you took in the sheriff?" Mrs. Thomas found occasion to whisper to Mrs. Nitschkan.
"He's an awful good looker, an' I think he got around that hall so stylish last night."

"What eyes he's got ain't for you," answered the gypsy cruelly. "He's kept his lamps steady
on Pearl."

"That's all you know about it," returned Mrs. Thomas with some spirit. "He sat beside me at
the table this morning and squeezed my hand twice when I passed him the flap-jacks. He's a
real man, he is, an' likes a woman to be a woman, an' not a grizzly bear like you or a black
panther like that Pearl."

Pearl's progress up the hill was necessarily slow. The wagons had cut the snow into great ruts
which made walking difficult, and where it was smoother it was exceedingly slippery. But her
weariness soon vanished under the stimulus of the fresh morning air. Even the exertion of dancing
the evening before and the night of excitement which followed had left no trace. She was, indeed,
a tireless creature and supple as a whalebone. So, after a few moments' exercise in the exhilaratingly
pure air, the sparkle returned to her eye, the color to her cheek, and her step had regained
its usual light buoyancy.

Although March had come with its thaws, there was no suggestion of spring in the landscape.
From the white, monotonous expanse of snow rose bleak, skeleton shapes of trees lifting bare,
black boughs to the snow-sodden clouds. Upon either side of the road lay a forest of desolation--varied
only by the sad, dull green of the wind-blown pines--which stretched away and away until it
became a mere blue shadow as unsubstantial as smoke on the mountain horizon; and yet spring,
still invisible and to be denied by the doubting, was in the air, with all its soft intimations
of bud and blossom and joyous life; and spring was in Pearl's heart as she hastened up the
hill toward Seagreave. It brushed her cheek like a caress, it touched her lips like a song.

When she was about a quarter of a mile up from the village she crossed a little bridge which
spanned a deep and narrow crevasse, a gash which cleft the great mountain to its foundation.
Pearl lingered here a moment to rest, and, leaning her arms on the railing, looked down curiously
into the mysterious depths so far below.

The white walls of the sharp, irregular declivity reflected many cold, prismatic lights, and
down, far down where the eye could no longer distinguish shapes and outlines, there lay a shadow
like steam from some vast, subterranean cauldron, blue, dense, impenetrable. It fascinated
Pearl and she stood there trying to pierce the depths with her eye, until at last, recalled
to herself by the chill in the wind, she again turned and hastened up the hill. But before
seeking Seagreave and asking him to share his breakfast with her, she followed the instincts
of her inherent and ineradicable coquetry and, stopping at her father's cabin, made a toilet,
slipping into one of her own gowns and rearranging her hair. Then, throwing a long cape about
her and adjusting her mantilla, she closed the door behind her and turned into the narrow trail
which led at sharp right angles to the road to Saint Harry's cabin. It was, Pearl reflected,
almost like walking through the tunnel of a mine; the snow walls on either side of her were
as high as her head. Occasionally the green fringes of a pine branch tapped her cheek sharply
with their rusty needles. Then the tunnel widened to a little clearing where stood the cabin,
picturesque with the lichened bark of the trees on the rough-hewn logs.

Seagreave had evidently seen her coming, for before she lifted her hand to knock he threw open
the door. "Ah," he cried, a touch of concern in his voice, "I was just going down to the other
cabin to make up the fires before you came. If you stopped there you must have found it cold,
and you did stop," his quick eye noting the change she had effected in her costume.

"Yes," she smiled, "they wouldn't let me come up the hill in José's coat and my rose petticoats,
and I felt like a miner in the clothes they lent me." She had entered the cabin and had taken
the chair he had pushed up near the crackling, blazing fire of logs which he had just finished
building to his satisfaction. The bond of sympathy between Seagreave and José was probably
that they both performed all manual tasks with a sort of beautiful precision. Gallito had characterized
Harry's cabin as the cell of a monk. It was indeed simple and plain to austerity, and yet it
possessed the beauty of a prevailing order and harmony. Shelves his own hands had made lined
the rough walls and were filled with books; beside the wide fireplace was an open cupboard,
displaying his small and shining store of cooking utensils. For the rest a table or two and
a few chairs were all the room contained.

It was the first time Pearl had ever been in the cabin, and, although she maintained the graceful
languor of her pose, lying back a little wearily in her chair, yet her narrow, gleaming eyes
pierced every corner of the room, with avid eagerness absorbing the whole, and then returning
for a closer and more penetrating study of details, as if demanding from this room where he
lived and thought a comprehensive revelation of him, a key to that remote, uncharted self which
still evaded her.

Seagreave himself, whose visible presence was, for the time, outside the field of her conjecture,
was busy preparing her breakfast, and now, after laying the cloth, he placed a chair for her
at the table and announced that everything was ready. He seated himself opposite her and Pearl's
heart thrilled at the prospect of this intimate tête-a-tête, the color rose on her cheek, her
lashes trembled and fell.

"Where's José?" she said hastily, to cover her slight, unusual embarrassment. "Tell me quick
how you managed it. Neither Bob nor Pop could tell me because someone was always with us."

"Ah," he said, "the gods were with us, but it was a wild chance, I assure you. Fortunately,
it was still snowing. Hugh and José were already in the cart and everyone else had hastened
home as fast as he or she could go. The boys would not have waited for me if I had not dashed
out just when I did, and I was glad enough to escape, for I was afraid they would make some
mistake in the road, Hugh not being able to see, and José familiar with the village only through
our description of it. I wasted no time in jumping into the cart and then drove like Jehu to
the Mont d'Or, fortunately on our way up the hill."

"The Mont d'Or!" she interjected in surprise. "But why did you stop there?"

He shrugged his shoulders significantly. "It is José's shelter. He had the keys of the engine
room. Your father had sent them to him, and with them he let himself in, and then locked the
door behind him. We got a fair start, of course, but it was only a few moments after we reached
here that three or four of the deputies were on our heels."

"Ah," she cried, "they thought you had driven him here."

"Naturally, and it is unnecessary to say that they spent several hours in searching, not only
this cabin, but your father's and Mrs. Nitschkan's to boot, and also the stable yonder." He
pointed to a little shed farther up the hill where he kept his horse and cart. He held out
his coffee cup for her to refill and laughed heartily. "I have no doubt that they will return
at intervals during the day to see if there isn't some tree-top or ledge of rock that they
may have overlooked; but at present they are too busy exploring every nook and cranny of the
various mines, especially the Mont d'Or."

She put down the coffee pot with a clatter and threw herself back in her chair with a gesture
of intense disappointment. "Then surely they will find José!" she cried.

"Oh, you do not know," he exclaimed. "Wait; it was stupid of me not to have explained. Your
father is a wonderful man. He overlooks nothing. He foresaw that in spite of all precautions,
José--and other friends of his," there was a trace of hesitation in his tones in speaking to
her of her father's chosen companions, "might be trapped here in the winter time when they
could not escape over the one or two secret trails which he knows and which he has shown José.
So, long ago, working secretly and overtime in the Mont d'Or, he hollowed out a small chamber.
It is above one of the unworked stopes and its entrance defies detection."

"But are you sure?" she interjected earnestly. "Have you seen it yourself?"

"Yes, I was with José the first time Gallito showed it to him. Then he, your father, took us
over the other parts of the mine and brought us back to the same spot to see if we could discover
the hiding place for ourselves. I assure you we could not. Neither José nor myself liked being
baffled in that way, for it seemed to us that we went over every inch of the ground, and your
father stood there laughing at us in that sarcastic way of his. Finally we gave up the search
and Gallito marked it, so that it might be found in a hurry. It is above one's head and the
wall is too smooth to climb in order to reach it--"

"How can José get in then?" interrupted Pearl.

"José has a key to your father's locker, and in that locker he keeps a rope ladder. José throws
up the ladder and the hooks catch on a dark, narrow little ledge; climbing up to this, he finds
a small opening; he wriggles into this and finds himself in a small chamber which your father
always keeps well provisioned. From this chamber a narrow passage leads up to the surface of
the ground, thus providing two exits; but, of course, the one above ground cannot be used now,
owing to the snow."

Pearl, who had been listening breathlessly to this description of José's hiding place, leaned
back with a sigh of relief. "Then it looks as if José might be all right for the present. I
do hope so for all our sakes."

She sat silent for a few moments, apparently turning over something in her mind. When she spoke
again her manner showed a certain embarrassment. "Do--do you know," she asked rather hesitatingly,
"how they got the information?"

"No," he replied. "And that is what is puzzling all of us, but they have so far refused to
tell us."

Almost she uttered a prayer of thankfulness. She very strongly suspected that the only way
Hanson could have secured the information was through her mother's inveterate habit of eavesdropping,
a weakness of hers which she had failed to hide from her daughter, and a feeling almost of
gratitude came over Pearl that so far Hanson had been decent enough to spare that poor babbler.

She took a last sip of coffee and rose from the table. "I must go down to the other cabin,"
she said, reluctance in her heart, if not in her voice.

"I will go with you"--Seagreave rose with alacrity to accompany her--"and get the fires builded.
It should really have been done long ago. But what am I thinking of? Wait a moment." He clapped
his hand to his pocket. "One never knows what avenues of cleverness and cunning a great temptation
may open up." He laughed a little. "On that wild drive to the Mont d'Or I insisted on José
removing your necklace and all your rings with which he had decked himself. I dare say it cost
him immeasurable pangs, but he had no time to express them. As I was driving he passed them
over to Hugh, and when we reached here Hugh gave them to me. He explained that in attempting
to give them to you he might be seen, and if he were it might lead to some embarrassing questions."

He drew from his pocket first the emeralds and then the rings, laying them carefully upon the
table, where they formed a glittering heap.

"I don't think it is possible that José withheld anything," Seagreave continued. "He would
not dare, and I am quite sure that neither Hughie nor I dropped even a ring when he gave them
to me. Still I would be very much obliged if you will look them over and see if they are intact."

At the sight of her treasures Pearl uttered an exclamation of pleasure and fingered them lovingly,
laying the emeralds against her cheek with a gesture that was almost a caress. "Thank you.
Oh, it was good of you to think of them at such a time and rescue them for me." Her soft, sliding
voice was warm with gratitude. "They are all here." She slipped the rings on her fingers, her
eyes dreaming on them. She fastened the emeralds about her neck and hid them beneath her gown,
pressing them against her flesh as if she found pleasure in their cold contact.

She lifted her eyes to him; her smile was languourously ardent; impulsively she caught his
hand and held it for a moment against her cheek. He started and she felt him tremble. Then
hastily he withdrew his hand, murmuring at the same time a confused, almost inarticulate protest;
but Pearl did not wait to hear it. She had risen abruptly and, catching up her cloak and wrapping
it hastily about her, had opened the door before he could reach it and had stepped out into
the snow.

Seagreave, who had paused a moment to close the door behind them, heard her utter a sharp exclamation
and turned quickly.

"Dios!" she cried. "Dios! What is it?"

She had fallen back against the wall of the cabin and was gazing about her with a strange and
startled expression. Seagreave's eye reflected it as he too stared about him with a look not
yet of alarm but of wild, deep wonder. For the moment, at least, all things were the same.
Above them the peaks towered whitely in the sullen, gray sky. On a level with their eyes, the
illimitable forests of bare, black trees mingling with the denser and more compact shapes of
the evergreens, stretched away over the hillsides, casting their long blue shadows on the snow-covered
ground until they wore blurred indistinguishably in the violet haze of distance. Unchanged,
and yet so strong was the presage of some unimagined and disastrous event, that when a long
shiver ran through the earth Pearl screamed aloud, and, stumbling toward Seagreave, reached
out gropingly for his hand.

For the second that they waited the earth, too, seemed to wait, a solemn, awe-filled moment
of incalculable change, a tense moment, as if the unknown, mysterious forces of nature were
gathering themselves together for some mighty, unprecedented effort.

Then shiver after shiver shook the ground, the earth trembled as if in some deep convulsion,
the white peaks seemed bowing and bending--then a roar as of many waters, the air darkened
and earth and sky seemed filled with the mass of the mountains slipping down--down to chaos.

Pearl had ceased to scream and had fallen to her knees, clinging desperately to Seagreave.
Her face was blanched white with terror, and she was muttering incoherent prayers.

As for Harry, he had forgotten her, forgotten himself, and was living through moments or centuries,
he knew not, which, of wonder and horror.

And what a sight! It was not simply a great mountain of snow slipping thunderously down to
the valleys beneath; but in its ever gathering momentum and incredible velocity it tore great
rocks from the ground and either snapped off trees as if they had been straws, or wholly uprooted
them, and now was a fast-flying mass of snow, earth, trees and rocks whirling and hurtling
through the air.

A huge rock had, as if forcibly detaching itself, flown off from the avalanche and buried itself
in the ground only a few feet beyond Harry and Pearl, and more than one uprooted tree lay near
them. Death had missed them by only a few paces.

Not realizing her immunity even after the air had begun to clear, and still panic-stricken
and fearful of what might still occur, Pearl continued to moan and pray until Seagreave, who
had been so dazed that he had been almost in a state of trance, again became aware of her presence
and, partially realizing her piteous state of terror, lifted her in his arms and, wrapping
them about her, endeavored to soothe her and allay her fears, although he had not yet sufficiently
recovered himself to know fully what he was doing, and was merely following the instinct of
protection.

It was impossible for him to realize the mundane again immediately after these undreamed of
and supernormal experiences. Holding Pearl, who still clung to him frantically, cowering and
trembling against him, he leaned upon the rough, projecting walls of his cabin and gazed with
awed and still unbelieving eyes into this new and formless world, yet obscured with flying snow.

Gradually as the air cleared he saw that a new world, indeed, lay before them. "Look, look,
Pearl," he cried, hoping to rouse her from her state of blind fright. "It has been an avalanche
and it is over now."

"No, no," she moaned, and buried her head more deeply in his shoulder. "I dare not look up.
It will come again."

"No, it doesn't happen twice. It is over now and we are safe and the cabin is safe."

And yet, in spite of himself, he sympathized with her fear more than he would have admitted
either to himself or her. Anything seemed possible to him now. He had looked upon a miracle.
He had seen those immutable peaks, as stable as Time, bend and bow in their strange, cosmic
dance, for the change in the position of one had created the illusory effect of a change in all.

"Come, look up, Pearl," he urged. "It is all over and everything is changed. Look up and get
accustomed to it."

Everything was indeed changed. For a few yards before the cabin his path with its white, smooth
walls was intact, but beyond that lay an incredibly smooth expanse of bare earth. The road
was obliterated; the vast projecting rock ledges which had overshadowed it had disappeared.
They had all been razed or else uprooted like the rocks and trees and carried on in that irresistible
rush. The light poured baldly down upon a hillside bare and blank and utterly featureless.
But far down the road where the bridge had spanned the cañon there rose a vast white mountain,
effectually cutting them off from all communication with the village below.

Nothing remained of familiar surroundings. This was, indeed, a new world. At last Seagreave
roused himself from his stunned contemplation of it and bent himself to the task of coaxing
Pearl to lift her head and gaze upon it, too.

At last she did so, but at the sight of that bare and unfamiliar hillside her terrors again
overcame her. "Come," she cried, dragging at his arm, "we must go--go--get away from here.
Dios! Are you mad? It is the end of the world. Come quickly."

"Where?" asked Seagreave gently.

"Home," she cried wildly. "To the church. We can at least die blessedly."

Seagreave shook his head, his eyes on that white wall--that snow mountain which rose from the
edge of the crevasse and seemed almost to touch the sky. "Listen, Pearl," he spoke more earnestly
now, as if to force some appreciation of the situation upon her mind. "This cabin is the only
thing upon the mountain. The avalanche has carried everything else away."

"Not my father's cabin, too," she peered down the hill curiously, yet fearfully, in a fascinated
horror. "Oh, but it is true. It is gone. Oh, what shall we do? But we must get down to the
camp. Come, come."

But for once Seagreave seemed scarcely to hear her. He had leaned out from the sheltering wall
and was scanning with a measuring and speculative eye the white heap that rose from the edge
of the cañon and seemed almost to touch the lowering and sullen sky.

"Thank God, the camp is safe," he murmured. "The cañon must have saved it, or else it would
have been wiped off the earth just as Gallito's cabin has been. But it has swept the bridge
away, of course."

"Oh, come." Pearl dragged at his sleeve. "I can't stay here. I am afraid."

"Pearl," and there were both anxiety and tenderness in his voice. "You must understand. Try
to realize that there is no way to get down."

"But there must be some way," she insisted, "with snow-shoes--"

He shook his head gently but definitely. "There is no way. We might as well face it." He cast
another long look at the sky. "It is the season for the thaws, the big thaws, but, even so,
it will take time to melt down that mountain out there. No, it is useless to argue," as Pearl
began again her futile rebellion against the inexorable forces of nature, "but what am I thinking
of?" in quick self-reproach. "You must not stay out here in the cold any longer. Come." He
threw open the cabin door.

But if Pearl heard him she gave no sign, but still leaned weakly, almost inertly, against the
walls of the cabin, gazing down the hillside with dazed and still frightened eyes.

Seeing her condition, Seagreave wasted no more words, but lifted her in his arms and carried
her into the room they had so recently left. There he placed her in a chair and pushed it near
the fire and she sat shivering and cowering, her hands outstretched to the blaze.

The light from the fire streamed through the room and Pearl, cheered and restored more by that
homely and familiar radiance than by any words of comfort he might have uttered, gradually
sank further and further back in her chair and presently closed her eyes. It seemed to him
that she slept. At first her rest was fitful, broken by exclamations and starts, but each time
that she opened her eyes she saw the familiar and unchanged surroundings, and Seagreave sitting
near her; and, reassured, her sleep became more natural and restful.

When she awoke it was to find herself alone. Seagreave had left, but she could hear him moving
about in the next room, near at hand if she needed him. He was evidently bringing in some logs
for the fire.

"As if nothing had happened," she muttered, "and things will go on just the same. We shall
eat; we shall sleep. How can it be?"

She got up and began to walk up and down the room. She was young, she was strong, and the shock
of those few moments of wonder and horror had almost worn off. Her active brain was alert and
normal again, and she thought deeply as she walked to and fro, considering all possible phases
of her present situation.

Then, ceasing to pace back and forth, she leaned against the window and looked out. The strange,
new world lay before her, an earth bereft of its familiar forests, and which must send forth
from its teeming heart a new growth of tender, springtime shoots to cover its nakedness. And
as she gazed the sun burst through the gray clouds and poured down upon the wide, bare hillside
an unbroken flood of golden splendor.

Hearing a slight sound behind her, she turned quickly. Seagreave had entered and, approaching
the window, stood looking at the white sloping plain without.

"I couldn't chop any more wood," he said. "It seemed too commonplace after this thing that
we have seen. But you--how are you?"

"I'm all right," she returned. But she did not meet his eyes; her black lashes lay long on
her cheek; her cheek burned. She realized in a confused way that there was some change in their
relative positions. She had always felt because of his reticence, his withdrawal into self,
his diffidence in approaching her, easily mistress of any situation which might arise between
them; but since those moments when they two had gazed upon the avalanche, and she in her terror
had flung herself upon his breast, and had wrapped her arms about him and buried her face in
his shoulder, he had assumed not only the tone but the manner of authority and had adopted
again a natural habit of command, dropped or laid aside from indifference or inertia, but instinctively
resumed when through some powerful feeling he became again his normal self, alive and alert,
vigorous and enthusiastic. It was as if he had suddenly awakened to a whole world of new possibilities
and new opportunities.

Beneath his long, steady gaze her own eyelids fluttered and fell; her cheeks flushed a deeper
rose; her heart beat madly. She was furious at herself for these revealing weaknesses, and
yet she, too, was conscious of new, undreamed-of possibilities, sweet, poignantly sweet.

"Pearl," his voice was low, shaken by the emotion which had overtaken both of them, "do you
know that, as far as you and I are concerned, we are the only living human beings in all our
world?"

She looked at him and, unknown to herself, her face still held its glow of rapture; her eyes
were pools of love.

Her little rill of laughter was broken and shaken as falling water. "The sheriff didn't get
us, and yet we're prisoners, prisoners of the snow."

"And you, my jailer, will you be kind to me?" But there was nothing pleading in his tone. It
rang instead with exultant triumph.

"Why, Pearl"--a virile note of power as if some long-dreamed-of mastery were his at last swelled
like a diapason through his voice--"we're in for a thaw, a big thaw, but it will take time
to melt down that mountain out there in the crevasse; and you and I are here--alone--for a
fortnight, at least a fortnight." He emphasized the words, lingering over them as if they afforded
him delight.

"A fortnight! Here! Alone with you!" she cried. "Never, never. There must be a way--" she murmured
confusedly and ran to the window to hide her agitation and embarrassment, pulling the curtain
hastily aside and looking out unseeingly over the hills. She was trembling from head to foot.

The wind had risen and was wailing and shrieking over the bare hill and the air was dim with
flying snow; but the spring that hours before had kissed her cheek and touched her lips like
a song rose now in Pearl's heart. She pressed her tightly clasped hands against her breast
and closed her eyes. A new world! And she and Harry were in it together--and alone.

CHAPTER XIV

The dawns rose, the suns set, after the avalanche as before, and Pearl and Seagreave, alone
in the cabin, isolated from the world of human beings, took up their lives together, together
and yet apart, in the great, encompassing silence of this white and winter-locked world.

Winter-locked, yes, but all the mighty, unseen forces of Nature were set toward spring. Nothing
could stop or retard them now. Under sullen, lowering skies; beneath the blasts which swept
down from the peaks; in spite of flying snow; unseen, unsuspected, in the darkness and stillness
and warmth of the earth, the transformation was going on. The tender, young banners of green
were almost ready for the decking of the trees, and almost completed was the weaving of pink
and blue and lavender carpets of wild flowers for the hillsides.

And the spring that had arisen glorious in Pearl's heart when she had realized that she and
Harry were prisoners of the avalanche was still resurgent. For the first day or two of their
isolation she lived, breathed, moved in the splendor of her heart's dream. It encompassed her
with the warmth and radiance of a flood of sunshine.

In spite of her protests and appeals, Seagreave would not permit her to help much with the
household tasks, but busied himself almost constantly with them, maintaining with a sort of
methodical pleasure the inspired order of his cabin. It is possible that he gave to each task
a more exhaustive and undeviating attention than even he considered necessary, and this to
cover the sense of embarrassment he felt in adapting himself not only to this pervasive, feminine
presence, but to the exigencies of an unwonted companionship hedged about with restrictions.

He often felt as if he were entertaining a bird of brilliant tropical plumage in his cabin,
as if it had flown thither from glowing southern lands and brought with it sensuous memories
of color and fragrance, and wafts of sandalwood.

Sometimes he and Pearl walked about on the barren hillside, constantly washed more bare of
snow by the daily rains which had begun to fall, and sometimes he read aloud to her a little,
but in spite of Pearl's intelligence she had never cared much for books. She craved no record
of another's emotions and struggles and passions. No life at second hand for her. She was absorbed
in the living.

But if in the day there were many tasks to be done, and Harry could occupy more or less time
in the hewing of wood and carrying of water, and all of the practical duties which that phrase
may stand for, there were long evenings when he and Pearl sat in the firelight, their speech
and their silence alike punctuated by the wail of the mountain wind about the cabin and the
singing of the burning logs upon the hearth.

And it was during those evening hours that Seagreave felt most the shyness which her constant
presence induced in him. By day he busied himself in securing her comfort, but by night he
was tormented by his own chivalrous and fastidious thought of her, by his desire to reassure
her mind, without words, if possible, as to the consequences of their isolation.

But sometimes after he had lighted her candle and she had said good-night, and had entered
the little room where she slept, he would either sit beside the glowing embers or else build
up afresh the great fire which was never permitted to die out night or day during the winter
months, his thoughts full of her, dwelling on her, clinging to the memories of the day.

José's personality had been neither ubiquitous nor dominating. Seagreave had noticed him no
more about the cabin than he had the little mountain brook which purled its way down the hill;
but now his housemate was feminine, and with every passing hour he was more conscious of it.
At night, after Pearl had gone to bed, he felt her presence as definitely as though she were
still there. Some quality of her individuality lingered and haunted the room and haunted his
thoughts as the sweet, unfamiliar odor of an exotic blossom permeates the atmosphere and remains,
even when the flower is gone.

And as for Pearl, whether she walked on the barren hillsides or dreamed by the fire, or stood
at the window watching Harry chop wood or carry water from the rushing mountain brook, her
mind held but one thought, her heart but one image--him.

The studious abstraction, the ordered calm which characterized Seagreave's cabin, made fragrant
by burning pine logs and fresh with the cold winds from the mountain tops, had altered by imperceptible
and subtle gradations until the atmosphere was now strangely electrical, throbbing with vital
life, glowing with warmth and color. In outer semblance nothing was changed, no more than was
the appearance of the world outside, and yet beneath the surface of the lives in the cabin,
as beneath the surface of the earth without, all the mighty forces of Nature were bent to one end.

Without, the spring thaws which were to melt down the mountain of snow in the ravine below
were no longer presaged, but at hand. The rain fell for hours each day, but the dull and weeping
skies, the heavy air, oppressed Seagreave's spirits and made him now sad and listless, but
for the most part curiously restless.

Strive as he would, he could not escape nor ignore it, this atmosphere of the exotic which
filled his cabin, the atmosphere of Pearl's beauty and magnetism and of her love for him. He
did not recognize it as that. He only felt it as some strange, disturbing element which, while
it troubled his thought, yet claimed it. His growing love for her filled him with a sort of
terror. It seemed to him a mounting tide which would sweep him, he knew not whither, and with
all the strength of his nature he struggled to hold to the resolution he had made the first
day they were alone in the cabin, not to press his love upon her until she had left the shelter
of his roof and was back again with her father.

One evening the two sat in the cabin together, as usual, Seagreave on one side of the fire
reading--that is, his eyes were upon the book and he seemed apparently absorbed in its contents--but
in reality his entire thought was focused upon Pearl, who sat opposite him in a low chair,
her hands clasped idly in her lap, and he struggled desperately to maintain his attitude of
friendly comradeship when he addressed her.

The leaping of the flames on the hearth made quaint arabesques of shadow on the rough walls
and the wind sighed and sobbed in the chimney. Thus they sat for an hour or two in silence
and then Seagreave lifted his eyes and stole one of his swift and frequent glances at Pearl.
Something he saw riveted his attention and he continued to gaze, forgetful of his book, of
his past resolutions, of anything in the world but her.

She was just loosening the cord which bound the throat of a small black leather bag, and while
he watched her she poured its contents into her lap and sat bending over a handful of loose
and sparkling jewels. She was not aware of his scrutiny, but sat in complete absorption, her
dark, shining head bent over them, lifting them, turning them this way and that to catch the
firelight, letting them trickle through her long, brown fingers.

There, sparkling in the fire-glow, was the desire of the world, the white, streaming flame
of diamonds, the heart's blood of rubies, and sapphires--the blue of the sea and the sky--all
their life and radiance imprisoned in a dew-drop.

"How beautiful they are!" he cried involuntarily, but what he really meant was, "How beautiful
you are!"

She started and looked up at him in surprise. "Yes, they are," she said. "I have been gathering
them for a long time. There are only a few, but every one is flawless."

"I never considered jewels before." He bent forward the better to see them. "I have often seen
women wear them, but I just regarded them as a part of their decoration. Yet I can understand
now why you love them. They are very beautiful, unset that way." He looked at her deeply. "But
I believe it is for some reason deeper than that that they have a fascination for you. You
are like them."

She let them fall like drops of rainbow water through her fingers; then she lifted her lashes.
"Am I hard and cold like them?" She sent darting and dazzling full in his eyes her baffling,
heart-shivering smile.

He did not answer at once, and she, still gazing at him, saw that he paled visibly, every tinge
of color receding from his face; his eyes, deep and dark, held hers, as if reading her soul
and demanding that she reveal the strange secrets of her nature.

The forces of life ready to burst through the harsh crust of the earth without and express
themselves in the innocent glory of flower and grass and tender, green leaves, and the sound
of birds, were now seeking expression through denser and more complex human avenues. All the
love, all the longing which Seagreave had so sternly suppressed during these days he and Pearl
had spent together, rose in his heart and threatened to sweep away in a mighty tide of elemental
impulses all of those resolutions of restraint to which he had clung so hardly.

He arose and leaned his arm on the mantel-piece, still gazing at her as if he could never withdraw
his eyes. "You are so--so beautiful," he stammered, scarcely knowing what he said. "The world
will claim you. You have so much to give it and all your nature, all your heart turns to it.
You will soon forget this hut in the mountains, and--and all that it has meant." He buried
his head in his arms.

She, too, rose and laid the handful of her jewels on the table without another glance at them.
"These mountains!" She threw wide her arms and drew a long, ecstatic breath. She came near
to him and touched his arm. "I hated them once, I love them now." She smiled up at him, her
darkly slumbrous, scarlet-lipped smile.

He leaned toward her as if to clasp her close, but the vows he had sworn to himself a thousand
times since she had been in his cabin alone with him still held him. Slowly he drew back and
with all the strength of his nature fought for self-control. He called upon every force of
his will, and in that supreme moment his face hardened to the appearance of a sculptured mask;
all of its finely-drawn outlines seemed set in stone.

She turned angry shoulders to him and stirred the stones on the table with impatient fingers
until they rolled about, flashing darts of light. Symbols of power, of material and deadening
splendor; eternal accompaniments of imperial magnificence! The sapphires sang triumph, the
diamonds conquest, the rubies passionate and fulfilled love.

"They are what you really care for." He spoke huskily; his voice sounded thick and uncertain
in his ears. "That and--and your wonderful dancing, and applause--and success and money. It's
natural that you should--but it all makes me realize--clearly, that I can't even try to force
myself into your life. There's no place for me. Even--even if you were kind--you sometimes
seem to--to--to suggest that you would be--I'd be just a useless cog, soon to be dropped. It's
all complete without me. But, for God's sake, I'm begging you, I'm begging you, Pearl, not
to be kind to me for the rest of the time that we're here together."

"And what about me?" she flashed. "You've thought everything out from your own side, and you've
just been telling it. Don't you think I've got a side, too? I guess so."

He looked at her in surprise, the emotion that had changed and broken his expression fading
into wonderment and puzzle.

"What do you mean?" he asked.

"Kiss me, and I'll show you," she said audaciously. All the allurement, the softness and sweetness
of the south was in her mouth and eyes.

"How can we go on like this?" His voice was a mere broken whisper. He yearned to her, leaned
toward her, and yet refrained from holding her.

"Like this," she murmured, and threw her arms about him and laid her head on his heart, her
face upturned to his.

"I told you"--so close was she held that she scarcely knew that she was breathing--"I told
you--that if I once held you in my arms I'd never let you go."

"You may have told yourself; you never told me before. But I'm content."

"Content! That's no word for this," he cried between kisses. The mounting tide he had feared
had become a mighty torrent sweeping away all his carefully built up mental barriers, and with
that obliterating flood came a sense of power and freedom. All the youth in his heart rose
and claimed its share of life and love and happiness.

"Let me go," she said at last, and drew away from him, flushed as a dawn and rapturous as a
sunrise.

"No, never again," and stretched out his arms, but she slipped behind the table, putting it
between them. "Sit down," she commanded, "and build up the fire. I want to talk, talk a long
time, all night maybe."

"I hope so," he said ardently, and, obeying her, stooped to place fresh logs on the embers.
"But what is there to talk about? We've said and will continue to say all there is in the world
worth saying. I love you. Do you love me?"

"Maybe you won't want to say that after you've heard me." She had leaned forward, her arms
on her knees, her eyes on the flames which leaped from dry twig to dry twig of the burning
logs and on the shower of sparks which every minute or so swept up the chimney.

"You hit it off pretty well when you said that all I really cared for was money and jewels
and my dancing and the big audiences and all that." Her eyes had narrowed so that the gleaming
light that shone through her lashes was like a mere line of fire. "You see, I got to play the
game. I got to. Nothing but winning and winning big ever's going to suit me. I saw that when
I was awful young. I sort of looked out on life and it seemed to me that most people spent
their lives like flies, flying around a while without any purpose, trying to buzz in the sun
if they could, and by and by dropping off the window pane."

"Nothing but winning will suit you," he said drearily. "You are only repeating what I told
you." All the life, the passion had gone out of his voice. "And I'm no prize, heaven knows!"

"I ain't through yet," she said. "I never did talk much. I guess I'm going to talk more to-night
than I ever talked in my life, but I always saw everything that was going on around me, and
it didn't take me long to make out that all you'll get in life is a kick and a crust if you
haven't got some kind of power in your hands."

"God, you're hard, hard as iron!" The room rang with the echoes of his mirthless laughter.
"Five, three minutes ago, you were in my arms, soft, yielding, trembling, giving me back kiss
for kiss, and now you sit there expounding your merciless philosophy."

"It ain't me that's merciless," she returned, apparently unmoved, "it's life. You think my
dancing's great, so does everybody; so it is. Well, it didn't grow. I made it." Here she lifted
her head with pride, and folded her arms on her chest. "Maybe you don't think it took some
training. Maybe you don't think it took some will and grit when I was a little kid to keep
right on at my exercises when I ached so bad that the tears would run down my cheeks all the
time I was at them. My mother knew that you had to begin young and keep at 'em all the time,
but mom never would have had the nerve to keep me to it. She used often to cry with me.

"When I was a girl I'd liked to have had a good time, just in that careless way like other
girls, but I gave that up, too, so's I could work at my dancing. When I'd get tired and blue
I'd look at the stones I'd begun to collect with the money I'd earned. I'm hard, yes, I guess
you're right. I guess you got to have a streak of hardness in you to be one of the biggest
dancers in the world, or to be the biggest anything, but"--here she ran across the room and
was down on her knees beside his chair--"I'm not hard any longer. Those jewels there," pointing
to the table behind her, "they don't mean a thing to me any longer, nor my dancing, either,
nor money, nor applause, nor anything in the world but you."

He shrank away from her as if he feared the subduing magnetism of her touch. "The useless cog
to drop away when you get tired of him! I told you your life was all rounded and complete."

"It's not," she cried passionately, "without love. Without your love. I've got it and you can't
take it away from me."

He brushed the wing of hair back from his pallid face. "My love!" His voice seemed to drip
the bitterness of gall. "Where in heaven's name is there any place for it?"

"There isn't much room for anything else," she returned, "and that's the truth. I've told you
that all those things that you say make my life complete, don't mean that," she snapped her
long fingers, "not that to me any more. I've told you that I'd give them all up for you if
you asked me, but," and here she swept to her feet, as if upborne by a rush of earnestness
so intense and deeply felt that it was in itself a passion, "but I'll give 'em up, for it's
a lot to give, for the man I know you are and--and not for the man that's been shirking life."

Since the first moments after she had begun to voice her experiences, and what he called her
merciless philosophy, he had crumpled down in his chair, and when she had sprung up, he had
risen perfunctorily and wearily to his feet, but at her last words he had straightened up as
if involuntarily every muscle grew tense, an outward and visible indication of his mental attitude.
Inherited and traditional pride was in the haughty and surprised uplift of his head; a bright
flush had risen on his cheek and his eyes sparkled with a thousand wounded and angry reflections.

Whether or not she had intended to produce this effect by her words, she was undaunted by it,
and went on: "José tells me that you got a big place in England, just waiting for you to come
and claim it, and you quit it and everything there because a girl turned you down. It was sure
a baby act."

"I--" he began to interrupt her. There were few men who would have cared to ignore that chilled
steel quality of Seagreave's voice or, for the matter of that, the chilled steel look on his face.

But there were certain emotions the Pearl had never known, and they included remorse and fear.
"I ain't finished yet," the gesture with which she imposed his silence held her accustomed
languor. "I got to say that the man--that's you--that fought all through the Boer war was no
shirker, and the man who did some of the things you did in India--you got some kind of a medal,
didn't you?--what was it José called you?--soldier of fortune--well, you weren't a quitter,
anyway."

She stretched out her arms to him and smiled, her compelling heart-shattering smile. Ardor
enveloped her like an aura; the beauty and color of her were like fragrance on the air. "That's
the kind of man I want to marry, Harry, not a man that's willing to live outside of life and
work, and stay dead and buried here in these mountains."

He did not bend to her by an inch. Her smiles and her ardor splintered against chilled steel
and fell unheeded. "Is there anything else?" he asked, after a slight interval of silence,
during which he had the appearance of waiting with a pronounced and punctilious courtesy for
further words from her.

She made no answer, merely continued to look at him, but he, apparently unmindful and indifferent
to that gaze, lifted his book from the table beside him and, still standing, because she did
so, began to read.

For a moment or two she seemed dazed and then, with trembling fingers, she gathered up her
jewels and placed them in the little black bag.

This task accomplished, she started with all the scornful grace, the indifferent languor of
a Spanish duchess to sweep from the room, but in passing him and noting him still absorbed
in his book, her hot blood flushed her cheek, her eyes glittered with angry fire. Her slight
pause caused him to look up and, seeing the anger on her face, he smiled amusedly, insufferably.
The next second she sprang at him like a cat and slapped him across his insolently smiling
face, and then flung Spanish oaths at him with such force and heat that they seemed to splutter
in falling upon the chill of the air. Then she flashed from the room.

But the maddening smile still lingered on his lips as he bent to pick up the book her blow
had sent flying to the floor. And, still smiling, he stood for a moment caressing the white
dents her fingers had left on his cheek. Finally he replenished the fire, filled and lighted
his pipe and, drawing his chair near to the hearth, sat, thinking, thinking, the greater part
of the night.

Pearl was out early the next morning, and walked halfway down the hill. When she returned to
the cabin she found Seagreave sitting in his chair by the hearth as if he had not moved during
the night; his haggard gaze was fixed on the dead ashes of the fire. Without speaking to him,
Pearl stooped down and, with some paper and bits of wood, began to build up a blaze again.

He peered at her a moment as if she were a vision, then got up very stiffly as if he had not
moved for hours, and began to assist her, mechanically following the usual routine of preparing
breakfast.

When it was ready they sat down opposite each other as was their custom, and made a pretense
of eating. With the exception of a perfunctory remark or so the meal passed in silence. Pearl
evidently had no intention of apologizing for her behavior of the night before. Her manner
toward him was that of one who had relegated him to the position of the tables and chairs,
and intended to take no more notice of him.

Taking it for granted that that was the relation she wished sustained between them, Seagreave
gravely adopted her attitude, and for the next few days if they spoke at all it was principally
about the work that was going on down at the crevasse. Never had Harry occupied himself so
constantly and so feverishly, for the most part outside the cabin, chopping and sawing diligently
at a huge pile of wood, and in his intervals of leisure he spent a great deal of time down
the hill by the mountain of snow, watching its almost magical vanishing.

"There is a great crowd down at the ravine to-night," he said to Pearl, one evening at supper.
"They are working with torches, and I think they will probably have some kind of a bridge swung
over by midnight. I managed to signal to them a while ago, and they know that we are safe now.
If--if you want to sit up to-night," his voice sounded strained and perfunctory, "I think you
could possibly get over before morning."

The shadow which had fallen upon her face in the last day or two deepened a little. "It will
be cold out there at night." She caught at the first excuse which came into her mind. "It will
be better to wait and go down after breakfast."

He acquiesced with a nod, but made no answer in words, and soon after he left the room, and
she, later, peeping cautiously out from the curtain behind the window, saw him walking back
and forth before the cabin.

It was an hour or two later when he opened the door and entered. She did not hear him. She
was standing, her elbow on the mantel-piece and her cheek on her hand, looking down into the
fire. His footsteps roused her from her reverie and she looked up, in that moment of surprise,
forgetful of self and therefore self-revealing. Thus she stood for one fleeting second, holding
him with her smile, her whole being seeming to rush out and meet and encompass him and embrace
him. Then her eyelashes drooped long and black on her cheek, and her face was all aflame with
color.

He stood still a second, breathing hard. Then from the shadow he hurled himself into that zone
of glowing firelight where she stood. A white flame passed over his face and lighted his eyes
with that burning, incandescent glow that only those cold, blue eyes can show. Primeval, all
preliminary bowing and scraping in the minuet of wooing ignored, he saw his heart's desire
and seized it, lifting the Pearl in his arms, crushing her against his breast, until she, dazed
for the moment, lay captured and captive.

But her second of surprised, involuntary non-resistance served her well. Harry looked into
her eyes and forgot his vigilance; and with a twist Pearl slipped through his arms and was
across the room. She stood against the wall of the cabin, her head thrown back, a smile on
her white lips, her eyes daring him.

Seagreave took no dares. It was a part of his creed. He was across the room in a step, his
arms outstretched as if to clasp her.

But Pearl held him with her eyes until at least she covered her face with her hands and wept
and leaned toward him, and again Seagreave caught her in his arms with a murmur of passionate
and inarticulate words. "I love you, I love you," he whispered, his lips seeking hers.

"Pearl, forgive me. I--I--forgot myself, forgive me. Why, you are as safe here as in your father's
cabin. It will never happen again. I'll never touch you again unless you let me. Why, Pearl,"
with a tremulous attempt at a joke, "for the rest of the time that we're here you can keep
me locked up in the other room if you want to, and just pass my food through the door now and
then when you feel like it."

"Oh, Harry," she was still sobbing, "I'm such a devil. All my life I've been trying to see
what I could get. I set out to make everything and everybody pay me, and I never got anything
but chaff; money and jewels and applause--all chaff. The only happiness is giving, and I want
to give, give, give to you. That's what I been longing to do ever since I loved you, and all
I could do was to call you names--a quitter and a shirker." She wept afresh. "And the worst
of it is I mean it, I wish I didn't, but I do."

"But you were right," he said, "good and right, too. You hurt my man's vanity, and I got nasty--sarcastic,
you know. I've got you to thank forever for bringing myself right home to me--showing me to
myself. I was a morbid, love-sick boy, who indulged in so much self-pity that he thought he
was a very fine romantic figure, running off from his responsibilities and burying himself
in the ends of the earth."

"I was jealous, too, of that girl you quit things for, that girl that was like violets and
white roses. I ain't like 'em."

"Jealous! You! It wasn't long that I remembered her, but you were right again--I liked that
life. I'd got used to it. The other kind seemed impossible to me--I've been a quitter and a
shirker--just what you called me--but I'm going back home to take it all up again, or if you
would rather, I'll stay here and work mines in these mountains, or help reclaim the desert--if
you'll marry me, Pearl."

"But I'm the Black Pearl--a dancer. I don't see how I can begin to be anything else now; but
I will, I'll be anything you ask me, Harry," throwing her arms about his neck, "I will."

He laughed and held her closer still. "I'll never ask you to be anything else. 'The Black Pearl--a
dancer,' that's enough for me. You shall have all the joy of your gift--its expression. I'm
not such a selfish animal as to ask you to give that up, so that I can keep you--you beautiful,
tropical bird--in a cage, just to gratify my sense of possession--and watch you mope and pine,
because I've kept you from your flights. No, sweetheart, you shall dance, and have your big
audiences that inspire you, and the applause you love ... and then you'll come back to me,
and I'll be waiting for you and working--always working. I promise you that, Pearl. But," fixing
determined eyes on her, "I'll not dangle around after you, and patch up your rows with your
managers, and engage your maids, nor be known as the Black Pearl's husband, by the Lord, no!
I'll do my own work in the world, and stand and fall by my own merit, if there's any in me.
But kiss me, Pearl, kiss me."

"Then it's the last kiss till to-morrow," she smiled, "for it's past midnight now."

The morning dawned, a blare of sunlight. Pearl, glancing from the window just before they ate
their early breakfast, could see that bridge was in place. Both she and Harry were quiet. It
was the last meal together in the cabin, and more than once tears filled her eyes and ran down
her cheeks as she made a pretense of eating. "They're happy tears, Harry, honest, they are,"
she assured him. "I guess I'm kind of locoed at the thought of seeing Pop and Bob and Hughie
again. Come on, let's hurry down now and meet them." She stood up and drained her coffee cup
and then threw her cape about her. "Come on." She held out her hand to him and smiled.

CHAPTER XV

The sun-flooded hillside showed plainly the path of the avalanche; blank, featureless it lay,
without sheltering tree or rock to diversify its bald monotony. But it was bare no longer,
for the brown earth was covering her nakedness with a delicate mist of green. Beyond the sweep
of the avalanche the maples were swinging their tassels, and the swelling buds of the oaks
and aspens showed that they were almost ready to burst into leaf; the air was full of bird
calls and fluttering wings, and the breeze, although chill, seemed ineffably soft in comparison
with its recent rigorous blasts.

Pearl and Seagreave had gone but a short distance from the cabin when suddenly Pearl shielded
her eyes with her hand. "Look," she cried excitedly, and pointed to two men who were standing
down by the bridge evidently awaiting them, "I can't quite see from here, but it is, it must
be, Bob and Pop."

She almost flew down the hill after that, and Seagreave, his face suddenly set in lines of
determination, kept pace with her. He had noticed, even if she had not, that those two motionless
figures at the bridge had not advanced one step to meet her, but were maintaining an attitude
portentously watchful, it seemed to him, and boding ill for the warmth and spontaneity of the
welcome she so evidently expected.

But Pearl appeared to see nothing of this, and as she drew near the two who awaited her, she
would have flown like a bird into her father's arms. But before she could throw her arms about
him he caught her wrists and pushed her back a step or two anything but gently.

"Why weren't you down at the bridge last night?" he asked sternly. The old man had changed
since the avalanche. There were anxious deep hollows about his eyes which were at once brighter
and more sunken than ever. His parchment skin looked livid and lifeless and his mouth had tightened
until it was drawn in and pinched.

"Why weren't you down at the gully waiting for us?" he asked again. "The bridge was across
at midnight. The boys have been working night and day to get you out, and this is the way you
act, hiding up there in that cabin like you'd as lief stay there as not."

"Yes, Pearl, why weren't you down to meet us?" Bob Flick spoke for the first time, his slow,
soft voice was placating and yet it was evident that his sympathies were with Gallito. "The
boys had the place all lit up with torches while they worked, and your Pop and I waited half
the night for you down here. Why didn't you come?" Neither of the men had so far even glanced
at Seagreave, but ignored him as thoroughly as if he were not there.

Pearl looked at Flick a moment in frowning incomprehension. Petted, spoiled child that she
was, she could not bear to be scolded where she had expected a rapturous welcome. From Flick
to her father she glanced, and then back again. "What's the matter with you two?" she cried.
"Are you mad just because I didn't come chasing down the hill in the dead of night? How did
I know that the boys were going to get the bridge across at midnight?"

"Because, if you'd been the sort of girl you ought to be, you wouldn't have stayed a minute
longer in that cabin than you could have helped. You'd have stood down by the gully all night
long just to show the folks in the camp that you wouldn't stay in that cabin after there was
any chance at all for you to get away," Gallito answered her before Bob Flick got a chance.
"What made you stay up there? You and him, too," he pointed one, long, gnarled forefinger at
Seagreave, "have got to answer me that question. And there's another one, too, and you'll answer
it."

Again Pearl stared at him, and again she turned her puzzled eyes on Bob Flick. Then, as the
meaning of their attitude flashed over her, she fell back a pace or two, her face grown white.
"Dios!" she murmured, with stiff lips, a sob rising in her throat.

Then she tossed high her head in hot resentment. Her mouth was set in a thin scarlet line of
obstinacy, her eyes burned, but their expression was unreadable. With a slow movement of her
body, expressing infinite scorn, she swung away from her father and her lover and, with her
eyes upon the far, blue ranges, superbly ignored them.

Bob Flick shot a warning glance at Gallito, who was about to speak, and took a hasty step forward.
"Look here, Pearl," he said conciliatingly, "don't mind your Pop. The strain on him's been
awful. It's been hard on all of us. You sure gave us some terrible days, not knowing whether
you were alive or dead, but we all kind of figured from the direction that the snow-slide took
that it missed the cabin, and we wouldn't believe anything else but that you were as much alive
as ever and as anxious to see us as we were to see you. And, Pearl, listen," striving to divert
her gaze from those dim, blue ranges, "we ain't been idle. There's some great news for you.
You tell her, Gallito."

"Yes," the Spaniard's tone softened a little and he lifted his head with a touch of pride,
"it sure is great news. I been in correspondence with Sweeney and he opened up the matter of
a contract again. I been dickering with him just the same as if we knew that you were safe
and alive. I wouldn't let myself think anything else; and the result, Pearl," he paused, his
eyes scanning her face, "the result is that he's just doubled his offer of last year and will
play you over a circuit twice as big, the cities only. How does that strike you?"

But there was no answering enthusiasm on Pearl's face, not even a gleam of interest. Gallito
and Flick looked at each other in dismay. Her indifference was genuine, they saw that clearly.
There was no affected disdain in her manner of receiving the news. It was simply a matter which
did not touch her at all.

Seeing this, a slow, burning flush crept up into her father's face, his jaws worked. "Pearl,
did you hear?" he demanded, "because if you didn't, you'd better pay attention, and pay attention
quick. I've accepted for you, given my word to Sweeney that if you were alive you'd take this
offer. And now you and me are going to leave Colina within a few hours, and you're going to
leave for good. Understand?"

She smiled in slow, indifferent scorn and answered nothing, and her attitude maddened Gallito.
"What do you mean by acting this way?" he cried. "Let's get down to it. Why weren't you down
at the gully last night? Wouldn't he let you?" Again he pointed an accusing finger at Seagreave,
who stood a little apart watching the scene with folded arms. "Pearl, you answer me, for I'm
going to ask you that question straight out now. Ain't you just as good as when you came?"

But Pearl's seven or seventeen devils were in full possession of her now, and one of them,
the demon of silence, stood her in good stead, for she knew intuitively that this attitude
of non-explanation would prove far more irritating to her inquisitors than the vials of her
wrath poured freely upon them.

But Gallito was in a white fury by this time. "By God!" he cried again, "you will answer me.
You will tell me, and tell me now."

"I'll be hanged first," she flashed the words at him as a snake darts its fangs.

"And I'll be hanged if you'll ask her such questions before me," cried Seagreave, speaking
for the first time.

Her father looked at him with a slow and bitter smile, then he gave a little nod of acrid comprehension.
"You keep out of this, Harry Seagreave," he said, in a low, cold, deadly voice. "This is between
the girl and me. Pearl, you come with me--now. We leave Colina, as I told you, within a few
hours. You come now." He took a step or two down the hill as if expecting that she would follow
him.

A wailing wind blew down from the peaks. The mocking bark of a coyote sounded near at hand
in those wild solitudes, a bird flew from one tree to another, and the sound of a breaking
twig was like a pistol shot.

Moments passed and still Pearl had not obeyed her father's command. It was not repeated, which
was characteristic of Gallito. He merely waited until at last she lifted her eyes and unwaveringly
met his. "I'm not going," she said clearly.

Harry made a quick, impetuous step toward her, but before he could reach her, her father had
caught her by the wrist again and swept her aside.

"Look here, Gallito," cried Seagreave, "since she won't explain, you've got to listen to me. I--"

"I've told you to keep out of this, Seagreave," interrupted Gallito, in his harsh, grating
voice. "I'll deal with you later."

But at the sound of Seagreave's voice the color had come back to Pearl's cheek, the light to
her eyes. Hands on hips, she swung her skirts and surveyed Bob Flick and her father with a
scornful, slanting gaze. "I didn't know that there was anybody in the world that would dare
ask me such questions, even you, Pop. And making arrangements with Sweeney without waiting
to consult me! And ordering me to leave Colina on two or three hours' notice! Dios!" She spread
her hands out on either side of her as if pushing away an impossible thing. "I can hardly believe
it. I didn't answer you, Pop, nor you, Bob, because I was trying hard to take things in. But
now," she turned to Seagreave, her head lifted higher yet in the glory of joy and pride, "I'm
not going to leave Colina--yet, and I'm not going to sign up with Sweeney; am I, Harry?"

Seagreave passed her father and was beside her in two strides. "You're going to do as you please,"
he said.

She leaned toward him, smiling, her fugitively sweet, tantalizing smile; and, oblivious of
the others, Seagreave caught her to him as if he would hold her against the world.

And, seeing this, Bob Flick turned and walked down the hill with never a backward glance.

Not so Gallito; his eyes had darkened, those fierce hawk's eyes; his face was livid. "Pearl,"
his voice grated in his throat, "you can't make a fool of both me and yourself like this. You
are a fool of a woman like all the rest, and because I have the bad luck to be your father
I must save you from your own madness. You've got your big chance, the chance you've been waiting
for, and you're not going to throw it away now, just because you been staying up in that cabin
alone with him until you've lost your wits about him." He indicated Seagreave with a contemptuous
jerk of the thumb.

"Seagreave," in cold fury, "you're a damned thief to take advantage of her this way. Now, Pearl,
you come on."

He seized her by the wrist and would have drawn her roughly from Harry's encircling arm. She
resisted, and Harry, in the strength of his indignation, unloosed the old man's grasp and drew
her hastily away. But the touch of his hands had roused in Gallito fresh rage, and with almost
unbelievable quickness he lifted his heavy, gnarled stick and swung it above Seagreave's head.
Harry leaped back, near, perilously near, the edge of the ravine. The soft, moist earth crumbled
beneath his feet; for a second he tottered on the edge, and then went down like a shot.

Pearl stood arrested in that first, quick rush of hers, frozen, gazing in wild unbelief at
the spot where Harry had disappeared. As for Gallito, he also gazed almost uncomprehendingly,
until the expression of surprise on his livid face gave way to a saturnine and vindictive satisfaction.

"He did it himself," he muttered, "the fool! I never touched him." Then, shrugging his shoulders
and spreading out his hands as if well content to leave the matter to fate, he turned and began
to walk down the hill, still muttering as he went.

This roused Pearl from her momentary trance. "Father," she cried wildly, "you must help me.
You tried to hurt him and now you've got to help me. We must get him. Father, father," she
babbled, running after him, "you must stay, you must help me, you must. You can't go and leave
him. Oh, stay, stay, and I'll do anything, anything in the world. I'll sign the contract. I'll
do anything."

But Gallito went on as if he did not hear her. His own belief was that Harry was done for.
There was not one chance in a thousand that he was alive, one chance in a million, considering
the depth of the ravine. Well, better so. His conscience was clear. He had not struck him,
but had merely lifted his stick in self-defense after Seagreave had laid hands on him. As for
Pearl, she would eventually turn to him and agree to his wishes, there was nothing else for
her to do. In the meantime, by leaving her to herself, he avoided the unpleasant sound and
sight of her grief and reproaches. Therefore, in spite of her passionate pleading, he went on.

And Pearl, finally realizing that she could hope nothing from him, turned and ran back to the
ravine. There she threw herself flat on the ground and, groaning and sobbing, drew herself
to the edge of the cliff and gazed down into those depths of purple shadow. Much of the snow
still lingered, and for a moment in the white, dazzling glare of the sunlight on the steep
walls, she could see nothing. Then, as her eye became accustomed to those flashing refractions
of light, she gave a loud, sobbing cry, her whole body became strangely limp and inert. For
one dreadful moment she feared that she was going to faint. Then she drew on all the strength
of her will and was herself again, ready in that moment of poignant relief to dare anything,
do anything to save him.

For quite plainly she saw Harry. Instead of whirling down into those impenetrable depths and
being buried in the mass of snow at the bottom, he had been caught almost miraculously on the
out-curving trunks of two or three young pine trees growing close together and springing from
a narrow out-cropping ledge of rock. It was not so very far down, at most not more than thirty
feet. "Harry," she cried, "Harry," sending her voice ringing down the chasm; but he did not
even stir at the sound, only the narrow walls gave back the echoes. The silence struck the
chill of a new terror to her heart, and she sprang to her feet, gazing wildly about her in
every direction.

"I must have help. I must have help," she muttered. But, oh, it would take so long to get men
from the camp, and all the time she would be gone he would be lying there silent and motionless,
perhaps--no, she shuddered, she would not even think the word.

Once more she sent her seeking, despairing gaze over the hillside, and then uttered a sharp,
muffled exclamation, for, rising above the jagged walls of the ravine, and not many feet away,
climbing, agilely and rapidly, she saw a man. A moment more and she bent forward in a state
half of relief and half of superstitious terror, muttering a prayer, almost believing that
it was a vision; and then, with a relief beyond all speech, she saw that it was José. She could
not be mistaken.

He had pulled himself over the cliff by this time and had cautiously risen to his feet. Up
and down the hill and in every direction he sent his sweeping, careful gaze, his far-sighted
eyes taking in every detail of the landscape. Then he came toward Pearl, over the bare, brown
earth, running low.

"Oh, José, José," she cried, almost hysterical in her relief, "Harry is down there," pointing
to the cliff, "hurt, and you must help me get him up, you must."

"Carramba! So that was the noise and screaming I heard in my rock cell yonder, just as I was
about to creep out and take a little air. I would not have dared to come so far if I had not
seen you here alone." He threw himself on the ground and looked over the cliff. "Saints and
devils! It is true. Poor Harry! But you and I cannot get him up alone."

"But we can, we must," she cried imperatively. "Go to his cabin quickly and bring some ropes.
There is plenty of strong rope there. You can run more quickly than I. Go."

"But the risk." José shook his head dubiously. "I shall be in full sight all the way."

"What of it?" she cried frantically. "The moments pass and we are doing nothing. No one will
see you. Oh, go." Then, as he still hesitated, a sudden thought struck her. She tore open the
neck of her gown and drew out the little black leather bag of loose stones. "Look!" she pulled
it open and held it out to him that he might see the gleaming jewels inside. "There, will that
make it worth your while? They are yours, José, if you will only go."

With a low exclamation of surprise and admiration, José bent over them. Then he looked at Pearl,
his eyes alive with darting gleams of avarice. He would have risked his life any time, almost
without a thought, in order to gain them, and here without his even lifting a finger, they
had fallen into his hands, straight out of heaven. It was evidently a reward for the patience
with which he had borne the long days that he had lain hidden in Gallito's rock-hewn chamber
in the Mont d'Or.

"It shall never be said of Crop-eared José that he left a friend in distress," he exclaimed
virtuously, and, stuffing the little bag in his pocket, sped up the hill.

Uttering broken expressions of relief, Pearl again threw herself flat on the ground and gazed
over the edge of the cliff. And, as she lay thus, moaning out passionately tender words which
Harry, lying motionless and unconscious, could not hear, a sudden thought struck her. She would
go to him. She looked down, far down where those rocky walls lost themselves in indefinite
hazes and shuddered; but another glance at Harry and courage flowed to her again. She saw where,
on the narrow projecting ledge and on the trunks of those up-springing pines, she could get
a foothold near him, if it were but possible for her to climb down. Scanning the wall closely,
it seemed to her rough and jagged enough for her to do so with comparative safety.

Just as she reached this decision, she heard a faint holloo from the same direction in which
José had come and, turning her head quickly, she saw Mrs. Nitschkan hastening over the hill
toward her.

"Gosh a'mighty!" exclaimed the gypsy, when she had come within speaking distance. "What kind
of a howdy-do is this? I brought up a bite for José to eat and, although I've stood down there
whistling my head off, he never poked his head out of the ground, the jack-rabbit! And the
next thing I see is you lying flat in the mud."

"Oh, Nitschkan!" Tears of relief were streaming down Pearl's face. "Thank God that you've come.
Harry fell over the cliff. We can see him, and José's gone to the cabin to get ropes."

With many exclamations of surprise Mrs. Nitschkan peered over the edge of the ravine. "Saved
by them little sticks of pine trees and a piece of rock no wider than my foot! Ain't that the
workings of Providence for you!"

"Is he--is he--do you think he is--" Pearl's voice broke in anguish.

"No, I don't. He ain't lookin' that way," said Mrs. Nitschkan, with such force and heartiness
that Pearl was immediately reassured. "He's jus' got the sense knocked out of him. I don't
jus' see yet how we're goin' to get the ropes fastened to him, so's he can be drug up."

"I'm going down to him. I'll fasten them."

"You! And yet I don't know but what it ain't best. It'll take all the strength José and I've
got to draw him up careful and not go bumping him too much against the rocks."

Pearl took off her shoes, then, shutting her lips tightly and reassuring herself with the knowledge
that the rock was rough and she was sure-footed, she lowered herself over the side of the ravine
and reached for a foothold. Presently she found it, and then another. Slowly, with cut and
bleeding hands, she made her way down. Half way, perhaps, she grasped a little bush which seemed
to spring securely from the cliff and held tightly to this until she could grasp another jutting
point of rock and then another bush, until at last, with a great sobbing sigh, she found her
feet planted on what seemed sure ground. It was the trunks and the outspreading branches of
the same pine trees which held Seagreave. She took a second to draw a long breath, and then,
holding cautiously to a little branch, she bent over him.

With infinite tenderness she attempted to straighten out one leg which was doubled beneath
him, but he moaned and sighed so that she desisted, seeing from the limp way that it lay that
it was broken. He had evidently fallen on his back; and like a dagger zig-zagging its way through
her heart was the thought, "What if that, too, were broken?"

Oh, how should they get him up without injuring him further and cruelly hurting him with the
ropes. And he must be so cold. She shivered herself in the damp, icy air of this ravine. She
called up to Mrs. Nitschkan to swing down to her her long cape, which she had discarded before
beginning her climb. The gypsy did so carefully, but just as she let the end of it go a gust
of wind swept it in slow circles down the ravine.

Mrs. Nitschkan uttered more or less profane exclamations of disgust; but Pearl said nothing.
After her first feeling of intense disappointment, a new idea had come to her, and she hastened
to act upon it. As quickly as she could with her torn fingers she unfastened her gown and slipped
out of it, and then, unheeding Mrs. Nitschkan, who was scolding her like a magpie, she threw
it over Seagreave, tucking it about him as best she could. The breath of the snow-damp air
upon her shoulders and arms was like a bath of ice water, but she scarcely noticed it, for
she heard Mrs. Nitschkan welcoming José.

He and the gypsy immediately began swinging great coils of rope over the cliff.

"Can you get the ropes under him, Pearl, and tie 'em in a kind of cradle?" called Mrs. Nitschkan.

"Of course," she answered, "if you and José will tell me how."

Then, under their direction, she managed to bind the ropes securely about Seagreave, moaning
and weeping herself at the pain she evidently caused him, although he did not so far recover
consciousness as to realize what was happening to him. When she had finished, she caught another
swinging end of rope which they threw her and climbed up the cliff. She took a moment or two
to get her breath, and then slowly and with all the care possible under the circumstances,
they drew Seagreave up.

"Dios!" cried José, panting, "it is well that you two are so strong, because we have yet to
get him to the cabin. Fortunately I, also, have great strength."

After some discussion it was finally decided that Pearl was to hasten on ahead and build up
the fires and heat water, while Mrs. Nitschkan and José carried Harry up the hill.

It was for them a slow and difficult progress, but the cabin was finally reached and the gypsy
and José laid him on his bed, undressed him and examined his injuries.

Presently Mrs. Nitschkan came into the outer room, where Pearl cowered beside the fire, her
hands over her face. She caught imploringly at the other woman's skirt. "Oh, Nitschkan, what
is it? Will he live? Tell me, tell me, quick."

"Things might be better and they might be worse, but," with rough good will, "you ain't no
call to wear mourning yet. His back ain't hurt serious, but his left leg and his right arm
are both broken and he's an awful lot cut and bruised, especially about the back and the head.
I can set a leg myself, as good as most, and many a one have I done, but those that I've set
'em for don't always seem to have as good use of their limbs after as before. So if you want
him as good as new again, you'd better have a doctor."

"Yes," agreed José, who had come into the room. "They are bad breaks. I, too, can set a leg
or an arm, but, as you say, Nitschkan, those for whom I have done it have usually been ungrateful
enough not to use them right."

Pearl staggered to her feet. "I will go," she said, "if you two will only stay here and look
after him, while I am gone. Oh dear José, promise me that you will not leave Nitschkan alone.
You can hide here in the cabin when you see me coming with the doctor."

José's fingers touched the little black bag in his pocket. "Saints and devils!" he cried, expanding
his chest, "only a dog would refuse you. Of course I will stay."

CHAPTER XVI

For the first few weeks after Harry's accident Pearl's consciousness of the external events
in the world beyond the confines of the four walls of the cabin seemed obliterated. She could
never remember afterward whether the rain fell or the days were flooded with sunshine. All
of her energies and interests were absorbed in one issue--his recovery. Fortunately, his injuries
proved more painful than dangerous, and were necessarily slow in the mending; but the nursing
was arduous, and Pearl might have found it difficult indeed had it not been for the assistance
of the two mountain women and José.

It would be another matter to define correctly the motives that impelled that debonair bandit
to stand by her side so manfully in the face of Gallito's wrath and reiterated prohibitions.
It might have been a conscientious wish to earn the jewels, over the possession of which he
had not ceased to gloat, or it might have been an impish desire to annoy Gallito. Again, it
might have been gratitude toward Seagreave, sympathy with the Pearl, or, as easily the revolt
of José's volatile nature against the monotony of life in the narrow confines of his rock chamber.

But to José's danger, as to the passing days, Pearl was alike oblivious, and it was not until
Harry was able to sit up again for brief periods, that she became aware of times and seasons,
of other persons and of the world of human interests and reactions. She awoke to a realization
of these facts with a sort of wonder. She looked abroad over the hillsides and saw a new world.
The long-awaited spring had sped up from the valleys of mist, and at the wave of her white
wand the mountains had bloomed with a delicate iridescence--the luster on young leaves and
shining blades of grass. It was then that she also began to apprehend something of the nature
of José's difficulties.

"I must be more virtuous than I thought," he explained to her one day, not without a touch
of complacence, "for if the Devil were truly my friend, he would fly away with your father.
Those hawk's eyes of his are ever on me and he orders me daily not to leave the mine. If I
could but cook for him," he added mournfully, "he would soon see reason, for," with customary
boastfulness, "I have yet to see the man whose opinions I could not change with a single dish.
I, Crop-eared José, have won freedom more than once on an omelette, and have gained the sympathy
and interest of those set against me, with a single sauce. See, he even threatens me because
I am true to my friends, but," and here he adopted his most wheedling tone, "if you only would
make up with him, and I could but cook him one supper, here in this cabin, and let him win
two or three games at cards from me, all would be well again."

"Ah, if I only could," sighed Pearl, "but he wouldn't listen to me unless I consented to leave
Harry and sign with Sweeney. You know how set he is, when he makes his mind up. No, he won't
listen to me unless I give in about this contract."

José nodded without speaking. For once he appeared to be turning something over in his mind.
In truth, he was; he felt now that his comfort and safety very largely depended upon a reconciliation
between Pearl and her father, and he was prepared to take long chances in an attempt to effect
this. Therefore he informed Gallito that from certain remarks Pearl had made from time to time,
he, José, was convinced that her heart was greatly softened toward her father, and that for
his part he was also convinced that she desired nothing more than to see Gallito again.

The old Spaniard knew José too well to put much faith in any of his utterances, but, nevertheless,
inspired by a vague hope that Pearl might have repented her decision and wearied of her bargain,
he climbed the hill to Seagreave's cabin the next afternoon to see her.

Harry had been sitting up longer than usual that day, and José and Pearl had helped him back
to his couch in the inner room, where he now lay asleep, and Pearl had resumed her seat in
the open door, where she sat gazing out at the wonderful panorama spread before her and idly
enjoying the sight, the sound, the fragrance of early summer. Blue ranges, an infinite succession
of them, stretching away to an illimitable and expanding horizon, floating in faint pearl hazes,
but the hills near at hand were vividly green, their varied monotony of tone broken here and
there by great waves of pink and blue wild flowers. Birds were flying from tree to tree, calling
and singing, and there fell pleasantly upon Pearl's ears the ripple and splash of the mountain
brook. The joy in her heart at Harry's recovery mingled pleasantly with nature's joy in her
prodigal, flowering summer.

But all this harmonious blending of natural sounds and sights was broken by the sudden, harsh
intrusion of human discord. Hearing footsteps near at hand, Pearl turned quickly to see her
father standing almost at her elbow. Lean, gnarled, grizzled and thorny as ever, he was gazing
searchingly at her from under his overhanging, bushy brows.

So unexpected was the sight of him that Pearl showed plainly her uncontrollable surprise, which,
courageous as she was, was not without a faint touch of fear. Her upper lip drew back from
her teeth at the corners of the mouth and the frown so like his own darkened her brow. Rising,
she had sprung to the doorway, stretching her arms from post to post as if to prevent him from
entering, and he, noting that unconscious attitude of protection for the one within, smiled sourly.

"What are you doing here?" Her voice was harsh and so low that it was barely audible.

"No harm to you or him, either, so don't be scared. I got more important business in hand.
I didn't come to quarrel with you, Pearl. I came to talk to you like you were a sensible girl."
He had been rolling a cigarette between his fingers, and now he lighted it, and for a moment
watched the smoke wreaths drift upward.

"Patience takes most of the tricks in life, I've learned, so I waited until I heard that he
was all right again"--he jerked his thumb toward the cabin--"and then I waited until you had
time to think, and that's all I'm here to ask you to do, my girl, think."

Again he gazed deeply at her, nodding his head as if to emphasize his words. Gallito could
be impressive, even magnetic when he chose, and he chose now.

"I can think a-plenty," returned Pearl curtly, "but what is it you want me to study about now?
If it's about signing up with Sweeney, I can tell you once and forever that it's no use. You're
just wasting your breath."

His face darkened a little, his eyes gave one quick, wicked flash, but he controlled his temper.
"Maybe, maybe," he said placatingly, "but that ain't all I came to talk about. I guess I've
lived long enough to know that it's no use to talk to a woman about her interests when she's
lost her head about some man." He showed his teeth in a wolfish and contemptuous smile. "No,
I ain't such a fool as to waste my breath that way. You are an awful headstrong and wilful
girl. Carraja! I do not know where you get such qualities. But somewhere back in your head
you have inherited from me, your father, a grain of sense and reason, and because of that I
come here to-day, not to try and coax you, no, I know better than that, but to talk to you
as man to man." He paused here as if to let some underlying meaning in his words impress her,
and she, conscious of this, felt a sudden shiver of apprehension run over her, a momentary
despair, as if she were being entangled in some yet invisible net whose meshes were being drawn
tight about her. A quick glance at Gallito failed to restore her confidence. There was a look
upon his face which did not betoken any expectation of defeat. Again she shivered; he had spoken
truly, he was not one to plead, and he would not be here unless he felt that he was in possession
of certain arguments which must inevitably coerce her to yield.

"Now, Pearl," his tone was still placating, "for your own sake and for the sake of your future,
I am not willing that you should miss this great offer which Sweeney has made you. You have
already treated him badly once. He knows he cannot depend on you. How many times do you think
he will stand that? You can't afford to do it. I have been holding him off and holding him
off until I can't do it any more, and we must now come to a final agreement. And one thing
more," he stopped a second to light another cigarette, "what about Hughie? You and he have
worked out a lot of dances together. He's got his heart set on traveling with you and playing
for you. I don't see how you got the heart to spoil all his plans." For the first time there
was a touch of real emotion in his voice; it was Hughie, not Pearl, who held the first place
in his heart.

A quiver passed over Pearl's face. "Oh, I am sorry about Hughie," she cried, "but what can
I do? I can't leave Harry. It's no use asking me to do that." She looked up at Gallito and,
in spite of her tears, there was an immovable resolve on her face and, seeing this, a slow,
dark flush crept up her father's cheeks.

"Listen, Pearl," he said, and although he still held the manner of reasoning amicably with
her, there was a touch of iron in his grating voice, "I'm here to make terms with you and to
keep the relations which should be between father and daughter, but there are many things to
consider when a girl is as obstinate as a pig. Then it is her father's duty to decide for her
and to see that she does what an obedient and well-brought up girl should do, and he must use
what means are in his power to make her see the right way."

"There are no means in your power to make me see things differently," she said, "yours or anybody
else's."

"So!" he said slowly, and flicked the ashes from his cigarette with a hand which trembled slightly.
"But all my cards are not played yet. You think that everything shall go your way, but that
is not life; no, that is not life. Since you have none of the feelings of respect and obedience
which a child should have for a parent, it shall be a game between us. Now, at once, I will
play my trump card." There was a grim and saturnine triumph in his voice. "José!"

She started and looked at him askance, puzzled and yet fearful. "José!" she repeated uncertainly.

"Yes, José. José has been useful to you, and José has spent all his time with you and him."
He nodded his head in the direction of the inner room. "I have warned him." There was a quiver
of passion and resentment in his voice. "I have pointed out to him again and again the risks
that he was running not only for himself, but me. Yet for me--me who has befriended him at
the risk of my own life, who has kept him in my cabin for many months, he has no thought, no
gratitude. That all goes to Seagreave, Seagreave who stole you and who now lies strapped in
his bed unable to help you or José or any one else. Well, let Seagreave save him now. And how?"
his harsh, mirthless laughter rang out. "Yes, how? Does Seagreave know the secret trails over
the mountains? Not he. Then how is our dear José to escape? Will you engage to get him safely
out of Colina on a railroad train? I think not. Remember there is a big price on his head."

Pearl had shrunk back from him while he was speaking, both horror and fright on her face. "But
you can't do that for your own sake," she cried. "It will then be known that you have kept
José all these months, and that it was he who escaped the night I danced. Do you think the
sheriff will forgive you that you lied to him and fooled him? I guess not. And then you sheltered
José and hid him after that. On your own account you can't let him be taken."

Gallito smiled in unpleasant triumph. "If I should turn state's evidence for so notorious a
criminal as Crop-eared José I should certainly get immunity myself. I was weak, yes, in my
unfortunate desire to reform a fellow countryman, but finding all my efforts hopeless, I at
last saw my duty and gave him up."

For the moment fear almost overcame Pearl, and then her high spirit flared. "And you would
give poor José up," she said. "I would never have believed it, and yet I see you really would
do it, just to have me obey your will. But you can't do it, and you won't do it. I tell you
now, if you even dare threaten such a thing, I will send for the sheriff and I will tell him
the whole story. I will let him know what you are. And more, too"--she made quick steps toward
him--"I will have you arrested for assaulting Harry."

"Ho, ho!" he laughed loudly. "Self-defense, my girl, self-defense. Who could prove anything
else? Who would take your word under the circumstances?"

"But I will tell more, much more," she cried, all aflame now. "I will tell of all the cut-throats
and thieves you have sheltered in your cabin from time to time. I know their names and I will
prove what I say. I will show them the chamber in the mine where José is hiding. What will
they think of that? You have a high standing in Colina and in other places. You are respected.
Are you willing to give all that up just so you can force me to sign with Sweeney? I don't
believe it, I won't believe it. But as sure as you don't help José to escape, so sure will
I do what I say. Oh," she stopped suddenly, a sob in her voice, "oh, here comes Bob, Bob and
Hughie!" For the first time she left the doorway in which she had remained protectingly, and
ran forward to meet the two who were rapidly mounting the hill.

"Oh, Bob!" she cried. "Oh, Hughie! I knew you two wouldn't go back on me. I knew you'd come
sooner or later, both of you."

Hughie clung to her, one arm around her, and Flick's hard and impassive face softened a little
as he gazed at her. "Why, Pearl, what's the matter?" he asked. "You look pale, and tears! Why,
that ain't a mite like you! Has he been cutting up rough," he glanced toward her father, "and
worrying you?"

"Why didn't you come before?" She lifted her shadowed eyes to his.

He winced a little, his mouth twisting slightly. "Ain't it enough that I've come now?" Something
in his voice conveyed even to her who had so long taken his unwearying devotion without question
and as a matter of course what it had cost him to seek her again.

They had drawn near the cabin by this time and Flick looked at Gallito's frowning face a moment.
"Are you needing me, Pearl?" His drawling voice was as lazily indifferent as ever, but his
glance held an intimation of danger for Gallito which the old man did not fail to understand.

"Maybe," Pearl replied in a low voice. "You 'most always come when I need you, Bob."

"I guess your interference ain't needed now, Flick," began Gallito. "I can--"

Hughie ran his hand caressingly down the old Spaniard's sleeve. "No need to tell old Bob that
we're a united family, Pop," he cried. "Why I'm already composing a wedding march." He caught
his adopted father's hand in his.

At this mute expression of affection from the being who was nearest his heart Gallito's face
softened a little, although he gazed back at Bob Flick with a baffled and still scornful smile.

"Well," he said reluctantly, "it ain't often I confess I'm beat, but I guess I'm too old to
stand both Hughie and the girl taking sides against me, not to speak of you, Flick, and I know
if it came to a choice between me and those two where you'd stand."

"There ain't going to be any sides taken," said Flick. "We are going to give in and take what's
coming to us, Gallito, like sensible men, whether we like it or not. When's the wedding, Pearl?"

A great, beautiful wave of crimson swept over her face.

"Harry wants it right away," she said.

"The sooner the better," remarked Bob Flick dryly. "And, by the way"--he put his hand in his
pocket and drew out the little black leather bag she had given José--"José sent you back this
for a wedding present. Honest, he didn't keep out more than three stones. Why," a flash of
alarm on his face, "what's the matter, Hughie?"

The blind boy was standing a little apart from the rest. His head was thrown up and his face
was pale. He was nervously clinching and unclinching his hands, but with that exception his
attitude was one of tenseness and singular stillness, as if every faculty were concentrated.

"There's something about," he gasped, "something bad. I can't tell what it is yet, but I'll
know in a minute. Ah-hh!" He rushed across the open space before the cabin and into the trees
that grew thickly at the side.

It took Flick but a second to follow him, and the next moment Pearl and her father heard him
call. "Come out. I got you covered, but I'll thank you first for your gun."

Gallito also started forward now, but before he had taken more than a step or two Hugh emerged
first from the underbrush, followed by Hanson and then by Flick.

Seeing who it was, Pearl had shrunk back into the shadow of the room, but then, as if forcing
herself to an unpleasant task, she came forward again and leaned against the door post, nonchalant
and disdainful in spite of her pallor and the faint trembling of her lower lip.

Hanson swept off his hat and bowed low with exaggerated courtesy and much of his old swagger.
The heavy dissipation of the last few months was evident in a marked and shocking way. His
figure was gross and bloated, and his bold, ruddy good looks had vanished; his swollen face
was purple and the features seemed curiously thickened. The hand which held his hat trembled
constantly.

"Again we meet," he cried. "Well, under the circumstances, I've no objection. You pleasant
little band of thieves have got ahead of the honest man once or twice, but not for keeps. This
is my day, thank you. I'm not giving away information ahead of time again, but, just between
friends, I'll mention that the sheriff is overdue at Nitschkan's cabin, where José happens
to be. They'll be up after the rest of you presently."

"Carraja!" Gallito ground his teeth, "and I left him at the mine." Then quickly to Pearl, "Suppose
he should get away from them. Are both horses in the stable?"

"Both," she said. "Hurry, you get on one and I will have the other ready for him. Come, I will
help you. Hugh, get down to Nitschkan's and warn them if you can."

Gallito ran through the cabin after her. This commotion roused Seagreave and after calling
once or twice to Pearl and receiving no answer, he made his way to the doorway, appearing there,
thin and white, still upon crutches.

"Hello, Seagreave," called Hanson, still with his air of bravado. "You've been a long time
coming to that door. I been sitting back in the bushes watching for you as patient as a cat
watches a mouse-hole, with my gun all cocked and my finger on the trigger, ready to pick you
off the minute you showed up. Nothing against you personally, but the Black Pearl didn't spare
me, so why should I--oh, you needn't reach for your gun. Good old Bob, ain't that what the
Pearl calls him, has got me covered."

"So have I for that matter," said Seagreave.

"All right, if it amuses you." Hanson shrugged his shoulders indifferently and leaned up against
a tree which, growing before the cabin, had escaped the sweep of the avalanche. "Lord! Don't
I know what you two cut-throats stand ready to do to me? And no one any the wiser. Well, what
the hell do I care? But say, Seagreave, since we're all having this nice little afternoon tea
talk together, sociable as a Sunday school, it might do you good to take some account of the
has-beens. Here's Bob, he had her before I did, but that ain't taking away the fact that I
had her once, by God! I guess everybody understands that there's more behind those emeralds
than the pretty story we've all heard so often. The Black Pearl certainly ain't cheap."

"Let him alone, Harry." Bob Flick's voice arresting Seagreave in his swift rush toward Hanson
had never been more liquid, more languid. All through Hanson's speech his face had not shown
even a flicker of expression. "This is mine. It always has been mine, and I've known it ever
since you and me, Mr.----, I never can recall your name, but, then, yellow dogs ain't entitled
to 'em, anyway--met in the desert."

"I guess that's straight. You always had it in for me from the first night I saw her. Well,
you'll only be finishing what she begun. She broke me; she drove me straight to hell. Maybe
it was a mis-spent life I offered her, but when I met her I had money and success, I wasn't
a soak. I still had the don't-give-a-damn snap in me, and, even if you're middle-aged, that's
youth. But she's like a fever that you can't shake off. And she don't play fair. But she's
the only one. You know that, Bob Flick, and she didn't have the right--"

"I ain't ever questioned her right, Hanson"--Flick used his name for the first time--"and I'm
standing here to prove it now. For the sake of Miss Gallito, because she once took notice of
you, I'm going to treat you like you was a gentleman. Here's your gun. Take your twenty paces.
And, remember, this ain't to wound, it's to kill."

Hanson took the pistol and measured off the paces. Then he turned and looked from one man to
another with a smile of triumph on his evil face. "Broke by the Black Pearl and then shot by
her dog! That's a nice finish. I can shoot some myself, but I ain't in your class, Flick, and
you know it. I guess not. I prefer my own route." He looked toward the cabin, where it seemed
to him that Pearl or her shadow wavered a moment in the doorway. "Here's dying to you, honey,"
and before either man could stop him he lifted his pistol and shot himself through the heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the meantime certain events of more importance than the passing of Hanson, to those involved,
were taking place in Mrs. Nitschkan's cabin. As soon as Gallito had left the mine and taken
his way up to Seagreave's José also had departed from his cell by way of the ravine and had
hastened to the abode of Mrs. Nitschkan, where he and Mrs. Thomas were soon absorbed in the
composition of various appetizing dishes, for with the connivance of the two women José hoped
that evening again to subjugate Gallito with the spell of his cookery, and win back the indulgence
he had been steadily losing.

The afternoon, then, was passing most pleasantly for both Mrs. Thomas and himself when suddenly
the door was flung open and Mrs. Nitschkan, who had been fishing in a creek further down the
hill, came dashing in.

"José," she cried, "the Sheriff and his boys is all out after you again. There's nobody else
they'd want up this way. They couldn't keep under cover all the way, for they had to cross
the bridge, and I happened to see 'em then. Get out quick through the trees for Harry's cabin."

"But I don't know the secret trail."

"Gallito does. Anyway, cut for it an' maybe I can throw them off the scent. Gosh a'mighty!
Cut for it. They're here."

With one last, hasty kiss on Mrs. Thomas' cheek, José was out of the door like a flash.

"Now quick, Marthy." Mrs. Nitschkan had seized a pair of scissors and cut the pocket from her
skirt, tucking the roll of bills which it contained into her man's boot. "Cry, Marthy, cry
like you never cried before. Go on, I say. Yelpin's your strong suit. Now yelp."

With that she fell to swearing lustily herself and throwing the furniture about, even turning
the stove over and sending a great shower of soot about the room.

At the height of all this noise and confusion, dominated, it must be said, by Mrs. Thomas's
loud and, to do her justice, sincere weeping, there came a thunderous knocking on the door,
and without waiting to have it answered the sheriff threw it open and stepped in.

"Holy smoke!" he cried. "What you knockin' down the cook-stove for?"

"'Cause I'm fightin' mad, that's why," returned Mrs. Nitschkan tartly, "and I sure am glad
to see you. I been robbed, that's what. Ain't that so, Marthy?"

Mrs. Thomas lifted her tear-stained face and corroborated this with mournful nods.

"Whilst I was takin' a little nap," went on Mrs. Nitschkan excitedly, "a rascal brother of
Gallito's who shouldn't never have been let out of jail cut the pocket clean out of my skirt
and stole my roll. Look here!" exhibiting the jagged hole, and also the empty pocket which
lay upon the floor, "I just waked up to find him gone. He can't have got far, though. I guess
he thinks I ain't on to that rock chamber Gallito blasted out for him in the Mont d'Or, but
he showed it to Marthy here, and she showed it to me. Come on, and we'll get down there quick."

"Some of us will." The sheriff was inclined to believe her, and yet he was still suspicious.
A rock chamber in the Mont d'Or! That certainly accounted for the miraculous escape of last winter.

"Pedro?" he asked. "Are you sure it ain't José?"

"I ain't heard of any José, have you Marthy?" asked Mrs. Nitschkan innocently. "Pedro was his
name. But come on quick."

"Two of you boys search this cabin and the woods around," ordered the sheriff, "and two of
you go up to Seagreave's cabin. The rest come along with me."

Led by Mrs. Nitschkan, still volubly lamenting her loss, they started down the hill toward
the ravine, when the sheriff suddenly looked up to see upon the crest of the hill just before
it dipped into a descending slope two horsemen at full gallop, both horses and riders outlined
against the sky.

"Our men are up there, boys," he cried. "Quick. I've got the fastest horse in the county, and
we'll get them before they get to three rocks."

He was back to his horse again and on it and up the hill before his men were fairly in the
saddle. It was a race after that, and so rapidly did he gain on Gallito and José that it looked
as if his prediction of getting them before they reached three rocks was about to be verified.
"I must do it, I must do it," he kept muttering to himself, "for it's bad going after that,
and it'll take us all some time to find him."

He was lessening the distance between them with every long, powerful stride of his horse, but
already the three rocks, gaunt and high, loomed before him as if forming an impassable barrier
across the road. Suddenly, just as José and Gallito had almost reached them and the sheriff
was gaining upon the fugitives in great leaps, he saw them swerve their horses aside and dash
into a clump of trees to the right of the rocks.

"Oh, the fools! the fools! I got 'em now. Instead of going for the rocks, they've made for
the trees."

A few minutes later he and his men found the horses ridden by Gallito and José blown and hard-breathing
among the trees, but no trace could they discover of the men they sought. Beyond the three
rocks the character of the hills changed strikingly. Instead of the wide, undulating, wooded
plateau, over which riding was so easy, the mountains suddenly seemed split by mighty gashes,
a great pocket of crevasses and towering cliffs.

The sheriff and his men beat about aimlessly and conscientiously for several hours, but in
vain. José and Gallito had long before "hit" the secret trail. So finally the sheriff, who
was inclined to put less faith than ever in Hanson's representations, and convinced in his
own mind that Gallito was merely conniving at the escape of an unregenerate brother, and that
Mrs. Nitschkan's tale was true, called off his men and rode home. "The cuss ain't important,"
he remarked, "and I guess Gallito'll be glad enough to make up Nitschkan's loss to her and
keep her mouth shut."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was evening. Pearl and Seagreave sat in the door of the cabin. Her head drooped, her hands
lay listlessly in her lap, and her brooding gaze was fixed on the soft, dark night. "Oh," she
cried at last, "how can I do anything but leave you? Look at the mischief I've done in the
world. Look at it!"

Seagreave clasped his arms about her and laid his cheek on hers. "Let's forget it all, Pearl,
forget that you've been a firebrand and I've been a quitter, and begin life all over again.
There's only one thing in it, anyway, and that's love."

"Just love," she answered softly. "Well, love's enough."

       *       *       *       *       *

APPLETON'S RECENT BOOKS

NOVELS

JAPONETTE (The Turning Point). By Robert W. Chambers, author of "The Common Law," "The Firing
Line," "The Fighting Chance," "Iole," etc. With 26 pictures by Charles Dana Gibson. Inlay on
Cover. Cloth, $1.35 net. Postpaid, $1.47.

"Japonette" is one of the most delightful stories Mr. Chambers has ever written. It is the
romance of a bewilderingly pretty girl and a young New York society man. Just as they come
to know each other, Fate steps in and renders them both penniless by wrecking the great firm
in which their fortunes are invested. How the idle young man, without occupation or profession,
is moved to swing about and take up the business of life in dead earnest is told with the brilliance
and animation which are Mr. Chambers's chief assets. "Perhaps there are some people who would
not like 'Japonette'; if such there are one ought to be sorry for them."--Boston Transcript.

THE PRICE SHE PAID. By David Graham Phillips, author of "The Grain of Dust," "The Husband's
Story," "Old Wives for New," etc. 12mo. Cloth, $1.30 net. Postpaid, $1.42.

"The Price She Paid" is the story of a young woman, raised in luxury and idleness, who by the
sudden death of her father, is thrown upon her own resources. Talented and determined, she
sets out to be an opera singer, but the way is long and rough and she is obliged to pay the
full price before success crowns her efforts. "Little idea is conveyed in a brief outline of
the terseness and vigor of the story. It is a very significant book for a variety of reasons."--Philadelphia
Press. "It is a question whether among the dozens of flesh and blood people whom David Graham
Phillips has created there be one more genuinely real than this Mildred Gower. Again the marvel
of the man is upon us in the full measure of his realistic artistry."--Washington Star.

THE FAVOR OF KINGS. By Mary Hastings Bradley. Illustrated. Cloth, $1.30 net. Postpaid, $1.42.

The most spectacular romance of English history--the story of beautiful, proud, ill-fated Anne
Boleyn, second wife of Henry VIII and mother of Queen Elizabeth. "There is no moment when the
long, thrilling tale, well constructed, well characterized, crammed with rapid action, fails
to interest and convince."--Chicago Record-Herald.

THE SHERIFF OF BADGER. By George Pattullo. Illustrated. Cloth, $1.25 net. Postpaid, $1.37.

A vigorous romance of the cowboy country. A story of the modern cowboy of the Southwest, the
man who does not live with a gun in his hand, but who fights to a finish when necessity demands
it. The Sheriff of Badger is a flesh and blood individual of pluck and quiet daring. His breezy
adventures will keep you keenly interested and highly entertained.

THE MAKER OF OPPORTUNITIES. By George Gibbs, author of "The Bolted Door," "The Forbidden Way,"
etc. Illustrated. Cloth, $1.25 net. Postpaid, $1.37.

A bright, breezy story about a young club man, who spends all of his time and most of his comfortable
income in providing matrimonial and other opportunities for his friends. "Very entertaining,
full of dash and vivacity and of cleverness."--Richmond Times Dispatch.

THE DIARY OF A FRESHMAN. By Charles Macomb Flandrau, author of "Viva Mexico," "Prejudices,"
etc. New edition. 12mo. Cloth, 75 cents net. Postpaid, 87 cents.

This classic of undergraduate life relates the adventures and misadventures of a youth fresh
from a Western home, who is suddenly dropped into the turmoil of his opening year at a great
Eastern college. From the moment that "Mamma left for home" right up to Class Day, the author
chronicles minutely and most amusingly the experiences of his freshman hero.

HALCYONE. By Elinor Glyn, author of "The Reason Why," "His Hour," etc. Cloth, $1.30 net. Postpaid,
$1.42.

Mrs. Glyn's new novel is a very modern love story in which the principals are a dreamy little
girl--a finished product of Greek life and thought--and a rising young politician, with a fine
old professor as the god in the machine. The scenes are laid in a beautiful park in England,
and on the Continent. It is an up-to-date idyll, rich in romance, rapid in action, pure, clean,
wholesome, inspiring. The host of readers of "The Reason Why" will find this new story exactly
to their liking.

SHARROW. By the Baroness von Hutten, author of "Pam," "Our Lady of the Beeches," "He and Hecuba,"
etc. Cloth, $1.30 net. Postpaid, $1.42.

"Sharrow" is a story of complicated plot woven around the possession of a wonderful old estate
owned by the Sharrows since the Middle Ages. "It is a book of flesh and blood and character,
of individuality and power. Real people walk through its pages and real motives and emotions
direct the movement of the story."--New York Evening Sun. "The spell of Sharrow is cast over
the reader before he knows it."--Baltimore News.

FAITH BRANDON. By Henrietta Dana Skinner, author of "Espiritu Santo," "Heart and Soul," etc.
With Frontispiece. Cloth, $1.30 net. Postpaid, $1.42.

Mrs. Skinner's new novel has for its heroine a most piquant and delightful American girl, who,
at the age of sixteen, falls in love with a Russian prince. He is a man of lofty character
with a serious purpose in life and devotes his energies to political journalism. The course
of true love runs anything but smoothly. The story is full of action and incident, and has
especial interest through its warmth and color, its pictures of life in Russia and the humanness
of its characters. "A novel of purpose as well as an enchaining romance."--Springfield Union.

Appleton's Recent Books

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MYSTERY OF THE SECOND SHOT.

By Rufus Gillmore. Illustrated with Pen-and-Ink Sketches by Herman Heyer. 12mo. Cloth, $1.25
net. Postpaid, $1.37.

Bertrand Newhall, a scheming Boston banker, gets control of an old, reliable trust company,
wrecks it to bolster up another business, and disappears. Police and reporters hunt him in
vain. As Ashley, a reporter, is "combing" the neighborhood of Newhall's home for evidence,
a young girl draws him inside a house, where he finds the banker dead, a pistol beside him.
The police call it suicide, but Ashley thinks differently, and ultimately he solves a problem
quite new in the annals of crime.

THE NAMELESS THING. By Melville Davisson Post, author of "The Gilded Chair," etc. Illustrated.
12mo. Cloth, $1.25 net. Postpaid, $1.37.

A thrilling mystery story. The queer death of a recluse in his library is the main theme. There
is absolutely no clue, and the mystery is doubled by the fact that, although the room is shot
up and in the greatest disorder, both windows and door are found locked on the inside--the
man dead in a pool of his own blood. The clearing up of this mystery leads the reader through
many exciting adventures. "Something exceptional in the way of detective stories. It is such
stories as these that dignify the art of fiction writing."--Boston Transcript.

THE TREVOR CASE. By Natalie S. Lincoln. Illustrated by Edmund Frederick. 12mo. Cloth, $1.30
net. Postpaid, $1.42.

One of the most ingenious and exciting detective novels of recent years. The scene is Washington.
The beautiful young wife of the Attorney-General is found murdered. A burglar is caught leaving
the house, but incriminating evidence points to other people high in official and political
life. There is a bewildering conflict of clues and a series of startling climaxes before the
case is cleared up. Not one reader in fifty can guess the ending.