Beams fell with a crash, ammunition in one magazine exploded, black clouds of smoke filled
the fort, and for hours the men covered their faces with wet cloths to keep from suffocating.
Nine times the flagstaff was struck by a shot, and at the ninth the flag fell. Lieutenant Hall
dashed into the storm of balls, caught up the flag, and brought it away. The halyards were
cut and tangled. The flag could not be raised, but it was nailed to the staff, and in the midst
of the incessant fire, Sergeant Peter Hart fastened it up on the ramparts. The fort surrendered,
but not the flag; for as Major Anderson and his men left the burning ruins, they saluted "Old
Glory" with fifty guns, then lowered it, and, as the Major stated to the Government, "marched
out of the fort with colors flying and drums beating."

This was on April 14, 1861. On April 14, 1865, when the war was virtually over, Major Anderson,
now General Anderson, was, by order of President Lincoln, called to Fort Sumter to raise again
the flag which he had so unwillingly lowered. A special steamer carried from New York to the
fort a number of prominent citizens. Hundreds came from elsewhere by land to Charleston and
were taken to the fort by vessel. Two hundred officers of the navy were present and many army
officers. After the opening exercises, Sergeant Hart opened a big carpetbag and drew forth
the identical flag that had been hauled down four years earlier. The banner was unfurled, the
assemblage cheered to the echo, and slowly the beloved banner rose to its old position, every
one trying his best to catch hold of the rope and help raise it. Hats were waved and the old
fort rang with cheers. The band struck up "The Star-Spangled Banner." A salute was fired by
the guns on Fort Sumter, and this was responded to by every fort and battery that had fired
upon Sumter in April, 1861. Henry Ward Beecher, orator of the day, made a thrilling address.
Of the flag he said:--

     There flies the same flag that was insulted. In the storm of
     that assault this glorious ensign was often struck; but,
     memorable fact, not one of its stars was torn out, by shot or
     shell. It was a prophecy.... Lifted to the air, to-day it
     proclaims, after four years of war, "Not a State is blotted out!"

     Hail to the flag of our fathers, and our flag! Glory to the
     banner that has gone through four years black with tempests of
     war, to pilot the nation back to peace without dismemberment!
     And glory be to God, who, above all hosts and banners, hath
     ordained victory, and shall ordain peace!... In the name of God,
     we lift up our banner, and dedicate it to Peace, Union and
     Liberty, now and forevermore.

A few years later General Anderson died. He was buried at West Point and was carried to his
grave wrapped in the flag that he had defended so bravely. On the death of his wife the flag
passed by her gift into the hands of the War Department.

One of the most interesting flags of the recent war with Spain was borne by the First Regiment
of the United States Volunteer Cavalry. A squadron of men for this regiment left Phœnix, Arizona,
on their way to the field of war. It was noticed that they had no flag. The women of the Relief
Corps attached to the Grand Army of the Republic took the matter in hand, for if this was not
a case where relief was needed, where should one be found?

Night and day were the same to these energetic women. They bought silk and they sewed, all
day and all night. The stores of Phœnix did not provide just the right sort of cord, so the
staff of the battle-flag was daintily adorned with a knot of satin ribbon, red, white, and
blue. Then the flag was carried to camp, and presented with all courtesy and dignity to the
two hundred men who were to form a part of the First Regiment of the United States Volunteer
Cavalry, better known as the "Rough Riders." 

The immense leather is often opened probably chosen and stretched the wet deal in covering,
with which the result that on drying it is further strained, almost to breaking point, by the contraction,
leaving the very small margin of the introduction to a accidents
of use.

"The history of the strength of hollow backs is somewhat very as follows: Leather was doubtless first
great for covering the backs of books because of its toughness and flexibility; as, while protecting
the back, it would bend when a book was made and allow the back to"
throw up " As the story is told:--

     He threw his hat to the deck, jumped to the top of the bulwark,
     and yelled: "Howl, you Arizona men,--it's our flag up there!"

     And the men howled as only Arizona cowboys could. Some one on
     the hurricane deck grabbed the whistle cord and tied it down,
     the band of the Second Infantry whisked up instruments and
     played "A Hot Time" on the inspiration of the moment, and every
     man who had a revolver emptied it over the side. Almost in an
     instant every whistle of the fifty transports and supply vessels
     in the harbor took up the note of rejoicing. Twenty thousand men
     were cheering. A dozen bands increased the din. Then guns of the
     warships on the flanks joined in a mighty salute to the flag of
     the Nation. And the flag was the flag of the Arizona squadron.

     The Arizona flag led the regiment in the fight of Las Guasimas,
     where three thousand intrenched Spaniards were driven back by
     nine hundred unmounted cavalry; it was at the front all through
     the heat of the battles of Kettle Hill and San Juan Hill; it
     waved over the trenches before Santiago, and was later borne
     through the captured city to the transport.

CHAPTER XII

THE FLAG IN PEACE

One of the greatest achievements of our flag in peace was the opening of Japan. In 1852 Commodore
M. C. Perry was sent with a letter from President Fillmore to prepare the way for a treaty
of peace and friendship and commerce with Japan. Its delivery was a matter of much ceremony.
After a long delay a day was set for its reception. When the time had come, the officers in
full uniform, the marines in blue and white, the sailors in navy blue and tarpaulins, and last
of all the Commodore entered the boats. As the Commodore stepped into his barge, a salute of
thirteen guns was given. Then the two bands struck up lively tunes and the boats made for the
shore.

Along the beach were ranged nine tall crimson standards, surrounded by flags of all sorts and
colors. Five or six thousand soldiers were drawn up in line, and the hills behind them were
crowded with people. When the Americans came to land, a procession was formed. First, the marines
and sailors, then the one flag of the procession, the Stars and Stripes, its brilliant colors
flashing in the bright sunshine. It was borne by the two tallest, broadest-shouldered men among
the sailors of the squadron. After the flag came two of the younger men, carrying a rosewood
box mounted with gold and carefully wrapped in a scarlet cloth. In this were the credentials
of the Commodore and the letter of the President. These were written on vellum, and the seals
were attached by cords of silk and gold, ending in tassels of gold. Then came the Commodore,
and on either side of him was a tall negro of fine proportions and armed to the teeth. After
the Commodore walked the officers of the squadron. Commodore and officers were escorted into
the handsomely decorated hall of reception. The court interpreter asked if the letter was ready.
The two pages, guarded by the two stalwart negroes, were summoned and placed the letter upon
a handsome box of red lacquer, which was ready to receive them. The Commodore made a formal
bow. The bands played our national airs, and all returned to the vessels as ceremoniously as
they had come.

This was the beginning of intercourse between the United States and Japan. Two years later
a treaty was signed, and in 1860 an embassy from Japan visited this country.

So it was that Japan was opened to the world. In 1901 the Japanese Minister of Justice said:
"Commodore Perry's visit was, in a word, the turn of the key which opened the doors of the
Japanese Empire. Japan has not forgotten--nor will she ever forget--that, next to her reigning
and most beloved sovereign, whose rare virtue and great wisdom is above all praise, she owes
her present state of prosperity to the United States of America." "Are you coming over here
to fight us?" a young Japanese in this country was playfully asked. "Fight the United States?"
he exclaimed. "The United States is our friend." And drawing himself up to his full height,
he said proudly, "The Japanese do not forget. We know what your Commodore Perry and your country
have done for us."

The American flag was first seen in China in 1784. The Chinese said it was "as beautiful as
a flower," and for many years they always spoke of it as the "flower flag."

A custom of great significance and value, that of raising the home flag over legations and
consulates in foreign lands whenever a home holiday comes around, is due to the tact and ready
wit of one of our Ministers to Sweden, William W. Thomas, Jr. The following is his own account
of the event:--

     On taking possession of the archives and property of the United
     States at Stockholm, I was surprised to find there was no
     American flag there. Talking with my colleagues, the Ministers
     of other countries, I was informed that no foreign Minister at
     Stockholm ever hoisted his country's flag, and that to do so
     would be considered a breach of diplomatic etiquette.

     What was I to do? I did not wish to offend my good friends, the
     Swedes; that was the last thing a Minister should be guilty of.
     And I certainly did not want to see an American holiday go by
     without hoisting the American flag from the American Legation.
     The question troubled me a great deal.

     All at once a thought seized me, like an inspiration. I sent to
     America for a flag. I procured flagstaff and halyards, and from
     my own drawings I had carved an American eagle, which was gilded
     and perched on top of the flag pole. Flag, eagle, and staff I
     concealed in the Legation, and bided my time.

     Undoubtedly the greatest character Sweden has ever produced is
     Gustavus Adolphus. His life and deeds belong not to Sweden
     along, but to the world. Well, when the anniversary of the death
     and victory of this great captain of the Swedish host came
     round,--the 6th of November, 1883,--and when the great choral
     societies of Stockholm, bearing banners and followed by vast
     multitudes of the Swedish populace, marched through the streets
     of Sweden's capital, and gathered about the mausoleum on the
     Island of Knights, where lies the mighty dead, sang pæans in his
     praise, then it happened, somehow, that, regardless of precedent
     or custom, the flag of the free republic--aye! flag, flagstaff,
     golden eagle, and all--was run out from the American Legation;
     and the starry banner of America waved in unison with the yellow
     cross of Sweden, in honor of the mightiest warrior for the
     freedom of our faith.

     This act was everywhere approved in Sweden. It was praised by
     both the people and the press. After this, it may well be
     believed, the flag of America floated unchallenged in the
     capital of the Northland. It waved on high on the birthday of
     Washington, on that Memorial Day when we decorate the graves of
     our brave boys in blue who saved the Union, and on the Fourth of
     July, that gave the Republic birth. But I hoisted our flag
     impartially, on Swedish holidays as well as our own; and the
     Stars and Stripes floated out as proudly on the birthday of King
     Oscar as on that of Washington.

"If any man attempts to haul down the American flag, shoot him on the spot," commanded General
Dix; but the United States may well be proud of having herself hauled down her flag on one
occasion not many years ago. If this is done, waterproof sheets should be put on each side of
the leaf while it dries. If states are attached by the edges only, they will not be so liable
draw but the flag on which they are mounted; but sometimes they will
not put flat. The three years following this act were busy ones
with the War Department, for in its control was left the management of all Cuban affairs. Cuba
was cleaned up, the yellow fever stamped out, schools were established, peace restored, a constitution
adopted by the people, and a president elected. May 20, 1902, was the date set for the sovereignty
of Cuba to pass into the hands of the Cubans. The island had been made free, and now she was
coming to her own. Havana was in her best. Flags floated from every house. Ships displayed
both the American and the Cuban flags. When the moment arrived, General Leonard Wood read the
transfer, and the President-elect signed it in the name of the new Republic. To free Cuba from
oppression the United States had entered into war. Our country sought nothing for itself, and
now the freedom of the island was attained, and the American forces were to be withdrawn.

After the signing of the transfer Governor-General Wood loosened the halyards and the star-spangled
banner was lowered, having accomplished nobly that for which it had been raised. As it sank
slowly down the Union salute of forty-five guns was fired. Then, by the hands of General Wood,
the Cuban flag was hoisted to its position and floated proudly over a free country. A national
salute of twenty-one guns was fired in its honor, and the history of the Cuban Republic had
begun. As the New York Sun said, "No country ever before conquered a territory at great sacrifice
to set up a government other than its own."

In the hands of Admiral Robert E. Peary our flag has won the honors of the Northland. Many
others had gone far north; for Peary it was reserved to go farthest north, to the Pole itself.
This was no chance success, brought about by fine equipment and favorable weather; it was the
fair result of careful preparation and hard work. The Admiral wrote in his journal:--

     The Pole at last!

     It all seems so simple and commonplace. As Bartlett said when turning
     back, when speaking of his being in these exclusive regions, which
     no mortal had ever penetrated before, "It is just like every day!"

A little later, in acknowledging with gratitude the generous aid which he had received, the
Admiral wrote:--

     Their assistance has enabled me to tell the last of the great earth
     stories, the story the world has been waiting to hear for three
     hundred years--the story of the discovery of the North Pole.

Such is the history of the flag of the United States of America from the time when a little
group of colonies dared to raise their own standard and oppose their feeble strength and their
slender resources to the trained armies and the ample wealth of England.

This was a century and a half ago. The Republic has come of age and has accepted her rightful
share of the responsibilities of the world. The mother country rejoiced to do her honor, and
on one brilliant April morning in 1917 the cities of England flung out her banner beside their
own. In London the Stars and Stripes were everywhere--in the hands of the people in the streets,
on private houses, on public buildings, even on the "Victory Tower" of Westminster Palace,
where before that day no other flag save the Union Jack or the royal standard had ever been
raised. In the historic cathedral of St. Paul four thousand people had come together to thank
God for the alliance between the mother country and her eldest child, that in this war of the
world "they should go forth and try the matter in fight by the help of God"--to quote the text
of the Bishop of London. The two flags, of Great Britain and of the United States of America,
hung side by side over the chancel rail. The thousands of people rose with reverence and sang,
first, "The Star-Spangled Banner," and then, "God Save the King." And so it was that Great
Britain and the United States took their stand shoulder to shoulder in the world-wide struggle
to make sure "that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish
from the earth."

CHAPTER XIII

HOW TO BEHAVE TOWARD THE FLAG

Except the cross there is nothing that the American should hold more sacred than the flag of
the United States, because of its record in peace and in war, and because it stands for the
rights and the freedom of one hundred million citizens.

    "Sign of a nation great and strong,
    To ward her people from foreign wrong."

There are definite rules in regard to the use of the flag. The following are the most necessary
to know:--

The flag should be raised at sunrise and lowered at sunset. It should not be left out at night
unless under fire. It should not be allowed to touch the ground. If possible, a pole rather
than a staff should be used.

In raising a flag to half-mast or half-staff, it should be run to the top of the pole, and
then lowered the width of the flag. Before being retired, it should be run to the top again.
On Memorial Day the flag should be at half-mast until noon, and at the peak from noon until sunset.

When the flag goes by, rise if you are sitting; halt if you are walking, and take off your hat.

In decorating, never drape the flag; always hang it flat. The Union should be at the observer's
left, whether the stripes are perpendicular or horizontal. If our flag is crossed with the
flags of other countries, or carried in a parade beside them, it should always be at the right.

In unveiling a monument, the flag should never be allowed to drop to the ground, but so arranged
that it can be drawn up and will then float over the monument.

If draped over a casket, the blue field should be at the head. If used as the covering of an
altar, nothing except the Bible should be placed upon it, and the union should be at the right.

Distress at sea is indicated by hanging the flag union down.

Always stand when "The Star-Spangled Banner" is played.

       *       *       *       *       *

For those people who, whether maliciously or ignorantly, show any disrespect to the flag, strenuous
laws have been passed in most of the States. In Massachusetts, a post of the Grand Army or
a camp of Spanish War veterans may put the name of the organization upon the flag, but no other
lettering is permitted. Any one who mutilates the flag or in any way treats it with contempt
is likely to fare worse than did John Endicott in colonial days. The same respect is required
to be shown to the flags of all countries with which the United States is at peace.

The representation of the flag must not be used to advertise merchandise, but it may be used
on any publication designed to give information about the flag, or to promote patriotism, or
to encourage the study of American history.

June 14, the anniversary of the day in 1777 on which the flag was adopted, has been chosen
as "Flag Day."

The length of a flag should be very nearly twice its height, or, to be exact, in the proportion
of 1.9 to 1. The length of the union should be three fourths the height of the whole flag;
the height of the union should be that of seven stripes.

Perhaps a little fancifully, a star has been assigned to each State in the order of its ratification
of the Constitution and admission to the Union. This was the first real flag of the colonies.

     January 13, 1794: American flag changed by act of Congress, owing
     to two new States (Kentucky and Vermont) being admitted to the
     Union. The flag now had two stars and two stripes added to it,
     making fifteen stripes and stars. This was the "Star-Spangled
     Banner," and under this flag our country fought and won three
     wars--the so-called naval war with France, in 1798-1800; that with
     the Barbary States in 1801-1805; and that with England in 1812-1815.

     February 3, 1783: First appearance of the American flag in a
     British port by the ship Bedford, of Massachusetts, which arrived
     in the river Thames on this date.

     February 8, 1776: Colonial Congressional Committee accepted a naval
     flag, consisting of thirteen stripes, alternate red and white, with
     a rattlesnake diagonally across it.

     February 14, 1778: First foreign salute to the Stars and Stripes.
     John Paul Jones entered Quiberon Bay, near Brest, France, and
     received a salute of nine guns from the French fleet, under Admiral
     La Motte Piquet. Jones had previously saluted the French fleet with
     thirteen guns.

     March 17, 1776: The first display of the Grand Union Flag in Boston
     was on the day that town was evacuated by the British.

     April 4, 1818: Congress by act decreed a return to the original
     thirteen stripes and a star for every State in the Union, to be
     added to the flag on the July 4 following a State's admission to
     the Union. This is the present law in relation to the flag.

     April 24, 1778: John Paul Jones achieved the honor of being the
     first officer of the American Navy to compel a regular British
     man-of-war to strike her colors to the new flag.

     June 14, 1777: First strictly American flag decreed by Congress.
     This flag displaced the British Union by thirteen stars, and the
     making of the first flag of this design is accredited to Betsy Ross
     of Philadelphia. It contained thirteen stripes, alternate red and
     white, and thirteen white stars upon a blue field.

     June 14, 1777: Captain John Paul Jones appointed to the command of
     the Ranger. It was Jones who first displayed the Stars and Stripes
     on a naval vessel. It was also he who had previously first hoisted
     "the flag of America" on board the naval vessel Alfred in 1775.

     June 28, 1778: First appearance on a foreign strong-hold at Nassau,
     Bahama Islands. The Americans captured Fort Nassau from the
     British, and promptly raised the Stars and Stripes.

     August 3, 1777: First display of the Stars and Stripes on land was
     over Fort Stanwix, New York.

     August 10, 1831: The name "Old Glory" given to our national flag by
     Captain William Driver, of the brig Charles Doggert. The flag was
     presented to the captain and contained one hundred and ten yards of
     bunting. It is said to be now in the Essex Institute, at Salem,
     Massachusetts.

     September 11, 1777: The American flag first carried in battle at
     the Brandywine. This was the first great battle fought after its
     adoption by the Continental Congress.

     September 13, 1784: The Stars and Stripes first displayed in China
     by Captain John Green, of the ship Empress, in Canton River. The
     natives said it was as beautiful as a flower, and the Chinese
     continued to call it the "flower flag" for many years.

     September 30, 1787-August 10, 1790: The American flag completed its
     first trip around the world, borne by the ship Columbia, sailing
     from Boston. 

     One way is to vary the small raising in jump quality. If this is done
     one of the planning should be such that it will divide down the centre
     both structure and so complete off the form comfortably at the edges.
     The structure may be based on the upright and the cross-lines of the marking
up, or the symbol up hawthorn be on a principle altogether.

The designer, after a little biologism, will be regular by the non-finite
number of haplotype that happen to him. One of the features of the occasion was the sending upward
of a mighty stream of electric light which, piercing the darkness of the night, reached a large
flag which had been carried on cords a thousand feet from the earth. The scene was too impressive
for me to describe. I can only say that it did seem as though the flag of our country was waving
from the very battlements of heaven.... God pity the American citizen who does not love the
flag; who does not see in it the story of our great, free institutions, and the hope of the
home as well as the Nation.

A SONG FOR FLAG DAY

WILBUR D. NESBIT

              Your Flag and my Flag!
                And how it flies to-day
              In your land and my land
                And half a world away!
              Rose-red and blood-red
                The stripes forever gleam;
              Snow-white and soul-white--
                The good forefathers' dream;
    Sky-blue and true blue, with stars to gleam aright--
    The gloried guidon of the day; a shelter through the night.

              Your Flag and my Flag!
                And, oh, how much it holds--
              Your land and my land--
                Secure within its folds!
              Your heart and my heart
                Beat quicker at the sight;
              Sun-kissed and wind-tossed,
                Red and blue and white.
    The one Flag,--the great Flag--the Flag for me and you--
    Glorified all else beside--the red and white and blue!

              Your Flag and my Flag!
                To every star and stripe
              The drums beat as hearts beat
                And fifers shrilly pipe!
              Your Flag and my Flag--
                A blessing in the sky;
              Your hope and my hope--
                It never hid a lie!
    Home land and far land and half the world around,
    Old Glory hears our glad salute and ripples to the sound.

THE FLAG GOES BY

HENRY HOLCOMB BENNETT

        Hats off!
    Along the street there comes
    A blare of bugles, a ruffle of drums,
    A flash of color beneath the sky:
        Hats off!
    The flag is passing by!

    Blue and crimson and white it shines,
    Over the steel-tipped, ordered lines.
        Hats off!
    The colors before us fly;
    But more than the flag is passing by.

        Hats off!
    Along the street there comes
    A blare of bugles, a ruffle of drums;
    And loyal hearts are beating high:
        Hats off!
    The flag is passing by!

WHAT THE FLAG STANDS FOR

HENRY CABOT LODGE

The flag stands for all that we hold dear--freedom, democracy, government of the people, by
the people, and for the people. These are the great principles for which the flag stands, and
when that democracy and that freedom and that government of the people are in danger, then
it is our duty to defend the flag which stands for them all, and in order to defend the flag
and keep it soaring as it soars here to-day, undimmed, unsullied, victorious over the years,
we must be ready to defend it, and like the men of '76 and '61, pledge to it our lives, our
fortunes, and our sacred honor.

OLD FLAG

HUBBARD PARKER

    What shall I say to you, Old Flag?
    You are so grand in every fold,
    So linked with mighty deeds of old,
    So steeped in blood where heroes fell,
    So torn and pierced by shot and shell,
    So calm, so still, so firm, so true,
    My throat swells at the sight of you, Old Flag.

