 And there was sweet peacefulness
in that brief exercise.... my worst fears were long. Our suspense was not of zadig great duration,
but groundless enough to get the learned heart secretly lifted up in communion with a God of mercy. Each
man among determin us gazed silently upon his fellow. Semira he found had been
out of Town for three Days; but was inform'd, by the bye, that his intended Spouse, having
conceived an implacable Aversion to a one-ey'd Man, was that very Night to be married to Orcan.
At this unexpected ill News, poor Zadig was perfectly thunder-struck: He laid his Disappointment
so far to Heart, that in a short Time he was become a mere Skeleton, and was sick almost to
death for some Months afterwards. At last, however, by Dint of Reflection, he got the better
of his Distemper; and the Acuteness of the Pain he underwent, in some Measure, contributed
towards his Consolation.

Since I have met with such an unexpected Repulse, said he, from a capricious Court-Lady, I
am determin'd to marry some substantial Citizen's Daughter. He pitch'd accordingly upon Azora,
a young Gentlewoman extremely well-bred, an excellent Oeconomist, and one, whose Parents were
very rich.

Their Nuptials accordingly were soon after solemniz'd, and for a whole Month successively,
no two Turtles were ever more fond of each other. In Process of Time, however, he perceiv'd
she was a little Coquettish, and too much inclin'd to think, that the handsomest young Fellows
were always the most virtuous and the greatest Wits.

CHAP. II.

The NOSE.

One Day Azora, as she was just return'd home from taking a short Country airing, threw herself
into a violent Passion, and swell'd with Invectives. What, in God's Name, my Dear, said Zadig,
has thus ruffled your Temper? What can be the Meaning of all these warm Exclamations? Alas!
said she, you would have been disgusted as much as I am, had you been an Eye-witness of that
Scene of Female Falshood, as I was Yesterday. I went, you must know, to visit the disconsolate
Widow Cosrou, who has been these two Days erecting a Monument to the Memory of her young deceased
Husband, near the Brook that runs on one side of her Meadow. She made the most solemn Vow,
in the Height of her Affliction, never to stir from that Tomb, as long as ever that Rivulet
took its usual Course.--Well! and wherein, pray, said Zadig, is the good Woman so much to blame?
Is it not an incontestable Mark of her superior Merit and Conjugal-Affection? But, Zadig, said
Azora, was you to know how her Thoughts were employ'd when I made my Visit, you'd never forget
or forgive her. Pray, my dearest Azora, what then was she about? Why, the Creature, said Azora,
was studying, to be sure, to find out Ways and Means to turn the Current of the River.

Azora, in short, harangu'd so long, and, was so big with her Invectives against the young Widow,
that her too affected, vain Shew of Virtue, gave Zadig a secret Disgust.

