It is not here claimed that any single panacea exists for all of the troubles of the working-people
or of employers. As long as some people are born lazy or inefficient, and others are born greedy
and brutal, as long as vice and crime are with us, just so long will a certain amount of poverty,
misery, and unhappiness be with us Also. No system of management, no single expedient--within
the control of any man or any set of men can insure continuous prosperity to either workmen
or employers. Prosperity depends upon so many factors entirely beyond the control of any one
set of men, any state, or even any one country, that certain periods will inevitably come when
both sides must suffer, more or less. It is claimed, however, that under scientific management
the intermediate periods will be far more prosperous, far happier, and more free from discord
and dissension. And also, that the periods will be fewer, shorter and the suffering less. And
this will be particularly true in any one town, any one section of the country, or any one
state which first substitutes the principles of scientific management for the rule of thumb.

That these principles are certain to come into general use practically throughout the civilized
world, sooner or later, the writer is profoundly convinced, and the sooner they come the better
for all the people.

CHAPTER II

THE PRINCIPLES OF SCIENTIFIC MANAGEMENT

The writer has found that there are three questions uppermost in the minds of men when they
become interested in scientific management.

First. Wherein do the principles of scientific management differ essentially from those of
ordinary management?

Second. Why are better results attained under scientific management than under the other types?

Third. Is not the most important problem that of getting the right man at the head of the company?
And if you have the right man cannot the choice of the type of management be safely left to him?

One of the principal objects of the following pages will be to give a satisfactory answer to
these questions.

THE FINEST TYPE OF ORDINARY MANAGEMENT

Before starting to illustrate the principles of scientific management, or "task management"
as it is briefly called, it seems desirable to outline what the writer believes will be recognized
as the best type of management which is in common use. This is done So that the great difference
between the best of the ordinary management and scientific management may be fully appreciated.

In an industrial establishment which employs say from 500 to 1000 workmen, there will be found
in many cases at least twenty to thirty different trades. The workmen in each of these trades
have had their knowledge handed down to them by word of mouth, through the many years in which
their trade has been developed from the primitive condition, in which our far-distant ancestors
each one practiced the rudiments of many different trades, to the present state of great and
growing subdivision of labor, in which each man specializes upon some comparatively small class
of work.

The ingenuity of each generation has developed quicker and better methods for doing every element
of the work in every trade. Thus the methods which are now in use may in a broad sense be said
to be an evolution representing the survival of the fittest and best of the ideas which have
been developed since the starting of each trade. However, while this is true in a broad sense,
only those who are intimately acquainted with each of these trades are fully aware of the fact
that in hardly any element of any trade is there uniformity in the methods which are used.
Instead of having only one way which is generally accepted as a standard, there are in daily
use, say, fifty or a hundred different ways of doing each element of the work. And a little
thought will make it clear that this must inevitably be the case, since our methods have been
handed down from man to man by word of mouth, or have, in most cases, been almost unconsciously
learned through personal observation. Practically in no instances have they been codified or
systematically analyzed or described. The ingenuity and experience of each generation--of each
decade, even, have without doubt handed over better methods to the next. This mass of rule-of-thumb
or traditional knowledge may be said to be the principal asset or possession of every tradesman.
Now, in the best of the ordinary types of management, the managers recognize frankly the fact
that the 500 or 1000 workmen, included in the twenty to thirty trades, who are under them,
possess this mass of traditional knowledge, a large part of which is not in the possession
of the management. The management, of course, includes foremen and superintendents, who themselves
have been in most cases first-class workers at their trades. And yet these foremen and superintendents
know, better than any one else, that their own knowledge and personal skill falls far short
of the combined knowledge and dexterity of all the workmen under them. The most experienced
managers therefore frankly place before their workmen the problem of doing the work in the
best and most economical way. They recognize the task before them as that of inducing each
workman to use his best endeavors, his hardest work, all his traditional knowledge, his skill,
his ingenuity, and his good-will--in a word, his "initiative," so as to yield the largest possible
return to his employer. The problem before the management, then, may be briefly said to be
that of obtaining the best initiative of every workman. And the writer uses the word "initiative"
in its broadest sense, to cover all of the good qualities sought for from the men.

On the other hand, no intelligent manager would hope to obtain in any full measure the initiative
of his workmen unless he felt that he was giving them something more than they usually receive
from their employers. Only those among the readers of this paper who have been managers or
who have worked themselves at a trade realize how far the average workman falls short of giving
his employer his full initiative. It is well within the mark to state that in nineteen out
of twenty industrial establishments the workmen believe it to be directly against their interests
to give their employers their best initiative, and that instead of working hard to do the largest
possible amount of work and the best quality of work for their employers, they deliberately
work as slowly as they dare while they at the same time try to make those over them believe
that they are working fast. *

[*Footnote: The writer has tried to make the reason for this unfortunate state of things clear
in a paper entitled "Shop Management," read before the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.]

The writer repeats, therefore, that in order to have any hope of obtaining the initiative of
his workmen the manager must give some special incentive to his men beyond that which is given
to the average of the trade. This incentive can be given in several different ways, as, for
example, the hope of rapid promotion or advancement; higher wages, either in the form of generous
piece-work prices or of a premium or bonus of some kind for good and rapid work; shorter hours
of labor; better surroundings and working conditions than are ordinarily given, etc., and,
above all, this special incentive should be accompanied by that personal consideration for,
and friendly contact with, his workmen which comes only from a genuine and kindly interest
in the welfare of those under him. It is only by giving a special inducement or "incentive"
of this kind that the employer can hope even approximately to get the "initiative" of his workmen.
Under the ordinary type of management the necessity for offering the workman a special inducement
has come to be so generally recognized that a large proportion of those most interested in
the subject look upon the adoption of some one of the modern schemes for paying men (such as
piece work, the premium plan, or the bonus plan, for instance) as practically the whole system
of management. Under scientific management, however, the particular pay system which is adopted
is merely one of the subordinate elements.

Broadly speaking, then, the best type of management in ordinary use may be defined as management
in which the workmen give their best initiative and in return receive some special incentive
from their employers. This type of management will be referred to as the management of "initiative
and incentive" in contradistinction to scientific management, or task management, with which
it is to be compared.

The writer hopes that the management of "initiative and incentive" will be recognized as representing
the best type in ordinary use, and in fact he believes that it will be hard to persuade the
average manager that anything better exists in the whole field than this type. The task which
the writer has before him, then, is the difficult one of trying to prove in a thoroughly convincing
way that there is another type of management which is not only better but overwhelmingly better
than the management of "initiative and incentive."

The universal prejudice in favor of the management of "initiative and incentive" is so strong
that no mere theoretical advantages which can be pointed out will be likely to convince the
average manager that any other system is better. It will be upon a series of practical illustrations
of the actual working of the two systems that the writer will depend in his efforts to prove
that scientific management is so greatly superior to other types. Certain elementary principles,
a certain philosophy, will however be recognized as the essence of that which is being illustrated
in all of the practical examples which will be given. And the broad principles in which the
scientific system differs from the ordinary or "rule-of-thumb" system are so simple in their
nature that it seems desirable to describe them before starting with the illustrations.

Under the old type of management success depends almost entirely upon getting the "initiative"
of the workmen, and it is indeed a rare case in which this initiative is really attained. Under
scientific management the "initiative" of the workmen (that is, their hard work, their good-will,
and their ingenuity) is obtained with absolute uniformity and to a greater extent than is possible
under the old system; and in addition to this improvement on the part of the men, the managers
assume new burdens, new duties, and responsibilities never dreamed of in the past. The managers
assume, for instance, the burden of gathering together all of the traditional knowledge which
in the past has been possessed by the workmen and then of classifying, tabulating, and reducing
this knowledge to rules, laws, and formulae which are immensely helpful to the workmen in doing
their daily work. In addition to developing a science in this way, the management take on three
other types of duties which involve new and heavy burdens for themselves.

These new duties are grouped under four heads:

First. They develop a science for each element of a man's work, which replaces the old rule-of.-thumb
method.

Second. They scientifically select and then train, teach, and develop the workman, whereas
in the past he chose his own work and trained himself as best he could.

Third. They heartily cooperate with the men so as to insure all of the work being done in accordance
with the principles of the science which has been developed.

Fourth. There is an almost equal division of the work and the responsibility between the management
and the workmen. The management take over all work for which they are better fitted than the
workmen, while in the past almost all of the work and the greater part of the responsibility
were thrown upon the men.

It is this combination of the initiative of the workmen, coupled with the new types of work
done by the management, that makes scientific management so much more efficient than the old plan.

Three of these elements exist in many cases, under the management of "initiative and incentive,"
in a small and rudimentary way, but they are, under this management, of minor importance, whereas
under scientific management they form the very essence of the whole system.

The fourth of these elements, "an almost equal division of the responsibility between the management
and the workmen," requires further explanation. The philosophy of the management of initiative
and incentive makes it necessary for each workman to bear almost the entire responsibility
for the general plan as well as for each detail of his work, and in many cases for his implements
as well. In addition to this he must do all of the actual physical labor. The development of
a science, on the other hand, involves the establishment of many rules, laws, and formulae
which replace the judgment of the individual workman and which can be effectively used only
after having been systematically recorded, indexed, etc. The practical use of scientific data
also calls for a room in which to keep the books, records*, etc., and a desk for the planner
to work at.

[*Footnote: For example, the records containing the data used under scientific management in
an ordinary machine-shop fill thousands of pages.]

Thus all of the planning which under the old system was done by the workman, as a result of
his personal experience, must of necessity under the new system be done by the management in
accordance with the laws of the science; because even if the workman was well suited to the
development and use of scientific data, it would be physically impossible for him to work at
his machine and at a desk at the same time. It is also clear that in most cases one type of
man is needed to plan ahead and an entirely different type to execute the work.

The man in the planning room, whose specialty under scientific management is planning ahead,
invariably finds that the work can be done better and more economically by a subdivision of
the labor; each act of each mechanic, for example, should. be preceded by various preparatory
acts done by other men. And all of this involves, as we have said, "an almost equal division
of the responsibility and the work between the management and the workman."

To summarize: Under the management of "initiative and incentive" practically the whole problem
is "up to the workman," while under scientific management fully one-half of the problem is
"up to the management."

Perhaps the most prominent single element in modern scientific management is the task idea.
The work of every workman is fully planned out by the management at least one day in advance,
and each man receives in most cases complete written instructions, describing in detail the
task which he is to accomplish, as well as the means to be used in doing the work. And the
work planned in advance in this way constitutes a task which is to be solved, as explained
above, not by the workman alone, but in almost all cases by the joint effort of the workman
and the management. This task specifies not only what is to be done but how it is to be done
and the exact time allowed for doing it. And whenever the workman succeeds in doing his task
right, and within the time limit specified, he receives an addition of from 30 per cent to
100 per cent to his ordinary wages. These tasks are carefully planned, so that both good and
careful work are called for in their performance, but it should be distinctly understood that
in no case is the workman called upon to work at a pace which would be injurious to his health.
The task is always so regulated that the man who is well suited to his job will thrive while
working at this rate during a long term of years and grow happier and more prosperous, instead
of being overworked. Scientific management consists very largely in preparing for and carrying
out these tasks.

The writer is fully aware that to perhaps most of the readers of this paper the four elements
which differentiate the new management from the old will at first appear to be merely high-sounding
phrases; and he would again repeat that he has no idea of convincing the reader of their value
merely through announcing their existence. His hope of carrying conviction rests upon demonstrating
the tremendous force and effect of these four elements through a series of practical illustrations.
It will be shown, first, that they can be applied absolutely to all classes of work, from the
most elementary to the most intricate; and second, that when they are applied, the results
must of necessity be overwhelmingly greater than those which it is possible to attain under
the management of initiative and incentive.

The first illustration is that of handling pig iron, and this work is chosen because it is
typical of perhaps the crudest and most elementary form of labor which is performed by man.
This work is done by men with no other implements than their hands. The pig-iron handler stoops
down, picks up a pig weighing about 92 pounds, walks for a few feet or yards and then drops
it on to the ground or upon a pile. This work is so crude and elementary in its nature that
the writer firmly believes that it would be possible to train an intelligent, gorilla so as
to become a more efficient pig-iron handler than any man can be. Yet it will be shown that
the science of handling pig iron is so great and amounts to so much that it is impossible for
the man who is best suited to this type of work to understand the principles of this science,
or even to work in accordance with these principles without the aid of a man better educated
than he is. And the further illustrations to be given will make it clear that in almost all
of the mechanic arts the science which underlies each workman's act is so great and amounts
to so much that the workman who is best suited actually to do the work is incapable (either
through lack of education or through insufficient mental capacity) of understanding this science.
This is announced as a general principle, the truth of which will become apparent as one illustration
after another is given. After showing these four elements in the handling of pig iron, several
illustrations will be given of their application to different kinds of work in the field of
the mechanic arts, at intervals in a rising scale, beginning with the simplest and ending with
the more intricate forms of labor.

One of the first pieces of work undertaken by us, when the writer started to introduce scientific
management into the Bethlehem Steel Company, was to handle pig iron on task work. The opening
of the Spanish War found some 80,000 tons of pig iron placed in small piles in an open field
adjoining the works. Prices for pig iron had been so low that it could not be sold at a profit,
and it therefore had been stored. With the opening of the Spanish War the price of pig iron
rose, and this large accumulation of iron was sold. This gave us a good opportunity to show
the workmen, as well as the owners and managers of the works, on a fairly large scale the advantages
of task work over the old-fashioned day work and piece work, in doing a very elementary class
of work.

