About the online edition.

Italics are represented as /italics/.
                                 WORDSWORTH.

 [Plate 1. Christ Church : The Cathedral from the Garden]

THE CHARM OF OXFORD

PREFACE

There are many books on Oxford; the justification for this new one is Mr. Blackall's drawings.
They will serve by their grace and charm pleasantly to recall to those who know Oxford the
scenes they love; they will incite those who do not know Oxford to remedy that defect in their
lives.

My own letterpress is only written to accompany the drawings.  It is intended to remind Oxford
men of the things they know or ought to know; it is intended still more to help those who have
not visited Oxford to understand the drawings and to appreciate some of the historical associations
of the scenes represented.

I have written quite freely, as this seemed the best way to create the "impression" wished.
I have to acknowledge some obligations to Messrs. Seccombe & Scott's /Praise of Oxford/, a
book the pages of which an Oxford man can always turn over with pleasure, and to Mr. J. B.
Firth's /Minstrelsy of Isis/; it is not his fault that the poetic merit of so much of his collection
is poor. Oxford has not on the whole been fortunate in her poets. My own quotations are more
often chosen for their local colour than for their poetic merit.

I have unavoidably had to borrow a good deal from my own /Oxford and its Colleges/, but the
aim of the two books is very different.

  WADHAM COLLEGE, OXFORD,
      April 1920.

CONTENTS

 INTRODUCTION
 RADCLIFFE SQUARE
 THE BROAD STREET
 BALLIOL COLLEGE
 MERTON COLLEGE
 MERTON LIBRARY
 ORIEL COLLEGE
 QUEEN'S COLLEGE
 NEW COLLEGE: (1) FOUNDER AND BUILDINGS
 NEW COLLEGE: (2) HISTORY
 LINCOLN COLLEGE
 MAGDALEN COLLEGE: (1) SITE AND BUILDINGS
 MAGDALEN COLLEGE: (2) HISTORY
 BRASENOSE COLLEGE
 CORPUS CHRISTI COLLEGE
 CHRIST CHURCH: (1) THE CATHEDRAL
 CHRIST CHURCH: (2) THE HALL STAIRCASE
 CHRIST CHURCH: (3) "TOM" TOWER
 ST. JOHN'S COLLEGE
 WADHAM COLLEGE: (1) THE BUILDINGS
 WADHAM COLLEGE: (2) HISTORY
 HERTFORD COLLEGE
 ST. EDMUND HALL
 IFFLEY MILL

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

     I CHRIST CHURCH, THE CATHEDRAL FROM THE GARDEN
    II ST. MARY'S SPIRE
   III VIEW IN RADCLIFFE SQUARE
    IV SHELDONIAN THEATRE, ETC., BROAD STREET
     V BALLIOL COLLEGE, BROAD STREET FRONT
    VI MERTON COLLEGE, THE TOWER
   VII MERTON COLLEGE, THE LIBRARY INTERIOR
  VIII ORIEL COLLEGE AND ST. MARY'S CHURCH
    IX HIGH STREET
     X NEW COLLEGE, THE ENTRANCE GATEWAY
    XI NEW COLLEGE, THE TOWER
   XII LINCOLN COLLEGE, THE CHAPEL INTERIOR
  XIII MAGDALEN TOWER
   XIV MAGDALEN COLLEGE, THE OPEN AIR PULPIT
    XV BRASENOSE COLLEGE, QUADRANGLE AND THE RADCLIFFE LIBRARY
   XVI CORPUS CHRISTI COLLEGE, THE FIRST QUADRANGLE
  XVII CHRIST CHURCH, THE CATHEDRAL FROM THE MEADOW
 XVIII CHRIST CHURCH, THE HALL STAIRCASE
   XIX CHRIST CHURCH, THE HALL INTERIOR
    XX CHRIST CHURCH, "TOM" TOWER
   XXI ST. JOHN'S COLLEGE GARDEN FRONT
  XXII WADHAM COLLEGE, THE CHAPEL FROM THE GARDEN
 XXIII WADHAM COLLEGE, THE HALL INTERIOR
  XXIV HERTFORD COLLEGE, THE BRIDGE
   XXV ST. PETER-IN-THE-EAST CHURCH AND ST. EDMUND HALL
  XXVI IFFLEY, THE OLD MILL
       OXFORD FROM THE EAST [End papers]

INTRODUCTION

In what does the charm of Oxford consist? Why does she stand out among the cities of the world
as one of those most deserving a visit? It can hardly be said to be for the beauty of her natural
surroundings. In spite of the charm of her

    "Rivers twain of gentle foot that pass
     Through the rich meadow-land of long green grass,"

in spite of her trees and gardens, which attract a visitor, especially one from the more barren
north, Oxford must yield the palm of natural beauty to many English towns, not to mention those
more remote.

But she has every other claim, and first, perhaps, may be mentioned that of historic interest.

An Englishman who knows anything of history is not likely to forget of how many striking events
in the development of his country Oxford has been the scene. The element of romance is furnished
early in her story by the daring escape of the Empress-Queen, Matilda, from Oxford Castle.
The Provisions of Oxford (1258) were the work of one of the most famous Parliaments of the
thirteenth century, the century which saw the building of the English constitution, and the
students of the University fought for the cause which those Provisions represented. The burning
of the martyr bishops in the sixteenth century is one of the greatest tragedies in the story
of our Church. The seventeenth century saw Oxford the capital of Royalist England in the Civil
War, and though there was no actual fighting there, Charles' night march in 1644 from Oxford
to the West, between the two enclosing armies of Essex and Waller, is one of the most famous
military movements ever carried out in our comparatively peaceful island. The Parliamentary
history, too, of Oxford in the seventeenth century is full of interest, for it was there that
in 1625 Charles' first Parliament met in the Divinity School. And fifty years later, his son,
Charles II, triumphed over the Whig Parliament at Oxford, which was trying by factious violence
to force the Exclusion Bill on a reluctant king and nation. Few towns beside London have been
the scene of so many great historical events; yet any one who looks below the surface will
attach less importance to these than to the great changes in thought which have found in Oxford
their inspiration, and which make it a city of pilgrimage for those interested in the development
of England's real life.

But this is not the real intellectual charm of Oxford, which has been ever the centre of strenuous
life, rather than of dilettante dreamings. From the very beginning, she has been a city of
"Movements." Some visitors, then, will come to Oxford as the home and the burial-place of Roger
Bacon, representing as he does the Franciscan Order, with its Christ-like sympathy for the
poor and its early attempts to develop the knowledge of Natural Science; Oxford was in the
thirteenth century the great centre of the Friars' movement in England. Others will remember
that in the next century it produced, in John Wycliffe, the great opponent of the Friars, the
man who, as the first of the Reformers, is to many the most interesting figure in mediaeval
English religious history. In the sixteenth century, Oxford plays no great part in the actual
revolution in the English Church; yet it will be a place attractive to many who cherish the
memory of the "Oxford Reformers," the members of Erasmus' circle --John Colet, Thomas More,
William Grocyn, and other scholars--who hoped by sound learning to amend the Church without
violent change. Some, on the other hand, will see in the sixteenth-century Oxford, the school
which trained men for the Counter-Reformation, such as the heroic Jesuit, Campion, or Cardinal
Alien, the founder of the English College at Douai. The Anglican "Via Media" found its special
representatives in Oxford in Jewel and Hooker, and in Laud, the practical genius who carried
out its principles in the Church administration of his day. It was fitting that the movement
for the revival of Church teaching in England in the nineteenth century should be an Oxford
movement, and Newman's pulpit at St. Mary's and the chapel of Oriel College are sacred in the
eyes of Anglicans all over the world. In the interval between Laud and Newman, Church principles
had found a different development in another Oxford man; John Wesley's character and spiritual
life were built up in Oxford, till he went forth to do the work of an Evangelist during more
than half of the eighteenth century. Wycliffe, More, Hooker, Laud, Wesley, Newman, these are
not the names of men who have affected the religious history of the world as did Luther, Calvin
or Ignatius Loyola; but they have affected profoundly the religious life of the English-speaking
race, and Oxford must ever be a sacred place for their sakes.

And Oxford has been the starting-point of other than religious movements. No place in England
has such a claim on the Englishmen of the New World as has Oxford. It was there that Richard
Hakluyt taught geography, and collected in part his wonderful store of the tales of enterprise
beyond the sea. By their failures they showed the way to success later, and Calvert in Maryland,
Penn in Pennsylvania, John Locke in the Carolinas, and Oglethorpe in Georgia are all Oxford
men who rank as founders of States in the great Union of the West. And in our own day, Cecil
Rhodes has once more proved that the academic dreamer can go out and advance the development
of a great continent. By his magnificent foundation of scholarships at Oxford, he showed that
he considered his old university a formative influence of the greatest importance in world
history. Oxford with reason puts up one tablet to mark his lodgings in the city, and another
to commemorate him in her stately Examination Schools.

 [Plate II, St. Mary's Spire]

But there are many to whom the past, whether in the realm of action or in the realm of ideas,
does not appeal, whether it be from lack of knowledge or from lack of sympathy. To some of
these Oxford makes a different appeal as perhaps the best place in England for studying the
development of English architecture. The early Norman work of the Castle and St. Michael's,
the Transition work of the cathedral, the very early lancet windows of St. Giles' Church (consecrated
by the great St. Hugh of Lincoln himself), the Decorated Style as seen in St. Mary's spire
and in Merton chapel, the glories of the specially English style, the Perpendicular, in Wykeham's
work at New College and in Magdalen Tower, the Tudor magnificence of Wolsey's work at Christ
Church, the last flower of Gothic at Wadham and at St. John's, the triumph of Wren's genius,
alike in the classical style at the Sheldonian and in "Gothic" as in Tom Tower, the Classical
work of Hawkesmore at Queen's and of Gibbs in the Radcliffe, the wonderful beauty of Mr. Bodley's
modern Gothic in St. Swithun's Quad at Magdalen, and the skilful adaptation of old English
tradition to modern needs by Sir Thomas Jackson at Trinity and at Hertford--what other city
can show such a series of architectural beauties? And it must not be forgotten that Oxford
disputes with York the honour of having the most representative sequence of painted glass windows
in England. Oxford, indeed, is a paradise for the student of Art. Nowhere, except at Cambridge,
can the series of architectural works be paralleled, and at both universities the charm of
their ancient buildings is enhanced by their beautiful setting in college gardens.

It is not an accident that in the old universities more than anywhere else, so much of beauty
has survived, nor is it to be put down as a happy piece of academic conservatism. It is rather
the natural result of their constitution and endowment. What has been so fatal to the beauty
of old England elsewhere has been material prosperity. The buildings inherited from the past
had to go, at least so it was thought, because they were not suited to modern methods, or because
the site they occupied was worth so much more for other purposes. But the colleges at Oxford
and Cambridge could not carry on their work on different sites; "residence" was an essential
of academic arrangements; and there was no temptation to the fellows of a college to make money
by parting with their old buildings, for their incomes were determined by Statute, and any
great increase of wealth would not advantage individual fellows. Hence, while great nobles
and great merchants sold their splendid houses and grounds, and grew rich on the unearned increment,
and while non-residential universities moved bodily from their old positions to new and more
fashionable quarters, Oxford and Cambridge colleges went on working and living in the same
places. Much the same reasons have preserved, in many old towns, picturesque alms-houses, to
show the modern world how beautiful buildings once could be, while all around them reigns opulent
ugliness. Certain it is that only in one instance, in recent times, has an Oxford college contemplated
selling its old site and buildings and migrating to North Oxford, and then the sacrilegious
attempt was outvoted. Hence, as has been said, the two old English Universities possess in
an unique degree the

    "Strange enchantments of the past
     And memories of the days of old."

The charms of Oxford for the historical student and for the lover of Art have been spoken of.
But a large part of the world comes under neither head; to it the charm of Oxford consists
in the young lives that are continually passing through it. Oxford and Cambridge present ever
attractive contrasts between their young students and their old buildings, between the first
enthusiasm of ever new generations, and customs and rules which date back to mediaeval times.

But apart from the charm of contrast, Oxford has everything to make life attractive for young
men. It is true that the old buildings combine with a dignity a millionaire could not surpass
a standard of material comfort which in some respects is below that of an up-to- date workhouse.
An amusing instance has occurred of this during the war. The students of one of the women's
colleges, expelled from their own modern buildings, which had been turned into a hospital,
became tenants of half of one of the oldest colleges. It was very romantic thus to gain admission
to the real Oxford, but the students soon found that it was very uncomfortable to have their
baths in an out- of-the-way corner of the college. And baths themselves are but a modern institution
at Oxford; at one or two colleges still the old "tub in one's room" is the only system of washing.
Perhaps this instance may be thought frivolous, but it is typical of Oxford, which has been
described, with some exaggeration in both words, as a home of "barbaric luxury."

But after all, comfort in the material sense is the least important element in completeness
of life. Oxford has everything else, except, it is true, a bracing climate. She has society
of every kind, in which a man ranks on his merits, not on his possessions; he is valued for
what he is, not for what he has; she gives freedom to her sons to live their own life, with
just sufficient restraint to add piquancy to freedom, and to restrain those excesses which
are fatal to it; she has intellectual interests and traditions, which often really affect men
who seem indifferent to them; life in her, as a rule, is not troubled by financial cares--for
her young men, most of them, either through old endowments or from family circumstances, have
for the moment enough of this world's goods. In view of all this, and much more, is it not
natural that Oxford has a charm for her sons? And this is enhanced with many by all the force
of hereditary tradition; the young man is at his college because his father was there before
him; the pleasure of each generation is increased by the reflection of the other's pleasure.
What traditional feeling in Oxford means may, perhaps, be illustrated by the story of an old
English worthy, though one only of the second rank. Jonathan Trelawney, one of the Seven Bishops
who defied James II, was a stout Whig, but when it was proposed to punish Oxford for her devotion
to the Pretender, the Government found they could not reckon on his vote, though he was usually
a safe party man. "I must be excused from giving my vote for altering the methods of election
into Christ Church, where I had my bread for twenty years. I would rather see my son a link
boy than a student of Christ Church in such a manner as tears up by the roots that constitution."

But the days of hereditary tradition are over, and Trelawney belongs to an age long past; Oxford
now is exposed to an influence compared to which the arbitrary proceedings of a king are feeble.
A democratic Parliament with a growing Labour party has far more power to change Oxford than
the Stuarts ever had, and even at this moment (1919) a third Royal Commission is beginning
to sit. Will it modify, will it-- transform Oxford?

The first answer seems to be that the very stones of Oxford are charged with her traditions.
During the War the colleges have been full of officer-cadets; they were men of all ranks of
life and of every kind of education; they came from all parts of the world; they were of all
ages, from eighteen to forty, at least. Their training was a strenuous one by strict rule,
a complete contrast to the free and easy life of academic Oxford. Yet in their few months of
residence, most of them became imbued with the college spirit; they considered themselves members
of the place they lived in; they tried to do most of the things undergraduates do. If Oxford
thus, to some extent, moulded to her pattern men who, welcome as they were, were only accidental,
surely the college spirit may be trusted to assimilate whatever material the changed conditions
of social or of political life furnish to it. The hope of many at Oxford is that there will
be a great development and a great change. On one side it will be good if Oxford becomes to
a much greater extent not only an all-British, but also a world university; on another side
it is to be hoped that far more than ever before men of all classes in England will come to
Oxford. It would surprise many of the University's critics to find how much had already been
done in these directions. It is certainly not true now that, as one of Oxford's critics wrote,

    "Too long, too long men saw thee sit apart
     From all the living pulses of the hour."

On the contrary, the Oxford of the last generation has already become markedly more cosmopolitan,
and she has been drawing to her an ever- increasing number of able men of every class.

But these developments, thus begun, will certainly be carried much further in the near future.
Oxford will be altered. Some of her customs will be changed. This may well issue in great and
lasting good, though there will be loss as well as gain. But an Oxford man may be pardoned
if he believes and hopes that his university will remain the university he has loved. There
is a saying current in Oxford about Oxford men, which may not be out of place here--"If you
meet a stranger, and if after a time you say to him, 'I think you were at Oxford,' he accepts
it, as a matter of course, and is pleased. If you do the same to a Cambridge man, he indignantly
replies, 'How do you know that?'" No doubt the saying is turned the other way round at Cambridge,
and no doubt it is equally true and equally false of both universities, i.e. it is positively
true and negatively false, like so many other statements. But it is positively true; the Oxford
man is proud of having been at Oxford; the past and the present alike, his political and his
religious beliefs, his traditions and his social surroundings, all endear Oxford to him. May
it ever be so.

RADCLIFFE SQUARE

     "Like to a queen in pride of place, she wears
      The splendour of a crown in Radcliffe's dome."
                                      L. JOHNSON.

 [Plate III. View of Radcliffe Square]

