They talked it over, and they was going to rule me out, because they said every boy must have
a family or somebody to kill, or else it wouldn't be fair and square for the others.  Well,
nobody could think of anything to do--everybody was stumped, and set still.  I was most ready
to cry; but all at once I thought of a way, and so I offered them Miss Watson--they could kill
her.  Everybody said:

"Oh, she'll do.  That's all right.  Huck can come in."

Then they all stuck a pin in their fingers to get blood to sign with, and I made my mark on
the paper.

"Now," says Ben Rogers, "what's the line of business of this Gang?"

"Nothing only robbery and murder," Tom said.

"But who are we going to rob?--houses, or cattle, or--"

"Stuff! stealing cattle and such things ain't robbery; it's burglary," says Tom Sawyer.  "We
ain't burglars.  That ain't no sort of style.  We are highwaymen.  We stop stages and carriages
on the road, with masks on, and kill the people and take their watches and money."

"Must we always kill the people?"

"Oh, certainly.  It's best.  Some authorities think different, but mostly it's considered best
to kill them--except some that you bring to the cave here, and keep them till they're ransomed."

"Ransomed?  What's that?"

"I don't know.  But that's what they do.  I've seen it in books; and so of course that's what
we've got to do."

"But how can we do it if we don't know what it is?"

"Why, blame it all, we've GOT to do it.  Don't I tell you it's in the books?  Do you want to
go to doing different from what's in the books, and get things all muddled up?"

"Oh, that's all very fine to SAY, Tom Sawyer, but how in the nation are these fellows going
to be ransomed if we don't know how to do it to them? --that's the thing I want to get at.
Now, what do you reckon it is?"

"Well, I don't know.  But per'aps if we keep them till they're ransomed, it means that we keep
them till they're dead."

"Now, that's something LIKE.  That'll answer.  Why couldn't you said that before?  We'll keep
them till they're ransomed to death; and a bothersome lot they'll be, too--eating up everything,
and always trying to get loose."

"How you talk, Ben Rogers.  How can they get loose when there's a guard over them, ready to
shoot them down if they move a peg?"

"A guard!  Well, that IS good.  So somebody's got to set up all night and never get any sleep,
just so as to watch them.  I think that's foolishness. Why can't a body take a club and ransom
them as soon as they get here?"

"Because it ain't in the books so--that's why.  Now, Ben Rogers, do you want to do things regular,
or don't you?--that's the idea.  Don't you reckon that the people that made the books knows
what's the correct thing to do?  Do you reckon YOU can learn 'em anything?  Not by a good deal.
No, sir, we'll just go on and ransom them in the regular way."

"All right.  I don't mind; but I say it's a fool way, anyhow.  Say, do we kill the women, too?"

"Well, Ben Rogers, if I was as ignorant as you I wouldn't let on.  Kill the women?  No; nobody
ever saw anything in the books like that.  You fetch them to the cave, and you're always as
polite as pie to them; and by and by they fall in love with you, and never want to go home
any more."

"Well, if that's the way I'm agreed, but I don't take no stock in it. Mighty soon we'll have
the cave so cluttered up with women, and fellows waiting to be ransomed, that there won't be
no place for the robbers. But go ahead, I ain't got nothing to say."

Little Tommy Barnes was asleep now, and when they waked him up he was scared, and cried, and
said he wanted to go home to his ma, and didn't want to be a robber any more.

So they all made fun of him, and called him cry-baby, and that made him mad, and he said he
would go straight and tell all the secrets.  But Tom give him five cents to keep quiet, and
said we would all go home and meet next week, and rob somebody and kill some people.

Ben Rogers said he couldn't get out much, only Sundays, and so he wanted to begin next Sunday;
but all the boys said it would be wicked to do it on Sunday, and that settled the thing.  They
agreed to get together and fix a day as soon as they could, and then we elected Tom Sawyer
first captain and Jo Harper second captain of the Gang, and so started home.

I clumb up the shed and crept into my window just before day was breaking. My new clothes was
all greased up and clayey, and I was dog-tired.

CHAPTER III.

WELL, I got a good going-over in the morning from old Miss Watson on account of my clothes;
but the widow she didn't scold, but only cleaned off the grease and clay, and looked so sorry
that I thought I would behave awhile if I could.  Then Miss Watson she took me in the closet
and prayed, but nothing come of it.  She told me to pray every day, and whatever I asked for
I would get it.  But it warn't so.  I tried it. Once I got a fish-line, but no hooks.  It warn't
any good to me without hooks.  I tried for the hooks three or four times, but somehow I couldn't
make it work.  By and by, one day, I asked Miss Watson to try for me, but she said I was a
fool.  She never told me why, and I couldn't make it out no way.

I set down one time back in the woods, and had a long think about it.  I says to myself, if
a body can get anything they pray for, why don't Deacon Winn get back the money he lost on
pork?  Why can't the widow get back her silver snuffbox that was stole?  Why can't Miss Watson
fat up? No, says I to my self, there ain't nothing in it.  I went and told the widow about
it, and she said the thing a body could get by praying for it was "spiritual gifts."  This
was too many for me, but she told me what she meant--I must help other people, and do everything
I could for other people, and look out for them all the time, and never think about myself.
This was including Miss Watson, as I took it.  I went out in the woods and turned it over in
my mind a long time, but I couldn't see no advantage about it--except for the other people;
so at last I reckoned I wouldn't worry about it any more, but just let it go.  Sometimes the
widow would take me one side and talk about Providence in a way to make a body's mouth water;
but maybe next day Miss Watson would take hold and knock it all down again.  I judged I could
see that there was two Providences, and a poor chap would stand considerable show with the
widow's Providence, but if Miss Watson's got him there warn't no help for him any more.  I
thought it all out, and reckoned I would belong to the widow's if he wanted me, though I couldn't
make out how he was a-going to be any better off then than what he was before, seeing I was
so ignorant, and so kind of low-down and ornery.

Pap he hadn't been seen for more than a year, and that was comfortable for me; I didn't want
to see him no more.  He used to always whale me when he was sober and could get his hands on
me; though I used to take to the woods most of the time when he was around.  Well, about this
time he was found in the river drownded, about twelve mile above town, so people said.  They
judged it was him, anyway; said this drownded man was just his size, and was ragged, and had
uncommon long hair, which was all like pap; but they couldn't make nothing out of the face,
because it had been in the water so long it warn't much like a face at all.  They said he was
floating on his back in the water.  They took him and buried him on the bank.  But I warn't
comfortable long, because I happened to think of something.  I knowed mighty well that a drownded
man don't float on his back, but on his face.  So I knowed, then, that this warn't pap, but
a woman dressed up in a man's clothes.  So I was uncomfortable again.  I judged the old man
would turn up again by and by, though I wished he wouldn't.

We played robber now and then about a month, and then I resigned.  All the boys did.  We hadn't
robbed nobody, hadn't killed any people, but only just pretended.  We used to hop out of the
woods and go charging down on hog-drivers and women in carts taking garden stuff to market,
but we never hived any of them.  Tom Sawyer called the hogs "ingots," and he called the turnips
and stuff "julery," and we would go to the cave and powwow over what we had done, and how many
people we had killed and marked.  But I couldn't see no profit in it.  One time Tom sent a
boy to run about town with a blazing stick, which he called a slogan (which was the sign for
the Gang to get together), and then he said he had got secret news by his spies that next day
a whole parcel of Spanish merchants and rich A-rabs was going to camp in Cave Hollow with two
hundred elephants, and six hundred camels, and over a thousand "sumter" mules, all loaded down
with di'monds, and they didn't have only a guard of four hundred soldiers, and so we would
lay in ambuscade, as he called it, and kill the lot and scoop the things.  He said we must
slick up our swords and guns, and get ready.  He never could go after even a turnip-cart but
he must have the swords and guns all scoured up for it, though they was only lath and broomsticks,
and you might scour at them till you rotted, and then they warn't worth a mouthful of ashes
more than what they was before.  I didn't believe we could lick such a crowd of Spaniards and
A-rabs, but I wanted to see the camels and elephants, so I was on hand next day, Saturday,
in the ambuscade; and when we got the word we rushed out of the woods and down the hill.  But
there warn't no Spaniards and A-rabs, and there warn't no camels nor no elephants.  It warn't
anything but a Sunday-school picnic, and only a primer-class at that.  We busted it up, and
chased the children up the hollow; but we never got anything but some doughnuts and jam, though
Ben Rogers got a rag doll, and Jo Harper got a hymn-book and a tract; and then the teacher
charged in, and made us drop everything and cut.  I didn't see no di'monds, and I told Tom
Sawyer so.  He said there was loads of them there, anyway; and he said there was A-rabs there,
too, and elephants and things.  I said, why couldn't we see them, then?  He said if I warn't
so ignorant, but had read a book called Don Quixote, I would know without asking.  He said
it was all done by enchantment.  He said there was hundreds of soldiers there, and elephants
and treasure, and so on, but we had enemies which he called magicians; and they had turned
the whole thing into an infant Sunday-school, just out of spite.  I said, all right; then the
thing for us to do was to go for the magicians.  Tom Sawyer said I was a numskull.

"Why," said he, "a magician could call up a lot of genies, and they would hash you up like
nothing before you could say Jack Robinson.  They are as tall as a tree and as big around as
a church."

"Well," I says, "s'pose we got some genies to help US--can't we lick the other crowd then?"

"How you going to get them?"

"I don't know.  How do THEY get them?"

"Why, they rub an old tin lamp or an iron ring, and then the genies come tearing in, with the
thunder and lightning a-ripping around and the smoke a-rolling, and everything they're told
to do they up and do it.  They don't think nothing of pulling a shot-tower up by the roots,
and belting a Sunday-school superintendent over the head with it--or any other man."

"Who makes them tear around so?"

