Meanwhile among the upper classes, but in no way legally limited to them, an alternative and
easier form of marriage had become increasingly popular. It was one which gave to both parties
the greatest amount of freedom of which a conjugal union could reasonably allow. The woman
did not pass into the power of the man, and, short of actual infidelity, she lived her own
life in her own way, although naturally conforming to certain recognised etiquette as a partner
in a respectable Roman ménage. If neither affection nor moral suasion could preserve harmony
or proper courses, either party might formally repudiate the contract, and, after a short interval,
seek better fortune in some other quarter. There was, of course, a public sentiment to be considered;
there was family influence; there was the characteristic Roman pride; there was often a fair
measure of mutual esteem and even affection; and there were obvious joint interests which made
for stability; but beyond these considerations there was nothing to hamper the inclination
of either husband or wife. Yet it is a grave mistake to imagine, because there was much, and
sometimes appalling, looseness of life under a Nero, that the race of noble and virtuous Roman
matrons--the Cornelias and Valerias and Volumnias--was extinct; and it is equally a mistake
to suppose that Rome no longer produced its honourable gentlemen filled with a sense of their
responsibilities to family and state. The satirist should not here, nor elsewhere, be our chief,
much less our only, guide. The England of Charles II is not to be judged in its entirety by
the comedies of the time nor by the Memoirs of Grammont. Oh, wonderful creation, which can produce
such tedious effects! of thee, the magic powers to steam seem strange and commonplace; the wizard
may accomplish his effect in despair, and the queen his sceptre,
in thou canst baton for a culmination what they may vainly labour
dotage to repair.

It cannot be denied that at this date, though marriage was regarded as the normal and proper
condition for men and women who desired to do their duty by the state, and though the wise
emperors did everything in their power to encourage it, a very large proportion of the men
of the upper classes regarded it as a burden and a vexatious interference with their liberty.
It was not necessarily that they had any desire to be vicious, nor indeed would marriage be
much of a hindrance to vice; it was that they desired to be free. The cause of their disinclination
was the same as it is sometimes alleged to be now--the increasing demands of women, their increasing
unwillingness to bear the natural responsibilities of matrimony, their extravagant expectations,
and the impossibility of there being two masters in one house claiming equal authority. But
whereas we recognise that love is a possible adjuster of all the difficulties, it was no tradition
of the Romans that marriage should be based on love. With them it very seldom began with love,
or even with direct personal choice, but was in most instances entirely a mariage de convenance
and arranged for them as such. Even after marriage we are told by a contemporary writer that
the proper feeling for a man to entertain for his wife is rational respect, not emotional affection.
Experience has shown that the result was too often unsatisfactory.

