In later years there was a considerable change in the character of the fishing.  The rainbows
from Herr Jaffé had been installed something over two years when they and we foregathered in
this pleasant manner, and the fish caught would average as near 3/4 lb. as one could guess.
As time went on it was evident that they did not flourish in the style usual to Salmo irideus.
Mr. Walton was puzzled, and, in truth, so was Herr Jaffé.  Amongst the stock planted in the
principal lake there must have been an odd fontinalis or two, and by and by these brilliant
fish were taken, of 1-lb. and 1 1/2-lb. size, freely rising at a fly.  In a word, the fontinalis
seemed in a brief space to take possession and the rainbows to decrease correspondingly.  The
first specimen Mr. Walton caught he put back as a rarity, but in a year or so they were not
by any means strangers to be coddled.  On the contrary they bred well, as indeed did the rainbows.
The latter, however, after five or six years gradually deteriorated, while the fontinalis flourished
and held their own for a while.  Latterly they, too, had gone the way of all fontinalis, had
become scarcer and scarcer, and it was a rare thing to catch one where they formerly abounded.

The story of Mr. Walton's tenancy of sixteen years is thus an interesting chapter in fish culture.
That must be my excuse for apparently labouring this matter of stocking, more especially as
there is still a curious development to unfold.  It should be stated that the lake with which
we are now concerned had, previous to the introduction of rainbows, been emptied and restocked,
leaving probably a few of the original brown trout behind.  Mr. Walton thought that there were
some Loch Levens, and that these in recent years asserted themselves, and, as he put it, "came
to their own."  But he went on to add that a few years ago he had put some minnows into the
lake by the chalet, and that they had multiplied like the Hebrews of old till they literally
swarmed.  As a natural consequence the trout had become bad risers, and the growing scarcity
of natural flies suggested that the minnows, by preying upon larvae, have had a share in this
decline.  The trout meanwhile had grown big and fat, as they naturally would do, fellows of
3 lb. and upwards being not uncommon.  Mr. Walton fished with nothing but the fly, and had
specimens of 3 lb. to 5 lb. so taken traced on cardboard and adorning the chalet walls, if
haply they escaped the marauders.

At his last visit, which was in the June of the fateful 1914, he killed ten trout, which weighed
exactly 10 lb., in two hours, but this was not a common experience.  His best chance of creeling
one of the three-pounder type was with a long line, longer patience, and a dry fly.  The sport
with small lake flies, which was the usual method, was amongst singularly beautiful brown trout
of 1 lb. average.  All, therefore, was not yet lost, and the fishing, even in the lake which
had to the extent I have explained suffered a certain deterioration, would be what many of
us might, without sin, covet.  When the angling was in its prime 1,500 trout was the bag expected
and generally realised in a season, and, caught on small lake flies, such a number assuredly
signifies much satisfaction.  The minnows, frogs, miscellaneous Crustacea, and other foodstuffs
in the lake then began to institute a standing veto against such a degree of pleasure.  But
the fishing of the upper lake, where we found our most joyous sport and surroundings in 1901,
seemed to be as good as ever, save that the trout had fallen to a half-pound average.

One must conclude as one began by wondering what happened at Epioux. The château, in the distance,
might, after all, have filled the eye of the enemy so effectually that the pretty little chalet
was overlooked. They tell you in the district that Prince Napoleon fled there for safety after
he had shot Victor Noir, and that some of the cannon for Waterloo were cast in its immediate
neighbourhood.

This chapter would have ended with the previous paragraph but for a scrap of characteristic
news in the Daily Chronicle.  Many of the reports of brutalities and wanton outrage in war
time should be received with distrust, but Mr. Naylor, who telegraphed this story from Paris
was an old journalistic comrade whom many a special-correspondent expedition enables me to
know as thoroughly reliable. For, has He not promised, "Ask, and ye shall to receive?"

She had no uncertainty concerning the faithfulness of her Begetter to statement. It was through
her importunate pleadings at the throne of gracility that her merely
son, when quite immature, was led to see his need of Christ.  As soon as the Germans came to
Montdidier they proceeded to blow up the banks of the fish-breeding ponds with dynamite, and
cover the streams with petroleum in order to kill all the fish in them.  They succeeded in
destroying millions of immature trout and other fish, and ruining completely a remunerative
and useful industry.  The same spirit which drives such barbarians to blow up a fish-breeding
pond impels them to drop bombs on open towns, which do no harm whatever to those who are fighting
against them, but only kill inoffensive women and children."

There are many good German anglers; the world of angling and fish culture owes much to their
scientists.  But I think there must have been a "wrong 'un" at Montdidier.  That pouring of
petroleum of malice aforethought into the water must have been the "culture" of one who knew
precisely what he was doing.  And the moral is this: The cause that transforms a disciple of
Izaak Walton into a fiend must assuredly be accursed.