Scarcely had the settlers taken stock of their surroundings on the Red River when they were
chilled to the marrow with a sudden terror. Towards them came racing on horseback a formidable-looking
troop, decked out in all the accoutrements of the Indian--spreading feather, dangling tomahawk,
and a thick coat of war-paint.  To the newcomers it was a never-to-be-forgotten spectacle.
But when the riders came within close range, shouting and gesticulating, it was seen that they
wore borrowed apparel, and that their speech was a medley of French and Indian dialects.  They
were a troop of Bois Brûlés, Métis, or half-breeds of French and Indian blood, aping for the
time the manners of their mothers' people.  Their object was to tell Lord Selkirk's party that
settlers were not wanted on the Red River; that it was the country of the fur traders, and
that settlers must go farther afield.

{55}

This was surely an inhospitable reception, after a long and fatiguing journey.  Plainly the
Nor'westers were at it again, trying now to frighten the colonists away, as they had tried
before to keep them from coming.  These mounted half-breeds were a deputation from Fort Gibraltar,
the Nor'westers' nearest trading-post, which stood two miles higher up at 'the Forks,' where
the Red River is joined by the Assiniboine.

Nevertheless, Governor Macdonell, having planned as dignified a ceremony as the circumstances
would allow, sent to the Nor'westers at Fort Gibraltar an invitation to be present at the official
inauguration of Lord Selkirk's colony.  At the appointed hour, on September 4, several traders
from the fort, together with a few French Canadians and Indians, put in an appearance.  In
the presence of this odd company Governor Macdonell read the Earl of Selkirk's patent to Assiniboia.
About him was drawn up a guard of honour, and overhead the British ensign fluttered in the
breeze.  Six small swivel-guns, which had been brought with the colonists, belched forth a
salute to mark the occasion.  The Nor'westers were visibly impressed by this show of authority
and power.  In pretended friendship they {56} entered Governor Macdonell's tent and accepted
his hospitality before departing.  At variance with the scowls of trapper and trader towards
the settlers was the attitude of the full-blooded Indians who were camping along the Red River.
From the outset these red-skins were friendly, and their conduct was soon to stand the settlers
in good stead.

The provisions brought from Hudson Bay were fast diminishing and would soon be at an end. 
True, the Nor'westers offered for sale supplies of oats, barley, poultry, and the like, but
their prices were high and the settlers had not the means of purchase.  But there was other
food. Myriads of buffalo roamed over the Great Plains.  Herds of these animals often darkened
the horizon like a slowly moving cloud.  In summer they might be seen cropping the prairie
grass, or plunging and rolling about in muddy 'wallows.'  In winter they moved to higher levels,
where lay less snow to be removed from the dried grass which they devoured.  At that season
those who needed to hunt the buffalo for food must follow them wherever they went.  This was
now the plight of the settlers: winter was coming on and food was already scarce.  The settlers
must seek out the winter haunts of the buffalo.  {57} The Indians were of great service, for
they offered to act as guides.

A party to hunt the buffalo was organized.  Like a train of pilgrims, the majority of the colonists
now set out afoot.  Their dark-skinned escort, mounted on wiry ponies, bent their course in
a southerly direction.  The redskins eyed with amusement the queer-clad strangers whom they
were guiding.  These were ignorant of the ways of the wild prairie country and badly equipped
to face its difficulties.  Sometimes the Indians indulged in horse-play, and a few of them
were unable to keep their hands off the settlers' possessions.  One Highlander lost an ancient
musket which he treasured.  A wedding ring was taken by an Indian guide from the hand of one
of the women.  Five days of straggling march brought the party to a wide plateau where the
Indians said that the buffalo were accustomed to pasture.  Here the party halted, at the junction
of the Red and Pembina rivers, and awaited the arrival of Captain Macdonell, who came up next
day on horseback with three others of his party.

Temporary tents and cabins were erected, and steps were taken to provide more commodious shelters.
But this second winter {58} threatened to be almost as uncomfortable as the first had been
on Hudson Bay.  Captain Macdonell selected a suitable place south of the Pembina river, and
on this site a storehouse and other buildings were put up.  The end of the year saw a neat
little encampment, surrounded by palisades, where before had been nothing but unbroken prairie.
As a finishing touch, a flagstaff was raised within the stockade, and in honour of one of Lord
Selkirk's titles the name Fort Daer was given to the whole.  In the meantime a body of seventeen
Irishmen, led by Owen Keveny, had arrived from the old country, having accomplished the feat
of making their way across the ocean to Hudson Bay and up to the settlement during the single
season of 1812.  This additional force was housed at once in Fort Daer along with the rest.
Until spring opened, buffalo meat was to be had in plenty, the Indians bringing in quantities
of it for a slight reward.  So unconscious were the buffalo of danger that they came up to
the very palisades, giving the settlers an excellent view of their drab-brown backs and fluffy,
curling manes.

On the departure of the herds in the springtime there was no reason why the colonists {59}
should remain any longer at Fort Daer.  Accordingly the entire band plodded wearily back to
the ground which they had vacated above 'the Forks' on the Red River.  As the season of 1813
advanced, more solid structures were erected on this site, and the place became known as Colony
Gardens.  An attempt was now made to prepare the soil and to sow some seed, but it was a difficult
task, as the only agricultural implement possessed by the settlers was the hoe. They next turned
to the river in search of food, only to find it almost empty of fish.  Even the bushes, upon
which clusters of wild berries ought to have been found, were practically devoid of fruit.
Nature seemed to have veiled her countenance from the hapless settlers, and to be mocking their
most steadfast efforts.  In their dire need they were driven to use weeds for food.  An indigenous
plant called the prairie apple grew in abundance, and the leaves of a species of the goosefoot
family were found to be nourishing.

With the coming of autumn 1813 the experiences of the previous year were repeated.  Once more
they went over the dreary road to Fort Daer. Then followed the most cruel winter that the settlers
had yet endured. The {60} snow fell thickly and lay in heavy drifts, and the buffalo with animal
foresight had wandered to other fields.  The Nor'westers sold the colonists a few provisions,
but were egging on their allies, the Bois Brûlés, who occupied a small post in the vicinity
of the Pembina, to annoy them whenever possible.  It required courage of the highest order
on the part of the colonists to battle through the winter.  They were in extreme poverty, and
in many cases their frost-bitten, starved bodies were wrapped only in rags before spring came.
Those who still had their plaids, or other presentable garments, were prepared to part with
them for a morsel of food.  With the coming of spring once more, the party travelled northward
to 'the Forks' of the Red River, resolved never again to set foot within the gates of Fort Daer.

Meanwhile, some news of the desperate state of affairs on the Red River had reached the Earl
of Selkirk in Scotland.  So many were the discouragements that one might forgive him if at
this juncture he had flung his colonizing scheme to the winds as a lost venture.  The lord
of St Mary's Isle did not, however, abandon hope; he was a persistent man and not easily turned
aside from his {61} purpose.  Now he went in person to the straths and glens of Sutherlandshire
to recruit more settlers.  For several years the crofters in this section of the Highlands
had been ejected in ruthless fashion from their holdings. Those who aimed to 'quench the smoke
of cottage fires' had sent a regiment of soldiers into this shire to cow the Highlanders into
submission.  Lord Selkirk came at a critical moment and extended a helping hand to the outcasts.
A large company agreed to join the colony of Assiniboia, and under Selkirk's own superintendence
they were equipped for the journey.  As the sad-eyed exiles were about to leave the port of
Helmsdale, the earl passed among them, dispensing words of comfort and of cheer.

This contingent numbered ninety-seven persons.  The vessel carrying them from Helmsdale reached
the Prince of Wales of the Hudson's Bay Company, on which they embarked, at Stromness in the
Orkneys.  The parish of Kildonan, in Sutherlandshire, had the largest representation among
these emigrants.  Names commonly met with on the ship's register were Gunn, Matheson, MacBeth,
Sutherland, and Bannerman.

After the Prince of Wales had put to sea, {62} fever broke out on board, and the contagion
quickly spread among the passengers.  Many of them died.  They had escaped from beggary on
shore only to perish at sea and to be consigned to a watery grave.  The vessel reached Hudson
Bay in good time, but for some unknown reason the captain put into Churchill, over a hundred
miles north of York Factory.  This meant that the newcomers must camp on the Churchill for
the winter; there was nothing else to be done.  Fortunately partridge were numerous in the
neighbourhood of their encampment, and, as the uneventful months dragged by, the settlers had
an unstinted supply of fresh food.  In April 1814 forty-one members of the party, about half
of whom were women, undertook to walk over the snow to York Factory.  The men drew the sledges
on which their provisions were loaded and went in advance, clearing the way for the women.
In the midst of the company strode a solemn-visaged piper.  At one moment, as a dirge wailed
forth, the spirits of the people drooped and they felt themselves beaten and forsaken.  But
anon the music changed.  Up through the scrubby pine and over the mantle of snow rang the skirl
of the undefeated; and as they heard the gathering song of Bonnie Dundee {63} or the summons
to fight for Royal Charlie, they pressed forward with unfaltering steps.

This advance party came to York Factory, and, continuing the journey, reached Colony Gardens
without misadventure early in the summer.  They were better husbandmen than their predecessors,
and they quickly addressed themselves to the cultivation of the soil.  Thirty or forty bushels
of potatoes were planted in the black loam of the prairie. These yielded a substantial increase.
The thrifty Sutherlanders might have saved the tottering colony, had not Governor Macdonell
committed an act which, however legally right, was nothing less than foolhardy in the circumstances,
and which brought disaster in its train.

In his administration of the affairs of the colony Macdonell had shown good executive ability
and a willingness to endure every trial that his followers endured.  Towards the Nor'westers,
however, he was inclined to be stubborn and arrogant.  He was convinced that he must adopt
stringent measures against them.  He determined to assert his authority as governor of the
colony under Lord Selkirk's patent.  Undoubtedly Macdonell had reason to be indignant at the
{64} unfriendly attitude of the fur traders; yet, so far, this had merely taken the form of
petty annoyance, and might have been met by good nature and diplomacy.

In January 1814 Governor Macdonell issued a proclamation pronouncing it unlawful for any person
who dealt in furs to remove from the colony of Assiniboia supplies of flesh, fish, grain, or
vegetable.  Punishment would be meted out to those who offended against this official order.
The aim of Macdonell was to keep a supply of food in the colony for the support of the new
settlers.  He was, however, offering a challenge to the fur traders, for his policy meant in
effect that these had no right in Assiniboia, that it was to be kept for the use of settlers
alone. Such a mandate could not fail to rouse intense hostility among the traders, whose doctrine
was the very opposite.  The Nor'westers were quick to seize the occasion to strike at the struggling
colony.

{65}

CHAPTER VII

THE BEGINNING OF STRIFE

Stormy days were coming.  Once Governor Macdonell had published his edict, he did not hesitate
to enforce its terms.  Information had been received at Colony Gardens that the Nor'westers
had stored a quantity of provisions in their trading-post at the mouth of the Souris, a large
southern tributary of the Assiniboine.  It was clear that, in defiance of Macdonell's decree,
they meant to send food supplies out of Assiniboia to support their trading-posts elsewhere.
The fort at Souris was in close proximity to Brandon House on the Assiniboine, a post founded
by the Hudson's Bay Company in 1794.  Macdonell decided on strong action.  His secretary, John
Spencer, was ordered to go to the Souris in the capacity of a sheriff, accompanied by a strong
guard and carrying a warrant in his pocket.  When Spencer drew near the stockades of the Nor'westers'
fort and found the {66} gate closed against him, he commanded his men to batter it in with
their hatchets.  They obeyed with alacrity, and having filed inside the fort, took charge of
the contents of the storehouse.  Six hundred bags of pemmican were seized and carried to Brandon
House.  Already there was a state of war in Assiniboia.

The territory which comprised the colony was of great value economically to the North-West
Company.  The food supplies which supported its traders in the far interior were largely drawn
from this area.  In the eyes of the Nor'westers, Sheriff John Spencer had performed an act
of pure brigandage at their Souris post.  Still, they were in no hurry to execute a counter-move.
In order to make no mistake they thought it best to restrain themselves until their partners
should hold their summer meeting at Fort William,[1] on Lake Superior.

The partners of the North-West Company {67} met at Fort William in the month of July 1814.
Their fond hope had been that Lord Selkirk's colony would languish and die.  Instead, it was
flourishing and waxing aggressive.  The governor of Assiniboia had published an edict which
he seemed determined to enforce, to the ruin of the business of the North-West Company.  The
grizzled partners, as they rubbed elbows in secret conclave, decided that something must be
done to crush this troublesome settlement.  Whether or not they formed any definite plan cannot
be ascertained.  It is scarcely believable that at this meeting was plotted the opposition
to Lord Selkirk's enterprise which was to begin with deceit and perfidy and to culminate in
bloodshed.  Among the Nor'westers were men of great worth and integrity.  There were, however,
others in their ranks who proved base and irresponsible. During this conference at Fort William
a bitter animosity was expressed against Lord Selkirk and the company which had endorsed his
colonizing project.  It was the Nor'westers' misfortune and fault that some of their number
were prepared to vent this outspoken enmity in deeds of criminal violence.

Two 'wintering partners' of the {68} North-West Company--men who remained in the interior during
the winter--appear to have been entrusted by their fellows with the task of dealing with the
settlers on the Red River.  Both these men, Duncan Cameron and Alexander Macdonell, had a wide
experience of the prairie country.  Of the pair, Cameron was unquestionably the more resourceful.
In view of the fact that later in life he became a trusted representative of the county of
Glengarry in the legislature of Upper Canada, there has been a tendency to gloss over some
of his misdemeanours when he was still a trader in furs.  But he was a sinister character.
His principal aim, on going to the Red River, was to pay lavish court to the settlers in order
to deceive them.  He was a born actor, and could assume at will the gravest or the gayest of
demeanours or any disposition he chose to put on.

Alexander Macdonell, the other emissary of the Nor'westers, was of an inferior type.  He was
crafty enough never to burn his own fingers. Macdonell had some influence over the Indians
of the Qu'Appelle district and of the more distant west.  His immediate proposal was to attract
a band of redskins to the neighbourhood of Colony Gardens with the {69} avowed intention of
creating a panic among the settlers.

Shortly after the July meeting at Fort William these two men started on their mission for the
Red River.  On August 5, while at a stopping-point by the way, Alexander Macdonell dated a
letter to a friend in Montreal.  The tenor of this letter would indicate that only a portion
of the Nor'westers were ready to adopt extreme measures against the settlement.  'Something
serious will undoubtedly take place,' was Macdonell's callous admission.  'Nothing but the
complete downfall of the colony,' he continued, 'will satisfy some, by fair or foul means--a
most desirable object if it can be accomplished.  So here is at them with all my heart and energy.'

Towards the end of August the twain arrived at Fort Gibraltar, where they parted company. 
Alexander Macdonell proceeded to his winter quarters at Fort Qu'Appelle, on the river of the
same name which empties into the upper Assiniboine.  Duncan Cameron made his appearance with
considerable pomp and circumstance at Fort Gibraltar.  The settlers soon knew him as 'Captain'
Duncan Cameron, of the Voyageur Corps, a battalion which had ranged the border during the recent
{70} war with the United States.  Cameron decked himself in a crimson uniform.  He had a sword
by his side and the outward bearing of a gallant officer.  Lest there should be any want of
belief on the part of the colonists, he caused his credentials to be tacked up on the gateway
of Fort Gibraltar.  There, in legible scrawl, was an order appointing him as captain and Alexander
Macdonell as lieutenant in the Voyageur Corps.  The sight of a soldier sent a thrill through
the breasts of the Highlanders and the fight-loving Irish.  Cameron had in fact once belonged
to the Voyageurs, and no one at Colony Gardens yet knew that the corps had been disbanded the
year before.  At a later date Lord Selkirk took pains to prove that Cameron had been guilty
of rank imposture.

To pose in the guise of a captain of militia was not Duncan Cameron's only role.  Having impressed
his martial importance upon all, he next went among the settlers as a comrade.  He could chat
at ease in Gaelic, and this won the confidence of the Highlanders.  Some of the colonists were
invited to his table.  These he treated with studied kindness, and he furnished them with such
an abundance of good food that they felt disgust for the scant {71} and humble fare allowed
them at the settlement.  At the same time Cameron began to make bold insinuations in his conversation.
He had, he said, heard news from the interior that a body of Indians would raid them in the
spring.  He harped upon the deplorable state in which the settlers were living; out of fellow-feeling
for them, he said, he would gladly act as their deliverer.  Why did they not throw themselves
upon the mercies of the North-West Company?  In their unhappy condition, abandoned, as he hinted,
by Lord Selkirk to their own resources, there was but one thing for them to do.  They must
leave the Red River far behind, and he would guarantee that the Nor'westers would assist them.

As a result of Cameron's intrigues, signs of wavering allegiance were soon in evidence.  One
of the settlers in particular, George Campbell, became a traitor in the camp.  Campbell had
negotiated with Lord Selkirk personally during Selkirk's visit to Sutherlandshire.  Now he
complained vigorously of his treatment since leaving Scotland, and was in favour of accepting
the terms which Cameron, as a partner in the North-West Company, offered.  As many colonists
as desired it, said Cameron, would be transported by the {72} Nor'westers free of charge to
Montreal or other parts of Canada.  A year's provisions would be supplied to them, and each
colonist would be granted two hundred acres of fertile land.  Tempting bribes of money were
offered some of them as a bait.  An influential Highlander, Alexander M'Lean, was promised
two hundred pounds from Cameron's own pocket, on condition that he would take his family away.
Several letters which were penned by the sham officer during the winter of 1815 can still be
read.  'I am glad,' he wrote to a couple of settlers in February, 'that the eyes of some of
you are getting open at last ... and that you now see your past follies in obeying the unlawful
orders of a plunderer, and I may say, of a highway robber, for what took place here last spring
can be called nothing else but manifest robbery.'

As yet Duncan Cameron had refrained from the use of force, but as winter wore on towards spring
he saw that, to complete his work, force would be necessary.  The proportion of settlers remaining
loyal to Lord Selkirk was by no means insignificant, and Cameron feared the pieces of artillery
at Colony Gardens.  He decided on a bold effort to get these field-pieces into his possession.
{73} Early in April he made a startling move.  Miles Macdonell was away at Fort Daer, and Archibald
Macdonald, the deputy-governor of the colony, was in charge.  To him Cameron sent a peremptory
demand in writing for the field-pieces, that they might be 'out of harm's way.'

This missive was first given into the hands of the traitor George Campbell, who read it to
the settlers on Sunday after church.  Next day, while rations were being distributed, it was
delivered to the deputy-governor in the colony storehouse.  About one o'clock on the same afternoon,
George Campbell and a few kindred spirits broke into the building where the field-pieces were
stored, took the guns outside, and placed them on horse-sledges for the purpose of drawing
them away. At this juncture a musket was fired as a signal, and Duncan Cameron with some Bois
Brûlés stole from a clump of trees.  'Well done, my hearty fellows,' Cameron exclaimed, as
he came hurrying up.  The guns were borne away and lodged within the precincts of Fort Gibraltar,
and a number of the colonists now took sides openly with Duncan Cameron and the Nor'westers.

Meanwhile Cameron's colleague, Alexander {74} Macdonell, was not succeeding in his efforts
to incite the Indians about Fort Qu'Appelle against the colony.  He found that the Indians
did not lust for the blood of the settlers; and when he appeared at Fort Gibraltar, in May,
he had with him only a handful of Plain Crees.  These redskins lingered about the fort for
a time, being well supplied with liquor to make them pot-valiant.  During their stay a number
of horses belonging to the settlers were wounded by arrows, but it is doubtful if the perpetrators
of these outrages were Indians.  The chief of the Crees finally visited Governor Miles Macdonell,
and convinced him that his warriors intended the colonists no ill.  Before the Indians departed
they sent to Colony Gardens a pipe of peace--the red man's token of friendship.

An equally futile attempt was made about the same time by two traders of the North-West Company
to persuade Katawabetay, chief of the Chippewas, to lead a band of his tribesmen against the
settlement. Katawabetay was at Sand Lake, just west of Lake Superior, when his parley with
the Nor'westers took place.  The two traders promised to give Katawabetay and his warriors
all the merchandise and rum in three of the {75} company's posts, if they would raise the hatchet
and descend upon the Red River settlers.  The cautious chief wished to know whether this was
the desire of the military authorities.  The traders had to confess that it was merely a wish
of the North-West Company. Katawabetay then demurred, saying that, before beginning hostilities,
he must speak about the matter to one of the provincial military leaders on St Joseph's Island,
at the head of Lake Huron.

Finding it impossible to get the Indians to raid the settlement, Cameron now adopted other
methods.  His party had been increasing in numbers day by day.  Joined by the deserters from
the colony, the Nor'westers pitched their camp a short distance down the river from Fort Gibraltar.
At this point guns were mounted, and at Fort Gibraltar Cameron's men were being drilled.  On
June 11 a chosen company, furnished with loaded muskets and ammunition, were marched towards
Governor Macdonell's house, where they concealed themselves behind some trees.  James White,
the surgeon of the colony, was seen walking close to the house.  A puff of grey smoke came
from the Nor'westers' cover. The shot went wide.  Then John Bourke, the {76} store-keeper,
heard a bullet whiz by his head, and narrowly escaped death.  The colonists at once seized
their arms and answered the Nor'westers' fire.  In the exchange of volleys, however, they were
at a disadvantage, as their adversaries remained hidden from view.  When the Nor'westers decamped,
four persons on the colonists' side had been wounded.

Apparently there was no longer security for life or property among those still adhering to
Lord Selkirk's cause at Colony Gardens.  Duncan Cameron, employing a subterfuge, now said that
his main object was to capture Governor Macdonell.  If this were accomplished he would leave
the settlers unmolested.  In order to safeguard the colony Macdonell voluntarily surrendered
himself to the Nor'westers.  Cameron was jubilant.  With the loyal settlers worsted and almost
defenceless, and the governor of Assiniboia his prisoner, he could dictate his own terms. 
He issued an explicit command that the settlers must vacate the Red River without delay.  A
majority of the settlers decided to obey, and their exodus began under Cameron's guidance.
About one hundred and forty, inclusive of women and children, stepped into the canoes of the
North-West Company to be borne away {77} to Canada.  Miles Macdonell was taken to Montreal
under arrest.

The forty or fifty colonists who still clung to their homes at Colony Gardens were left to
be dealt with by Alexander Macdonell, who was nothing loath to finish Cameron's work of destruction.
Once more muskets were brought into play; horses and cattle belonging to the settlers were
spirited away; and several of the colonists were placed under arrest on trumped-up charges.
These dastardly tactics were followed by an organized attempt to raid the settlement.  On June
25 a troop of Bois Brûlés gathered on horseback, armed to the teeth and led by Alexander Macdonell
and a half-breed named Cuthbert Grant.  The settlers, though mustering barely one-half the
strength of the raiders, resolved to make a stand, and placed themselves under the command
of John M'Leod, a trader in the service of the Hudson's Bay Company.  The Bois Brûlés bore
down upon the settlement in menacing array.  The colonists took what shelter they could find
and prepared for battle. Fighting coolly, they made their shots tell.  The advancing column
hesitated and halted in dismay at the courage of the defenders.  Then John M'Leod {78} remembered
a cannon which was rusting unused at the small post which the Hudson's Bay Company had on the
river.  Hugh M'Lean and two others were ordered to haul this to the blacksmith's shanty.  The
three men soon found the cannon, and set it up in the smithy.  For shot, cart chains were chopped
into sections; and the Bois Brûlés were treated to a raking volley of 'chain shot.'  This was
something they had not looked for; their courage failed them, and they galloped out of range.

But the remnant of Lord Selkirk's settlers who had dared to linger on the Red River were at
the end of their resources.  Taking counsel together, they resolved to quit the colony.  They
launched their boats on the river, and followed the canoe route which led to Hudson Bay. They
were accompanied by a band of Indians of the Saulteaux tribe as far as the entrance to Lake
Winnipeg.  From there a short journey placed them outside the boundaries of Assiniboia.  When
they arrived at the northern end of Lake Winnipeg they found a temporary refuge, in the vicinity
of Norway House, on the Jack river.

Alexander Macdonell and his Bois Brûlés were now free utterly to blot out Colony {79} Gardens.
They visited every part of the settlement and set fire to everything.  Not a single house was
left standing.  Cabins, storehouses, the colony's grinding mill--all were reduced to a mass
of ruins.  Cameron's duplicity had been crowned with success; Alexander Macdonell's armed marauders
had finished the task; Lord Selkirk's colony of farmers-in-the-making was scattered far and
wide. Nevertheless, the Nor'westers were not undisputed masters of the situation.  In the Hudson's
Bay smithy, but ten feet square, four men continued the struggle.  John M'Leod, James M'Intosh,
and Archibald Currie, of the Hudson's Bay Company, defended their trading-post, with the assistance
of 'noble Hugh M'Lean,' the only settler remaining on the Red River banks.  By day and by night
these men were forced to keep watch and ward.  Whenever the Bois Brûlés drew near, the 'chain
shot' drove them hurriedly to cover.  At length the enemy withdrew, and M'Leod and his comrades
walked out to survey the scene of desolation.

[1] After it had been discovered that the Grand Portage was situated partly on land awarded
by treaty to the United States, the Nor'westers, in 1803, had erected a new factory thirty
or forty miles farther north where the Kaministikwia river enters Thunder Bay.  This post became
their chief fur emporium west of Montreal, and was given the name Fort William as a tribute
to William M'Gillivray, one of the leading partners in the company.

{80}

CHAPTER VIII

COLIN ROBERTSON, THE AVENGER

