On January 12 the ship reached a point five and a half miles east of Butler Point.  I took
a party across rubbly and waterlogged ice to within thirty yards of the piedmont ice, but owing
to high cliffs and loose slushy ice could not make a landing.  The land-ice had broken away
at the point cut by the cross-bearings of the depot, but was visible in the form of two large
bergs grounded to the north of Cape Bernacchi.  There was no sign of the depot or of any person
having visited the vicinity. We returned to the ship and proceeded across the Sound to Cape
Bernacchi.

The next day I took a party ashore with the object of searching the area north of Glacier Tongue,
including Razorback Island, for traces of the two missing men.  We reached the Cape Evans Hut
at 1.30 p.m., and Joyce and I left at 3 p.m. for the Razorbacks.  We conducted a search round
both islands, returning to the hut at 7 p.m.  The search had been fruitless.  On the 14th I
started with Joyce to search the north side of Glacier Tongue, but the surface drift, with
wind from south-east, decided me not to continue, as the ice was moving rapidly at the end
of Cape Evans, and the pool between the hut and Inaccessible Island was growing larger. The
wind increased in the afternoon.  The next day a south-east blizzard was blowing, with drift
half up the islands.  I considered it unsafe to sledge that day, especially as the ice was
breaking away from the south side of Cape Evans into the pool.  We spent the day putting the
hut in order.

We got up at 3 a.m. on the 16th.  The weather was fine and calm. I started at 4.20 with Joyce
to the south at the greatest possible speed. We reached Glacier Tongue about one and a half
miles from the seaward end.  Wherever there were not precipitous cliffs there was an even snow-
slope to the top.  From the top we searched with glasses; there was nothing to be seen but
blue ice, crevassed, showing no protuberances. We came down and, half running, half walking,
worked about three miles towards the root of the glacier; but I could see there was not the
slightest chance of finding any remains owing to the enormous snowdrifts wherever the cliffs
were accessible.  The base of the steep cliffs had drifts ten to fifteen feet high.  We arrived
back at the hut at 9.40, and left almost immediately for the ship.  I considered that all places
likely to hold the bodies of Mackintosh and Hayward had now been searched.  There was no doubt
to my mind that they met their deaths on the breaking of the thin ice when the blizzard arose
on May 8, 1916.  During my absence from the hut Wild and Jack had erected a cross to the memory
of the three men who had lost their lives in the service of the Expedition.

Captain Davis took the ship northward on January 17.  The ice conditions were unfavourable
and pack barred the way.  We stood over to the western coast towards Dunlop Island and followed
it to Granite Harbour.  No mark or depot of any kind was seen.  The 'Aurora' reached the main
pack, about sixty miles from Cape Adare, on January 22.  The ice was closed ahead, and Davis
went south in open water to wait for better conditions.  A north-west gale on January 28 enabled
the ship to pass between the pack and the land off Cape Adare, and we crossed the Antarctic
Circle on the last day of the month.  On February 4 Davis sent a formal report to the New Zealand
Government by wireless, and on February 9 the 'Aurora' was berthed at Wellington.  We were
welcomed like returned brothers by the New Zealand people.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE FINAL PHASE

The foregoing chapters of this book represent the general narrative of our Expedition.  That
we failed in accomplishing the object we set out for was due, I venture to assert, not to any
neglect or lack of organization, but to the overwhelming natural obstacles, especially the
unprecedentedly severe summer conditions on the Weddell Sea side. But though the Expedition
was a failure in one respect, I think it was successful in many others.  A large amount of
important scientific work was carried out.  The meteorological observations in particular have
an economic bearing.  The hydrographical work in the Weddell Sea has done much to clear up
the mystery of this, the least known of all the seas. I have appended a short scientific memorandum
to this volume, but the more detailed scientific results must wait until a more suitable time
arrives, when more stable conditions prevail.  Then results will be worked out.

To the credit side of the Expedition one can safely say that the comradeship and resource of
the members of the Expedition was worthy of the highest traditions of Polar service; and it
was a privilege to me to have had under my command men who, through dark days and the stress
and strain of continuous danger, kept up their spirits and carried out their work regardless
of themselves and heedless of the limelight.  The same energy and endurance that they showed
in the Antarctic they brought to the greater war in the Old World.  And having followed our
fortunes in the South you may be interested to know that practically every member of the Expedition
was employed in one or other branches of the active fighting forces during the war. Several
are still abroad, and for this very reason it has been impossible for me to obtain certain
details for this book.

Of the fifty-three men who returned out of the fifty-six who left for the South, three have
since been killed and five wounded.  Four decorations have been won, and several members of
the Expedition have been mentioned in dispatches.  McCarthy, the best and most efficient of
the sailors, always cheerful under the most trying circumstances, and who for these very reasons
I chose to accompany me on the boat journey to South Georgia, was killed at his gun in the
Channel. Cheetham, the veteran of the Antarctic, who had been more often south of the Antarctic
circle than any man, was drowned when the vessel he was serving in was torpedoed, a few weeks
before the Armistice. Ernest Wild, Frank Wild's brother, was killed while minesweeping in the
Mediterranean.  Mauger, the carpenter on the 'Aurora', was badly wounded while serving with
the New Zealand Infantry, so that he is unable to follow his trade again.  He is now employed
by the New Zealand Government.  The two surgeons, Macklin and McIlroy, served in France and
Italy, McIlroy being badly wounded at Ypres.  Frank Wild, in view of his unique experience
of ice and ice conditions, was at once sent to the North Russian front, where his zeal and
ability won him the highest praise.

Macklin served first with the Yorks and later transferred as medical officer to the Tanks,
where he did much good work.  Going to the Italian front with his battalion, he won the Military
Cross for bravery in tending wounded under fire.

James joined the Royal Engineers, Sound Ranging Section, and after much front-line work was
given charge of a Sound Ranging School to teach other officers this latest and most scientific
addition to the art of war.

Wordie went to France with the Royal Field Artillery and was badly wounded at Armentières.

Hussey was in France for eighteen months with the Royal Garrison Artillery, serving in every
big battle from Dixmude to Saint-Quentin.

Worsley, known to his intimates as Depth-Charge Bill, owing to his success with that particular
method of destroying German submarines, has the Distinguished Service Order and three submarines
to his credit.

Stenhouse, who commanded the 'Aurora' after Mackintosh landed, was with Worsley as his second
in command when one of the German submarines was rammed and sunk, and received the D.S.C. for
his share in the fight.  He was afterwards given command of a Mystery Ship, and fought several
actions with enemy submarines.

Clark served on a mine-sweeper.  Greenstreet was employed with the barges on the Tigris.  Rickenson
was commissioned as Engineer- Lieutenant, R.N.  Kerr returned to the Merchant Service as an
engineer.

Most of the crew of the 'Endurance' served on minesweepers.

Of the Ross Sea Party, Mackintosh, Hayward, and Spencer-Smith died for their country as surely
as any who gave up their lives on the fields of France and Flanders.  Hooke, the wireless operator,
now navigates an airship.

Nearly all of the crew of the 'Aurora' joined the New Zealand Field Forces and saw active service
in one or other of the many theatres of war.  Several have been wounded, but it has been impossible
to obtain details.

On my return, after the rescue of the survivors of the Ross Sea Party, I offered my services
to the Government, and was sent on a mission to South America.  When this was concluded I was
commissioned as Major and went to North Russia in charge of Arctic Equipment and Transport,
having with me Worsley, Stenhouse, Hussey, Macklin, and Brocklehurst, who was to have come
South with us, but who, as a regular officer, rejoined his unit on the outbreak of war.  He
has been wounded three times and was in the retreat from Mons.  Worsley was sent across to
the Archangel front, where he did excellent work, and the others served with me on the Murmansk
front.  The mobile columns there had exactly the same clothing, equipment, and sledging food
as we had on the Expedition.   No expense was spared to obtain the best of everything for them,
and as a result not a single case of avoidable frost-bite was reported.

Taking the Expedition as a unit, out of fifty-six men three died in the Antarctic, three were
killed in action, and five have been wounded, so that our casualties have been fairly high.

Though some have gone there are enough left to rally round and form a nucleus for the next
Expedition, when troublous times are over and scientific exploration can once more be legitimately
undertaken.

APPENDIX I

SCIENTIFIC WORK By J. M. WORDIE, M.A. (Cantab.), Lieut. R.F.A.

The research undertaken by the Expedition was originally planned for a shore party working
from a fixed base on land, but it was only in South Georgia that this condition of affairs
was fully realized.  On this island, where a full month was spent, the geologist made very
extensive collections, and began the mapping of the country; the magnetician had some of his
instruments in working order for a short while; and the meteorologist was able to co-operate
with the Argentine observer stationed at Grytviken. It had been realized how important the
meteorological observations were going to be to the Argentine Government, and they accordingly
did all in their power to help, both before and at the end of the Expedition.  The biologist
devoted most of his time, meanwhile, to the whaling industry, there being no less than seven
stations on the island; he also made collections of the neritic fauna, and, accompanied by
the photographer, studied the bird life and the habits of the sea-elephants along the east coast.

By the time the actual southern voyage commenced, each individual had his own particular line
of work which he was prepared to follow out. The biologist at first confined himself to collecting
the plankton, and a start was made in securing water samples for temperature and salinity.
In this, from the beginning, he had the help of the geologist, who also gave instructions for
the taking of a line of soundings under the charge of the ship's officers.  This period of
the southward voyage was a very busy time so far as the scientists were concerned, for, besides
their own particular work, they took the full share of looking after the dogs and working the
ship watch by watch. At the same time, moreover, the biologist had to try and avoid being too
lavish with his preserving material at the expense of the shore station collections which were
yet to make.

When it was finally known that the ship had no longer any chance of getting free of the ice
in the 1914-1915 season, a radical change was made in the arrangements.  The scientists were
freed, as far as possible, from ship's duties, and were thus able to devote themselves almost
entirely to their own particular spheres. The meteorological investigations took on a more
definite shape; the instruments intended for the land base were set up on board ship, including
self-recording barographs, thermometers, and a Dines anemometer, with which very satisfactory
results were got. The physicist set up his quadrant electrometer after a good deal of trouble,
but throughout the winter had to struggle constantly with rime forming on the parts of his
apparatus exposed to the outer air.  Good runs were being thus continually spoilt.  The determination
of the magnetic constants also took up a good part of his time.

Besides collecting plankton the biologist was now able to put down one or other of his dredges
at more frequent intervals, always taking care, however, not to exhaust his store of preserving
material, which was limited.  The taking of water samples was established on a better system,
so that the series should be about equally spaced out over the ship's course.  The geologist
suppressed all thought of rocks, though occasionally they were met with in bottom samples;
his work became almost entirely oceanographical, and included a study of the sea-ice, of the
physiography of the sea floor as shown by daily soundings, and of the bottom deposits; besides
this he helped the biologist in the temperature and salinity observations.

The work undertaken and accomplished by each member was as wide as possible; but it was only
in keeping with the spirit of the times that more attention should be paid to work from which
practical and economic results were likely to accrue.  The meteorologist had always in view
the effect of Antarctic climate on the other southern continents, the geologist looked on ice
from a seaman's point of view, and the biologist not unwillingly put whales in the forefront
of his programme. The accounts which follow on these very practical points show how closely
scientific work in the Antarctica is in touch with, and helps on the economic development of,
the inhabited lands to the north.

SEA-ICE NOMENCLATURE By J. M. WORDIE, M.A. (Cantab.), Lieut. R.F.A.

During the voyage of the 'Endurance' it was soon noticed that the terms being used to describe
different forms of ice were not always in agreement with those given in Markham's and Mill's
glossary in "The Antarctic Manual," 1901.  It was the custom, of course, to follow implicitly
the terminology used by those of the party whose experience of ice dated back to Captain Scott's
first voyage, so that the terms used may be said to be common to all Antarctic voyages of the
present century.  The principal changes, therefore, in nomenclature must date from the last
quarter of the nineteenth century, when there was no one to pass on the traditional usage from
the last naval Arctic Expedition in 1875 to the Discovery Expedition of 1901.  On the latter
ship Markham's and Mill's glossary was, of course, used, but apparently not slavishly; founded,
as far as sea-ice went, on Scoresby's, made in 1820, it might well have been adopted in its
entirety, for no writer could have carried more weight than Scoresby the younger, combining
as he did more than ten years' whaling experience with high scientific attainments.  Above
all others he could be accepted both by practical seamen and also by students of ice forms.

That the old terms of Scoresby did not all survive the period of indifference to Polar work,
in spite of Markham and Mill, is an indication either that their usefulness has ceased or that
the original usage has changed once and for all.  A restatement of terms is therefore now necessary.
Where possible the actual phrases of Scoresby and  of his successors, Markham and Mill, are
still used. The principle adopted, however, is to give preference to the words actually used
by the Polar seamen themselves.

The following authorities have been followed as closely as possible:

W. Scoresby, Jun., "An Account of the Arctic Regions," 1820, vol. i, pp. 225-233, 238-241.

C. R. Markham and H. R. Mill in "The Antarctic Manual," 1901, pp. xiv-xvi.

J. Payer, "New Lands within the Arctic Circle," 1876, vol. i, pp. 3-14.

W. S. Bruce, "Polar Exploration" in Home University Library, c. 1911, pp. 54-71.

Reference should also be made to the annual publication of the Danish Meteorological Institute
showing the Arctic ice conditions of the previous summer.  This is published in both Danish
and English, so that the terms used there are bound to have a very wide acceptance; it is hoped,
therefore, that they may be the means of preventing the Antarctic terminology following a different
line of evolution; for but seldom is a seaman found nowadays who knows both Polar regions.
On the Danish charts six different kinds of sea-ice are marked--namely, unbroken polar ice;
land-floe; great ice-fields; tight pack-ice; open ice; bay-ice and brash.  With the exception
of bay-ice, which is more generally known as young ice, all these terms pass current in the
Antarctic.

"Slush" or "Sludge".  The initial stages in the freezing of sea-water, when its consistency
becomes gluey or soupy. The term is also used (but not commonly) for brash-ice still further
broken down.

"Pancake-ice".  Small circular floes with raised rims; due to the break- up in a gently ruffled
sea of the newly formed ice into pieces which strike against each other, and so form turned-up
edges.

"Young Ice".  Applied to all unhummocked ice up to about a foot in thickness.  Owing to the
fibrous or platy structure, the floes crack easily, and where the ice is not over thick a ship
under steam cuts a passage without much difficulty.  Young ice may originate from the coalescence
of "pancakes," where the water is slightly ruffled or else be a sheet of "black ice," covered
maybe with "ice-flowers," formed by the freezing of a smooth sheet of sea-water.

In the Arctic it has been the custom to call this form of ice "bay- ice"; in the Antarctic,
however, the latter term is wrongly used for land-floes (fast-ice, etc.), and has been so misapplied
consistently for fifteen years.  The term bay-ice should possibly, therefore, be dropped altogether,
especially since, even in the Arctic, its meaning is not altogether a rigid one, as it may
denote firstly the gluey "slush," which forms when sea-water freezes, and secondly the firm
level sheet ultimately produced.

"Land floes".  Heavy but not necessarily hummocked ice, with generally a deep snow covering,
which has remained held up in the position of growth by the enclosing nature of some feature
of the coast, or by grounded bergs throughout the summer season when most of the ice breaks
out.  Its thickness is, therefore, above the average.  Has been called at various times "fast-ice,"
"coast-ice," "land-ice," "bay-ice" by Shackleton and David and the Charcot Expedition; and
possibly what Drygalski calls "Schelfeis" is not very different.

"Floe".  An area of ice, level or hummocked, whose limits are within sight.  Includes all sizes
between brash on the one hand and fields on the other.  "Light-floes" are between one and two
feet in thickness (anything thinner being "young-ice").  Those exceeding two feet in thickness
are termed "heavy floes," being generally hummocked, and in the Antarctic, at any rate, covered
by fairly deep snow.

"Field".  A sheet of ice of such extent that its limits cannot be seen from the masthead.

"Hummocking".   Includes all the processes of pressure formation whereby level young ice becomes
broken up and built up into

"Hummocky Floes".  The most suitable term for what has also been called "old pack" and "screwed
pack" by David and "Scholleneis" by German writers.  In contrast to young ice, the structure
is no longer fibrous, but becomes spotted or bubbly, a certain percentage of salt drains away,
and the ice becomes almost translucent.

The Pack is a term very often used in a wide sense to include any area of sea-ice, no matter
what form it takes or how disposed. The French term is "banquise de derive".

"Pack-ice".  A more restricted use than the above, to include hummocky floes or close areas
of young ice and light floes. Pack-ice is "close" or "tight" if the floes constituting it are
in contact; "open" if, for the most part, they do not touch. In both cases it hinders, but
does not necessarily check, navigation; the contrary holds for

"Drift-ice".  Loose open ice, where the area of water exceeds that of ice.  Generally drift-ice
is within reach of the swell, and is a stage in the breaking down of pack-ice, the size of
the floes being much smaller than in the latter.  (Scoresby's use of the term drift-ice for
pieces of ice intermediate in size between floes and brash has, however, quite died out). 
The Antarctic or Arctic pack usually has a girdle or fringe of drift-ice.

"Brash".  Small fragments and roundish nodules; the wreck of other kinds of ice.

"Bergy Bits".  Pieces, about the size of a cottage, of glacier-ice or of hummocky pack washed
clear of snow.

"Growlers".  Still smaller pieces of sea-ice than the above, greenish in colour, and barely
showing above water-level.

"Crack".  Any sort of fracture or rift in the sea-ice covering.

"Lead" or "Lane".  Where a crack opens out to such a width as to be navigable.  In the Antarctic
it is customary to speak of these as leads, even when frozen over to constitute areas of young ice.

"Pools".  Any enclosed water areas in the pack, where length and breadth are about equal.

METEOROLOGY By L. D. A. HUSSEY, B.Sc., (Lond.), Capt. R.G.A.

The meteorological results of the Expedition, when properly worked out and correlated with
those from other stations in the southern hemisphere, will be extremely valuable, both for
their bearing on the science of meteorology in general, and for their practical and economic
applications.

South America is, perhaps, more intimately concerned than any other country, but Australia,
New Zealand, and South Africa are all affected by the weather conditions of the Antarctic.
Researches are now being carried on which tend to show that the meteorology of the two hemispheres
is more interdependent than was hitherto believed, so that a meteorological disturbance in
one part of the world makes its presence felt, more or less remotely perhaps, all over the world.

It is evident, therefore, that a complete knowledge of the weather conditions in any part of
the world, which it is understood carries with it the ability to make correct forecasts, can
never be obtained unless the weather conditions in every other part are known.  This makes
the need for purely scientific Polar Expeditions so imperative, since our present knowledge
of Arctic and Antarctic meteorology is very meagre, and to a certain extent unsystematic. 
What is wanted is a chain of observing stations well equipped with instruments and trained
observers stretching across the Antarctic Continent.  A series of exploring ships could supplement
these observations with others made by them while cruising in the Antarctic Seas.  It would
pay to do this, even for the benefit accruing to farmers, sailors, and others who are so dependent
on the weather.

