The second step in this process of presentative construction is the recognition of an object
as one of a class of things, for example, oranges, having certain special qualities, as a particular
taste. In this step the connections of experience are less deeply organized, and so we are
able to some extent, by reflection, to recognize it as a kind of intellectual working up of
the materials supplied us by the past. It is to be noted that this process of recognition involves
a compound operation of classifying impressions as distinguished from that simple operation
by which a single impression, such as a particular colour, is known. Thus the recognition of
such an object as an orange takes place by a rapid classing of a multitude of passive sensations
of colour, light, and shade, and those active or muscular sensations which are supposed to
enter into the visual perception of form.

A still less automatic step in the process of visual recognition is that of identifying individual
objects, as Westminster Abbey, or a friend, John Smith. The amount of experience that is here
reproduced may be very large, as in the case of recognizing a person with whom we have had
a long and intimate acquaintance.

If the recognition of an object as one of a class, for example, an orange, involves a compound
process of classing impressions, that of an individual object involves a still more complicated
process. The identification of a friend, simple as this operation may at first appear, really
takes place by a rapid classing of all the salient characteristic features which serve as the
visible marks of that particular person.

It is to be noted that each kind of recognition, specific and individual, takes place by a
consciousness of likeness amid unlikeness. It is obvious that a new individual object has characters
not shared in by other objects previously inspected. Thus, we at once class a man with a dark-brown
skin, wearing a particular garb, as a Hindoo, though he may differ in a host of particulars
from the other Hindoos that we have observed. In thus instantly recognizing him as a Hindoo,
we must, it is plain, attend to the points of similarity, and overlook for the instant the
points of dissimilarity. In the case of individual identification, the same thing happens.
Strictly speaking, no object ever appears exactly the same to us on two occasions. Apart from
changes in the object itself, especially in the case of living beings, there are varying effects
of illumination, of position in relation to the eye, of distance, and so on, which very distinctly
affect the visual impression at different times. Yet the fact of our instantly recognizing
a familiar object in spite of these fluctuations of appearance, proves that we are able to
overlook a very considerable amount of diversity when a certain amount of likeness is present.

It is further to be observed that in these last stages of perception we approach the boundary
line between perception and inference. To recognize an object as one of a class is often a
matter of conscious reflection and judgment, even when the class is constituted by obvious
material qualities which the senses may be supposed to apprehend immediately. Still more clearly
does perception pass into inference when the class is constituted by less obvious qualities,
which require a careful and prolonged process of recollection, discrimination, and comparison,
for their recognition. Thus, to recognize a man by certain marks of gesture and manner as a
military man or a Frenchman, though popularly called a perception, is much more of an unfolded
process of conscious inference. And what applies to specific recognition applies still more
forcibly to individual recognition, which is often a matter of very delicate conscious comparison
and judgment. To say where the line should be drawn here between perception and observation
on the one hand, and inference on the other, is clearly impossible. Our whole study of the
illusions of perception will serve to show that the one shades off into the other too gradually
to allow of our drawing a hard and fast line between them.

Finally, it is to be noted that these last stages of perception bring us near the boundary
line which separates objective experience as common and universal, and subjective or variable
experience as confined to one or to a few. In the bringing of the object under a certain class
of objects there is clearly room for greater variety of individual perception. For example,
the ability to recognize a man as a Frenchman turns on a special kind of previous experience.
And this transition from the common or universal to the individual experience is seen yet more
plainly in the case of individual recognition. To identify an object, say a particular person,
commonly presupposes some previous experience or knowledge of this object, and the existence
in the past of some special relation of the recognizer to the recognized, if only that of an
observer. In fact, it is evident that in this mode of recognition we have the transition from
common perception to individual recollection.[8]

While we may thus distinguish different steps in the process of visual recognition, we may
make a further distinction, marking off a passive and an active stage in the process. The one
may be called the stage of preperception, the other that of perception proper.[9] In the first
the mind holds itself in a passive attitude, except in so far as the energies of external attention
are involved. The impression here awakens the mental images which answer to past experiences
according to the well-known laws of association. The interpretative image which is to transform
the impression into a percept is now being formed by a mere process of suggestion.

When the image is thus formed, the mind may be said to enter upon a more active stage, in which
it now views the impression through the image, or applies this as a kind of mould or framework
to the impression. This appears to involve an intensification of the mental image, transforming
it from a representative to a presentative mental state, making it approximate somewhat to
the full intensity of the sensation. In many of our instantaneous perceptions these two stages
are indistinguishable to consciousness. Thus, in most cases, the recognition of size, distance,
etc., takes place so rapidly that it is impossible to detect the two phases here separated.
But in the classification of an object, or the identification of an individual thing, there
is often an appreciable interval between the first reception of the impression and the final
stage of complete recognition. And here it is easy to distinguish the two stages of preperception
and perception. The interpretative image is slowly built up by the operation of suggestion,
at the close of which the impression is suddenly illumined as by a flash of light, and takes
a definite, precise shape.

Now, it is to be noted that the process of preperception will be greatly aided by any circumstance
that facilitates the construction of the particular interpretative image required. Thus, the
more frequently a similar process of perception has been performed in the past, the more ready
will the mind be to fall into the particular way of interpreting the impression. As G.H. Lewes
well remarks, "The artist sees details where to other eyes there is a vague or confused mass;
the naturalist sees an animal where the ordinary eye only sees a form." This is but one illustration
of the seemingly universal mental law, that what is repeatedly done will be done more and more
easily.

The process of preperception may be shortened, not only by means of a permanent disposition
to frame the required interpretative scheme, the residuum of past like processes, but also
by means of any temporary disposition pointing in the same direction. If, for example, the
mind of a naturalist has just been occupied about a certain class of bird, that is to say,
if he has been dwelling on the mental image of this bird, he will recognize one at a distance
more quickly than he would otherwise have done. Such a simple mental operation as the recognition
of one of the less common flowers, say a particular orchid, will vary in duration according
as we have or have not been recently forming an image of this flower. The obvious explanation
of this is that the mental image of an object bears a very close resemblance to the corresponding
percept, differing from it, indeed, in degree only, that is to say, through the fact that it
involves no actual sensation. Here again we see illustrated a general psychological law, namely,
that what the mind has recently done, it tends (within certain limits) to go on doing.

It is to be noticed, further, that the perception of a single object or event is rarely an
isolated act of the mind. We recognize and understand the things that surround us through their
relations one to another. Sometimes the adjacent circumstances and events suggest a definite
expectation of the new impression. Thus, for example, the sound of a gun heard during a walk
in the country is instantly interpreted by help of suggestions due to the previous appearance
of the sportsman, and the act of raising the gun to his shoulder. It may be added that the
verbal suggestions of others act very much like the suggestions of external circumstances.
If I am told that a gun is going to be fired, my mind is prepared for it just as though I saw
the sportsman.[10]

More frequently the effect of such surrounding circumstances is to give an air of familiarity
to the new impression, to shorten the interval in which the required interpretative image is
forthcoming. Thus, when travelling in Italy, the visual impression answering to a ruined temple
or a bareheaded friar is construed much more rapidly than it would be elsewhere, because of
the attitude of mind due to the surrounding circumstances. In all such cases the process of
preperception connected with a given impression is effected more or less completely by the
suggestions of other and related impressions.

It follows from all that has been just said that our minds are never in exactly the same state
of readiness with respect to a particular process of perceptional interpretation. Sometimes
the meaning of an impression flashes on us at once, and the stage of preperception becomes
evanescent. At other times the same impression will fail for an appreciable interval to divulge
its meaning. These differences are, no doubt, due in part to variations in the state of attention
at the moment; but they depend as well on fluctuations in the degree of the mind's readiness
to look at the impression in the required way.

In order to complete this slight analysis of perception, we must look for a moment at its physical
side, that is to say, at the nervous actions which are known or supposed with some degree of
probability to accompany it.

The production of the sensation is known to depend on a certain external process, namely, the
action of some stimulus, as light, on the sense-organ, which stimulus has its point of departure
in the object, such as it is conceived by physical science. The sensation arises when the nervous
process is transmitted through the nerves to the conscious centre, often spoken of as the sensorium,
the exact seat of which is still a matter of some debate.

The intensification of the sensation by the reaction of attention is supposed to depend on
some reinforcement of the nervous excitation in the sensory centre proceeding from the motor
regions, which are hypothetically regarded as the centre of attention.[11] The classification
of the impression, again, is pretty certainly correlated with the physical fact that the central
excitation calls into activity elements which have already been excited in the same way.

The nervous counterpart of the final stage of perception, the synthesis of the sensation and
the mental representation, is not clearly ascertained. A sensation clearly resembles a mental
image in quality. It is most obviously marked off from the image by its greater vividness or
intensity. Agreeably to this view, it is now held by a number of eminent physiologists and
psychologists that the nervous process underlying a sensation occupies the same central region
as that which underlies the corresponding image. According to this theory, the two processes
differ in their degree of energy only, this difference being connected with the fact that the
former involves, while the latter does not involve, the peripheral region of the nervous system.
Accepting this view as on the whole well founded, I shall speak of an ideational, or rather
an imaginational; and a sensational nervous process, and not of an ideational and a sensational
centre.[12]

The special force that belongs to the representative element in a percept, as compared with
that of a pure "perceptional" image,[13] is probably connected with the fact that, in the case
of actual perception, the nervous process underlying the act of imaginative construction is
organically united to the initial sensational process, of which indeed it may be regarded as
a continuation.

For the physical counterpart of the two stages in the interpretative part of perception, distinguished
as the passive stage of preperception, and the active stage of perception proper, we may, in
the absence of certain knowledge, fall back on the hypothesis put forward by Dr. J. Hughlings
Jackson, in the articles in Brain already referred to, namely, that the former answers to an
action of the right hemisphere of the brain, the latter to a subsequent action of the left
hemisphere. The expediting of the process of preperception in those cases where it has frequently
been performed before, is clearly an illustration of the organic law that every function is
improved by exercise. And the temporary disposition to perform the process due to recent imaginative
activity, is explained at once on the physical side by the supposition that an actual perception
and a perceptional image involve the activity of the same nervous tracts. For, assuming this
to be the case, it follows, from a well-known organic law, that a recent excitation would leave
a temporary disposition in these particular structures to resume that particular mode of activity.

What has here been said about visual perception will apply, mutatis mutandis, to other kinds.
Although the eye is the organ of perception par excellence, our other senses are also avenues
by which we intuit and recognize objects. Thus touch, especially when it is finely developed
as it is in the blind, gives an immediate knowledge of objects--a more immediate knowledge,
indeed, of their fundamental properties than sight. What makes the eye so vastly superior to
the organ of touch as an instrument of perception, is first of all the range of its action,
taking in simultaneously a large number of impressions from objects at a distance as well as
near; and secondly, though this may seem paradoxical, the fact that it gives us so much indirectly,
that is, by way of association and suggestion. This is the interesting side of visual perception,
that, owing to the vast complex of distinguishable sensations of light and colour of various
qualities and intensities, together with the muscular sensations attending the varying positions
of the organ, the eye is able to recognize at any instant a whole external world with its fundamental
properties and relations. The ear comes next to the eye in this respect, but only after a long
interval, since its sensations (even in the case of musical combinations) do not simultaneously
order themselves in an indefinitely large group of distinguishable elements, and since even
the comparatively few sensations which it is capable of simultaneously receiving, being altogether
passive--that is to say, having no muscular accompaniments--impart but little and vague information
respecting the external order. It is plain, then, that in the study of illusion, where the
indirectly known elements are the thing to be considered, the eye, and after this the ear,
will mostly engage our attention.[14]

So much it seemed needful to say about the mechanism of perception, in order to understand
the slight disturbances of this mechanism that manifest themselves in sense-illusion. It may
be added that our study of these illusions will help still further to elucidate the exact nature
of perception. Normal mental life, as a whole, at once illustrates, and is illustrated by,
abnormal. And while we need a rough provisional theory of accurate perception in order to explain
illusory perception at all, the investigation of this latter cannot fail to verify and even
render more complete the theory which it thus temporarily adopts.

Illusions of Perception.

With this brief psychological analysis of perception to help us, let us now pass to the consideration
of the errors incident to the process, with a view to classify them according to their psychological
nature and origin.

And here there naturally arises the question, How shall we define an illusion of perception?
When trying to fix the definition of illusion in general, I practically disposed of this question.
Nevertheless, as the point appears to me to be of some importance, I shall reproduce and expand
one or two of the considerations then brought forward.

It is said by certain, philosophers that perception, as a whole, is an illusion, inasmuch as
it involves the fiction of a real thing independent of mind, yet somehow present to it in the
act of sense-perception. But this is a question for philosophy, not for science. Science, including
psychology, assumes that in perception there is something real, without inquiring what it may
consist of, or what its meaning may be. And though in the foregoing analysis of perception,
viewed as a complex mental phenomenon or psychical process, I have argued that a percept gets
its concrete filling up out of elements of conscious experience or sensations, I have been
careful not to contend that the particular elements of feeling thus represented are the object
of perception or the thing perceived. It may be that what we mean by a single object with its
assemblage of qualities is much more than any number of such sensations; and it must be confessed
that, on the face of it, it seems to be much more. And however this be, the question, What
is meant by object; and is the common persuasion of the existence of such an entity in the
act of perception accurate or illusory? must be handed over to philosophy.

While in the following examination of sense-illusions we put out of sight what certain philosophers
say about the illusoriness of perception as a whole, we shall also do well to leave out of
account what physical science is sometimes supposed to tell us respecting a constant element
of illusion in perception. The physicist, by reducing all external changes to "modes of motion,"
appears to leave no room in his world-mechanism for the secondary qualities of bodies, such
as light and heat, as popularly conceived. Yet, while allowing this, I think we may still regard
the attribution of qualities like colour to objects as in the main correct and answering to
a real fact. When a person says an object is red, he is understood by everybody as affirming
something which is true or false, something therefore which either involves an external fact
or is illusory. It would involve an external fact whenever the particular sensation which he
receives is the result of a physical action (other vibrations of a certain order), which would
produce a like sensation in anybody else in the same situation and endowed with the normal
retinal sensibility. On the other hand, an illusory attribution of colour would imply that
there is no corresponding physical agency at work in the case, but that the sensation is connected
with exceptional individual conditions, as, for example, altered retinal sensibility.

We are now, perhaps, in a position to frame a rough definition of an illusion of perception
as popularly understood. A large number of such phenomena may be described as consisting in
the formation of percepts or quasi-percepts in the minds of individuals under external circumstances
which would not give rise to similar percepts in the case of other people.

A little consideration, however, will show that this is not an adequate definition of what
is ordinarily understood by an illusion of sense. There are special circumstances which are
fitted to excite a momentary illusion in all minds. The optical illusions due to the reflection
and refraction of light are not peculiar to the individual, but arise in all minds under precisely
similar external conditions.

It is plain that the illusoriness of a perception is in these cases determined in relation
to the sense-impressions of other moments and situations, or to what are presumably better
percepts than the present one. Sometimes this involves an appeal from one sense to another.
Thus, there is the process of verification of sight by touch, for example, in the case of optical
images, a mode of perception which, as we have seen, gives a more direct cognition of external
quality. Conversely, there may occasionally be a reference from touch to sight, when it is
a question of discriminating two points lying very close to one another. Finally, the same
sense may correct itself, as when the illusion of the stereoscope is corrected by afterwards
looking at the two separate pictures.

We may thus roughly define an illusion of perception as consisting in the formation of a quasi-percept
which is peculiar to an individual, or which is contradicted by another and presumably more
accurate percept. Or, if we take the meaning of the word common to include both the universal
as contrasted with the individual experience, and the permanent, constant, or average, as distinguished
from the momentary and variable percept, we may still briefly describe an illusion of perception
as a deviation from the common or collective experience.

Sources of Sense-Illusion.

Understanding sense-illusion in this way, let us glance back at the process of perception in
its several stages or aspects, with the object of discovering what room occurs for illusion.

It appears at first as if the preliminary stages--the reception, discrimination, and classification
of an impression--would not offer the slightest opening for error. This part of the mechanism
of perception seems to work so regularly and so smoothly that one can hardly conceive a fault
in the process. Nevertheless, a little consideration will show that even here all does not
go on with unerring precision.

Let us suppose that the very first step is wanting--distinct attention to an impression. It
is easy to see that this will favour illusion by leading to a confusion of the impression.
Thus the timid man will more readily fall into the illusion of ghost-seeing than a cool-headed
observant man, because he is less attentive to the actual impression of the moment. This inattention
to the sense-impression will be found to be a great co-operating factor in the production of
illusions.

But if the sensation is properly attended to, can there be error through a misapprehension
of what is actually in the mind at the moment? To say that there can may sound paradoxical,
and yet in a sense this is demonstrable. I do not mean that there is an observant mind behind
and distinct from the sensation, and failing to observe it accurately through a kind of mental
short-sightedness. What I mean is that the usual psychical effect of the incoming nervous process
may to some extent be counteracted by a powerful reaction of the centres. In the course of
our study of illusions, we shall learn that it is possible for the quality of an impression,
as, for example, of a sensation of colour, to be appreciably modified when there is a strong
tendency to regard it in one particular way.

Postponing the consideration of these, we may say that certain illusions appear clearly to
take their start from an error in the process of classifying or identifying a present impression.
On the physical side, we may say that the first stages of the nervous process, the due excitation
of the sensory centre in accordance with the form of the incoming stimulation and the central
reaction involved in the recognition of the sensation, are incomplete. These are so limited
and comparatively unimportant a class, that it will be well to dispose of them at once.

Confusion of the Sense-Impression.

The most interesting case of such an error is where the impression is unfamiliar and novel
in character. I have already remarked that in the mental life of the adult perfectly new sensations
never occur. At the same time, comparatively novel impressions sometimes arise. Parts of the
sensitive surface of the body which rarely undergo stimulation are sometimes acted on, and
at other times they receive partially new modes of stimulation. In such cases it is plain that
the process of classing the sensation or recognizing it is not completed. It is found that
whenever this happens there is a tendency to exaggerate the intensity of the sensation. The
very fact of unfamiliarity seems to give to the sensation a certain exciting character. As
something new and strange, it for the instant slightly agitates and discomposes the mind. Being
unable to classify it with its like, we naturally magnify its intensity, and so tend to ascribe
it to a disproportionately large cause.

For instance, a light bandage worn about the body at a part usually free from pressure is liable
to be conceived as a weighty mass. The odd sense of a big cavity in the mouth, which we experience
just after the loss of a tooth, is probably another illustration of this principle. And a third
example may also be supplied from the recollection of the dentist's patient, namely, the absurd
imagination which he tends to form as to what is actually going on in his mouth when a tooth
is being bored by a modern rotating drill. It may be found that the same principle helps to
account for the exaggerated importance which we attach to the impressions of our dreams.

It is evident that all indistinct impressions are liable to be wrongly classed. Sensations
answering to a given colour or form, are, when faint, easily confused with other sensations,
and so an opening occurs for illusion. Thus, the impressions received from distant objects
are frequently misinterpreted, and, as we shall see by-and-by, it is in this region of hazy
impression that imagination is wont to play its most startling pranks.

It is to be observed that the illusions arising from wrong classification will be more frequent
in the case of those senses where discrimination is low. Thus, it is much easier in a general
way to confuse two sensations of smell than two sensations of colour. Hence the great source
of such errors is to be found in that mass of obscure sensation which is connected with the
organic processes, as digestion, respiration, etc., together with those varying tactual and
motor feelings, which result from what is called the subjective stimulation of the tactual
nerves, and from changes in the position and condition of the muscles. Lying commonly in what
is known as the sub-conscious region of mind, undiscriminated, vague, and ill-defined, these
sensations, when they come to be specially attended to, readily get misapprehended, and so
lead to illusion, both in waking life and in sleep. I shall have occasion to illustrate this
later on.

With these sensations, the result of stimulations coming from remote parts of the organism,
may be classed the ocular impressions which we receive in indirect vision. When the eye is
not fixed on an object, the impression, involving the activity of some-peripheral region of
the retina, is comparatively indistinct. This will be much more the case when the object lies
at a distance for which the eye is not at the time accommodated. And in these circumstances,
when we happen to turn our attention to the impression, we easily misapprehend it, and so fall
into illusion. Thus, it has been remarked by Sir David Brewster, in his Letters on Natural
Magic (letter vii.), that when looking through a window at some object beyond, we easily suppose
a fly on the window-pane to be a larger object, as a bird, at a greater distance.[15]

While these cases of a confusion or a wrong classification of the sensation are pretty well
made out, there are other illusions or quasi-illusions respecting which it is doubtful whether
they should be brought under this head. For example, it was found by Weber, that when the legs
of a pair of compasses are at a certain small distance apart they will be felt as two by some
parts of the tactual surface of the body, but only as one by other parts. How are we to regard
this discrepancy? Must we say that in the latter case there are two sensations, only that,
being so similar, they are confused one with another? There seems some reason for so doing,
in the fact that, by a repeated exercise of attention to the experiment, they may afterwards
be recognized as two.

We here come on the puzzling question, How much in the character of the sensation must be regarded
as the necessary result of the particular mode of nervous stimulation at the moment, together
with the laws of sensibility, and how much must be put down to the reaction of the mind in
the shape of attention and discrimination? For our present purpose we may say that, whenever
a deliberate effort of attention does not suffice to alter the character of a sensation, this
may be pretty safely regarded as a net result of the nervous process, and any error arising
may be referred to the later stages of the process of perception. Thus, for example, the taking
of the two points of a pair of compasses for one, where the closest attention does not discover
the error, is best regarded as arising, not from a confusion of the sense-impression, but from
a wrong interpretation of a sensation, occasioned by an overlooking of the limits of local
discriminative sensibility.

Misinterpretation of the Sense-Impression.

Enough has been said, perhaps, about those errors of perception which have their root in the
initial process of sensation. We may now pass to the far more important class of illusions
which are related to the later stages of perception, that is to say, the process of interpreting
the sense-impression. Speaking generally, one may describe an illusion of perception as a misinterpretation.
The wrong kind of interpretative mental image gets combined with the impression, or, if with
Helmholtz we regard perception as a process of "unconscious inference," we may say that these
illusions involve an unconscious fallacious conclusion. Or, looking at the physical side of
the operation, it may be said that the central course taken by the nervous process does not
correspond to the external relations of the moment.

As soon as we inspect these illusions of interpretation, we see that they fall into two divisions,
according as they are connected with the process of suggestion, that is to say, the formation
of the interpretative image so far as determined by links of association with the actual impression,
or with an independent process of preperception as explained above. Thus, for example, we fall
into the illusion of hearing two voices when our shout is echoed back, just because the second
auditory impression irresistibly calls up the image of a second shouter. On the other hand,
a man experiences the illusion of seeing spectres of familiar objects just after exciting his
imagination over a ghost-story, because the mind is strongly predisposed to frame this kind
of percept. The first class of illusions arises from without, the sense-impression being the
starting-point, and the process of preperception being controlled by this. The second class
arises rather from within, from an independent or spontaneous activity of the imagination.
In the one case the mind is comparatively passive; in the other it is active, energetically
reacting on the impression, and impatiently anticipating the result of the normal process of
preperception. Hence I shall, for brevity's sake, commonly speak of them as Passive and Active
Illusions.[16]

I may, perhaps, illustrate these two classes of illusion by the simile of an interpreter poring
over an old manuscript. The first would be due to some peculiarity in the document misleading
his judgment, the second to some caprice or preconceived notion in the interpreter's mind.

It is not difficult to define conjecturally the physiological conditions of these two large
classes of illusion. On the physical side, an illusion of sense, like a just perception, is
the result of a fusion of the nervous process answering to a sensation with a nervous process
answering to a mental image. In the case of passive illusions, this fusion may be said to take
place in consequence of some point of connection between the two. The existence of such a connection
appears to be involved in the very fact of suggestion, and may be said to be the organic result
of frequent conjunctions of the two parts of the nervous operation in our past history. In
the case of active illusions, however, which spring rather from the independent energy of a
particular mode of the imagination, this point of organic connection is not the only or even
the main thing. In many cases, as we shall see, there is only a faint shade of resemblance
between the present impression and the mental image with which it is overlaid. The illusions
dependent on vivid, expectation thus answer much less to an objective conjunction of past experiences
than to a capricious subjective conjunction of mental images. Here, then, the fusion of nervous
processes must have another cause. And it is not difficult to assign such a cause. The antecedent
activity of imagination doubtless involves as its organic result a powerful temporary disposition
in the nervous structures concerned to go on acting. In other words, they remain in a state
of sub-excitation, which can be raised to full excitation by a slight additional force. The
more powerful this disposition in the centres involved in the act of imagination, the less
the additional force of external stimulus required to excite them to full activity.

Considering the first division, passive illusions, a little further, we shall see that they
may be broken up into two sub-classes, according to the causes of the errors. In a general
way we assume that the impression always answers to some quality of the object which is perceived,
and varies with this; that, for example, our sensation of colour invariably represents the
quality of external colour which we attribute to the object. Or, to express it physically,
we assume that the external force acting on the sense-organ invariably produces the same effect,
and that the effect always varies with the external cause. But this assumption, though true
in the main, is not perfectly correct. It supposes that the organic conditions are constant,
and that the organic process faithfully reflects the external operation. Neither of these suppositions
is strictly true. Although in general we may abstract from the organism and view the relation
between the external fact and the mental impression as direct, we cannot always do so.

This being so, it is possible for errors of perception to arise through peculiarities of the
nervous organization itself. Thus, as I have just observed, sensibility has its limits, and
these limits are the starting-point in a certain class of widely shared or common illusions.
An example of this variety is the taking of the two points of a pair of compasses for one by
the hand, already referred to. Again, the condition of the nervous structures varies indefinitely,
so that one and the same stimulus may, in the case of two individuals, or of the same individual
at different times, produce widely unlike modes of sensation. Such variations are clearly fitted
to lead to gross individual errors as to the external cause of the sensation. Of this sort
is the illusory sense of temperature which we often experience through a special state of the
organ employed.

While there are these errors of interpretation due to some peculiarity of the organization,
there are others which involve no such peculiarity, but arise through the special character
or exceptional conformation of the environment at the moment. Of this order are the illusions
connected with the reflection of light and sound. We may, perhaps, distinguish the first sub-class
as organically conditioned illusions, and the second as extra-organically determined illusions.
It may be added that the latter are roughly describable as common illusions. They thus answer
in a measure to the first variety of organically conditioned illusions, namely, those connected
with the limits of sensibility. On the other hand, the active illusions, being essentially
individual or subjective, may be said to correspond to the other variety of this class--those
connected with variations of sensibility.

Our scheme of sense-illusions is now complete. First of all, we shall take up the passive illusions,
beginning with those which are conditioned by special circumstances in the organism. After
that we shall illustrate those which depend on peculiar circumstances in the environment. And
finally, we shall separately consider what I have called the active illusions of sense.

It is to be observed that these illusions of perception properly so called, namely, the errors
arising from a wrong interpretation of an impression, and, not from a confusion of one impression
with another are chiefly illustrated in the region of the two higher senses, sight and hearing.
For it is here, as we have seen, that the interpretative imagination has most work to do in
evolving complete percepts of material, tangible objects, having certain relations in space,
out of a limited and homogeneous class of sensations, namely, those of light and colour, and
of sound. As I have before observed, tactual perception, in so far as it is the recognition
of an object of a certain size, hardness, and distance from our body, involves the least degree
of interpretation, and so offers little room for error; it is only when tactual perception
amounts to the recognition of an individual object, clothed with secondary as well as primary
qualities, that an opening for palpable error occurs.

With respect, however, to the first sub-class of these illusions, namely, those arising from
organic peculiarities which give a twist, so to speak, to the sensation, no very marked contrast
between the different senses presents itself. So that in illustrating this group we shall be
pretty equally concerned with the various modes of perception connected with the different senses.

It may be said once for all that in thus marking off from one another certain groups of illusion,
I am not unmindful of the fact that these divisions answer to no very sharp natural distinctions.
In fact, it will be found that one class gradually passes into the other, and that the different
characteristics here separated often combine in a most perplexing way. All that is claimed
for this classification is that it is a convenient mode of mapping out the subject.

In dealing with the illusions which are related to certain peculiarities in the nervous organism
and the laws of sensibility, I shall commence with those which are connected with certain limits
of sensibility.

Limits of Sensibility.

To begin with, it is known that the sensation does not always answer to the external stimulus
in its degree or intensity. Thus, a certain amount of stimulation is necessary before any sensation
arises. And this will, of course, be greater when there is little or no attention directed
to the impression, that is to say, no co-operating central reaction. Thus it happens that slight
stimuli go overlooked, and here illusion may have its starting-point. The most familiar example
of such slight errors is that of movement. When we are looking at objects, our ocular muscles
are apt to execute very slight movements which escape our notice. Hence we tend, under certain
circumstances, to carry over the retinal result of the movement, that is to say, the impression
produced by a shifting of the parts of the retinal image to new nervous elements, to the object
itself, and so to transform a "subjective" into an "objective" movement. In a very interesting
work on apparent or illusory movements, Professor Hoppe has fully investigated the facts of
such slight movements, and endeavoured to specify their causes.[17]

Again, even when the stimulus is sufficient to produce a conscious impression, the degree of
the feeling may not represent the degree of the stimulus. To take a very inconspicuous case,
it is found by Fechner that a given increase of force in the stimulus produces a less amount
of difference in the resulting sensations when the original stimulus is a powerful one than
when it is a feeble one. It follows from this, that differences in the degree of our sensations
do not exactly correspond to objective differences. For example, we tend to magnify the differences
of light among objects, all of which are feebly illuminated, that is to say, to see them much
more removed from one another in point of brightness than when they are more strongly illuminated.
Helmholtz relates that, owing to this tendency, he has occasionally caught himself, on a dark
night, entertaining the illusion that the comparatively bright objects visible in twilight
were self-luminous.[18]

Again, there are limits to the conscious separation of sensations which are received together,
and this fact gives rise to illusion. In general, the number of distinguishable sensations
answers to the number of external causes; but this is not always the case, and here we naturally
fall into the error of mistaking the number of the stimuli. Reference has already been made
to this fact in connection with the question whether consciousness can be mistaken as to the
character of a present feeling.

The case of confusing two impressions when the sensory fibres involved are very near one another,
has already been alluded to. Both in touch and in sight we always take two or more points for
one when they are only separated by an interval that falls below the limits of local discrimination.
It seems to follow from this that our perception of the world as a continuum, made up of points
perfectly continuous one with another may, for what we know, be illusory. Supposing the universe
to consist of atoms separated by very fine intervals, then it is demonstrable that it would
appear to our sensibility as a continuum, just as it does now.[19]

Two or more simultaneous sensations are indistinguishable from one another, not only when they
have nearly the same local origin, but under other circumstances. The blending of partial sensations
of tone in a klang-sensation, and the coalescence in certain cases of the impressions received
by way of the two retinas, are examples of this. It is not quite certain what determines this
fusion of two simultaneous feelings. It may be said generally that it is favoured by similarity
between the sensations;[20] by a comparative feebleness of one of the feelings; by the fact
of habitual concomitance, the two sensations occurring rarely, if ever, in isolation; and by
the presence of a mental disposition to view them as answering to one external object. These
considerations help us to explain the coalescence of the retinal impressions and its limits,
the fusion of partial tones, and so on.[21]

It is plain that this fusion of sensations, whatever its exact conditions may be, gives rise
to error or wrong interpretation of the sense-impression. Thus, to take the points of two legs
of a pair of compasses for one point is clearly an illusion of perception. Here is another
and less familiar example. Very cold and smooth surfaces, as those of metal, often appear to
be wet. I never feel sure, after wiping the blades of my skates, that they are perfectly dry,
since they always seem more or less damp to my hand. What is the reason of this? Helmholtz
explains the phenomenon by saying that the feeling we call by the name of wetness is a compound
sensation consisting of one of temperature and one of touch proper. These sensations occurring
together so frequently, blend into one, and so we infer, according to the general instinctive
tendency already noticed, that there is one specific quality answering to the feeling. And
since the feeling is nearly always produced by surfaces moistened by cold liquid, we refer
it to this circumstance, and speak of it as a feeling of wetness. Hence, when the particular
conjunction of sensations arises apart from this external circumstance, we erroneously infer
its presence.[22]

The most interesting case of illusion connected with the fusion of simultaneous sensations,
is that of single vision, or the deeply organized habit of combining the sensations of what
are called the corresponding points of the two retinas. This coalescence of two sensations
is so far erroneous since it makes us overlook the existence of two distinct external agencies
acting on different parts of the sensitive surface of the body. And this is the more striking
in the case of looking at solid objects, since here it is demonstrable that the forces acting
on the two retinas are not perfectly similar. Nevertheless, such a coalescence plainly answers
to the fact that these external agencies usually arise in one and the same object, and this
unity of the object is, of course, the all-important thing to be sure of.

This habit may, however, beget palpable illusion in another way. In certain exceptional cases
the coalescence does not take place, as when I look at a distant object and hold a pencil just
before my eyes.[23] And in this case the organized tendency to take one visual impression for
one object asserts its force, and I tend to fall into the illusion of seeing two separate pencils.
If I do not wholly lapse into the error, it is because my experience has made me vaguely aware
that double images under these circumstances answer to one object, and that if there were really
two pencils present I should have four visual impressions.

Once more, it is a law of sensory stimulation that an impression persists for an appreciable
time after the cessation of the action of the stimulus. This "after sensation" will clearly
lead to illusion, in so far as we tend to think of the stimulus as still at work. It forms,
indeed, as will be seen by-and-by, the simplest and lowest stage of hallucination. Sometimes
this becomes the first stage of a palpable error. After listening to a child crying for some
time the ear easily deceives itself into supposing that the noise is continued when it has
actually ceased. Again, after taking a bandage from a finger, the tingling and other sensations
due to the pressure sometimes persist for a good time, in which case they easily give rise
to an illusion that the finger is still bound.

It follows from this fact of the reverberation of the nervous structures after the removal
of a stimulus, that whenever two discontinuous stimulations follow one another rapidly enough,
they will appear continuous. This fact is a fruitful source of optical illusion. The appearance
of a blending of the stripes of colours on a rotating disc or top, of the formation of a ring
of light by swinging round a piece of burning wood, and the illusion of the toy known as the
thaumatrope, or wheel of life, all depend on this persistence of retinal impression. Many of
the startling effects of sleight of hand are undoubtedly due in part to this principle. If
two successive actions or sets of circumstances to which the attention of the spectator is
specially directed follow one another by a very narrow interval of time, they easily appear
continuous, so that there seems absolutely no time for the introduction of an intermediate
step.[24]

There is another limit to sensibility which is in a manner the opposite to the one just named.
It is a law of nervous stimulation that a continued activity of any structure results in less
and less psychic result, and that when a stimulus is always at work it ceases in time to have
any appreciable effect. The common illustration of this law is drawn from the region of sound.
A constant noise, as of a mill, ceases to produce any conscious sensation. This fact, it is
plain, may easily become the commencement of an illusion. Not only may we mistake a measure
of noise for perfect silence,[25] we may misconceive the real nature of external circumstances
by overlooking some continuous impression.

Curious illustrations of this effect are found in optical illusions, namely, the errors we
make respecting the movement of stationary objects after continued movement of the eyes. When,
for example, in a railway carriage we have for some time been following the (apparent) movement
of objects, as trees, etc., and turn our eyes to an apparently stationary object, as the carpet
of the compartment, this seems to move in the contrary direction to that of the trees. Helmholtz's
explanation of this illusion is that when we suppose that we are fixing our eye on the carpet
we are really continuing to move it over the surface by reason of the organic tendency, already
spoken of, to go on doing anything that has been done. But since we are unaware of this prolonged
series of ocular movements, the muscular feelings having become faint, we take the impression
produced by the sliding of the picture over the retina to be the result of a movement of the
object.[26]

Another limit to our sensibility, which needs to be just touched on here, is known by the name
of the specific energy of the nerves. One and the same nerve-fibre always reacts in a precisely
similar way, whatever the nature of the stimulus. Thus, when the optic nerve is stimulated
in any manner, whether by light, mechanical pressure, or an electric current, the same effect,
a sensation of light, follows.[27] In a usual way, a given class of nerve-fibre is only stimulated
by one kind of stimulus. Thus, the retina, in ordinary circumstances, is stimulated by light.
Owing to this fact, there has arisen a deeply organized habit of translating the impression
in one particular way. Thus, I instinctively regard a sensation received by means of the optic
nerve as one caused by light.

Accordingly, whenever circumstances arise in which a like sensation is produced by another
kind of stimulus, we fall into illusion. The phosphenes, or circles of light which are seen
when the hinder part of the eyeball is pressed, may be said to be illusory in so far as we
speak of them as perceptions of light, thus referring them to the external physical agency
which usually causes them. The same remark applies to those "subjective sensations," as they
are called, which are known to have as their physical cause subjective stimuli, consisting,
in the case of sight, in varying conditions of the peripheral organ, as increased blood-pressure.
Strictly speaking, such simple feelings as these appear to be, involve an ingredient of false
perception: in saying that we perceive light at all, we go beyond the pure sensation, interpreting
this wrongly.

Very closely connected with this limitation of our sensibility is another which refers to the
consciousness of the local seat, or origin of the impression. This has so far its basis in
the sensation itself as it is well known that (within the limits of local discrimination, referred
to above) sensations have a particular "local" colour, which varies in the case of each of
the nervous fibres by the stimulation of which they arise.[28] But though this much is known
through a difference in the sensibility, nothing more is known. Nothing can certainly be ascertained
by a mere inspection of the sensation as to the distance the nervous process has travelled,
whether from the peripheral termination of the fibre or from some intermediate point.

In a general way, we refer our sensations to the peripheral endings of the nerves concerned,
according to what physiologists have called "the law of eccentricity." Thus I am said to feel
the pain caused by a bruise in the foot in the member itself. This applies also to some of
the sensations of the special senses. Thus, impressions of taste are clearly localized in the
corresponding peripheral terminations.

With respect to the sense of smell, and still more to those of hearing and sight, where the
impression is usually caused by an object at a distance from the peripheral organ, our attention
to this external cause leads us to overlook in part the "bodily seat" of the sensation. Yet
even here we are dimly aware that the sensation is received by way of a particular part of
the sensitive surface, that is to say, by a particular sense-organ. Thus, though referring
an odour to a distant flower, we perceive that the sensation of odour has its bodily origin
in the nose. And even in the case of hearing and sight, we vaguely refer the impressions, as
such, to the appropriate sense-organ. There is, indeed, in these cases a double local reference,
a faint one to the peripheral organ which is acted on, and a more distinct one to the object
or the force in the environment which acts on this.

Now, it may be said that the act of localization is in itself distinctly illusory, since it
is known that the sensation first arises in connection with the excitation of the sensory centre,
and not of the peripheral fibre.[29] Yet it must at least be allowed that this localization
of sensation answers to the important fact that, under usual circumstances, the agency producing
the sensation is applied at this particular point of the organism, the knowledge of which point
is supposed by modern psychologists to have been very slowly learnt by the individual and the
race, through countless experiments with the moving organ of touch, assisted by the eye.

Similarly, the reference of the impression, in the case of hearing and sight, to an object
in the environment, though, as we have seen, from one point of view illusory, clearly answers
to a fact of our habitual experience; for in an immense preponderance of cases at least a visual
or auditory impression does arise through the action on the sense-organ of a force (ether or
air waves) proceeding from a distant object.

In some circumstances, however, even this element of practical truth disappears, and the localization
of the impression, both within and without the organism, becomes altogether illusory. This
result is involved in the illusions, already spoken of, which arise from the instinctive tendency
to refer sensations to the ordinary kind of stimulus. Thus, when a feeling resulting from a
disturbance in the optic nerve is interpreted as one of external light vaguely felt to be acting
on the eye, or one resulting from some action set up in the auditory fibre as a sensation of
external sound vaguely felt to be entering the ear, we see that the error of localization is
a consequence of the other error already characterized.

As I have already observed, an excitation of a nerve at any other point than the peripheral
termination, occurs but rarely in normal life. One familiar instance is the stimulation of
the nerve running to the hand and fingers, by a sharp blow on the elbow over which it passes.
As everybody knows, this gives rise to a sense of pain at the extremities of the nerve. The
most common illustration of such errors of localization is found in subjective sensations,
such as the impression we sometimes have of something creeping over the skin, of a disagreeable
taste in the mouth, of luminous spots floating across the field of vision, and so on. The exact
physiological seat of these is often a matter of conjecture only; yet it may safely be said
that in many instances the nervous excitation originates at some point considerably short of
its peripheral extremity: in which case there occurs the illusion of referring the impressions
to the peripheral sense-organ, and to an external force acting on this.

The most striking instances of these errors of localization are found in abnormal circumstances.
It is well known that a man who has lost a leg refers all sensations arising from a stimulation
of the truncated fibres to his lost foot, and in some cases has even to convince himself of
the non-existence of his lost member by sight or touch. Patients often describe these experiences
in very odd language. "If," says one of Dr. Weir Mitchell's patients, "I should say I am more
sure of the leg which ain't than the one which air, I guess I should be about correct."[30]

There is good reason for supposing that this source of error plays a prominent part in the
illusions of the insane. Diseased centres may be accompanied by disordered peripheral structures,
and so subjective sensation may frequently be the starting-point of the wildest illusions.
Thus, a patient's horror of poison may have its first origin in some subjective gustatory sensation.
Similarly, subjective tactual sensations may give rise to gross illusions, as when a patient
"feels" his body attacked by foul and destructive creatures.

It may be well to remark that this mistaken interpretation of the seat or origin of subjective
sensation is closely related to hallucination. In so far as the error involves the ascription
of the sensation to a force external to the sense-organ, this part of the mental process must,
when there is no such force present, be viewed as hallucinatory. Thus, the feeling of something
creeping over the skin is an hallucination in the sense that it implies the idea of an object
external to the skin. Similarly, the projection of an ocular impression due to retinal disturbance
into the external field of vision, may rightly be named an hallucination. But the case is not
always so clear as this. Thus, for example, when a gustatory sensation is the result of an
altered condition of the saliva, it may be said that the error is as much an illusion as an
hallucination.[31]

In a wide sense, again, all errors connected with those subjective sensations which arise from
a stimulation of the peripheral regions of the nerve may be called illusions rather than hallucinations.
Or, if they must be called hallucinations, they may be distinguished as "peripheral" from those
"central" hallucinations which arise through an internal automatic excitation of the sensory
centre. It is plain from this that the region of subjective sensation is an ambiguous region,
where illusion and hallucination mix and become confused. To this point I shall have occasion
to return by-and-by.

I have now probably said enough respecting the illusions that arise through the fact of there
being fixed limits to our sensibility. The rationale of these illusions is that whenever the
limit is reached, we tend to ignore it and to interpret the impression in the customary way.

Variations of Sensibility.

We will now pass to a number of illusions which depend on something variable in the condition
of our sensibility, or some more or less exceptional organic circumstance. These variations
may be momentary and transient or comparatively permanent. The illusion arises in each case
from our ignoring the variation, and treating a given sensation under all circumstances as
answering to one objective cause.

First of all, the variation of organic state may affect our mental representation of the strength
of the stimulus or external cause. Here the fluctuation may be a temporary or a permanent one.
The first case is illustrated in the familiar example of taking a room to be brighter than
it is when emerging from a dark one. Another striking example is that of our sense of the temperature
of objects, which is known to be strictly relative to a previous sensation, or more correctly
to the momentary condition of the organ. Yet, though every intelligent person knows this, the
deeply rooted habit of making sensation the measure of objective quality asserts its sway,
and frequently leads us into illusion. The well-known experiment of first plunging one hand
in cold water, the other in hot, and then dipping them both in tepid, is a startling example
of this organized tendency. For here we are strongly disposed to accept the palpable contradiction
that the same water is at once warm and cool.

Far more important than these temporary fluctuations of sensibility are the permanent alterations.
Excessive fatigue, want of proper nutrition, and certain poisons are well known to be causes
of such changes. They appear most commonly under two forms, exalted sensibility, or hyperæsthesia,
and depressed sensibility, or anæsthesia. In these conditions flagrant errors are made as to
the real magnitude of the causes of the sensations. These variations may occur in normal life
to some extent. In fairly good health we experience at times strange exaltations of tactual
sensibility, so that a very slight stimulus, such as the contact of the bed-clothes, becomes
greatly exaggerated.

In diseased states of the nervous system these variations of sensibility become much more striking.
The patient who has hyperæsthesia fears to touch a perfectly smooth surface, or he takes a
knock at the door to be a clap of thunder. The hypochondriac may, through an increase of organic
sensibility, translate organic sensations as the effect of some living creature gnawing at
his vitals. Again, states of anæsthesia lead to odd illusions among the insane. The common
supposition that the body is dead, or made of wood or of glass, is clearly referable in part
to lowered sensibility of the organism.[32]

It is worth adding, perhaps, that these variations in sensibility give rise not only to sensory
but also to motor illusions. To take a homely instance, the last miles of a long walk seem
much longer than the first, not only because the sense of fatigue leading us to dwell on the
transition of time tends to magnify the apparent duration, but because the fatigued muscles
and connected nerves yield a new set of sensations which constitute an exaggerated standard
of measurement. A number of optical illusions illustrate the same thing. Our visual sense of
direction is determined in part by the feelings accompanying the action of the ocular muscles,
and so is closely connected with the perception of movement, which has already been touched
on. If an ocular muscle is partially paralyzed it takes a much greater "effort" to effect a
given extent of movement than when the muscle is sound. Hence any movement performed by the
eye seems exaggerated. Hence, too, in this condition objects are seen in a wrong direction;
for the patient reasons that they are where they would seem to be if he had executed a wider
movement than he really has. This may easily be proved by asking him to try to seize the object
with, his hand. The effect is exaggerated when complete paralysis sets in, and no actual movement
occurs in obedience to the impulse from within.[33]

Variations in the condition of the nerve affect not only the degree, but also the quality of
the sensation, and this fact gives rise to a new kind of illusion. The curious phenomena of
colour-contrast illustrate momentary alterations of sensibility. When, after looking at a green
colour for a time, I turn my eye to a grey surface and see this of the complementary rose-red
hue, the effect is supposed to be due to a temporary fatigue of the retina in relation to those
ingredients of the total light in the second case which answer to the partial light in the
first (the green rays).[34]

These momentary modifications of sensibility are of no practical significance, being almost
instantly corrected. Other modifications are more permanent. It was found by Himly that when
the retina is overexcitable every stimulus is raised in the spectrum scale of colours. Thus,
violet becomes red. An exactly opposite effect is observed when the retina is torpid.[35] Certain
poisons are known to affect the quality of the colour-impression. Thus, santonin, when taken
in any quantity, makes all colourless objects look yellow. Severe pathological disturbances
are known to involve, in addition to hyperæsthesia and anæsthesia, what, has been called paræsthesia,
that is to say, that condition in which the quality of sensation is greatly changed. Thus,
for example, to one in this state all food appears to have a metallic taste, and so on.

If we now glance back at the various groups of illusions just illustrated, we find that they
all have this feature in common: they depend on the general mental law that when we have to
do with the unfrequent, the unimportant, and therefore unattended to, and the exceptional,
we employ the ordinary, the familiar, and the well-known as our standard. Thus, whether we
are dealing with sensations that fall below the ordinary limits of our mental experience, or
with those which arise in some exceptional state of the organism, we carry the habits formed
in the much wider region of average every-day perception with us. In a word, illusion in these
cases always arises through what may, figuratively at least, be described as the application
of a rule, valid for the majority of cases, to an exceptional case.

In the varieties of illusion just considered, the circumstance that gives the peculiarity to
the case thus wrongly interpreted has been referred to the organism. In the illusions to which
we now pass, it will be referred to the environment. At the same time, it is plain that there
is no very sharp distinction between the two classes. Thus, the visual illusion produced by
pressing the eyeball might be regarded not only as the result of the organic law of the "specific
energy" of the nerves, but, with almost equal appropriateness, as the consequence of an exceptional
state of things in the environment, namely, the pressure of a body on the retina. As I have
already observed, the classification here adopted is to be viewed simply as a rough expedient
for securing something like a systematic review of the phenomena.

In the following groups of illusion we may look away from nervous processes and organic disturbances,
regarding the effect of any external stimulus as characteristic, that is, as clearly marked
off from the effects of other stimuli, and as constant for the same stimulus. The source of
the illusion will be looked for in something exceptional in the external circumstances, whereby
one object or condition of an object imitates the effect of another object or condition, to
which, owing to a large preponderance of experience, we at once refer it.

Exceptional Relation of Stimulus to Organ.

A transition from the preceding to the following class of illusions is to be met with in those
errors which arise from a very exceptional relation between the stimulus and the organ of sense.
Such a state of things is naturally interpreted by help of more common and familiar relations,
and so error arises.

For example, we may grossly misinterpret the intensity of a stimulus under certain circumstances.
Thus, when a man crunches a biscuit, he has an uncomfortable feeling that the noise as of all
the structures of his head being violently smashed is the same to other ears, and he may even
act on his illusory perception, by keeping at a respectful distance from all observers. And
even though he be a physiologist, and knows that the force of sensation in this case is due
to the propagation of vibrations to the auditory centre by other channels than the usual one
of the ear, the deeply organized impulse to measure the strength of an external stimulus by
the intensity of the sensation asserts its force.

Again, if we turn to the process of perceptional construction properly so called, the reference
of the sensation to a material object lying in a certain direction, etc., we find a similar
transitional form of illusion. The most interesting case of this in visual perception is that
of a disturbance or displacement of the organ by external force. For example, an illusory sense
of direction arises by the simple action of closing one eye, say the left, and pressing the
other eyeball with one of the fingers a little outwards, that is to the right. The result of
this movement is, of course, to transfer the retinal picture to new nervous elements further
to the right. And since, in this instance, the displacement is not produced in the ordinary
way by the activity of the ocular muscle making itself known by certain feelings of movement,
it is disregarded altogether, and the direction of the objects is judged as though the eye
were stationary.

A somewhat similar illusion as to direction occurs in auditory perception. The sense of direction
by the ear is known to be due in part to the action of the auricle, or projecting part of the
ear. This collects the air-waves, and so adds to the intensity of the sounds, especially those
coming from in front, and thus assists in the estimation of direction. This being so, if an
artificial auricle is placed in front of the ears; if, for example, the two hands are each
bent into a sort of auricle, and placed in front of the ears, the back of the hand being in
front, the sense of direction (as well as of distance) is confused. Thus, sounds really travelling
from a point in front of the head will appear to come from behind it.

Again, the perception of the unity of an object is liable to be falsified by the introduction
of exceptional circumstances into the sense-organ. This is illustrated in the well-known experiment
of crossing two fingers, say the third and fourth, and placing a marble or other small round
object between them. Under ordinary circumstances, the two lateral surfaces (that is, the outer
surfaces of the two fingers) now pressed by the marble, can only be acted on simultaneously
by two objects having convex surfaces. Consequently, we cannot help feeling the presence of
two objects in this exceptional instance. The illusion is analogous to that of the stereoscope,
to be spoken of presently.

Exceptional External Arrangements.

Passing now to those cases where the exceptional circumstance is altogether exterior to the
organ, we find a familiar example in the illusions connected with the action of well-known
physical forces, as the refraction of light, and the reflection of light and sound. A stick
half-immersed in water always looks broken, however well we may know that the appearance is
due to the bending of the rays of light. Similarly, an echo always sounds as though it came
from some object in the direction in which the air-waves finally travel to the ear, though
we are perfectly sure that these undulations have taken a circuitous course. It is hardly necessary
to remind the reader that the deeply organized tendency to mistake the direction of the visible
or audible object in these cases has from remote ages been made use of as a means of popular
delusion. Thus, we are told by Sir D. Brewster, in his entertaining Letters on Natural Magic
(letter iv.), that the concave mirror was probably used as the instrument for bringing the
gods before the people. The throwing of the images formed by such mirrors upon smoke or against
fire, so as to make them more distinct, seems to have been a favourite device in the ancient
art of necromancy.

Closely connected with these illusions of direction with respect to resting objects, are those
into which we are apt to fall respecting the movements of objects. What looks like the movement
of something across the field of vision is made known to us either by the feeling of the ocular
muscles, if the eye follows the object, or through the sequence of locally distinct retinal
impressions, if the eye is stationary. Now, either of these effects may result, not only from
the actual movement of the object in a particular direction, but from our own movement in an
opposite direction; or, again, from our both moving in the first direction, the object more
rapidly than ourselves; or, finally, from our both moving in an opposite direction to this,
ourselves more rapidly than the object. There is thus always a variety of conceivable explanations,
and the action of past experience and association shows itself very plainly in the determination
of the direction of interpretation. Thus, it is our instinctive tendency to take apparent movement
for real movement, except when the fact of our own movement is clearly present to consciousness,
as when we are walking, or when we are sitting behind a horse whose movement we see. And so
when the sense of our own movement becomes indistinct, as in a railway carriage, we naturally
drift into the illusion that objects, such as trees, telegraph posts, and so on, are moving,
when they are perfectly still. Under the same circumstances, we are apt to suppose that a train
which is just shooting ahead of us is moving slowly.

Similar uncertainties arise with respect to the relative movement of two objects, the eye being
supposed to be fixed in space. When two objects seem to pass one another, it may be that they
are both moving in contrary directions, or that one only is moving, or finally, that both are
moving in the same direction, the one faster than the other. Experience and habit here again
suggest the interpretation which is most easy, and not unfrequently produce illusion. Thus,
when we watch clouds scudding over the face of the moon, the latter seems moving rather than
the former, and the illusion only disappears when we fix the eye on the moon and recognize
that it is really stationary. The probable reason of this is, as Wundt suggests, that experience
has made it far easier for us to think of small objects like the moon moving rapidly, than
of large masses like the clouds.[36]

The perception of distance, still more than that of direction, is liable to be illusory. Indeed,
the visual recognition of distance, together with that of solidity, has been the great region
for the study of "the deceptions of the senses." Without treating the subject fully here, I
shall try to describe briefly the nature and source of these illusions.[37]

Confining ourselves first of all to near objects, we know that the smaller differences of distance
in these cases are, if the eyes are at rest, perceived by means of the dissimilar pictures
projected on the two retinas; or if they move, by this means, together with the muscular feelings
that accompany different degrees of convergence of the two eyes. This was demonstrated by the
famous experiments of Wheatstone. Thus, by means of the now familiar stereoscope, he was able
to produce a perfect illusion of relief. The stereoscope may be said to introduce an exceptional
state of things into the spectator's environment. It imitates, by means of two flat drawings,
the dissimilar retinal pictures projected by a single solid receding object, and the lenses
through which the eyes look are so constructed as to compel them to converge as though looking
on a single object. And so powerful is the tendency to interpret this impression as one of
solidity, that even though we are aware of the presence of the stereoscopic apparatus, we cannot
help seeing the two drawings as a single solid object.

In the case of more remote objects, there is no dissimilarity of the retinal pictures or feelings
of convergence to assist the eye in determining distance. Here its judgment, which now becomes
more of a process of conscious inference, is determined by a number of circumstances which,
through experience and association, have become the signs of differences of depth in space.
Among these are the degree of indistinctness of the impression, the apparent or retinal magnitude
(if the object is a familiar one), the relations of linear perspective, as the interruption
of the outline of far objects by that of near objects, and so on. In a process so complicated
there is clearly ample room for error, and wrong estimates of distance whenever unusual circumstances
are present are familiar to all. Thus, the inexperienced English tourist, when in the clear
atmosphere of Switzerland, where the impressions from distant objects are more distinct than
at home, naturally falls into the illusion that the mountains are much nearer than they are,
and so fails to realize their true altitude.

Illusions of Art.

The imitation of solidity and depth by art is a curious and interesting illustration of the
mode of production of illusion. Here we are not, of course, concerned with the question how
far illusion is desirable in art, but only with its capabilities of illusory presentment; which
capabilities, it may be added, have been fully illustrated in the history of art. The full
treatment of this subject would form a chapter in itself; here I can only touch on its main
features.

Pictorial art working on a flat surface cannot, it is plain, imitate the stereoscope, and produce
a perfect sense of solidity. Yet it manages to produce a pretty strong illusion. It illustrates
in a striking manner the ease with which the eye conceives relations of depth or relief and
solidity. If, for example, on a carpet, wall-paper, or dress, bright lines are laid on a dark
colour as ground, we easily imagine that they are advancing. The reason of this seems to be
that in our daily experience advancing surfaces catch and reflect the light, whereas retiring
surfaces are in shadow.[38]

The same principle is illustrated in one of the means used by the artist to produce a strong
sense of relief, namely, the cast shadow. A circle drawn with chalk with a powerful cast shadow
on one side will, without any shading or modelling of the form, appear to stand out from the
paper, thus:

The reason is that the presence of such a shadow so forcibly suggests to the mind that the
object is a prominent one intervening between the light and the shaded surface.[39]

Even without differences of light and shade, by a mere arrangement of lines, we may produce
a powerful sense of relief or solidity. A striking example of this is the way in which two
intersecting lines sometimes appear to recede from the eye, as the lines a a', b b', in the
next drawing, which seem to belong to a regular pattern on the ground, at which the eye is
looking from above and obliquely.

Again, the correct delineation of the projection of a regular geometrical figure, as a cube,
suffices to give the eye a sense of relief. This effect is found to be the more striking in
proportion to the familiarity of the form. The following drawing of a long box-shaped solid
at once seems to stand out to the eye.

This habitual interpretation of the flat in art as answering to objects in relief, or having
depth, can only be understood when it is remembered that our daily experience gives us myriads
of instances in which the effect of such flat representations answers to solid receding forms.
That is to say, in the case of all distant objects, in the perception of which the dissimilarity
of the retinal pictures and the feeling of convergence take no part, we have to interpret solidity,
and relations of nearer and further, by such signs as linear perspective and cast shadow. On
the other hand, it is only in the artificial life of indoors, on our picture-covered walls,
that we experience such effects without discovering corresponding realities. Hence a deeply
organized habit of taking these impressions as answering to the solid and not to the flat.
If our experience had been quite different; if, for example, we had been brought up in an empty
room, amid painted walls, and had been excluded from the sight of the world of receding objects
outside, we might easily have formed an exactly opposite habit of taking the actual mountains,
trees, etc., of the distant scene to be pictures laid on a flat surface.

It follows from this that, with respect to the distant parts of a scene, pictorial art possesses
the means of perfect imitation; and here we see that a complete illusory effect is obtainable.
I need but to refer to the well-known devices of linear and aerial perspective, by which this
result is secured.[40] The value of these means of producing illusion at the command of the
painter, may be illustrated by the following fact, which I borrow from Helmholtz. If you place
two pieces of cardboard which correspond to portions of one form at the sides and in front
of a third piece, in the way represented above, so as just to allow the eye to follow the contour
of this last, and then look at this arrangement from a point at some little distance with one
eye, you easily suppose that it stands in front of the side pieces. The explanation of the
illusion is that this particular arrangement powerfully suggests that the outline of the whole
figure, of which the two side pieces are parts, is broken by an intervening object. Owing to
the force of these and other suggestions, it is easy for the spectator, when attending to the
background of a landscape painting, to give himself up for a moment to the pleasant delusion
that he is looking at an actual receding scene.

In connection with pictorial delusion, I may refer to the well-known fact, that the eye in
a portrait seems to follow the spectator, or that a gun, with its muzzle pointing straight
outwards, appears to turn as the spectator moves.[41] These tricks of art have puzzled many
people, yet their effect is easily understood, and has been very clearly explained by Sir D.
Brewster, in the work already referred to (letter v.). They depend on the fact that a painting,
being a flat projection only and not a solid, continues to present the front view of an object
which it represents wherever the spectator happens to stand. Were the eye in the portrait a
real eye, a side movement of the spectator would, it is evident, cause him to see less of the
pupil and more of the side of the eyeball, and he would only continue to see the full pupil
when the eye followed him. We regard the eye in the picture as a real eye having relief, and
judge accordingly.

We may fall into similar illusions respecting distance in auditory perception. A change of
wind, an unusual stillness in the air, is quite sufficient to produce the sense that sounding
objects are nearer than they actually are. The art of the ventriloquist manifestly aims at
producing this kind of illusion. By imitating the dull effect of a distant voice, he is able
to excite in the minds of his audience a powerful conviction that the sounds proceed from a
distant point. There is little doubt that ventriloquism has played a conspicuous part in the
arts of divination and magic.

Misconception of Local Arrangement.

Let us now pass to a class of illusions closely related to those having to do with distance,
but involving some special kind of circumstance which powerfully suggests a particular arrangement
in space. One of the most striking examples of these is the erroneous localization of a quality
in space, that is to say, the reference of it to an object nearer, or further off than the
right one. Thus, when we look through a piece of yellow glass at a dull, wintry landscape,
we are disposed to imagine that we are looking at a sunny scene of preternatural warmth. A
moment's reflection would tell us that the yellow tint, with which the objects appear to be
suffused, comes from the presence of the glass; yet, in spite of this, the illusion persists
with a curious force. The explanation is, of course, that the circumstances are exceptional,
that in a vast majority of cases the impression of colour belongs to the object and not to
an intervening medium,[42] and that consequently we tend to ignore the glass, and to refer
the colour to the objects themselves.

When, however, the fact of the existence of a coloured medium is distinctly present to the
mind, we easily learn to allow for this, and to recognize one coloured surface correctly through
a recognized medium. Thus, we appear to ourselves to see the reflected images of the wall,
etc., of a room, in a bright mahogany table, not suffused with a reddish yellow tint, as they
actually are--and may be seen to be by the simple device of looking at a small bit of the image
through a tube, but in their ordinary colour. We may be said to fall into illusion here in
so far as we overlook the exact quality of the impression actually made on the eye. This point
will be touched on presently. Here I am concerned to show that this habit of allowing for the
coloured medium may, in its turn, occasionally lead to plain and palpable illusion.

The most striking example of this error is to be met with among the curious phenomena of colour-contrast
already referred to. In many of these cases the appearance of the contrasting colour is, as
I have observed, due to a temporary modification of the nervous substance. Yet it is found
that this organic factor does not wholly account for the phenomena. For example, Meyer made
the following experiment. He covered a piece of green paper by a sheet of thin transparent
white paper. The colour of this double surface was, of course, a pale green. He then introduced
a scrap of grey paper between the two sheets, and found that, instead of looking whitish as
it really was, it looked rose-red. Whatever the colour of the under sheet the grey scrap took
the complementary hue. If, however, the piece of grey paper is put outside the thin sheet,
it looks grey; and what is most remarkable is that when a second piece is put outside, the
scrap inside no longer wears the complementary hue.

There is here evidently something more than a change of organic conditions; there is an action
of experience and suggestion. The reason of our seeing the scrap rose-red in one case and neutral
grey in another, is that in the first instance we vividly represent to ourselves that we are
looking at it through a greenish veil (which is, of course, a part of the illusion); for rose-red
seen through a greenish medium would, as a matter of fact, be light grey, as this scrap is.
Even if we allow that there always exists after an impression of colour a temporary organic
disposition to see the complementary hue, this does not suffice as an explanation of these
cases; we have to conclude further that imagination, led by the usual run of our experience,
is here a co-operant factor, and helps to determine whether the complementary tint shall be
seen or not.

Misinterpretation of Form.

More complex and circumscribed associations take part in those errors which we occasionally
commit respecting the particular form of objects. This has already been touched on in dealing
with artistic illusion. The disposition of the eye to attribute solidity to a flat drawing
is the more powerful in proportion to the familiarity of the form. Thus, an outline drawing
of a building is apt to stand out with special force.

Another curious illustration of this is the phenomenon known as the conversion of the concave
mould or matrix of a medal into the corresponding convex relief. If, says Helmholtz, the mould
of a medal be illuminated by a light falling obliquely so as to produce strong shadows, and
if we regard this with one eye, we easily fall into the illusion that it is the original raised
design, illuminated from the opposite side. As a matter of fact, the visual impression produced
by a concave form with the light falling on one side, very closely resembles that produced
by a corresponding convex form with the light falling on the other side. At the same time,
it is found that the opposite mode of conversion, that is to say, the transformation of the
raised into the depressed form, though occurring occasionally, is much less frequent. Now,
it may be asked, why should we tend to transform the concave into the convex, rather than the
convex into the concave? The reader may easily anticipate the answer from what has been said
about the deeply fixed tendency of the eye to solidify a plane surface. We are rendered much
more familiar, both by nature and by art, with raised (cameo) design than with depressed design
(intaglio), and we instinctively interpret the less familiar form by the more familiar. This
explanation appears to be borne out by the fact emphasized by Schroeder that the illusion is
much more powerful if the design is that of some well-known object, as the human head or figure,
or an animal form, or leaves.[43]

Another illustration of this kind of illusion recently occurred in my own experience. Nearly
opposite to my window came a narrow space between two detached houses. This was, of course,
darker than the front of the houses, and the receding parallel lines of the bricks appeared
to cross this marrow vertical shaft obliquely. I could never look at this without seeing it
as a convex column, round which the parallel lines wound obliquely. Others saw it as I did,
though not always with the same overpowering effect. I can only account for this illusion by
help of the general tendency of the eye to solidify impressions drawn from the flat, together
with the effect of special types of experience, more particularly the perception of cylindrical
forms in trees, columns, etc.

It may be added that a somewhat similar illustration of the action of special types of experience
on the perception of individual form may be found in the region of hearing. The powerful disposition
to take the finely graduated cadences of sound produced by the wind for the utterances of a
Iranian voice, is due to the fact that this particular form and arrangement of sound has deeply
impressed itself on our minds, in connection with numberless utterances of human feeling.

Illusions of Recognition.

As a last illustration of comparatively passive illusions, I may refer to the errors which
we occasionally commit in recognizing objects. As I have already observed, the process of full
and clear recognition, specific and individual, involves a classing of a number of distinct
aspects of the object, such as colour, form, etc. Accordingly, when in a perfectly calm state
of mind we fall into illusion with respect to any object plainly visible, it must be through
some accidental resemblance between the object and the other object or class of objects with
which we identify it. In the case of individual identification such illusions are, of course,
comparatively rare, since here there are involved so many characteristic differences. On the
other hand, in the case of specific recognition there is ample room for error, especially in
those kinds of more subtle recognition to which I have already referred. To "recognize" a person
as a Frenchman or a military man, for example, is often an erroneous process. Logicians have
included this kind of error under what they call "fallacies of observation."

Errors of recognition, both specific and individual, are, of course, more easy in the case
of distant objects or objects otherwise indistinctly seen. It is noticeable in these cases
that, even when perfectly cool and free from emotional excitement, we tend to interpret such
indistinct impressions according to certain favourite types of experience, as the human face
and figure. Our interpretative imagination easily sees traces of the human form in cloud, rock,
or tree-stump.

Again, even when there is no error of recognition, in the sense of confusing one object with
other objects, there may be partial illusion. I have remarked that the process of recognizing
an object commonly involves an overlooking of points of diversity in the object, or aspect
of the object, now present. And sometimes this inattention to what is actually present includes
an error as to the actual visual sensation of the moment. Thus, for example, when I look at
a sheet of white paper in a feebly lit room, I seem to see its whiteness. If, however, I bring
it near the window, and let the sun fall on a part of it, I at once recognize that what I have
been seeing is not white, but a decided grey. Similarly, when I look at a brick viaduct a mile
or two off, I appear to myself to recognize its redness. In fact, however, the impression of
colour which I receive from the object is not that of brick-red at all, but a much less decided
tint; which I may easily prove by bending my head downwards and letting the scene image itself
on the retina in an unusual way, in which case the recognition of the object as a viaduct being
less distinct, I am better able to attend to the exact shade of the colour.

Nowhere is this inattention to the sensation of the moment exhibited in so striking a manner
as in pictorial art. A picture of Meissonier may give the eye a representation of a scene in
which the objects, as the human figures and horses, have a distinctness that belongs to near
objects, but an apparent magnitude that belongs to distant objects. So again, it is found that
the degree of luminosity or brightness of a pictorial representation differs in general enormously
from that of the actual objects. Thus, according to the calculations of Helmholtz,[44] a picture
representing a Bedouin's white raiment in blinding sunshine, will, when seen in a fairly lit
gallery, have a degree of luminosity reaching only to about one-thirtieth of that of the actual
object. On the other hand, a painting representing marble ruins illuminated by moonlight, will,
under the same conditions of illumination, have a luminosity amounting to as much as from ten
to twenty thousand times that of the object. Yet the spectator does not notice these stupendous
discrepancies. The representation, in spite of its vast difference, at once carries the mind
on to the actuality, and the spectator may even appear to himself, in moments of complete absorption,
to be looking at the actual scene.

The truly startling part of these illusions is, that the direct result of sensory stimulation
appears to be actually displaced by a mental image. Thus, in the case of Meyer's experiment,
of looking at the distant viaduct, and of recognizing an artistic representation, imagination
seems in a measure to take the place of sensation, or to blind the mind to what is actually
before it.

The mystery of the process, however, greatly disappears when it is remembered that what we
call a conscious "sensation" is really compounded of a result of sensory stimulation and a
result of central reaction, of a purely passive impression and the mental activity involved
in attending to this and classing it.[45] This being so, a sensation may be modified by anything
exceptional in the mode of central reaction of the moment. Now, in all the cases just considered,
we have one common feature, a powerful suggestion of the presence of a particular object or
local arrangement. This suggestion, taking the form of a vivid mental image, dominates and
overpowers the passive impression. Thus, in Meyer's experiment, the mind is possessed by the
supposition that we are looking at the grey spot through a greenish medium. So in the case
of the distant viaduct, we are under the mastery of the idea that what we see in the distance
is a red brick structure. Once more, in the instance of looking at the picture, the spectator's
imagination is enchained by the vivid representation of the object for which the picture stands,
as the marble ruins in the moonlight or the Bedouin in the desert.

It may be well to add that this mental uncertainty as to the exact nature of a present impression
is necessitated by the very conditions of accurate perception. If, as I have said, all recognition
takes place by overlooking points of diversity, the mind must, in course of time, acquire a
habit of not attending to the exact quality of sense-impressions in all cases where the interpretation
seems plain and obvious. Or, to use Helmholtz's words, our sensations are, in a general way,
of interest to us only as signs of things, and if we are sure of the thing, we readily overlook
the precise nature of the impression. In short, we get into the way of attending only to what
is essential, constant, and characteristic in objects, and disregarding what is variable and
accidental.[46] Thus, we attend, in the first place, to the form of objects, the most constant
and characteristic element of all, being comparatively inattentive to colour, which varies
with distance, atmospheric changes, and mode of illumination. So we attend to the relative
magnitude of objects rather than to the absolute, and to the relative intensities of light
and shade rather than to the absolute; for in so doing we are noting what is constant for all
distances and modes of illumination, and overlooking what is variable. And the success of pictorial
art depends on the observance of this law of perception.

These remarks at once point out the limits of these illusions. In normal circumstances, an
act of imagination, however vivid, cannot create the semblance of a sensation which is altogether
absent; it can only slightly modify the actual impression by interfering with that process
of comparison and classification which enters into all definite determination of sensational
quality.

Another great fact that has come to light in the investigation of these illusions is that oft-recurring
and familiar types of experience leave permanent dispositions in the mind. As I said when describing
the process of perception, what has been frequently perceived is perceived more and more readily.
It follows from this that the mind will be habitually disposed to form the corresponding mental
images, and to interpret impressions by help of these. The range of artistic suggestion depends
on this. A clever draughtsman can indicate a face by a few rough touches, and this is due to
the fact that the spectator's mind is so familiarized, through recurring experience and special
interest, with the object, that it is ready to construct the requisite mental image at the
slightest external suggestion. And hence the risk of hasty and illusory interpretation.

These observations naturally conduct us to the consideration of the second great group of sense-illusions,
which I have marked off as active illusions, where the action of a pre-existing intellectual
disposition becomes much more clearly marked, and assumes the form of a free imaginative transformation
of reality.

CHAPTER VI.

ILLUSIONS OF PERCEPTION--continued.

B. Active Illusions.

When giving an account of the mechanism of perception, I spoke of an independent action of
the imagination which tends to anticipate the process of suggestion from without. Thus, when
expecting a particular friend, I recognize his form much more readily than when my mind has
not been preoccupied with his image.

A little consideration will show that this process must be highly favourable to illusion. To
begin with, even if the preperception be correct, that is to say, if it answer to the perception,
the mere fact of vivid expectation will affect the exact moment of the completed act of perception.
And recent experiment shows that in certain cases such a previous activity of expectant attention
may even lead to the illusory belief that the perception takes place before it actually does.[47]

A more palpable source of error resides in the risk of the formation of an inappropriate preperception.
If a wrong mental image happens to have been formed and vividly entertained, and if the actual
impression fits in to a certain extent with this independently formed preperception, we may
have a fusion of the two which exactly simulates the form of a complete percept. Thus, for
example, in the case just supposed, if another person, bearing some resemblance to our expected
friend, chances to come into view, we may probably stumble into the error of taking one person
for another.

On the physical side, we may, agreeably to the hypothesis mentioned above, express this result
by saying that, owing to a partial identity in the nervous processes involved in the anticipatory
image and the impression, the two tend to run one into the other, constituting one continuous
process.

There are different ways in which this independent activity of the imagination may falsify
our perceptions. Thus, we may voluntarily choose to entertain a certain image for the moment,
and to look at the impression in a particular way, and within certain limits such capricious
selection of an interpretation is effectual in giving a special significance to an impression.
Or the process of independent preperception may go on apart from our volitions, and perhaps
in spite of these, in which case the illusion has something of the irresistible necessity of
a passive illusion. Let us consider separately each mode of production.

Voluntary Selection of Interpretation.

The action of a capricious exercise of the imagination in relation to an impression is illustrated
in those cases where experience and suggestion offer to the interpreting mind an uncertain
sound, that is to say, where the present sense-signs are ambiguous. Here we obviously have
a choice of interpretation. And it is found that, in these cases, what we see depends very
much on what we wish to see. The interpretation adopted is still, in a sense, the result of
suggestion, but of one particular suggestion which the fancy of the moment determines. Or,
to put it another way, the caprice of the moment causes the attention to focus itself in a
particular manner, to direct itself specially to certain aspects and relations of objects.

The eye's interpretation of movement, already referred to, obviously offers a wide field for
this play of selective imagination. When looking out of the window of a railway carriage, I
can at will picture to my mind the trees and telegraph posts as moving objects. Sometimes the
true interpretation is so uncertain that the least inclination to view the phenomenon in one
way determines the result. This is illustrated in a curious observation of Sinsteden. One evening,
on approaching a windmill obliquely from one side, which under these circumstances he saw only
as a dark silhouette against a bright sky, he noticed that the sails appeared to go, now in
one direction, now in another, according as he imagined himself looking at the front or at
the back of the windmill.[48]

In the interpretation of geometrical drawings, as those of crystals, there is, as I have observed,
a general tendency to view the flat delineation as answering to a raised object, or a body
in relief, according to the common run of our experience. Yet there are cases where experience
is less decided, and where, consequently, we may regard any particular line as advancing or
receding. And it is found that when we vividly imagine that the drawing is that of a convex
or concave surface, we see it to be so, with all the force of a complete perception. The least
disposition to see it in the other way will suffice to reverse the interpretation. Thus, in
the following drawing, the reader can easily see at will something answering to a truncated
pyramid, or to the interior of a cooking vessel.

Similarly, in the accompanying figure of a transparent solid, I can at will select either of
the two surfaces which approximately face the eye and regard it as the nearer, the other appearing
as the hinder surface looked at through the body.

Again, in the next drawing, taken from Schroeder, one may, by an effort of will, see the diagonal
step-like pattern, either as the view from above of the edge of an advancing piece of wall
at a, or as the view from below of the edge of an advancing (overhanging) piece of wall at b.

These last drawings are not in true perspective on either of the suppositions adopted, wherefore
the choice is easier. But even when an outline form is in perspective, a strenuous effort of
imagination may suffice to bring about a conversion of the appearance. Thus, if the reader
will look at the drawing of the box-like solid (Fig. 3, p. 79), he will find that, after a
trial or two, he succeeds in seeing it as a concave figure representing the coyer and two sides
of a box as looked at from within.[49]

Many of my readers, probably, share in my power of variously interpreting the relative position
of bands or stripes on fabrics such as wall-papers, according to wish. I find that it is possible
to view now this stripe or set of stripes as standing out in relief upon the others as a ground,
now these others as advancing out of the first as a background. The difficulty of selecting
either interpretation at will becomes greater, of course, in those cases where there is a powerful
suggestion of some particular local arrangement, as, for example, the case of patterns much
brighter than the ground, and especially of such as represent known objects, as flowers. Yet
even here a strong effort of imagination will often suffice to bring about a conversion of
the first appearance.

A somewhat similar choice of interpretation offers itself in looking at elaborate decorative
patterns. When we strongly imagine any number of details to be elements of one figure, they
seem to become so; and a given detail positively appears to alter in character according as
it is viewed as an element of a more or less complex figure.

These examples show what force belongs to a vivid preconception, if this happens to fit only
very roughly the impression of the moment, that is to say, if the interpretative image is one
of the possible suggestions of the impression. The play of imagination takes a wider range
in those cases where the impression is very indefinite in character, easily allowing of a considerable
variety of imaginative interpretation.

I referred at the beginning of this account of sense-illusions to the readiness with which
the mind deceives itself with respect to the nature and causes of the vague sensations which
usually form the dim background of our mental life. A person of lively imagination, by trying
to view these in a particular way, and by selectively attending to those aspects of the sensation
which answer to the caprice of the moment, may give a variety of interpretations to one and
the same set of sensations. For example, it is very easy to get confused with respect to those
tactual and motor feelings which inform us of the position of our bodily members. And so, when
lying in bed, and attending to the sensations connected with the legs, we may easily delude
ourselves into supposing that these members are arranged in a most eccentric fashion. Similarly,
by giving special heed to the sensations arising in connection with the condition of the skin
at any part, we may amuse ourselves with the strangest fancies as to what is going on in these
regions.

Again, when any object of visual perception is indistinct or indefinite in form, there is plainly
an opening for this capricious play of fancy in transforming the actual. This is illustrated
in the well-known pastime of discovering familiar forms, such as those of the human head and
animals, in distant rocks and clouds, and of seeing pictures in the fire, and so on. The indistinct
and indefinite shapes of the masses of rock, cloud, or glowing coal, offer an excellent field
for creative fancy, and a person of lively imagination will discover endless forms in what,
to an unimaginative eye, is a formless waste. Johannes Müller relates that, when a child, he
used to spend hours in discovering the outlines of forms in the partly blackened and cracked
stucco of the house that stood opposite to his own.[50] Here it is plain that, while experience
and association are not wholly absent, but place certain wide limits on this process of castle-building,
the spontaneous activity of the percipient mind is the great determining force.

So much as to the influence of a perfectly unfettered voluntary attention on the determination
of the stage of preperception, and, through this, of the resulting interpretation. Let us now
pass to cases in which this direction of preperception follows not the caprice of the moment,
but the leading of some fixed predisposition in the interpreter's mind. In these cases attention
is no longer free, but fettered, only it is now fettered rather from within than from without;
that is to say, the dominating preperception is much more the result of an independent bent
of the imagination than of some suggestion forced on the mind by the actual impression of the
moment.

Involuntary Mental Preadjustment.

If we glance back at the examples of capricious selection just noticed, we shall see that they
are really limited not only by the character of the impression of the time, but also by the
mental habits of the spectator. That is to say, we find that his fancy runs in certain definite
directions, and takes certain habitual forms. It has already been observed that the percipient
mind has very different attitudes with respect to various kinds of impression. Towards some
it holds itself at a distance, while towards others it at once bears itself familiarly; the
former are such as answer to its previous habit and bent of imagination, the latter such as
do not so answer.

This bent of the interpretative imagination assumes, as we have already seen, two forms, that
of a comparatively permanent disposition, and that of a temporary state of expectation or mental
preparedness. Illusion may arise in connection with either of these forms. Let us illustrate
both varieties, beginning with those which are due to a lasting mental disposition.

It is impossible here to specify all the causes of illusion residing in organized tendencies
of the mind. The whole past mental life, with its particular shade of experience, its ruling
emotions, and its habitual direction of fancy, serves to give a particular colour to new impressions,
and so to favour illusion. There is a "personal equation" in perception as in belief--an amount
of erroneous deviation from the common average view of external things, which is the outcome
of individual temperament and habits of mind. Thus, a naturally timid man will be in general
disposed to see ugly and fearful objects where a perfectly unbiased mind perceives nothing
of the kind; and the forms which these objects of dread will assume are determined by the character
of his past experience, and by the customary direction of his imagination.

In perfectly healthy states of mind this influence of temperament and mental habit on the perception
of external objects is, of course, very limited; it shows itself more distinctly, as we shall
see, in modifying the estimate of things in relation to the æsthetic and other feelings. This
applies to the mythical poetical way of looking at nature--a part of our subject to which we
shall have to return later on.

Passing now from the effect of such permanent dispositions, let us look at the more striking
results of temporary expectancy of mind.

When touching on the influence of such a temporary mental attitude in the process of correct
perception, I remarked that this readiness of mind might assume an indefinite or a definite
form. We will examine the effect of each kind in the production of illusion.

Action of Sub-Expectation.

First of all, then, our minds may at the particular moment be disposed to entertain any one
of a vaguely circumscribed group of images. Thus, to return to the example already referred
to, when in Italy, we are in a state of readiness to frame any of the images that we have learnt
to associate with this country. We may not be distinctly anticipating any one kind of object,
but are nevertheless in a condition of sub-expectation with reference to a large number of
objects. Accordingly, when an impression occurs which answers only very roughly to one of the
associated images, there is a tendency to superimpose the image on the impression. In this
way illusion arises. Thus, a man, when strolling in a cathedral, will be apt to take any kind
of faint hollow sound for the soft tones of an organ.

The disposition to anticipate fact and reality in this way will be all the stronger if, as
usually happens, the mental images thus lying ready for use have an emotional colouring. Emotion
is the great disturber of all intellectual operations. It effects marvellous things, as we
shall presently see, in the region of illusory belief, and its influence is very marked in
the seemingly cooler region of external perception. The effect of any emotional excitement
appears to be to give a preternatural vividness and persistence to the ideas answering to it,
that is to say, the ideas which are its excitants, or which are otherwise associated with it.
Owing to this circumstance, when the mind is under the temporary sway of any feeling, as, for
example, fear, there will be a special readiness to interpret objects by help of images congruent
with the emotion. Thus, a man under the control of fear will be ready to see any kind of fear-inspiring
object whenever there is any resemblance to such in the things actually present to his vision.
The state of awe which the surrounding circumstances of a spiritualist séance inspires produces
a general readiness of mind to perceive what is strange, mysterious, and apparently miraculous.

It is worth noting, perhaps, that those delightful half-illusions which imitative art seeks
to produce are greatly favoured by such a temporary attitude of the interpreting imagination.
In the theatre, for example, we are prepared for realizing the semblance of life that is to
be unfolded before us. We come knowing that what is to be performed aims at representing a
real action or actual series of events. We not improbably work ourselves into a slightly excited
state in anticipation of such a representation. More than this, as the play progresses, the
realization of what has gone before produces a strong disposition to believe in the reality
of what is to follow. And this effect is proportionate to the degree of coherence and continuity
in the action. In this way, there is a cumulative effect on the mind. If the action is good,
the illusion, as every play-goer knows, is most complete towards the end.

Were it not for all this mental preparation, the illusory character of the performance would
be too patent to view, and our enjoyment would suffer. A man is often aware of this when coming
into a theatre during the progress of a piece before his mind accommodates itself to the meaning
of the play. And the same thing is recognizable in the fact that the frequenter of the theatre
has his susceptibility to histrionic delusion increased by acquiring a habit of looking out
for the meaning of the performance. Persons who first see a play, unless they be of exceptional
imagination and have thought much about the theatre--as Charlotte Brontë, for instance--hardly
feel the illusion at all. At least, this is true of the opera, where the departure from reality
is so striking that the impression can hardly fail to be a ludicrous one, till the habit of
taking the performance for what it is intended to be is fully formed.[51]

A similar effect of intellectual preadjustment is observable in the fainter degrees of illusion
produced by pictorial art. Here the undeceiving circumstances, the flat surface, the surroundings,
and so on, would sometimes be quite sufficient to prevent the least degree of illusion, were
it not that the spectator comes prepared to see a representation of some real object. This
is our state of mind when we enter a picture gallery or approach what we recognize as a picture
on the wall of a room. A savage would not "realize" a slight sketch as soon as one accustomed
to pictorial representation, and ready to perform the required interpretative act.[52]

So much as to the effect of an indefinite state of sub-expectation in misleading our perceptions.
Let us now glance at the results of definite preimagination, including what are generally known
as expectations.

Effects of Vivid Expectation.

Such expectations may grow out of some present objective facts, which serve as signs of the
expected event; or they may arise by way of verbal suggestion; or, finally, they may be due
to internal spontaneous imagination.

In the first place, then, the expectations may grow out of previous perceptions, while, nevertheless,
the direction of the expectation may be a wrong one. Here the interpreting imagination is,
in a large sense, under the control of external suggestion, though, with respect to the particular
impression that is misconstrued, it may be regarded as acting independently and spontaneously.

Illustrations of this effect in producing illusion will easily occur to the reader. If I happen
to have heard that a particular person has been a soldier or clergyman, I tend to see the marks
of the class in this person, and sometimes find that this process of recognition is altogether
illusory. Again, let us suppose that a person is expecting a friend by a particular train.
A passenger steps out of the train bearing a superficial resemblance to his friend; in consequence
of which he falls into the error of false identification.

The delusions of the conjuror depend on a similar principle. The performer tells his audience
that he is about to do a certain thing, for example, take a number of animals out of a small
box which is incapable of holding them. The hearers, intent on what has been said, vividly
represent to themselves the action described. And in this way their attention becomes bribed,
so to speak, beforehand, and fails to notice the inconspicuous movements which would at once
clear up the mystery. Similarly with respect to the illusions which overtake people at spiritualist
séances. The intensity of the expectation of a particular kind of object excludes calm attention
to what really happens, and the slightest impressions which answer to signs of the object anticipated
are instantly seized by the mind and worked up into illusory perceptions.

It is to be noted that even when the impression cannot be made to tally exactly with the expectation,
the force of the latter often effects a grotesque confusion of the perception. If, for example,
a man goes into a familiar room in the dark in order to fetch something, and for a moment forgets
the particular door by which he has entered, his definite expectation of finding things in
a certain order may blend with the order of impressions experienced, producing for the moment
a most comical illusion as to the actual state of things.

When the degree of expectation is unusually great, it may suffice to produce something like
the counterfeit of a real sensation. This happens when the present circumstances are powerfully
suggestive of an immediate event. The effect is all the more powerful, moreover, in those cases
where the object or event expected is interesting or exciting, since here the mental image
gains in vividness through the emotional excitement attending it. Thus, if I am watching a
train off and know from all the signs that it is just about to start, I easily delude myself
into the conviction that it has begun to start, when it is really still.[53] An intense degree
of expectation may, in such cases, produce something indistinguishable from an actual sensation.
This effect is seen in such common experiences as that the sight of food makes the mouth of
a hungry man water; that the appearance of a surgical instrument produces a nascent sensation
of pain; and that a threatening movement, giving a vivid anticipation of tickling, begets a
feeling which closely approximates to the result of actual tickling.

One or two very striking instances of such imagined sensations are given by Dr. Carpenter.[54]
Here is one. An officer who superintended the exhuming of a coffin rendered necessary through
a suspicion of crime, declared that he already experienced the odour of decomposition, though
it was afterwards found that the coffin was empty.[55]

It is, of course, often difficult to say, in such cases as these, how far elements of actual
sensation co-operate in the production of the illusions. Thus, in the case just mentioned,
the odour of the earth may have been the starting-point in the illusion. In many cases, however,
an imaginative mind appears to be capable of transforming a vivid expectation into a nascent
stage of sensation. Thus, a mother thinking of her sick child in an adjoining room, and keenly
on the alert for its voice, will now and again fancy she really hears it when others hear nothing
at all.

Transition to Hallucination.

It is plain that in these cases illusion approaches to hallucination. Imagination, instead
of waiting on sensation, usurps its place and imitates its appearance. Such a "subjective"
sensation produced by a powerful expectation might, perhaps, by a stretch of language, be regarded
as an illusion, in the narrow sense, in so far as it depends on the suggestive force of a complete
set of external circumstances; on the other hand, it is clearly an hallucination in so far
as it is the production of the semblance of an external impression without any external agency
corresponding to this.

In the class of illusory expectations just considered the immediately present environment still
plays a part, though a much less direct part than that observable in the first large group
of illusions. We will now pass to a second mode of illusory expectation, where imagination
is still more detached from the present surroundings.

A common instance of this kind of expectation is the so-called "intuition," or presentiment;
that something is going to happen, which expectation has no basis in fact. It does not matter
whether the expectation has arisen by way of another's words or by way of personal inclinations.
A strong wish for a thing will, in an exalted state of mind, beget a vivid anticipation of
it. This subject will be touched on again under the Illusions of Belief. Here I am concerned
to point out that such presentiments are fertile sources of sense-illusion. The history of
Church miracles, visions, and the like amply illustrates the effect of a vivid anticipation
in falsifying the perceptions of external things.

In persons of a lively imagination any recent occupation of the mind with a certain kind of
mental image may suffice to beget something equivalent to a powerful mode of expectation. For
example, we are told by Dr. Tuke that on one occasion a lady, whose imagination had been dwelling
on the subject of drinking fountains, "thought she saw in a road a newly erected fountain,
and even distinguished an inscription upon it, namely, 'If any man thirst, let him come unto
Me, and drink.' She afterwards found that what she had actually seen was only a few scattered
stones."[56] In many cases there seems to be a temporary preternatural activity of the imagination
in certain directions, of which no very obvious explanation is discoverable. Thus, we sometimes
find our minds dwelling on some absent friend, without being able to give any reason for this
mental preoccupation. And in this way arise strong temporary leanings to illusory perception.
It may be said, indeed, that all unwonted activity of the imagination, however it arises, has
as its immediate result a temporary mode of expectation, definite or indefinite, which easily
confuses our perceptions of external things.

In proportion as this pre-existing imaginative impulse becomes more powerful, the amount of
actual impression necessary to transform the mental image into an illusory perception becomes
less; and, what is more important, this transformation of the internal image involves a larger
and larger displacement of the actual impression of the moment. A man whose mind is at the
time strongly possessed by one kind of image, will tend to project this outwards with hardly
any regard to the actual external circumstances.

This state of things is most completely illustrated in many of the grosser illusions of the
insane. Thus, when a patient takes any small objects, as pebbles, for gold and silver, under
the influence of the dominant idea of being a millionaire, it is obvious that external suggestion
has very little to do with the self-deception. The confusions into which the patient often
falls with respect to the persons before him show the same state of mind; for in many cases
there is no discoverable individual resemblance between the person actually present and the
person for whom he is taken.

It is evident that when illusion reaches this stage, it is scarcely distinguishable from what
is specially known as hallucination. As I have remarked in setting out, illusion and hallucination
shade one into the other much too gradually for us to draw any sharp line of demarcation between
them. And here we see that hallucination differs from illusion only in the proportion in which
the causes are present. When the internal imaginative impulse reaches a certain strength, it
becomes self-sufficient, or independent of any external impression.

This intimate relation between the extreme form of active illusion and hallucination may be
seen, too, by examining the physical conditions of each. As I have already remarked, active
illusion has for its physiological basis a state of sub-excitation, or an exceptional condition
of irritability in the structures engaged in the act of interpretative imagination. The greater
the degree of this irritability, the less will be the force of external stimulation needed
to produce the effect of excitation, and the more energetic will be the degree of this excitation.
Moreover, it is plain that this increase in the strength of the excitation will involve an
extension of the area of excitation till, by-and-by, the peripheral regions of the nervous
system may be involved just as in the case of external stimulation. This accounts for the gradual
displacement of the impression of the moment by the mental image. It follows that when the
irritability reaches a certain degree, the amount of external stimulus needed may become a
vanishing quantity, or the state of sub-excitation may of itself develop into one of full activity.

Hallucinations.

I do not propose to go very fully into the description and explanation of hallucinations here,
since they fall to a large extent under the category of distinctly pathological phenomena.
Yet our study of illusions would not be complete without a glance at this part of the subject.

Hallucination, by which I mean the projection of a mental image outwards when there is no external
agency answering to it, assumes one of two fairly distinct forms: it may present itself either
as a semblance of an external impression with the minimum amount of interpretation, or as a
counterfeit of a completely developed percept. Thus, a visual hallucination may assume the
aspect of a sensation of light or colour which we vaguely refer to a certain region of the
external world, or of a vision of some recognizable object. All of us frequently have incomplete
visual and auditory hallucinations of the first order, whereas the complete hallucinations
of the second order are comparatively rare. The first I shall call rudimentary, the second
developed, hallucinations.

Rudimentary hallucinations may have either a peripheral or a central origin. They may first
of all have their starting-point in those subjective sensations which, as we have seen, are
connected with certain processes set up in the peripheral regions of the nervous system. Or,
secondly, they may originate in a certain preternatural activity of the sensory centres, or
"sensorium," in what has been called by German physiologists an automatic excitation of the
central structures, which activity may probably diffuse itself downwards to the peripheral
regions of the nerves. Baillarger would call hallucinations of the former class "psycho-sensorial,"
those of the latter class purely "psychical," hallucinations.[57]

It is often a matter of great difficulty to determine which part of the nervous system is originally
concerned in these rudimentary hallucinations. It is probable that in normal life they are
most frequently due to peripheral disturbance. And it seems reasonable to suppose that where
the hallucination remains in this initial stage of a very incompletely interpreted visual or
auditory impression, whether in normal or abnormal life, its real physiological source is the
periphery. For the automatic excitation of the centres would pretty certainly issue in the
semblance of some definite, familiar variety of sense-impression which, moreover, as a part
of a complex state known as a percept, would instantly present itself as a completely formed
quasi-percept. In truth, we may pretty safely argue that if it is the centre which is directly
thrown into a state of activity, it will be thrown into the usual complex, that is to say,
perceptional, mode of activity.

Let us now turn to hallucinations properly so called, that is to say, completely developed
quasi-percepts. These commonly assume the form of visual or auditory hallucinations. Like the
incomplete hallucinations, they may have their starting-point either in some disturbance in
the peripheral regions of the nervous system or in the automatic activity of the central structures:
or, to use the language of Baillarger, we may say that they are either "psycho-sensorial" or
purely "psychical." A subjective visual sensation, arising from certain conditions in the retina
and connected portions of the optic nerve, may by chance resemble a familiar impression, and
so be at once interpreted as an effect of a particular external object. More frequently, however,
the automatic activity of the centres must be regarded, either in part or altogether, as the
physiological cause of the phenomenon. This is clearly the case when, on the subjective side,
the hallucination answers to a preceding energetic activity of the imagination, as in the case
of the visionary and the monomaniac. Sometimes, however, as we have seen, the hallucinatory
percept answers to previous prolonged acts of perception, leaving a kind of reverberation in
the structures concerned; and in this case it is obviously impossible to say whether the peripheral
or central regions (if either) have most to do with the hallucination.[58]

The classifications of the causes of hallucination to be met with in the works of pathologists,
bear out the distinction just drawn. Griesinger tells us (op. cit., pp. 94, 95) that the general
causes of hallucination are: (1) Local disease of the organ of sense; (2) a state of deep exhaustion
either of mind or of body; (3) morbid emotional states, such as fear; (4) outward calm and
stillness between sleeping and waking; and (5) the action of certain poisons, as haschisch,
opium, belladonna. The first cause points pretty distinctly to a peripheral origin, whereas
the others appear to refer mainly, if not exclusively, to central derangements. Excessive fatigue
appears to predispose the central structures to an abnormal kind of activity, and the same
effect may be brought about by emotional agitation and by the action of poisons. The fourth
case mentioned here, absence of external stimulation, would naturally raise the nervous structures
to an exceptional pitch of excitability. Such a condition would, moreover, prove favourable
to hallucination by blurring the distinction between mental image and actual impression.

Hallucinations of Normal Life.

In normal life, perfect hallucinations, in the strict sense as distinct from illusions, are
comparatively rare. Fully developed persistent hallucinations, as those of Nicolai, the Berlin
bookseller, and of Mrs. A----, the lady cited by Sir D. Brewster, in his Letters on Natural
Magic, point to the presence of incipient nervous disorder. In healthy life, on the other hand,
while everybody is familiar with subjective sensations such as flying spots, phosphenes, ringing
in the ears, few fall into the error of seeing or hearing distinct recognizable objects in
the absence of all external impressions. In the lives of eminent men we read of such phenomena
as very occasional events. Malebranche, for example, is said to have heard the voice of God
calling him. Descartes says that, after a long confinement, he was followed by an invisible
person, calling him to pursue his search for truth. Dr. Johnson narrates that he once heard
his absent mother calling him. Byron tells us that he was sometimes visited by spectres. Goethe
records that he once saw an exact counterpart of himself coming towards him. Sir Walter Scott
is said to have seen a phantom of the dead Byron. It is possible that all of us are liable
to momentary hallucinations at times of exceptional nervous exhaustion, though they are too
fugitive to excite our attention.

When not brought on by exhaustion or artificial means, the hallucinations of the sane have
their origin in a preternatural power of imagination. It is well known that this power can
be greatly improved by attention and cultivation. Mr. Galton's interesting inquiries into the
power of "visualizing" would appear to prove that many people can at will sport on the confines
of the phantom world of hallucination. There is good reason to think that imaginative children
tend to confuse mental images and percepts.[60]

The Hallucinations of Insanity.

The hallucinations of the insane are but a fuller manifestation of forces that we see at work
in normal life. Their characteristic is that they simulate the form of distinctly present objects,
the existence of which is not instantly contradicted by the actual surroundings of the moment.[61]
The hallucinations have their origin partly in subjective sensations, which are probably connected
with peripheral disturbances, partly and principally in central derangements.[62] These include
profound emotional changes, which affect the ruling mental tone, and exert a powerful influence
on the course of the mental images. The hallucinations of insanity are due to a projection
of mental images which have, owing to certain circumstances, gained a preternatural persistence
and vividness. Sometimes it is the images that have been dwelt on with passionate longing before
the disease, sometimes those which have grown most habitual through the mode of daily occupation,[63]
and sometimes those connected with some incident at or near the time of the commencement of
the disease.

In mental disease, auditory hallucinations play a part no less conspicuous than visual.[64]
Patients frequently complain of having their thoughts spoken to them, and it is not uncommon
for them to imagine that they are addressed by a number of voices at the same time.[65]

These auditory hallucinations offer a good opportunity for studying the gradual growth of centrally
originating hallucinations. In the early stages of the disease, the patient partly distinguishes
his representative from his preservative sounds. Thus, he talks of sermons being composed to
him in his head. He calls these "internal voices," or "voices of the soul." It is only when
the disease gains ground and the central irritability increases that these audible thoughts
become distinctly projected as external sounds into more or less definite regions of the environment.
And it is exceedingly curious to notice the different directions which patients give to these
sounds, referring them now to a quarter above the head, now to a region below the floor, and
so on.[66]

Range of Sense-Illusions.

And now let us glance back to see the path we have traversed. We set out with an account of
perfectly normal perception, and found, even here, in the projection of our sensations of colour,
sound, etc., into the environment or to the extremities of the organism, something which, from
the point of view of physical science, easily wears the appearance of an ingredient of illusion.

Waiving this, however, and taking the word illusion as commonly understood, we find that it
begins when the element of imagination no longer answers to a present reality or external fact
in any sense of this expression. In its lowest stages illusion closely counterfeits correct
perception in the balance of the direct factor, sensation, and the indirect factor, mental
reproduction or imagination. The degree of illusion increases in proportion as the imaginative
element gains in force relatively to the present impression; till, in the wild illusions of
the insane, the amount of actual impression becomes evanescent. When this point is reached,
the act of imagination shows itself as a purely creative process, or an hallucination.

While we may thus trace the progress of illusion towards hallucination by means of the gradual
increase in force and extent of the imaginative, or indirect, as opposed to the sensuous, or
direct, element in perception, we have found a second starting-point for this movement in the
mechanism of sensation, involving, as it does, the occasional production of "subjective sensations."
Such sensations constitute a border-land between the regions of illusion in the narrow sense,
and hallucination. In their simplest and least developed form they may be regarded, at least
in the case of hearing and sight, as partly hallucinatory; and they serve as a natural basis
for the construction of complete hallucinations, or hallucinatory percepts.

In these different ways, then, the slight, scarcely noticeable illusions of normal life lead
up to the most startling hallucinations of abnormal life. From the two poles of the higher
centres of attention and imagination on the one side, and the lower regions of nervous action
involved in sensation on the other side, issue forces which may, under certain circumstances,
develop into full hallucinatory percepts. Thus closely is healthy attached to morbid mental
life. There seems to be no sudden break between our most sober every-day recognitions of familiar
objects and the wildest hallucinations of the demented. As we pass from the former to the latter,
we find that there is never any abrupt transition, never any addition of perfectly new elements,
but only that the old elements go on combining in ever new proportions.

The connection between the illusory side of our life and insanity may be seen in another way.
All illusion has as its negative condition an interruption of the higher intellectual processes,
the due control of our mental representations by reflection and reason. In the case of passive
illusions, the error arises from our inability to subordinate the suggestion made by some feature
of the present impression to the result of a fuller inspection of the object before us, or
of a wider reflection on the past. In other words, our minds are dominated by the partial and
the particular, to the exclusion of the total or the general. In active illusions, again, the
powers of judgment and reflection, including those of calm perception itself, temporarily vacate
their throne in favour of imagination. And this same suspension of the higher intellectual
functions, the stupefaction of judgment and reflection made more complete and permanent, is
just what characterizes insanity.

We may, perhaps, express this point of connection between the illusions of normal life and
insanity by help of a physiological hypothesis. If the nervous system has been slowly built
up, during the course of human history, into its present complex form, it follows that those
nervous structures and connections which have to do with the higher intellectual processes,
or which represent the larger and more general relations of our experience, have been most
recently evolved. Consequently, they would be the least deeply organized, and so the least
stable; that is to say, the most liable to be thrown hors de combat. This is what happens temporarily
in the case of the sane, when the mind is held fast by an illusion. And, in states of insanity,
we see the process of nervous dissolution beginning with these same nervous structures, and
so taking the reverse order of the process of evolution.[67] And thus, we may say that throughout
the mental life of the most sane of us, these higher and more delicately balanced structures
are constantly in danger of being reduced to that state of inefficiency, which in its full
manifestation is mental disease.

Does this way of putting the subject seem alarming? Is it an appalling thought that our normal
mental life is thus intimately related to insanity, and graduates away into it by such fine
transitions? A moment's reflection will show that the case is not so bad as it seems. It is
well to remind ourselves that the brain is a delicately adjusted organ, which very easily gets
disturbed, and that the best of us are liable to become the victims of absurd illusion if we
habitually allow our imaginations to be overheated, whether by furious passion or by excessive
indulgence in the pleasures of day-dreaming, or in the intoxicating mysteries of spiritualist
séances. But if we take care to keep our heads cool and avoid unhealthy degrees of mental excitement,
we need not be very anxious on the ground of our liability to this kind of error. As I have
tried to show, our most frequent illusions are necessarily connected with something exceptional,
either in the organism or in the environment. That is to say, it is of the nature of illusion
in healthy conditions of body and mind to be something very occasional and relatively unimportant.
Our perceptions may be regarded as the reaction of the mind on the impressions borne in from
the external world, or as a process of adjustment of internal mental relations to external
physical relations. If this process is, in the main, a right one, we need not greatly trouble,
because it is not invariably so. We should accept the occasional failure of the intellectual
mechanism as an inseparable accompaniment of its general efficiency.

To this it must be added that many of the illusions described above can hardly be called cases
of non-adaptation at all, since they have no relation to the practical needs of life, and consequently
are, in a general way, unattended to. In other cases, again, namely, where the precise nature
of a present sensation, being practically an unimportant matter, is usually unattended to,
as in the instantaneous recognition of objects by the eye under changes of illumination, etc.,
the illusion is rather a part of the process of adaptation, since it is much more important
to recognize the permanent object signified by the sensation than the precise nature of the
present sensational "sign" itself.

Finally, it should never be forgotten that in normal states of mind there is always the possibility
of rectifying an illusion. What distinguishes abnormal from normal mental life is the persistent
occupation of the mind by certain ideas, so that there is no room for the salutary corrective
effect of reflection on the actual impression of the moment, by which we are wont to "orientate,"
or take our bearings as to the position of things about us. In sleep, and in certain artificially
produced states, much the same thing presents itself. Images become realities just because
they are not instantly recognized as such by a reference to the actual surroundings of the
moment. But in normal waking life this power of correction remains with us. We may not exercise
it, it is true, and thus the illusion will tend to become more or less persistent and recurring;
for the same law applies to true and to false perception: repetition makes the process easier.
But if we only choose to exert ourselves, we can always keep our illusions in a nascent or
imperfectly developed stage. This applies not only to those half-illusions into which we voluntarily
fall, but also to the more irresistible passive illusions, and those arising from an over-excited
imagination. Even persons subject to hallucinations, like Nicolai of Berlin, learn to recognize
the unreal character of these phantasms. On this point the following bit of autobiography from
the pen of Coleridge throws an interesting light. "A lady (he writes) once asked me if I believed
in ghosts and apparitions. I answered with truth and simplicity, No, madam, I have seen far
too many myself."[68] However irresistible our sense-illusions may be, so long as we are under
the sway of particular impressions or mental images, we can, when resolved to do so, undeceive
ourselves by carefully attending to the actual state of things about us. And in many cases,
when once the correction is made, the illusion seems an impossibility. By no effort of imagination
are we able to throw ourselves back into the illusory mental condition. So long as this power
of dispelling the illusion remains with us, we need not be alarmed at the number and variety
of the momentary misapprehensions to which we are liable.

CHAPTER VII.

DREAMS.

The phenomena of dreams may well seem at first sight to form a world of their own, having no
discoverable links of connection with the other facts of human experience. First of all, there
is the mystery of sleep, which quietly shuts all the avenues of sense and so isolates the mind
from contact with the world outside. To gaze at the motionless face of a sleeper temporarily
rapt from the life of sight, sound, and movement--which, being common to all, binds us together
in mutual recognition and social action--has always something awe-inspiring. This external
inaction, this torpor of sense and muscle, how unlike to the familiar waking life, with its
quick responsiveness and its overflowing energy! And then, if we look at dreams from the inside,
we seem to find but the reverse face of the mystery. How inexpressibly strange does the late
night-dream seem to a person on waking! He feels he has been seeing and hearing things no less
real than those of waking life; but things which belong to an unfamiliar world, an order of
sights and a sequence of events quite unlike those of waking experience; and he asks himself
in his perplexity where that once-visited region really lies, or by what magic power it was
suddenly and for a moment created for his vision. In truth, the very name of dream suggests
something remote and mysterious, and when we want to characterize some impression or scene
which by its passing strangeness filled us with wonder, we naturally call it dream-like.

Theories of Dreams.

The earliest theories respecting dreams illustrate very clearly this perception of the remoteness
of dream-life from waking experience. By the simple mind of primitive man this dream-world
is regarded as similar in its nature or structure to our common world, only lying remote from
this. The savage conceives that when he falls asleep, his second self leaves his familiar body
and journeys forth to unfamiliar regions, where it meets the departed second selves of his
dead ancestors, and so on. From this point of view, the experience of the night, though equal
in reality to that of the day, is passed in a wholly disconnected region.[69]

A second and more thoughtful view of dreams, marking a higher grade of intellectual culture,
is that these visions of the night are symbolic pictures unfolded to the inner eye of the soul
by some supernatural being. The dream-experience is now, in a sense, less real than it was
before, since the phantasms that wear the guise of objective realities are simply images spread
out to the spirit's gaze, or the direct utterance of a divine message. Still, this mysterious
contact of the mind with the supernatural is regarded as a fact, and so the dream assumes the
appearance of a higher order of experience. Its one point of attachment to the experience of
waking life lies in its symbolic function; for the common form which this supernatural view
assumes is that the dream is a dim prevision of coming events. Artemidorus, the great authority
on dream interpretation (oneirocritics) for the ancient world, actually defines a dream as
"a motion or fiction of the soul in a diverse form signifying either good or evil to come;"
and even a logician like Porphyry ascribes dreams to the influence of a good demon, who thereby
warns us of the evils which another and bad demon is preparing for us. The same mode of viewing
dreams is quite common to-day, and many who pride themselves on a certain intellectual culture,
and who imagine themselves to be free from the weakness of superstition, are apt to talk of
dreams as of something mysterious, if not distinctly ominous. Nor is it surprising that phenomena
which at first sight look so wild and lawless, should still pass for miraculous interruptions
of the natural order of events.[70]

Yet, in spite of this obvious and impressive element of the mysterious in dream-life, the scientific
impulse to illuminate the less known by the better known has long since begun to play on this
obscure subject. Even in the ancient world a writer might here and there be found, like Democritus
or Aristotle, who was bold enough to put forward a natural and physical explanation of dreams.
But it has been the work of modern science to provide something like an approximate solution
of the problem. The careful study of mental life in its intimate union with bodily operations,
and the comparison of dream-combinations with other products of the imagination, normal as
well as morbid, have gradually helped to dissolve a good part of the mystery which once hung
like an opaque mist about the subject. In this way, our dream-operations have been found to
have a much closer connection with our waking experiences than could be supposed on a superficial
view. The materials of our dreams are seen, when closely examined, to be drawn from our waking
experience. Our waking consciousness acts in numberless ways on our dreams, and these again
in unsuspected ways influence our waking mental life.[71] Not only so, it is found that the
quaint chaotic play of images in dreams illustrates mental processes and laws which are distinctly
observable in waking thought. Thus, for example, the apparent objective reality of these visions
has been accounted for, without the need of resorting to any supernatural agency, in the light
of a vast assemblage of facts gathered from the by-ways, so to speak, of waking mental life.
I need hardly add that I refer to the illusions of sense dealt with in the foregoing chapters.

Dreams are to a large extent the semblance of external perceptions. Other psychical phenomena,
as self-reflection, emotional activity, and so on, appear in dream-life, but they do so in
close connection with these quasi-perceptions. The name "vision," given by old writers to dreams,
sufficiently points out this close affinity of the mental phenomena to sense-perception; and
so far as science is concerned, they must be regarded as a peculiar variety of sense-illusion.
Hence the appropriateness of studying them in close connection with the illusions of perception
of the waking state. Though marked off by the presence of very exceptional physiological conditions,
they are largely intelligible by help of these physiological and psychological principles which
we have just been considering.

The State of Sleep.

The physiological explanation of dreams must, it is plain, set out with an account of the condition
of the organism known as sleep. While there is here much that is uncertain, there are some
things which are fairly well known. Recent physiological observation has gone to prove that
during sleep all the activities of the organism are appreciably lowered. Thus, for example,
according to Testa, the pulse falls by about one-fifth. This lowering of the organic functions
appears, under ordinary circumstances, to increase towards midnight, after which there is a
gradual rising.

The nervous system shares in this general depression of the vital activities. The circulation
being slower, the process of reparation and nutrition of the nerves is retarded, and so their
degree of excitability diminished. This is clearly seen in the condition of the peripheral
regions of the nervous system, including the sense-organs, which appear to be but very slightly
acted on by their customary stimuli.

The nervous centres must participate in this lethargy of the system. In other words, the activity
of the central substance is lowered, and the result of this is plainly seen in what is usually
thought of as the characteristic feature of sleep, namely, a transition from vigorous mental
activity or intense and clear consciousness, to comparative inactivity or faint and obscure
consciousness. The cause of this condition of the centres is supposed to be the same as that
of the torpidity of all the other organs in sleep, namely, the retardation of the circulation.
But, though there is no doubt as to this, the question of the proximate physiological conditions
of sleep is still far from being settled. Whether during sleep the blood-vessels of the brain
are fuller or less full than during waking, is still a moot point. Also the qualitative condition
of the blood in the cerebral vessels is still a matter of discussion.[72]

Since the effect of sleep is to lower central activity, the question naturally occurs whether
the nervous centres are ever rendered inactive to such an extent as to interrupt the continuity
of our conscious life. This question has been discussed from the point of view of the metaphysician,
of the psychologist, and of the physiologist, and in no case is perfect unanimity to be found.
The metaphysical question, whether the soul as a spiritual substance is capable of being wholly
inactive, or whether it is not in what seem the moments of profoundest unconsciousness partially
awake--the question so warmly discussed by the Cartesians, Leibnitz, etc.--need not detain us here.

Of more interest to us are the psychological and the physiological discussions. The former
seeks to settle the question by help of introspection and memory. On the one side, it is urged
against the theory of unbroken mental activity, that we remember so little of the lowered consciousness
of sleep.[73] To this it is replied that our forgetfulness of the contents of dream-consciousness,
even if this were unbroken, would be fully accounted for by the great dissimilarity between
dreaming and waking mental life. It is urged, moreover, on this side that a sudden rousing
of a man from sleep always discovers him in the act of dreaming, and that this goes to prove
the uniform connection of dreaming and sleeping. This argument, again, may be met by the assertion
that our sense of the duration of our dreams is found to be grossly erroneous; that, owing
to the rapid succession of the images, the realization of which would involve a long duration,
we enormously exaggerate the length of dreams in retrospection.[74] From this it is argued
that the dream which is recalled on our being suddenly awakened may have had its whole course
during the transition state of waking.

Again, the fact that a man may resolve, on going to sleep, to wake at a certain hour, has often
been cited in proof of the persistence of a degree of mental activity even in perfectly sound
sleep. The force of this consideration, however, has been explained away by saying that the
anticipation of rising at an unusual hour necessarily produces a slight amount of mental disquietude,
which is quite sufficient to prevent sound sleep, and therefore to expose the sleeper to the
rousing action of faint external stimuli.

While the purely psychological method is thus wholly inadequate to solve the question, physiological
reasoning appears also to be not perfectly conclusive. Many physiologists, not unnaturally
desirous of upsetting what they regard as a gratuitous metaphysical hypothesis, have pronounced
in favour of an absolutely dreamless or unconscious sleep. From the physiological point of
view, there is no mystery in a totally suspended mental activity. On the other hand, there
is much to be said on the opposite side, and perhaps it may be contended that the purely physiological
evidence rather points to the conclusion that central activity, however diminished during sleep,
always retains a minimum degree of intensity. At least, one would be disposed to argue in this
way from the analogy of the condition of the other functions of the organism during sleep.
Possibly this modicum of positive evidence may more than outweigh any slight presumption against
the doctrine of unbroken mental activity drawn from the negative circumstance that we remember
so little of our dream-life.[75]

Such being the state of physiological knowledge respecting the immediate conditions of sleep,
we cannot look for any certain information on the nature of that residual mode of cerebral
activity which manifests itself subjectively in dreams. It is evident, indeed, that this question
can only be fully answered when the condition of the brain as a whole during sleep is understood.
Meanwhile we must be content with vague hypotheses.

It may be said, for one thing, that during sleep the nervous substance as a whole is less irritable
than during waking hours. That is to say, a greater amount of stimulus is needed to produce
any conscious result.[76] This appears plainly enough in the case of the peripheral sense-organs.
Although these are not, as it is often supposed, wholly inactive during sleep, they certainly
require a more potent external stimulus to rouse them to action. And what applies to the peripheral
regions applies to the centres. In truth, it is clearly impossible to distinguish between the
diminished irritability of the peripheral and that of the central structures.

At first sight it seems contradictory to the above to say that stimuli which have little effect
on the centres of consciousness during waking life produce an appreciable result in sleep.
Nevertheless, it will be found that this is the case. Thus organic processes which scarcely
make themselves known to the mind in a waking state, may be shown to be the originators of
many of our dreams. This fact can only be explained on the physical side by saying that the
special cerebral activities engaged in an act of attention are greatly liberated during sleep
by the comparative quiescence of the external senses. These activities, by co-operating with
the faint results of the stimuli coming from the internal organs, serve very materially to
increase their effect.

Finally, it is to be observed that, while the centres thus respond with diminished energy to
peripheral stimuli, external and internal, they undergo a direct, or "automatic," mode of excitation,
being roused into activity independently of an incoming nervous impulse. This automatic stimulation
has been plausibly referred to the action of the products of decomposition accumulating in
the cerebral blood-vessels.[77] It is possible that there is something in the nature of this
stimulation to account for the force and vividness of its conscious results, that is to say,
of dreams.

The Dream State.

Let us now turn to the psychic side of these conditions, that is to say, to the general character
of the mental states known as dreams. It is plain that the closing of the avenues of the external
senses, which is the accompaniment of sleep, will make an immense difference in the mental
events of the time. Instead of drawing its knowledge from without, noting its bearings in relation
to the environment, the mind will now be given over to the play of internal imagination. The
activity of fancy will, it is plain, be unrestricted by collision with external fact. The internal
mental life will expand in free picturesque movement.

To say that in sleep the mind is given over to its own imaginings, is to say that the mental
life in these circumstances will reflect the individual temperament and mental history. For
the play of imagination at any time follows the lines of our past experience more closely than
would at first appear, and being coloured with emotion, will reflect the predominant emotional
impulses of the individual mind. Hence the saying of Heraclitus, that, while in waking we all
have a common world, in sleep we have each a world of our own.

This play of imagination in sleep is furthered by the peculiar attitude of attention. When
asleep the voluntary guidance of attention ceases; its direction is to a large extent determined
by the contents of the mind at the moment. Instead of holding the images and ideas, and combining
them according to some rational end, the attention relaxes its energies and succumbs to the
force of imagination. And thus, in sleep, just as in the condition of reverie or day-dreaming,
there is an abandonment of the fancy to its own wild ways.

It follows that the dream-state will not appear to the mind as one of fancy, but as one of
actual perception, and of contact with present reality. Dreams are clearly illusory, and, unlike
the illusions of waking life, are complete and persistent.[78] And the reason of this ought
now to be clear. First of all, the mind during sleep wants what M. Taine calls the corrective
of a present sensation. When awake under ordinary circumstances, any momentary illusion is
at once set right by a new act of orientation. The superior vividness of the external impression
cannot leave us in any doubt, when calm and self-possessed, whether our mental images answer
to present realities or not. On the other hand, when asleep, this reference to a fixed objective
standard is clearly impossible. Secondly, we may fairly argue that the mental images of sleep
approximate in character to external impressions. This they do to some extent in point of intensity,
for, in spite of the diminished excitability of the centres, the mode of stimulation which
occurs in sleep may, as I have hinted, involve an energetic cerebral action. And, however this
be, it is plain that the image will gain a preternatural force through the greatly narrowed
range of attention. When the mind of the sleeper is wholly possessed by an image or group of
images, and the attention kept tied down to these, there is a maximum reinforcement of the
images. But this is not all. When the attention is thus held captive by the image, it approximates
in character to an external impression in another way. In our waking state, when our powers
of volition are intact, the external impression is characterized by its fixity or its obdurate
resistance to our wishes. On the other hand, the mental image is fluent, accommodating, and
disappears and reappears according to the direction of our volitions. In sleep, through the
suspension of the higher voluntary power of attention, the mental image seems to lord it over
our minds just as the actual impression of waking life.

This much may suffice, perhaps, by way of a general description of the sleeping and dreaming
state. Other points will make themselves known after we have studied the contents and structure
of dreams in detail.

Dreams are commonly classified (e.g. by Wundt) with hallucinations, and this rightly, since,
as their common appellation of "vision" suggests, they are for the most part the semblance
of percepts in the absence of external impressions. At the same time, recent research goes
to show that in many dreams something answering to the "external impression" in waking perception
is the starting-point. Consequently, in order to be as accurate as possible, I shall divide
dreams into illusions (in the narrow sense) and hallucinations.

Dream-Illusions.

By dream-illusions I mean those dreams which set out from some peripheral nervous stimulation,
internal or external. That the organic processes of digestion, respiration, etc., act as stimuli
to the centres in sleep is well known. Thus, David Hartley assigns as the second great source
of dreams "states of the body."[79] But it is not so well known to what an extent our dreams
may be influenced by stimuli acting on the exterior sense-organs. Let us first glance at the
action of such external stimuli.

Action of External Stimuli.

During sleep the eyes are closed, and consequently the action of external light on the retina
impeded. Yet it is found that even under these circumstances any very bright light suddenly
introduced is capable of stimulating the optic fibres, and of affecting consciousness. The
most common form of this is the effect of bright moonlight, and of the early sun's rays. Krauss
tells a funny story of his having once, when twenty-six years old, caught himself, on waking,
in the act of stretching out his arms towards what his dream-fancy had pictured as the image
of his mistress. When fully awake, this image resolved itself into the full moon.[80] It is
not improbable, as Radestock remarks, that the rays of the sun or moon are answerable for many
of the dreams of celestial glory which persons of a highly religious temperament are said to
experience.

External sounds, when not sufficient to rouse the sleeper, easily incorporate themselves into
his dreams. The ticking of a watch, the stroke of a clock, the hum of an insect, the song of
a bird, the patter of rain, are common stimuli to the dream-phantasy. M. Alf. Maury tells us,
in his interesting account of the series of experiments to which he submitted himself in order
to ascertain the result of external stimulation on the mind during sleep, that when a pair
of tweezers was made to vibrate near his ear, he dreamt of bells, the tocsin, and the events
of June, 1848.[81] Most of us, probably, have gone through the experience of impolitely falling
asleep when some one was reading to us, and of having dream-images suggested by the sounds
that were still indistinctly heard. Scherner gives an amusing case of a youth who was permitted
to whisper his name into the ear of his obdurate mistress, the consequence of which was that
the lady contracted a habit of dreaming about him, which led to a felicitous change of feeling
on her part.[82]

The two lower senses, smell and taste, seem to play a less-important part in the production
of dream-illusions. Radestock says that the odour of flowers in a room easily leads to visual
images of hot-houses, perfumery shops, and so on; and it is probable that the contents of the
mouth may occasionally act as a stimulus to the organ of taste, and so give rise to corresponding
dreams. As Radestock observes, these lower sensations do not commonly make known their quality
to the sleeper's mind. They become transformed at once into visual, instead of into olfactory
or gustatory percepts. That is to say, the dreamer does not imagine himself smelling or tasting,
but seeing an object.

The contact of objects with the tactual organ is one of the best recognized causes of dreams.
M. Maury found that when his lips were tickled, his dream-fancy interpreted the impression
as of a pitch plaster being torn off his face. An unusual pressure on any part of the body,
as, for example, from contact with a fellow-sleeper, is known to give rise to a well-marked
variety of dream. Our own limbs may even appear as foreign bodies to our dream-imagination,
when through pressure they become partly paralyzed. Thus, on one occasion, I awoke from a miserable
dream, in which I felt sure I was grasping somebody's hand in bed, and I was racked by terrifying
conjectures as to who it might be. When fully awake, I discovered that I had been lying on
my right side, and clasping the wrist of the right arm (which had been rendered insensible
by the pressure of the body) with the left hand.

In close connection with these stimuli of pressure are those of muscular movement, whether
unimpeded or impeded. We need not enter into the difficult question how far the "muscular sense"
is connected with the activity of the motor nerves, and how far with sensory fibres attached
to the muscular or the adjacent tissues. Suffice it to say that an actual movement, a resistance
to an attempted movement, or a mere disposition to movement, whether consequent on a surplus
of motor energy or on a sensation of discomfort or fatigue in the part to be moved, somehow
or other makes itself known to our minds, even when we are deprived of the assistance of vision.
And these feelings of movement, impeded or unimpeded, are common initial impulses in our dream-experiences.
It is quite a mistake to suppose that dreams are built up out of the purely passive sensations
of sight and hearing. A close observation will show that in nearly every dream we imagine ourselves
either moving among the objects we perceive or striving to move when some weighty obstacle
obstructs us. All of us are familiar with the common forms of nightmare, in which we strive
hopelessly to flee from some menacing evil, and this dream-experience, it may be presumed,
frequently comes from a feeling of strain in the muscles, due to an awkward disposition of
the limbs during sleep. The common dream-illusion of falling down a vast abyss is plausibly
referred by Wundt to an involuntary extension of the foot of the sleeper.

Action of Internal Stimuli.

Let us now pass from the action of stimuli lying outside the organism, to that of stimuli lying
within the peripheral regions of the sense-organs. I have already spoken of the influence of
subjective sensations of sight, hearing, etc., on the illusions of waking life, and it is now
to be added that these sensations play an important part in our dream-life. Johannes Müller
lays great prominence on the part taken by ocular spectra in the production of dreams. As he
observes, the apparent rays of light, light-patches, mists of light, and so on, due to changes
of blood-pressure in the retina, only manifest themselves clearly when the eyes are closed
and the more powerful effect of the external stimulus cut off. These subjective spectra come
into prominence in the sleepy condition, giving rise to what M. Maury calls "hallucinations
hypnagogiques," and which he regards (after Gruithuisen) as the chaos out of which the dream-cosmos
is evolved.[83] They are pretty certainly the starting-point in those picturesque dreams in
which figure a number of bright objects, such as beautiful birds, butterflies, flowers, or angels.

That the visual images of our sleep do often involve the peripheral regions of the organ of
sight, seems to be proved by the singular fact that they sometimes persist after waking. Spinoza
and Jean Paul Richter both experienced this survival of dream-images. Still more pertinent
is the fact that the effects of retinal fatigue are producible by dream-images. Yet the rushing,
roaring sound caused by the circulation of the blood in the ear is, probably, a not uncommon
starting-point in dreams. With respect to subjective sensations of smell and taste, there is
little to be said. On the other hand, subjective sensations due to varying conditions in the
skin are a very frequent exciting cause of dreams. Variations in the state of tension of the
skin, brought about by alteration of position, changes in the character of the circulation,
the irradiation of heat to the skin or the loss of the same, chemical changes,--these are known
to give rise to a number of familiar sensations, including those of tickling, itching, burning,
creeping, and so on; and the effects of these sensations are distinctly traceable in our dreams.
For example, the exposure of a part of the body through a loss of the bed-clothes is a frequent
excitant of distressing dreams. A cold foot suggests that the sleeper is walking over snow
or ice. On the other hand, if the cold foot happens to touch a warm part of the body, the dream-fancy
constructs images of walking on burning lava, and so on.

These sensations of the skin naturally conduct us to the organic sensations as a whole; that
is to say, the feelings connected with the varying condition of the bodily organs. These include
the feelings which arise in connection with the processes of digestion, respiration, and circulation,
and the condition of various organs according to their state of nutrition, etc. During our
waking life these organic feelings coalesce for the most part, forming as the "vital sense"
an obscure background for our clear discriminative consciousness, and only come forward into
this region when very exceptional in character, as when respiration or digestion is impeded,
or when we make a special effort of attention to single them out.[85] When we are asleep, however,
and the avenues of external perception are closed, they assume greater prominence and distinctness.
The centres, no longer called upon to react on stimuli coming from without the organism, are
free to react on stimuli coming from its hidden recesses. So important a part, indeed, do these
organic feelings take in the dream-drama, that some writers are disposed to regard them as
the great, if not the exclusive, cause of dreams. Thus, Schopenhauer held that the excitants
of dreams are impressions received from the internal regions of the organism through the sympathetic
nervous system.[86]

It is hardly necessary, perhaps, to give many illustrations of the effect of such organic sensations
on our dreams. Among the most common provocatives of dreams are sensations connected with a
difficulty in breathing, due to the closeness of the air or to the pressure of the bed-clothes
on the mouth. J. Börner investigated the influence of these circumstances by covering with
the bed-clothes the mouth and a part of the nostrils of persons who were sound asleep. This
was followed by a protraction of the act of breathing, a reddening of the face, efforts to
throw off the clothes, etc. On being roused, the sleeper testified that he had experienced
a nightmare, in which a horrid animal seemed to be weighing him down.[87] Irregularity of the
heart's action is also a frequent cause of dreams. It is not improbable that the familiar dream-experience
of flying arises from disturbances of the respiratory and circulatory movements.

Again, the effects of indigestion, and more particularly stomachic derangement, on dreams are
too well known to require illustration. It may be enough to allude to the famous dream which
Hood traces to an excessive indulgence at supper. It is known that the varying condition of
the organs of secretion influences our dream-fancy in a number of ways.

Finally, it is to be observed that an injury done to any part of the organism is apt to give
rise to appropriate dream-images. In this way, very slight disturbances which would hardly
affect waking consciousness may make themselves felt during sleep. Thus, for example, an incipient
toothache has been known to suggest that the teeth are being extracted.[88]

It is worth observing that the interpretation of these various orders of sensations by the
imagination of the dreamer takes very different forms according to the person's character,
previous experience, ruling emotions, and so on. This is what is meant by saying that during
sleep every man has a world of his own, whereas, when awake, he shares in the common world
of perception.

Dream-Exaggeration.

It is to be noticed, further, that this interpretation of sensation during sleep is uniformly
a process of exaggeration.[89] The exciting causes of the feeling of discomfort, for example,
are always absurdly magnified. The reason of this seems to be that, owing to the condition
of the mind during sleep, the nature of the sensation is not clearly recognizable. Even in
the case of familiar external impressions, such as the sound of the striking of a clock, there
appears to be wanting that simple process of reaction by which, in a waking condition of the
attention, a sense-impression is instantly discriminated and classed. In sleep, as in the artificially
induced hypnotic condition, the slighter differences of quality among sensations are not clearly
recognized. The activity of the higher centres, which are concerned in the finer processes
of discrimination and classification, being greatly reduced, the impression may be said to
come before consciousness as something novel and unfamiliar. And just as we saw that in waking
life novel sensations agitate the mind, and so lead to an exaggerated mode of interpretation;
so here we see that what is unfamiliar disturbs the mind, rendering it incapable of calm attention
and just interpretation.

This failure to recognize the real nature of an impression is seen most conspicuously in the
case of the organic sensations. As I have remarked, these constitute for the most part, in
waking life, an undiscriminated mass of obscure feeling, of which we are only conscious as
the mental tone of the hour. And in the few instances in which we do attend to them separately,
whether through their exceptional intensity or in consequence of an extraordinary effort of
discriminative attention, we can only be said to perceive them, that is, recognize their local
origin, very vaguely. Hence, when asleep, these sensations get very oddly misinterpreted.

The localization of a bodily sensation in waking life means the combination of a tactual and
a visual image with the sensation. Thus, my recognition of a twinge of toothache as coming
from a certain tooth, involves representations of the active and passive sensations which touching
and looking at the tooth would yield me. That is to say, the feeling instantly calls up a compound
mental image exactly answering to a visual percept. This holds good in dream-interpretation
too; the interpretation is effected by means of a visual image. But since the feeling is only
very vaguely recognized, this visual image does not answer to the bodily part concerned. Instead
of this, the fancy of the dreamer constructs some visual image which bears a vague resemblance
to the proper one, and is generally, if not always, an exaggeration of this in point of extensive
magnitude, etc. For example, a sensation arising from pressure on the bladder, being dimly
connected with the presence of a fluid, calls up an image of a flood, and so on.

This mode of dream-interpretation has by some writers been erected into the typical mode, under
the name of dream-symbolism. Thus Scherner, in his interesting though somewhat fanciful work,
Das Leben des Traumes, contends that the various regions of the body regularly disclose themselves
to the dream-fancy under the symbol of a building or group of buildings; a pain in the head
calling up, for example, the image of spiders on the ceiling, intestinal sensations exciting
an image of a narrow alley, and so on. Such theories are clearly an exaggeration of the fact
that the localization of our bodily sensations during sleep is necessarily imperfect.[90]

In many cases the image called up bears on its objective side no discoverable resemblance to
that of the bodily region or the exciting cause of the sensation. Here the explanation must
be looked for in the subjective side of the sensation and mental image, that is to say, in
their emotional quality, as pleasurable or painful, distressing, quieting, etc. It is to be
observed, indeed, that in natural sleep, as in the condition known as hypnotism, while differences
of specific quality in the sense-impressions are lost, the broad difference of the pleasurable
and the painful is never lost. It is, in fact, the subjective emotional side of the sensation
that uniformly forces itself into consciousness. This being so, it follows that, speaking generally,
the sensations of sleep, both external and internal, or organic, will be interpreted by what
G.H. Lewes has called "an analogy of feeling;" that is to say, by means of a mental image having
some kindred emotional character or colouring.

Now, the analogy between the higher emotional and the bodily states is a very close one. A
sensation of obstruction in breathing has its exact analogue in a state of mental embarrassment,
a sensation of itching its counterpart in mental impatience, and so on. And since these emotional
experiences are deeper and fuller than the sensations, the tendency to exaggerate the nature
and causes of these last would naturally lead to an interpretation of them by help of these
experiences. In addition to this, the predominance of visual imagery in sleep would aid this
transformation of a bodily sensation into an emotional experience, since visual perceptions
have, as their accompaniments of pleasure and pain, not sensations, but emotions.[91]

Since in this vague interpretation of bodily sensation the actual impression is obscured, and
not taken up as an integral part into the percept, it is evident that we cannot, strictly speaking,
call the process an imitation of an act of perception, that is to say, an illusion. And since,
moreover, the visual image by which the sensation is thus displaced appears as a present object,
it would, of course, be allowable to speak of this as an hallucination. This substitution of
a more or less analogous visual image for that appropriate to the sensation forms, indeed,
a transition from dream-illusion, properly so called, to dream-hallucination.

Dream-Hallucinations.

On the physical side, these hallucinations answer to cerebral excitations which are central
or automatic, not depending on movements transmitted from the periphery of the nervous system.
Of these stimulations some appear to be direct, and due to unknown influences exerted by the
state of nutrition of the cerebral elements, or the action of the contents of the blood-vessels
on these elements.

Effects of Direct Central Stimulation.

That such action does prompt a large number of dream-images may be regarded as fairly certain.
First of all, it seems impossible to account for all the images of dream-fancy as secondary
phenomena connected by links of association with the foregoing classes of sensation. However
fine and invisible many of the threads which hold together our ideas may be, they will hardly
explain the profusion and picturesque variety of dream-imagery. Secondly, we are able in certain
cases to infer with a fair amount of certainty that a dream-image is due to such central stimulation.
The common occurrence that we dream of the more stirring events, the anxieties and enjoyments
of the preceding day, appears to show that when the cerebral elements are predisposed to a
certain kind of activity, as they are after having been engaged for some time in this particular
work, they are liable to be excited by some stimulus brought directly to bear on them during
sleep. And if this is so, it is not improbable that many of the apparently forgotten images
of persons and places which return with such vividness in dreams are excited by a mode of stimulation
which is for the greater part confined to sleep. I say "for the greater part," because even
in our indolent, listless moments of waking existence such seemingly forgotten ideas sometimes
return as though by a spontaneous movement of their own and by no discoverable play of association.

It may be well to add that this immediate revival of impressions previously received by the
brain includes not only the actual perceptions of waking life, but also the ideas derived from
others, the ideal fancies supplied by works of fiction, and even the images which our unaided
waking fancy is wont to shape for itself. Our daily conjectures as to the future, the communications
to us by others of their thoughts, hopes, and fears,--these give rise to numberless vague fugitive
images, any one of which may become distinctly revived in sleep.[92] This throws light on the
curious fact that we often dream of experiences and events quite unlike those of our individual
life. Thus, for example, the common construction by the dream-fancy of the experience of flight
in mid-air, and the creation of those weird forms which the terror of a nightmare is wont to
bring in its train, seem to point to the past action of waking fancy. To imagine one's self
flying when looking at a bird is probably a common action with all persons, at least in their
earlier years, and images of preternaturally horrible beings are apt to be supplied to most
of us some time during life by nurses or by books.

Indirect Central Stimulation.

Besides these direct central stimulations, there are others which, in contradistinction, may
be called indirect, depending on some previous excitation. These are, no doubt, the conditions
of a very large number of our dream-images. There must, of course, be some primary cerebral
excitation, whether that of a present peripheral stimulation, or that which has been termed
central and spontaneous; but when once this first link of the imaginative chain is supplied,
other links may be added in large numbers through the operation of the forces of association.
One may, indeed, safely say that the large proportion of the contents of every dream arise
in this way.

The very simplest type of dream excited by a present sensation contains these elements. To
take an example, I once dreamt, as a consequence of the loud barking of a dog, that a dog approached
me when lying down, and began to lick my face. Here the play of the associative forces was
apparent: a mere sensation of sound called up the appropriate visual image, this again the
representation of a characteristic action, and so on. So it is with the dreams whose first
impulse is some central or spontaneous excitation. A momentary sight of a face or even the
mention of a name during the preceding day may give the start to dream-activity; but all subsequent
members of the series of images owe their revival to a tension, so to speak, in the fine threads
which bind together, in so complicated a way, our impressions and ideas.

Among the psychic accompaniments of these central excitations visual images, as already hinted,
fill the most conspicuous place. Even auditory images, though by no means absent, are much
less numerous than visual. Indeed, when there are the conditions for the former, it sometimes
happens that the auditory effect transforms itself into a visual effect. An illustration of
this occurred in my own experience. Trying to fall asleep by means of the well-known device
of counting, I suddenly found myself losing my hold on the faint auditory effects, my imagination
transforming them into a visual spectacle, under the form of a path of light stretching away
from me, in which the numbers appeared under the grotesque form of visible objects, tumbling
along in glorious confusion.

Next to these visual phantasms, certain motor hallucinations seem to be most prominent in dreams.
By a motor hallucination, I mean the illusion that we are actually moving when there is no
peripheral excitation of the motor organ. Just as the centres concerned in passive sensation
are susceptible of central stimulation, so are the centres concerned in muscular sensation.
A mere impulse in the centres of motor innervation (if we assume these to be the central seat
of the muscular feelings) may suffice to give rise to a complete representation of a fully
executed movement. And thus in our sleep we seem to walk, ride, float, or fly.

The most common form of motor hallucination is probably the vocal. In the social encounters
which make up so much of our sleep-experience, we are wont to be very talkative. Now, perhaps,
we find ourselves zealously advocating some cause, now very fierce in denunciation, now very
amusing in witty repartee, and so on. This imagination of ourselves as speaking, as distinguished
from that of hearing others talking, must, it is clear, involve the excitation of the structures
engaged in the production of the muscular feelings which accompany vocal action, as much as,
if not more than, the auditory centres. And the frequency of this kind of dream-experience
may be explained, like that of visual imagery, by the habits of waking life. The speech impulse
is one of the most deeply rooted of all our impulses, and one which has been most frequently
exercised in waking life.

Combination of Dream-Elements.

It is commonly said that dreams are a grotesque dissolution of all order, a very chaos and
whirl of images without any discoverable connection. On the other hand, a few writers claim
for the mind in sleep a power of arranging and grouping its incongruous elements in definite
and even life-like pictures. Each of these views is correct within certain limits; that is
to say, there are dreams in which the strangest disorder seems to prevail, and others in which
one detects the action of a central control. Yet, speaking generally, sequences of dream-images
will be found to be determined by certain circumstances and laws, and so far not to be haphazard
or wholly chaotic. We have now to inquire into the laws of these successions; and, first of
all, we may ask how far the known laws of association, together with the peculiar conditions
of the sleeping state, are able to account for the various modes of dream-combination. We have
already regarded mental association as furnishing a large additional store of dream-imagery;
we have now to consider it as explaining the sequences and concatenations of our dream-elements.

Incoherence of Dreams.

First of all, then, let us look at the chaotic and apparently lawless side of dreaming, and
see whether any clue is discoverable to the centre of this labyrinth. In the case of all the
less elaborately ordered dreams, in which sights and sounds appear to succeed one another in
the wildest dance (which class of dreams probably belongs to the deeper stages of sleep), the
mind may with certainty be regarded as purely passive, and the mode of sequence may be referred
to the action of association complicated by the ever-recurring introduction of new initial
impulses, both peripheral and central. These are the dreams in which we are conscious of being
perfectly passive, either as spectators of a strange pageant, or as borne away by some apparently
extraneous force through a series of the most diverse experiences. The flux of images in these
dreams is very much the same as that in certain waking conditions, in which we relax attention,
both external and internal, and yield ourselves wholly to the spontaneous play of memory and fancy.

It is plain at a glance that the simultaneous concurrence of wholly disconnected initial impulses
will serve to impress a measure of disconnectedness on our dream-images. From widely remote
parts of the organism there come impressions which excite each its peculiar visual or other
image according as its local origin or its emotional tone is the more distinctly present to
consciousness. Now it is a subjective ocular sensation suggesting a bouquet of lovely flowers,
and close on its heels comes an impression from the organs of digestion suggesting all manner
of obstacles, and so our dream-fancy plunges from a vision of flowers to one of dreadful demons.

Let us now look at the way in which the laws of association working on the incongruous elements
thus cast up into our dream-consciousness, will serve to give a yet greater appearance of disorder
and confusion to our dream-combinations. According to these laws, any idea may, under certain
circumstances, call up another, if the corresponding impressions have only once occurred together,
or if the ideas have any degree of resemblance, or, finally, if only they stand in marked contrast
with one another. Any accidental coincidence of events, such as meeting a person at a particular
foreign resort, and any insignificant resemblance between objects, sounds, etc., may thus supply
a path, so to speak, from fact to dream-fancy.

In our waking states these innumerable paths of association are practically closed by the supreme
energy of the coherent groups of impressions furnished us from the world without through our
organs of sense, and also by the volitional control of internal thought in obedience to the
pressure of practical needs and desires. In dream-life both of these influences are withdrawn,
so that delicate threads of association, which have no chance of exerting their pull, so to
speak, in our waking states, now make known their hidden force. Little wonder, then, that the
filaments which bind together these dream-successions should escape detection, since even in
our waking thought we so often fail to see the connection which makes us pass in recollection
from a name to a visible scene or perhaps to an emotional vibration.

It is worth noting that the origin of an association is often to be looked for in one of those
momentary half-conscious acts of waking imagination to which reference has already been made.
A friend, for example, has been speaking to us of some common acquaintance, remarking on his
poor health. The language calls up, vaguely, a visual representation of the person sinking
in health and dying. An association will thus be formed between this person and the idea of
death. A night or two after, the image of this person somehow recurs to our dream-fancy, and
we straightway dream that we are looking at his corpse, watching his funeral, and so on. The
links of the chain which holds together these dream-images were really forged, in part, in
our waking hours, though the process was so rapid as to escape our attention. It may be added,
that in many cases where a juxtaposition of dream-images seems to have no basis in waking life,
careful reflection will occasionally bring to light some actual conjunction of impressions
so momentary as to have faded from our recollection.

We must remember, further, how great an apparent disorder will invade our imaginative dream-life
when the binding force of resemblance has unchecked play. In waking thought we have to connect
things according to their essential resemblances, classifying objects and events for purposes
of knowledge or action, according to their widest or their most important points of similarity.
In sleep, on the contrary, the slightest touch of resemblance may engage the mind and affect
the direction of fancy. In a sense we may be said, when dreaming, to discover mental affinities
between impressions and feelings, including those subtle links of emotional analogy of which
I have already spoken. This effect is well illustrated in a dream recorded by M. Maury, in
which he passed from one set of images to another through some similarity of names, as that
between corps and cor. Such a movement of fancy would, of course, be prevented in full waking
consciousness by a predominant attention to the meaning of the sounds.

It will be possible, I think, after a habit of analyzing one's dreams in the light of preceding
experience has been formed, to discover in a good proportion of cases some hidden force of
association which draws together the seemingly fortuitous concourse of our dream-atoms. That
we should expect to do so in every case is unreasonable, since, owing to the numberless fine
ramifications which belong to our familiar images, many of the paths of association followed
by our dream-fancy cannot be afterwards retraced.

To illustrate the odd way in which our images get tumbled together through the action of occult
association forces, I will record a dream of my own. I fancied I was at the house of a distinguished
literary acquaintance, at her usual reception hour. I expected the friends I was in the habit
of meeting there. Instead of this, I saw a number of commonly dressed people having tea. My
hostess came up and apologized for having asked me into this room. It was, she said, a tea-party
which she prepared for poor people at sixpence a head. After puzzling over this dream, I came
to the conclusion that the missing link was a verbal one. A lady who is a connection of my
friend, and bears the same name, assists her sister in a large kind of benevolent scheme. I
may add that I had not, so far as I could recollect, had occasion very recently to think of
this benevolent friend, but I had been thinking of my literary friend in connection with her
anticipated return to town.

In thus seeking to trace, amid the superficial chaos of dream-fancy, its hidden connections,
I make no pretence to explain why in any given case these particular paths of association should
be followed, and more particularly why a slender thread of association should exert a pull
where a stronger cord fails to do so. To account for this, it would be necessary to call in
the physiological hypothesis that among the nervous elements connected with a particular element,
a, already excited, some, as m and n, are at the moment, owing to the state of their nutrition
or their surrounding influences, more powerfully predisposed to activity than other elements,
as b and c.

The subject of association naturally conducts us to the second great problem in the theory
of dreams--the explanation of the order in which the various images group themselves in all
our more elaborate dreams.

Coherence of Dreams.

A fully developed dream is a complex of many distinct illusory sense-presentations: in this
respect it differs from the illusions of normal waking life, which are for the most part single
and isolated. And this complex of quasi-presentations appears somehow or other to fall together
into one whole scene or series of events, which, though it may be very incongruous and absurdly
impossible from a waking point of view, nevertheless makes a single object for the dreamer's
internal vision, and has a certain degree of artistic unity. This plastic force, which selects
and binds together our unconnected dream-images, has frequently been referred to as a mysterious
spiritual faculty, under the name of "creative fancy." Thus Cudworth remarks, in his Treatise
concerning Eternal and Immutable Morality: "That dreams are many times begotten by the phantastical
power of the soul itself ... is evident from the orderly connection and coherence of imaginations
which many times are continued in a long chain or series." One may find a good deal of mystical
writing on the nature and activity of this faculty, especially in German literature. The explanation
of this element of organic unity in dreams is, it may be safely said, the crux in the science
of dreams. That the laws of psychology help us to understand the sequences of dream-images,
we have seen. What we have now to ask is whether these laws throw any light on the orderly
grouping of the elements so brought up in consciousness in the form of a connected experience.

It is to be remarked at the outset that a singular kind of unity is sometimes given to our
dream-combinations by a total or partial coalescence of different images. The conditions of
such coalescence have been referred to already.[93] Simultaneous impressions or images will
always tend to coalesce with a force which varies directly as the degree of their similarity.
Sometimes this coalescence is instantaneous and not made known to consciousness. Thus, Radestock
suggests that if the mind of the sleeper is simultaneously invaded by an unpleasant sensation
arising out of some disturbance of the functions of the skin, and a subjective visual sensation,
the resulting mental image may be a combination of the two, under the form of a caterpillar
creeping over the bodily surface. And the coalescence may even be prepared by sub-conscious
operations of waking imagination. Thus, for example, I once spoke about the cheapness of hares
to a member of my family, who somewhat grimly suggested that they were London cats. I did not
dwell on the idea, but the following night I dreamt that I saw a big hybrid creature, half
hare, half cat, sniffing about a cottage. As it stood on its hind legs and took a piece of
food from a window-ledge, I became sure that it was a cat. Here it is plain that the cynical
observation of my relative had, at the moment, partially excited an image of this feline hare.
In some dreams, again, we may become aware of the process of coalescence, as when persons who
at one moment were seen to be distinct appear to our dream-fancy to run together in some third
person.

A very similar kind of unification takes place between sequent images under the form of transformation.
When two images follow one another closely, and have anything in common, they readily assume
the form of a transmutation. There is a sort of overlapping of the mental images, and so an
appearance of continuity produced in some respects analogous to that which arises in the wheel-of-life
(thaumatrope) class of sense-illusions. This would seem to account for the odd transformations
of personality which not unfrequently occur in dreams, in which a person appears, by a kind
of metempsychosis, to transfer his physical ego to another, and in which the dreamer's own
bodily phantom plays similar freaks. And the same principle probably explains those dissolving-view
effects which are so familiar an accompaniment of dream-scenery.[94]

But passing from this exceptional kind of unity in dreams, let us inquire how the heterogeneous
elements of our dream-fancy become ordered and arranged when they preserve their separate existence.
If we look closely at the structure of our more finished dreams, we find that the appearance
of harmony, connectedness, or order, may be given in one of two ways. There may, first of all,
be a subjective harmony, the various images being held together by an emotional thread. Or
there may, secondly, be an objective harmony, the parts of the dream, though answering to no
particular experiences of waking life, bearing a certain resemblance to our habitual modes
of experience. Let us inquire into the way in which each kind of order is brought about.

Lyrical Element in Dreams.

The only unity that belongs to many of our dreams is a subjective emotional unity. This is
the basis of harmony in lyrical poetry, where the succession of images turns mainly on their
emotional colouring. Thus, the images that float before the mind of the Poet Laureate, in his
In Memoriam, clearly have their link of connection in their common emotional tone, rather than
in any logical continuity. Dreaming has been likened to poetic composition, and certainly many
of our dreams are built upon a groundwork of lyrical feeling. They might be marked off, perhaps,
as our lyrical dreams.

The way in which this emotional force acts in these cases has already been hinted at. We have
seen that the analogy of feeling is a common link between dream-images. Now, if any shade of
feeling becomes fixed and dominant in the mind, it will tend to control all the images of the
time, allowing certain congruous ones to enter, and excluding others.[95] If, for example,
a feeling of distress occupies the mind, distressing images will have the advantage in the
struggle for existence which goes on in the world of mind as well as in that of matter. We
may say that attention, which is here wholly a passive process, is controlled by the emotion
of the time, and bent in the direction of congruent or harmonious images.

Now, a ground-tone of feeling of a certain complexion, answering to the sum of sensations arising
in connection with the different organic processes of the time, is a very frequent foundation
of our dream-structure. So frequent is it, indeed, that one might almost say there is no dream
in which it is not one great determining factor. The analysis of a very large number of dreams
has convinced me that traces of this influence are discoverable in a great majority.

I will give a simple illustration of this lyrical type of dream. A little girl of about four
years and three-quarters went with her parents to Switzerland. On their way she was taken to
the cathedral at Strasburg, and saw the celebrated clock strike, and the figures of the Apostles
come out, etc. In Switzerland she stayed at Gimmelwald, near Mürren, opposite a fine mass of
snowy mountains. One morning she told her father that she had had "such a lovely dream." She
fancied she was on the snow-peaks with her nurse, and walked on to the sky. There came out
of the sky "such beautiful things," just like the figures of the clock. This vision of celestial
things was clearly due to the fact that both the clock and the snow-peaks touching the blue
sky had powerfully excited her imagination, filling her with much the same kind of emotion,
namely, wonder, admiration, and longing to reach an inaccessible height.

Our feelings commonly have a gradual rise and fall, and the organic sensations which so often
constitute the emotional basis of our lyrical dreams generally have stages of increasing intensity.
Moreover, such a persistent ground-feeling becomes reinforced by the images which it sustains
in consciousness. Hence a certain crescendo character in our emotional dreams, or a gradual
rise to some culminating point or climax.

This phase of dream can be illustrated from the experience of the same little girl. When just
five years old, she was staying at Hampstead, near a church which struck the hours somewhat
loudly. One morning she related the following dream to her father (I use her own language).
The biggest bells in the world were ringing; when this was over the earth and houses began
to tumble to pieces; all the seas, rivers, and ponds flowed together, and covered all the land
with black water, as deep as in the sea where the ships sail; people were drowned; she herself
flew above the water, rising and falling, fearing to fall in; she then saw her mamma drowned,
and at last flew home to tell her papa. The gradual increase of alarm and distress expressed
in this dream, having its probable cause in the cumulative effect of the disturbing sound of
the church bells, must be patent to all.

The following rather comical dream illustrates quite as clearly the growth of a feeling of
irritation and vexation, probably connected with the development of some slightly discomposing
organic sensation. I dreamt I was unexpectedly called on to lecture to a class of young women,
on Herder. I began hesitatingly, with some vague generalities about the Augustan age of German
literature, referring to the three well-known names of Lessing, Schiller, and Goethe. Immediately
my sister, who suddenly appeared in the class, took me up, and said she thought there was a
fourth distinguished name belonging to this period. I was annoyed at the interruption, but
said, with a feeling of triumph, "I suppose you mean Wieland?" and then appealed to the class
whether there were not twenty persons who knew the names I had mentioned to one who knew Wieland's
name. Then the class became generally disorderly. My feeling of embarrassment gained in depth.
Finally, as a climax, several quite young girls, about ten years and less, came and joined
the class. The dream broke off abruptly as I was in the act of taking these children to the
wife of an old college tutor, to protest against their admission.

It is worth noting, perhaps, that in this evolution of feeling in dreaming the quality of the
emotion may vary within certain limits. One shade of feeling may be followed by another and
kindred shade, so that the whole dream still preserves a degree, though a less obvious degree,
of emotional unity. Thus, for example, a lady friend of mine once dreamt that she was in church,
listening to a well-known novelist of the more earnest sort, preaching. A wounded soldier was
brought in to be shot, because he was mortally wounded, and had distinguished himself by his
bravery. He was then shot, but not killed, and, rolling over in agony, exclaimed, "How long!"
The development of an extreme emotion of horror out of the vague feeling of awe which is associated
with a church, gives a curious interest to this dream.

Verisimilitude in Dreams.

I must not dwell longer on this emotional basis of dreams, but pass to the consideration of
the second and objective kind of unity which characterizes many of our more elaborate dream-performances.
In spite of all that is fitful and grotesque in dream-combination, it still preserves a distant
resemblance to our actual experience. Though no dream reproduces a particular incident or chain
of incidents in this experience, though the dream-fancy invariably transforms the particular
objects, relations, and events of waking life, it still makes the order of our daily experience
its prototype. It fashions its imaginary world on the model of the real. Thus, objects group
themselves in space, and act on one another conformably to these perceived space-relations;
events succeed one another in time, and are often seen to be connected; men act from more or
less intelligible motives, and so on. In this way, though the dream-fancy sets at nought the
particular relations of our experience, it respects the general and constant relations. How
are we to account for this?

It is said by certain philosophers that this superposition of the relations of space, time,
causation, etc., on the products of our dream-fancy is due to the fact that all experience
arises by a synthesis of mental forms with the chaotic matter of sense-impressions. These philosophers
allow, however, that all particular connections are determined by experience. Accordingly,
what we have to do here is to inquire how far this scientific method of explaining mental connections
by facts of experience will carry us. In other words, we have to ask what light can be thrown
on these tendencies of dream-imagination by ascertained psychological laws, and more particularly
by what are known as the laws of association.

These laws tell us that of two mental phenomena which occur together, each will tend to recall
the other whenever it happens to be revived. On the physiological side, this means that any
two parts of the nervous structures which have acted together become in some way connected,
so that when one part begins to work the other will tend to work also. But it is highly probable
that a particular structure acts in a great many different ways. Thus, it may be stimulated
by unlike modes of stimuli, or it may enter into very various connections with other structures.
What will follow from this? One consequence would appear to be that there will be developed
an organic connection between the two structures, of such a kind that whenever one is excited
the other will be disposed to act somehow and anyhow, even when there is nothing in the present
mode of activity of the first structure to determine the second to act in some one definite
way, in other words, when this mode of activity is, roughly speaking, novel.

Let me illustrate this effect in one of the simplest cases, that of the visual organ. If, when
walking out on a dark night, a few points in my retina are suddenly stimulated by rays of light,
and I recognize some luminous object in a corresponding direction, I am prepared to see something
above and below, to the right and to the left of this object. Why is this? There may from the
first have been a kind of innate understanding among contiguous optic fibres, predisposing
them to such concerted action. But however this be, this disposition would seem to have been
largely promoted by the fact that, throughout my experience, the stimulation of any retinal
point has been connected with that of adjoining points, either simultaneously by some second
object, or successively by the same object as the eye moves over it, or as the object itself
moves across the field of vision.

When, therefore, in sleep any part of the optic centres is excited in a particular way, and
the images thus arising have their corresponding loci in space assigned to them, there will
be a disposition to refer any other visual images which happen at the moment to arise in consciousness
to adjacent parts of space. The character of these other images will be determined by other
special conditions of the moment; their locality or position in space will be determined by
this organic connection. We may, perhaps, call these tendencies to concerted action of some
kind general associative dispositions.

Just as there are such dispositions to united action among various parts of one organ of sense,
so there may be among different organs, which are either connected originally in the infant
organism, or have communications opened up by frequent coexcitation of the two. Such links
there certainly are between the organs of taste and smell, and between the ear and the muscular
system in general, and more particularly the vocal organ.[96] A new odour often sets us asking
how the object would taste, and a series of sounds commonly disposes us to movement of some
kind or another. How far there may be finer threads of connection between other organs, such
as the eye and the ear, which do not betray themselves amid the stronger forces of waking mental
life, one cannot say. Whatever their number, it is plain that they will exert their influence
within the comparatively narrow limits of dream-life, serving to impress a certain character
on the images which happen to be called up by special circumstances, and giving to the combination
a slight measure of congruity. Thus, if I were dreaming that I heard some lively music, and
at the same time an image of a friend was anyhow excited, my dream-fancy might not improbably
represent this person as performing a sequence of rhythmic movements, such as those of riding,
dancing, etc.

A narrower field for these general associative dispositions may be found in the tendency, on
the reception of an impression of a given character, to look for a certain kind of second impression;
though the exact nature of this is unknown. Thus, for example, the form and colour of a new
flower suggest a scent, and the perception of a human form is accompanied by a vague representation
of vocal utterances. These general tendencies of association appear to me to be most potent
influences in our dream-life. The many strange human forms which float before our dream-fancy
are apt to talk, move, and behave like men and women in general, however little they resemble
their actual prototypes, and however little individual consistency of character is preserved
by each of them. Special conditions determine what they shall say or do; the general associative
disposition accounts for their saying or doing something.

We thus seem to find in the purely passive processes of association some ground for that degree
of natural coherence and rational order which our more mature dreams commonly possess. These
processes go far to explain, too, that odd mixture of rationality with improbability, of natural
order and incongruity, which characterizes our dream-combinations.

Rational Construction in Dreams.

Nevertheless, I quite agree with Herr Volkelt that association, even in the most extended meaning,
cannot explain all in the shaping of our dream-pictures. The "phantastical power" which Cudworth
talks about clearly includes something besides. It is an erroneous supposition that when we
are dreaming there is a complete suspension of the voluntary powers, and consequently an absence
of all direction of the intellectual processes. This supposition, which has been maintained
by numerous writers, from Dugald Stewart downwards, seems to be based on the fact that we frequently
find ourselves in dreams striving in vain to move the whole body or a limb. But this only shows,
as M. Maury remarks in the work already referred to, that our volitions are frustrated through
the inertia of our bodily organs, not that these volitions do not take place. In point of fact,
the dreamer, not to speak of the somnambulist, is often conscious of voluntarily going through
a series of actions. This exercise of volition is shown unmistakably in the well-known instances
of extraordinary intellectual achievements in dreams, as Condillac's composition of a part
of his Cours d'Études. No one would maintain that a result of this kind was possible in the
total absence of intellectual action carefully directed by the will. And something of this
same control shows itself in all our more fully developed dreams.

One manifestation of this voluntary activity in sleep is to be found in those efforts of attention
which not unfrequently occur. I have remarked that, speaking roughly and in relation to the
waking condition, the state of sleep is marked by a subjection of the powers of attention to
the force of the mental images present to consciousness. Yet something resembling an exercise
of voluntary attention sometimes happens in sleep. The intellectual feats just spoken of, unless,
indeed, they are referred to some mysterious unconscious mental operations, clearly involve
a measure of volitional guidance. All who dream frequently are occasionally aware on awaking
of having greatly exercised their attention on the images presented to them during sleep. I
myself am often able to recall an effort to see beautiful objects, which threatened to disappear
from my field of vision, or to catch faint receding tones of preternatural sweetness; and some
dreamers allege that they are able to retain a recollection of the feeling of strain connected
with such exercise of attention in sleep.

The main function of this voluntary attention in dream-life is seen in the selection of those
images which are to pass the threshold of clear consciousness. I have already spoken of a selective
action brought about by the ruling emotion. In this case, the attention is held captive by
the particular feeling of the moment. Also a selective process goes on in the case of the action
of those associative dispositions just referred to. But in each of these cases the action of
selective attention is comparatively involuntary, passive, and even unconscious, not having
anything of the character of a conscious striving to compass some end. Besides this comparatively
passive play of selective attention, there is an active play, in which there is a conscious
wish to gain an end; in other words, the operation of a definite motive. This motive may be
described as an intellectual impulse to connect and harmonize what is present to the mind.
The voluntary kind of selection includes and transcends each of the involuntary kinds. It has
as its result an imitation of that order which is brought about by what I have called the associative
dispositions, only it consciously aims at this result. And it is a process controlled by a
feeling, namely, the intellectual sentiment of consistency, which is not a mode of emotional
excitement enthralling the will, but a calm motive, guiding the activities of attention. It
thus bears somewhat the same relation to the emotional selection already spoken of, as dramatic
creation bears to lyrical composition.

This process of striving to seize some connecting link, or thread of order, is illustrated
whenever, in waking life, we are suddenly brought face to face with an unfamiliar scene. When
taken into a factory, we strive to arrange the bewildering chaos of visual impressions under
some scheme, by help of which we are said to understand the scene. So, if on entering a room
we are plunged in medias res of a lively conversation, we strive to find a clue to the discussion.
Whenever the meaning of a scene is not at once clear, and especially whenever there is an appearance
of confusion in it, we are conscious of a painful feeling of perplexity, which acts as a strong
motive to ever-renewed attention.[97]

In touching on this intellectual impulse to connect the disconnected, we are, it is plain,
approaching the question of the very foundations of our intellectual structure. That there
is this impulse firmly rooted in the mature mind nobody can doubt; and that it manifests itself
in early life in the child's recurring "Why?" is equally clear. But how we are to account for
it, whether it is to be viewed as a mere result of the play of associated fragments of experience,
or as something involved in the very process of the association of ideas itself, is a question
into which I cannot here enter.

What I am here concerned to show is that the search for consistency and connection in the manifold
impressions of the moment is a deeply rooted habit of the mind, and one which is retained in
a measure during sleep. When, in this state, our minds are invaded by a motley crowd of unrelated
images, there results a disagreeable sense of confusion; and this feeling acts as a motive
to the attention to sift out those products of the dream-fancy which may be made to cohere.
When once the foundations of a dream-action are laid, new images must to some extent fit in
with this; and here there is room for the exercise of a distinct impulse to order the chaotic
elements of dream-fancy in certain forms. The perception of any possible relation between one
of the crowd of new images ever surging above the level of obscure consciousness, and the old
group at once serves to detain it. The concentration of attention on it, in obedience to this
impulse to seek for an intelligible order, at once intensifies it and fixes it, incorporating
it into the series of dream-pictures.

Here is a dream which appears to illustrate this impulse to seek an intelligible order in the
confused and disorderly. After being occupied with correcting the proofs of my volume on Pessimism,
I dreamt that my book was handed to me by my publisher, fully illustrated with coloured pictures.
The frontispiece represented the fantastic figure of a man gesticulating in front of a ship,
from which he appeared to have just stepped. My publisher told me it was meant for Hamlet,
and I immediately reflected that this character had been selected as a concrete example of
the pessimistic tendency. I may add that, on awaking, I was distinctly aware of having felt
puzzled when dreaming, and of having striven to read a meaning into the dream.

The rationale of this dream seems to me to be somewhat as follows. The image of the completed
volume represented, of course, a recurring anticipatory image of waking life. The coloured
plates were due probably to subjective optical sensations simultaneously excited, which were
made to fit in (with or without an effort of voluntary attention) with the image of the book
under the form of illustrations. But this stage of coherency did not satisfy the mind, which,
still partly confused by the incongruity of coloured plates in a philosophic work, looked for
a closer connection. The image of Hamlet was naturally suggested in connection with pessimism.
The effort to discover a meaning in the pictures led to the fusion of this image with one of
the subjective spectra, and in this way the idea of a Hamlet frontispiece probably arose.

The whole process of dream-construction is clearly illustrated in a curious dream recorded
by Professor Wundt.[98] Before the house is a funeral procession: it is the burial of a friend,
who has in reality been dead for some time past. The wife of the deceased bids him and an acquaintance
who happens to be with him go to the other side of the street and join the procession. After
she has gone away, his companion remarks to him, "She only said that because the cholera rages
over yonder, and she wants to keep this side of the street to herself." Then comes an attempt
to flee from the region of the cholera. Returning to his house, he finds the procession gone,
but the street strewn with rich nosegays; and he further observes crowds of men who seem to
be funeral attendants, and who, like himself, are hastening to join the procession. These are,
oddly enough, dressed in red. When hurrying on, it occurs to him that he has forgotten to take
a wreath for the coffin. Then he wakes up with beating of the heart.

The sources of this dream are, according to Wundt, as follows. First of all, he had, on the
previous day, met the funeral procession of an acquaintance. Again, he had read of cholera
breaking out in a certain town. Once more, he had talked about the particular lady with this
friend, who had narrated facts which clearly proved her selfishness. The hastening to flee
from the infected neighbourhood and to overtake the procession was prompted by the sensation
of heart-beating. Finally, the crowd of red bier-followers, and the profusion of nosegays,
owed their origin to subjective visual sensations, the "light-chaos" which often appears in
the dark.

Let us now see for a moment how these various elements may have become fused into a connected
chain of events. First of all, it is clear that this dream is built up on a foundation of a
gloomy tone of feeling, arising, as it would seem, from an irregularity of the heart's action.
Secondly, it owes its special structure and its air of a connected sequence of events, to those
tendencies, passive and active, to order the chaotic of which I have been speaking. Let us
try to trace this out in detail.

To begin with, we may suppose that the image of the procession occupies the dreamer's mind.
From quite another source the image of the lady enters consciousness, bringing with it that
of her deceased husband and of the friend who has recently been talking about her. These new
elements adapt themselves to the scene, partly by the passive mechanism of associative dispositions,
and partly, perhaps, by the activity of voluntary selection. Thus, the idea of the lady's husband
would naturally recall the fact of his death, and this would fall in with the pre-existing
scene under the form of the idea that he is the person who is now being buried. The next step
is very interesting. The image of the lady is associated with the idea of selfish motives.
This would tend to suggest a variety of actions, but the one which becomes a factor of the
dream is that which is specially adapted to the pre-existing representations, namely, of the
procession on the further side of the street, and the cholera (which last, like the image of
the funeral, is, we may suppose, due to an independent central excitation). That is to say,
the request of the lady, and its interpretation, are a resultant of a number of adaptative
or assimilative actions, under the sway of a strong desire to connect the disconnected, and
a lively activity of attention. Once more, the feeling of oppression of the heart, and the
subjective stimulation of the optic nerve, might suggest numberless images besides those of
anxious flight and of red-clad men and nosegays; they suggest these, and not others, in this
particular case, because of the co-operation of the impulse of consistency, which, setting
out with the pre-existing mental images, selects from among many tendencies of reproduction
those which happen to chime in with the scene.

The Nature of Dream-Intelligence.

It must not be supposed that this process of welding together the chaotic materials of our
dreams is ever carried out with anything like the clear rational purpose of which we are conscious
when seeking, in waking life, to comprehend some bewildering spectacle. At best it is a vague
longing, and this longing, it may be added, is soon satisfied. There is, indeed, something,
almost pathetic in the facility with which the dreamer's mind can be pacified with the least
appearance of a connection. Just as a child's importunate "Why?" is often silenced by a ridiculous
caricature of an explanation, so the dreamer's intelligence is freed from its distress by the
least semblance of a uniting order.

It thus remains true with respect even to our most coherent dreams, that there is a complete
suspension, or at least a considerable retardation, of the highest operations of judgment and
thought; also a great enfeeblement, to say the least of it, of those sentiments such as the
feeling of consistency and the sense of the absurd which are so intimately connected with these
higher intellectual operations.

In order to illustrate how oddly our seemingly rational dreams caricature the operations of
waking thought, I may, perhaps, be allowed to record two of my own dreams, of which I took
careful note at the time.

On the first occasion I went "in my dream" to the "Stores" in August, and found the place empty.
A shopman brought me some large fowls. I asked their price, and he answered, "Tenpence a pound."
I then asked their weight, so as to get an idea of their total cost, and he replied, "Forty
pounds." Not in the least surprised, I proceeded to calculate their cost: 40x10=400÷12=33-1/3.
But, oddly enough, I took this quotient as pence, just as though I had not already divided
by 12, and so made the cost of a fowl to be 2s. 9d., which seemed to me a fair enough price.

In my second dream I was at Cambridge, among a lot of undergraduates. I saw a coach drive up
with six horses. Three undergraduates got out of the coach. I asked them why they had so many
horses, and they said, "Because of the luggage." I then said, "The luggage is much more than
the undergraduates. Can you tell me how to express this in mathematical symbols? This is the
way: if x is the weight of an undergraduate, then x + x.n represents the weight of an undergraduate
and his luggage together." I noticed that this sally was received with evident enjoyment.[99]

We may say, then, that the structure of our dreams, equally with the fact of their completely
illusory character, points to the conclusion that during sleep, just as in the moments of illusion
in waking life, there is a deterioration of our intellectual life. The highest intellectual
activities answering to the least stable nervous connections are impeded, and what of intellect
remains corresponds to the most deeply organized connections.

In this way, our dream-life touches that childish condition of the intelligence which marks
the decadence of old age and the encroachments of mental disease. The parallelism between dreams
and insanity has been pointed out by most writers on the subject. Kant observed that the madman
is a dreamer awake, and more recently Wundt has remarked that, when asleep, we "can experience
nearly all the phenomena which meet us in lunatic asylums." The grotesqueness of the combinations,
the lack of all judgment as to consistency, fitness, and probability, are common characteristics
of the short night-dream of the healthy and the long day-dream of the insane.[100]

But one great difference marks off the two domains. When dreaming, we are still sane, and shall
soon prove our sanity. After all, the dream of the sleeper is corrected, if not so rapidly
as the illusion of the healthy waker. As soon as the familiar stimuli of light and sound set
the peripheral sense-organs in activity, and call back the nervous system to its complete round
of healthy action, the illusion disappears, and we smile at our alarms and agonies, saying,
"Behold, it was a dream!"

On the practical side, the illusions and hallucinations of sleep must be regarded as comparatively
harmless. The sleeper, in healthy conditions of sleep, ceases to be an agent, and the illusions
which enthral his brain have no evil practical consequences. They may, no doubt, as we shall
see in a future chapter, occasionally lead to a subsequent confusion of fiction and reality
in waking recollection. But with the exception of this, their worst effect is probably the
lingering sense of discomfort which a "nasty dream" sometimes leaves with us, though this may
be balanced by the reverberations of happy dream-emotions which sometimes follow us through
the day. And however this be, it is plain that any disadvantages thus arising are more than
made good by the consideration that our liability to these nocturnal illusions is connected
with the need of that periodic recuperation of the higher nervous structures which is a prime
condition of a vigorous intellectual activity, and so of a triumph over illusion during waking
life.

For these reasons dreams may properly be classed with the illusions of normal or healthy life,
rather than with those of disease. They certainly lie nearer this region than the very similar
illusions of the somnambulist, which with respect to their origin appear to be more distinctly
connected with a pathological condition of the nervous system, and which, with respect to their
practical consequences may easily prove so disastrous.

After-Dreams.

In concluding this account of dreams, I would call attention to the importance of the transition
states between sleeping and waking, in relation to the production of sense-illusion. And this
point may be touched on here all the more appropriately, since it helps to bring out the close
relation between waking and sleeping illusion. The mind does not pass suddenly and at a bound
from the condition of dream-fancy to that of waking perception. I have already had occasion
to touch on the "hypnagogic state," that condition of somnolence or "sleepiness" in which external
impressions cease to act, the internal attention is relaxed, and the weird imagery of sleep
begins to unfold itself. And just as there is this anticipation of dream-hallucination in the
presomnial condition, so there is the survival of it in the postsomnial condition.

If one reflects how many ghosts and other miraculous apparitions are seen at night, and when
the mind is in a more or less somnolent condition, the idea is forcibly suggested that a good
proportion of these visions are the débris of dreams. In some cases, indeed, as that of Spinoza,
already referred to, the hallucination (in Spinoza's case that of "a scurvy black Brazilian")
is recognized by the subject himself as a dream-image.[101] I am indebted to Mr. W.H. Pollock
for a fact which curiously illustrates the position here adopted. A lady was staying at a country
house.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE.

THE HYPNOTIC CONDITION.

I have not in this chapter discussed the relation of dreaming to hypnotism, or the state of
artificially produced quasi-sleep, because the nature of this last is still but very imperfectly
understood. In this condition, which is induced in a number of ways by keeping the attention
fixed on some non-exciting object, and by weak continuous and monotonous stimulation, as stroking
the skin, the patient can be made to act conformably to the verbal or other suggestion of the
operator, or to the bodily position which he is made to assume. Thus, for example, if a glass
containing ink is given to him, with the command to drink, he proceeds to drink. If his hands
are folded, he proceeds to act as if he were in church, and so on.

Braid, the writer who did so much to get at the facts of hypnotism, and Dr. Carpenter who has
helped to make known Braid's careful researches, regard the actions of the hypnotized subject
as analogous to ideomotor movements; that is to say, the movements due to the tendency of an
idea to act itself out apart from volition. On the other hand, one of the latest inquirers
into the subject, Professor Heidenhain, of Breslau, appears to regard these actions as the
outcome of "unconscious perceptions" (Animal Magnetism, English translation, p. 43, etc.).

In the absence of certain knowledge, it seems allowable to argue from the analogy of natural
sleep that the actions of the hypnotized patient are accompanied with the lower forms of consciousness,
including sensation and perception, and that they involve dream-like hallucinations respecting
the external circumstances of the moment. Regarding them in this light, the points of resemblance
between hypnotism and dreaming are numerous and striking. Thus, Dr. Heidenhain tells us that
the threshold or liminal value of stimulation is lowered just as in ordinary sleep sense-activity
as a whole is lowered. According to Professor Weinhold, the hypnotic condition begins in a
gradual loss of taste, touch, and the sense of temperature; then sight is gradually impaired,
while hearing remains throughout the least interfered with.[102] In this way, the mind of the
patient is largely cut off from the external world, as in sleep, and the power of orientation
is lost. Moreover, there are all the conditions present, both positive and negative, for the
hallucinatory transformation of mental images into percepts just as in natural sleep. Thus,
the higher centres connected with the operations of reflection and reasoning are thrown hors
de combat or, as Dr. Heidenhain has it, "inhibited."

The condition of hypnotism is marked off from that of natural sleep, first of all, by the fact
that the accompanying hallucinations are wholly due to external suggestion (including the effects
of bodily posture). Dreams may, as we have seen, be very faintly modified by external influences,
but during sleep there is nothing answering to the perfect control which the operator exercises
over the hypnotized subject. The largest quantity of our "dream-stuff" comes, as we have seen,
from within and not from without the organism. And this fact accounts for the chief characteristic
difference between the natural and the hypnotic dream. The former is complex, consisting of
crowds of images, and continually changing: the latter is simple, limited, and persistent.
As Braid remarks, the peculiarity of hypnotism is that the attention is concentrated on a remarkably
narrow field of mental images and ideas. So long as a particular bodily posture is assumed,
so long does the corresponding illusion endure. One result of this, in connection with that
impairing of sensibility already referred to, is the scope for a curious overriding of sense-impressions
by the dominant illusory percept, a process that we have seen illustrated in the active sense-illusions
of waking life. Thus, if salt water is tasted and the patient is told that it is beer, he complains
that it is sour.

In being thus in a certain rapport, though so limited and unintelligent a rapport, with the
external world, the mind of the hypnotized patient would appear to be nearer the condition
of waking illusion than is the mind of the dreamer. It must be remembered, however, and this
is the second point of difference between dreaming and hypnotism, that the hypnotized subject
tends to act out his hallucinations. His quasi-percepts are wont to transform themselves into
actions with a degree of force of which we see no traces in ordinary sleep. Why there should
be this greater activity of the motor organs in the one condition than in the other, seems
to be a point as yet unexplained. All sense-impressions and percepts are doubtless accompanied
by some degree of impulse to movement, though, for some reason or another, in natural and healthy
sleep these impulses are restricted to the stage of faint nascent stirrings of motor activity
which hardly betray themselves externally. This difference, involving a great difference in
the possible practical consequences of the two conditions of natural and hypnotic sleep, clearly
serves to bring the latter condition nearer to that of insanity than the former condition is
brought. A strong susceptibility to the hypnotic influence, such as Dr. Heidenhain describes,
might, indeed, easily prove a very serious want of "adaptation of internal to external relations,"
whereas a tendency to dreaming would hardly prove a maladaptation at all.

CHAPTER VIII.

ILLUSIONS OF INTROSPECTION.

We have now, perhaps, sufficiently reviewed sense-illusions, both of waking life and of sleep.
And having roughly classified them according to their structure and origin, we are ready to
go forwards and inquire whether the theory thus reached can be applied to other forms of illusory
error. And here we are compelled to inquire at the outset if anything analogous to sense-illusion
is to be found in that other great region of presentative cognition usually marked off from
external perception as internal perception, self-reflection, or introspection.

Illusions of Introspection defined.

This inquiry naturally sets out with the question: What is meant by introspection? This cannot
be better defined, perhaps, than by saying that it is the mind's immediate reflective cognition
of its own states as such.

In one sense, of course, everything we know may be called a mental state, actual or imagined.
Thus, a sense-impression is known, exactly like any other feeling of the mind, as a mental
phenomenon or mental modification. Yet we do not usually speak of introspectively recognizing
a sensation. Our sense-impressions are marked off from all other feelings by having an objective
character, that is to say, an immediate relation to the external world, so that in attending
to one of them our minds pass away from themselves in what Professor Bain calls the attitude
of objective regard. Introspection is confined to feelings which want this intimate connection
with the external region, and includes sensation only so far as it is viewed apart from external
objects and on its mental side as a feeling, a process which is next to impossible where the
sensation has little emotional colour, as in the case of an ordinary sensation of sight or
of articulate sound.

This being so, errors of introspection, supposing such to be found, will in the main be sufficiently
distinguished from those of perception. Even an hallucination of sense, whether setting out
from a subjective sensation or not, always contains the semblance of a sense-impression, and
so would not be correctly classed with errors of introspection.

Just as introspection must be marked off from perception, so must it be distinguished from
memory. It may be contended that, strictly speaking, all introspection is retrospection, since
even in attending to a present feeling the mind is reflectively representing to itself the
immediately preceding momentary experience of that feeling. Yet the adoption of this view does
not hinder us from drawing a broad distinction between acts of introspection and acts of memory.
Introspection must be regarded as confined to the knowledge of immediately antecedent mental
states with reference to which, no error of memory can be supposed to arise.

It follows from this that an illusion of introspection could only be found in connection with
the apprehension of present or immediately antecedent mental states. On the other hand, any
illusions connected with the consciousness of personal continuity and identity would fall rather
under the class of mnemonic than that of introspective error.

Once more, introspection must be carefully distinguished from what I have called belief. Some
of our beliefs may be found to grow out of and be compounded of a number of introspections.
Thus, my conception of my own character, or my psychological conception of mind as a whole,
may be seen to arise by a combination of the results of a number of acts of introspection.
Yet, supposing this to be so, we must still distinguish between the single presentative act
of introspection and the representative belief growing out of it.

It follows from this that, though an error of the latter sort might conceivably have its origin
in one of the former; though, for example, a man's illusory opinion of himself might be found
to involve errors of introspection, yet the two kinds of illusion would be sufficiently unlike.
The latter would be a simple presentative error, the former a compound representative error.

Finally, in order to complete this preliminary demarcation of our subject-matter, it is necessary
to distinguish between an introspection (apparent or real) of a feeling or idea, and a process
of inference based on this feeling. The term introspective knowledge must, it is plain, be
confined to what is or appears to be in the mind at the moment of inspection.

By observing this distinction, we are in a position to mark off an illusion of introspection
from a fallacy of introspection. The former differs from the latter in the absence of anything
like a conscious process of inference. Thus, if we suppose that the derivation by Descartes
of the fact of the existence of God from his possession of the idea to be erroneous, such a
consciously performed act of reasoning would constitute a fallacy rather than an illusion of
introspection.

We may, then, roughly define an illusion of introspection as an error involved in the apprehension
of the contents of the mind at any moment. If we mistake the quality or degree of a feeling
or the structure of a complex mass of feeling, or if we confuse what is actually present to
the mind with some inference based on this, we may be said to fall into an illusion of introspection.

But here the question will certainly be raised: How can we conceive the mind erring as to the
nature of its present contents; and what is to determine, if not my immediate act of introspection,
what is present in my mind at any moment? Indeed, to raise the possibility of error in introspection
seems to do away with the certainty of presentative knowledge.

If, however, the reader will recall what was said in an earlier chapter about the possibility
of error in recognizing the quality of a sense-impression, he will be prepared for a similar
possibility here. What we are accustomed to call a purely presentative cognition is, in truth,
partly representative. A feeling as pure feeling is not known; it is only known when it is
distinguished, as to quality or degree, and so classed or brought under some representation
of a kind or description of feeling, as acute, painful, and so on. The accurate recognition
of an impression of colour depends, as we have seen, on this process of classing being correctly
performed. Similarly, the recognition of internal feelings implies the presence of the appropriate
or corresponding class-representation. Accordingly, if it is possible for a wrong representation
to get substituted for the right one, there seems to be an opening for error.

Any error that would thus arise can, of course, only be determined as such in relation to some
other act of introspection of the same mind. In matters of internal perception other minds
cannot directly assist us in correcting error as they can in the case of external perception,
though, as we shall see by-and-by, they may do so indirectly. The standard of reality directly
applicable to introspective cognition is plainly what the individual mind recognizes at its
best moments, when the processes of attention and classifying are accurately performed, and
the representation may be regarded with certainty as answering to the feeling. In other words,
in the sphere of internal, as in that of external experience, the criterion of reality is the
average and perfect, as distinguished from the particular variable and imperfect act of cognition.

We see, then, that error in the process of introspection is at least conceivable. And now let
us examine this process a little further, in order to find out what probabilities of error
attach to it.

To begin with, then, an act of introspection, to be complete, clearly involves the apprehension
of an internal feeling or idea as something mental and marked off from the region of external
experience. This distinct recognition of internal states of mind as such, in opposition to
external impressions, is by no means easy, but presupposes a certain degree of intellectual
culture, and a measure of the power of abstract attention.

Confusion of Internal and External Experience.

Accordingly, we find that where this is wanting there is a manifest disposition to translate
internal feelings into terms of external impressions. In this way there may arise a slight
amount of habitual and approximately constant error. Not that the process approaches to one
of hallucination; but only that the internal feelings are intuited as having a cause or origin
analogous to that of sense-impressions. Thus to the uncultivated mind a sudden thought seems
like an audible announcement from without. The superstitious man talks of being led by some
good or evil spirit when new ideas arise in his mind or new resolutions shape themselves. To
the simple intelligence of the boor every thought presents itself as an analogue of an audible
voice, and he commonly describes his rough musings as saying this and that to himself. And
this, mode of viewing the matter is reflected even, in the language of cultivated persons.
Thus we say, "The idea struck me," or "was borne in on me," "I was forced to do so and so,"
and so on, and in this manner we tend to assimilate internal to external mental phenomena.

Much the same thing shows itself in our customary modes of describing our internal feelings
of pleasure and pain. When a man in a state of mental depression speaks of having "a load"
on his mind it is evident that he is interpreting a mental by help of an analogy to a bodily
feeling. Similarly, when we talk of the mind being torn by doubt or worn by anxiety. It would
seem as though we tended mechanically to translate mental pleasures and pains into the language
of bodily sensations.

The explanation of this deeply rooted tendency to a slightly illusory view of our mental states
is, I think, an easy one. For one thing, it follows from the relation of the mental image to
the sense-impression that we should tend to assimilate the former to the latter as to its nature
and origin. This would account for the common habit of regarding thoughts, which are of course
accompanied by representatives of their verbal symbols, as internal voices, a habit which is
probably especially characteristic of the child and the uncivilized man, as we have found it
to be characteristic of the insane.

Another reason, however, must be sought for the habit of assimilating internal feelings to
external sensations. If language has been evolved as an incident of social life, at once one
of its effects and its causes, it would seem to follow that it must have first shaped Itself
to the needs of expressing these common objective experiences which we receive by way of our
senses. Our habitual modes of thought, limited as they are by language, retain traces of this
origin. We cannot conceive any mental process except by some vague analogy to a physical process.
In other words, we can even now only think with perfect clearness when we are concerned with
some object of common cognition. Thus, the sphere of external sensation and of physical agencies
furnishes us with the one type of thinkable thing or object of thought, and we habitually view
subjective mental states as analogues of these.

Still, it may be said that these slight nascent errors are hardly worth naming, and the question
would still appear to recur whether there are other fully developed errors deserving to rank
along with illusions of sense. Do we, it may be asked, ever actually mistake the quality, degree,
or structure of our internal feelings in the manner hinted above, and if so, what is the range
of such error? In order to appreciate the risks of such error, let us compare the process of
self-observation with that of external perception with respect to the difficulties in the way
of accurate presentative knowledge.

Misreading of Internal Feelings.

First of all, it is noteworthy that a state of consciousness at any one moment is an exceedingly
complex thing. It is made up of a mass of feelings and active impulses which often combine
and blend in a most inextricable way. External sensations come in groups, too, but as a rule
they do not fuse in apparently simple wholes as our internal feelings often do. The very possibility
of perception depends on a clear discrimination of sense-elements, for example, the several
sensations of colour obtained by the stimulation of different parts of the retina.[103] But
no such clearly defined mosaic of feelings presents itself in the internal region: one element
overlaps and partly loses itself in another, and subjective analysis is often an exceedingly
difficult matter. Our consciousness is thus a closely woven texture in which the mental eye
often fails to trace the several threads or strands. Moreover, there is the fact that many
of these ingredients are exceedingly shadowy, belonging to that obscure region of sub-consciousness
which it is so hard to penetrate with the light of discriminative attention. This remark applies
with particular force to that mass of organic feelings which constitutes what is known as coenæsthesis;
or vital sense.

While, to speak figuratively, the minute anatomy of consciousness is thus difficult with respect
to longitudinal sections of the mental column, it is no less difficult with respect to transverse
sections. Under ordinary circumstances, external impressions persist so that they can be transfixed
by a deliberate act of attention, and objects rarely flit over the external scene so rapidly
as to allow us no time for a careful recognition of the impression. Not so in the case of the
internal region of mind. The composite states of consciousness just described never remain
perfectly uniform for the shortest conceivable duration. They change continually, just as the
contents of the kaleidoscope vary with every shake of the instrument. Thus, one shade of feeling
runs into another in such a way that it is often impossible to detect its exact quality; and
even when the character of the feeling does not change, its intensity is undergoing alterations
so that an accurate observation of its quantity is impracticable. Also, in this unstable shifting
internal scene features may appear for a duration too short to allow of close recognition.
In this way it happens that we cannot sharply divide the feeling of the moment from its antecedents
and its consequents.

If, now, we take these facts in connection with what has been said above respecting the nature
of the process of introspection, the probability of error will be made sufficiently clear.
To transfix any particular feeling of the moment, to selectively attend to it, and to bring
it under the proper representation, is an operation that requires time, a time which, though
short, is longer than the fugitive character of so much of our internal mental life allows.
From all of which it would appear to follow that it must be very easy to overlook, confuse,
and transform, both as to quality and as to quantity, the actual ingredients of our internal
consciousness.

From these sources there spring a number of small errors of introspection which, to distinguish
them from others to be spoken of presently, may be called passive. These would include all
errors in detecting what is in consciousness due to the intricacies of the phenomena, and not
aided by any strong basis. For example, a mental state may fail to disclose its component parts
to introspective attention. Thus, a motive may enter into our action which is so entangled
with other feelings as to escape our notice. The fainter the feeling the greater the difficulty
of detaching it and inspecting it in isolation. Again, an error of introspection may have its
ground in the fugitive character of a feeling. If, for example, a man is asked whether a rapid
action was a voluntary one, he may in retrospection easily imagine that it was not so, when
as a matter of fact the action was preceded by a momentary volition. When a person exclaims,
"I did a thing inadvertently or mechanically," it often means that he did not note the motive
underlying the action. Such transitory feelings which cannot at the moment be seized by an
act of attention are pretty certain to disappear at once, leaving not even a temporary trace
in consciousness.

We will now pass to the consideration of other illusions of introspection more analogous to
what I have called the active illusions of perception. In our examination of these we found
that a pure representation may under certain circumstances simulate the appearance of a presentation,
that a mental image may approximate to a sense-impression. In the case of the internal feelings
this liability shows itself in a still more striking form.

The higher feelings or emotions are distinguished from the simple sense-feelings in being largely
representative. Thus, a feeling of contentment at any moment, though no doubt conditioned by
the bodily state and the character of the organic sensations or coenæsthesis, commonly depends
for the most part on intellectual representations of external circumstances or relations, and
may be called an ideal foretaste of actual satisfactions, such as the pleasures of success,
of companionship, and so on. This being so, it is easy for imagination to call up a semblance
of these higher feelings. Since they depend largely on representation, a mere act of representation
may suffice to excite a degree of the feeling hardly distinguishable from the actual one. Thus,
to imagine myself as contented is really to see myself at the moment as actually contented.
Again, the actor, though, as we shall see by-and-by, he does not feel all that the spectator
is apt to attribute to him, tends, when vividly representing to himself a particular shade
of feeling, to regard himself as actually feeling in this way. Thus, it is said of Garrick,
that when acting Richard III., he felt himself for the moment to be a villain.

We should expect from all this that in the act of introspection the mind is apt, within certain
limits, to find what it is prepared to find. And since there is in these acts often a distinct
wish to detect some particular feeling, we can see how easy it must be for a man through bias
and a wrong focussing of the attention to deceive himself up to a certain point with respect
to the actual contents of his mind.

Let us examine one of these active illusions a little more fully. It would at first sight seem
to be a perfectly simple thing to determine at any given moment whether we are enjoying ourselves,
whether our emotional condition rises above the pleasure-threshold or point of indifference
and takes on a positive hue of the agreeable or pleasurable. Yet there is good reason for supposing
that people not unfrequently deceive themselves on this matter. It is, perhaps, hardly an exaggeration
to say that most of us are capable of imagining that we are having enjoyment when we conform
to the temporary fashion of social amusement. It has been cynically observed that people go
into society less in order to be happy than to seem so, and one may add that in this semblance
of enjoyment they may, provided they are not blasé, deceive themselves as well as others. The
expectation of enjoyment, the knowledge that the occasion is intended to bring about this result,
the recognition of the external signs of enjoyment in others--all this may serve to blind a
man in the earlier stages of social amusement to his actual mental condition.

If we look closely into this variety of illusion, we shall see that it is very similar in its
structure and origin to that kind of erroneous perception which arises from inattention to
the actual impression of the moment under the influence of a strong expectation of something
different. The representation of ourselves as entertained dislodges from our internal field
of vision our actual condition, relegating this to the region of obscure consciousness. Could
we for a moment get rid of this representation and look at the real feelings of the time, we
should become aware of our error; and it is possible that the process of becoming blasé involves
a waking up to a good deal of illusion of the kind.

Just as we can thus deceive ourselves within certain limits as to our emotional condition,
so we can mistake the real nature of our intellectual condition. Thus, when an idea is particularly
grateful to our minds, we may easily imagine that we believe it, when in point of fact all
the time there is a sub-conscious process of criticism going on, which if we attended to it
for a moment would amount to a distinct act of disbelief. Some persons appear to be capable
of going on habitually practising this petty deceit on themselves, that is to say, imagining
they believe what in fact they are strongly inclined to doubt. Indeed, this remark applies
to all the grateful illusions respecting ourselves and others, which will have to be discussed
by-and-by. The impulse to hold to the illusion in spite of critical reflection, involves the
further introspective illusion of taking a state of doubt for one of assurance. Thus, the weak,
flattered man or woman manages to keep up a sort of fictitious belief in the truth of the words
which are so pleasant to the ear.

It is plain that the external conditions of life impose on the individual certain habits of
feeling which often conflict with his personal propensities. As a member of society he has
a powerful motive to attribute certain feelings to himself, and this motive acts as a bias
in disturbing his vision of what is actually in his mind. While this holds good of lighter
matters, as that of enjoyment just referred to, it applies still more to graver matters. Thus,
for example, a man may easily persuade himself that he feels a proper sentiment of indignation
against a perpetrator of some mean or cruel act, when as a matter of fact his feeling is much
more one of compassion for the previously liked offender. In this way we impose on ourselves,
disguising our real sentiments by a thin veil of make-believe.

So far I have spoken of an illusion of introspection as analogous to the slight misapprehensions
of sense-impression which were touched on in connection with illusions of sense (Chapter III.).
It is to be observed, however, that the confusing of elements of consciousness, which is so
prominent a factor in introspective illusion, involves a species of error closely analogous
to a complete illusion of perception, that is to say, one which involves a misinterpretation
of a sense-impression.

This variety of illusion is illustrated in the case in which a present feeling or thought is
confounded with some inference based on it. For example, a present thought may, through forgetfulness,
be regarded as a new discovery. Its originality appears to be immediately made known in the
very freshness which characterizes it. Every author probably has undergone the experience of
finding that ideas which started up to his mind as fresh creations, were unconscious reminiscences
of his own or of somebody else's ideas.

In the case of present emotional states this liability to confuse the present and the past
is far greater. Here there is something hardly distinguishable from an active illusion of sense-perception.
In this condition of mind a man often says that he has an "intuition" of something supposed
to be immediately given in the feeling itself. For instance, one whose mind is thrilled by
the pulsation of a new joy exclaims, "This is the happiest moment of my life," and the assurance
seems to be contained in the very intensity of the feeling itself. Of course, cool reflection
will tell him that what he affirms is merely a belief, the accuracy of which presupposes processes
of recollection and judgment, but to the man's mind at the moment the supremacy of this particular
joy is immediately intuited. And so with the assurance that the present feeling, for example
of love, is undying, that it is equal to the most severe trials, and so on. A man is said to
feel at the moment that it is so, though as the facts believed have reference to absent circumstances
and events, it is plain that the knowledge is by no means intuitive.

At such times our minds are in a state of pure feeling: intellectual discrimination and comparison
are no longer possible. In this way our emotions in the moments of their greatest intensity
carry away our intellects with them, confusing the region of pure imagination with that of
truth and certainty, and even the narrow domain of the present with the vast domain of the
past and future. In this condition differences of present and future may be said to disappear
and the energy of the emotion to constitute an immediate assurance of its existence absolutely.[104]

The great region for the illustration of these active illusions is that of the moral and religious
life. With respect to our real motives, our dominant aspirations, and our highest emotional
experiences, we are greatly liable to deceive ourselves. The moralist and the theologian have
clearly recognized the possibilities of self-deception in matters of feeling and impulse. To
them it is no mystery that the human heart should mistake the fictitious for the real, the
momentary and evanescent for the abiding. And they have recognized, too, the double bias in
these errors, namely, the powerful disposition to exaggerate the intensity and persistence
of a present feeling on the one hand, and on the other hand to take a mere wish to feel in
a particular way for the actual possession of the feeling.

Philosophic Illusions.

The opinion of theologians respecting the nature of moral introspection presents a singular
contrast to that entertained by some philosophers as to the nature of self-consciousness. It
is supposed by many of these that in interrogating their internal consciousness they are lifted
above all risk of error. The "deliverance of consciousness" is to them something bearing the
seal of a supreme authority, and must not be called in question. And so they make an appeal
to individual consciousness a final resort in all matters of philosophical dispute.

Now, on the face of it, it does not seem probable that this operation should have an immunity
from all liability to error. For the matters respecting which we are directed to introspect
ourselves, are the most subtle and complex things of our intellectual and emotional life. And
some of these philosophers even go so far as to affirm that the plain man is quite equal to
the niceties of this process.

It has been brought as a charge against some of these same philosophers that they have based
certain of their doctrines on errors of introspection. This charge must, of course, be received
with some sort of suspicion here, since it has been brought forward by avowed disciples of
an opposite philosophic school. Nevertheless, as there is from our present disinterested and
purely scientific point of view a presumption that philosophers like other men are fallible,
and since it is certain that philosophical introspection does not materially differ from other
kinds, it seems permissible just to glance at some of these alleged illusions in relation to
other and more vulgar forms. Further reference to them will be made at the end of our study.

These so-called philosophical illusions will be found, like the vulgar ones just spoken of,
to illustrate the distinction drawn between passive and active illusions. That is to say, the
alleged misreading of individual consciousness would result now from a confusion of distinct
elements, including wrong suggestion, due to the intricacies of the phenomena, now from a powerful
predisposition to read something into the phenomena.

A kind of illusion in which the passive element seems most conspicuous would be the error into
which the interrogator of the individual consciousness is said to fall respecting simple unanalyzable
states of mind. On the face of it, it is not likely that a mere inward glance at the tangle
of conscious states should suffice to determine what is such a perfectly simple mental phenomenon.
Accordingly, when a writer declares that an act of introspection demonstrates the simple unanalyzable
character of such a feeling as the sentiment of beauty or that of moral approval, the opponent
of this view clearly has some show of argument for saying that this simplicity may be altogether
illusory and due to the absence of a perfect act of attention. Similarly, when it is said that
the idea of space contains no representations of muscular sensation, the statement may clearly
arise from the want of a sufficiently careful kind of introspective analysis.[105]

In most cases of these alleged philosophical errors, however, the active and passive factors
seem to combine. There are certain intricacies in the mental phenomenon itself favouring the
chances of error, and there are independent predispositions leading the mind to look at the
phenomenon in a wrong way. This seems to apply to the famous declaration of a certain school
of thinkers that by an act of introspection we can intuit the fact of liberty, that is to say,
a power of spontaneous determination of action superior to and regulative of the influence
of motives. It may be plausibly contended that this idea arises partly from a mixing up of
facts of present consciousness with inferences from them, and partly from a natural predisposition
of the mind to invest itself with this supreme power of absolute origination.[106]

In a similar way, it might be contended that other famous philosophic dicta are founded on
a process of erroneous introspection of subjective mental states. In some cases, indeed, it
seems a plausible explanation to regard these illusions as mere survivals in attenuated shadowy
form of grosser popular illusions. But this is not yet the time to enter on these, which, moreover,
hardly fall perhaps under our definition of an illusion of introspection.

Value of the Introspective Method.

In drawing up this rough sketch of the illusions of introspection, I have had no practical
object in view. I have tried to look at the facts as they are apart from any conclusions to
be drawn from them. The question how far the liability to error in any region of inquiry vitiates
the whole process is a difficult one; and the question whether the illusions to which we are
subject in introspection materially affect the value of self-knowledge as a whole and consequently
of the introspective method in psychology, as many affirm, is too subtle a one to be fully
treated now. All that I shall attempt here is to show that it does not do this any more than
the risk of sense-illusion can be said materially to affect the value of external observation.

It is to be noted first of all that the errors of introspection are much more limited than
those of sense-perception. They broadly answer to the slight errors connected with the discrimination
and recognition of the sense-impression. There is nothing answering to a complete hallucination
in the sphere of the inner mental life. It follows, too, from what has been said above, that
the amount of active error in introspection is insignificant, since the representation of a
feeling or belief is so very similar to the actual experience of it.

In brief, the errors of introspection, though numerous, are all too slight to render the process
of introspection as a whole unsound and untrustworthy. Though, as we have seen, it involves,
strictly speaking, an ingredient of representation, this fact does not do away with the broad
distinction between presentative and representative cognition. Introspection is presentative
in the sense that the reality constituting the object of cognition, the mind's present feeling,
is as directly present to the knowing mind as anything can be conceived to be. It may be added
that the power of introspection is a comparatively new acquisition of the human race, and that,
as it improves, the amount of error connected with its operation may reasonably be expected
to become infinitesimal.

It is often supposed by those who undervalue the introspective method in psychology that there
is a special difficulty in the detection of error in introspection, owing to the fact that
the object of inspection is something individual and private, and not open to common scrutiny
as the object of external perception. Yet, while allowing a certain force to this objection
I would point out, first of all, that even in sense-perception, what the individual mind is
immediately certain of is its own sensations. The relatively perfect certainty which finally
attaches to the presentative side of sense-perception is precisely that which finally attaches
to the results of introspection.

In the second place, it may be said that the contrast between the inner and the outer experience
is much less than it seems. In many cases our emotions are the direct result of a common external
cause, and even when they are not thus attached to some present external circumstance, we are
able, it is admitted, by the use of language, roughly to compare our individual feelings. And
such comparison is continually bringing to light the fact that there is a continuity in our
mental structure, that our highest thoughts and emotions lead us back to our common sense-impressions,
and that consequently, in spite of all individual differences of temperament and mental organization,
our inner experience is in all its larger features a common experience.

I may add that this supposition of the common nature of our internal experience, as a whole,
not only underlies the science of psychology, but is implied in the very process of detecting
and correcting errors of introspection. I do not mean that in matters of feeling "authority"
is to override "private judgment." Our last resort with respect to things of the mind is, as
I have said, that of careful self-inspection. And the progress of psychology and the correction
of illusion proceed by means of an ever-improving exercise of the introspective faculty. Yet
such individual inspection can at least be guided by the results of others' similar inspection,
and should be so guided as soon as a general consensus in matters of internal experience is
fairly made out. In point of fact, the preceding discussion of illusions of introspection has
plainly rested on the sufficiently verified assumption that the calmest and most efficient
kind of introspection, in bringing to light what is permanent as compared with what is variable
in the individual cognition, points in the direction of a common body of introspected fact.

CHAPTER IX.

OTHER QUASI-PRESENTATIVE ILLUSIONS: ERRORS OF INSIGHT.

Besides the perception of external objects, and the inspection of our internal mental states,
there are other forms of quasi-presentative cognition which need to be touched on here, inasmuch
as they are sometimes erroneous and illusory.

In the last chapter I alluded to the fact that emotion may arise as the immediate accompaniment
of a sense-impression. When this is the case there is a disposition to read into the external
object a quality answering to the emotion, just as there is a disposition to ascribe to objects
qualities of heat and cold answering to the sensations thus called. And such a reference of
an emotional result to an external exciting cause approximates in character to an immediate
intuition. The cognition of the quality is instantaneous, and quite free from any admixture
of conscious inference. Accordingly, we have to inquire into the illusory forms of such intuition,
if such there be.

Æsthetic Intuition.

Conspicuous among these quasi-presentative emotional cognitions is æsthetic intuition, that
is to say, the perception of an object as beautiful. It is not necessary here to raise the
question whether there is, strictly speaking, any quality in things answering to the sentiment
of beauty in our minds: this is a philosophical and not a psychological question, and turns
on the further question, what we mean by object. All that we need to assume here is that there
are certain aspects of external things, certain relations of form, together with a power of
exciting certain pleasurable ideas in the spectator's mind, which are commonly recognized as
the cause of the emotion of beauty, and indeed regarded as constituting the embodiments of
the objective quality, beauty. Æsthetic intuition thus clearly implies the immediate assurance
of the existence of a common source of æsthetic delight, a source bound up with an object of
common sense-perception. And so we may say that to call a thing beautiful is more or less distinctly
to recognize it as a cause of a present emotion, and to attribute to it a power of raising
a kindred emotion in other minds.

Æsthetic Illusion.

According to this view of the matter, an illusion of æsthetic intuition would arise whenever
this power of affecting a number of minds pleasurably is wrongly attributed, by an act of "intuition,"
to an object of sense-perception, on the ground of a present personal feeling.

Now, this error is by no means unfrequent. Our delight in viewing external things, though agreeing
up to a certain point, does not agree throughout. It is a trite remark that there is a large
individual factor, a considerable "personal equation," in matters of taste, as in other matters.
Permanent differences of natural sensibility, of experience, of intellectual habits, and so
on, make an object æsthetically impressive and valuable to one man and not to another. Yet
these differences tend to be overlooked. The individual mind, filled with delight at some spectacle,
automatically projects its feeling outwards in the shape of a cause of a common sentiment.
And the force of this impulse cannot be altogether explained as the effect of past experiences
and of association. It seems to involve, in addition, the play of social instincts, the impulse
of the individual mind to connect itself in sympathy with the collective mind.

Here, as in the other varieties of illusion already treated of, we may distinguish between
a passive and an active side; only in this case the passive side must not be taken as corresponding
to any common suggestions of the object, as in the case of perception proper. So far as an
illusion of æsthetic intuition may be considered as passive, it must be due to the effect of
circumscribed individual associations with the object.

All agree that what is called beauty consists, to a considerable extent, of a power of awaking
pleasant suggestions, but in order that these should constitute a ground of æsthetic value,
they must be common, participated in by all, or at least by an indefinite number. This will
be the case when the association rests on our common every-day experiences, and our common
knowledge of things, as in the case of the peaceful beauty of an ascending curl of blue smoke
in a woody landscape, or the awful beauty of a lofty precipice. On the other hand, when the
experience and recollections, which are the source of the pleasure, are restricted and accidental,
any attribution of objective worth is illusory. Thus, the ascription of beauty to one's native
village, to one's beloved friends, and so on, in so far as it carries the conviction of objective
worth, may imply a confusion of the individual with the common experience.

The active side of this species of illusions would be illustrated in every instance of ascribing
beauty to objects which is due, in a considerable measure at least, to some pre-existing disposition
in the mind, whether permanent or temporary. A man brings his peculiar habits of thought and
feeling to the contemplation of objects, and the æsthetic impression produced is coloured by
these predispositions. Thus, a person of a sad and gloomy cast of mind will be disposed to
see a sombre beauty where other eyes see nothing of the kind. And then there are all the effects
of temporary conditions of the imagination and the feelings. Thus, the individual mind may
be focussed in a certain way through the suggestion of another. People not seldom see a thing
to be beautiful because they are told that it is so. It might not be well to inquire too curiously
how many of the frequenters of the annual art exhibitions use their own eyes in framing their
æsthetic judgments. Or the temporary predisposition may reside in a purely personal feeling
or desire uppermost at the time. Our enjoyment of nature or of art is coloured by our temporary
mood. There are moments of exceptional mental exhilaration, when even a commonplace scene will
excite an appreciable kind of admiration. Or there may be a strong wish to find a thing beautiful
begotten of another feeling. Thus, a lover desires to find beauty in his mistress; or, having
found it in her face and form, desires to find a harmonious beauty in her mind. In these different
ways temporary accidents of personal feeling and imagination enter into and determine our æsthetic
intuition, making it deviate from the common standard. This kind of error may even approximate
in character to an hallucination of sense when there is nothing answering to a common source
of æsthetic pleasure. Thus, the fond mother, through the very force of her affection, will
construct a beauty in her child, which for others is altogether non-existent.

What applies to the perception of beauty in the narrow sense will apply to all other modes
of æsthetic intuition, as that of the sublime and the ludicrous, and the recognition of the
opposite of beauty or the ugly. In like manner, it will apply to moral intuition in so far
as it is an instantaneous recognition of a certain quality in a perceived action based on,
or at least conjoined with, a particular emotional effect. In men's intuitive judgments respecting
the right and the wrong, the noble and base, the admirable and contemptible, and so on, we
may see the same kind of illusory universalizing of personal feeling as we have seen in their
judgments respecting the beautiful. And the sources of the error are the same in the two cases.
Accidents of experience, giving special associations to the actions, will not unfrequently
warp the individual intuition. Ethical culture, like æsthetic culture, means a continual casting
aside of early illusory habits of intuition. And further, moral intuition illustrates all those
effects of feeling which we have briefly traced in the case of æsthetic intuition. The perversions
of the moral intuition under the sway of prejudice are too familiar to need more than a bare
allusion.

Nature of Insight.

There remains one further mode of cognition which approximates in character to presentative
knowledge, and is closely related to external perception. I refer to the commonly called "intuitive"
process by which we apprehend the feelings and thoughts of other minds through the external
signs of movement, vocal sound, etc., which make up expression and language. This kind of knowledge,
which is not sufficiently marked off from external perception on the one side and introspection
on the other, I venture to call Insight.

I am well aware that this interpretation of the mental states of others is commonly described
as a process of inference involving a conscious reference to our own similar experiences. I
willingly grant that it is often so. At the same time, it must be perfectly plain that it is
not always so. It is, indeed, doubtful whether in its first stages in early life it is invariably
so, for there seem to be good reasons for attributing to the infant mind a certain degree of
instinctive or inherited capability in making out the looks and tones of others.[107] And,
however this may be, it is certain that with the progress of life a good part of this interpretation
comes to be automatic or unconscious, approximating in character to a sense-perception. To
recognize contentment in a placid smile is, one would say, hardly less immediate and intuitive
than to recognize the coolness of a stream.

We must, of course, all allow that the fusion of the presentative and the representative element
is, speaking generally, more complete in the case of sense-perception than in that here considered.
In spite of Berkeley's masterly account of the rationale of visual perception as an interpretation
of "visual language" and all that has confirmed it, the plain man cannot, at the moment of
looking at an object, easily bring himself to admit that distance is not directly present to
his vision. On the other hand, on cool reflection, he will recognize that the complacent benevolent
sentiment is distinct from the particular movements and changes in the eye and other features
which express it. Yet, while admitting this, I must contend that there is no very hard and
fast line dividing the two processes, but that the reading of others' feelings approximates
in character to an act of perception.

An intuitive insight may, then, be defined as that instantaneous, automatic, or "unconscious"
mode of interpreting another's feeling which occurs whenever the feeling is fully expressed,
and when its signs are sufficiently familiar to us. This definition will include the interpretation
of thoughts by means of language, though not, of course, the belief in an objective fact grounded
on a recognition of another's belief. On the other hand, it will exclude all the more complex
interpretations of looks and words which imply conscious comparison, reflection, and reasoning.
Further, it will exclude a large part of the interpretation of actions as motived, since this,
though sometimes approaching the intuitive form, is for the most part a process of conjectural
or doubtful inference, and wanting in the immediate assurance which belongs to an intuitive
reading of a present emotion or thought.

From this short account of the process of insight, its relation to perception and introspection
becomes pretty plain. On the one hand, it closely resembles sense-perception, since it proceeds
by the interpretation of a sense-impression by means of a representative image. On the other
hand, it differs from sense-perception, and is more closely allied to introspection in the
fact that, while the process of interpretation in the former case is a reconstruction of external
experiences, in the latter case it is a reconstruction of internal experiences. To intuit another's
feeling is clearly to represent to ourselves a certain kind of internal experience previously
known, in its elements at least, by introspection, while these represented experiences are
distinctly referred to another personality.

And now we see what constitutes the object of insight. This is, in part, a common experience,
as in the case of sense-perception and æsthetic intuition, since to perceive another's feeling
is implicitly to cognize the external conditions of a common insight. But this is clearly not
the whole, nor even the main part of objective reality in this act of cognition. An intuitive
insight differs from a sense-perception in that it involves an immediate assurance of the existence
of a feeling presentatively known, though not to our own minds. The object in insight is thus
a presentative feeling as in introspection, though not our own, but another's. And so it differs
from the object in sense-perception in so far as this last involves sense-experiences, as muscular
and tactual feelings, which are not at the moment presentatively known to any mind.

Illusions of Insight.

And now we are in a position, perhaps, to define an illusion of insight, and to inquire whether
there is anything answering to our definition. An illusory insight is a quasi-intuition of
another's feelings which does not answer to the internal reality as presentatively known to
the subject himself. In spite of the errors of introspection dealt with in the last chapter,
nobody will doubt that, when it is a question between a man's knowing what is at the moment
in his own mind and somebody else's knowing, logic, as well as politeness, requires us to give
precedence to the former.

An illusion of insight, like the other varieties of illusion already dealt with, may arise
either by way of wrong suggestion or by way of a warping preconception. Let us look at each
of these sources apart.

Our insights, like our perceptions, though intuitive in form, are obviously determined by previous
experience, association, and habit. Hence, on its passive side, an illusion of insight may
be described as a wrong interpretation of a new or exceptional case. For example, having associated
the representation of a slight feeling of astonishment with uplifted eyebrows, we irresistibly
tend to see a face in which this is a constant feature as expressing this particular shade
of emotion. In this way we sometimes fall into grotesque errors as to mental traits. And the
most practised physiognomist may not unfrequently err by importing the results of his special
circle of experiences into new and unlike cases.

Much the same thing occurs in language. Our timbre of voice, our articulation, and our vocabulary,
like our physiognomy, have about them something individual, and error often arises from overlooking
this, and hastily reading common interpretations into exceptional cases. The misunderstandings
that arise even among the most open and confiding friends sufficiently illustrate this liability
to error.

Sometimes the error becomes more palpable, as, for example, when we visit another country.
A foreign language, when heard, provokingly suggests all kinds of absurd meanings through analogies
to our familiar tongue. Thus, the Englishman who visits Germany cannot, for a time, hear a
lady use the expression, "Mein Mann," without having the amusing suggestion that the speaker
is wishing to call special attention to the fact of her husband's masculinity. And doubtless
the German who visits us derives a similar kind of amusement from such involuntary comparisons.

A fertile source of illusory insight is, of course, conscious deception on the part of others.
The rules of polite society require us to be hypocrites in a small way, and we have occasionally
to affect the signs of amiability, interest, and amusement, when our actual sentiment is one
of indifference, weariness, or even positive antipathy. And in this way a good deal of petty
illusion arises. Although we may be well aware of the general untrustworthiness of this society
behaviour, such is the force of association and habit, that the bland tone and flattering word
irresistibly excite a momentary feeling of gratification, an effect which is made all the more
easy by the co-operation of the recipient's own wishes, touched on in the last chapter.

Among all varieties of this deception, that of the stage is the most complete. The actor is
a man who has elaborately trained himself in the simulation of certain feelings. And when his
acting is of the best quality, and the proper bodily attitude, gesture, tone of voice, and
so on, are hit off, the force of the illusion completely masters us. For the moment we lose
sight of the theatrical surroundings, and see the actor as really carried away by the passion
which he so closely imitates. Histrionic illusion is as complete as any artistic variety can
venture to be.[108]

I have said that our insights are limited by our own mental experience, and so by introspection.
In truth, every interpretation of another's look and word is determined ultimately, not by
what we have previously observed in others, but by what we have personally felt, or at least
have in a sense made our own by intense sympathy. Hence we may, in general, regard an illusion
of insight on the active side as a hasty projection of our own feelings, thoughts, etc., into
other minds.

We habitually approach others with a predisposition to attribute to them our own modes of thinking
and feeling. And this predisposition will be the more powerful, the more desirous we are for
sympathy, and for that confirmation of our own views which the reflection of another mind affords.
Thus, when making a new acquaintance, people are in general disposed to project too much of
themselves into the person who is the object of inspection. They intuitively endow him with
their own ideas, ways of looking at things, prejudices of sentiment, and so on, and receive
something like a shock when later on they find out how different he is from this first hastily
formed and largely performed image.

The same thing occurs in the reading of literature, and the appreciation of the arts of expression
generally. We usually approach an author with a predisposition to read our own habits of thought
and sentiment into his words. It is probably a characteristic defect of a good deal of current
criticism of remote writers to attribute to them too much of our modern conceptions and aims.
Similarly, we often import our own special feelings into the utterances of the poet and of
the musical composer. That much of this intuition is illusory, may be seen by a little attention
to the "intuitions" of different critics. Two readers of unlike emotional organization will
find incompatible modes of feeling in the same poet. And everybody knows how common it is for
musical critics and amateurs to discover quite dissimilar feelings in the same composition.[109]

The effect of this active projection of personal feeling will, of course, be seen most strikingly
when there is a certain variety of feeling actually excited at the time in the observer's mind.
A man who is in a particularly happy mood tends to reflect his exuberant gladness on others.
The lover, in the moment of exalted emotion, reads a response to all his aspirations in his
mistress's eyes. Again, a man will tend to project his own present ideas into the minds of
others, and so imagine that they know what he knows; and this sometimes leads to a comical
kind of embarrassment, and even to a betrayal of something which it was the interest of the
person to keep to himself. Once more, in interpreting language, we may sometimes catch ourselves
mistaking the meaning, owing to the presence of a certain idea in the mind at the time. Thus,
if I have just been thinking of Comte, and overhear a person exclaim, "I'm positive," I irresistibly
tend, for the moment, to ascribe to him an avowal of discipleship to the great positivist.

Poetic Illusion.

The most remarkable example of this projection of feeling is undoubtedly illustrated in the
poetic interpretation of inanimate nature. The personification of tree, mountain, ocean, and
so on, illustrates, no doubt, the effect of association and external suggestion; for there
are limits to such personification. But resemblance and suggestion commonly bear, in this case,
but a small proportion to active constructive imagination. One might, perhaps, call this kind
of projection the hallucination of insight, since there is nothing objective corresponding
to the interpretative image.

The imaginative and poetic mind is continually on the look out for hints of life, consciousness,
and emotion in nature. It finds a certain kind of satisfaction in this half-illusory, dream-like
transformation of nature. The deepest ground of this tendency must probably be looked for in
the primitive ideas of the race, and the transmission by inheritance of the effect of its firmly
fixed habits of mind. The undisciplined mind of early man, incapable of distinguishing the
object of perception from the product of spontaneous imagination, and taking his own double
existence as the type of all existence, actually saw the stream, the ocean, and the mountain
as living beings; and so firmly rooted is this way of regarding objects, that even our scientifically
trained minds find it a relief to relapse occasionally into it.[110]

While there is this general imaginative disposition in the poetic mind to endow nature with
life and consciousness, there are special tendencies to project the individual feelings into
objects. Every imaginative mind looks for reflections of its own deepest feelings in the world
about it. The lonely embittered heart, craving for sympathy, which he cannot meet with in his
fellow-man, finds traces of it in the sighing of the trees or the moaning of the sad sea-wave.
Our Poet Laureate, in his great elegy, has abundantly illustrated this impulse of the imagination
to reflect its own emotional colouring on to inanimate things: for example in the lines--

    "The wild unrest that lives in woe
  Would dote and pore on yonder cloud
  That rises upward always higher,
     And onward drags a labouring breast,
     And topples round the dreary west,
  A looming bastion fringed with fire."

So far I have been considering active illusions of insight as arising through the play of the
impulse of the individual mind to project its feelings outwards, or to see their reflections
in external things. I must now add that active illusion may be due to causes similar to those
which we have seen to operate in the sphere of illusory perception and introspection. That
is to say, there may be a disposition, permanent or temporary, to ascribe a certain kind of
feeling to others in accordance with our wishes, fears, and so on.

To give an illustration of the permanent causes, it is well known that a conceited man will
be disposed to attribute admiration of himself to others. On the other hand, a shy, timid person
will be prone to read into other minds the opposite kind of feeling.

Coming to temporary forces, we find that any expectation to meet with a particular kind of
mental trait in a new acquaintance will dispose the observer hastily and erroneously to attribute
corresponding feelings to the person. And if this expectation springs out of a present feeling,
the bias to illusory insight is still more powerful. For example, a child that fears its parent's
displeasure will be prone to misinterpret the parent's words and actions, colouring them according
to its fears. So an angry man, strongly desirous of making out that a person has injured him,
will be disposed to see signs of conscious guilt in this person's looks or words. Similarly,
a lover will read fine thoughts or sentiments into the mind of his mistress under the influence
of a strong wish to admire.

And what applies to the illusory interpretation of others' feelings applies to the ascription
of feelings to inanimate objects. This is due not simply to the impulse to expand one's conscious
existence through far-reaching resonances of sympathy, but also to a permanent or temporary
disposition to attribute a certain kind of feeling to an object. Thus, the poet personifies
nature in part because his emotional cravings prompt him to construct the idea of something
that can be admired or worshipped. Once more, the action of a momentary feeling when actually
excited is seen in the "mechanical" impulse of a man to retaliate when he strikes his foot
against an object, as a chair, which clearly involves a tendency to attribute an intention
to hurt to the unoffending body, and the rationale of which odd procedure is pretty correctly
expressed in the popular phrase: "It relieves the feelings."

It is worth noting, perhaps, that these illusions of insight, like those of perception, may
involve an inattention to the actual impression of the moment. To erroneously attribute a feeling
to another through an excess of sympathetic eagerness is often to overlook what a perfectly
dispassionate observer would see, as, for example, the immobility of the features or the signs
of a deliberate effort to simulate. This inattention will, it is obvious, be greatest in the
poetic attribution of life and personality to natural objects, in so far as this approximates
to a complete momentary illusion. To see a dark overhanging rock as a grim sombre human presence,
is for the moment to view it under this aspect only, abstracting from its many obvious unlikenesses.

In the same manner, a tendency to read a particular meaning into a word may lead to the misapprehension
of the word. To give an illustration: I was lately reading the fifth volume of G. H. Lewes's
Problems of Life and Mind. In reading the first sentence of one of the sections, I again and
again fell into the error of taking "The great Lagrange," for "The great Language." On glancing
back I saw that the section was headed "On Language," and I at once recognized the cause of
my error in the pre-existence in my mind of the representative image of the word "language."

In concluding this short account of the errors of insight, I may observe that their range is
obviously much greater than that of the previously considered classes of presentative illusion.
This is, indeed, involved in what has been said about the nature of the process. Insight, as
we have seen, though here classed with preservative cognition, occupies a kind of border-land
between immediate knowledge or intuition and inference, shading off from the one to the other.
And in the very nature of the case the scope for error must be great. Even overlooking human
reticence, and, what is worse, human hypocrisy, the conditions of an accurate reading of others'
minds are rarely realized. If, as has been remarked by a good authority, one rarely meets,
even among intelligent people, with a fairly accurate observer of external things, what shall
be said as to the commonly claimed power of "intuitive insight" into other people's thoughts
and feelings, as though it were a process above suspicion? It is plain, indeed, on a little
reflection, that, taking into account what is required in the way of large and varied experience
(personal and social), a habit of careful introspection, as well as a habit of subtle discriminative
attention to the external signs of mental life, and lastly, a freedom from prepossession and
bias, only a very few can ever hope even to approximate to good readers of character.

And then we have to bear in mind that this large amount of error is apt to remain uncorrected.
There is not, as in the case of external perception, an easy way of verification, by calling
in another sense; a misapprehension, once formed, is apt to remain, and I need hardly say that
errors in these matters of mutual comprehension have their palpable practical consequences.
All social cohesion and co-operation rest on this comprehension, and are limited by its degree
of perfection. Nay, more, all common knowledge itself, in so far as it depends on a mutual
communication of impressions, ideas, and beliefs, is limited by the fact of this great liability
to error in what at first seems to be one of the most certain kinds of knowledge.

In view of this depressing amount of error, our solace must be found in the reflection that
this seemingly perfect instrument of intuitive insight is, in reality, like that of introspection,
in process of being fashioned. Mutual comprehension has only become necessary since man entered
the social state, and this, to judge by the evolutionist's measure of time, is not so long
ago. A mental structure so complex and delicate requires for its development a proportionate
degree of exercise, and it is not reasonable to look yet for perfect precision of action. Nevertheless,
we may hope that, with the advance of social development, the faculty is continually gaining
in precision and certainty. And, indeed, this hope is already assured to us in the fact that
the faculty has begun to criticise itself, to distinguish between an erroneous and a true form
of its-operation. In fact, all that has been here said about illusions of insight has involved
the assumption that intellectual culture sharpens the power and makes it less liable to err.

CHAPTER X.

ILLUSIONS OF MEMORY.

Thus far we have been dealing with Presentative Illusions, that is to say, with the errors
incident to the process of what may roughly be called presentative cognition. We have now to
pass to the consideration of Representative Illusion, or that kind of error which attends representative
cognition in so far as it is immediate or self-sufficient, and not consciously based on other
cognition. Of such immediate representative cognition, memory forms the most conspicuous and
most easily recognized variety. Accordingly, I proceed to take up the subject of the Illusions
of Memory.[111]

The mystery of memory lies in the apparent immediateness of the mind's contact with the vanished
past. In "looking back" on our life, we seem to ourselves for the moment to rise above the
limitations of time, to undo its work of extinction, seizing again the realities which its
on-rushing stream had borne far from us. Memory is a kind of resurrection of the buried past:
as we fix our retrospective glance on it, it appears to start anew into life; forms arise within
our minds which, we feel sure, must faithfully represent the things that were. We do not ask
for any proof of the fidelity of this dramatic representation of our past history by memory.
It is seen to be a faithful imitation, just because it is felt to be a revival of the past.
To seek to make the immediate testimony of memory more sure seems absurd, since all our ways
of describing and illustrating this mental operation assume that in the very act of performing
it we do recover a part of our seemingly "dead selves."

To challenge the veracity of a person's memory is one of the boldest things one can do in the
way of attacking deep-seated conviction. Memory is the peculiar domain of the individual. In
going back in recollection to the scenes of other years he is drawing on the secret store-house
of his own consciousness, with which a stranger must not intermeddle. To cast doubt on a person's
memory is commonly resented as an impertinence, hardly less rude than to question his reading
of his own present mental state. Even if the challenger professedly bases his challenge on
the testimony of his own memory, the challenged party is hardly likely to allow the right of
comparing testimonies. He can in most cases boldly assert that those who differ from him are
lacking in his power of recollection. The past, in becoming the past, has, for most people,
ceased to be a common object of reference; it has become a part of the individual's own inner
self, and cannot be easily dislodged or shaken.

Yet, although people in general are naturally disposed to be very confident about matters of
recollection, reflective persons are pretty sure to find out, sooner or later, that they occasionally
fall into errors of memory. It is not the philosopher who first hints at the mendacity of memory,
but the "plain man" who takes careful note of what really happens in the world of his personal
experience. Thus, we hear persons, quite innocent of speculative doubt, qualifying an assertion
made on personal recollection by the proviso, "unless my memory has played me false." And even
less reflective persons, including many who pride themselves on their excellent memory, will,
when sorely pressed, make a grudging admission that they may, after all, be in error. Perhaps
the weakest degree of such an admission, and one which allows to the conceding party a semblance
of victory, is illustrated in the "last word" of one who has boldly maintained a proposition
on the strength of individual recollection, but begins to recognize the instability of his
position: "I either witnessed the occurrence or dreamt it." This is sufficient to prove that,
with all people's boasting about the infallibility of memory, there are many who have a shrewd
suspicion that some of its asseverations will not bear a very close scrutiny.

Psychology of Memory.

In order to understand the errors of memory, we must proceed, as in the case of illusions of
perception, by examining a little into the nature of the normal or correct process.

An act of recollection is said by the psychologist to be purely representative in character,
whereas perception is partly representative, partly preservative. To recall an object to the
mind is to reconstruct the percept in the absence of a sense-impression.[112]

An act of memory is obviously distinguished from one of simple imagination by the presence
of a conscious reference to the past. Every recollection is an immediate reapprehension of
some past object or event. However vague this reference may be, it must be there to constitute
the process one of recollection.

The every-day usages of language do not at first sight seem to consistently observe this distinction.
When a boy says, "I remember my lesson," he appears to be thinking of the present only, and
not referring to the past. In truth, however, there is a vague reference to the fact of retaining
a piece of knowledge through a given interval of time.

Again, when a man says, "I recollect your face," this means, "Your face seems familiar to me."
Here again, though there is no definite reference to the past, there is a vague and indefinite one.

It is plain from this definition that recollection is involved in all recognition or identification.
Merely to be aware that I have seen a person before implies a minimum exercise of memory. Yet
we may roughly distinguish the two actions of perception and recollection in the process of
recognition. The mere recognition of an object does not imply the presence of a distinct representative
or mnemonic image. In point of fact, in so far as recognition is assimilation, it cannot be
said to imply a distinct act of memory at all. It is only when similarity is perceived amid
difference, only when the accompaniments or surroundings of the object as previously seen,
differencing it from the object as now seen, are brought up to the mind that we may be said
distinctly to recall the past. And our state of mind in recognizing an object or person is
commonly an alternation between these two acts of separating the mnemonic image from the percept
and so recalling or recollecting the past, and fusing the image and the percept in what is
specifically marked off as recognition.[113]

Although I have spoken of memory as a reinstatement in representative form of external experience,
the term must be understood to include every revival of a past experience, whether external
or internal, which is recognized as a revival. In a general way, the recallings of our internal
feelings take place in close connection with the recollection of external circumstances or
events, and so they may be regarded as largely conditioned by the laws of this second kind
of reproduction.

The old conceptions of mind, which regarded every mental phenomenon as a manifestation of an
occult spiritual substance, naturally led to the supposition that an act of recollection involves
the continued, unbroken existence of the reproductive or mnemonic image in the hidden regions
of the mind. To recollect is, according to this view, to draw the image out of the dark vaults
of unconscious mind into the upper chamber of illumined consciousness.

Modern psychology recognizes no such pigeonhole apparatus in unconscious mind. On the purely
psychical side, memory is nothing but an occasional reappearance of a past mental experience.
And the sole mental conditions of this reappearance are to be found in the circumstances of
the moment of the original experience and in those of the moment of the reappearance.

Among these are to be specially noted, first of all, the degree of impressiveness of the original
experience, that is to say, the amount of interest it awakened and of attention it excited.
The more impressive any experience, the greater the chances of its subsequent revival. Moreover,
the absence of impressiveness in the original experience may be made good either by a repetition
of the actual experience or, in the case of non-recurring experiences, by the fact of previous
mnemonic revivals.

In the second place, the pre-existing mental states at the time of revival are essential conditions.
It is now known that every recollection is determined by some link of association, that every
mnemonic image presents itself in consciousness only when it has been preceded by some other
mental state, presentative or representative, which is related to the image. This relation
may be one of contiguity, that is to say, the original experiences may have occurred at the
same time or in close succession; or one of similarity (partial and not amounting to identity),
as where the sight of one place or person recalls that of another place or person. Finally,
it is to be observed that recollection is often an act, in the full sense of that term, involving
an effort of voluntary attention at the moment of revival.

Modern physiology has done much towards helping us to understand the nervous conditions of
memory. The biologist regards memory as a special phase of a universal property of organic
structure, namely, modifiability by the exercise of function, or the survival after any particular
kind of activity of a disposition to act again in that particular way. The revival of a mental
impression in the weaker form of an image is thus, on its physical side, due in part to this
remaining functional disposition in the central nervous tracts concerned. And so, while on
the psychical or subjective side we are unable to find anything permanent in memory, on the
physical or objective side we do find such a permanent substratum.

With respect to the special conditions of mnemonic revival at any time, physiology is less
explicit. In a general way, it informs us that such a reinstatement of the past is determined
by the existence of certain connections between the nervous structures concerned in the reviving
and revived mental elements. Thus, it is said that when the sound of a name calls up in the
mind a visual image of a person seen some time since, it is because connections have been formed
between particular regions and modes of activity of the auditory and the visual centres. And
it is supposed that the existence of such connections is somehow due to the fact that the two
regions acted simultaneously in the first instance, when the sight of the person was accompanied
by the hearing of his name. In other words, the centres, as a whole, will tend to act at any
future moment in the same complex way in which they have acted in past moments.

All this is valuable hypothesis so far as it goes, though it plainly leaves much unaccounted
for. As to why this reinstatement of a total cerebral pulsation in consequence of the re-excitation
of a portion of the same should be accompanied by the specific mode of consciousness which
we call recollection of something past, it is perhaps unreasonable to ask of physiology any
sort of explanation.[114]

Thus far as to the general or essential characteristics of memory on its mental and its bodily
side. But what we commonly mean by memory is, on its psychical side at least, much more than
this. We do not say that we properly recollect a thing unless we are able to refer it to some
more or less clearly defined region of the past, and to localize it in the succession of experiences
making up our mental image of the past. In other words, though we may speak of an imperfect
kind of recollection where this definite reference is wanting, we mean by a perfect form of
memory something which includes this reference.

Without entering just now upon a full analysis of what this reference to a particular region
of the past means, I may observe that it takes place by help of an habitual retracing of the
past, or certain portions of it, that is to say, a regressive movement of the imagination along
the lines of our actual experience. Setting out from the present moment, I can move regressively
to the preceding state of consciousness, to the penultimate, and so on. The fact that each
distinct mental state is continuous with the preceding and the succeeding, and in a certain
sense overlaps these, makes any portion of our experience essentially a succession of states
of consciousness, involving some rudimentary idea of time. And thus, whether I anticipate a
future event or recall a past one, my imagination, setting out from the present moment, constructs
a sequence of experiences of which the one particularly dwelt on is the other term or boundary.
And our idea of the position of this last in time, like that of an object in space, is one
of a relation to our present position, and is determined by the length of the sequence of experiences
thus run over by the imagination.[115] It may be added that since the imagination can much
more easily follow the actual order of experience than conceive it as reversed, the retrospective
act of memory naturally tends to complete itself by a return movement forwards from the remembered
event to the present moment.

In practice this detailed retracing of successive moments of mental life is confined to very
recent experiences. If I try to localize in time a remote event, I am content with placing
it in relation to a series of prominent events or landmarks which serves me as a rough scheme
of the past. The formation of such a mnemonic framework is largely due to the needs of social
converse, which proceeds by help of a common standard of reference. This standard is supplied
by those objective, that is to say, commonly experienced regularities of succession which constitute
the natural and artificial divisions of the years, seasons, months, weeks, etc. The habit of
recurring to these fixed divisional points of the past renders a return of imagination to any
one of them more and more easy. A man has a definite idea of "a year ago" which the child wants,
just because he has had so frequently to execute that vague regressive movement by which the
idea arises. And though, as our actual point in time moves forward, the relative position of
any given landmark is continually changing, the change easily adapts itself to that scheme
of time-divisions which holds good for any present point.

Few of our recollections of remote events involve a definite reference to this system of landmarks.
The recollections of early life are, in the case of most people, so far as they depend on individual
memory, very vaguely and imperfectly localized. And many recent experiences which are said
to be half forgotten, are not referred to any clearly assignable position in time. One may
say that in average cases definite localization characterizes only such supremely interesting
personal experiences as spontaneously recur again and again to the mind. For the rest it is
confined to those facts and events of general interest to which our social habits lead us repeatedly
to go back.[116]

The consciousness of personal identity is said to be bound up with memory. That is to say,
I am conscious of a continuous permanent self under all the varying surface-play of the stream
of consciousness, just because I can, by an act of recollection, bring together any two portions
of this stream of experience, and so recognize the unbroken continuity of the whole. If this
is so, it would seem to follow from the very fragmentary character of our recollections that
our sense of identity is very incomplete. As we shall see presently, there is good reason to
look upon, this consciousness of continuous personal existence as resting only in part on memory,
and mainly on our independently formed representation of what has happened in the numberless
and often huge lacunæ of the past left by memory.

Having thus a rough idea of the mechanism of memory to guide us, we may be able to investigate
the illusions incident to the process.

Illusions of Memory.

By an illusion of memory we are to understand a false recollection or a wrong reference of
an idea to some region of the past. It might, perhaps, be roughly described as a wrong interpretation
of a special kind of mental image, namely, what I have called a mnemonic image.

Mnemonic illusion is thus distinct from mere forgetfulness or imperfect memory. To forget or
be doubtful about a past event is one thing; to seem to ourselves to remember it when we afterwards
find that the fact was otherwise than we represented it in the apparent act of recollection
is another thing. Indistinctness of recollection, or the decay of memory, is, as we shall soon
see, an important co-operant condition of mnemonic illusion, but does not constitute it, any
more than haziness of vision or disease of the visual organ, though highly favourable to optical
illusion, can be said to constitute it.

We may conveniently proceed in our detailed examination of illusions of memory, by distinguishing
between three facts which appear to be involved in every complete and accurate process of recollection.
When I distinctly recall an event, I am immediately sure of three things: (1) that something
did really happen to me; (2) that it happened in the way I now think; and (3) that it happened
when it appears to have happened. I cannot be said to recall a past event unless I feel sure
on each of these points. Thus, to be able to say that an event happened at a particular date,
and yet unable to describe how it happened, means that I have a very incomplete recollection.
The same is true when I can recall an event pretty distinctly, but fail to assign it its proper
date. This being so, it follows that there are three possible openings, and only three, by
which errors of memory may creep in. And, as a matter of fact, each of these openings will
be found to let in one class of mnemonic illusion. Thus we have (1) false recollections, to
which there correspond no real events of personal history; (2) others which misrepresent the
manner of happening of the events; and (3) others which falsify the date of the events remembered.

It is obvious, from a mere glance at this threefold classification, that illusions of memory
closely correspond to visual illusions. Thus, class (1) may be likened to the optical illusions
known as subjective sensations of light, or ocular spectra. Here we can prove that there is
nothing actually seen in the field of vision, and that the semblance of a visible object arises
from quite another source than that of ordinary external light-stimulation, and by what may
be called an accident. Similarly, in the case of the first class of mnemonic illusions, we
shall find that there is nothing actually recollected, but that the mnemonic spectra or phantoms
of recollected objects can be accounted for in quite another way. Such illusions come nearest
to hallucinations in the region of memory.

Again, class (2) has its visual analogue in those optical illusions which depend on effects
of haziness and of the action of refracting media interposed between the eye and the object;
in which cases, though there is some real thing corresponding to the perception, this is seen
in a highly defective, distorted, and misleading form. In like manner, we can say that the
images of memory often get obscured, distorted, and otherwise altered when they have receded
into the dim distance, and are looked back upon through a long space of intervening mental
experience. Finally, class (3) has its visual counterpart in erroneous perceptions of distance,
as when, for example, owing to the clearness of the mountain atmosphere and the absence of
intervening objects, the side of the Jungfrau looks to the inexperienced tourist at Wengernalp
hardly further than a stone's throw. It will be found that when our memory falsifies the date
of an event, the error arises much in the same way as a visual miscalculation of distance.

This threefold division of illusions of memory is plainly a rather superficial one, and not
based on distinctions of psychological nature or origin. In order to make our treatment of
the subject scientific as well as popular, it will be necessary to introduce the distinction
between the passive and the active factor under each head. It will be found, I think, without
forcing the analogy too far, that here, as in the case of the illusions of perception and introspection,
error is attributable now to misleading suggestion on the part of the mental content of the
moment, now to a process of incorporating into this content a mental image not suggested by
it, but existing independently.

If we are to proceed as we did in the case of the illusions of sense, and take up the lower
stages of error first of all, we shall need to begin with the third class of errors, those
of localization in time, or of what may be called mnemonic perspective. It has been already
observed that the definite localization of a mnemonic image is only an occasional accompaniment
of what is loosely called recollection. Hence, error as to the position of an event in the
past chain of events would seem to involve the least degree of violation of the confidence
which we are wont to repose in memory. After this, we may proceed to the discussion of the
second class, which I may call distortions of the mnemonic picture. And, finally, we may deal
with the most signal and palpable variety of error of memory, namely, the illusions which I
have called mnemonic spectra.

Illusions of Perspective: A. Definite Localization.

In order to understand these errors of mnemonic perspective, we shall have to inquire more
closely than we have yet done into the circumstances which customarily determine our idea of
the degree of propinquity or of remoteness of a past event. And first of all, we will take
the case of a complete act of recollection when the mind is able to travel back along an uninterrupted
series of experiences to a definitely apprehended point. Here there would seem, at first sight,
to be no room for error, since this movement of retrospective imagination may be said to involve
a direct measurement of the distance, just as a sweep of the eye over the ground between a
spectator and an object affords a direct measurement of the intervening space.

Modern science, however, tells us that this mode of measurement is by no means the simple and
accurate process which it at first seems to be. In point of fact, there is something like a
constant error in all such retrospective measurement. Vierordt has proved experimentally, by
making a person try to reproduce the varying time-intervals between the strokes of the pendulum
of a metronome, that when the interval is a very small one, we uniformly tend to exaggerate
it in retrospection; when a large one, to regard it, on the contrary, as less than it actually
was.[117]

A mere act of reflection will convince any one that when he tries to conceive a very small
interval, say a quarter of a second, he is likely to make it too great. On the other hand,
when we try to conceive a year, we do not fully grasp the whole extent of the duration. This
is proved by the fact that merely by spending more time over the attempt, and so recalling
a larger number of the details of the period, we very considerably enlarge our first estimate
of the duration. And this leads to great discrepancies in the appreciation of the relative
magnitudes of past sections of time. Thus, as Wundt observes, though in retrospect both a month
and a year seem too short, the latter is relatively much more shortened than the former.[118]

The cause of this constant error in the mode of reproducing durations seems to be connected
with the very nature of the reproductive act. It must be borne in mind that this act is itself,
like the experience which it represents, a mental process, occupying time, and that consequently
it may very possibly reflect its time-character on the resulting judgment. Thus, since it certainly
takes more than a quarter of a second to pass in imagination from one impression to another,
it may be that we tend to confound this duration with that which we try to represent. Similarly,
the fact that in the act of reproductive imagination we under-estimate a longer interval between
two impressions, say those of the slow beats of a colliery engine, may be accounted for by
the supposition that the imagination tends to pass from the one impression to the succeeding
one too rapidly.[119]

The gross misappreciation of duration of long periods of time, while it may illustrate the
principle just touched on, clearly involves the effect of other and more powerful influences.
A mere glance at what is in our mind when we recall such a period as a month or a year, shows
that there is no clear concrete representation at all. Time, it has been often said, is known
only so far as filled with concrete contents or conscious experiences, and a perfect imagination
of any particular period of past time would involve a retracing of all the successive experiences
which have gone to make up this section of our life. This, I need not say, never happens, both
because, on the one hand, memory does not allow of a complete reproduction of any segment of
our experience, and because, on the other hand, such an imaginative reproduction, even if possible,
would clearly occupy as much time as the experience itself.[120]

When I call up an image of the year just closing, what really happens is a rapid movement of
imagination over a series of prominent events, among which the succession of seasons probably
occupies the foremost place, serving, as I have remarked, as a framework for my retrospective
picture. Each of the events which I thus run over is really a long succession of shorter experiences,
which, however, I do not separately represent to myself. My imaginative reproduction of such
a period is thus essentially a greatly abbreviated and symbolic mode of representation. It
by no means corresponds to the visual imagination of a large magnitude, say that of the length
of sea horizon visible at any one moment, which is complete in an instant, and quite independent
of a successive imagination of its parts or details. It is essentially a very fragmentary and
defective numerical idea, in which, moreover, the real quantitative value of the units is altogether
lost sight of.

Now, it seems to follow from this that there is something illusory in all our recallings of
long periods of the past. It is by no means strictly correct to say that memory ever reinstates
the past. It is more true to say that we see the past in retrospect as greatly foreshortened.
Yet even this is hardly an accurate account of what takes place, since, when we look at an
object foreshortened in perspective, we see enough to enable us imaginatively to reconstruct
the actual size of the object, whereas in the case of time-perspective no such reconstruction
is even indirectly possible.

It is to be added that this constant error in time-reproduction is greater in the case of remote
periods than of near ones of the same length. Thus, the retrospective estimate of a duration
far removed from the present, say the length of time passed at a particular school, is much
more superficial and fragmentary than that of a recent corresponding period. So that the time-vista
of the past is seen to answer pretty closely to a visible perspective in which the amount of
apparent error due to foreshortening increases with the distance.

In practice, however, this defect in the imagination of duration leads to no error. Although,
as a concrete image answering to some definite succession of experiences a year is a gross
misrepresentation, as a general concept implying a collection of a certain number of similar
successions of experience it is sufficiently exact. That is to say, though we cannot imagine
the absolute duration of any such cycle of experience, we can, by the simple device of conceiving
certain durations as multiples of others, perfectly well compare different periods of times,
and so appreciate their relative magnitudes.

Leaving, then, this constant error in time-appreciation, we will pass to the variable and more
palpable errors in the retrospective measurement of time. Each person's experience will have
told him that in estimating the distance of a past event by a mere retrospective sense of duration,
he is liable to extraordinary fluctuations of judgment. Sometimes when the clock strikes we
are surprised at the rapidity of the hour. At other times the timepiece seems rather to have
lagged behind its usual pace. And what is true of a short interval is still more true of longer
intervals, as months and years. The understanding of these fluctuations will be promoted by
our brief glance at the constant errors in retrospective time-appreciation.

And here it is necessary to distinguish between the sense of duration which we have during
any period, and the retrospective sense which survives the period, for these do not necessarily
agree. The former rests mainly on our prospective sense of time, whereas the latter must be
altogether retrospective.[121]

Our estimate of time as it passes is commonly said to depend on the amount of consciousness
which we are giving to the fact of its transition. Thus, when the mind is unoccupied and suffering
from ennui, we feel time to move sluggishly. On the other hand, interesting employment, by
diverting the thoughts from time, makes it appear to move at a more rapid pace. This fact is
shown in the common expressions which we employ, such as "to kill time," and the German Langweile.
Similarly, it is said that when we are eagerly anticipating an event, as the arrival of a friend,
the mere fact of dwelling on the interval makes it appear to swell out.[122]

This view is correct in the main, and is seen, indeed, to follow from the great psychological
principle that what we attend to exists for us more, has more reality, and so naturally seems
greater than what we do not attend to. At the same time, this principle must be supplemented
by another consideration. Suppose that I am very desirous that time should not pass quickly.
If, for example, I am enjoying myself or indulging in idleness, and know that I have to be
off to keep a not very agreeable engagement in a quarter of an hour, time will seem to pass
too rapidly; and this not because my thoughts are diverted from the fact of its transition,
for, on the contrary, they are reverting to it more than they usually do, but because my wish
to lengthen the interval leads me to represent the unwelcome moment as further off than it
actually is, in other words, to construct an ideal representation of the period in contrast
with which the real duration looks miserably short.

Our estimate of duration, when it is over, depends less on this circumstance of having attended
to its transition than on other considerations. Wundt, indeed, seems to think that the feeling
accompanying the actual flow of time has no effect on the surviving subjective appreciation;
but this must surely be an error, since our mental image of any period is determined by the
character of its contents. Wundt says that when once a tedious waiting is over, it looks short
because we instantly forget the feeling of tedium. My self-observation, as well as the interrogation
of others, has satisfied me, on the contrary, that this feeling distinctly colours the retrospective
appreciation. Thus, when waiting at a railway station for a belated train, I am distinctly
aware that each quarter of an hour looks long, not only as it passes, but when it is over.
In fact, I am disposed to express my feeling as one of disappointment that only so short an
interval has passed since I last looked at my watch.

Nevertheless, I am ready to allow that, though a feeling of tedium, or the contrary feeling
of irritation at the rapidity of time, will linger for an appreciable interval and colour the
retrospective estimate of time, this backward view is chiefly determined by other considerations.
As Wundt remarks, we have no sense of time's slowness during sleep, yet on waking we imagine
that we have been dreaming for an immensely long period. This retrospective appreciation is
determined by the number and the degree or intensity of the experiences, and, what comes very
much to the same thing, by the amount of unlikeness, freshness, and discontinuity characterizing
these experiences.

Time, as I have already hinted, is known under the form of a succession of different conscious
experiences. Unbroken uniformity would give us no sense of time, because it would give us no
conscious experience at all. Strictly speaking, there is no such thing as a perfectly uniform
mental state extending through an appreciable duration. In looking at one and the same object,
even in listening to one and the same tone, I am in no two successive fractions of a second
in exactly the same state of mind. Slight alterations in the strength of the sensation,[123]
in the degree or direction of attention, and in the composition of that penumbra of vague images
which it calls up, occur at every distinguishable fraction of time.

This being so, it would seem to follow that the greater the number of clearly marked changes,
and the more impressive and exciting these transitions, the fuller will be our sense of time.
And this is borne out by individual reflection. When striking and deeply interesting events
follow one another very rapidly, as when we are travelling, duration appears to swell out.

It is possible that such a succession of stirring experiences may beget a vague consciousness
of time at each successive moment, and apart from retrospection, simply by force of the change.
In other words, without our distinctly attending to time, a series of novel impressions might,
by giving us the consciousness of change, make us dimly aware of the numerical richness of
our experiences. But, however this be, there is no doubt that, in glancing back on such a succession
of exciting transitions of mental condition, time appears to expand enormously, just as it
does in looking back on our dream-experience, or that rapid series of intensified feelings
which, according to De Quincey and others, is produced by certain narcotics.

The reason of this is plain. Such a type of successive experience offers to the retrospective
imagination a large number of distinguishable points, and since this mode of estimating time
depends, as we have seen, on the extent of the process of filling in, time will necessarily
appear long in this case. On the other hand, when we have been engaged in very ordinary pursuits,
in which few deeply interesting or exciting events have impressed themselves on memory, our
retrospective picture will necessarily be very much of a blank, and consequently the duration
of the period will seem to be short.

I observed that this retrospective appreciation of time depended on the degree of connection
between the successive experiences. This condition is very much the same as the other just
given, namely, the degree of uniformity of the experiences, since the more closely the successive
stages of the experience are connected--as when, for example, we are going through our daily
routine of work--the more quiet and unexciting will be the transition from each stage to its
succeeding one. And on the other hand, all novelty of impression and exciting transition of
experience clearly involves a want of connection. Wundt thinks the retrospective estimate of
a connected series of experiences, such as those of our daily round of occupations, is defective
just because the effort of attention, which precedes even an imaginative reproduction of an
impression, so quickly accommodates itself in this case to each of the successive steps, whereas,
when the experiences to be recalled are disconnected, the effort requires more time. In this
way, the estimate of a past duration would be coloured by the sense of time accompanying the
reproductive process itself. This may very likely be the case, yet I should be disposed to
attach most importance to the number of distinguishable items of experience recalled.

Our representation of the position of a given event in the past is, as I have tried to show,
determined by the movement of imagination in going back to it from the present. And this is
the same thing as to say that it depends on our retrospective sense of the intervening space.
That is to say, the sense of distance in time, as in space, is the recognition of a term to
a movement. And just as the distance of an object will seem greater when there are many intervening
objects affording points of measurement, than when there are none (as on the uniform surface
of the sea), so the distance of an event will vary with the number of recognized intervening
points.

The appreciation of the distance of an event in time does not, however, wholly depend on the
character of this movement of imagination. Just as the apparent distance of a visible object
depends inter alia on the distinctness of the retinal impression, so the apparent temporal
remoteness of a past event depends in part on the degree of intensity and clearness of the
mnemonic image. This is seen even in the case of those images which we are able distinctly
to localize in the time-perspective. For a series of exciting experiences intervening between
the present and a past event appears not only directly to add to our sense of distance by constituting
an apparently long interval, but indirectly to add to it by giving an unusual degree of faintness
to the recalled image. An event preceding some unusually stirring series of experiences gets
thrust out of consciousness by the very engrossing nature of the new experiences, and so tends
to grow more faint and ghost-like than it would otherwise have done.

The full force of this circumstance is best seen in the fact that a very recent event, bringing
with it a deep mental shock and a rapid stirring of wide tracts of feeling and thought, may
get to look old in a marvellously short space of time. An announcement of the loss of a dear
friend, when sudden and deeply agitating, will seem remote even after an hour of such intense
emotional experience. And the same twofold consideration probably explains the well-known fact
that a year seems much shorter to the adult than to the child. The novel and comparatively
exciting impressions of childhood tend to fill out time in retrospect, and also to throw back
remote events into a dimly discernible region.

Now, this same circumstance, the degree of vividness or of faintness of the mnemonic image,
is that which determines our idea of distance when the character of the intervening experiences
produces no appreciable effect.[124] This is most strikingly illustrated in those imperfect
kinds of recollection in which we are unable to definitely localize the mnemonic image. To
the consideration of these we will now turn.

B. Indefinite Localization.

Speaking roughly and generally, we may say that the vividness of an image of memory decreases
in proportion as the distance of the event increases. And this is the rule which we unconsciously
apply in determining distance in time. Nevertheless, this rule gives us by no means an infallible
criterion of distance. The very fact that different people so often dispute about the dates
and the order of past events experienced in common, shows pretty plainly that images of the
same age tend to arise in the mind with very unequal degrees of vividness.

Sometimes pictures of very remote incidents may suddenly present themselves to our minds with
a singular degree of brightness and force. And when this is the case, there is a disposition
to think of them as near. If the relations of the event to other events preceding and succeeding
it are not remembered, this momentary illusion will persist. We have all heard persons exclaim,
"It seems only yesterday," under the sense of nearness which accompanies a recollection of
a remote event when vividly excited. The most familiar instance of such lively reproduction
is the feeling which we experience on revisiting the scene of some memorable event. At such
a time the past may return with something of the insistence of a present perceived reality.
In passing from place to place, in talking with others, and in reading, we are liable to the
sudden return by hidden paths of association of images of incidents that had long seemed forgotten,
and when they thus start up fresh and vigorous, away from their proper surroundings, they invariably
induce a feeling of the propinquity of the events.

In many cases we cannot say why these particular images, long buried in oblivion, should thus
suddenly regain so much vitality. There seems, indeed, to be almost as much that is arbitrary
and capricious in the selection by memory of its vivid images as in the selection of its images
as a whole; and, this being so, it is plain that we are greatly exposed to the risk of illusion
from this source.

There is an opposite effect in the case of recent occurrences that, for some reason or another,
have left but a faint impression on the memory; though this fact is not, perhaps, so familiar
as the other. I met a friend, we will suppose, a few days since at my club, and we exchanged
a few words. My mind was somewhat preoccupied at the time, and the occurrence did not stamp
itself on my recollection. To-day I meet him again, and he reminds me of a promise I made him
at the time. His reminder suffices to restore a dim image of the incident, but the fact of
its dimness leads to the illusion that it really happened much longer ago, and it is only on
my friend's strong assurances, and on reasoning from other data that it must have occurred
the day he mentions, that I am able to dismiss the illusion.

The most striking examples of the illusory effect of mere vividness, involving a complete detachment
of the event from the prominent landmarks of the past, are afforded by public events which
lie outside the narrower circle of our personal life, and which do not in the natural course
of things become linked to any definitely localized points in the field of memory. These events
may be very stirring and engrossing for the time, but in many cases they pass out of the mind
just as suddenly as they entered it. We have no occasion to revert to them, and if by chance
we are afterwards reminded of them, they are pretty certain to look too near, just because
the fact of their having greatly interested us has served to render their images particularly
vivid.

A curious instance of this illusory effect was supplied not long since by the case of the ex-detectives,
the expiration of whose term of punishment (three years) served as an occasion for the newspapers
to recall the event of their trial and conviction. The news that three years had elapsed since
this well-remembered occurrence proved very startling to myself, and to a number of my friends,
all of us agreeing that the event did not seem to be at more than a third of its real distance.
More than one newspaper commented on the apparent rapidity of the time, and this shows pretty
plainly that there was some cause at work, such as I have suggested, producing a common illusion.

I have treated of these illusions connected with the estimate of past time and the dating of
past events as passive illusions, not involving any active predisposition on the part of the
imagination. At the same time, it is possible that error in these matters may occasionally
depend on a present condition of the feelings and the imagination. It seems plain that since
the apparent degree of remoteness of an event not distinctly localized in the past varies inversely
as the degree of vividness of the mnemonic image, any conscious concentration of mind on a
recollection will tend to bring it too near. In this way, then, an illusory propinquity may
be given to a recalled event through a mere desire to dwell on it, or even a capricious wish
to deceive one's self.

When, for example, old friends come together and talk over the days of yore, there is a gradual
reinstatement of seemingly lost experiences, which often partakes of the character of a semi-voluntary
process of self-delusion. Through the cumulative effect of mutual reminder, incident after
incident returns, adding something to the whole picture till it acquires a degree of completeness,
coherence, and vividness that render it hardly distinguishable from a very recent experience.
The process is like looking at a distant object through a field-glass. Mistiness disappears,
fresh details come into view, till we seem to ourselves to be almost within reach of the object.

Where the mind habitually goes back to some painful circumstance under the impulse of a morbid
disposition to nurse regret, this momentary illusion may become recurring, and amount to a
partial confusion of the near and the remote in our experience. An injury long brooded on seems
at length a thing that continually moves forward as we move; it always presents itself to our
memories as a very recent event. In states of insanity brought on by some great shock, we see
this morbid tendency to resuscitate the dead past fully developed, and remote events and circumstances
becoming confused with present ones.

On the other hand, in more healthy states of mind there presents itself an exactly opposite
tendency, namely, an impulse of the will to banish whatever when recalled gives pain to the
furthest conceivable regions of the past. Thus, when we have lost something we cherished dearly,
and the recollection of it brings fruitless longing, we instinctively seek to expel the recollection
from our minds. The very feeling that what has been can never again be, seems to induce this
idea of a vast remoteness of the vanished reality. When, moreover, the lost object was fitted
to call forth the emotion of reverence, the impulse to magnify the remoteness of the loss may
not improbably be reinforced by the circumstance that everything belonging to the distant past
is fitted on that account to excite a feeling akin to reverence. So, again, any rupture in
our mental development may lead us to exaggerate the distance of some past portion of our experience.
When we have broken with our former selves, either in the way of worsening or bettering, we
tend to project these further into the past.

It is only when the sting of the recollection is removed, when, for example, the calling up
of the image of a lost friend is no longer accompanied with the bitterness of futile longing,
that a healthy mind ventures to nourish recollections of such remote events and to view these
as part of its recent experiences. In this case the mnemonic image becomes transformed into
a kind of present emotional possession, an element of that idealized and sublimated portion
of our experience with which all imaginative persons fill up the emptiness of their actual
lives, and to which the poet is wont to give an objective embodiment in his verse.

Distortions of Memory.

It is now time to pass to the second group of illusions of memory, which, according to the
analogy of visual errors, may be called atmospheric illusions. Here the degree of error is
greater than in the case of illusions of time-perspective, since the very nature of the events
or circumstances is misconceived. We do not recall the event as it happened, but see it in
part only, and obscured, or bent and distorted as by a process of refraction. Indeed, this
transformation of the past does closely correspond with the transformation of a visible object
effected by intervening media. Our minds are such refracting media, and the past reappears
to us not as it actually was when it was close to us, but in numerous ways altered and disguised
by the intervening spaces of our conscious experience.

To begin with, what we call recollection is uniformly a process of softening the reality. When
we appear to ourselves to realize events of the remote past, it is plain that our representation
in a general way falls below the reality: the vividness, the intensity of our impressions disappears.
More particularly, so far as our experiences are emotional, they tend thus to become toned
down by the mere lapse of time and the imperfections of our reproductive power. That which
we seem to see in the act of recollection is thus very different from the reality.

Not only is there this general deficiency in mnemonic representation, there are special deficiencies
due to the fact of oblivescence. Our memories restore us only fragments of our past life. And
just as objects seen imperfectly at a great distance may assume a shape quite unlike their
real one, so an inadequate representation of a past event by memory often amounts to misrepresentation.
When revisiting a place that we have not seen for many years, we are apt to find that our recollection
of it consisted only of some insignificant details, which arranged themselves in our minds
into something oddly unlike the actual scene. So, too, some accidental accompaniment of an
incident in early life is preserved, as though it were the main feature, serving to give quite
a false colouring to the whole occurrence.

It seems quite impossible to account for these particular survivals, they appear to be so capricious.
When a little time has elapsed after an event, and the attendant circumstances fade away from
memory, it is often difficult to say why we were impressed with it as we afterwards prove to
have been. It is no doubt possible to see that many of the recollections of our childhood owe
their vividness to the fact of the exceptional character of the events; but this cannot always
be recognized. Some of them seem to our mature minds very oddly selected, although no doubt
there are in every case good reasons, if we could only discover them, why those particular
incidents rather than any others should have been retained.

The liability to error resulting from mere oblivescence and the arbitrary selection of mental
images is seen most plainly, perhaps, in our subsequent representation and estimate of whole
periods of early life. Our idea of any stage of our past history, as early childhood, or school
days, is built up out of a few fragmentary intellectual relics which cannot be certainly known
to answer to the most important and predominant experiences of the time. When, for example,
we try to decide whether our school days were our happiest days, as is so often alleged, it
is obvious that we are liable to fall into illusion through the inadequacy of memory to preserve
characteristic or typical features, and none but these. We cannot easily recall the ordinary
every-day level of feeling of a distant period of life, but rather think of exceptional moments
of rejoicing or depression. The ordinary man's idea of the emotional experience of his school
days is probably built up out of a few scrappy recollections of extraordinary and exciting
events, such as unexpected holidays, success in the winning of prizes, famous "rows" with the
masters, and so on.

Besides the impossibility of getting at the average and prevailing mental tone of a distant
section of life, there is a special difficulty in determining the degree of happiness of the
past, arising from the fact that our memory for pleasures and for pains may not be equally
good. Most people, perhaps, can recall the enjoyments of the past much more vividly than the
sufferings. On the other hand, there seem to be some who find the retention of the latter the
easier of the two. This fact should not be forgotten in reading the narrative of early hardships
which some recent autobiographies have given us.

Not only does our idea of the past become inexact by the mere decay and disappearance of essential
features, it becomes positively incorrect through the gradual incorporation of elements that
do not properly belong to it. Sometimes it is easy to see how these extraneous ideas get imported
into our mental representation of a past event. Suppose, for example, that a man has lost a
valuable scarf-pin. His wife suggests that a particular servant, whose reputation does not
stand too high, has stolen it. When he afterwards recalls the loss, the chances are that he
will confuse the fact with the conjecture attached to it, and say he remembers that this particular
servant did steal the pin. Thus, the past activity of imagination serves to corrupt and partially
falsify recollections that have a genuine basis of fact.

It is evident that this class of mnemonic illusions approximates in character to illusions
of perception. When the imagination supplies the interpretation at the very time, and the mind
reads this into the perceived object, the error is one of perception. When the addition is
made afterwards, on reflecting upon the perception, the error is one of memory. The "fallacies
of testimony" which depend on an adulteration of pure observation with inference and conjecture,
as, for example, the inaccurate and wild statements of people respecting their experiences
at spiritualist séances, while they illustrate the curious blending of both kinds of error,
are probably much oftener illusions of memory than of perception.[125]

Although in many cases we can account to ourselves for this confusion of fact and imagination,
in other cases it is difficult to see any close relation between the fact remembered and the
foreign element imported into it. An idea of memory seems sometimes to lose its proper moorings,
so to speak; to drift about helplessly among other ideas, and finally, by some chance, to hook
itself on to one of these, as though it naturally belonged to it. Anybody who has had an opportunity
of carefully testing the truthfulness of his recollection of some remote event in early life
will have found how oddly extraneous elements become incorporated into the memorial picture.
Incidents get put into wrong places, the wrong persons are introduced into a scene, and so
on. Here again we may illustrate the mnemonic illusion by a visual one. When a tree standing
before or behind a house and projecting above or to the side of it is not sharply distinguished
from the latter, it may serve to give it a very odd appearance.

These confusions of the mental image may arise even when only a short interval has elapsed.
In the case of many of the fleeting impressions that are only half recollected, this kind of
error is very easy. Thus, for example, I may have lent a book to a friend last week. I really
remember the act of lending it, but have forgotten the person. But I am not aware of this.
The picture of memory has unknowingly to myself been filled up by this unconscious process
of shifting and rearrangement, and the idea of another person has by some odd accident got
substituted for that of the real borrower. If we could go deeply enough into the matter, we
should, of course, be able to explain why this particular confusion arose. We might find, for
example, that the two persons were associated in my mind by a link of resemblance, or that
I had dealings with the other person about the same time. Similarly, when we manage to join
an event to a wrong place, we may find that it is because we heard of the occurrence when staying
at the particular locality, or in some other way had the image of the place closely associated
in our minds with the event. But often we are wholly unable to explain the displacement.

So far I have been speaking of the passive processes by which the past comes to wear a new
face to our imaginations. In these our present habits of feeling and thinking take no part;
all is the work of the past, of the decay of memory, and the gradual confusion of images. This
process of disorganization may be likened to the action of damp on some old manuscript, obliterating
some parts, altering the appearance of others, and even dislocating certain portions. Besides
this passive process of transformation, there is a more active one in which our present minds
co-operate. In memory, as in perception and introspection, there is a process of preparation
or preadjustment of mind, and here will be found room for what I had called active error. This
may be illustrated by the operation of "interpreting" an old manuscript which has got partially
obliterated, or of "restoring" a faded picture; in each of which operations error will be pretty
sure to creep in through an importation of the restorer's own ideas into the relic of the past.

Just as when distant objects are seen mistily our imaginations come into play, leading us to
fancy that we see something completely and distinctly, so when the images of memory become
dim, our present imagination helps to restore them, putting a new patch into the old garment.
If only there is some relic of the past event preserved, a bare suggestion of the way in which
it may have happened will often suffice to produce the conviction that it actually did happen
in this way. The suggestions that naturally arise in our minds at such times will bear the
stamp of our present modes of experience and habits of thought. Hence, in trying to reconstruct
the remote past, we are constantly in danger of importing our present selves into our past selves.

The kind of illusion of memory which thus depends on the spontaneous or independent activity
of present imagination is strikingly illustrated in the curious cases of mistaken identity
with which the proceedings of our law courts supply us from time to time. When a witness in
good faith, but erroneously, affirms that a man is the same as an old acquaintance of his,
we may feel sure that there is some striking point or points of similarity between the two
persons. But this of itself would only partly account for the illusion, since we often see
new faces that, by a number of curious points of affinity, call up in a tantalizing way old
and familiar ones. What helps in this case to produce the illusion is the preconception that
the present man is the witness's old friend. That is to say, his recollection is partly true,
though largely false. He does really recall the similar feature, movement, or tone of voice;
he only seems to himself to recall the rest of his friend's appearance; for, to speak correctly,
he projects the present impression into the past, and constructs his friend's face out of elements
supplied by the new one. Owing to this cause, an illusion of memory is apt to multiply itself,
one man's assertion of what happened producing by contagion a counterfeit of memory's record
in other minds.

I said just now that we tend to project our present modes of experience into the past. We paint
our past in the hues of the present. Thus we imagine that things which impressed us in some
remote period of life must answer to what is impressive in our present stage of mental development.
For example, a person recalls a hill near the home of his childhood, and has the conviction
that it was of great height. On revisiting the place he finds that the eminence is quite insignificant.
How can we account for this? For one thing, it is to be observed that to his undeveloped childish
muscles the climbing to the top meant a considerable expenditure of energy, to be followed
by a sense of fatigue. The man remembers these feelings, and "unconsciously reasoning" by present
experience, that is to say, by the amount of walking which would now produce this sense of
fatigue, imagines that the height was vastly greater than it really was. Another reason is,
of course, that a wider knowledge of mountains has resulted in a great alteration of the man's
standard of height.

From this cause arises a tendency generally to exaggerate the impressions of early life. Youth
is the period of novel effects, when all the world is fresh, and new and striking impressions
crowd in thickly on the mind. Consequently, it takes much less to produce a given amount of
mental excitation in childhood than in after-life. In looking back on this part of our history,
we recall for the most part just those events and scenes which deeply stirred our minds by
their strangeness, novelty, etc., and so impressed themselves on the tablet of our memory;
and it is this sense of something out of the ordinary beat that gives the characteristic colour
to our recollection. In other words, we remember something as wonderful, admirable, exceptionally
delightful, and so on, rather than as a definitely imagined event. This being so, we unconsciously
transform the past occurrence by reasoning from our present standard of what is impressive.
Who has not felt an unpleasant disenchantment on revisiting some church, house, or park that
seemed a wondrous paradise to his young eyes? All our feelings are capable of leading us into
this kind of illusion. What seemed beautiful or awful to us as children, is now pictured in
imagination as corresponding to what moves our mature minds to delight or awe. One cannot help
wondering what we should think of our early heroes or heroines if we could see them again with
our adult eyes exactly as they were.

While the past may thus take on an illusory hue through the very progress of our experience
and our emotional life, it may become further transformed by a more conscious process, namely,
the idealizing touch of a present feeling. The way in which the emotions of love, reverence,
and so on, thus transform their lost objects is too well known to need illustration. Speaking
generally, we may say that in healthy minds the play of these impulses of feeling results in
a softening of the harsher features of the past, and in an idealization of its happier and
brighter aspects. As Wordsworth says, we may assign to Memory a pencil--

  "That, softening objects, sometimes even
     Outstrips the heart's demand;

  "That smoothes foregone distress, the lines
     Of lingering care subdues,
   Long-vanished happiness refines,
     And clothes in brighter hues."[126]

Enough has now been said, perhaps, to show in how many ways our retrospective imagination transforms
the actual events of our past life. So thoroughly, indeed, do the relics of this past get shaken
together in new kaleidoscopic combinations, so much of the result of later experiences gets
imported into our early years, that it may well be asked whether, if the record of our actual
life were ever read out to us, we should be able to recognize it. It looks as though we could
be sure of recalling only recent events with any degree of accuracy and completeness. As soon
as they recede at any considerable distance from us, they are subject to a sort of atmospheric
effect. Much grows indistinct and drops altogether out of sight, and what is still seen often
takes a new and grotesquely unlike shape. More than this, the play of fancy, like the action
of some refracting medium, bends and distorts the outlines of memory's objects, making them
wholly unlike the originals.

Hallucinations of Memory.

We will now go on to the third class of mnemonic error, which I have called the spectra of
memory, where there is not simply a transformation of the past event, but a complete imaginative
creation of it. This class of error corresponds, as I have observed, to an hallucination in
the region of sense-perception. And just as we distinguished between those hallucinations of
sense which arise first of all through some peripherally caused subjective sensation, and those
which want even this element of reality and depend altogether on the activity of imagination,
so we may mark off two classes of mnemonic hallucination. The false recollection may correspond
to something past--and to this extent be a recollection--though not to any objective fact,
but only to a subjective representation of such a fact, as, for example, a dream. In this case
the imitation of the mnemonic process may be very definite and complete. Or the false recollection
may be wholly a retrojection of a present mental image, and so by no stretch of language be
deserving of the name recollection.

It is doubtful whether by any effort of will a person could bring himself to regard a figment
of his present imagination as representative of a past reality. Definite and complete hallucinations
of this sort do not in normal circumstances arise. It seems necessary for a complete illusion
of memory that there should be something past and recovered at the moment, though this may
not be a real personal experience.[127] On the other hand, it is possible, as we shall presently
see, under certain circumstances, to create out of present materials, and in a vague and indefinite
shape, pure phantoms of past experience, that is to say, quasi-mnemonic images to which there
correspond no past occurrences whatever.

All recollection, as we have seen, takes place by means of a present mental image which returns
with a certain degree of vividness, and is instantaneously identified with some past event.
In many cases this instinctive process of identification proves to be legitimate, for, as a
matter of fact, real impressions are the first and the commonest source of such lively mnemonic
images. But it is not always so. There are other sources of our mental imagery which compete,
so to speak, with the region of real personal experience. And sometimes these leave behind
them a vivid image having all the appearance of a genuine mnemonic image. When this is so,
it is impossible by a mere introspective glance to detect the falsity of the message from the
past. We are in the same position as the purchaser in a jet market, where a spurious commodity
has got inextricably mixed up with the genuine, and there is no ready criterion by which he
can distinguish the true from the false. Such a person, if he purchases freely, is pretty sure
to make a number of mistakes. Similarly, all of us are liable to take counterfeit mnemonic
images for genuine ones; that is to say, to fall into an illusion of "recollecting" what never
really took place.

But what, it may be asked, are these false and illegitimate sources of mnemonic images, these
unauthorized mints which issue a spurious mental coinage, and so confuse the genuine currency?
They consist of two regions of our internal mental life, which most closely resemble the actual
perception of real things in vividness and force, namely, dream-consciousness and waking imagination.
Each of these may introduce into the mind vivid images which afterwards tend, under certain
circumstances, to assume the guise of recollections of actual events.

That our dream-experience may now and again lead us into illusory recollection has already
been hinted. And it is easy to understand why this is so. When dreaming we have, as we have
seen, a mental experience which closely approximates in intensity and reality to that of waking
perception. Consequently, dreams may leave behind them, for a time, vivid images which simulate
the appearance of real images of memory. Most of us, perhaps, have felt this after-effect of
dreaming on our waking thoughts. It is sometimes very hard to shake off the impression left
by a vivid dream, as, for example, that a dead friend has returned to life. During the day
that follows the dream, we have at intermittent moments something like an assurance that we
have seen our lost friend; and though we immediately correct the impression by reflecting that
we are recalling but a dream, it tends to revive within us with a strange pertinacity.

In addition to this proximate effect of a dream in disturbing the normal process of recollection,
there is reason to suppose that dreams may exert a more remote effect on our memories. So widely
different in its form is our dreaming from our waking experience, that our dreams are rarely
recalled as wholes with perfect distinctness. They revive in us only as disjointed fragments,
and only for brief moments when some accidental resemblance in the present happens to stir
the latent trace they have left on our minds. We get sudden flashes out of our dream-world,
and the process is too rapid, too incomplete for us to identify the region whence the flashes come.

It is highly probable that our dreams are, to a large extent, answerable for the sense of familiarity
that we sometimes experience in visiting a new locality or in seeing a new face. If, as we
have found some of the best authorities saying, we are, when asleep, always dreaming more or
less distinctly, and if, as we know, dreaming is a continual process of transformation of our
waking impressions in new combinations, it is not surprising that our dreams should sometimes
take the form of forecasts of our waking life, and that consequently objects and scenes of
this life never before seen should now and again wear a familiar look.

