Next; of what nature and extent is this Something, this Being, likely to be?--There will be
either one such being, or many: if many, the many either sprang from the one, or the mass are
all self-existent; in the former case, there would be a creation and a God: in the latter,
there would be many Gods. Is the latter antecedently more probable?--let us see. First, it
is evident that if many are probable, few are more probable, and one most probable of all.
The more possible gods you take away, the more do impediments diminish; until, that is to say,
you arrive at that One Being, whom we have already proved probable. Moreover, many must be
absolutely united as one; in which case the many is a gratuitous difficulty, because they may
as well be regarded for all purposes of worship or argument as one God: or the many must have
been in essence more or less disunited; in which case, as a state of any thing short of pure
concord carries in itself the seeds of dissolution, needs must that one or other of the many
(long before any possible beginnings, as we count beginnings, looking down the past vista of
eternity), would have taken opportunity by such disturbing causes to become absolute monarch:
whether by peaceful persuasion, or hostile compulsion, or other mode of absorbing disunions,
would be indifferent; if they were not all improbable, as unworthy of the God. Perpetuity of
discord is a thing impossible; every thing short of unity tends to decomposition. Any how then,
given the element of eternity to work in, a one great Supreme Being was, in the created beginning,
an à priori probability. That all other assumptions than that of His true and eternal Oneness
are as false in themselves as they are derogatory to the rational views of deity, we all now
see and believe; but the direct proofs of this are more strictly matters of revelation than
of reason: albeit reason too can discern their probabilities. Wise heathens, such as Socrates
and Cicero, who had not our light, arrived nevertheless at some of this perception; and thus,
through conscience and intelligence, became a law unto themselves: because that, to them, as
now to any one of us who may not yet have seen the light, the anterior likelihood existed for
only one God, rather than more; a likelihood which prepares the mind to take as a fundamental
truth, "The Lord our God is one Jehovah."

Next; Self-existence combined with unity must include the probable attribute, or character,
Ubiquity; as I now proceed to show. On the same principle as that by which we have seen Something
to be likelier than Nothing, we conclude that the same Something is more probable to be every
where, than the same Nothing (if the phrase were not absurd), to be any where: we may, so to
speak, divide infinity into spaces, and prove the position in each instance: moreover, as that
Something is essentially--not a unit as of many, but--unity involving all, it follows as most
probable that this Whole Being should be ubiquitous; in other parlance, that the one God should
be every where at once: also, there being no limit to what we call Space, nor any imaginable
hostile power to place a constraint upon the One Great Being, this Whole Being must be ubiquitous
to a degree strictly infinite: "HE is in every place, beholding the evil and the good."

Such a consideration (and it is a perfectly true one) renders necessary the next point, to
wit, that God is a Spirit. No possible substance can be every where at once: essence may, but
not substance. Corporeity in any shape must be local; local is finite; and we have just proved
the anterior probability of a One great Existence being (notwithstanding unity of essence)
infinite. Illocal and infinite are convertible terms: spirit is illocal; and, as God is infinite--that
is, illocal--it is clear that "God is a Spirit."

We have thus (not attempting to build up faith by such slight tools, but only using them to
cut away prejudice) arrived at the high probability of a God invested with His natural qualities
or attributes; Self-existence, Unity, the faculty of being every where at once and that every
where Infinitude; and essentially of a Spiritual nature, not material. His moral, or accidental
attributes (so to speak), were, antecedently to their expression, equally easy of being proved
probable. First, with respect to Power: given no disturbing cause--(we shall soon consider
the question of permitted evil, and its origin; but this, however disturbing to creatures,
will be found not only none to God, but, as it were, only a ray of His glory suffered to be
broken for prismatic beauty's sake, a flash of the direction of His energies suffered to be
diverted for the superior triumph of good in that day when it shall be shown that "God hath
made all things for himself, yea, even the wicked for the time of visitation")--with the datum
then of no disturbing cause obstructing or opposing, an infinite being must be able to do all
things within the sphere of such infinity: in other phrase, He must be all-powerful. Just so,
an impetus in vacuity suffers no check, but ever sails along among the fleet of worlds; and
the innate Impulse of the Deity must expand and energize throughout that infinitude, Himself.
For a like reason of ubiquity, God must know all things: it is impossible to escape from the
strong likelihood that any intelligent being must be conversant of what is going on under his
very eye. Again; in the case both of Power and Knowledge, alike with the coming attributes
of Goodness and Wisdom--(wisdom considered as morally distinct from mere knowledge or awaredness;
it being quite possible to conceive a cold eye seeing all things heedlessly, and a clear mind
knowing all things heartlessly)--in the case, I say, of all these accidental attributes, there
recurs for argument, one analogous to that by which we showed the anterior probability of a
self-existence. Things positive must precede things negative. Sight must have been, before
blindness is possible; and before we can arrive at a just idea of no sight. Power must be precursor
to an abstraction from power, or weakness. The minor-existence of ignorance is an impossibility,
unless you prëallow the major-existence of wisdom; for it amounts to a debasing or a diminution
of wisdom. Sin is well defined to be, the transgression of law; for without law, there can
be no sin. So, also, without wisdom, there can be no ignorance; without power, there can be
no weakness; without goodness, there can be no evil.

