THE GREAT CONSPIRACY

                         Its Origin and History

                                 Part 7

                                   BY

                               JOHN LOGAN

                            CHAPTER XXVIII.

                        FREEDOM AT LAST ASSURED.

As to the Military situation, a few words are, at this time, necessary: Hood had now marched
Northward, with some 50,000 men, toward Nashville, Tenn., while Sherman, leaving Thomas and
some 35,000 men behind, to thwart him, had abandoned his base, and was marching Southward from
Atlanta, through Georgia, toward the Sea.

On the 30th of November, 1864, General Schofield, in command of the 4th and 23rd Corps of Thomas's
Army, decided to make a stand against Hood's Army, at Franklin, in the angle of the Harpeth
river, in order to give time for the Union supply-trains to cross the river.  Here, with less
than 20,000 Union troops, behind some hastily constructed works, he had received the impetuous
and overwhelming assault of the Enemy--at first so successful as to threaten a bloody and disastrous
rout to the Union troops--and, by a brilliant counter-charge, and subsequent obstinate defensive-fighting,
had repulsed the Rebel forces, with nearly three times the Union losses, and withdrew the next
day in safety to the defenses of Nashville.

A few days later, Hood, with his diminished Rebel Army, sat down before the lines of Thomas's
somewhat augmented Army, which stretched from bank to bank of the bight of the Cumberland river
upon which Nashville is situated.

And now a season of intense cold set in, lasting a week or ten days. During this period of
apparent inaction on both sides--which aroused public apprehension in the North, and greatly
disturbed General Grant--I was ordered to City Point, by the General-in-Chief, with a view
to his detailing me to Thomas's Command, at Nashville.

On the way, I called on President Lincoln, at the White House.  I found him not very well,
and with his feet considerably swollen.  He was sitting on a chair, with his feet resting on
a table, while a barber was shaving him.  Shaking him by the hand, and asking after his health,
he answered, with a humorous twinkle of the eye, that he would illustrate his condition by
telling me a story.  Said he: "Two of my neighbors, on a certain occasion, swapped horses.
One of these horses was large, but quite thin.  A few days after, on inquiry being made of
the man who had the big boney horse, how the animal was getting along?--whether improving or
not?--the owner said he was doing finely; that he had fattened almost up to the knees already!"

Afterward--when, the process of shaving had been completed, we passed to another room--our
conversation naturally turned upon the War; and his ideas upon all subjects connected with
it were as clear as those of any other person with whom I ever talked.  He had an absolute
conviction as to the ultimate outcome of the War--the final triumph of the Union Arms; and
I well remember, with what an air of complete relief and perfect satisfaction he said to me,
referring to Grant--"We have now at the head of the Armies, a man in whom all the People can
have confidence."

But to return to Military operations: On December 10th? Sherman reached the sea-board and commenced
the siege of Savannah, Georgia; on the 13th, Fort McAllister was stormed and Sherman's communications
opened with the Sea; on the 15th and 16th, the great Battle of Nashville was fought, between
the Armies of Thomas and Hood, and a glorious victory gained by the Union Arms--Hood's Rebel
forces being routed, pursued for days, and practically dispersed; and, before the year ended,
Savannah surrendered, and was presented to the Nation, as "a Christmas gift," by Sherman.

And now the last Session of the Thirty-eighth Congress having commenced, the Thirteenth Amendment
might at any time come up again in the House.

After affirming that, on the subject of the preservation of the Union, the recent elections
had shown the existence of "no diversity among the People;" that "we have more men now than
we had when the War began;" that "we are gaining strength" in all ways; and that, after the
evidences given by Jefferson Davis of his unchangeable opposition to accept anything short
of severance from the Union, "no attempt at negotiation with the Insurgent leader could result
in any good," he appealed to the other Insurgents to come back to the fold--the door of amnesty
and pardon, being still "open to all."

On the 22d of December, 1864, in accordance with the terms of a Concurrent Resolution that
had passed both Houses, Congress adjourned until January 5, 1865.  During the Congressional
Recess, however, Mr. Lincoln, anxious for the fate of the Thirteenth Amendment, exerted himself,
as it afterward appeared, to some purpose, in its behalf, by inviting private conferences with
him, at the White House, of such of the Border-State and other War-Democratic Representatives
as had before voted against the measure, but whose general character gave him ground for hoping
that they might not be altogether deaf to the voice of reason and patriotism.

     [Among those for whom he sent was Mr. Rollins, of
     Missouri, who afterward gave the following interesting account of
     the interview:

     "The President had several times in my presence expressed his deep
     anxiety in favor of the passage of this great measure.  He and
     others had repeatedly counted votes in order to ascertain, as far
     as they could, the strength of the measure upon a second trial in
     the House.  He was doubtful about its passage, and some ten days or
     two weeks before it came up for consideration in the House, I
     received a note from him, written in pencil on a card, while
     sitting at my desk in the House, stating that he wished to see me,
     and asking that I call on him at the White House.  I responded that
     I would be there the next morning at nine o'clock.

     "I was prompt in calling upon him and found him alone in his
     office.  He received me in the most cordial manner, and said in his
     usual familiar way: 'Rollins, I have been wanting to talk to you
     for some time about the Thirteenth Amendment proposed to the
     Constitution of the United States, which will have to be voted on
     now, before a great while.'

     "I said: 'Well, I am here, and ready to talk upon that subject.

     "He said: 'You and I were old Whigs, both of us followers of that
     great statesman, Henry Clay, and I tell you I never had an opinion
     upon the subject of Slavery in my life that I did not get from him.
     I am very anxious that the War should be brought to a close at the
     earliest possible date, and I don't believe this can be
     accomplished as long as those fellows down South can rely upon
     the Border-States to help them; but if the Members from the
     Border-States would unite, at least enough of them to pass the
     Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution, they would soon see that
     they could not expect much help from that quarter, and be willing
     to give up their opposition and quit their War upon the Government;
     that is my chief hope and main reliance to bring the War to a
     speedy close, and I have sent for you as an old Whig friend to come
     and see me, that I might make an appeal to you to vote for this
     Amendment.  It is going to be very close; a few votes one way or
     the other will decide it.'

     "To this, I responded: 'Mr. President, so far as I am concerned,
     you need not have sent for me to ascertain my views on this
     subject, for although I represent perhaps the strongest
     Slave-district in Missouri, and have the misfortune to be one of the
     largest Slave-owners in the country where I reside, I had already
     determined to vote for the Amendment.

     "He arose from his chair, and grasping me by the hand, gave it a
     hearty shake, and said: 'I am most delighted to hear that.'

     "He asked me how many more of the Missouri delegates in the House
     would vote for it.

     "I said I could not tell; the Republicans of course would; General
     Loan, Mr. Blow, Mr. Boyd, and Colonel McClurg.

     "He said, 'Won't General Price vote for it?  He is a good Union
     man.' I said I could not answer.

     "'Well, what about General King?'

     "I told him I did not know.

     "He then asked about Judges Hall and Norton.

     "I said they would both vote against it, I thought.

     "'Well,' he said, 'are you on good terms with Price and King?'

     "I responded in the affirmative, and that I was on easy terms with
     the entire delegation.

     "He then asked me if I would not talk with those who might be
     persuaded to vote for the amendment, and report to him as soon as I
     could find out what the prospect was.'

     "I answered that I would do so with pleasure, and remarked at the
     same time, that when I was a young man, in 1848, I was the Whig
     competitor of King for Governor of Missouri, and, as he beat me
     very badly, I thought now he should pay me back by voting as I
     desired him on this important question.

     "I promised the President I would talk to this gentleman upon the
     subject.

     "He said: 'I would like you to talk to all the Border-State men
     whom you can approach properly, and tell them of my anxiety to have
     the measure pass; and let me know the prospect of the Border-State
     vote,' which I promised to do.

     "He again said: 'The passage of this Amendment will clinch the
     whole subject; it will bring the War, I have no doubt, rapidly to a
     close.'"--Arnold's Life of Lincoln, pp. 358-359,]

On the 5th of January, 1865, the Christmas Recess having expired, Congress re-assembled.  The
motion to reconsider the vote-by which the Joint Resolution, to amend the Constitution by the
abolition of Slavery, had been defeated--was not called up, on that day, as its friends had
not all returned; but the time was mainly consumed in able speeches, by Mr. Creswell of Maryland,
and Stevens of Pennsylvania, in which the former declared that "whether we would or not, we
must establish Freedom if we would exterminate Treason.  Events have left us no choice.  The
People have learned their duty and have instructed us accordingly."  And Mr. Thaddeus Stevens
solemnly said: "We are about to ascertain the National will, by another vote to amend the Constitution.
If gentlemen opposite will yield to the voice of God and Humanity, and vote for it, I verily
believe the sword of the Destroying Angel will be stayed, and this People be reunited.  If
we still harden our hearts, and blood must still flow, may the ghosts of the slaughtered victims
sit heavily upon the souls of those who cause it!"

On the 6th of January, Mr. Ashley called up his motion to reconsider the vote defeating the
Thirteenth Amendment, and opened the debate with a lengthy and able speech in favor of that
measure, in concluding which he said:

"The genius of history, with iron pen, is waiting to record our verdict where it will remain
forever for all the coming generations of men to approve or condemn.  God grant that this verdict
may be one over which the friends of Liberty, impartial and universal, in this Country and
Europe, and in every Land beneath the sun, may rejoice; a verdict which shall declare that
America is Free; a verdict which shall add another day of jubilee, and the brightest of all,
to our National calendar."

The debate was participated in by nearly all the prominent men, on both sides of the House--the
speeches of Messrs. Cox, Brooks, Voorhees, Mallory, Holman, Woods and Pendleton being the most
notable, in opposition to, and those of Scofield, Rollins, Garfield and Stevens, in favor of,
the Amendment.  That of Scofield probably stirred up "the adversary" more thoroughly than any
other; that of Rollins was more calculated to conciliate and capture the votes of hesitating,
or Border-State men; that of Garfield was perhaps the most scholarly and eloquent; while that
of Stevens was remarkable for its sledge-hammer pungency and characteristic brevity.

Mr. Pendleton, toward the end of his speech, had said of Mr. Stevens: "Let him be careful,
lest when the passions of these times be passed away, and the historian shall go back to discover
where was the original infraction of the Constitution, he may find that sin lies at the door
of others than the people now in arms."  And it was this that brought the sterling old Patriot
again to his feet, in vindication of the acts of his liberty-inspired life, and in defense
of the power to amend the Constitution, which had been assailed.

The personal antithesis with which he concluded his remarks was in itself most dramatically
effective, Said he:

"So far as the appeals of the learned gentleman (Mr. Pendleton) are concerned, in his pathetic
winding up, I will be willing to take my chance, when we all moulder in the dust.  He may have
his epitaph written, if it be truly written, 'Here rests the ablest and most pertinacious defender
of Slavery, and opponent of Liberty;' and I will be satisfied if my epitaph shall be written
thus: 'Here lies one who never rose to any eminence, and who only courted the low ambition
to have it said that he had striven to ameliorate the condition of the poor, the lowly, the
downtrodden, of every race, and language, and color."

As he said these words, the crowded floors and galleries broke out into involuntary applause
for the grand "Old Commoner"--who only awaited its cessation, to caustically add: "I shall
be content, with such a eulogy on his lofty tomb and such an inscription on my humble grave,
to trust our memories to the judgment of after ages."

The debate, frequently interrupted by Appropriation Bills, and other important and importunate
measures, lasted until the 31st of January, when Mr. Ashley called the previous question on
his motion to reconsider.

Mr. Stiles at once moved to table the motion to reconsider.  Mr. Stiles's motion was lost by
57 yeas to 111 nays.  This was in the nature of a test-vote, and the result, when announced,
was listened to, with breathless attention, by the crowded House and galleries.  It was too
close for either side to be satisfied; but it showed a gain to the friends of the Amendment;
that was something.  How the final vote would be, none could tell.  Meanwhile it was known,
from the announcements on the floor, that Rogers was absent through his own illness and Voorhees
through illness in his family.

The previous question being seconded and the main question ordered, the yeas and nays were
called on the motion to reconsider--and the intense silence succeeding the monotonous calling
of the names was broken by the voice of the Speaker declaring the motion to reconsider, carried,
by 112 yeas to 57 nays.

This vote created a slight sensation.  There was a gain of one, (English), at any rate, from
among those not voting on the previous motion.  Now, if there should be but the change of a
single vote, from the nays to the yeas, the Amendment would be carried!

The most intensely anxious solicitude was on nearly every face, as Mr. Mallory, at this critical
moment, made the point of order that "a vote to reconsider the vote by which the subject now
before the House was disposed of, in June last, requires two-thirds of this Body," and emphatically
added: "that two-thirds vote has not been obtained."

A sigh of relief swept across the galleries, as the Speaker overruled the point of order. 
Other attempted interruptions being resolutely met and defeated by Mr. Ashley, in charge of
the Resolution, the "previous question" was demanded, seconded, and the main question ordered--which
was on the passage of the Resolution.

And now, amid the hush of a breathless and intent anxiety--so absolute that the scratch of
the recording pencil could be heard--the Clerk commenced to call the roll!

So consuming was the solicitude, on all sides, for the fate of this portentous measure, that
fully one-half the Representatives kept tally at their desks as the vote proceeded, while the
heads of the gathered thousands of both sexes, in the galleries, craned forward, as though
fearing to lose the startlingly clear responses, while the roll-call progressed.

When it reached the name of English--Governor English, a Connecticut Democrat, who had not
voted on the first motion, to table the motion to reconsider, but had voted "yea" on the motion
to reconsider,--and he responded with a clear-cut "aye" on the passage of the Resolution--it
looked as though light were coming at last, and applause involuntarily broke forth from the
Republican side of the floor, spreading instantly to the galleries, despite the efforts of
the Speaker to preserve order.

So, when Ganson of New York, and other Democrats, voted "aye," the applause was renewed again
and again, and still louder again, when, with smiling face--which corroborated the thrilling,
fast-spreading, whisper, that "the Amendment is safe!"--Speaker Colfax directed the Clerk to
call his name, as a member of the House, and, in response to that call, voted "aye!"

Then came dead silence, as the Clerk passed the result to the Speaker --during which a pin
might have been heard to drop,--broken at last by the Speaker's ringing voice: "The Constitutional
majority of two-thirds having voted in the affirmative, the Joint Resolution is passed."

     [The enrolled Resolution received the approval and signature of the
     President, Feb. 1, 1865,]

The words had scarcely left the Speaker's lips, when House and galleries sprang to their feet,
clapping their hands, stamping their feet, waving hats and handkerchiefs, and cheering so loudly
and so long that it seemed as if this great outburst of enthusiasm--indulged in, in defiance
of all parliamentary rules--would never cease!

In his efforts to control it, Speaker Colfax hammered the desk until he nearly broke his mallet.
Finally, by 4 o'clock, P.M., after several minutes of useless effort--during which the pounding
of the mallet was utterly lost in the noisy enthusiasm and excitement, in which both the Freedom-loving
men and women of the Land, there present, participated --the Speaker at last succeeded in securing
a lull.

During all these uncontrollable ebullitions of popular feeling in behalf of personal Liberty
and National Freedom and strength, the Democratic members of the House had sat, many of them
moving uneasily in their seats, with chagrin painted in deep lines upon their faces, while
others were bolt upright, as if riveted to their chairs, looking straight before them at the
Speaker, in a vain attempt, belied by the pallid anger of their set countenances, to appear
unconscious of the storm of popular feeling breaking around them, which they now doggedly perceived
might be but a forecast of the joyful enthusiasm which on that day, and on the morrow, would
spread from one end of the Land to the other.

Harris, of Maryland, made a sort of "Last Ditch" protest against adjournment, by demanding
the "yeas and nays" on the motion to adjourn. The motion was, however, carried, by 121 yeas
to 24 nays; and, as the members left their places in the Hall--many of them to hurry with their
hearty congratulations to President Lincoln at the White House--the triumph, in the Halls of
our National Congress, of Freedom and Justice and Civilization, over Slavery and Tyranny and
Barbarism, was already being saluted by the booming of one hundred guns on Capitol Hill.

How large a share was Mr. Lincoln's, in that triumph, these pages have already sufficiently
indicated.  Sweet indeed must have been the joy that thrilled his whole being, when, sitting
in the White House, he heard the bellowing artillery attest the success of his labors in behalf
of Emancipation.  Proud indeed must he have felt when, the following night, in response to
the loud and jubilant cries of "Lincoln!" "Lincoln!" "Abe Lincoln!" "Uncle Abe!" and other
affectionate calls, from a great concourse of people who, with music, had assembled outside
the White House to give him a grand serenade and popular ovation, he appeared at an open window,
bowed to the tumult of their acclamations, and declared that "The great Job is ended!"--adding,
among other things, that the occasion was one fit for congratulation, and, said he, "I cannot
but congratulate all present--myself, the Country, and the whole World--upon this great moral
victory. * * * This ends the Job!"

Substantially the job was ended.  There was little doubt, after such a send off, by the President
and by Congress, in view of the character of the State Legislatures, as well as the temper
of the People, that the requisite number of States would be secured to ratify the Thirteenth
Amendment.  Already, on the 1st of February, that is to say, on the very day of this popular
demonstration at the Executive Mansion, the President's own State, Illinois, had ratified it--and
this circumstance added to the satisfaction and happiness which beamed from, and almost made
beautiful, his homely face.

Other States quickly followed; Maryland, on February 1st and 3rd; Rhode Island and Michigan,
on February 2nd; New York, February 2nd and 3rd; West Virginia, February 3rd; Maine and Kansas,
February 7th; Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, February 8th; Virginia, February 9th; Ohio and
Missouri, February 10th; Nevada and Indiana, February 16th; Louisiana, February 17th; Minnesota,
February 8th and 23rd; Wisconsin, March 1st; Vermont, March 9th; Tennessee, April 5th and 7th;
Arkansas, April 20th; Connecticut, May 5th; New Hampshire, July 1st; South Carolina, November
13th; Alabama, December 2nd; North Carolina, December 4th; Georgia, December 9th; Oregon, December
11th; California, December 20th; and Florida, December 28th;--all in 1865; with New Jersey,
closely following, on January 23rd; and Iowa, January 24th;--in 1866.

Long ere this last date, however, the Secretary of State (Mr. Seward) had been able to, and
did, announce (November 18, 1865) the ratification of the Amendment by the requisite number
of States, and certified that the same had "become, to all intents and purposes, valid as a
part of the Constitution of the United States."

Not until then, was "the job" absolutely ended; but, as has been already mentioned, it was,
at the time Mr. Lincoln spoke, as good as ended.  It was a foregone conclusion, that the great
end for which he, and so many other great and good men of the Republic had for so many years
been earnestly striving, would be an accomplished fact.  They had not failed; they had stood
firm; the victory which he had predicted six years before had come!

                     LINCOLN'S SECOND INAUGURATION.

While the death of Slavery in America was decreed, as we have seen; yet, the sanguine anticipations
of Mr. Lincoln, and other friends of Freedom, that such a decree, imperishably grafted into
the Constitution, must at once end the Rebellion, and bring Peace with a restored Union, were
not realized.  The War went on.  Grant was still holding Lee, at Petersburg, near Richmond,
while Sherman's victorious Army was about entering upon a campaign from Savannah, up through
the Carolinas.

During the previous Summer, efforts had been made, by Horace Greeley, and certain parties supposed
to represent the Rebel authorities, to lay the ground-work for an early Peace and adjustment
of the differences between the Government of the United States and the Rebels, but they miscarried.
They led, however, to the publication of the following important conciliatory Presidential
announcement:

                              "EXECUTIVE MANSION,
                              "WASHINGTON, July 18, 1864.

"(Signed) ABRAHAM LINCOLN."

About the same time, other efforts were being made, with a similar object in view, but which
came to naught.  The visit of Messrs. Jacques and Gilmore to the Rebel Capital on an informal
Peace-errand was, at least, valuable in this, that it secured from the head and front of the
armed Conspiracy, Jefferson Davis himself, the following definite statement:

"I desire Peace as much as you do; I deplore bloodshed as much as you do; but I feel that not
one drop of the blood shed in this War is on my hands.  I can look up to my God and say this.
I tried all in my power to avert this War.  I saw it coming, and for twelve years I worked
night and day to prevent it; but I could not.  The North was mad and blind; it would not let
us govern ourselves; and so the War came: and now it must go on till the last man of this generation
falls in his tracks, and his children seize his musket and fight our battle, unless you acknowledge
our right to self-government.  We are not fighting for Slavery.  We are fighting for INDEPENDENCE;
and that, or EXTERMINATION, we WILL have."

     [The Nation, July 2, 1885, contained the following
     remarks, which may be pertinently quoted in support of this
     authoritative statement that the South was "not fighting for
     Slavery," but for Independence--that is to say: for Power, and what
     would flow from it.]

     ["The Charleston News and Courier a fortnight ago remarked that
     'not more than one Southern soldier in ten or fifteen was a
     Slaveholder, or had any interest in Slave Property.'  The
     Laurensville Herald disputed the statement, and declared that 'the
     Southern Army was really an Army of Slaveholders and the sons of
     Slaveholders.'  The Charleston paper stands by its original
     position, and cites figures which are conclusive.  The Military
     population of the eleven States which seceded, according to the
     census of 1860, was 1,064,193.  The entire number of Slaveholders
     in the Country at the same time was 383,637, but of these 77,335
     lived in the Border States, so that the number in the Seceding
     States was only 306,302.  Most of the small Slaveholders, however,
     were not Slave-owners, but Slave hirers, and Mr. De Bow, the
     statistician who supervised the census of 1850, estimated that but
     little over half the holders were actually owners.  The proportion
     of owners diminished between 1850 and 1860, and the News and
     Courier thinks that there were not more than 150,000 Slave-owners
     in the Confederate States when the War broke out.

Thus the lines had been definitely and distinctly drawn, on both sides. The issue of Slavery
became admittedly, as between the Government and the Rebels, a dead one.  The great cardinal
issue was now clearly seen and authoritatively admitted to be, "the integrity of the whole
Union" on the one side, and on the other, "Independence of a part of it." These precise declarations
did great good to the Union Cause in the North, and not only helped the triumphant re-election
of Mr. Lincoln, but also contributed to weaken the position of the Northern advocates of Slavery,
and to bring about, as we have seen, the extinction of that inherited National curse, by Constitutional
Amendment.

During January, of 1865, Francis P. Blair having been permitted to pass both the Union and
Rebel Army lines, showed to Mr. Lincoln a letter, written to the former, by Jefferson Davis--and
which the latter had authorized him to read to the President--stating that he had always been,
and was still, ready to send or to receive Commissioners "to enter into a Conference, with
a view to secure Peace to the two Countries."  On the 21st of January, Mr. Blair was again
in Richmond; and Mr. Davis had read and retained Mr. Lincoln's letter to Blair, who specifically
drew the Rebel chieftain's attention to the fact that "the part about 'our common Country'
related to the part of Mr. Davis's letter about 'the two Countries,' to which Mr. Davis replied
that he so understood it."  * * * Our earnest desire is, that a just and honorable Peace may
be agreed upon, and we are prepared to receive or to submit propositions which may, possibly,
lead to the attainment of that end."  Subsequently, the President, in consequence of a dispatch
from General Grant to Secretary Stanton, decided to go himself to Fortress Monroe.

     Following is the dispatch:

     [In Cipher]

     OFFICE UNITED STATES MILITARY TELEGRAPH.  WAR DEPARTMENT.

     "The following telegram received at Washington, 4.35 A.M., February
     2, 1865.  From City Point, Va., February 1, 10.30 P.M., 1865

     "Now that the interview between Major Eckert, under his written
     instructions, and Mr. Stephens and party has ended, I will state
     confidentially, but not officially, to become a matter of record,
     that I am convinced, upon conversation with Messrs. Stephens and
     Hunter, that their intentions are good and their desire sincere to
     restore Peace and Union.  I have not felt myself at liberty to
     express, even, views of my own, or to account for my reticency.
     This has placed me in an awkward position, which I could have
     avoided by not seeing them in the first instance.  I fear now their
     going back without any expression from any one in authority will
     have a bad influence.  At the same time I recognize the
     difficulties in the way of receiving these informal Commissioners
     at this time, and do not know what to recommend.  I am sorry,
     however, that Mr. Lincoln cannot have an interview with the two
     named in this dispatch, if not all three now within our lines.
     Their letter to me was all that the President's instructions
     contemplated to secure their safe conduct, if they had used the
     same language to Major Eckert.

                                   "U. S. GRANT,
                                   "Lieutenant General.

     "Hon. EDWIN M. STANTON,
     "Secretary of War."

     Mr. Stephens is stated by a Georgia paper to have repeated the
     following characteristic anecdote of what occurred during the
     interview.  "The three Southern gentlemen met Mr. Lincoln and Mr.
     Seward, and after some preliminary remarks, the subject of Peace
     was opened.  Mr. Stephens, well aware that one who asks much may
     get more than he who confesses to humble wishes at the outset,
     urged the claims of his Section with that skill and address for
     which the Northern papers have given him credit.  Mr. Lincoln,
     holding the vantage ground of conscious power, was, however,
     perfectly frank, and submitted his views almost in the form of an
     argument.  * * * Davis had, on this occasion, as on that of Mr.
     Stephens's visit to Washington, made it a condition that no
     Conference should be had unless his rank as Commander or President
     should first be recognized.  My only
     distinct recollection of the matter is that Charles lost his head,'
     That settled Mr. Hunter for a while." Arnold's Lincoln, p. 400.

On the night of February 2nd, Mr. Lincoln reached Hampton Roads, and joined Secretary Seward
on board a steamer anchored off the shore.  The next morning, from another steamer, similarly
anchored, Messrs. Stephens, Hunter, and Campbell were brought aboard the President's steamer
and a Conference with the President and Secretary of several hours' duration was the result.
Mr. Lincoln's own statement of what transpired was in these words:

"No question of preliminaries to the meeting was then and there made or mentioned.  No other
person was present; no papers were exchanged or produced; and it was, in advance, agreed that
the conversation was to be informal and verbal merely.  They seemed to desire a postponement
of that question, and the adoption of some other course first, which, as some of them seemed
to argue, might or might not lead to Reunion; but which course, we thought, would amount to
an indefinite postponement.  The Conference ended without result."

In his communication to the Rebel Congress at Richmond, February 6. 1865, Jefferson Davis,
after mentioning his appointment of Messrs. Stephens, Hunter and Campbell, for the purpose
stated, proceeded to say:

"I herewith transmit, for the information of Congress, the report of the eminent citizens above
named, showing that the Enemy refused to enter into negotiations with the Confederate States,
or any one of them separately, or to give to our people any other terms or guarantees than
those which the conqueror may grant, or to permit us to have Peace on any other basis than
our unconditional submission to their rule, coupled with the acceptance of their recent legislation
on the subject of the relations between the White and Black population of each State."

On the 5th and 9th of February, public meetings were held at Richmond, in connection with these
Peace negotiations.  At the first, Jefferson Davis made a speech in which the Richmond Dispatch
reported him as emphatically asserting that no conditions of Peace "save the Independence of
the Confederacy could ever receive his sanction.  He doubted not that victory would yet crown
our labors, * * * and sooner than we should ever be united again he would be willing to yield
up everything he had on Earth, and if it were possible would sacrifice a thousand lives before
he would succumb."  Thereupon the meeting of Rebels passed resolutions "spurning" Mr. Lincoln's
terms "with the indignation due to so gross an insult;" declared that the circumstances connected
with his offer could only "add to the outrage and stamp it as a designed and premeditated indignity"
offered to them; and invoking "the aid of Almighty God" to carry out their "resolve to maintain"
their "Liberties and Independence"--to which, said they, "we mutually pledge our lives, our
fortunes, and our sacred honor."  So too, at the second of these meetings, presided over by
R. M. T. Hunter, and addressed by the Rebel Secretary Judah P. Benjamin, resolutions were adopted
amid "wild and long continued cheering," one of which stated that they would "never lay down"
their "arms until" their "Independence" had "been won," while another declared a full confidence
in the sufficiency of their resources to "conduct the War successfully and to that issue,"
and invoked "the People, in the name of the holiest of all causes, to spare neither their blood
nor their treasure in its maintenance and support."

As during these Peace negotiations, General Grant, by express direction of President Lincoln,
had not changed, hindered, nor delayed, any of his "Military movements or plans," so, now that
the negotiations had failed, those Military movements were pressed more strenuously than ever.

     [The main object of this Conference on the part of the Rebels was
     to secure an immediate truce, or breathing spell, during which they
     could get themselves in better condition for continuing the War.
     Indeed a portion of Mr. Seward's letter of Feb. 7, 1865, to Mr.
     Adams, our Minister at the Court of St. James, giving him an
     account of the Conference with the party of Insurgent
     Commissioners, would not alone indicate this, but also that it was
     proposed by that "Insurgent party," that both sides, during the
     time they would thus cease to fight one another, might profitably
     combine their forces to drive the French invaders out of Mexico and
     annex that valuable country.  At least, the following passage in
     that letter will bear that construction:

     "What the Insurgent party seemed chiefly to favor was a
     postponement of the question of separation, upon which the War is
     waged, and a mutual direction of efforts of the Government, as well
     as those of the Insurgents, to some extrinsic policy or scheme for
     a season, during which passions might be expected to subside, and
     the Armies be reduced, and trade and intercourse between the People
     of both Sections resumed.  It was suggested by them that through
     such postponements we might now have immediate Peace, with some not
     very certain prospect of an ultimate satisfactory adjustment of
     political relations between this Government, and the States,
     Section, or People, now engaged in conflict with it."

     For the whole of this letter see McPherson's History of the
     Rebellion, p.  570.]

Fort Fisher, North Carolina, had already been captured by a combined Military and Naval attack
of the Union forces under General Terry and Admiral Porter; and Sherman's Army was now victoriously
advancing from Savannah, Georgia, Northwardly through South Carolina.  On the 17th of February,
Columbia, the capital of the latter State, surrendered, and, the day following, Charleston
was evacuated, and its defenses, including historic Fort Sumter, were once more under that
glorious old flag of the Union which four years before had been driven away, by shot and shell
and flame, amid the frantic exultations of the temporarily successful armed Conspirators of
South Carolina.  On the 22nd of February, General Schofield, who had been sent by Grant with
his 23rd Corps, by water, to form a junction with Terry's troops about Fort Fisher, and capture
Wilmington, North Carolina, had also accomplished his purpose successfully.

The Rebel Cause now began to look pretty desperate, even to Rebel eyes.

     [Hundreds of Rebels were now deserting from Lee's Armies about
     Richmond, every night, owing partly to despondency.  "These
     desertions," wrote Lee, on the 24th February, "have a very bad
     effect upon the troops who remain, and give rise to painful
     apprehensions."  Another cause was the lack of food and clothing.
     Says Badeau (Military History of Ulysses S. Grant, vol.  iii., p.
     399): "On the 8th of January, Lee wrote to the Rebel Government
     that the entire Right Wing of his Army had been in line for three
     days and nights, in the most inclement weather of the season.
     'Under these circumstances,' he said, 'heightened by assaults and
     fire of the Enemy, some of the men had been without meat for three
     days, and all were suffering from reduced rations and scant
     clothing.  Colonel Cole, chief commissary, reports that he has not
     a pound of meat at his disposal.  If some change is not made, and
     the commissary department reorganized, I apprehend dire results.
     The physical strength of the men, if their courage survives, must
     fail under this treatment.  Our Cavalry has to be dispersed for
     want of forage.  Fitz Lee's and Lomax's Divisions are scattered
     because supplies cannot be transported where their services are
     required.  I had to bring Fitz Lee's Division sixty miles Sunday
     night, to get them in position.  Taking these facts in connection
     with the paucity of our numbers, you must not be surprised if
     calamity befalls us.'" Badeau's (Grant, vol.  iii., p. 401,)]

Toward the end of February, the Rebel General Longstreet having requested an interview with
General Ord "to arrange for the exchange of citizen prisoners, and prisoners of war, improperly
captured," General Grant authorized General Ord to hold such interview t and "to arrange definitely
for such as were confined in his department, arrangements for all others to be submitted for
approval."  In the course of that interview "a general conversation ensued on the subject of
the War," when it would seem that Longstreet suggested the idea of a composition of the questions
at issue, and Peace between the United States and the Rebels, by means of a Military Convention.
It is quite probable that this idea originated with Jefferson Davis, as a /dernier resort/;
for Longstreet appears to have communicated directly with Davis concerning his interview or
"interviews" with Ord.  On the 28th of February, 1865 the Rebel Chief wrote to Lee, as follows:

                         "RICHMOND, VA., February 28.

"Gen. R. E. LEE, Commanding, etc.,

"GENERAL: You will learn by the letter of General Longstreet the result
of his second interview with General Ord.  The points as to whether
yourself or General Grant should invite the other to a Conference is not
worth discussing.  If you think the statements of General Ord render it
probably useful that the Conference suggested should be had, you will
proceed as you may prefer, and are clothed with all the supplemental
authority you may need in the consideration of any proposition for a
Military Convention, or the appointment of a Commissioner to enter into
such an arrangement as will cause at least temporary suspension of
hostilities.
                         "Very truly yours
                                   "JEFFERSON DAVIS."

Thereupon General Lee wrote, and sent to General Grant, the following communication:

               "HEADQUARTERS C. S. ARMIES, March 2, 1865.  Sincerely desirous to leave
nothing untried which may put an end to the calamities of War, I propose
to meet you at such convenient time and place as you may designate, with
the hope that, upon an interchange of views, it may be found practicable
to submit the subjects of controversy between the belligerents to a
Convention of the kind mentioned.

"In such event, I am authorized to do whatever the result of the proposed interview may render
necessary or advisable.  Should you accede to this proposition, I would suggest that, if agreeable
to you, we meet at the place selected by Generals Ord and Longstreet, for the interview, at
11 A.M., on Monday next.

               "Very respectfully your obedient servant,
                              "R. E. LEE, General."

Upon receipt of this letter, General Grant sent a telegraphic dispatch to Secretary Stanton,
informing him of Lee's proposition.  It reached the Secretary of War just before midnight of
March 3rd.  He, and the other members of the Cabinet were with the President, in the latter's
room at the Capitol, whither they had gone on this, the last, night of the last Session of
the Thirty-Eighth Congress, the Cabinet to advise, and the President to act, upon bills submitted
to him for approval.  The Secretary, after reading the dispatch, handed it to Mr. Lincoln.
General Ord could only have meant that I would not refuse an interview on any subject on which
I have a right to act; which, of course, would be such as are purely of a Military character,
and on the subject of exchange, which has been entrusted to me."

Thus perished the last reasonable hope entertained by the Rebel Chieftains to ward off the
inevitable and mortal blow that was about to smite their Cause.

The 4th of March, 1865, had come.  The Thirty-Eighth Congress was no more.  Mr. Lincoln was
about to be inaugurated, for a second term, as President of the United States.  The previous
night had been vexed with a stormy snow-fall.  The morning had also been stormy and rainy.
By mid-day, however, as if to mark the event auspiciously, the skies cleared and the sun shone
gloriously upon the thousands and tens of thousands who had come to Washington, to witness
the second Inauguration of him whom the people had now, long since, learned to affectionately
term "Father Abraham"--of him who had become the veritable Father of his People.  As the President
left the White House, to join the grand procession to the Capitol, a brilliant meteor shot
athwart the heavens, above his head.  At the time, the superstitious thought it an Omen of
triumph--of coming Peace--but in the sad after-days when armed Rebellion had ceased and Peace
had come, it was remembered, with a shudder, as a portent of ill.  When, at last, Mr. Lincoln
stood, with bared head, upon the platform at the eastern portico of the Capitol, where four
years before, he had made his vows before the People, under such very different circumstances
and surroundings, the contrast between that time and this--and all the terrible and eventful
history of the interim --could not fail to present itself to every mind of all those congregated,
whether upon the platform among the gorgeously costumed foreign diplomats, the full-uniformed
Military and Naval officers of the United States, and the more soberly-clad statesmen and Civic
and Judicial functionaries of the Land, or in the vast and indiscriminate mass of the enthusiastic
people in front and on both sides of it.

With utterances so just and fair, so firm and hopeful, so penitent and humble, so benignant
and charitable, so mournfully tender and sweetly solemn, so full of the fervor of true piety
and the very pathos of patriotism, small wonder is it that among those numberless thousands
who, on this memorable occasion, gazed upon the tall, gaunt form of Abraham Lincoln, and heard
his clear, sad voice, were some who almost imagined they saw the form and heard the voice of
one of the great prophets and leaders of Israel; while others were more reminded of one of
the Holy Apostles of the later Dispensation who preached the glorious Gospel "On Earth, Peace,
good will toward Men," and received in the end the crown of Christian martyrdom.  But not one
soul of those present --unless his own felt such presentiment--dreamed for a moment that, all
too soon, the light of those brave and kindly eyes was fated to go out in darkness, that sad
voice to be hushed forever, that form to lie bleeding and dead, a martyred sacrifice indeed,
upon the altar of his Country!

                              CHAPTER XXX.

                   COLLAPSE OF THE ARMED CONSPIRACY.

Meantime, Sherman's Armies were pressing along upward, toward Raleigh, from Columbia, marching
through swamps and over quicksands and across swollen streams--cold, wet, hungry, tired--often
up to their armpits in water, yet keeping their powder dry, and silencing opposing batteries
or driving the Enemy, who doggedly retired before them, through the drenching rains which poured
down unceasingly for days, and even weeks, at a time.  On the 16th of March, 1865, a part of
Sherman's Forces met the Enemy, under General Joe Johnston, at Averysboro, N.  C., and forced
him to retire.  On the 19th and 20th of March, occurred the series of engagements, about Mill
Creek and the Bentonville and Smithfield cross-roads, which culminated in the attack upon the
Enemy, of the 21st of March, and his evacuation, that night, of his entire line of works, and
retreat upon Smithfield.  This was known as the Battle of Bentonville, and was the last battle
fought between the rival Forces under Sherman and Johnston.  The Armies of Sherman, now swollen
by having formed a junction with the troops under Schofield and Terry, which had come from
Newbern and Wilmington, went into camp at Goldsboro, North Carolina, to await the rebuilding
of the railroads from those two points on the coast, and the arrival of badly needed clothing,
provision, and other supplies, after which the march would be resumed to Burksville, Virginia.
By the 25th of March, the railroad from Newbern was in running order, and General Sherman,
leaving General Schofield in command of his eighty thousand troops, went to Newbern and Morehead
City, and thence by steamer to City Point, for a personal interview with General Grant.  On
the same day, Lee made a desperate but useless assault, with twenty thousand (of his seventy
thousand) men upon Fort Stedman--a portion of Grant's works in front of Petersburg.  On the
27th, President Lincoln reached City Point, on the James River, in the steamer "Ocean Queen."
Sherman reached City Point the same day, and, after meeting the General-in-Chief, Grant took
him on board the "Ocean Queen" to see the President.  Together they explained to Mr. Lincoln
the Military situation, during the "hour or more" they were with him.

President Lincoln's intense anxiety caused him to remain at City Point, from this time forth,
almost until the end--receiving from General Grant, when absent, at the immediate front, frequent
dispatches, which, as fast as received and read, he transmitted to the Secretary of War, at
Washington.  Grant had already given general instructions to Major-Generals Meade, Ord, and
Sheridan, for the closing movements of his immediate Forces, against Lee and his lines of supply
and possible retreat.  He saw that the time had come for which he had so long waited, and he
now felt "like ending the matter."  On the morning of the 29th of March--preliminary dispositions
having been executed--the movements began.  That night, Grant wrote to Sheridan, who was at
Dinwiddie Court House, with his ten thousand Cavalry: "Our line is now unbroken from the Appomattox
to Dinwiddie.  * * *  I feel now like ending the matter, if it is possible to do so, before
going back.  * * *  In the morning, push around the Enemy, if you can, and get on his right
rear.  * * * We will all act together as one Army, until it is seen what can be done with the
Enemy."  The rain fell all that night in torrents.  The face of the country, where forests,
swamps, and quicksands alternated in presenting apparently insuperable obstacles to immediate
advance, was very discouraging next morning, but Sheridan's heart was gladdened by orders to
seize Five Forks.

On the 31st, the Battle of Dinwiddie Court House occurred--the Enemy attacking Sheridan and
Warren with a largely superior force.  During the night, Sheridan was reinforced with the Fifth
Corps, and other troops. On April 1st, Sheridan fought, and won, the glorious Battle of Five
Forks, against this detached Rebel force, and, besides capturing 6,000 prisoners and six pieces
of artillery, dispersed the rest to the North and West, away from the balance of Lee's Army.
That night, after Grant received the news of this victory, he went into his tent, wrote a dispatch,
sent it by an orderly, and returning to the fire outside his tent, calmly said: "I have ordered
an immediate assault along the lines."  This was afterward modified to an attack at three points,
on the Petersburg works, at 4 o'clock in the morning--a terrific bombardment, however, to be
kept up all night.  Grant also sent more reinforcements to Sheridan.  On the morning of April
2nd, the assault was made, and the Enemy's works were gallantly carried, while Sheridan was
coming up to the West of Petersburg.

The Rebel Chieftain Lee, when his works were stormed and carried, is said to have exclaimed:
"It has happened as I thought; the lines have been stretched until they broke."  At 10.30 A.
M. he telegraphed to Jefferson Davis: "My lines are broken in three places.  Richmond must
be evacuated this evening."  This dispatch of Parke, Ord on Wright's left, Humphreys on Ord's
left and Warren on Humphrey's left-Sheridan being to the rear and left of Warren, reached Davis,
while at church.  All present felt, as he retired, that the end of the Rebellion had come.
At 10.40 A. M. Lee reported further: "I see no prospect of doing more than holding our position
here till night.  I am not certain that I can do that.  If I can, I shall withdraw tonight,
North of the Appomattox, and if possible, it will be better to withdraw the whole line to-night
from James river.  * * *  Our only chance of concentrating our Forces is to do so near Danville
railroad, which I shall endeavor to do at once.  "At 7 o'clock P. M. Lee again communicated
to the Rebel Secretary of War this information: "It is absolutely necessary that we should
abandon our position to-night, or run the risk of being cut off in the morning.  I have given
all the orders to officers on both sides of the river, and have taken every precaution that
I can to make the movement successful.  It will be a difficult operation, but I hope not impracticable.
Please give all orders that you find necessary, in and about Richmond.  The troops will all
be directed to Amelia Court House."  This was the last dispatch sent by Lee to the Rebel Government.

On the 3rd of April, Petersburg and Richmond were evacuated, and again under the Union flag,
while Grant's immediate Forces were pressing forward to cut off the retreat of Lee, upon Amelia
Court House and Danville, in an effort to form a junction with Johnston.  On the 6th, the important
Battle of Sailor's Creek, Va., was fought and won by Sheridan.  On the evening of the 7th,
at the Farmville hotel, where Lee had slept the night before, Grant, after sending dispatches
to Sheridan at Prospect Station, Ord at Prince Edward's Court House, and Mead at Rice Station,
wrote the following letter to Lee:

                         "FARMVILLE, April 7th, 1865.

Lee, however, in replying to this demand, and in subsequent correspondence, seemed to be unable
to see "the hopelessness of further resistance."  He thought "the emergency had not yet come."
Hence, Grant decided to so press and harass him, as to bring the emergency along quickly. 
Accordingly, by the night of the 8th of April, Sheridan with his Cavalry had completely headed
Lee off, at Appomattox Court House. By morning, Ord's forces had reached Sheridan, and were
in line behind him.  Two Corps of the Army of the Potomac, under Meade, were also, by this
time, close on the Enemy's rear.  And now the harassed Enemy, conscious that his rear was threatened,
and seeing only Cavalry in his front, through which to fight his way, advanced to the attack.
The dismounted Cavalry of Sheridan contested the advance, in order to give Ord and Griffin
as much time as possible to form, then, mounting and moving rapidly aside, they suddenly uncovered,
to the charging Rebels, Ord's impenetrable barrier of Infantry, advancing upon them at a double-quick!
At the same time that this appalling sight staggered them, and rolled them back in despair,
they became aware that Sheridan's impetuous Cavalry, now mounted, were hovering on their left
flank, evidently about to charge!

Lee at once concluded that the emergency "had now come," and sent, both to Sheridan and Meade,
a flag of truce, asking that hostilities cease, pending negotiations for a surrender--having
also requested of Grant an audience with a view to such surrender.

Before parting, Lee told Grant that his men were starving; and Grant at once ordered 25,000
rations to be issued to the surrendered Rebels--and then the Rebel Chieftain, shaking hands
with the Victor, rode away to his conquered legions.

Meanwhile on the 5th of April, Grant, who had kept Sherman, as well as Sheridan, advised of
his main movements, had also ordered the former to press Johnston's Army as he was pressing
Lee, so as, between them, they might "push on, and finish the job."  In accordance with this
order, Sherman's Forces advanced toward Smithfield, and, Johnston having rapidly retreated
before them, entered Raleigh, North Carolina, on the 13th.  The 14th of April, brought the
news of the surrender of Lee to Grant, and the same day a correspondence was opened between
Sherman and Johnston, looking to the surrender of the latter's Army--terms for which were actually
agreed upon, subject, however, to approval of Sherman's superiors.  Those terms, however, being
considered unsatisfactory, were promptly disapproved, and similar terms to those allowed to
Lee's Army, were substituted, and agreed to, the actual surrender taking place April 26th,
near Durham, North Carolina.  On the 21st, Macon, Georgia, with 12,000 Rebel Militia, and sixty
guns, was surrendered to Wilson's Cavalry-command, by General Howell Cobb.  On the 4th of May,
General Richard Taylor surrendered all the armed Rebel troops, East of the Mississippi river;
and on the 26th of May, General Kirby Smith surrendered all of them, West of that river.

On that day, organized, armed Rebellion against the United States ceased, and became a thing
of the past.  It had been conquered, stamped out, and extinguished, while its civic head, Jefferson
Davis, captured May 11th, at Irwinsville, Georgia, while attempting to escape, was, with other
leading Rebels, a prisoner in a Union fort.  Four years of armed Rebellion had been enough
for them.  They were absolutely sick of it. And the magnanimity of the terms given them by
Grant, completed their subjugation.  "The wisdom of his course," says Badeau,  "was proved
by the haste which the Rebels made to yield everything they had fought for. They were ready
not only to give up their arms, but literally to implore forgiveness of the Government.  They
acquiesced in the abolition of Slavery.  They abandoned the heresy of Secession, and waited
to learn what else their conquerors would dictate.  They dreamed not of political power.  They
only asked to be let live quietly under the flag they had outraged, and attempt in some degree
to rebuild their shattered fortunes.  The greatest General of the Rebellion asked for pardon."

                             CHAPTER XXXI.

                             ASSASSINATION!

But while some of the great Military events alluded to in the preceding Chapter, had been transpiring
at the theatre of War, something else had happened at the National Capital, so momentous, so
atrocious, so execrable, that it was with difficulty the victorious soldiers of the Union,
when they first heard the news, could be restrained from turning upon the then remaining armed
Rebels, and annihilating them in their righteous fury.

Let us go back, for a moment, to President Lincoln, whom we left on board the Ocean Queen,
at City Point, toward the end of March and the beginning of April, receiving dispatches from
Grant, who was victoriously engaged at the front.  On the very day that Richmond fell --April
4th--President Lincoln, with his little son "Tad," Admiral Porter, and others, visited the
burning city, and held a reception in the parlors of the Mansion which had now, for so many
years, been occupied by the Chief Conspirator, Jefferson Davis, and which had been precipitately
abandoned when the flight of that Arch-Rebel and his "Cabinet" commenced.  On the 6th, the
President, accompanied by his wife, Vice-President Johnson, and others from Washington, again
visited Richmond, and received distinguished Virginians, to whom he addressed words of wisdom
and patriotism.

     ["On this occasion," says Arnold, "he was called upon by several
     prominent citizens of Virginia, anxious to learn what the policy of
     the Government towards them would be.  Without committing himself
     to specific details, he satisfied them that his policy would be
     magnanimous, forgiving, and generous.  He told these Virginians
     they must learn loyalty and devotion to the Nation.  They need not
     love Virginia less, but they must love the Republic more."]

On the 9th of April, he returned to Washington, and the same day--his last Sunday on Earth--came
the grand and glorious news of Lee's surrender.

On the Wednesday evening following, he made a lengthy speech, at the White House, to the great
crowd that had assembled about it, to congratulate him, and the Nation, upon the downfall of
Rebellion.  His first thought in that speech, was of gratitude to God.  His second, to put
himself in the background, and to give all the credit of Union Military success, to those who,
under God, had achieved it.

This speech was almost entirely devoted to the subject of reconstruction of the States lately
in Rebellion, and to an argument in favor of the Reconstruction policy, under which a new and
loyal government had been formed for the State of Louisiana.

While, however, Mr. Lincoln thus upheld and defended this Louisiana plan of reconstruction,
yet he conceded that in applying it to other States, with their varying conditions, "no exclusive
and inflexible plan can safely be prescribed as to details and collaterals."  The entire speech
shows the greatest solicitude to make no mistake necessitating backward steps, and consequent
delay in reconstructing the Rebel States into Loyal ones; and especially anxious was he, in
this, his last public utterance, touching the outcome of his great life-work, Emancipation.

On Thursday, by the President's direction, a War Department Order was drawn up and issued,
putting an end to drafting and recruiting, and the purchase of Military supplies, and removing
all restrictions which Military necessity had imposed upon the trade and commerce and intercourse
of any one part of the Union with the other.  On Friday, the 14th of April, there was a meeting
of the Cabinet at noon, to receive a report from General Grant, in person--he having just arrived
from the scene of Lee's surrender.  At Ford's Theatre, that evening, was played "The American
Cousin," and it had been announced that both the President and General Grant would be present.
Grant, however, was prevented from attending.  President Lincoln attended with reluctance--possibly
because of a presentiment which he had that day had, that "something serious is going to happen,"
of which he made mention at the Cabinet meeting aforesaid.

It was about 9 o-clock P.M., that the President, with Mrs. Lincoln, Major Rathbone, and Miss
Harris, entered the Theatre, and, after acknowledging with a bow the patriotic acclamations
with which the audience saluted him, entered the door of the private box, reserved for his
party, which was draped with the folds of the American flag.  At half past 10 o'clock, while
all were absorbed in the play, a pistol-shot was heard, and a man, brandishing a bloody dagger,
was seen to leap to the stage from the President's box, crying "Sic Semper Tyrannis!" His spurred
boot, catching in the bunting, tripped him, so that he half fell and injured one leg, but instantly
recovered himself, and, shouting "The South is avenged!" rushed across the stage, and disappeared.
It was an actor, John Wilkes Booth by name, who--inspired with all the mad, unreasoning, malignant
hatred of everything representing Freedom and Union, which was purposely instilled into the
minds and hearts of their followers and sympathizers by the Rebel leaders and their chief accomplices
in the North--had basely skulked into the box, behind Mr. Lincoln, mortally wounded him with
a pistol-bullet, and escaped--after stabbing Major Rathbone for vainly striving to arrest the
vile assassin's flight.  Abraham Lincoln never spoke again.  The early beams of the tomorrow's
sun touched, but failed to warm, the lifeless remain of the great War-President and Liberator,
as they were borne, in mournful silence, back to the White House, mute and ghastly witness
of the sheer desperation of those who, although armed Rebellion, in the open field, by the
fair and legitimate modes of Military warfare, had ceased, were determined still to keep up
that cowardly "fire in the rear" which had been promised to the Rebel leaders by their Northern
henchmen and sympathizers.

The assassination of President Lincoln was but a part of the plot of Booth and his murderous
Rebel-sympathizing fellow conspirators.  It was their purpose also to kill Grant, and Seward,
and other prominent members of the Cabinet, simultaneously, in the wild hope that anarchy might
follow, and Treason find its opportunity.  In this they almost miraculously failed, although
Seward was badly wounded by one of the assassins.

That the Rebel authorities were cognizant of, and encouraged, this dastardly plot, cannot be
distinctly proven.  But, while they naturally would be likely, especially in the face of the
storm of public exasperation which it raised throughout the Union, to disavow all knowledge
of, or complicity in, the vengeful murder of President Lincoln, and to destroy all evidences
possible of any such guilty knowledge or complicity, yet there will ever be a strong suspicion
that they were not innocent.  From the time when it was first known that Mr. Lincoln had been
elected President, the air was full of threats that he should not live to be inaugurated.

Equally certain also, is it, that the Rebel authorities were utterly indifferent to the means
that might be availed of to secure success to Rebellion.  Riots and arson, were among the mildest
methods proposed to be used in the Northern cities, to make the War for the Union a "failure"--as
their Northern Democratic allies termed it--while, among other more devilish projects, was
that of introducing cholera and yellow fever into the North, by importing infected rags!  Another
much-talked-of scheme throughout the War, was that of kidnapping President Lincoln, and other
high officials of the Union Government. There is also evidence, that the Rebel chiefs not only
received, but considered, the plans of desperadoes and cut-throats looking to the success of
the Rebellion by means of assassination.  Thus, in a footnote to page 448, vol. ii., of his
"Civil War in America," Lossing does not hesitate to characterize Jefferson Davis as "the crafty
and malignant Chief Conspirator, who seems to have been ready at all times to entertain propositions
to assassinate, by the hand of secret murder, the officers of the Government at Washington;"
and, after fortifying that statement by a reference to page 523 of the first volume of his
work, proceeds to say: "About the time (July, 1862) we are now considering, a Georgian, named
Burnham, wrote to Jefferson Davis, proposing to organize a corps of five hundred assassins,
to be distributed over the North, and sworn to murder President Lincoln, members of his Cabinet,
and leading Republican Senators, and other supporters of the Government.  This proposition
was made in writing, and was regularly filed in the 'Confederate War Department,' indorsed
'Respectfully referred to the Secretary of War, by order of the President,' and signed 'J.
C  Ives.' Other communications of similar tenor, 'respectfully referred' by Jefferson Davis,
were placed on file in that 'War Department.'"  All the denials, therefore, of the Rebel chieftains,
as to their complicity in the various attempts to assassinate Abraham Lincoln, ending with
his dastardly murder in April, 1865, will not clear their skirts of the odium of that unparalleled
infamy.  It will cling to them, living or dead, until that great Day of Judgment when the exact
truth shall be made known, and "their sin shall find them out."

     [The New York Tribune, August 16, 1885, under the heading "A NARROW
     ESCAPE OF LINCOLN," quotes an interesting "Omaha Letter, to the St.
     Paul Pioneer Press," as follows:

     "That more than one attempt was made to assassinate Abraham Lincoln
     is a fact known to John W. Nichols, ex-president of the Omaha Fire
     Department.  Mr. Nichols was one of the body-guard of President
     Lincoln from the Summer of 1862 until 1865.  The grounds are situated about a
     quarter of a mile off the Bladensburg road, and are reached by
     devious driveways.  This
     horse was Mr. Lincoln's favorite, and when he was in the White
     House stables he always chose him.  As horse and rider approached
     the gate, I noticed that the President was bareheaded.  The shot had been fired upwards, and it
     was evident that the person who fired the shot had secreted himself
     close to the roadside.  He rather
     unconcernedly remarked that it was put there by some foolish
     gunner, and was not intended for him.  He said, however, that he
     wanted the matter kept quiet, and admonished us to say nothing
     about it.  We all felt confident that it was an attempt to kill
     him, and a well-nigh successful one, too.  The affair was kept
     quiet, in accordance with his request.  After that, the President
     never rode alone.'"]

That this dark and wicked and bloody Rebellion, waged by the upholders and advocates of Slavery,
Free Trade, and Secession, had descended so low as to culminate in murder--deliberate, cold-blooded,
cowardly murder--at a time when the Southern Conspirators would apparently be the least benefitted
by it, was regarded at first as evidencing their mad fatuity; and the public mind was dreadfully
incensed.

The successor of the murdered President-Andrew Johnson-lost little time in offering (May the
2d) rewards, ranging from $25,000 to $100,000, for the arrest of Jefferson Davis, Jacob Thompson,

     [The same individual at whose death, in 1885, the Secretary of the
     Interior, ordered the National flag of the Union--which he had
     swindled, betrayed, fought, spit upon, and conspired against--to be
     lowered at halfmast over the Interior Departmental Building, at
     Washington, D. C.]

Clement C. Clay, Beverly Tucker, George N.  Sanders, and W. C. Cleary, in a Proclamation which
directly charged that they, "and other Rebels and Traitors against the Government of the United
States, harbored in Canada," had "incited, concerted, and procured" the perpetration of the
appalling crime.

On the 10th of May, one of them, Jacob Thompson, from his place of security, in Canada, published
a letter claiming to be innocent; characterized himself as "a persecuted man;" arrayed certain
suspicious facts in support of an intimation that Johnson himself was the only one man in the
Republic who would be benefited by President Lincoln's death; and, as he was found "asleep"
at the "unusual hour" of nine o'clock P.M., of the 14th of April, and had made haste to take
the oath of office as President of the United States as soon as the breath had left the body
of his predecessor, insinuated that he (Johnson) might with more reason be suspected of "complicity"
in "the foul work" than the "Rebels and Traitors" charged with it, in his Proclamation; so
charged, for the very purpose--Thompson insinuated--of shielding himself from discovery, and
conviction!

But while, for a moment, perhaps, there flitted across the public mind a half suspicion of
the possibility of what this Rebel intimated as true, yet another moment saw it dissipated.
For the People remembered that between "Andrew Johnson," one of the "poor white trash" of Tennessee,
and the "aristocratic Slave-owners" of the South, who headed the Rebellion, there could be
neither sympathy nor cooperation--nothing, but hatred; and that this same Andrew Johnson, who,
by power of an indomitable will, self-education, and natural ability, had, despite the efforts
of that "aristocracy," forced himself upward, step by step, from the tailor's bench, to the
successful honors of alderman and Mayor, and then still upward through both branches of his
State Legislature, into the House of Representatives and the Senate of the United States--and,
in the latter Body, had so gallantly met, and worsted in debate, the chosen representatives
of that class upon whose treasonable heads he poured forth in invective, the gathered hatred
of a life-time--would probably be the very last man whom these same "aristocratic" Conspirators,
"Rebels, and Traitors," would prefer as arbiter of their fate.

The popular feeling responded heartily, at this time, to the denunciations which, in his righteous
indignation, he had, in the Senate, and since, heaped upon Rebellion, and especially his declaration
that "Treason must be made odious!"--utterances now substantially reiterated by him more vehemently
than ever, and multiplied in posters and transparencies and newspapers all over the Land. 
Thus the public mind rapidly grew to believe it impossible that the Rebel leaders could gain,
by the substitution, in the Executive chair, of this harsh, determined, despotic nature, for
the mild, kindly, merciful, even-tempered, Abraham Lincoln.  With Andrew Johnson for President,
the People felt that justice would fall upon the heads of the guilty, and that the Country
was safe.  And so it happened that, while the mere instruments of the assassination conspiracy
were hurried to an ignominious death, in the lull that followed, Jefferson Davis and others
of the Rebel chiefs, who had been captured and imprisoned, were allowed to go "Scott-free,
without even the semblance of a trial for their Treason!"

It is not the purpose of this work to deal with the history of the Reconstruction or rehabilitation
of the Rebel States; to look too closely into the devious ways and subtle methods through and
by which the Rebel leaders succeeded in flattering the vanity, and worming themselves into
the confidence and control, of Andrew Johnson--by pretending to believe that his occupation
of the Presidential Office had now, at last, brought him to their "aristocratic" altitude,
and to a hearty recognition by them of his "social equality;" or to follow, either in or out
of Congress, the great political conflict, between their unsuspecting Presidential dupe and
the Congress, which led to the impeachment trial of President Andrew Johnson, for high crimes
and misdemeanors in office, his narrow escape from conviction and deposition, and to much consequent
excitement and turmoil among the People, which, but for wise counsels and prudent forethought
of the Republican leaders, in both Civil and Military life, might have eventuated in the outbreak
of serious civil commotions.  Suffice it to say, that in due time; long after the Thirteenth
Amendment to the United States Constitution had been ratified by three-fourths of all the States;
after Johnson had vexed the White House, with his noisy presence, for the nearly four years
succeeding the death of the great and good Lincoln; and after the People, with almost unexampled
unanimity, had called their great Military hero, Grant, to the helm of State; the difficult
and perplexing problems involved in the Reconstruction of the Union were, at last, successfully
solved by the Republican Party, and every State that had been in armed Rebellion against that
Union, was not only back again, with a Loyal State Constitution, but was represented in both
branches of Congress, and in other Departments of the National Government.

                             CHAPTER XXXII.

                        TURNING BACK THE HANDS!

And now, the War having ended in the defeat, conquest, and capture, of those who, inspired
by the false teachings of Southern leaders, had arrayed themselves in arms beneath the standard
of Rebellion, and fought for Sectional Independence against National Union, for Slavery against
Freedom, and for Free Trade against a benignant Tariff protective alike to manufacturer, mechanic,
and laborer, it might naturally be supposed that, with the collapse of this Rebellion, all
the issues which made up "the Cause"--the "Lost Cause," as those leaders well termed it--would
be lost with it, and disappear from political sight; that we would never again hear of a Section
of the Nation, and last of all the Southern Section, organized, banded together, solidified
in the line of its own Sectional ideas as against the National ideas prevailing elsewhere through
the Union; that Free Trade, conscious of the ruin and desolation which it had often wrought,
and of the awful sacrifices, in blood and treasure, that had been made in its behalf by the
conquered South, would slink from sight and hide its famine-breeding front forever; and that
Slavery, in all its various disguises, was banished, never more to obtrude its hateful form
upon our Liberty-loving Land.  That was indeed the supposition and belief which everywhere
pervaded the Nation, when Rebellion was conquered by the legions of the Union--and which especially
pervaded the South.  Never were Rebels more thoroughly exhausted and sick of Rebellion and
of everything that led to it, than these.  As Badeau said, they made haste "to yield everything
they had fought for," and "dreamed not of political power."  They had been brought to their
knees, suing for forgiveness, and thankful that their forfeit lives were spared.

For awhile, with chastened spirit, the reconstructed South seemed to reconcile itself in good
faith to the legitimate results of the War, and all went well.  But Time and Peace soon obliterate
the lessons and the memories of War.  And it was not very long after the Rebellion had ceased,
and the old issues upon which it was fought had disappeared from the arena of National politics,
when its old leaders and their successors began slowly, carefully, and systematically, to relay
the tumbled-down, ruined foundations and walls of the Lost Cause--a work in which, unfortunately,
they were too well aided by the mistaken clemency and magnanimity of the Republican Party,
in hastily removing the political disabilities of those leaders.

Before proceeding farther, it is necessary to remark here, that, after the suppression of the
Rebellion and adoption of the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
which prohibits Slavery and Involuntary Servitude within the United States, it soon became
apparent that it was necessary to the protection of the Freedmen, in the civil and political
rights and privileges which it was considered desirable to secure to them, as well as to the
creation and fostering of a wholesome loyal sentiment in, and real reconstruction of, the States
then lately insurgent, and for certain other reasons, that other safeguards, in the shape of
further Amendments to the Constitution, should be adopted.

Accordingly the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments were, on the 16th of June, 1866, and 27th
of February, 1869, respectively, proposed by Congress to the Legislatures of the several States,
and were declared duly ratified, and a part of the Constitution, respectively on the 28th of
July, 1868, and March 30, 1870.

It would seem, then, from the provisions of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments
to the Constitution, and the Congressional legislation subsequently enacted for the purpose
of enforcing them, that not only the absolute personal Freedom of every man, woman, and child
in the United States was thus irrevocably decreed; that United States citizenship was clearly
defined; that the life, liberty, property, privileges and immunities of all were secured by
throwing around them the "equal protection of the laws;" that the right of the United States
citizen to vote, was placed beyond denial or abridgment, on "account of race, color, or previous
condition of servitude;" but, to make this more certain, the basis of Congressional Representative-apportionment
was changed from its former mixed relation, comprehending both persons and "property," so-called,
to one of personal numbers--the Black man now counting quite as much as the White man, instead
of only three-fifths as much; and it was decreed, that, except for crime, any denial to United
States citizens, whether Black or White, of the right to vote at any election of Presidential
electors, Congressional Representatives, State Governors, Judges, or Legislative members, "shall"
work a reduction, proportioned to the extent of such denial, in the Congressional Representation
of the State, or States, guilty of it.  As a further safeguard, in the process of reconstruction,
none of the insurgent States were rehabilitated in the Union except upon acceptance of those
three Amendments as an integral part of the United States Constitution, to be binding upon
it; and it was this Constitution as it is, and not the Constitution as it was, that all the
Representatives, in both Houses of Congress, from those insurgent States--as well as all their
State officers--swore to obey as the supreme law of the Land, when taking their respective
oaths of office.

Biding their time, and pretending to act in good faith, as the years rolled by, the distrust
and suspicion with which the old Rebel-conspirators had naturally been regarded, gradually
lessened in the public mind.  With a glad heart, the Congress, year after year, removed the
political disabilities from class after class of those who had incurred them, until at last
all, so desiring, had been reinstated in the full privileges of citizenship, save the very
few unrepentant instigators and leaders of the Rebellion, who, in the depths of that oblivion
to which they seemingly had been consigned, continued to nurse the bitterness of their downfall
into an implacable hatred of that Republic which had paralyzed the bloody hands of Rebellion,
and shattered all their ambitious dreams of Oligarchic rule, if not of Empire.

But, while the chieftains of the great Conspiracy--and of the armed Rebellion itself--remained
at their homes unpunished, through the clemency of the American People; the active and malignant
minds of some of them were plotting a future triumph for the "Lost Cause," in the overthrow,
in consecutive detail, of the Loyal governments of the Southern States, by any and all means
which might be by them considered most desirable, judicious, expedient, and effectual; the
solidifying of these Southern States into a new Confederation, or league, in fact--with an
unwritten but well understood Constitution of its own--to be known under the apparently harmless
title of the "Solid South," whose mission it would be to build up, and strengthen, and populate,
and enrich itself within the Union, for a time, greater or less, according to circumstances,
and in the meanwhile to work up, with untiring devotion and energy, not only to this practical
autonomy and Sectional Independence within the Union, but also to a practical re-enslavement
of the Blacks, and to the vigorous reassertion and triumph, by the aid of British gold, of
those pernicious doctrines of Free-Trade which, while beneficial to the Cotton-lords of the
South, would again check and drag down the robust expansion of manufactures and commerce in
all other parts of the Land, and destroy the glorious prosperity of farmers, mechanics, and
laborers, while at the same time crippling Capital, in the North and West.

In order to accomplish these results--after whatever of suspicion and distrust that might have
still remained in Northern minds had been removed by the public declaration in 1874, by one
of the ablest and most persuasively eloquent of Southern statesmen, that "The South--prostrate,
exhausted, drained of her life-blood as well as of her material resources, yet still honorable
and true--accepts the bitter award of the bloody arbitrament without reservation, resolutely
determined to abide the result with chivalrous fidelity"--these old Rebel leaders commenced
in good earnest to carry out their well organized programme, which they had already experimentally
tested, to their own satisfaction, in certain localities.

The plan was this: By the use of shot-guns and rifles, and cavalcades of armed white Democrats,
in red shirts, riding around the country at dead of night, whipping prominent Republican Whites
and Negroes to death, or shooting or hanging them if thought advisable, such terror would fall
upon the colored Republican voters that they would keep away from the polls, and consequently
the white Democrats, undeterred by such influences, and on the contrary, eager to take advantage
of them, would poll not only a full vote, but a majority vote, on all questions, whether involving
the mere election of Democratic officials, or otherwise; and where intimidation of this, or
any other kind, should fail, then a resort to be had to whatever devices might be found necessary
to make a fraudulent count and return, and thus secure Democratic triumph; and furthermore,
when evidences of these intimidations and frauds should be presented to those people of the
Union who believe in every citizen of this free Republic having one free vote, and that vote
fairly counted, then to laugh the complainants out of Court with the cry that such stories
are not true; are "campaign lies" devised solely for political effect; and are merely the product
of Republican "outrage mills," ground out, to order.

This plan was first thoroughly tried in Mississippi, and has hence been called the "Mississippi
plan."  So magically effectual was it, that, with variations adapted to locality and circumstances,
this "Mississippi plan" soon enveloped the entire South in its mesh-work of fraud, barbarity,
and blood.  The massacres, and other outrages, while methodical, were remittent, wave-like,
sometimes in one Southern State, sometimes another, and occurring only in years of hot political
conflict, until one after another of those States had, by these crimes, been again brought
under the absolute control of the old Rebel leaders. By 1876, they had almost succeeded in
their entire programme.  They had captured all, save three, of the Southern States, and strained
every nerve and every resource of unprincipled ingenuity, of bribery and perjury, after the
Presidential election of that year had taken place, in the effort to defeat the will of the
People and "count in," the Presidential candidate of the Democratic Party.

     [The shameful history of the "Tilden barrel" and the "Cipher
     Dispatches" is too fresh in the public mind to be entirely
     forgotten,]

Failing in this effort, the very failure became a grievance.  On the principle of a fleeing
thief diverting pursuit by shouting "Stop thief," the cry of "fraud" was raised by the Democratic
leaders, North and South, against the Republican Party, and was iterated and reiterated so
long and loudly, that soon they actually began, themselves, to believe, that President Hayes
had been "counted in," by improper methods!  At all events, under cover of the hue and cry
thus raised, the Southern leaders hurried up their work of Southern solidification, by multiplied
outrages on the "Mississippi plan," so that, by 1880, they were ready to dictate, and did dictate,
the Democratic Presidential nominations.

     [Senator Wallace, of Pennsylvania, telegraphed from Cincinnati his
     congratulations to General Hancock, and added: "General Buell tells
     me that Murat Halsted says Hancock's nomination by the Confederate
     Brigadiers sets the old Rebel yell to the music of the Union."  In
     the Convention which nominated Hancock, Wade Hampton made a speech,
     saying; "On behalf of the 'Solid South,' that South which once was
     arrayed against the great soldier of Pennsylvania, I stand here to
     pledge you its solid vote.  [cheers] * * * There is no name which
     is held in higher respect among the people of the South, than that
     of the man you have given to us as our standard-bearer."  And
     afterward, in a speech at Staunton, Virginia, the same Southern
     leader, in referring to the action of the Democratic Convention at
     Cincinnati, said: "There was but one feeling among the Southern
     delegates.

It may also be remarked that, under the inspiration of those Southern leaders who afterward
rebelled, it had been laid down as Democratic doctrine, in the National Democratic platform
of 1856--and "reaffirmed" as such, in 1860--that "The time has come for the People of the United
States to declare themselves in favor of * * * progressive Free-Trade. * * *  That justice
and sound policy forbid the Federal Government to foster one branch of industry to the detriment
of another."  But, by 1864, the Republican Protective-Tariff of 1860, had so abundantly demonstrated,
to all our people engaged in industrial occupations, the beneficence of the great principle
of home industrial Protection, that Tariff-agitation actually ceased, and the National Democratic
platform of that year had nothing to say in behalf of Free-Trade!

After the close of the War, however, at the very first National Democratic Convention, in 1868,
at which there were delegations from the lately rebellious States, the question was at once
brought to the front, and, under the inspiration of the old Rebel leaders aforesaid, the Democratic
platform again raised the banner of Free-Trade by declaring for a Tariff for revenue.  But
the mass of the People, at that time still freshly remembered the terrible commercial disasters
and industrial depressions which had befallen the Land, through the practical operation of
that baleful Democratic Free-Trade doctrine, before the Rebellion broke out, and sharply contrasted
the misery and poverty and despair of those dark days of ruin and desolation, with the comfort
and prosperity and hopefulness which had since come to them through the Republican Protective-Tariff
Accordingly, the Republican Presidential candidate, representing the great principle of Protection
to American Industries, was elected over the Democratic Free-Trade candidate, by 214 to 71
electoral votes-or nearly three to one! The People, however, rebuked the moral cowardice thus
exhibited by the Democracy--in avoiding a direct issue on the doctrine which Democracy itself
had galvanized at least into simulated life,--by giving 286 electoral votes to the Republican
candidate, to 63 for the Democratic, --or in the proportion of nearly five to one.

Warned, by this overwhelming defeat, not to flinch from, or avoid, or try to convert the great
National question of Tariff, into a merely local one, the National Democratic platform of 1876,
at the instigation of the old Rebel leaders of the now fast solidifying South, came out flat-footedly
again with the "demand that all Custom-house taxation shall be only for revenue."  This time,
the electoral vote stood almost evenly divided, viz.: for the Republican candidate, 185; for
the Democratic candidate, 184;--a result so extremely close, as to lead to the attempted perpetration
of great frauds against the successful candidate; the necessary settlement of the questions
growing out of them, by an Electoral commission--created by Congress at the instance of the
Democratic Party; great irritation, among the defeated Democracy, over the just findings of
that august Tribunal; and to the birth of the alleged Democratic "grievance," aforesaid.

The closeness of this vote--their almost triumph, in 1876,--encouraged the Solid South to press
upon the National Democratic Convention of 1880, the expediency of adopting a Free-Trade "plank"
similar to that with which, in 1876, they had so nearly succeeded.  Hence the Democratic platform
of 1880, also declared decidedly for "A Tariff for revenue only."

The old Rebel leaders, at last in full control of the entire Democratic Party, had now got
things pretty much as they wanted them.  They had created that close corporation within the
Union--that /imperium in imperio/ that oligarchically--governed league of States (within the
Republic of the United States) which they termed the "Solid South," and which would vote as
a unit, on all questions, as they directed; they had dictated the nomination, by the Democratic
Party, of a Presidential candidate who would not dare to act counter to their wishes; and their
pet doctrine of Free-Trade was held up, to the whole Democratic front, under the attractive
disguise of a Tariff for revenue only.

     [As Ex-Senator Toombs, of Georgia, wrote: "The old boys of the
     South will see that 'Hancock' does the fair thing by them.  In
     other words, he will run the machine to suit them, or they will run
     the thing themselves.  They are not going to be played with any
     longer."]

In other words, they had already secured a "Solid South," an "available" candidate, and an
"expedient" Free-Trade platform.  All that remained for them, at this stage, to do, was to
elect the candidate, and enact their Free-Trade doctrine into legislation.

Unfortunately, however, for their plans, an attempt made by them, under the lead of Mr. Morrison
of Illinois, in 1876, to meddle with the Republican Protective-Tariff, had caused considerable
public alarm, and had been credited with having much to do with a succeeding monetary panic,
and industrial depression.  Another and more determined effort, made by them in 1878, under
the lead of their old Copperhead ally, Fernando Wood, to cut down the wise Protective duties
imposed by the Tariff Act, about 15 per cent.,--together with the cold-blooded Free-Trade declaration
of Mr. Wood, touching his ruinous Bill, that "Its reductions are trifling as compared with
what they should be.  * * *  If I had the power to commence de novo, I should reduce the duties
50 per cent., instead of less than 15 per cent., upon an average as now proposed,"--an effort
which was narrowly, and with great difficulty, defeated by the Republicans, aided by a mere
handful of others,--had also occasioned great excitement throughout the Country, the suspension
and failure of thousands of business firms, the destruction of confidence in the stability
and profitableness of American industries, and great consequent suffering, and enforced idleness,
to the working men and working women of the Land.

The sad recollection of these facts--made more poignant by the airy declaration of the Democratic
Presidential candidate, that the great National question of the Tariff is a mere "local issue,"--was
largely instrumental, in connection with the insolent aggressiveness of the Southern leaders,
in Congress, in occasioning their defeat in the Presidential contest of 1880, the Republican
candidate receiving 214 electoral votes, while the Democratic candidate received but 155 electoral
votes.

In 1882, the House of Representatives was under Republican control, and, despite determined
Democratic resistance, created a Tariff-commission, whose duty it was "to take into consideration,
and to thoroughly investigate, all the various questions relating to the agricultural, commercial,
mercantile, manufacturing, mining, and (other) industrial interests of the United States, so
far as the same may be necessary to the establishment of a judicious Tariff, or a revision
of the existing Tariff, upon a scale of justice to all interests."

That same year, in the face of most protracted and persistent opposition by the great bulk
of Democratic members, both of the Senate and House of Representatives, and an effort to substitute
for it the utterly ruinous Democratic Free-Trade Tariff of 1846, the Bill recommended by this
Republican Tariff-commission, was enacted; and, in 1883, a modified Tariff-measure, comprehending
a large annual reduction of import duties, while also carefully preserving the great Republican
American principle of Protection, was placed by the Republicans on the Statute-book, despite
the renewed and bitter opposition of the Democrats, who, as usual, fought it desperately in
both branches of Congress.  But Republican efforts failed in 1884, in the interest of the wool-growers
of the country, to restore the Protective-duties on wool, which had been sacrificed, in 1883,
to an exigency created by Democratic opposition to them.

Another Democratic effort, in the direction of Free-Trade, known as "the Morrison Tariff-Bill
of 1884," was made in the latter year, which, besides increasing the free-list, by adding to
it salt, coal, timber, and wood unmanufactured, as well as many manufactures thereof, decreased
the import duties "horizontally" on everything else to the extent of twenty per cent.  The
Republicans, aided by a few Democrats, killed this undigested and indigestible Democratic Bill,
by striking out its enacting clause.

By this time, however, by dint of the incessant special-pleading in behalf of the obnoxious
and un-American doctrine of Free-Trade,--or the nearest possible approach to it, consistent
with the absolutely essential collection of revenues for the mere support of the Government
--indulged in (by some of the professors) in our colleges of learning; through a portion of
the press; upon the stump; and in Congress; together with the liberal use of British gold in
the wide distribution of printed British arguments in its favor,--this pernicious but favorite
idea of the Solid South had taken such firm root in the minds of the greater part of the Democratic
Party in the North and West, as well as the South, that a declaration in the National Democratic
platform in its favor was now looked for, as a matter of course.  The "little leaven" of this
monstrous un-American heresy seemed likely to leaven "the whole mass" of the Democracy.

But, as in spite of the tremendous advantage given to that Party by the united vote of the
Solid South, the Presidential contest of 1884 was likely to be so close that, to give Democracy
any chance to win, the few Democrats opposed to Free-Trade must be quieted, the utterances
of the Democratic National Platform of that year, on the subject, were so wonderfully pieced,
and ludicrously intermixed, that they could be construed to mean "all things to all men."

At last, after an exciting campaign, the Presidential election of 1884 was held, and for the
first time since 1856, the old Free-Trade Democracy of the South could rejoice over the triumph
of their Presidential candidate.

Great was the joy of the Solid South!  At last, its numberless crimes against personal Freedom,
and political Liberty, would reap a generous harvest.  At last, participation in Rebellion
would no more be regarded as a blot upon the political escutcheon.  At last, commensurate rewards
for all the long years of disconsolate waiting, and of hard work in night ridings, and house-burnings,
and "nigger"-whippings, and "nigger"-shootings, and "nigger"-hangings, and ballot-box stuffings,
and all the other dreadful doings to which these old leaders were impelled by a sense of Solid-Southern
patriotism, and pride of race, and lust for power, would come, and come in profusion.

Grand places in the Cabinet, and foreign Missions, for the old Rebels of distinction, now Chiefs
of the "Solid-Southern" Conspiracy, and for those other able Northern Democrats who had helped
them, during or since the Rebellion; fat consulates abroad, for others of less degree; post-offices,
without stint, for the lesser lights; all this, and more, must now come.  The long-hidden light
of a glorious day was about to break. The "restoration of the Government to the principles
and practices of the earlier period," predicted by the unreconstructed "Rebel chieftains" those
"same principles for which they fought for four years" the principles of Southern Independence,
Slavery, Free Trade and Oligarchic rule--were now plainly in sight, and within reach!

The triumph of the Free-Trade Democracy, if continued to another Presidential election, would
make Free-Trade a certainty.  The old forms of Slavery, to be sure, were dead beyond reanimation--perhaps;
but, in their place, were other forms of Slavery, which attracted less attention and reprobation
from the World at large, and yet were quite as effectual for all Southern purposes.  The system
of Peonage and contracted convict-labor, growing out of the codes of Black laws, were all-sufficient
to keep the bulk of the Negro race in practical subjection and bondage.  The solidifying of
the South had already made the South not only practically independent within the Union, but
the overshadowing power, potential enough to make, and unmake, the rulers and policies of the
Democratic Party, and of that Union.

This, indeed, was a grand outcome for the tireless efforts of the once defeated Conspirators!
And as to Oligarchal rule--the rule of the few (and those the Southern chiefs) over the many,--was
not that already accomplished?  For these old Rebel leaders and oligarchs who had secured the
supreme rule over the Solid South, had also, through their ability to wield the power of that
Solid South within the Union, actually secured the power of practically governing the entire Union!

That Union, then, which we have been wont to look upon as the grandest, noblest, freest, greatest
Republic upon Earth,--is it really such, in all respects, at the present?  Does the Free Republic
of the United States exist, in fact, to-day?

                            CHAPTER XXXIII.

                               WHAT NEXT?

And what next?  Aye, what next?  Do the patriotic, innocent-minded lovers of a Republican form
of Government imagine, for an instant, that all danger to its continued existence and well-being
has ceased to threaten?--that all the crises perilous to that beneficent popular governmental
form have vanished?--that the climacteric came, and went, with the breaking out, and suppression,
of the Rebellion?--and that there is nothing alarming in the outlook?  Quite likely.  The public
mind has not yet been aroused to a sense of the actual revolution against Republican form of
government that has already taken place in many of the Southern States, much less as to the
likelihood of things to come.  The people of any one of the Western, or Northern States,--take
New York, for example,--feel prosperous and happy under the beneficent workings of the Republican
Protective-Tariff system.  Business, of all sorts, recovering from the numerous attacks made
upon that prime bulwark of our American industries, if only let alone, will fairly hum, and
look bright, so far as "the Almighty dollar" is concerned.  They know they have their primaries
and conventions, in their wards and counties throughout their State, and their State Conventions,
and their elections.  They know that the voice of the majority of their own people, uttered
through the sacred ballot-box, is practically the Vox Dei--and that all bow to it.  But they
do not realize the vastly different condition of things in many States of the Solid South,
nor how it affects themselves.

And what is this "republican" form of government, thus pledged?  It is true that there are
not wanting respectable authorities whose definitions of the words "republic," and "republican,"
are strongly inharmonious with their true meaning, as correctly understood by the great bulk
of Americans.  Thus, Brande asserts that "A republic may be either a democracy or an aristocracy!"--and
proceeds to say: "In the former, the supreme power is vested in the whole body of the people,
or in representatives elected by the people; in the latter, it is vested in a nobility, or
a privileged class of comparatively a small number of persons."  John Adams also wrote: "The
customary meanings of the words republic and commonwealth have been infinite.  They have been
applied to every Government under heaven; that of Turkey and that of Spain, as well as that
of Athens and of Rome, of Geneva and San Marino."  But the true meaning of the word "republican"
as applied to a "form of government," and as commonly and almost invariably understood by those
who, above all others in the wide World, should best understand and appreciate its blessings--to
wit: the American People has none of the looseness and indefiniteness which these authorities
throw about it.

The prevailing and correct American idea is that "Republican" means: of, or pertaining to,
a Republic; that "Republic" means a thing, affair, or matter, closely related to, and touching
the "public;" and that the "public" are the "people"--not a small proportion of them, but "the
people at large," the whole community, the Nation, the commonalty, the generality.  Hence,
"a Republican form of government" is, in their opinion, plainly that form which is most closely
identified with, and representative of, the generality or majority of the people; or, in the
language of Dr. J. E. Worcester, it is "That form of government or of a State, in which the
supreme power is vested in the people, or in representatives elected by the people."

It is obvious that there can be no such thing as "a republic," which is, at the same time,
"an aristocracy;" for the moment that which was "a republic" becomes "an aristocracy," that
moment it ceases to be "a republic."  So also can there be no such thing as "a republic" which
is "an oligarchy," for, as "a republic" is a government of the many, or, as President Lincoln
well termed it, "a government of the people, by the people, for the people"--so it must cease
to be "a republic," when the supreme power is in the hands of the oligarchic few.

There can be but two kinds of republics proper--one a democratic republic, which is impossible
for a great and populous Nation like ours, but which may have answered for some of the small
republics of ancient Greece; the other, a representative republic, such as is boasted by the
United States.  That they meant this majority rule--this government by the many, instead of
the few--this rule of the People, as against any possible minority rule, by, or through, oligarchs
or aristocrats, is susceptible of proof in other ways.

It is a safe guide, in attempting to correctly expound the Constitution of the United States,
to be careful that the construction insisted on, is compatible and harmonious with the spirit
of that great instrument; so that--as was said by an eloquent and distinguished Massachusetts
statesman of twenty years ago, in discussing this very point--"the guarantee of a Republican
form of government must have a meaning congenial with the purposes of the Constitution."  Those
purposes, of course, are expressed in its preamble, or in the body of the instrument, or in
both.  The preamble itself, in this case, is sufficient to show them.  It commences with the
significant words: "We THE PEOPLE of the United States"--words, instinct with the very consciousness
of the possession of that supreme power by the People or public, which made this not only a
Nation, but a Republic; and, after stating the purposes or objects sought by the People in
thus instituting this Republic, proceeds to use that supreme political power vested in them,
by ordaining and establishing "this CONSTITUTION for the United States of America."  And, from
the very first article, down to the last, of that "Constitution," or "structure," or "frame,"
or "form" of government, already self-evidently and self-consciously and avowedly Republican,
that form is fashioned into a distinctively representative Republican government.

The purposes themselves, as declared in the preamble, for which the People of the United States
thus spake this representative Republic into being, are also full of light.

How is it possible, for instance, that "the Blessings of Liberty" are to be secured to "ourselves
and our Posterity," if citizens of the United States, despite the XVth Amendment of that Constitution,
find-through the machinations of political organizations --their right to vote, both abridged
and denied, in many of the States, "on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude?"
How, if, in such States, "the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, and
effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures," is habitually violated, despite the IVth
Amendment of that Constitution?  How, if, in such States, persons are notoriously and frequently
"deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law," in violation of the Vth
Amendment of that Constitution?  Yet such is the state of affairs generally prevalent in many
States of the Solid South.

These provisions in the Constitution were, with others, placed there for the very purpose of
securing "the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity," of promoting the "General
Welfare," of establishing "Justice," of insuring "domestic Tranquillity" and making "a more
perfect Union"--and the violation of those provisions, or any one of them, in any part of our
Land, by any part of our People, in any one of the States, is not only subversive of the Constitution,
and revolutionary, but constitutes a demand, in itself, upon the National Government, to obey
that imperative mandate of the Constitution (Sec.

     [The meaning of these words is correctly given in an opinion of
     Justice Bronson of New York (4 Hill's Reports, 146) in these words:

     "The meaning of the section then seems to be, that no member of the
     State shall be disfranchised or deprived of any of his rights or
     privileges unless the matter shall be adjudged against him upon
     trial had according to the course of common law.  The words 'due
     process of law' cannot mean less than a prosecution or suit
     instituted and conducted according to the prescribed forms and
     solemnities for ascertaining guilt or determining the title to
     property."]

It is well that the truth should be spoken out, and known of all men. The blame for this condition
of things belongs partly to the Republican Party.  The question is sometimes asked: "If these
outrages against citizenship, against the purity of the ballot, against humanity, against both
the letter and spirit of the Constitution of our Republic, are perpetrated, why is it that
the Republican Party--so long in power during their alleged perpetration--did not put a stop
to them?"  The answer is: that while there are remedial measures, and measures of prevention,
fully warranted by the Constitution--while there are Constitutional ways and means for the
suppression of such outrages--yet, out of exceeding tenderness of heart, which prompted the
hope and belief that the folly of continuing them must ere long come home to the Southern mind
and conscience, the Republican Party has been loath to put them in force.  The--best remedy
of all, and the best manner of administering it, lies with the people themselves, of those
States where these outrages are perpetrated.  Let them stop it.  The People of the United States
may be long-suffering, and slow to wrath; but they will not permit such things to continue forever.

When the Rebellion was quelled, the evil spirit which brought it about should have been utterly
crushed out, and none of the questions involved in it should have been permitted to be raised
again.  But the Republican Party acted from its heart, instead of its head.  It was merciful,
forgiving, and magnanimous.  In the magnificent sweep of its generosity to the erring son,
it perhaps failed to insure the exact justice to the other sons which was their right.  For,
as has already been shown in these pages, Free-Trade, imbedded in the Rebel Constitution, as
well as Slavery, entered into and became a part, and an essential part, of the Rebellion against
the Union--to triumph with Slavery, if the Rebellion succeeded--to fall with Slavery, if the
Rebellion failed.  And, while Slavery and Free-Trade, were two leading ideas inspiring the
Southern Conspirators and leaders in their Rebellion; Freedom to Man, and Protection to Labor,
were the nobler ideas inspiring those who fought for the Union.

The Morrill-Tariff of 1860, with modifications to it subsequently made by its Republican friends,
secured to the Nation, through the triumph of the Union arms, great and manifold blessings
and abundant prosperity flowing from the American Protective policy; while the Emancipation
proclamations, together with the Constitutional amendments, and Congressional legislation,
through the same triumph, and the acceptance of the legitimate results of the War, gave Freedom
to all within the Nation's bound aries.  This, at least, was the logical outcome of the failure
of the Rebellion.  Such was the general understanding, on all sides, at the conclusion of the
War.  Yet the Republican Party, in failing to stigmatize the heresy of Free Trade--which had
so large an agency in bringing about the equally heretical doctrines of State Sovereignty and
the right of Secession, and Rebellion itself,--as an issue or question settled by the War,
as a part and parcel of the Rebellion, was guilty of a grave fault of omission, some of the
ill-effects of which have already been felt, while others are yet to come. For, quickly after
the War of the Rebellion closed,--as has been already mentioned--the defeated Rebel leaders,
casting in their lot with their Democratic friends and allies, openly and without special rebuke,
prevailed upon the National Democracy to adopt the Rebel Free-Trade Shibboleth of "a Tariff
for revenue;" and that same Democracy, obtaining power and place, through violence and fraud
and falsehood at the so-called "elections" in the Solid Southern States, now threatens the
Country once more with iniquitous Free-Trade legislation, and all its attendant train of commercial
disasters and general industrial ruin.

Were Abraham Lincoln able bodily to revisit the United States to-day, how his keen gray eyes
would open in amazement, to find that many legitimate fruits of our Union victories had been
filched from us; that --save the honorable few, who, accepting the legitimate results of the
War, were still honestly striving for the success of principles harmonizing with such results,
and inuring to the general welfare--they who strove with all their might to wreck the Government,--were
now, --through the fraudulent and forcible restriction of voters in their right to vote--at
the helm of State; that these, who sought to ruin the Nation, had thus wrongfully usurped its
rule; that Free-Trade--after "running-a-muck" of panic and disaster, from the birth of the
Republic, to the outbreak of the Rebellion, with whose failure it should naturally have expired--was
now reanimated, and stood, defiantly threatening all the great industries of our Land; that
all his own painstaking efforts, and those of the band of devoted Patriots who stood by him
to free the Southern Slaves, had mainly resulted in hiding from sight the repulsive chains
of enforced servitude, under the outward garb of Freedom; that the old Black codes had simply
been replaced by enactments adapted to the new conditions; that the old system of African Slavery
had merely been succeeded by the heartless and galling system of African Peonage; that the
sacrifices made by him--including that of his martyrdom--had, to a certain extent, been made
in vain; that all the sacrifices, the sorrows, the sufferings, of this Nation, made in blood,
in tears, and in vast expenditures of time and treasure, had, in some degree, and in a certain
sense, been useless; that the Union, to be sure, was saved--but saved to be measurably perverted
from its grand purpose; that the power which animated Rebellion and which was supposed to have
expired in the "last ditch" with the "Lost Cause" had, by political legerdemain and jugglery
and violence, been regained; that the time had actually come for Patriots to take back seats,
while unrepentant Rebels came to the front; that the Republic still lived, but only by sufferance,
with the hands of Southern oligarchs about its palpitating throat--a Republic, not such as
he expected, where all men are equal before the law, and protected in their rights, but where
the rights of a certain class are persistently trampled under foot; that the people of the
Northern, Middle, and Western States, observing nothing beyond their own vicinage, so to speak,
and finding that each of their own States is still Republican in its form of government, persistently,
and perversely, shut their eyes to the election terrorism practiced in the Solid South by,
which the 16 solid, Southern States were, and are, solidified by these conspiring oligarchs
into one compact, and powerful, political mass, ever ready to be hurled, in and out of Congress,
against the best interests of the Nation--16 States, not all "Republican" in form, but many
of them Despotisms, in substance,--16 States, misnamed "Democratic," many of them ruled not
by a majority, but by an Oligarch-ridden minority--16 States, leagued, banded, bound solidly
together, as one great controlling Oligarchy, to hold, in its merciless and selfish hands,
the balance of power within this Republican Union; and that these confederated Southern States
are now actually able to dictate to all the other States of the Union, the particular man,
or men, to whose rule the Nation must submit, and the particular policy, or policies, which
the Nation must adopt and follow:

"What next?"--you ask--"What next?"  Alas, it is not difficult to predict!  Power, lawlessly
gained, is always mercilessly used.  Power, usurped, is never tamely surrendered.  The old
French proverb, that "revolutions never go backward," is as true to-day, as when it was written.
Already we see the signs of great preparations throughout the Solid South.  Already we hear
the shout of partisan hosts marshalled behind the leaders of the disarmed Rebellion, in order
that the same old political organization which brought distress upon this Land shall again
control the Government.  Already the spirit of the former aggressiveness is defiantly bestirring
itself.  The old chieftains intend to take no more chances.  They feel that their Great Conspiracy
is now assured of success, inside the Union.  They hesitate not to declare that the power once
held by them, and temporarily lost, is regained.  Like the Old Man of the Sea, they are now
on top, and they:

                     MEAN TO KEEP THERE--IF THEY CAN.

BIOGRAPHICAL ADDENDUM: As few readers 150 years later know of John Logan it seemed appropriate
to the eBook editor to append this short biography taken from the Encyclopedia Britanica of 1911:

LOGAN, JOHN ALEXANDER (1826-1886), American soldier and political leader, was born in what
is now Murphysborough, Jackson county, Illinois, on the 9th of February 1826. He had no schooling
until he was fourteen; he then studied for three years in Shiloh College, served in the Mexican
War as a lieutenant of volunteers, studied law in the office of an uncle, graduated from the
Law Department of Louisville University in 1851, and practised law with success.  He entered
politics as a Douglas Democrat, was elected county clerk in 1849, served in the State House
of Representatives in 1853-1854 and in 1857, and for a time, during the interval, was prosecuting
attorney of the Third Judicial District of Illinois.  In 1858 and 1860 he was elected as a
Democrat to the National House of Representatives. Though unattached and unenlisted, he fought
at Bull Run, and then returned to Washington, resigned his seat, and entered the Union army
as colonel of the 31st Illinois Volunteers, which he organized.  He was regarded as one of
the ablest officers who entered the army from civil life.  In Grant's campaigns terminating
in the capture of Vicksburg, which city Logan's division was the first to enter and of which
he was military governor, he rose to the rank of major-general of volunteers; in November 1863
he succeeded Sherman in command of the XV. Army Corps; and after the death of McPherson he
was in command of the Army of the Tennessee at the battle of Atlanta.  When the war closed,
Logan resumed his political career as a Republican, and was a member of the National House
of Representatives from 1867 to 1871, and of the United States Senate from 1871 until 1877
and again from 1879 until his death, which took place at Washington, D.C., on the 26th of December
1886.  In 1868 he was one of the managers in the impeachment of President Johnson.  His war
record and his great personal following, especially in the Grand Army of the Republic, contributed
to his nomination for Vice-President in 1884 on the ticket with James G. Blaine, but he was
not elected. His impetuous oratory was popular on the platform.  He was commander-in-chief
of the Grand Army of the Republic from 1868 to 1871, and in this position successfully urged
the observance of Memorial or Decoration Day, an idea which probably originated with him. 
He was the author of "The Great Conspiracy: Its Origin and History" (1886), an account of the
Civil War, and of "The Volunteer Soldier of America" (1887).  There is a fine statue of him
by St. Gaudens in Chicago.

The best biography is that by George F. Dawson, The Life and Services of Gen. John A.  Logan,
as Soldier and Statesman (Chicago and New York, 1887).

