MY DEAR CHARLES,

It is the fate of sequels to disappoint those who have waited for them; and, my David having
been left to kick his heels for more than a lustre in the British Linen Company's office, must
expect his late reappearance to be greeted with hoots, if not with missiles. Yet, when I remember
the days of our explorations, I am not without hope. There should be left in our native city
some seed of the elect; some long-legged, hot-headed youth must repeat to-day our dreams and
wanderings of so many years ago; he will relish the pleasure, which should have been ours,
to follow among named streets and numbered houses the country walks of David Balfour, to identify
Dean, and Silvermills, and Broughton, and Hope Park and Pilrig, and poor old Lochend--if it
still be standing, and the Figgate Whins--if there be any of them left; or to push (on a long
holiday) so far afield as Gillane or the Bass. So, perhaps, his eye shall be opened to behold
the series of the generations, and he shall weigh with surprise his momentous and nugatory
gift of life.

You are still--as when first I saw, as when I last addressed you--in the venerable city which
I must always think of as my home.

    R.L.S.

    VAILIMA,
        UPOLU,
            SAMOA,
      1902. I MAKE A FAULT IN HONOUR
      VIII. THE BRAVO
        IX. THE HEATHER ON FIRE
         X. THE RED-HEADED MAN
        XI. THE WOOD BY SILVERMILLS
       XII. ON THE MARCH AGAIN WITH ALAN
      XIII. GILLANE SANDS
       XIV. THE BASS
        XV. BLACK ANDIE'S TALE OF TOD LAPRAIK
       XVI. THE MISSING WITNESS
      XVII. THE MEMORIAL
     XVIII. THE TEE'D BALL
       XIX. I AM MUCH IN THE HANDS OF THE LADIES
        XX. I CONTINUE TO MOVE IN GOOD SOCIETY

    Part II

    FATHER AND DAUGHTER

       XXI. THE VOYAGE INTO HOLLAND
      XXII. HELVOETSLUYS
     XXIII. TRAVELS IN HOLLAND
      XXIV. FULL STORY OF A COPY OF HEINECCIUS
       XXV. THE RETURN OF JAMES MORE
      XXVI. THE THREESOME
     XXVII. A TWOSOME
    XXVIII. IN WHICH I AM LEFT ALONE
      XXIX. WE MEET IN DUNKIRK
       XXX. THE LETTER FROM THE SHIP
      XXXI. CONCLUSION

       *       *       *       *       *

PART I

THE LORD ADVOCATE

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER I

A BEGGAR ON HORSEBACK

The 25th day of August, 1751, about two in the afternoon, I, David Balfour, came forth of the
British Linen Company, a porter attending me with a bag of money, and some of the chief of
these merchants bowing me from their doors. Two days before, and even so late as yestermorning,
I was like a beggarman by the wayside, clad in rags, brought down to my last shillings, my
companion a condemned traitor, a price set on my own head for a crime with the news of which
the country rang. To-day I was served heir to my position in life, a landed laird, a bank porter
by me carrying my gold, recommendations in my pocket, and (in the words of the saying) the
ball directly at my foot.

There were two circumstances that served me as ballast to so much sail. The first was the very
difficult and deadly business I had still to handle; the second, the place that I was in. The
tall, black city, and the numbers and movement and noise of so many folk, made a new world
for me, after the moorland braes, the sea-sands, and the still country-sides that I had frequented
up to then. The throng of the citizens in particular abashed me. Rankeillor's son was short
and small in the girth; his clothes scarce held on me; and it was plain I was ill qualified
to strut in the front of a bank-porter. It was plain, if I did so, I should but set folk laughing,
and (what was worse in my case) set them asking questions. So that I behooved to come by some
clothes of my own, and in the meanwhile to walk by the porter's side, and put my hand on his
arm as though we were a pair of friends.

At a merchant's in the Luckenbooths, I had myself fitted out: none too fine, for I had no idea
to appear like a beggar on horseback; but comely and responsible, so that servants should respect
me. Thence to an armourer's, where I got a plain sword, to suit with my degree in life. I felt
safer with the weapon, though (for one so ignorant of defence) it might be called an added
danger. The porter, who was naturally a man of some experience, judged my accoutrement to be
well chosen.

"Naething kenspeckle,"[1] said he, "plain, dacent claes. As for the rapier, nae doubt it sits
wi' your degree; but an I had been you, I would hae waired my siller better-gates than that."
And proposed I should buy winter-hosen from a wife in the Cowgate-back, that was a cousin of
his own, and made them "extraordinar endurable."

But I had other matters on my hand more pressing. Here I was in this old, black city, which
was for all the world like a rabbit-warren, not only by the number of its indwellers, but the
complication of its passages and holes. It was indeed a place where no stranger had a chance
to find a friend, let be another stranger. Suppose him even to hit on the right close, people
dwelt so thronged in these tall houses, he might very well seek a day before he chanced on
the right door. The ordinary course was to hire a lad they called a caddie, who was like a
guide or pilot, led you where you had occasion, and (your errands being done) brought you again
where you were lodging. But these caddies, being always employed in the same sort of services,
and having it for obligation to be well informed of every house and person in the city, had
grown to form a brotherhood of spies; and I knew from tales of Mr. Campbell's how they communicated
one with another, what a rage of curiosity they conceived as to their employer's business,
and how they were like eyes and fingers to the police. It would be a piece of little wisdom,
the way I was now placed, to tack such a ferret to my tails. I had three visits to make, all
immediately needful: to my kinsman Mr. Balfour of Pilrig, to Stewart the Writer that was Appin's
agent, and to William Grant Esquire of Prestongrange, Lord Advocate of Scotland. Mr. Balfour's
was a non-committal visit; and besides (Pilrig being in the country) I made bold to find way
to it myself, with the help of my two legs and a Scots tongue. But the rest were in a different
case. Not only was the visit to Appin's agent, in the midst of the cry about the Appin murder,
dangerous in itself, but it was highly inconsistent with the other. I was like to have a bad
enough time of it with my Lord Advocate Grant, the best of ways; but to go to him hot-foot
from Appin's agent, was little likely to mend my own affairs, and might prove the mere ruin
of friend Alan's. The whole thing, besides, gave me a look of running with the hare and hunting
with the hounds that was little to my fancy. I determined, therefore, to be done at once with
Mr. Stewart and the whole Jacobitical side of my business, and to profit for that purpose by
the guidance of the porter at my side. But it chanced I had scarce given him the address, when
there came a sprinkle of rain--nothing to hurt, only for my new clothes--and we took shelter
under a pend at the head of a close or alley.

Being strange to what I saw, I stepped a little farther in. The narrow paved way descended
swiftly. Prodigious tall houses sprang upon each side and bulged out, one story beyond another,
as they rose. At the top only a ribbon of sky showed in. By what I could spy in the windows,
and by the respectable persons that passed out and in, I saw the houses to be very well occupied;
and the whole appearance of the place interested me like a tale.

I was still gazing, when there came a sudden brisk tramp of feet in time and clash of steel
behind me. Turning quickly, I was aware of a party of armed soldiers, and, in their midst,
a tall man in a great-coat. He walked with a stoop that was like a piece of courtesy, genteel
and insinuating: he waved his hands plausibly as he went, and his face was sly and handsome.
I thought his eye took me in, but could not meet it. This procession went by to a door in the
close, which a serving-man in a fine livery set open; and two of the soldier-lads carried the
prisoner within, the rest lingering with their firelocks by the door.

There can nothing pass in the streets of a city without some following of idle folk and children.
It was so now; but the more part melted away incontinent until but three were left. One was
a girl; she was dressed like a lady, and had a screen of the Drummond colours on her head;
but her comrades or (I should say) followers were ragged gillies, such as I had seen the matches
of by the dozen in my Highland journey. They all spoke together earnestly in Gaelic, the sound
of which was pleasant in my ears for the sake of Alan; and though the rain was by again, and
my porter plucked at me to be going, I even drew nearer where they were, to listen. The lady
scolded sharply, the others making apologies and cringeing before her, so that I made sure
she was come of a chief's house. All the while the three of them sought in their pockets, and
by what I could make out, they had the matter of half a farthing among the party; which made
me smile a little to see all Highland folk alike for fine obeisances and empty sporrans.

It chanced the girl turned suddenly about, so that I saw her face for the first time. She had
wonderful bright eyes like stars, and I daresay the eyes had a part in it; but what I remember
the most clearly was the way her lips were a trifle open as she turned. And whatever was the
cause, I stood there staring like a fool. On her side, as she had not known there was anyone
so near, she looked at me a little longer, and perhaps with more surprise, than was entirely civil.

It went through my country head she might be wondering at my new clothes; with that, I blushed
to my hair, and at the sight of my colouring it's to be supposed she drew her own conclusions,
for she moved her gillies farther down the close, and they fell again to this dispute where
I could hear no more of it.

I had often admired a lassie before then, if scarce so sudden and strong; and it was rather
my disposition to withdraw than to come forward, for I was much in fear of mockery from the
womenkind. You would have thought I had now all the more reason to pursue my common practice,
since I had met this young lady in the city street, seemingly following a prisoner, and accompanied
with two very ragged, indecent-like Highlandmen. But there was here a different ingredient;
it was plain the girl thought I had been prying in her secrets; and with my new clothes and
sword, and at the top of my new fortunes, this was more than I could swallow. The beggar on
horseback could not bear to be thrust down so low, or at the least of it, not by this young lady.

I followed, accordingly, and took off my new hat to her, the best that I was able.

"Madam," said I, "I think it only fair to myself to let you understand I have no Gaelic. It
is true I was listening, for I have friends of my own across the Highland line, and the sound
of that tongue comes friendly; but for your private affairs, if you had spoken Greek, I might
have had more guess at them."

She made me a little, distant curtsey. "There is no harm done," said she, with a pretty accent,
most like the English (but more agreeable). "A cat may look at a king."

"I do not mean to offend," said I. "I have no skill of city manners; I never before this day
set foot inside the doors of Edinburgh. Take me for a country lad--it's what I am; and I would
rather I told you than you found it out."

"Indeed, it will be a very unusual thing for strangers to be speaking to each other on the
causeway," she replied. "But if you are landward[2] bred it will be different. I am as landward
as yourself; I am Highland as you see, and think myself the farther from my home."

"It is not yet a week since I passed the line," said I. "Less than a week ago I was on the
Braes of Balwhidder."

"Balwhither?" she cries; "come ye from Balwhither? The name of it makes all there is of me
rejoice. You will not have been long there, and not known some of our friends or family?"

"I lived with a very honest, kind man called Duncan Dhu Maclaren," I replied.

"Well I know Duncan, and you give him the true name!" she said; "and if he is an honest man,
his wife is honest indeed."

"Ay," said I, "they are fine people, and the place is a bonny place."

"Where in the great world is such another?" she cries; "I am loving the smell of that place
and the roots that grew there."

I was infinitely taken with the spirit of the maid. "I could be wishing I had brought you a
spray of that heather," says I. "And though I did ill to speak with you at the first, now it
seems we have common acquaintance, I make it my petition you will not forget me. David Balfour
is the name I am known by. This is my lucky day when I have just come into a landed estate
and am not very long out of a deadly peril. I wish you would keep my name in mind for the sake
of Balquidder," said I, "and I will yours for the sake of my lucky day."

"My name is not spoken," she replied, with a great deal of haughtiness. "More than a hundred
years it has not gone upon men's tongues, save for a blink. I am nameless like the Folk of
Peace.[3] Catriona Drummond is the one I use."

Now indeed I knew where I was standing. In all broad Scotland there was but the one name proscribed,
and that was the name of the Macgregors. Yet so far from fleeing this undesirable acquaintancy,
I plunged the deeper in.

"I have been sitting with one who was in the same case with yourself," said I, "and I think
he will be one of your friends. They called him Robin Oig."

"Did ye so?" cries she. "Ye met Rob?"

"I passed the night with him," said I.

"He is a fowl of the night," said she.

"There was a set of pipes there," I went on, "so you may judge if the time passed."

"You should be no enemy, at all events," said she. "That was his brother there a moment since,
with the red soldiers round him. It is him that I call father."

"Is it so?" cried I. "Are you a daughter of James More's?"

"All the daughter that he has," says she: "the daughter of a prisoner; that I should forget
it so, even for one hour, to talk with strangers!"

Here one of the gillies addressed her in what he had of English, to know what "she" (meaning
by that himself) was to do about "ta sneeshin." I took some note of him for a short, bandy-legged,
red-haired, big-headed man, that I was to know more of to my cost.

"There can be none the day, Neil," she replied. "How will you get 'sneeshin,' wanting siller?
It will teach you another time to be more careful; and I think James More will not be very
well pleased with Neil of the Tom."

"Miss Drummond," I said, "I told you I was in my lucky day. Here I am, and a bank-porter at
my tail. And remember I have had the hospitality of your own country of Balwhidder."

"It was not one of my people gave it," said she.

"Ah, well," said I, "but I am owing your uncle at least for some springs upon the pipes. Besides
which, I have offered myself to be your friend, and you have been so forgetful that you did
not refuse me in the proper time."

"If it had been a great sum, it might have done you honour," said she. "But I will tell you
what this is. James More lies shackled in prison; but this time past, they will be bringing
him down here daily to the Advocate's..."

"The Advocate's?" I cried. "Is that...?"

"It is the house of the Lord Advocate, Grant of Prestongrange," said she. "There they bring
my father one time and another, for what purpose I have no thought in my mind; but it seems
there is some hope dawned for him. All this same time they will not let me be seeing him, nor
yet him write; and we wait upon the King's street to catch him; and now we give him his snuff
as he goes by, and now something else. And here is this son of trouble, Neil, son of Duncan,
has lost my fourpenny-piece that was to buy that snuff, and James More must go wanting, and
will think his daughter has forgotten him."

I took sixpence from my pocket, gave it to Neil, and bade him go about his errand. Then to
her, "That sixpence came with me by Balwhidder," said I.

"Ah!" she said, "you are a friend to the Gregara!"

"I would not like to deceive you either," said I. "I know very little of the Gregara and less
of James More and his doings; but since the while I have been standing in this close, I seem
to know something of yourself; and if you will just say 'a friend to Miss Catriona' I will
see you are the less cheated."

"The one cannot be without the other," said she.

"I will even try," said I.

"And what will you be thinking of myself?" she cried, "to be holding my hand to the first stranger!"

"I am thinking nothing but that you are a good daughter," said I.

"I must not be without repaying it," she said; "where is it you stop?"

"To tell the truth, I am stopping nowhere yet," said I, "being not full three hours in the
city; but if you will give me your direction, I will be so bold as come seeking my sixpence
for myself."

"Will I can trust you for that?" she asked.

"You have little fear," said I.

"James More could not bear it else," said she. "I stop beyond the village of Dean, on the north
side of the water, with Mrs. Drummond-Ogilvy of Allardyce, who is my near friend and will be
glad to thank you."

"You are to see me then, so soon as what I have to do permits," said I; and the remembrance
of Alan rolling in again upon my mind, I made haste to say farewell.

I could not but think, even as I did so, that we had made extraordinary free upon short acquaintance,
and that a really wise young lady would have shown herself more backward. I think it was the
bank-porter that put me from this ungallant train of thought.

"I thoucht ye had been a lad of some kind o' sense," he began, shooting out his lips. "Ye're
no likely to gang far this gate. A fule and his siller's shune parted. Eh, but ye're a green
callant!" he cried, "an' a veecious, tae! Cleikin' up wi' baubee-joes!"

"If you dare to speak of the young lady ..." I began.

"Leddy!" he cried. "Haud us and safe us, whatten leddy? Ca' thon a leddy? The toun's fu' o'
them. Leddies! Man, it's weel seen ye're no very acquant in Embro'!"

A clap of anger took me.

"Here," said I, "lead me where I told you, and keep your foul mouth shut!"

He did not wholly obey me, for though he no more addressed me directly, he sang at me as he
went in a very impudent manner of innuendo, and with an exceedingly ill voice and ear--

    "As Mally Lee cam doun the street, her capuchin did flee.
    She cuist a look ahint her to see her negligee,
    And we're a' gaun east and wast, we're a' gaun ajee,
    We're a' gaun east and wast courtin' Mally Lee."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER II

THE HIGHLAND WRITER

Mr. Charles Stewart the Writer dwelt at the top of the longest stair that ever mason set a
hand to; fifteen flights of it, no less; and when I had come to his door, and a clerk had opened
it, and told me his master was within, I had scarce breath enough to send my porter packing.

"Awa' east and wast wi' ye!" said I, took the money bag out of his hands, and followed the
clerk in.

The outer room was an office with the clerk's chair at a table spread with law papers. In the
inner chamber, which opened from it, a little brisk man sat poring on a deed, from which he
scarce raised his eyes upon my entrance; indeed, he still kept his finger in the place, as
though prepared to show me out and fall again to his studies. This pleased me little enough;
and what pleased me less, I thought the clerk was in a good posture to overhear what should
pass between us.

I asked if he was Mr. Charles Stewart the Writer.

"The same," says he; "and if the question is equally fair, who may you be yourself?"

"You never heard tell of my name nor of me either," said I, "but I bring you a token from a
friend that you know well. That you know well," I repeated, lowering my voice, "but maybe are
not just so keen to hear from at this present being. And the bits of business that I have to
propone to you are rather in the nature of being confidential. In short, I would like to think
we were quite private."

He rose without more words, casting down his paper like a man ill-pleased, sent forth his clerk
of an errand, and shut to the house-door behind him.

"Now, sir," said he, returning, "speak out your mind and fear nothing; though before you begin,"
he cries out, "I tell you mine misgives me! I tell you beforehand, ye're either a Stewart or
a Stewart sent ye. A good name it is, and one it would ill-become my father's son to lightly.
But I begin to grue at the sound of it."

"My name is called Balfour," said I, "David Balfour of Shaws. As for him that sent me, I will
let his token speak." And I showed the silver button.

"Put it in your pocket, sir!" cries he, "Ye need name no names. The deevil's buckie, I ken
the button of him! And de'il hae't! Where is he now?"

I told him I knew not where Alan was, but he had some sure place (or thought he had) about
the north side, where he was to lie until a ship was found for him; and how and where he had
appointed to be spoken with.

"It's been always my opinion that I would hang in a tow for this family of mine," he cried,
"and, dod! I believe the day's come now! Get a ship for him, quot' he! And who's to pay for
it? The man's daft!"

"That is my part of the affair, Mr. Stewart," said I. "Here is a bag of good money, and if
more be wanted, more is to be had where it came from."

"I needn't ask your politics," said he.

"Ye need not," said I, smiling, "for I'm as big a Whig as grows."

"Stop a bit, stop a bit," says Mr. Stewart. "What's all this? A Whig? Then why are you here
with Alan's button? and what kind of a black-foot traffic is this that I find ye out in, Mr.
Whig? Here is a forfeited rebel and an accused murderer, with two hundred pounds on his life,
and ye ask me to meddle in his business, and then tell me ye're a Whig! I have no mind of any
such Whigs before, though I've kent plenty of them."

"He's a forfeited rebel, the more's the pity," said I, "for the man's my friend." I can only
wish he had been better guided. And an accused murderer, that he is too, for his misfortune;
but wrongfully accused."

"I hear you say so," said Stewart.

"More than you are to hear me say so, before long," said I. "Alan Breck is innocent, and so
is James."

"Oh!" says he, "the two cases hang together. If Alan is out, James can never be in."

Hereupon I told him briefly of my acquaintance with Alan, of the accident that brought me present
at the Appin murder, and the various passages of our escape among the heather, and my recovery
of my estate. "So, sir, you have now the whole train of these events," I went on, "and can
see for yourself how I come to be so much mingled up with the affairs of your family and friends,
which (for all of our sakes) I wish had been plainer and less bloody. You can see for yourself,
too, that I have certain pieces of business depending, which were scarcely fit to lay before
a lawyer chosen at random. No more remains, but to ask if you will undertake my service?"

"I have no great mind to it; but coming as you do with Alan's button, the choice is scarcely
left me," said he. "What are your instructions?" he added, and took up his pen.

"The first point is to smuggle Alan forth of this country," said I, "but I need not be repeating
that."

"I am little likely to forget it," said Stewart.

"The next thing is the bit money I am owing to Cluny," I went on. "It would be ill for me to
find a conveyance, but that should be no stick to you. It was two pounds five shillings and
three-halfpence farthing sterling."

He noted it.

"Then," said I, "there's a Mr. Henderland, a licensed preacher and missionary in Ardgour, that
I would like well to get some snuff into the hands of; and as I daresay you keep touch with
your friends in Appin (so near by), it's a job you could doubtless overtake with the other."

"How much snuff are we to say?" he asked.

"I was thinking of two pounds," said I.

"Two," said he.

"Then there's the lass Alison Hastie, in Limekilns," said I. "Her that helped Alan and me across
the Forth. I was thinking if I could get her a good Sunday gown, such as she could wear with
decency in her degree, it would be an ease to my conscience: for the mere truth is, we owe
her our two lives."

"I am glad to see you are thrifty, Mr. Balfour," says he, making his notes.

"I would think shame to be otherwise the first day of my fortune," said I. "And now, if you
will compute the outlay and your own proper charges, I would be glad to know if I could get
some spending-money back. It's not that I grudge the whole of it to get Alan safe; it's not
that I lack more; but having drawn so much the one day, I think it would have a very ill appearance
if I was back again seeking, the next. Only be sure you have enough," I added, "for I am very
undesirous to meet with you again."

"Well, and I'm pleased to see you're cautious too," said the Writer. "But I think ye take a
risk to lay so considerable a sum at my discretion."

He said this with a plain sneer.

"I'll have to run the hazard," I replied. "O, and there's another service I would ask, and
that's to direct me to a lodging, for I have no roof to my head. But it must be a lodging I
may seem to have hit upon by accident, for it would never do if the Lord Advocate were to get
any jealousy of our acquaintance."

"Ye may set your weary spirit at rest," said he. "I will never name your name, sir; and it's
my belief the Advocate is still so much to be sympathised with that he doesnae ken of your
existence."

I saw I had got to the wrong side of the man.

"There's a braw day coming for him, then," said I, "for he'll have to learn of it on the deaf
side of his head no later than to-morrow, when I call on him."

"When ye call on him!" repeated Mr. Stewart. "Am I daft, or are you? What takes ye near the
Advocate?"

"O, just to give myself up," said I.

"Mr. Balfour," he cried, "are ye making a mock of me?"

"No, sir," said I, "though I think you have allowed yourself some such freedom with myself.
But I give you to understand once and for all that I am in no jesting spirit."

"Nor yet me," says Stewart. "And I give you to understand (if that's to be the word) that I
like the looks of your behaviour less and less. You come here to me with all sorts of propositions,
which will put me in a train of very doubtful acts and bring me among very undesirable persons
this many a day to come. And then you tell me you're going straight out of my office to make
your peace with the Advocate! Alan's button here or Alan's button there, the four quarters
of Alan wouldnae bribe me further in."

"I would take it with a little more temper," said I, "and perhaps we can avoid what you object
to. I can see no way for it but to give myself up, but perhaps you can see another; and if
you could, I could never deny but what I would be rather relieved. For I think my traffic with
his lordship is little likely to agree with my health. There's just the one thing clear, that
I have to give my evidence; for I hope it'll save Alan's character (what's left of it), and
James's neck, which is the more immediate."

He was silent for a breathing-space, and then, "My man," said he, "you'll never be allowed
to give such evidence."

"We'll have to see about that," said I; "I'm stiff-necked when I like."

"Ye muckle ass!" cried Stewart, "it's James they want; James has got to hang--Alan too, if
they could catch him--but James whatever! Go near the Advocate with any such business, and
you'll see! he'll find a way to muzzle ye."

"I think better of the Advocate than that," said I.

"The Advocate be damned!" cries he. "It's the Campbells, man! You'll have the whole clanjamfry
of them on your back; and so will the Advocate too, poor body! It's extraordinar ye cannot
see where ye stand! If there's no fair way to stop your gab, there's a foul one gaping. They
can put ye in the dock, do ye no see that?" he cried, and stabbed me with one finger in the leg.

"Ay," said I, "I was told that same no further back than this morning by another lawyer."

"And who was he?" asked Stewart. "He spoke sense at least."

I told I must be excused from naming him, for he was a decent stout old Whig, and had little
mind to be mixed up in such affairs.

"I think all the world seems to be mixed up in it!" cries Stewart. "But what said you?"

I told him what had passed between Rankeillor and myself before the house of Shaws.

"Well, and so ye will hang!" said he. "Ye'll hang beside James Stewart. There's your fortune told."

"I hope better of it yet than that," said I; "but I could never deny there was a risk."

"Risk!" says he, and then sat silent again. "I ought to thank you for your staunchness to my
friends, to whom you show a very good spirit," he says, "if you have the strength to stand
by it. But I warn you that you're wading deep. I wouldn't put myself in your place (me that's
a Stewart born!) for all the Stewarts that ever there were since Noah. Risk? ay, I take over-many,
but to be tried in court before a Campbell jury and a Campbell judge, and that in a Campbell
country and upon a Campbell quarrel--think what you like of me, Balfour, it's beyond me."

"It's a different way of thinking, I suppose," said I; "I was brought up to this one by my
father before me."

"Glory to his bones! he has left a decent son to his name," says he. "Yet I would not have
you judge me over-sorely. My case is dooms hard. See, sir! ye tell me ye're a Whig: I wonder
what I am. No Whig to be sure; I couldnae be just that. But--laigh in your ear, man--I'm maybe
no very keen on the other side."

"Is that a fact?" cried I. "It's what I would think of a man of your intelligence."

"Hut! none of your whillywhas!"[4] cries he. "There's intelligence upon both sides. But for
my private part I have no particular desire to harm King George; and as for King James, God
bless him! he does very well for me across the water. I'm a lawyer, ye see: fond of my books
and my bottle, a good plea, a well-drawn deed, a crack in the Parliament House with other lawyer
bodies, and perhaps a turn at the golf on a Saturday at e'en. Where do ye come in with your
Hieland plaids and claymores?"

"Well," said I, "it's a fact ye have little of the wild Highlandman."

"Little?" quoth he. "Nothing, man! And yet I'm Hieland born, and when the clan pipes, who but
me has to dance? The clan and the name, that goes by all. It's just what you said yourself;
my father learned it to me, and a bonny trade I have of it. Treason and traitors, and the smuggling
of them out and in; and the French recruiting, weary fall it! and the smuggling through of
the recruits; and their pleas--a sorrow of their pleas! Here haye I been moving one for young
Ardshiel, my cousin; claimed the estate under the marriage contract--a forfeited estate! I
told them it was nonsense: muckle they cared! And there was I cocking behind a yadvocate that
liked the business as little as myself, for it was fair ruin to the pair of us--a black mark,
disaffected, branded on our hurdies, like folk's names upon their kye! And what can I do? I'm
a Stewart, ye see, and must fend for my clan and family. Then no later by than yesterday there
was one of our Stewart lads carried to the Castle. What for? I ken fine: Act of 1736: recruiting
for King Lewie. And you'll see, he'll whistle me in to be his lawyer, and there'll be another
black mark on my chara'ter! I tell you fair: if I but kent the heid of a Hebrew word from the
hurdies of it be dammed but I would fling the whole thing up and turn minister!"

"It's rather a hard position," said I.

"Dooms hard!" cries he. "And that's what makes me think so much of ye--you that's no Stewart--to
stick your head so deep in Stewart business. And for what, I do not know; unless it was the
sense of duty."

"I hope it will be that," said I.

"Well," says he, "it's a grand quality. But here is my clerk back; and, by your leave, we'll
pick a bit of dinner, all the three of us. When that's done, I'll give you the direction of
a very decent man, that'll be very fain to have you for a lodger. And I'll fill your pockets
to ye, forbye, out of your ain bag. For this business'll not be near as dear as ye suppose--not
even the ship part of it."

I made him a sign that his clerk was within hearing.

"Hoot, ye neednae mind for Robbie," cries he. "A Stewart too, puir deevil! and has smuggled
out more French recruits and trafficking Papists than what he has hairs upon his face. Why,
it's Robin that manages that branch of my affairs. Who will we have now, Rob, for across the
water?"

"There'll be Andie Scougal, in the Thristle," replied Rob. "I saw Hoseason the other day, but
it seems he's wanting the ship. Then there'll be Tarn Stobo; but I'm none so sure of Tam. I've
seen him colloguing with some gey queer acquaintances; and if it was anybody important, I would
give Tam the go-by."

"The head's worth two hundred pounds, Robin," said Stewart.

"Gosh, that'll no be Alan Breck?" cried the clerk.

"Just Alan," said his master.

"Weary winds! that's sayrious," cried Robin. "I'll try Andie then; Andie'll be the best."

"It seems it's quite a big business," I observed.

"Mr. Balfour, there's no end to it," said Stewart.

"There was a name your clerk mentioned," I went on: "Hoseason. That must be my man, I think:
Hoseason, of the brig Covenant. Would you set your trust on him?"

"He didnae behave very well to you and Alan," said Mr. Stewart; "but my mind of the man in
general is rather otherwise. If he had taken Alan on board his ship on an agreement, it's my
notion he would have proved a just dealer. How say ye, Rob?"

"No more honest skipper in the trade than Eli," said the clerk. "I would lippen to[5] Eli's
word--ay, if it was the Chevalier, or Appin himsel'," he added.

"And it was him that brought the doctor, wasnae't?" asked the master.

"He was the very man," said the clerk.

"And I think he took the doctor back?" says Stewart.

"Ay, with his sporran full!" cried Robin. "And Eli kent of that!"[6]

"Well, it seems it's hard to ken folk rightly," said I.

"That was just what I forgot when ye came in, Mr. Balfour!" says the Writer.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER III

I GO TO PILRIG

The next morning, I was no sooner awake in my new lodging than I was up and into my new clothes;
and no sooner the breakfast swallowed, than I was forth on my adventures. Alan, I could hope,
was fended for; James was like to be a more difficult affair, and I could not but think that
enterprise might cost me dear, even as everybody said to whom I had opened my opinion. It seemed
I was come to the top of the mountain only to cast myself down; that I had clambered up, through
so many and hard trials, to be rich, to be recognised, to wear city clothes and a sword to
my side, all to commit mere suicide at the last end of it, and the worst kind of suicide besides,
which is to get hanged at the King's charges.

What was I doing it for? I asked, as I went down the High Street and out north by Leith Wynd.
First I said it was to save James Stewart, and no doubt the memory of his distress, and his
wife's cries, and a word or so I had let drop on that occasion worked upon me strongly. At
the same time I reflected that it was (or ought to be) the most indifferent matter to my father's
son, whether James died in his bed or from a scaffold. He was Alan's cousin, to be sure; but
so far as regarded Alan, the best thing would be to lie low, and let the King, and his Grace
of Argyll, and the corbie crows, pick the bones of his kinsman their own way. Nor could I forget
that, while we were all in the pot together, James had shown no such particular anxiety whether
for Alan or me.

Next it came upon me I was acting for the sake of justice: and I thought that a fine word,
and reasoned it out that (since we dwelt in polities, at some discomfort to each one of us)
the main thing of all must still be justice, and the death of any innocent man a wound upon
the whole community. Next, again, it was the Accuser of the Brethren that gave me a turn of
his argument; bid me think shame for pretending myself concerned in these high matters, and
told me I was but a prating vain child, who had spoken big words to Rankeillor and to Stewart,
and held myself bound upon my vanity to make good that boastfulness. Nay, and he hit me with
the other end of the stick; for he accused me of a kind of artful cowardice, going about at
the expense of a little risk to purchase greater safety. No doubt, until I had declared and
cleared myself, I might any day encounter Mungo Campbell or the sheriff's officer, and be recognised,
and dragged into the Appin murder by the heels; and, no doubt, in case I could manage my declaration
with success, I should breathe more free for ever after. But when I looked this argument full
in the face I could see nothing to be ashamed of. As for the rest, "Here are the two roads,"
I thought, "and both go to the same place. It's unjust that James should hang if I can save
him; and it would be ridiculous in me to have talked so much and then do nothing. It's lucky
for James of the Glens that I have boasted beforehand; and none so unlucky for myself, because
now I'm committed to do right. I have the name of a gentleman and the means of one; it would
be a poor discovery that I was wanting in the essence." And then I thought this was a Pagan
spirit, and said a prayer in to myself, asking for what courage I might lack, and that I might
go straight to my duty like a soldier to battle, and come off again scatheless as so many do.

This train of reasoning brought me to a more resolved complexion; though it was far from closing
up my sense of the dangers that surrounded me, nor of how very apt I was (if I went on) to
stumble on the ladder of the gallows. It was a plain, fair morning, but the wind in the east.
The little chill of it sang in my blood, and gave me a feeling of the autumn, and the dead
leaves, and dead folks' bodies in their graves. It seemed the devil was in it, if I was to
die in that tide of my fortunes and for other folks' affairs. On the top of the Calton Hill,
though it was not the customary time of year for that diversion, some children were crying
and running with their kites. These toys appeared very plain against the sky; I remarked a
great one soar on the wind to a high altitude and then plump among the whins; and I thought
to myself at sight of it, "There goes Davie."

My way lay over Mouter's Hill, and through an end of a clachan on the braeside among fields.
There was a whirr of looms in it went from house to house; bees bummed in the gardens; the
neighbours that I saw at the doorsteps talked in a strange tongue; and I found out later that
this was Picardy, a village where the French weavers wrought for the Linen Company. Here I
got a fresh direction for Pilrig, my destination; and a little beyond, on the wayside, came
by a gibbet and two men hanged in chains. They were dipped in tar, as the manner is; the wind
span them, the chains clattered, and the birds hung about the uncanny jumping-jacks and cried.
The sight coming on me suddenly, like an illustration of my fears, I could scarce be done with
examining it and drinking in discomfort. And as I thus turned and turned about the gibbet,
what should I strike on, but a weird old wife, that sat behind a leg of it, and nodded, and
talked aloud to herself with becks and courtesies.

"Who are these two, mother?" I asked, and pointed to the corpses.

"A blessing on your precious face!" she cried. "Twa joes[7] o' mine: just twa o' my old joes,
my hinny dear."

"What did they suffer for?" I asked.

"Ou, just for the guid cause," said she. "Aften I spaed to them the way that it would end.
Twa shillin' Scots; no pickle mair; and there are twa bonny callants hingin' for 't! They took
it frae a wean[8] belanged to Brouchton."

"Ay!" said I to myself, and not to the daft limmer, "and did they come to such a figure for
so poor a business? This is to lose all indeed."

"Gie's your loof,[9] hinny," says she, "and let me spae your weird to ye."

"No, mother," said I, "I see far enough the way I am. It's an unco thing to see too far in front."

"I read it in your bree," she said. "There's a bonnie lassie that has bricht een, and there's
a wee man in a braw coat, and a big man in a pouthered wig, and there's the shadow of the wuddy,[10]
joe, that lies braid across your path. Gie's your loof, hinny, and let Auld Merren spae it
to ye bonny."

The two chance shots that seemed to point at Alan and the daughter of James More, struck me
hard; and I fled from the eldritch creature, casting her a baubee, which she continued to sit
and play with under the moving shadows of the hanged.

My way down the causeway of Leith Walk would have been more pleasant to me but for this encounter.
The old rampart ran among fields, the like of them I had never seen for artfulness of agriculture;
I was pleased, besides, to be so far in the still countryside; but the shackles of the gibbet
clattered in my head; and the mops and mows of the old witch, and the thought of the dead men,
hag-rode my spirits. To hang on a gallows, that seemed a hard case; and whether a man came
to hang there for two shillings Scots, or (as Mr. Stewart had it) from the sense of duty, once
he was tarred and shackled and hung up, the difference seemed small. There might David Balfour
hang, and other lads pass on their errands and think light of him; and old daft limmers sit
at leg-foot and spae their fortunes; and the clean genty maids go by, and look to the other
side, and hold a nose. I saw them plain, and they had grey eyes, and their screens upon their
heads were of the Drummond colours.

I was thus in the poorest of spirits, though still pretty resolved, when I came in view of
Pilrig, a pleasant gabled house set by the walkside among some brave young woods. The laird's
horse was standing saddled at the door as I came up, but himself was in the study, where he
received me in the midst of learned works and musical instruments, for he was not only a deep
philosopher but much of a musician. He greeted me at first pretty well, and when he had read
Rankeillor's letter, placed himself obligingly at my disposal.

"And what is it, cousin David?" says he--"since it appears that we are cousins--what is this
that I can do for you? A word to Prestongrange? Doubtless that is easily given. But what should
be the word?"

"Mr. Balfour," said I, "if I were to tell you my whole story the way it fell out, it's my opinion
(and it was Rankeillor's before me) that you would be very little made up with it."

"I am sorry to hear this of you, kinsman," says he.

"I must not take that at your hands, Mr. Balfour," said I; "I have nothing to my charge to
make me sorry, or you for me, but just the common infirmities of mankind. 'The guilt of Adam's
first sin, the want of original righteousness, and the corruption of my whole nature,' so much
I must answer for, and I hope I have been taught where to look for help," I said; for I judged
from the look of the man he would think the better of me if I knew my questions.[11] "But in
the way of worldly honour I have no great stumble to reproach myself with; and my difficulties
have befallen me very much against my will and (by all that I can see) without my fault. My
trouble is to have become dipped in a political complication, which it is judged you would
be blythe to avoid a knowledge of."

"Why, very well, Mr. David," he replied, "I am pleased to see you are all that Rankeillor represented.
And for what you say of political complications, you do me no more than justice. It is my study
to be beyond suspicion, and indeed outside the field of it. The question is," says he, "how,
if I am to know nothing of the matter, I can very well assist you?"

"Why, sir," said I, "I propose you should write to his lordship, that I am a young man of reasonable
good family and of good means: both of which I believe to be the case."

"I have Rankeillor's word for it," said Mr. Balfour, "and I count that a warrandice against
all deadly."

"To which you might add (if you will take my word for so much) that I am a good churchman,
loyal to King George, and so brought up," I went on.

"None of which will do you any harm," said Mr. Balfour.

"Then you might go on to say that I sought his lordship on a matter of great moment, connected
with His Majesty's service and the administration of justice," I suggested.

"As I am not to hear the matter," says the laird, "I will not take upon myself to qualify its
weight. 'Great moment' therefore falls, and 'moment' along with it. For the rest, I might express
myself much as you propose."

"And then, sir," said I, and rubbed my neck a little with my thumb, "then I would be very desirous
if you could slip in a word that might perhaps tell for my protection."

"Protection?" says he. "For your protection? Here is a phrase that somewhat dampens me. If
the matter be so dangerous, I own I would be a little loath to move in it blindfold."

"I believe I could indicate in two words where the thing sticks," said I.

"Perhaps that would be the best," said he.

"Well, it's the Appin murder," said I.

He held up both the hands. "Sirs! sirs!" cried he.

I thought by the expression of his face and voice that I had lost my helper.

"Let me explain ..." I began.

"I thank you kindly, I will hear no more of it," says he. "I decline in toto to hear more of
it. For your name's sake and Rankeillor's, and perhaps a little for your own, I will do what
I can to help you; but I will hear no more upon the facts. And it is my first clear duty to
warn you. These are deep waters, Mr. David, and you are a young man. Be cautious and think twice."

"It is to be supposed I will have thought oftener than that, Mr. Balfour," said I, "and I will
direct your attention again to Rankeillor's letter, where (I hope and believe) he has registered
his approval of that which I design."

"Well, well," said he; and then again, "Well, well! I will do what I can for you." Therewith
he took a pen and paper, sat awhile in thought, and began to write with much consideration.
"I understand that Rankeillor approves of what you have in mind?" he asked presently.

"After some discussion, sir, he bade me to go forward in God's name," said I.

"That is the name to go in," said Mr. Balfour, and resumed his writing. Presently, he signed,
re-read what he had written, and addressed me again. "Now here, Mr. David," said he, "is a
letter of introduction, which I will seal without closing, and give into your hands open, as
the form requires. But since I am acting in the dark, I will just read it to you, so that you
may see if it will secure your end--

     "PILRIG, August 26th, 1751.

     "MY LORD,--This is to bring to your notice my namesake and
     cousin, David Balfour Esquire of Shaws, a young gentleman
     of unblemished descent and good estate. He has enjoyed besides
     the more valuable advantages of a godly training, and his
     political
     principles are all that your lordship can desire. I am not in
     Mr. Balfour's confidence, but I understand him to have a
     matter
     to declare, touching His Majesty's service and the
     administration
     of justice: purposes for which your lordship's zeal is known.
     I should add that the young gentleman's intention is known to
     and approved by some of his friends, who will watch with
     hopeful
     anxiety the event of his success or failure.'

"Whereupon," continued Mr. Balfour, "I have subscribed myself with the usual compliments. You
observe I have said 'some of your friends;' I hope you can justify my plural?"

"Perfectly, sir; my purpose is known and approved by more than one," said I. "And your letter,
which I take a pleasure to thank you for, is all I could have hoped."

"It was all I could squeeze out," said he; "and from what I know of the matter you design to
meddle in, I can only pray God that it may prove sufficient."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER IV

LORD ADVOCATE PRESTONGRANGE

My kinsman kept me to a meal, "for the honour of the roof," he said; and I believe I made the
better speed on my return. I had no thought but to be done with the next stage, and have myself
fully committed; to a person circumstanced as I was, the appearance of closing a door on hesitation
and temptation was itself extremely tempting; and I was the more disappointed, when I came
to Prestongrange's house, to be informed he was abroad. I believe it was true at the moment,
and for some hours after; and then I have no doubt the Advocate came home again, and enjoyed
himself in a neighbouring chamber among friends, while perhaps the very fact of my arrival
was forgotten. I would have gone away a dozen times, only for this strong drawing to have done
with my declaration out of hand and be able to lay me down to sleep with a free conscience.
At first I read, for the little cabinet where I was left contained a variety of books. But
I fear I read with little profit; and the weather falling cloudy, the dusk coming up earlier
than usual, and my cabinet being lighted with but a loophole of a window, I was at last obliged
to desist from this diversion (such as it was), and pass the rest of my time of waiting in
a very burthensome vacuity. The sound of people talking in a naer chamber, the pleasant note
of a harpsichord, and once the voice of a lady singing, bore me a kind of company.

I do not know the hour, but the darkness was long come, when the door of the cabinet opened,
and I was aware, by the light behind him, of a tall figure of a man upon the threshold. I rose
at once.

"Is anybody there?" he asked. "Who is that?"

"I am bearer of a letter from the laird of Pilrig to the Lord Advocate," said I.

"Have you been here long?" he asked.

"I would not like to hazard an estimate of how many hours," said I.

"It is the first I hear of it," he replied, with a chuckle. "The lads must have forgotten you.
But you are in the bit at last, for I am Prestongrange."

So saying, he passed before me into the next room, whither (upon his sign) I followed him,
and where he lit a candle and took his place before a business-table. It was a long room, of
a good proportion, wholly lined with books. That small spark of light in a corner struck out
the man's handsome person and strong face. He was flushed, his eye watered and sparkled, and
before he sat down I observed him to sway back and forth. No doubt he had been supping liberally;
but his mind and tongue were under full control.

"Well, sir, sit ye down," said he, "and let us see Pilrig's letter."

He glanced it through in the beginning carelessly, looking up and bowing when he came to my
name; but at the last words I thought I observed his attention to redouble, and I made sure
he read them twice. All this while you are to suppose my heart was beating, for I had now crossed
my Rubicon and was come fairly on the field of battle.

"I am pleased to make your acquaintance, Mr. Balfour," he said, when he had done. "Let me offer
you a glass of claret."

"Under your favour, my lord, I think it would scarce be fair on me," said I. "I have come here,
as the letter will have mentioned, on a business of some gravity to myself; and as I am little
used with wine, I might be the sooner affected."

"You shall be the judge," said he. "But if you will permit, I believe I will even have the
bottle in myself."

He touched a bell, and the footman came, as at a signal, bringing wine and glasses.

"You are sure you will not join me?" asked the Advocate. "Well, here is to our better acquaintance!
In what way can I serve you?"

"I should perhaps begin by telling you, my lord, that I am here at your own pressing invitation,"
said I.

"You have the advantage of me somewhere," said he, "for I profess I think I never heard of
you before this evening."

"Right, my lord; the name is indeed new to you," said I. "And yet you have been for some time
extremely wishful to make my acquaintance, and have declared the same in public."

"I wish you would afford me a clue," says he. "I am no Daniel."

"It will perhaps serve for such," said I, "that if I was in a jesting humour--which is far
from the case--I believe I might lay a claim on your lordship for two hundred pounds."

"In what sense?" he inquired.

"In the sense of rewards offered for my person," said I.

He thrust away his glass once and for all, and sat straight up in the chair where he had been
previously lolling. "What am I to understand?" said he.

"A tall strong lad of about eighteen," I quoted, "speaks like a Lowlander, and has no beard."

"I recognise those words," said he, "which, if you have come here with any ill-judged intention
of amusing yourself, are like to prove extremely prejudicial to your safety."

"My purpose in this," I replied, "is just entirely as serious as life and death, and you have
understood me perfectly. I am the boy who was speaking with Glenure when he was shot."

"I can only suppose (seeing you here) that you claim to be innocent," said he.

"The inference is clear," I said. "I am a very loyal subject to King George, but if I had anything
to reproach myself with, I would have had more discretion than to walk into your den."

"I am glad of that," said he. "This horrid crime, Mr. Balfour, is of a dye which cannot permit
any clemency. Blood has been barbarously shed. It has been shed in direct opposition to his
Majesty and our whole frame of laws, by those who are their known and public oppugnants. I
take a very high sense of this. I will not deny that I consider the crime as directly personal
to his Majesty."

"And unfortunately, my lord," I added a little drily, "directly personal to another great personage
who may be nameless."

"If you mean anything by those words, I must tell you I consider them unfit for a good subject;
and were they spoke publicly I should make it my business to take note of them," said he. "You
do not appear to me to recognise the gravity of your situation, or you would be more careful
not to pejorate the same by words which glance upon the purity of justice. Justice, in this
country, and in my poor hands, is no respecter of persons."

"You give me too great a share in my own speech, my lord," said I. "I did but repeat the common
talk of the country, which I have heard everywhere, and from men of all opinions as I came along."

"When you are come to more discretion you will understand such talk is not to be listened to,
how much less repeated," says the Advocate. "But I acquit you of an ill intention. That nobleman,
whom we all honour and who has indeed been wounded in a near place by the late barbarity, sits
too high to be reached by these aspersions. The Duke of Argyle--you see that I deal plainly
with you--takes it to heart as I do, and as we are both bound to do by our judicial functions
and the service of his Majesty; and I could wish that all hands, in this ill age, were equally
clean of family rancour. But from the accident that this is a Campbell who has fallen martyr
to his duty--as who else but the Campbells have ever put themselves foremost on that path?
I may say it, who am no Campbell--and that the chief of that great house happens (for all our
advantages) to be the present head of the College of Justice, small minds and disaffected tongues
are set agog in every changehouse in the country; and I find a young gentleman like Mr. Balfour
so ill-advised as to make himself their echo." So much he spoke with a very oratorical delivery,
as if in court, and then declined again upon the manner of a gentleman. "All this apart," said
he. "It now remains that I should learn what I am to do with you."

"I had thought it was rather I that should learn the same from your lordship," said I.

"Ay, true," says the Advocate. "But, you see, you come to me well recommended. There is a good
honest Whig name to this letter," says he, picking it up a moment from the table. "And--extra-judicially,
Mr. Balfour--there is always the possibility of some arrangement. I tell you, and I tell you
beforehand that you may be the more upon your guard, your fate lies with me singly. In such
a matter (be it said with reverence) I am more powerful than the king's Majesty; and should
you please me--and of course satisfy my conscience--in what remains to be held of our interview,
I tell you it may remain between ourselves."

"Meaning how?" I asked.

"Why, I mean it thus, Mr. Balfour," said he, "that if you give satisfaction, no soul need know
so much as that you visited my house; and you may observe that I do not even call my clerk."

I saw what way he was driving. "I suppose it is needless anyone should be informed upon my
visit," said I, "though the precise nature of my gains by that I cannot see. I am not at all
ashamed of coming here."

"And have no cause to be," says he, encouragingly. "Nor yet (if you are careful) to fear the
consequences."

"My lord," said I, "speaking under your correction, I am not very easy to be frightened."

"And I am sure I do not seek to frighten you," says he. "But to the interrogation; and let
me warn you to volunteer nothing beyond the questions I shall ask you. It may consist very
immediately with your safety. I have a great discretion, it is true, but there are bounds to it."

"I shall try to follow your lordship's advice," said I.

He spread a sheet of paper on the table and wrote a heading. "It appears you were present,
by the way, in the wood of Lettermore at the moment of the fatal shot," he began. "Was this
by accident?"

"By accident," said I.

"How came you in speech with Colin Campbell?" he asked.

"I was inquiring my way of him to Aucharn," I replied.

I observed he did not write this answer down.

"H'm, true," said he, "I had forgotten that. And do you know, Mr. Balfour, I would dwell, if
I were you, as little as might be on your relations with these Stewarts? It might be found
to complicate our business. I am not yet inclined to regard these matters as essential."

"I had thought, my lord, that all points of fact were equally material in such a case," said I.

"You forget we are now trying these Stewarts," he replied, with great significance. "If we
should ever come to be trying you, it will be very different; and I shall press these very
questions that I am now willing to glide upon. But to resume: I have it here in Mr. Mungo Campbell's
precognition that you ran immediately up the brae. How came that?"

"Not immediately, my lord, and the cause was my seeing of the murderer."

"You saw him, then?"

"As plain as I see your lordship, though not so near hand."

"You know him?"

"I should know him again."

"In your pursuit you were not so fortunate, then, as to overtake him?"

"I was not."

"Was he alone?"

"He was alone."

"There was no one else in that neighbourhood?"

"Alan Breck Stewart was not far off, in a piece of a wood."

The Advocate laid his pen down. "I think we are playing at cross purposes," said he, "which
you will find to prove a very ill amusement for yourself."

"I content myself with following your lordship's advice, and answering what I am asked," said I.

"Be so wise as to bethink yourself in time," said he. = (2) The Broadening of the Divorce Laws= The subject of divorce was
very fully discussed in the Houses of Parliament in England, in New
Zealand, and elsewhere after the First World War.

If parents are unable to live happy lives together or to become reconciled
after differences have arisen, the interests of the children may
be improved, or may be worsened, by a legal separation or a divorce.

Tension in the home may be just as big a factor in the causation of delinquency
as a divorce or separation of the spouses. Juvenile delinquency in
all its forms is frequently associated with homes where the marriage
is broken either by a divorce, separation, or discord.

It is not so much the separation as the tension which precedes and succeeds it that results in
children getting out of control.

The matter is noted here solely because, if parents cannot agree together, they are less likely
to discharge their duties to their children. Greater is the responsibility which rests upon them in
these unhappy circumstances.

If parents are unwilling to shoulder the extra burden caused by the break-down of their marriage,
some action by the State may be required if it seems likely that children may suffer.= (3) Pre-marital
Relations= One aspect of the moral drift is the number of people
who entertain the nebulous idea that it is somehow not wrong to have
pre-marital relations or to live together as man and wife without
marriage.

Such a view is opposed to all the ideas of chastity which are inherent in our morality. Apart from
that, an irregular sex relationship may be psychologically [6] disadvantageous.

However much adults may desire a good moral standard to be observed
by children and adolescents, they have no right to expect it unless
they conform to proper moral standards themselves.= (4) "Self-expression"
in Children= Early in this century psychologists said that the repressive
influences of early discipline were stultifying to the development
of the child.

They advocated that the child's personality would mature better if uninhibited. This has been
interpreted by many people to mean that you should not use corrective measures in the upbringing
of children and that their natural impulses must not be suppressed.

Some of these people have even thought it wrong to say "No" to a child.
People brought up in this way have now become parents.

It is difficult for them to adopt an attitude to their children which
does not go to extremes either way.

As a revolt against their own upbringing, they are either too firm in their control or too lax.
Children brought up in both of these ways have been featured in the
case notes of delinquent children placed before the Committee.= (5)
Materialistic Concepts in Society= Education, medical and hospital
treatment, industrial insurance, sickness and age benefits, and other
things are all provided by the State, when the need arises, without
direct charge upon the individual.

The
virtues of thrift and self-denial have been disappearing.

Incentive does not have the place in our economy which it used to have. The tendency has been to
turn to the State for the supply of all material needs. By encouraging parents to rely upon the
State their sense of responsibility for the upbringing of their children
has been diminished.

The adolescent of today has been born into a world where things temporal, such as money values
and costs, are discussed much more than spiritual things. The weekly "child's allowance" is regarded
by some children as their own perquisite from the benevolent Government.

The dangers inherent in this materialistic view is that many young
people who could profit from further education do not feel a sufficient
inducement to continue study.

They leave school too soon, and the broadening influences which could come from further education
in the daytime, or the evenings, is lost to them. In the result, these young people, having too
much interest in material things, and not enough in the things of the mind and the spirit,
become a potential source of trouble in the community.

One suggestion made to the Committee was that saving and thrift should
be encouraged, or that this might be enforced through the Children's
Court in cases where it is found that offenders have fallen into criminal
immorality through having more money than suffices to pay the reasonable
necessaries of life.

While the powers of the Children's Court might be extended or used for this
purpose in extreme cases where adolescents are brought before the
Court, the best help can come from wise action by parents to prevent
their powers of direction and control being undermined through young
persons having too much freedom and too many of the material things
which are not necessary for their well-being.

XV. The Law and Morality= (1) History of the Law Regarding Morality= At no time in the history
of the British Commonwealth have Parliaments or the law-courts endeavoured to impose a system
or code of morality on the people.

Men are not required by the governing powers to observe the moral law, any more than they are
required to attend Divine worship. But Parliament, in the shaping of legislation, and the Judges
in the administration of justice, have frequently had regard to that indefinable sense of right
and wrong which becomes implanted in the human breast. Furthermore, the law, while not coercing
any one into following a particular course of moral conduct, has,
nevertheless, always been careful to restrain people from acting in
such a way as may cause offence to those who do observe the principles
of religion or of morality.

Offences against religion (for example, blasphemy and disturbing public worship), and offences
against decency and morality (for example, indecent exposure, indecent publications, and prostitution)
are strongly reprehended. In determining what conduct on the part of an individual should be condemned
the law has always endeavoured to maintain a balance between freedom of the individual and
the rights of the community not to be harmed by the exercise of that freedom. The law is not interested
in sin, or even immorality, but it is vitally interested in the effects
of them.

A person may stay away from church, but he must not scoff at the Holy Scriptures. He may bathe
in the nude, but not at a public beach or near where persons are passing. A human model may be
posed for an artist, but must not be exhibited in a shop window. One other feature of the law regarding
morals is that there are some things which adults are not restrained from doing but which the
law will not suffer to be done by minors. Common examples are found in the restraints which
are imposed on children smoking, or entering upon premises open for "drinking"
or betting. Similarly, through reason and experience, the law has
found it necessary to set some limits on the right of an individual
to do what he likes with his own person.

The community has an interest in the life of every citizen.

More particularly may this be said to be so when the State spends
much money on the education and health of the people.

Suicide has always been wrongful; attempts at suicide are therefore punishable, partly because the State
has an interest in maintaining human life, and partly because suicide is a result of sin and a breach
of morality.= (2) Protection of Women and Girls from Defilement= At
common law the woman was always regarded as the mistress of her own
person.

Consent was therefore a defence to a charge of rape. The Legislature subsequently interfered for
the good of society and in the interests of morality by legislating against abortion, against soliciting
for the purpose of prostitution, against the keeping of brothels, and against procuration for the
purpose of carnal knowledge. The next development of consequence in the law on this matter was in
the Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1885 (England).

This statute,
which was subsequently followed in New Zealand, made it a criminal offence to have carnal knowledge
of girls. The penalties were graded according to the ages of the girls involved. As an indication
of the seriousness with which the law, by successive stages, has
regarded sexual offences it is convenient here to summarize the penalties
set out in sections 212 et seq. of the Crimes Act (N. Z.).

Rape Imprisonment for life. Attempted rape Imprisonment for 10 years.
Carnal knowledge of girl under 10 Imprisonment for life. Carnal knowledge
of girl 10 to 11 years Imprisonment for 10 years. Attempted carnal
knowledge of girl under 12 years Imprisonment for 7 years.

Carnal knowledge of girl 12 to 16 years Imprisonment for 5 years. Indecent
assault on female Imprisonment for 7 years.

The above are the maximum penalties. The modern tendency is to inflict
much lesser punishment upon an offender, to grade the punishment
having regard to such matters as the damage done, the past history
of the offender, and the prospect of reform.= (3) Consent as a Defence=
The consent of a girl under 12 years of age cannot be raised as a
defence to any defilement charge.

But where the girl is over 12 and under 16 her consent may be raised as a defence if: (a) The
girl is older than or of the same age as the person charged; or (b)
It is made to appear to the jury that the accused is under the age
of 21 and had reasonable cause to believe that the girl was of or
over the age of 16 years.

The law on this point is not uniform throughout the Commonwealth. In Victoria the defence of
consent is available only when the girl is older than, or of the same age as, the accused (vide Crimes
Act 1928, Vict. 3664, sec. 45). The Committee has been officially
informed that this law (most rigid when compared with the defence
of consent available in this Dominion) has been working well since
it was first enacted about fifty years ago.

In England the defence of consent is available to any accused under the age of 23 years, but
only on the first occasion on which he is charged with the offence.

In an English case, R. v. Banks, (1916) 2 K. B. 621, this defence of consent was raised by a man
who said that he had no idea that the girl was under the age of 16 and
that he did not think about her age at all, but that she had the
appearance of a girl of 16.

The Court of Criminal Appeal held that he was properly convicted. On
the other hand, the Court of Appeal in New Zealand in R. v. Perry and
Pledger, (1920) N. Z. L. R. 21 (despite the argument of the Solicitor-General
to the contrary), decided that, if in the eyes of the jury the girl
might well be taken by an ordinary person to be of the age of 16,
that would be evidence (not necessarily proof) of a reasonable cause
for the belief that she was of that age.

Hence it comes about that under our law it is not necessary for an
accused person to go into the witness box or to call any evidence
to show that the girl appeared to him to be over the age of consent.

The nature of her clothing, red on her lips, the fact that she is
said to smoke and drink, and evidence on other similar matters, enable
a verdict of acquittal to be given.= (4) Weaknesses in the Law= (a)
Operation of the Rule Regarding Age of Consent The readiness of juries
to acquit in cases of carnal knowledge of, or indecent assault upon,
girls may be due to several facts, of which the following may be mentioned:
(i) The failure of the law to make it an offence for a sophisticated
girl to entice a male into carnal knowledge of her.

       (ii) The modern practice of not publishing the names of the girls
involved.

(iii) The fact that the defence of consent is available to persons
under 21 years of age is a factor making it more difficult to obtain
a conviction when the person charged is over 21 years. (b) Girls Not
Liable for Permitting Indecency or Carnal Knowledge The law has always
been chivalrous to females.

It is not an offence for them to allow to be done to themselves things which, when they are done, render
the other party liable to heavy terms of imprisonment. There is also a practical reason why the State
has not legislated against females on this point, viz., the anticipated difficulty of obtaining
convictions if the female, when called as a witness, is able to plead
that she should not be required to testify lest by doing so she might
incriminate herself.

This practical objection, however, would lose all force, both as regards cases where the accused
are under 21 years and those in which they are over 21 years, if
the proposed offence by females were restricted to girls under 16
and thus triable in the Children's Court, and not by indictment.

The judicial process in the Children's Court is, or can be, such a speedy process that the Crown would
not be hampered in making its charge against the male in the ordinary Criminal Court by the
possibility that the case would fail if the girl pleaded that she should not be required to
answer questions. (c) Girls Not Liable for "Indecent Assault" on Boys It should also be made
an offence punishable in the Children's Court for any girl to indecently
assault a male.

Under section 208 of the Crimes Act every person, male or female
(including a boy under 14 years of age), may be convicted and sentenced
to seven years imprisonment for an indecent assault on a female.

Under section 154 a male may be sentenced to ten years imprisonment
for an indecent assault on a male (consent is not a a defence); but
a female cannot be convicted of "indecent assault" on a male if he
permitted the act.

This anomaly may have arisen because, in ancient times and, later,
when the criminal law was set out in statutory form, it was not considered
likely that females would descend to conduct which would entice males
into the commission of one of these offences.

Having regard to the evidence before the Committee that many boys
have been tempted and encouraged into sexual crime by the indecent
conduct of girls themselves, in picture theatres and elsewhere, the
time has arrived when boys should be protected by letting the girls
know that they too commit an offence when they act towards boys in
an indecent manner.= (5) Proposed Reforms= (a) It should be made an
offence punishable in the Children's Court for a girl whose age is
under 16 years to permit a person to have carnal knowledge of her
or to handle her indecently.

(c) Consideration should also be given to the desirability of amending
sections 208 and 216 of the Crimes Act and section 203 of the Justices
of the Peace Act.

There are three courses which might be followed:
First, to allow the law to remain as it is.

Secondly, to strike out the proviso which
permits this defence of consent to be raised in cases where the accused
is under 21 years and older than the girl.

Thirdly, to alter the wording of the provision regarding age of consent
from-- "... it is made to appear... that the accused was under 21
and had reasonable cause to believe that the girl was of or over the
age of 16." to-- "... if the accused (being a person under the age
of 21 years) took all reasonable steps to ascertain that the girl
was of or over the age of 16 years and did as a result thereof believe
that she was of or over the age of 16 years."

Any legislation such as is suggested in this subheading would involve an amendment of the Crimes
Act and not merely an amendment of the Child Welfare Act. The Committee therefore suggests to the
Government that further information be obtained as to how the law
regarding "age of consent" is operating in other jurisdictions and
that the information so obtained be submitted to the Law Revision
Committee for its consideration.

XVI. Child Welfare in New Zealand= (1) History of Legislation= In order the better to understand
the limits and extent of the powers under the Child Welfare Act,
and how these powers are capable of improvement and extension, it
is desirable to set out briefly the history of the law pertaining
to institutions and homes established in New Zealand for children
in need of care or correction.

The first provisions were contained in the Neglected and Criminal Children Act 1867. This statute provided
that boys and girls under fifteen years of age could be committed
to industrial schools or reformatories for periods up to seven years. In 1873
the Master of any Industrial School established under the Act became
in loco parentis to children of parents who, because of their criminal
and dissolute habits, were unfit to have the guardianship of their
children.

In 1874 a Naval Training Schools Act was passed under which boys of 10 to 14 years of age, convicted
by magistrates for reasons varying from vagrancy to bad associations,
could be detained in naval training schools or on training ships and
apprenticed to the sea. In 1882 the Industrial Schools Act was passed
making better provision for the control, maintenance, education, and
training of children under the apparent age of fifteen years who
were found to be destitute, neglected, uncontrollable, living in
a detrimental environment, or associating with persons of ill repute,
and also for children who had committed offences against the law.

Prior to the passing of this Act several homes, orphanages, and schools
had been established in various parts of the Colony by religious
organizations and benevolent societies.

They received financial aid out of a vote for charitable institutions administered by the Colonial
Secretary. The Private Industrial Schools Act of 1900 was introduced
as a result of public resentment against the treatment of boys in
a private school.

For the protection of inmates a right of inspection of these private
schools was given to Judges, Members of Parliament, and other named
persons.

The Industrial Schools Act of 1908 was mainly a consolidation of
the law up to that time but the age of children subject to the Act
was increased to 16 years.

The Child Welfare Act of 1925 and the amending Act of 1927 made substantial changes in the attitude
of the State towards children who had erred.

They gave legislative expression to a new world-wide desire for a more scientific approach to the
social problem of dealing with children who had manifested anti-social
tendencies.

The new features provided for in these Acts were: (a) A special branch
(later renamed a Division) of the Department of Education to be known
as the "Child Welfare Branch" was established.

The Branch or Division consisted of the Superintendent of Child Welfare, who, under the control
of the Minister and the Director of Education, was charged with the
administration of the Act; a Deputy Superintendent; and such Welfare
Officers, managers, etc., as might be required.

(b)
Power was taken for the creation of Children's Courts.= (2) The Children's
Court= The idea of treating children who misbehaved as "delinquents"
rather than as offenders against the law arose in Illinois in 1899.

This
experiment in social welfare was followed in other States of America,
and the principle was introduced into New Zealand in 1925. I stood beside her, affecting to listen and admire, but
truly whirled away by my own thoughts. I have always found this young lady to be a lover of
the mysterious; and certainly this first interview made a mystery that was beyond my plummet.
One thing I learned long after, the hours of the Sunday had been well employed, the bank porter
had been found and examined, my visit to Charles Stewart was discovered, and the deduction
made that I was pretty deep with James and Alan, and most likely in a continued correspondence
with the last. Hence this broad hint that was given me across the harpsichord.

In the midst of the piece of music, one of the younger misses, who was at a window over the
close, cried on her sisters to come quick, for there was "Grey eyes again." The whole family
trooped there at once, and crowded one another for a look. The window whither they ran was
in an odd corner of that room, gave above the entrance door, and flanked up the close.

"Come, Mr. Balfour," they cried, "come and see. She is the most beautiful creature! She hangs
round the close-head these last days, always with some wretched-like gillies, and yet seems
quite a lady."

I had no need to look; neither did I look twice, or long. I was afraid she might have seen
me there, looking down upon her from that chamber of music, and she without, and her father
in the same house, perhaps begging for his life with tears, and myself come but newly from
rejecting his petitions. But even that glance set me in a better conceit of myself, and much
less awe of the young ladies. They were beautiful, that was beyond question, but Catriona was
beautiful too, and had a kind of brightness in her like a coal of fire. As much as the others
cast me down, she lifted me up. I remembered I had talked easily with her. If I could make
no hand of it with these fine maids, it was perhaps something their own fault. My embarrassment
began to be a little mingled and lightened with a sense of fun; and when the aunt smiled at
me from her embroidery, and the three daughters unbent to me like a baby, all with "papa's
orders" written on their faces, there were times when I could have found it in my heart to
smile myself.

Presently papa returned, the same kind, happy-like, pleasant-spoken man.

"Now, girls," said he, "I must take Mr. Balfour away again; but I hope you have been able to
persuade him to return where I shall be always gratified to find him."

So they each made me a little farthing compliment, and I was led away.

If this visit to the family had been meant to soften my resistance, it was the worst of failures.
I was no such ass but what I understood how poor a figure I had made, and that the girls would
be yawning their jaws off as soon as my stiff back was turned. I felt I had shown how little
I had in me of what was soft and graceful; and I longed for a chance to prove that I had something
of the other stuff, the stern and dangerous.

Well, I was to be served to my desire, for the scene to which he was conducting me was of a
different character.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER VI

UMQUILE THE MASTER OF LOVAT

There was a man waiting us in Prestongrange's study, whom I distasted at the first look, as
we distaste a ferret or an earwig. He was bitter ugly, but seemed very much of a gentleman;
had still manners, but capable of sudden leaps and violences; and a small voice, which could
ring out shrill and dangerous when he so desired.

The Advocate presented us in a familiar, friendly way.

"Here, Fraser," said he, "here is Mr. Balfour whom we talked about. Mr. David, this is Mr.
Symon Fraser, whom we used to call by another title, but that is an old song. Mr. Fraser has
an errand to you."

With that he stepped aside to his book-shelves, and made believe to consult a quarto volume
in the far end.

I was thus left (in a sense) alone with perhaps the last person in the world I had expected.
There was no doubt upon the terms of introduction; this could be no other than the forfeited
Master of Lovat and chief of the great clan Fraser. I knew he had led his men in the Rebellion;
I knew his father's head--my old lord's, that grey fox of the mountains--to have fallen on
the block for that offence, the lands of the family to have been seized, and their nobility
attainted. I could not conceive what he should be doing in Grant's house; I could not conceive
that he had been called to the bar, had eaten all his principles, and was now currying favour
with the Government even to the extent of acting Advocate-Depute in the Appin murder.

"Well, Mr. Balfour," said he, "what is all this I hear of ye?"

"It would not become me to prejudge," said I, "but if the Advocate was your authority he is
fully possessed of my opinions."

"I may tell you I am engaged in the Appin case," he went on; "I am to appear under Prestongrange;
and from my study of the precognitions I can assure you your opinions are erroneous. The guilt
of Breck is manifest; and your testimony, in which you admit you saw him on the hill at the
very moment, will certify his hanging."

"It will be rather ill to hang him till you catch him," I observed. "And for other matters
I very willingly leave you to your own impressions."

"The Duke has been informed," he went on. "I have just come from his Grace, and he expressed
himself before me with an honest freedom like the great nobleman he is. He spoke of you by
name, Mr. Balfour, and declared his gratitude beforehand in case you would be led by those
who understand your own interests and those of the country so much better than yourself. Gratitude
is no empty expression in that mouth: experto crede. I daresay you know something of my name
and clan, and the damnable example and lamented end of my late father, to say nothing of my
own errata. Well, I have made my peace with that good Duke; he has intervened for me with our
friend Prestongrange; and here I am with my foot in the stirrup again and some of the responsibility
shared into my hand of prosecuting King George's enemies and avenging the late daring and barefaced
insult to his Majesty."

"Doubtless a proud position for your father's son," says I.

He wagged his bald eyebrows at me. "You are pleased to make experiments in the ironical, I
think," said he. "But I am here upon duty, I am here to discharge my errand in good faith,
it is in vain you think to divert me. And let me tell you, for a young fellow of spirit and
ambition like yourself, a good shove in the beginning will do more than ten years' drudgery.
The shove is now at your command; choose what you will to be advanced in, the Duke will watch
upon you with the affectionate disposition of a father."

"I am thinking that I lack the docility of the son," says I.

"And do you really suppose, sir, that the whole policy of this country is to be suffered to
trip up and tumble down for an ill-mannered colt of a boy?" he cried. "This has been made a
test case, all who would prosper in the future must put a shoulder to the wheel. Look at me!
Do you suppose it is for my pleasure that I put myself in the highly invidious position of
prosecuting a man that I have drawn the sword alongside of? The choice is not left me."

"But I think, sir, that you forfeited your choice when you mixed in with that unnatural rebellion,"
I remarked. "My case is happily otherwise; I am a true man, and can look either the Duke or
King George in the face without concern."

"Is it so the wind sits?" says he. "I protest you are fallen in the worst sort of error. Prestongrange
has been hitherto so civil (he tells me) as not to combat your allegations; but you must not
think they are not looked upon with strong suspicion. You say you are innocent. My dear sir,
the facts declare you guilty."

"I was waiting for you there," said I.

"The evidence of Mungo Campbell; your flight after the completion of the murder; your long
course of secresy--my good young man!" said Mr. Symon, "here is enough evidence to hang a bullock,
let be a David Balfour! I shall be upon that trial; my voice shall be raised; I shall then
speak much otherwise from what I do to-day, and far less to your gratification, little as you
like it now! Ah, you look white!" cries he. "I have found the key of your impudent heart. You
look pale, your eyes waver, Mr. David! You see the grave and the gallows nearer by than you
had fancied."

"I own to a natural weakness," said I. "I think no shame for that. Shame . . ." I was going on.

"Shame waits for you on the gibbet," he broke in.

"Where I shall but be even'd with my lord your father," said I.

"Aha, but not so!" he cried, "and you do not yet see to the bottom of this business. My father
suffered in a great cause, and for dealing in the affairs of kings. You are to hang for a dirty
murder about boddle-pieces. Your personal part in it, the treacherous one of holding the poor
wretch in talk, your accomplices a pack of ragged Highland gillies. And it can be shown, my
great Mr. Balfour--it can be shown, and it will be shown, trust me that has a finger in the
pie--it can be shown, and shall be shown, that you were paid to do it. I think I can see the
looks go round the court when I adduce my evidence, and it shall appear that you, a young man
of education, let yourself be corrupted to this shocking act for a suit of cast clothes, a
bottle of Highland spirits, and three-and-fivepence-halfpenny in copper money."

There was a touch of the truth in these words that knocked me like a blow: clothes, a bottle
of usquebaugh, and three-and-fivepence-halfpenny in change made up, indeed, the most of what
Alan and I had carried from Aucharn; and I saw that some of James's people had been blabbing
in their dungeons.

"You see I know more than you fancied," he resumed in triumph. "And as for giving it this turn,
great Mr. David, you must not suppose the Government of Great Britain and Ireland will ever
be stuck for want of evidence. We have men here in prison who will swear out their lives as
we direct them; as I direct, if you prefer the phrase. So now you are to guess your part of
glory if you choose to die. On the one hand, life, wine, women, and a duke to be your hand-gun;
on the other, a rope to your craig, and a gibbet to clatter your bones on, and the lousiest,
lowest story to hand down to your namesakes in the future that was ever told about a hired
assassin. And see here!" he cried, with a formidable shrill voice, "see this paper that I pull
out of my pocket. Look at the name there: it is the name of the great David, I believe, the
ink scarce dry yet. Can you guess its nature? It is the warrant for your arrest, which I have
but to touch this bell beside me to have executed on the spot. Once in the Tolbooth upon this
paper, may God help you, for the die is cast!"

I must never deny that I was greatly horrified by so much baseness, and much unmanned by the
immediacy and ugliness of my danger. Mr. Symon had already gloried in the changes of my hue;
I make no doubt I was now no ruddier than my shirt; my speech besides trembled.

"There is a gentleman in this room," cried I. "I appeal to him. I put my life and credit in
his hands."

Prestongrange shut his book with a snap. "I told you so, Symon," said he; "you have played
your hand for all it was worth, and you have lost. Mr. David," he went on, "I wish you to believe
it was by no choice of mine you were subjected to this proof. I wish you could understand how
glad I am you should come forth from it with so much credit. You may not quite see how, but
it is a little of a service to myself. For had our friend here been more successful than I
was last night, it might have appeared that he was a better judge of men than I; it might have
appeared we were altogether in the wrong situations, Mr. Symon and myself. And I know our friend
Symon to be ambitious," says he, striking lightly on Fraser's shoulder. "As for this stage
play, it is over; my sentiments are very much engaged in your behalf; and whatever issue we
can find to this unfortunate affair, I shall make it my business to see it is adopted with
tenderness to you."

These were very good words, and I could see besides that there was little love, and perhaps
a spice of genuine ill-will, between those two who were opposed to me. For all that, it was
unmistakable this interview had been designed, perhaps rehearsed, with the consent of both;
it was plain my adversaries were in earnest to try me by all methods; and now (persuasion,
flattery, and menaces having been tried in vain) I could not but wonder what would be their
next expedient. My eyes besides were still troubled, and my knees loose under me, with the
distress of the late ordeal; and I could do no more than stammer the same form of words: "I
put my life and credit in your hands."

"Well, well," says he, "we must try to save them. And in the meanwhile let us return to gentler
methods. You must not bear any grudge upon my friend, Mr. Symon, who did but speak by his brief.
And even if you did conceive some malice against myself, who stood by and seemed rather to
hold a candle, I must not let that extend to innocent members of my family. These are greatly
engaged to see more of you, and I cannot consent to have my young women-folk disappointed.
To-morrow they will be going to Hope Park, where I think it very proper you should make your
bow. Call for me first, when I may possibly have something for your private hearing; then you
shall be turned abroad again under the conduct of my misses; and until that time repeat to
me your promise of secrecy."

I had done better to have instantly refused, but in truth I was beside the power of reasoning;
did as I was bid; took my leave I know not how; and when I was forth again in the close, and
the door had shut behind me, was glad to lean on a house wall and wipe my face. That horrid
apparition (as I may call it) of Mr. Symon rang in my memory, as a sudden noise rings after
it is over on the ear. Tales of the man's father, of his falseness, of his manifold perpetual
treacheries, rose before me from all that I had heard and read, and joined on with what I had
just experienced of himself. Each time it occurred to me, the ingenious foulness of that calumny
he had proposed to nail upon my character startled me afresh. The case of the man upon the
gibbet by Leith Walk appeared scarce distinguishable from that I was now to consider as my
own. To rob a child of so little more than nothing was certainly a paltry enterprise for two
grown men; but my own tale, as it was to be represented in a court by Symon Fraser, appeared
a fair second in every possible point of view of sordidness and cowardice.

The voices of two of Prestongrange's liveried men upon his doorstep recalled me to myself.

"Ha'e," said the one, "this billet as fast as ye can link to the captain."

"Is that for the cateran back again?" asked the other.

"It would seem sae," returned the first. "Him and Symon are seeking him."

"I think Prestongrange is gane gyte," says the second. "He'll have James More in bed with him
next."

"Weel, it's neither your affair nor mine's," says the first.

And they parted, the one upon his errand, and the other back into the house.

This looked as ill as possible. I was scarce gone and they were sending already for James More,
to whom I thought Mr. Symon must have pointed when he spoke of men in prison and ready to redeem
their lives by all extremities. My scalp curdled among my hair, and the next moment the blood
leaped in me to remember Catriona. Poor lass! her father stood to be hanged for pretty indefensible
misconduct. What was yet more unpalatable, it now seemed he was prepared to save his four quarters
by the worst of shame and the most foul of cowardly murders--murder by the false oath; and
to complete our misfortunes, it seemed myself was picked out to be the victim.

I began to walk swiftly and at random, conscious only of a desire for movement, air, and the
open country.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER VII

I MAKE A FAULT IN HONOR

I came forth, I vow I know not how, on the Lang Dykes.[12] This is a rural road which runs
on the north side over against the city. Thence I could see the whole black length of it tail
down, from where the castle stands upon its crags above the loch in a long line of spires and
gable ends, and smoking chimneys, and at the sight my heart swelled in my bosom. My youth,
as I have told, was already inured to dangers; but such danger as I had seen the face of but
that morning, in the midst of what they call the safety of a town, shook me beyond experience.
Peril of slavery, peril of shipwreck, peril of sword and shot, I had stood all of these without
discredit; but the peril there was in the sharp voice and the fat face of Symon, properly Lord
Lovat, daunted me wholly.

I sat by the lake side in a place where the rushes went down into the water, and there steeped
my wrists and laved my temples. If I could have done so with any remains of self-esteem I would
now have fled from my foolhardy enterprise. But (call it courage or cowardice, and I believe
it was both the one and the other) I decided I was ventured out beyond the possibility of a
retreat. I had outfaced these men, I would continue to outface them; come what might, I would
stand by the word spoken.

The sense of my own constancy somewhat uplifted my spirits, but not much. At the best of it
there was an icy place about my heart, and life seemed a black business to be at all engaged
in. For two souls in particular my pity flowed. The one was myself, to be so friendless and
lost among dangers. The other was the girl, the daughter of James More. I had seen but little
of her; yet my view was taken and my judgment made. I thought her a lass of a clean honour,
like a man's; I thought her one to die of a disgrace; and now I believed her father to be at
that moment bargaining his vile life for mine. It made a bond in my thoughts betwixt the girl
and me. I had seen her before only as a wayside appearance, though one that pleased me strangely;
I saw her now in a sudden nearness of relation, as the daughter of my blood foe, and I might
say, my murderer. I reflected it was hard I should be so plagued and persecuted all my days
for other folk's affairs, and have no manner of pleasure myself. I got meals and a bed to sleep
in when my concerns would suffer it; beyond that my wealth was of no help to me. If I was to
hang, my days were like to be short; if I was not to hang but to escape out of this trouble,
they might yet seem long to me ere I was done with them. Of a sudden her face appeared in my
memory, the way I had first seen it, with the parted lips; at that, weakness came in my bosom
and strength into my legs; and I set resolutely forward on the way to Dean. If I was to hang
to-morrow, and it was sure enough I might very likely sleep that night in a dungeon, I determined
I should hear and speak once more with Catriona.

The exercise of walking and the thought of my destination braced me yet more, so that I began
to pluck up a kind of spirit. In the village of Dean, where it sits in the bottom of a glen
beside the river, I inquired my way of a miller's man, who sent me up the hill upon the farther
side by a plain path, and so to a decent-like small house in a garden of lawns and apple-trees.
My heart beat high as I stepped inside the garden hedge, but it fell low indeed when I came
face to face with a grim and fierce old lady, walking there in a white mutch with a man's hat
strapped upon the top of it.

"What do ye come seeking here?" she asked.

I told her I was after Miss Drummond.

"And what may be your business with Miss Drummond?" says she.

I told her I had met her on Saturday last, had been so fortunate as to render her a trifling
service, and was come now on the young lady's invitation.

"Oh, so you're Saxpence!" she cried, with a very sneering manner. "A braw gift, a bonny gentleman.
And hae ye ony ither name and designation, or were ye bapteesed Saxpence?" she asked.

I told my name.

"Preserve me!" she cried. "Has Ebenezer gotten a son?"

"No, ma'am," said I. "I am a son of Alexander's. It's I that am the Laird of Shaws."

"Ye'll find your work cut out for ye to establish that," quoth she.

"I perceive you know my uncle," said I; "and I daresay you may be the better pleased to hear
that business is arranged."

"And what brings ye here after Miss Drummond?" she pursued.

"I'm come after my saxpence, mem," said I. "It's to be thought, being my uncle's nephew, I
would be found a careful lad."

"So ye have a spark of sleeness in ye," observed the old lady, with some approval. "I thought
ye had just been a cuif--you and your saxpence, and your lucky day and your sake of Balwhidder"--from
which I was gratified to learn that Catriona had not forgotten some of our talk. "But all this
is by the purpose," she resumed. "Am I to understand that ye come here keeping company?"

"This is surely rather an early question," said I. "The maid is young, so am I, worse fortune.
I have but seen her the once. I'll not deny," I added, making up my mind to try her with some
frankness, "I'll not deny but she has run in my head a good deal since I met in with her. That
is one thing; but it would be quite another, and I think I would look very like a fool, to
commit myself."

"You can speak out of your mouth, I see," said the old lady. "Praise God, and so can I! I was
fool enough to take charge of this rogue's daughter: a fine charge I have gotten; but it's
mine, and I'll carry it the way I want to. Do ye mean to tell me, Mr. Balfour of Shaws, that
you would marry James More's daughter, and him hanged? Well, then, where there's no possible
marriage there shall be no manner of carryings on, and take that for said. Lasses are bruckle
things," she added, with a nod; "and though ye would never think it by my wrunkled chafts,
I was a lassie mysel', and a bonny one."

"Lady Allardyce," said I, "for that I suppose to be your name, you seem to do the two sides
of the talking, which is a very poor manner to come to an agreement. You give me rather a home
thrust when you ask if I would marry, at the gallows' foot, a young lady whom I have seen but
the once. I have told you already I would never be so untenty as to commit myself. And yet
I'll go some way with you. If I continue to like the lass as well as I have reason to expect,
it will be something more than her father, or the gallows either, that keeps the two of us
apart. As for my family, I found it by the wayside like a lost bawbee! I owe less than nothing
to my uncle; and if ever I marry, it will be to please one person: that's myself."

"I have heard this kind of talk before ye were born," said Mrs. Ogilvy, "which is perhaps the
reason that I think of it so little. There's much to be considered. This James More is a kinsman
of mine, to my shame be it spoken. But the better the family, the mair men hanged or heided,
that's always been poor Scotland's story. And if it was just the hanging! For my part, I think
I would be best pleased with James upon the gallows, which would be at least an end to him.
Catrine's a good lass enough, and a good-hearted, and lets herself be deaved all day with a
runt of an auld wife like me. But, ye see, there's the weak bit. She's daft about that long,
false, fleeching beggar of a father of hers, and red-mad about the Gregara, and proscribed
names, and King James, and a wheen blethers. And you might think ye could guide her, ye would
find yourself sore mista'en. Ye say ye've seen her but the once..."

"Spoke with her but the once, I should have said," I interrupted. "I saw her again this morning
from a window at Prestongrange's."

This I daresay I put in because it sounded well; but I was properly paid for my ostentation
on the return.

"What's this of it?" cries the old lady, with a sudden pucker of her face. "I think it was
at the Advocate's door-cheek that ye met her first."

I told her that was so.

"H'm," she said; and then suddenly, upon rather a scolding tone, "I have your bare word for
it," she cries, "as to who and what you are. By your way of it, you're Balfour of the Shaws;
but for what I ken you may be Balfour of the Deevil's oxter. It's possible ye may come here
for what ye say, and it's equally possible ye may come here for deil care what! I'm good enough
whig to sit quiet, and to have keepit all my men-folk's heads upon their shoulders. But I'm
not just a good enough whig to be made a fool of neither. And I tell you fairly, there's too
much Advocate's door and Advocate's window here for a man that comes taigling after a Macgregor's
daughter. Ye can tell that to the Advocate that sent ye, with my fond love. And I kiss my loof
to ye, Mr. Balfour," says she, suiting the action to the word, "and a braw journey to ye back
to where ye cam frae."

"If you think me a spy," I broke out, and speech stuck in my throat. I stood and looked murder
at the old lady for a space, then bowed and turned away.

"Here! Hoots! The callant's in a creel!" she cried. "Think ye a spy? what else would I think
ye--me that kens naething by ye? But I see that I was wrong; and as I cannot fight, I'll have
to apologise. A bonny figure I would be with a broadsword. Ay! ay!" she went on, "you're none
such a bad lad in your way; I think ye'll have some redeeming vices. But, oh, Davit Balfour,
ye're damned countryfeed. Ye'll have to win over that, lad; ye'll have to soople your back-bone,
and think a wee pickle less of your dainty self; and ye'll have to try to find out that women-folk
are nae grenadiers. But that can never be. To your last day you'll ken no more of women-folk
than what I do of sow-gelding."

I had never been used with such expressions from a lady's tongue, the only two ladies I had
known, Mrs. Campbell and my mother, being most devout and most particular women; and I suppose
my amazement must have been depicted in my countenance, for Mrs. Ogilvy burst forth suddenly
in a fit of laughter.

"Keep me!" she cried, struggling with her mirth, "you have the finest timber face--and you
to marry the daughter of a Hieland cateran! Davie, my dear, I think we'll have to make a match
of it--if it was just to see the weans. And now," she went on, "there's no manner of service
in your daidling here, for the young woman is from home, and it's my fear that the old woman
is no suitable companion for your father's son. Forbye that I have nobody but myself to look
after my reputation, and have been long enough alone with a sedooctive youth. And come back
another day for your saxpence!" she cried after me as I left.

My skirmish with this disconcerting lady gave my thoughts a boldness they had otherwise wanted.
For two days the image of Catriona had mixed in all my meditations; she made their background,
so that I scarce enjoyed my own company without a glint of her in a corner of my mind. But
now she came immediately near; I seemed to touch her, whom I had never touched but the once;
I let myself flow out to her in a happy weakness, and looking all about, and before and behind,
saw the world like an undesirable desert, where men go as soldiers on a march, following their
duty with what constancy they have, and Catriona alone there to offer me some pleasure of my
days; I wondered at myself that I could dwell on such considerations in that time of my peril
and disgrace; and when I remembered my youth I was ashamed. I had my studies to complete; I
had to be called into some useful business; I had yet to take my part of service in a place
where all must serve; I had yet to learn, and know, and prove myself a man; and I had so much
sense as blush that I should be already tempted with these further-on and holier delights and
duties. My education spoke home to me sharply; I was never brought up on sugar biscuits, but
on the hard food of the truth. I knew that he was quite unfit to be a husband who was not prepared
to be a father also; and for a boy like me to play the father was a mere derision.

When I was in the midst of these thoughts and about half-way back to town I saw a figure coming
to meet me, and the trouble of my heart was heightened. It seemed I had everything in the world
to say to her, but nothing to say first; and remembering how tongue-tied I had been that morning
at the Advocate's, I made sure that I would find myself struck dumb. But when she came up my
fears fled away; not even the consciousness of what I had been privately thinking disconcerted
me the least; and I found I could talk with her as easily and rationally as I might with Alan.

"O!" she cried, "you have been seeking your sixpence: did you get it?"

I told her no; but now I had met with her my walk was not in vain. "Though I have seen you
to-day already," said I, and told her where and when.

"I did not see you," she said. "My eyes are big, but there are better than mine at seeing far.
Only I heard singing in the house."

"That was Miss Grant," said I, "the eldest and the bonniest."

"They say they are all beautiful," said she.

"They think the same of you, Miss Drummond," I replied, "and were all crowding to the window
to observe you."

"It is a pity about my being so blind," said she, "or I might have seen them too. And you were
in the house? You must have been having the fine time with the fine music and the pretty ladies."

"There is just where you are wrong," said I; "for I was as uncouth as a sea-fish upon the brae
of a mountain. The truth is that I am better fitted to go about with rudas men than pretty ladies."

"Well, I would think so too, at all events!" said she, at which we both of us laughed.

"It is a strange thing, now," said I. "I am not the least afraid with you, yet I could have
run from the Miss Grants. And I was afraid of your cousin too."

"O, I think any man will be afraid of her," she cried. "My father is afraid of her himself."

The name of her father brought me to a stop. I looked at her as she walked by my side; I recalled
the man, and the little I knew and the much I guessed of him; and comparing the one with the
other, felt like a traitor to be silent.

"Speaking of which," said I, "I met your father no later than this morning."

"Did you?" she cried, with a voice of joy that seemed to mock at me. "You saw James More? You
will have spoken with him, then?"

"I did even that," said I.

Then I think things went the worst way for me that was humanly possible. She gave me a look
of mere gratitude. "Ah, thank you for that!" says she.

"You thank me for very little," said I, and then stopped. But it seemed when I was holding
back so much, something at least had to come out. "I spoke rather ill to him," said I; "I did
not like him very much; I spoke him rather ill, and he was angry."

"I think you had little to do then, and less to tell it to his daughter!" she cried out. "But
those that do not love and cherish him I will not know."

"I will take the freedom of a word yet," said I, beginning to tremble. "Perhaps neither your
father nor I are in the best of good spirits at Prestongrange's. I daresay we both have anxious
business there, for it's a dangerous house. I was sorry for him too, and spoke to him the first,
if I could but have spoken the wiser. And for one thing, in my opinion, you will soon find
that his affairs are mending."

"It will not be through your friendship, I am thinking," said she; "and he is much made up
to you for your sorrow."

"Miss Drummond," cried I, "I am alone in this world...."

"And I am not wondering at that," said she.

"O, let me speak!" said I. "I will speak but the once, and then leave you, if you will, for
ever. I came this day in the hopes of a kind word that I am sore in want of. I know that what
I said must hurt you, and I knew it then. It would have been easy to have spoken smooth, easy
to lie to you; can you not think how I was tempted to the same? Cannot you see the truth of
my heart shine out?"

"I think here is a great deal of work, Mr. Balfour," said she. "I think we will have met but
the once, and will can part like gentle-folk."

"O, let me have one to believe in me!" I pleaded, "I cannae bear it else. The whole world is
clanned against me. How am I to go through with my dreadful fate? If there's to be none to
believe in me I cannot do it. The man must just die, for I cannot do it."

She had still looked straight in front of her, head in air; but at my words or the tone of
my voice she came to a stop. "What is this you say?" she asked. "What are you talking of?"

"It is my testimony which may save an innocent life," said I, "and they will not suffer me
to bear it. What would you do yourself? You know what this is, whose father lies in danger.
Would you desert the poor soul? They have tried all ways with me. They have sought to bribe
me; they offered me hills and valleys. And to-day that sleuth-hound told me how I stood, and
to what a length he would go to butcher and disgrace me. I am to be brought in a party to the
murder; I am to have held Glenure in talk for money and old clothes; I am to be killed and
shamed. If this is the way I am to fall, and me scarce a man--if this is the story to be told
of me in all Scotland--if you are to believe it too, and my name is to be nothing but a by-word--Catriona,
how can I go through with it? The thing's not possible; it's more than a man has in his heart."

I poured my words out in a whirl, one upon the other; and when I stopped I found her gazing
on me with a startled face.

"Glenure! It is the Appin murder," she said softly, but with a very deep surprise.

I had turned back to bear her company, and we were now come near the head of the brae above
Dean village. At this word I stepped in front of her like one suddenly distracted.

"For God's sake!" I cried, "for God's sake, what is this that I have done?" and carried my
fists to my temples. "What made me do it? Sure, I am bewitched to say these things!"

"In the name of heaven, what ails you now?" she cried.

"I gave my honour," I groaned, "I gave my honour and now I have broke it. O, Catriona!"

"I am asking you what it is," she said; "was it these things you should not have spoken? And
do you think I have no honour, then? or that I am one that would betray a friend? I hold up
my right hand to you and swear."

"O, I knew you would be true!" said I. "It's me--it's here. I that stood but this morning and
out-faced them, that risked rather to die disgraced upon the gallows than do wrong--and a few
hours after I throw my honour away by the roadside in common talk! 'There is one thing clear
upon our interview,' says he, 'that I can rely on your pledged word.' Where is my word now?
Who could believe me now? You could not believe me. I am clean fallen down; I had best die!"
All this I said with a weeping voice, but I had no tears in my body.

"My heart is sore for you," said she, "but be sure you are too nice. I would not believe you,
do you say? I would trust you with anything. And these men? I would not be thinking of them!
Men who go about to entrap and to destroy you! Fy! this is no time to crouch. Look up! Do you
not think I will be admiring you like a great hero of the good--and you a boy not much older
than myself? And because you said a word too much in a friend's ear, that would die ere she
betrayed you--to make such a matter! It is one thing that we must both forget."

"Catriona," said I, looking at her, hang-dog, "is this true of it? Would ye trust me yet?"

"Will you not believe the tears upon my face?" she cried. "It is the world I am thinking of
you, Mr. David Balfour. Let them hang you; I will never forget, I will grow old and still remember
you. I think it is great to die so; I will envy you that gallows."

"And maybe all this while I am but a child frighted with bogles," said I. "Maybe they but make
a mock of me."

"It is what I must know," she said. "I must hear the whole. The harm is done at all events,
and I must hear the whole."

I had sat down on the wayside, where she took a place beside me, and I told her all that matter
much as I have written it, my thoughts about her father's dealing being alone omitted.

"Well," she said, when I had finished, "you are a hero, surely, and I never would have thought
that same! And I think you are in peril, too. O, Symon Fraser! to think upon that man! For
his life and the dirty money, to be dealing in such traffic!" And just then she called out
aloud with a queer word that was common with her, and belongs, I believe, to her own language.
"My torture!" says she, "look at the sun!"

Indeed, it was already dipping towards the mountains.

She bid me come again soon, gave me her hand, and left me in a turmoil of glad spirits. I delayed
to go home to my lodging, for I had a terror of immediate arrest; but got some supper at a
change house, and the better part of that night walked by myself in the barley-fields, and
had such a sense of Catriona's presence that I seemed to bear her in my arms.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER VIII

THE BRAVO

The next day, August 29th, I kept my appointment at the Advocate's in a coat that I had made
to my own measure, and was but newly ready.

"Aha," says Prestongrange, "you are very fine to-day; my misses are to have a fine cavalier.
Come, I take that kind of you. I take that kind of you, Mr. David. O, we shall do very well
yet, and I believe your troubles are nearly at an end."

"You have news for me?" cried I.

"Beyond anticipation," he replied. "Your testimony is after all to be received; and you may
go, if you will, in my company to the trial, which is to be held at Inverary, Thursday, 21st
proximo."

I was too much amazed to find words.

"In the meanwhile," he continued, "though I will not ask you to renew your pledge, I must caution
you strictly to be reticent. To-morrow your precognition must be taken; and outside of that,
do you know, I think least said will be soonest mended."

"I shall try to go discreetly," said I. "I believe it is yourself that I must thank for this
crowning mercy, and I do thank you gratefully. After yesterday, my lord, this is like the doors
of Heaven. I cannot find it in my heart to get the thing believed."

"Ah, but you must try and manage, you must try and manage to believe it," says he, soothing-like,
"and I am very glad to hear your acknowledgment of obligation, for I think you may be able
to repay me very shortly"--he coughed--"or even now. The matter is much changed. Your testimony,
which I shall not trouble you for to-day, will doubtless alter the complexion of the case for
all concerned, and this makes it less delicate for me to enter with you on a side issue."

"My lord," I interrupted, "excuse me for interrupting you, but how has this been brought about?
The obstacles you told me of on Saturday appeared even to me to be quite insurmountable; how
has it been contrived?"

"My dear Mr. David," said he, "it would never do for me to divulge (even to you, as you say)
the councils of the Government; and you must content yourself, if you please, with the gross fact."

He smiled upon me like a father as he spoke, playing the while with a new pen; methought it
was impossible there could be any shadow of deception in the man: yet when he drew to him a
sheet of paper, dipped his pen among the ink, and began again to address me, I was somehow
not so certain, and fell instinctively into an attitude of guard.

"There is a point I wish to touch upon," he began. "I purposely left it before upon one side,
which need be now no longer necessary. This is not, of course, a part of your examination,
which is to follow by another hand; this is a private interest of my own. You say you encountered
Breck upon the hill?"

"I did, my lord," said I.

"This was immediately after the murder?"

"It was."

"Did you speak to him?"

"I did."

"You had known him before, I think?" says my lord, carelessly.

"I cannot guess your reason for so thinking, my lord," I replied, "but such is the fact."

"And when did you part with him again?" said he.

"I reserve my answer," said I. "The question will be put to me at the assize."

"Mr. Balfour," said he, "will you not understand that all this is without prejudice to yourself?
I have promised you life and honour; and, believe me, I can keep my word. You are therefore
clear of all anxiety. Alan, it appears, you suppose you can protect; and you talk to me of
your gratitude, which I think (if you push me) is not ill-deserved. There are a great many
different considerations all pointing the same way; and I will never be persuaded that you
could not help us (if you chose) to put salt on Alan's tail."

"My lord," said I, "I give you my word I do not so much as guess where Alan is."

He paused a breath. "Nor how he might be found?" he asked.

I sat before him like a log of wood.

"And so much for your gratitude, Mr. David!" he observed. Again there was a piece of silence.
"Well," said he, rising, "I am not fortunate, and we are a couple at cross purposes. Let us
speak of it no more; you will receive notice when, where, and by whom we are to take your precognition.
And in the meantime, my misses must be waiting you. They will never forgive me if I detain
their cavalier."

Into the hands of these graces I was accordingly offered up, and found them dressed beyond
what I had thought possible, and looking fair as a posy.

As we went forth from the doors a small circumstance occurred which came afterwards to look
extremely big. I heard a whistle sound loud and brief like a signal, and looking all about,
spied for one moment the red head of Neil of the Tom, the son of Duncan. The next moment he
was gone again, nor could I see so much as the skirt-tail of Catriona, upon whom I naturally
supposed him to be then attending.

My three keepers led me out by Bristo and the Bruntsfield Links; whence a path carried us to
Hope Park, a beautiful pleasance, laid with gravel-walks, furnished with seats and summer-sheds,
and warded by a keeper.

The way there was a little longsome; the two younger misses affected an air of genteel weariness
that damped me cruelly, the eldest considered me with something that at times appeared like
mirth; and though I thought I did myself more justice than the day before, it was not without
some effort. Upon our reaching the park I was launched on a bevy of eight or ten young gentlemen
(some of them cockaded officers, the rest chiefly advocates) who crowded to attend upon these
beauties; and though I was presented to all of them in very good words, it seemed I was by
all immediately forgotten. Young folk in a company are like to savage animals: they fall upon
or scorn a stranger without civility, or I may say, humanity; and I am sure, if I had been
among baboons, they would have shown me quite as much of both. Some of the advocates set up
to be wits, and some of the soldiers to be rattles; and I could not tell which of these extremes
annoyed me most. All had a manner of handling their swords and coat-skirts, for the which (in
mere black envy) I could have kicked them from that park. I daresay, upon their side, they
grudged me extremely the fine company in which I had arrived; and altogether I had soon fallen
behind, and stepped stiffly in the rear of all that merriment with my own thoughts.

From these I was recalled by one of the officers, Lieutenant Hector Duncansby, a gawky, leering,
Highland boy, asking if my name was not "Palfour."

I told him it was, not very kindly, for his manner was scant civil.

"Ha, Palfour," says he, and then, repeating it, "Palfour, Palfour!"

"I am afraid you do not like my name, sir," says I, annoyed with myself to be annoyed with
such a rustical fellow.

"No," says he, "but I wass thinking."

"I would not advise you to make a practice of that, sir," says I. "I feel sure you would not
find it to agree with you."

"Tit you effer hear where Alan Grigor fand the tangs?" said he.

I asked him what he could possibly mean, and he answered, with a heckling laugh, that he thought
I must have found the poker in the same place and swallowed it.

There could be no mistake about this, and my cheek burned.

"Before I went about to put affronts on gentlemen," said I, "I think I would learn the English
language first."

He took me by the sleeve with a nod and a wink, and led me quietly outside Hope Park. But no
sooner were we beyond the view of the promenaders, than the fashion of his countenance changed.
"You tam lowland scoon'rel!" cries he, and hit me a buffet on the jaw with his closed fist.

I paid him as good or better on the return; whereupon he stepped a little back and took off
his hat to me decorously.

"Enough plows I think," says he. "I will be the offended shentleman, for who effer heard of
such suffeeciency as tell a shentlemans that is the king's officer he cannae speak Cot's English?
We have swords at our hurdies, and here is the King's Park at hand. Will ye walk first, or
let me show ye the way?"

I returned his bow, told him to go first, and followed him. As he went I heard him grumble
to himself about Cot's English and the King's coat, so that I might have supposed him to be
seriously offended. But his manner at the beginning of our interview was there to belie him.
It was manifest he had come prepared to fasten a quarrel on me, right or wrong; manifest that
I was taken in a fresh contrivance of my enemies; and to me (conscious as I was of my deficiencies)
manifest enough that I should be the one to fall in our encounter.

As we came into that rough rocky desert of the King's Park I was tempted half-a-dozen times
to take to my heels and run for it, so loath was I to show my ignorance in fencing, and so
much averse to die or even to be wounded. But I considered if their malice went as far as this,
it would likely stick at nothing; and that to fall by the sword, however ungracefully, was
still an improvement on the gallows. I considered besides that by the unguarded pertness of
my words and the quickness of my blow I had put myself quite out of court; and that even if
I ran, my adversary would, probably pursue and catch me, which would add disgrace to my misfortune.
So that, taking all in all, I continued marching behind him, much as a man follows the hangman,
and certainly with no more hope.

We went about the end of the long craigs, and came into the Hunter's Bog. Here, on a piece
of fair turf, my adversary drew. There was nobody there to see us but some birds; and no resource
for me but to follow his example, and stand on guard with the best face I could display. It
seems it was not good enough for Mr. Duncansby, who spied some flaw in my manoeuvres, paused,
looked upon me sharply, and came off and on, and menaced me with his blade in the air. As I
had seen no such proceedings from Alan, and was besides a good deal affected with the proximity
of death, I grew quite bewildered, stood helpless, and could have longed to run away.

"Fat, deil, ails her?" cries the lieutenant.

And suddenly engaging, he twitched the sword out of my grasp and sent it flying far among the
rushes.

Twice was this manoeuvre repeated; and the third time when I brought back my humiliated weapon,
I found he had returned his own to the scabbard, and stood awaiting me with a face of some
anger, and his hands clasped under his skirt.

"Pe tamned if I touch you!" he cried, and asked me bitterly what right I had to stand up before
"shentlemans" when I did not know the back of a sword from the front of it.

I answered that was the fault of my upbringing; and would he do me the justice to say I had
given him all the satisfaction it was unfortunately in my power to offer, and had stood up
like a man?

"And that is the truth," said he. "I am fery prave myself, and pold as a lions. But to stand
up there--and you ken naething of fence!--the way that you did, I declare it was peyond me.
And I am sorry for the plow; though I declare I pelief your own was the elder brother, and
my held still sings with it. And I declare if I had kent what way it wass, I would not put
a hand to such a piece of pusiness."

"That is handsomely said," I replied, "and I am sure you will not stand up a second time to
be the actor for my private enemies."

"Indeed, no, Palfour," said he; "and I think I was used extremely suffeeciently myself to be
set up to fecht with an auld wife, or all the same as a bairn whateffer! And I will tell the
Master so, and fecht him, by Cot, himself!"

"And if you knew the nature of Mr. Symon's quarrel with me," said I, "you would be yet the
more affronted to be mingled up with such affairs."

He swore he could well believe it; that all the Lovats were made of the same meal and the devil
was the miller that ground that; then suddenly shaking me by the hand, he vowed I was a pretty
enough fellow after all, that it was a thousand pities I had been neglected, and that if he
could find the time, he would give an eye himself to have me educated.

"You can do me a better service than even what you propose," said I; and when he had asked
its nature--"Come with me to the house of one of my enemies, and testify how I have carried
myself this day," I told him. "That will be the true service. For though he has sent me a gallant
adversary for the first, the thought in Mr. Symon's mind is merely murder. There will be a
second and then a third; and by what you have seen of my cleverness with the cold steel, you
can judge for yourself what is like to be upshot."

"And I would not like it myself, if I was no more of a man than what you wass!" he cried. "But
I will do you right, Palfour. Lead on!"

If I had walked slowly on the way into that accursed park my heels were light enough on the
way out. They kept time to a very good old air, that is as ancient as the Bible, and the words
of it are: "Surely the bitterness of death is passed." I mind that I was extremely thirsty,
and had a drink at Saint Margaret's well on the road down, and the sweetness of that water
passed belief. We went through the sanctuary, up the Canongate, in by the Netherbow, and straight
to Prestongrange's door, talking as we came and arranging the details of our affair. The footman
owned his master was at home, but declared him engaged with other gentlemen on very private
business, and his door forbidden.

"My business is but for three minutes, and it cannot wait," said I. "You may say it is by no
means private, and I shall be even glad to have some witnesses."

As the man departed unwillingly enough upon this errand, we made so bold as to follow him to
the antechamber, whence I could hear for a while the murmuring of several voices in the room
within. The truth is, they were three at the one table--Prestongrange, Symon Fraser, and Mr.
Erskine, Sheriff of Perth; and as they were met in consultation on the very business of the
Appin murder, they were a little disturbed at my appearance, but decided to receive me.

"Well, well, Mr. Balfour, and what brings you here again? and who is this you bring with you?"
says Prestongrange.

As for Fraser, he looked before him on the table.

"He is here to bear a little testimony in my favour, my lord, which I think it very needful
you should hear," said I, and turned to Duncansby.

"I have only to say this," said the lieutenant, "that I stood up this day with Palfour in the
Hunter's Pog, which I am now fery sorry for, and he behaved himself as pretty as a shentlemans
could ask it. And I have creat respects for Palfour," he added.

"I thank you for your honest expressions," said I.

Whereupon Duncansby made his bow to the company, and left the chamber, as we had agreed upon
before.

"What have I to do with this?" says Prestongrange.

"I will tell your lordship in two words," said I. "I have brought this gentleman, a King's
officer, to do me so much justice. Now I think my character is covered, and until a certain
date, which your lordship can very well supply, it will be quite in vain to despatch against
me any more officers. I will not consent to fight my way through the garrison of the castle."

The veins swelled on Prestongrange's brow, and he regarded me with fury.

"I think the devil uncoupled this dog of a lad between my legs!" he cried; and then, turning
fiercely on his neighbour, "This is some of your work, Symon," he said. "I spy your hand in
the business, and, let me tell you, I resent it. It is disloyal, when we are agreed upon one
expedient, to follow another in the dark. You are disloyal to me. What! you let me send this
lad to the place with my very daughters! And because I let drop a word to you ... Fy, sir,
keep your dishonours to yourself!"

Symon was deadly pale. "I will be a kick-ball between you and the Duke no longer," he exclaimed.
"Either come to an agreement, or come to a differ, and have it out among yourselves. But I
will no longer fetch and carry, and get your contrary instructions, and be blamed by both.
For if I were to tell you what I think of all your Hanover business it would make your head sing."

But Sheriff Erskine had preserved his temper, and now intervened smoothly. "And in the meantime,"
says he, "I think we should tell Mr. Balfour that his character for valour is quite established.
He may sleep in peace. Until the date he was so good as to refer to it shall be put to the
proof no more."

His coolness brought the others to their prudence; and they made haste, with a somewhat distracted
civility, to pack me from the house.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER IX

THE HEATHER ON FIRE

When I left Prestongrange that afternoon I was for the first time angry. The Advocate had made
a mock of me. He had pretended my testimony was to be received and myself respected; and in
that very hour, not only was Symon practising against my life by the hands of the Highland
soldier, but (as appeared from his own language) Prestongrange himself had some design in operation.
I counted my enemies: Prestongrange with all the King's authority behind him; and the Duke
with the power of the West Highlands; and the Lovat interest by their side to help them with
so great a force in the north, and the whole clan of old Jacobite spies and traffickers. And
when I remembered James More, and the red head of Neil the son of Duncan, I thought there was
perhaps a fourth in the confederacy, and what remained of Rob Roy's old desperate sept of caterans
would be banded against me with the others. One thing was requisite, some strong friend or
wise adviser. The country must be full of such, both able and eager to support me, or Lovat
and the Duke and Prestongrange had not been nosing for expedients; and it made me rage to think
that I might brush against my champions in the street and be no wiser.

And just then (like an answer) a gentleman brushed against me going by, gave me a meaning look,
and turned into a close. I knew him with the tail of my eye--it was Stewart the Writer; and,
blessing my good fortune, turned in to follow him. As soon as I had entered the close I saw
him standing in the mouth of a stair, where he made me a signal and immediately vanished. Seven
storeys up, there he was again in a house door, the which he locked behind us after we had
entered. The house was quite dismantled, with not a stick of furniture; indeed, it was one
of which Stewart had the letting in his hands.

"We'll have to sit upon the floor," said he; "but we're safe here for the time being, and I've
been wearying to see ye, Mr. Balfour."

"How's it with Alan?'" I asked.

"Brawly," said he. "Andie picks him up at Gillane Sands to-morrow, Wednesday. He was keen to
say good-by to ye, but the way that things were going, I was feared the pair of ye was maybe
best apart. And that brings me to the essential: how does your business speed?"

"Why," said I, "I was told only this morning that my testimony was accepted, and I was to travel
to Inverary with the Advocate, no less."

"Hout awa!" cried Stewart. "I'll never believe that."

"I have maybe a suspicion of my own," says I, "but I would like fine to hear your reasons."

"Well, I tell ye fairly, I'm horn-mad," cries Stewart. "If my one hand could pull their Government
down I would pluck it like a rotten apple. I'm doer for Appin and for James of the Glens; and,
of course, it's my duty to defend my kinsman for his life. Hear how it goes with me, and I'll
leave the judgment of it to yourself. The first thing they have to do is to get rid of Alan.
They cannae bring in James as art and part until they've brought in Alan first as principal;
that's sound law: they could never put the cart before the horse."

"And how are they to bring in Alan till they can catch him?" says I.

"Ah, but there is a way to evite that arrestment," said he. "Sound law, too. (g) No Follow-up
Procedure When children are placed "under supervision" there is not
any procedure whereby reports are submitted to the Court or other
body concerning their welfare or their doings.

Again, when children are committed to the care of the State or are under supervision as a result of delinquency
they may lawfully be transferred from one institution to another or may be boarded out in foster-homes
without any intimation being made to their own parents. If a child is boarded out in another
district it may be enrolled at a school without the principal being given such information as might
enable him to be of assistance in its reclamation. The Committee feels that there should be some person
or body apart from the departmental officers to whom a child could turn for help if it is unhappy
in its new surroundings or feels that it is not being properly treated.=
(5) Changes Proposed= In the foregoing subsections it was sought to
show how it came about that the statute itself is not a completely
satisfactory one.

Some of its provisions were adapted from earlier statutes which dealt with "neglected" and "criminal"
children, and "industrial schools". In the course of the history of the legislation the age
of a "child" has been progressively raised from 14 to 15, to 16,
to 17, and to 18 years.

Many of those dealt with would scorn to be regarded as "children"
in the outside world, but they are glad to have the advantages accruing
from being dealt with in a Children's Court.

It is pleasing to know that some officers of the Division are concentrating upon preventive
work, but just where, and how such work is being done, and the effect of it cannot be measured.
The Committee makes the following recommendations for amendments
to the existing legislation: (a) The Creation of a New Offence under
which children of either sex who are guilty of indecent behaviour
may be charged as "delinquents" in lieu of the present procedure under
which the boy must necessarily be charged and gazetted as a criminal
while the girl is not charged at all.

A suitable amending clause would be: Every child shall be deemed to
be a delinquent child within the meaning of the Principal Act who--
(i) Being a male, carnally knows or attempts to carnally know any
female child under the age of sixteen years; (ii) Being a female,
incites or encourages a male to carnally know her and permits or suffers
him to do so; (iii) Indecently assaults any other child.

It shall not be a defence to an information or complaint under this section that any child
consented to the act.

(b) The Attendance of Parents at a Children's Court Should be Made Compulsory: There is not
at present any provision whereby the parents of a child who commits an
offence must attend Court.

The provision in section 13 (1) that the Justice may require the
person having the custody of a "delinquent" child to attend, with
or without the child, does not meet present needs.

The Committee therefore recommends the acceptance by the legislature of the following new provision: In every
case in which a complaint or information is laid against any child, or against the parent or guardian
of a child, under section 13 of the principal Act, the Justice before
whom the said complaint or information is laid shall issue his summons
to at least one of the parents of the said child or to the guardian
or other person having the custody of such child to appear before
the Children's Court with the said child.

(c) The Court Should Have Power to Make Orders Against the Parents
of Offending or Delinquent Children: Suitable clauses in this connection
submitted for the consideration of the Government are: (1) Where a
child is charged with any offence for the commission of which a fine
or costs may be imposed, if the Court is of the opinion that the case
would be best met by the imposition of a fine or costs, whether with
or without any other punishment or remedy provided by the principal
Act, the Court may order that the whole or any part of the fine or
costs awarded to the informant or complainant be paid by any parent
or guardian of such child unless the Court is satisfied that such
parent or guardian has not conduced to the commission of the offence
by neglecting to exercise due care and control of the child.

(2) In the case of a child charged with any offence the Court may, in addition
to or without entering a conviction against the child, order that
the parent or guardian give security for the good behaviour of such
child in the future for such period as to the Court may appear just
and expedient.

(3) The Court may also in its discretion make
an order directing that the children's benefit or family benefit
payable to the parent or guardian in respect of such child by the
Social Security Commission be suspended until the parent or guardian
gives the security required by the preceding subsection hereof for
such future further or other period as the Court may think fit or
until the Court is assured that the said parent or guardian is exercising
due care and control of the child.

(4)
A copy of any order made in directing the suspension of the payment
of any children's benefit or family benefit shall immediately be
forwarded by the Court to the Social Security Commission.

(5) The Court may suspend the
coming into force of any such order or may at any time terminate
the period of suspension or revoke any order made by it, whereupon
the Commission of Social Security may pay to the parent or guardian
all such benefits or allowances as would have been payable but for
the order of suspension from the date of the said suspension or from
such other date as the Court may think fair and just.

(6) Nothing herein shall be deemed to effect or limit the powers vested in the Social Security Commission
by sections 62 and 72 of the Social Security Act 1938.

(7) An order under this section may be made against a parent or guardian who, having been required
to attend at the Court with the said child, has failed to do so, but, save as aforesaid, no such
order shall be made without giving the parent or guardian an opportunity of being heard. (8)
A parent or guardian may appeal to the Supreme Court against any order
made under this section.

(d) When Any Child is Expelled From School Notification of the Fact
Should Immediately be Given to the Child Welfare Division: The following
draft clause expresses what the Committee has in mind: When any child
under the school leaving age has been expelled from school for any
reason or any other child has been suspended or expelled for immoral
behaviour, it shall be the duty of the principal or the governing
body of the school or other person (whichever has the power to suspend
or expel), to inform the Superintendent of Child Welfare or the nearest
Child Welfare Officer of the fact that the said child has been suspended
or expelled from the school, and the said Superintendent or Child
Welfare Officer shall immediately on receipt of such information take
such action as may be proper or desirable in the interests of the
said child.

(f)
That the Statute Should be Completely Redrafted and the Child Welfare Division Reorganized on an
Autonomous Basis: In this redrafting and reorganization special regard should be had to: (a) The
precise duties expected of every Child Welfare Officer, whether he or she be a member of the Public
Service or an "honorary Child Welfare Officer". (b) The provision of
Children's Court rooms away from the Magistrate's Court or the holding
of sittings of the Children's Court on days when no other Court business
is being conducted.

(c) The selection of Magistrates who are specially qualified to perform the duties required of
a Justice of the Children's Court. (d) The opening of proceedings to accredited representatives
of the press, who should not, however, be permitted to publish the
names of persons brought before the Court whether as offenders, parents,
or witnesses, or any facts by which they may be identified.

(e) The taking of the opinion of a school principal on any recommendation
affecting the future of one of his pupils. (f) Provisions for a right
of appeal from any decision of the Children's Court or from any decision
of the Superintendent regarding any child. XVII. Summary of Conclusions
1. Sexual immorality among juveniles has become a world-wide problem
of increasing importance, but the great majority of the young people
of this Dominion are healthy-minded and well-behaved. 2. As sexual immorality
is generally clandestine, is often not criminal, and even when criminal
may not be detected, there are not any statistics from which it can
be shown whether, or to what extent, it has increased.

3. During recent years the pattern of sexual misbehaviour has changed:
it has spread to younger groups; girls have become more precocious;
immorality has been organized; the mental attitude of some boys and girls
towards misconduct has altered; and there is evidence that homosexuality
may be increasing.

4. The new pattern of juvenile immorality is uncertain in origin, insidious in growth, and has
developed over a wide field. 5. Objectionable publications ought to
be banned by establishing a system for the registration of distributors
of certain printed matter. Urgent action is necessary so that publications
now banned in other countries will not be dumped into this Dominion.
6. The absence of regulations necessary to make the Film Censor's
recommendations effective deprives parents of the protection which
the Legislature intended for them.

7. The possibility that children may hear radio programmes unsuitable for them calls for firmness
and discretion on the part of parents and more care by the Broadcasting
Service in arranging and timing programmes.

Serials
and recordings giving undue emphasis to crime or sex are not desirable,
nor is the frequent repetition of recordings that are capable of misinterpretation,
particularly in times like the present. 8. Advertisers should realize
that the increasing emphasis on sex attraction is objectionable to some
and, possibly, harmful to others. 9. Although television may not
be introduced into New Zealand for some time, plans to cope with its
effects on children should be made well in advance of its introduction.

10. There should be a closer bond between school and home. The system of visiting teachers should
be expanded and as much liaison as possible established between them
and public health nurses.

11. The evidence that the propinquity of boys and girls at co-educational schools contributed to sexual
delinquency was not convincing. 12. The value of insisting upon all children remaining at school
till they are 15 years of age should be further investigated. When the underlying
cause for an application for exemption is misconduct, the exemption
should only be granted subject to supervision by a Child Welfare
Officer.

13. Whenever a pupil under the care or supervision of the Child Welfare
Division is enrolled at a school the principal should be informed
of any matters pertaining to the pupil which are within the knowledge
of that Division.

He should also be consulted as to any recommendation which it is proposed to make to the Court
in respect of any of his pupils. 14. The school is not the proper place for fully instructing
children about sex, although it may be a convenient place in which
mothers and daughters together, fathers and sons together, or parents
together, may listen to addresses or see appropriate films.

This would help to break down some of the barriers of self-consciousness.
15. In the new housing settlements the younger age groups predominate.
They are without the stabilizing influence of older people and established
institutions. 16. The work of all organizations which aim at building
character is warmly commended as they help to prevent children from
becoming delinquent; but facilities for recreation and entertainment
will not cure juvenile delinquency. 17. Liquor and gambling are symptomatic
of some homes where there is child neglect. The Committee deprecates the
growing practice of parents conniving at the consumption of liquor
at young people's parties.

18. Tension in the household, separation of the parents, lack of training for parenthood, the
absence of a parental sense of responsibility or poor discipline
all help to create an unsatisfactory home environment; the child of
such a home often feels unwanted or unloved.

This
unsatisfactory environment or feeling of being unloved is productive of much delinquency.
19.

Nearly one-third of the delinquent children whose cases were considered
came from homes where the mothers, possibly out of necessity, went out
to work.

Fathers themselves are also to blame when they neglect the opportunities available in the evenings
or at the weekends to interest themselves in the welfare of their
children.

20. The high wages paid to adolescents on leaving school are an important contributing factor especially
when those youths have not been trained in the virtues of thrift and self-reliance. 21. In
many of the cases investigated by the police the children have either
been ignorant of the functions of sex or have too advanced a knowledge
of its physical aspects.

When, how, and by whom the information should be given is very important.
22.

The present state of morals in the community has indicated the value of a religious faith, and of family
religion.

Encouragement should be given to the work of the New Zealand Council
of Christian Education.

23. There has been a decline in certain aspects of family life because of a failure to appreciate
the worth of religious and moral sanctions. 24. During the past forty
years new concepts have entered into society.

These
concepts resulted from the unsettlement following two world wars. The
changes were the increased use of contraceptives, the broadening of the
divorce laws, an increase in pre-marital sexual relations, and the
spread of new psychological ideas.

25.

The Committee is unanimously of the opinion that adolescents should
not buy or be in possession of contraceptives. There is, however, some
difference of opinion as to how this decision could be made effective.
26. The state of the law regarding indecent conduct on the part of boys and girls
operates very unfairly.

Boys who admit this offence are charged in the Children's Court under sections of the Crimes Act for breach
of which they are liable to terms of imprisonment of five to seven
years.

Their names and particulars of the offence are recorded in the Police Gazette. The girls (some
of whom may have incited the boys to offend) cannot be charged; if they are brought before
the Court at all, it is only when their parents are summoned for
having delinquent children and their names are not gazetted.

27.

       The Child Welfare Act should be broadened to provide for the doing of preventive
work. At present it provides only for the correction of children who
have committed offences or who are delinquents.

There are also grave weaknesses in this statute and in the whole procedure for dealing with offending
and delinquent children. XVIII. Recommendations= (1) Proposals for Legislation= (a) The definition
of "obscene" and "indecent" in the statute law relating to printed and published matter should
be enlarged so as to cover all productions which are harmful in that they place undue emphasis on sex, crime,
or horror.

(b) All distributors of books, magazines, and periodical (other than newspapers and educational
or scientific publications) should be required to register their
names and the names of their various publications.

If they offend against the proposed law regarding objectionable publications, their licences to
produce or distribute should be cancelled.

(c) A new offence should be created whereunder boys and girls who are guilty of indecent conduct
with one another should both be liable to be charged as delinquents
in the Children's Court and the practice of recording the names of
boys in the Police Gazette as having been summarily dealt with should
cease.

(d)
In all cases where children are summoned to Court their parents (if available)
should be required to attend with them.

(e) The Court should have the power to require the parent or guardian
of an offending or delinquent child to pay the fine or costs and to
give security for the future good behaviour of the child unless the
Court is satisfied that the conduct of the parent or guardian has
not conduced to the child's wrong doing.

(f) The Court should also be given power to direct that the children's benefit or family benefit
payable to any parent or guardian by the Social Security Commission be suspended until he gives
the security required by the Court or for such further or other period
as the Court may order.

The
material interests of the child should be preserved by enabling the Court to suspend the operation
of the order, or to cancel it upon being satisfied that the parent or guardian has given the required
security to exercise due care and control. And the
thought of him, and that it was within my choice to speak with him that night, had almost overcome
me.

"And where will my head be gone that I have not told my news!" she cried, and spoke of a letter
from her father, bearing that she might visit him to-morrow in the castle whither he was now
transferred, and that his affairs were mending. "You do not like to hear it," said she. "Will
you judge my father and not know him?"

"I am a thousand miles from judging," I replied. "And I give you my word I do rejoice to know
your heart is lightened. If my face fell at all, as I suppose it must, you will allow this
is rather an ill day for compositions, and the people in power extremely ill persons to be
compounding with. I have Symon Fraser extremely heavy on my stomach still."

"Ah!" she cried, "you will not be evening these two; and you should bear in mind that Prestongrange
and James More, my father, are of the one blood."

"I never heard tell of that," said I.

"It is rather singular how little you are acquainted with," said she. "One part may call themselves
Grant, and one Macgregor, but they are still of the same clan. They are all the sons of Alpin,
from whom, I think, our country has its name."

"What country is that?" I asked.

"My country and yours," said she.

"This is my day for discoveries, I think," said I, "for I always thought the name of it was
Scotland."

"Scotland is the name of what you call Ireland," she replied. "But the old ancient true name
of this place that we have our foot-soles on, and that our bones are made of, will be Alban.
It was Alban they called it when our forefathers will be fighting for it against Rome and Alexander;
and it is called so still in your own tongue that you forget."

"Troth," said I, "and that I never learned!" For I lacked heart to take her up about the Macedonian.

"But your fathers and mothers talked it, one generation with another," said she. "And it was
sung about the cradles before you or me were ever dreamed of; and your name remembers it still.
Ah, if you could talk that language you would find me another girl. The heart speaks in that
tongue."

I had a meal with the two ladies, all very good, served in fine old plate, and the wine excellent,
for it seems that Mrs. Ogilvy was rich. Our talk, too, was pleasant enough; but as soon as
I saw the sun decline sharply and the shadows to run out long, I rose to take my leave. For
my mind was now made up to say farewell to Alan; and it was needful I should see the trysting
wood, and reconnoitre it, by daylight. Catriona came with me as far as to the garden gate.

"It is long till I see you now?" she asked.

"It is beyond my judging," I replied. "It will be long, it may be never."

"It may be so," said she. "And you are sorry?"

I bowed my head, looking upon her.

"So am I, at all events," said she. "I have seen you but a small time, but I put you very high.
You are true, you are brave; in time I think you will be more of a man yet. I will be proud
to hear of that. If you should speed worse, if it will come to fall as we are afraid--O well!
think you have the one friend. Long after you are dead and me an old wife, I will be telling
the bairns about David Balfour, and my tears running. I will be telling how we parted, and
what I said to you, and did to you. God go with you and guide you, prays your little friend:
so I said--I will be telling them--and here is what I did."

She took up my hand and kissed it. This so surprised my spirits that I cried out like one hurt.
The colour came strong in her face, and she looked at me and nodded.

"O yes, Mr. David," said she, "that is what I think of you. The heart goes with the lips."

I could read in her face high spirit, and a chivalry like a brave child's; not anything besides.
She kissed my hand, as she had kissed Prince Charlie's, with a higher passion than the common
kind of clay has any sense of. Nothing before had taught me how deep I was her lover, nor how
far I had yet to climb to make her think of me in such a character. Yet I could tell myself
I had advanced some way, and that her heart had beat and her blood flowed at thoughts of me.

After that honour she had done me I could offer no more trivial civility. It was even hard
for me to speak; a certain lifting in her voice had knocked directly at the door of my own tears.

"I praise God for your kindness, dear," said I. "Farewell, my little friend!" giving her that
name which she had given to herself; with which I bowed and left her.

My way was down the glen of the Leith River, towards Stockbridge and Silvermills. A path led
in the foot of it, the water bickered and sang in the midst; the sunbeams overhead struck out
of the west among long shadows and (as the valley turned) made like a new scene and a new world
of it at every corner. With Catriona behind and Alan before me, I was like one lifted up. The
place besides, and the hour, and the talking of the water, infinitely pleased me; and I lingered
in my steps and looked before and behind me as I went. This was the cause, under providence,
that I spied a little in my rear a red head among some bushes.

Anger sprang in my heart, and I turned straight about and walked at a stiff pace to where I
came from. The path lay close by the bushes where I had remarked the head. The cover came to
the wayside, and as I passed I was all strung up to meet and to resist an onfall. No such thing
befell, I went by unmeddled with; and at that fear increased upon me. It was still day indeed,
but the place exceeding solitary. If my haunters had let slip that fair occasion I could but
judge they aimed at something more than David Balfour. The lives of Alan and James weighed
upon my spirit with the weight of two grown bullocks.

Catriona was yet in the garden walking by herself.

"Catriona," said I, "you see me back again."

"With a changed face," said she.

"I carry two men's lives besides my own," said I. "It would be a sin and a shame not to walk
carefully. I was doubtful whether I did right to come here. I would like it ill, if it was
by that means we were brought to harm."

"I could tell you one that would be liking it less, and will like little enough to hear you
talking at this very same time," she cried. "What have I done, at all events?"

"O, you! you are not alone," I replied. "But since I went off I have been dogged again, and
I can give you the name of him that follows me. It is Neil, son of Duncan, your man or your
father's."

"To be sure you are mistaken there," she said, with a white face. "Neil is in Edinburgh on
errands from my father."

"It is what I fear," said I, "the last of it. But for his being in Edinburgh I think I can
show you another of that. For sure you have some signal, a signal of need, such as would bring
him to your help, if he was anywhere within the reach of ears and legs?"

"Why, how will you know that?" says she.

"By means of a magical talisman God gave to me when I was born, and the name they call it by
is Common-sense," said I. "Oblige me so far as to make your signal, and I will show you the
red head of Neil."

No doubt but I spoke bitter and sharp. My heart was bitter. I blamed myself and the girl and
hated both of us: her for the vile crew that she was come of, myself for my wanton folly to
have stuck my head in such a byke of wasps.

Catriona set her fingers to her lips and whistled once, with an exceeding clear, strong, mounting
note, as full as a ploughman's. A while we stood silent; and I was about to ask her to repeat
the same, when I heard the sound of some one bursting through the bushes below on the braeside.
I pointed in that direction with a smile, and presently Neil leaped into the garden. His eyes
burned, and he had a black knife (as they call it on the Highland side) naked in his hand;
but, seeing me beside his mistress, stood like a man struck.

"He has come to your call," said I; "judge how near he was to Edinburgh, or what was the nature
of your father's errands. Ask himself. If I am to lose my life, or the lives of those that
hang by me, through the means of your clan, let me go where I have to go with my eyes open."

She addressed him tremulously in the Gaelic. Remembering Alan's anxious civility in that particular,
I could have laughed out loud for bitterness; here, sure, in the midst of these suspicions,
was the hour she should have stuck by English.

Twice or thrice they spoke together, and I could make out that Neil (for all his obsequiousness)
was an angry man.

Then she turned to me. "He swears it is not," she said.

"Catriona," said I, "do you believe the man yourself?"

She made a gesture like wringing the hands.

"How will I can know?" she cried.

"But I must find some means to know," said I. "I cannot continue to go dovering round in the
black night with two men's lives at my girdle! Catriona, try to put yourself in my place, as
I vow to God I try hard to put myself in yours. This is no kind of talk that should ever have
fallen between me and you; no kind of talk; my heart is sick with it. See, keep him here till
two of the morning, and I care not. Try him with that."

They spoke together once more in the Gaelic.

"He says he has James More my father's errand," said she. She was whiter than ever, and her
voice faltered as she said it.

"It is pretty plain now," said I, "and may God forgive the wicked!"

She said never anything to that, but continued gazing at me with the same white face.

"This is a fine business," said I again. "Am I to fall, then, and those two along with me?"

"O, what am I to do?" she cried. "Could I go against my father's orders, and him in prison,
in the danger of his life?"

"But perhaps we go too fast," said I. "This may be a lie too. He may have no right orders;
all may be contrived by Symon, and your father knowing nothing."

She burst out weeping between the pair of us; and my heart smote me hard, for I thought this
girl was in a dreadful situation.

"Here," said I, "keep him but the one hour; and I'll chance it, and say God bless you."

She put out her hand to me. "I will be needing one good word," she sobbed.

"The full hour, then?" said I, keeping her hand in mine. "Three lives of it, my lass!"

"The full hour!" she said, and cried aloud on her Redeemer to forgive her.

I thought it no fit place for me, and fled.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XI

THE WOOD BY SILVERMILLS

I lost no time, but down through the valley and by Stockbrig and Silvermills as hard as I could
stave. It was Alan's tryst to lie every night between twelve and two "in a bit scrog of wood
by east of Silvermills and by south the south mill-lade." This I found easy enough, where it
grew on a steep brae, with the mill-lade flowing swift and deep along the foot of it; and here
I began to walk slower and to reflect more reasonably on my employment. I saw I had made but
a fool's bargain with Catriona. It was not to be supposed that Neil was sent alone upon his
errand, but perhaps he was the only man belonging to James More; in which case, I should have
done all I could to hang Catriona's father, and nothing the least material to help myself.
To tell the truth, I fancied neither one of these ideas. Suppose, by holding back Neil, the
girl should have helped to hang her father, I thought she would never forgive herself this
side of time. And suppose there were others pursuing me that moment, what kind of a gift was
I come bringing to Alan? and how would I like that?

I was up with the west end of that wood when these two considerations struck me like a cudgel.
My feet stopped of themselves and my heart along with them. "What wild game is this that I
have been playing?" thought I; and turned instantly upon my heels to go elsewhere.

This brought my face to Silvermills; the path came past the village with a crook, but all plainly
visible; and, Highland or Lowland, there was nobody stirring. Here was my advantage, here was
just such a conjuncture as Stewart had counselled me to profit by, and I ran by the side of
the mill-lade, fetched about beyond the east corner of the wood, threaded through the midst
of it, and returned to the west selvage, whence I could again command the path, and yet be
myself unseen. Again it was all empty, and my heart began to rise.

For more than an hour I sat close in the border of the trees, and no hare or eagle could have
kept a more particular watch. When that hour began the sun was already set, but the sky still
all golden and the daylight clear; before the hour was done it had fallen to be half mirk,
the images and distances of things were mingled, and observation began to be difficult. All
that time not a foot of man had come east from Silvermills, and the few that had gone west
were honest countryfolk and their wives upon the road to bed. If I were tracked by the most
cunning spies in Europe, I judged it was beyond the course of nature they could have any jealousy
of where I was; and going a little further home into the wood I lay down to wait for Alan.

The strain of my attention had been great, for I had watched not the path only, but every bush
and field within my vision. That was now at an end. The moon, which was in her first quarter,
glinted a little in the wood; all round there was a stillness of the country; and as I lay
there on my back, the next three or four hours, I had a fine occasion to review my conduct.

Two things became plain to me first: that I had had no right to go that day to Dean, and (having
gone there) had now no right to be lying where I was. This (where Alan was to come) was just
the one wood in all broad Scotland that was, by every proper feeling, closed against me; I
admitted that, and yet stayed on, wondering at myself. I thought of the measure with which
I had meted to Catriona that same night; how I had prated of the two lives I carried, and had
thus forced her to enjeopardy her father's; and how I was here exposing them again, it seemed
in wantonness. A good conscience is eight parts of courage. No sooner had I lost conceit of
my behaviour, than I seemed to stand disarmed amidst a throng of terrors. Of a sudden I sat
up. How if I went now to Prestongrange, caught him (as I still easily might) before he slept,
and made a full submission? Who could blame me? Not Stewart the writer; I had but to say that
I was followed, despaired of getting clear, and so gave in. Not Catriona: here, too, I had
my answer ready; that I could not bear she should expose her father. So, in a moment, I could
lay all these troubles by, which were after all and truly none of mine; swim clear of the Appin
murder; get forth out of handstroke of all the Stewarts and Campbells, all the whigs and tories,
in the land; and live thenceforth to my own mind, and be able to enjoy and to improve my fortunes,
and devote some hours of my youth to courting Catriona, which would be surely a more suitable
occupation than to hide and run and be followed like a hunted thief, and begin over again the
dreadful miseries of my escape with Alan.

At first I thought no shame of this capitulation; I was only amazed I had not thought upon
the thing and done it earlier; and began to inquire into the causes of the change. These I
traced to my lowness of spirits, that back to my late recklessness, and that again to the common,
old, public, disconsidered sin of self-indulgence. Instantly the text came in my head, "How
can Satan cast out Satan?" What? (I thought) I had, by self-indulgence, and the following of
pleasant paths, and the lure of a young maid, cast myself wholly out of conceit with my own
character, and jeopardised the lives of James and Alan? And I was to seek the way out by the
same road as I had entered in? No; the hurt that had been caused by self-indulgence must be
cured by self-denial; the flesh I had pampered must be crucified. I looked about me for that
course which I least liked to follow: this was to leave the wood without waiting to see Alan,
and go forth again alone, in the dark and in the midst of my perplexed and dangerous fortunes.

I have been the more careful to narrate this passage of my reflections, because I think it
is of some utility, and may serve as an example to young men. But there is reason (they say)
in planting kale, and even in ethic and religion, room for common sense. It was already close
on Alan's hour, and the moon was down. If I left (as I could not very decently whistle to my
spies to follow me) they might miss me in the dark and tack themselves to Alan by mistake.
If I stayed, I could at the least of it set my friend upon his guard which might prove his
mere salvation. I had adventured other peoples' safety in a course of self-indulgence; to have
endangered them again, and now on a mere design of penance, would have been scarce rational.
Accordingly, I had scarce risen from my place ere I sat down again, but already in a different
frame of spirits, and equally marvelling at my past weakness and rejoicing in my present composure.

Presently after came a crackling in the thicket. Putting my mouth near down to the ground,
I whistled a note or two of Alan's air; an answer came, in the like guarded tone, and soon
we had thralled together in the dark.

"Is this you at last, Davie?" he whispered.

"Just myself," said I.

"God, man, but I've been wearying to see ye!" says he. "I've had the longest kind of a time.
A' day, I've had my dwelling into the inside of a stack of hay, where I couldnae see the nebs
of my ten fingers; and then two hours of it waiting here for you, and you never coming! Dod,
and ye're none too soon the way it is, with me to sail the morn! The morn? what am I saying?--the
day, I mean."

"Ay, Alan, man, the day, sure enough," said I. "It's past twelve now, surely, and ye sail the
day. This'll be a long road you have before you."

"We'll have a long crack of it first," said he.

"Well, indeed, and I have a good deal it will be telling you to hear," said I.

And I told him what behooved, making rather a jumble of it, but clear enough when done. He
heard me out with very few questions, laughing here and there like a man delighted: and the
sound of his laughing (above all there, in the dark, where neither one of us could see the
other) was extraordinary friendly to my heart.

"Ay, Davie, ye're a queer character," says he, when I had done: "a queer bitch after a', and
I have no mind of meeting with the like of ye. As for your story, Prestongrange is a Whig like
yoursel', so I'll say the less of him; and, dod! I believe he was the best friend ye had, if
ye could only trust him. But Symon Fraser and James More are my ain kind of cattle, and I'll
give them the name that they deserve. The muckle black de'il was father to the Frasers, a'body
kens that; and as for the Gregara, I never could abye the reek of them since I could stotter
on two feet. I bloodied the nose of one, I mind, when I was still so wambly on my legs that
I cowped upon the top of him. A proud man was my father that day, God rest him! and I think
he had the cause. I'll never can deny but what Robin was something of a piper," he added; "but
as for James More, the de'il guide him for me!"

"One thing we have to consider," said I. "Was Charles Stewart right or wrong? Is it only me
they're after, or the pair of us?"

"And what's your ain opinion, you that's a man of so much experience?" said he.

"It passes me," said I.

"And me too," says Alan. "Do ye think this lass would keep her word to ye?" he asked.

"I do that," said I.

"Well, there's nae telling," said he. "And anyway, that's over and done: he'll be joined to
the rest of them lang syne."

"How many would ye think there would be of them?" I asked.

"That depends," said Alan. "If it was only you, they would likely send two-three lively, brisk
young birkies, and if they thought that I was to appear in the employ, I daresay ten or twelve,"
said he.

It was no use, I gave a little crack of laughter.

"And I think your own two eyes will have seen me drive that number, or the double of it, nearer
hand!" cries he.

"It matters the less," said I, "because I am well rid of them for this time."

"Nae doubt that's your opinion," said he; "but I wouldnae be the least surprised if they were
hunkering this wood. Ye see, David man, they'll be Hieland folk. There'll be some Frasers,
I'm thinking, and some of the Gregara; and I would never deny but what the both of them, and
the Gregara in especial, were clever experienced persons. A man kens little till he's driven
a spreagh of neat cattle (say) ten miles through a throng lowland country and the black soldiers
maybe at his tail. It's there that I learned a great part of my penetration. And ye need nae
tell me: it's better than war; which is the next best, however, though generally rather a bauchle
of a business. Now the Gregara have had grand practice."

"No doubt that's a branch of education that was left out with me," said I.

"And I can see the marks of it upon ye constantly," said Alan. "But that's the strange thing
about you folk of the college learning: ye're ignorant, and ye cannae see 't. Wae's me for
my Greek and Hebrew; but, man, I ken that I dinnae ken them--there's the differ of it. Now,
here's you. Ye lie on your wame a bittie in the bield of this wood, and ye tell me that ye've
cuist off these Frasers and Macgregors. Why! Because I couldnae see them, says you. Ye blockhead,
that's their livelihood."

"Take the worst of it," said I, "and what are we to do?"

"I am thinking of that same," said he. "We might twine. It wouldnae be greatly to my taste;
and forbye that, I see reasons against it. First, it's now unco dark, and it's just humanly
possible we might give them the clean slip. If we keep together, we make but the ae line of
it; if we gang separate, we make twae of them: the more likelihood to stave in upon some of
these gentry of yours. And then, second, if they keep the track of us, it may come to a fecht
for it yet, Davie; and then, I'll confess I would be blythe to have you at my oxter, and I
think you would be none the worse of having me at yours. So, by my way of it, we should creep
out of this wood no further gone than just the inside of next minute, and hold away east for
Gillane, where I'm to find my ship. It'll be like old days while it lasts, Davie; and (come
the time) we'll have to think what you should be doing. I'm wae to leave ye here, wanting me."

"Have with ye, then!" says I. "Do ye gang back where you were stopping."

"De'il a fear!" said Alan. "They were good folks to me, but I think they would be a good deal
disappointed if they saw my bonny face again. For (the way times go) I amnae just what ye could
call a Walcome Guest. Which makes me the keener for your company, Mr. David Balfour of the
Shaws, and set ye up! For, leave aside twa cracks here in the wood with Charlie Stewart, I
have scarce said black or white since the day we parted at Corstorphine."

With which he rose from his place, and we began to move quietly eastward through the wood.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XII

ON THE MARCH AGAIN WITH ALAN

It was likely between one and two; the moon (as I have said) was down; a strongish wind, carrying
a heavy wrack of cloud, had set in suddenly from the west; and we began our movement in as
black a night as ever a fugitive or a murderer wanted. The whiteness of the path guided us
into the sleeping town of Broughton, thence through Picardy, and beside my old acquaintance
the gibbet of the two thieves. A little beyond we made a useful beacon, which was a light in
an upper window of Lochend. Steering by this, but a good deal at random, and with some trampling
of the harvest, and stumbling and falling down upon the banks, we made our way across country,
and won forth at last upon the linky, boggy muirland that they call the Figgate Whins. Here,
under a bush of whin, we lay down the remainder of that night and slumbered.

The day called us about five. A beautiful morning it was, the high westerly wind still blowing
strong, but the clouds all blown away to Europe. Alan was already sitting up and smiling to
himself. It was my first sight of my friend since we were parted, and I looked upon him with
enjoyment. He had still the same big great-coat on his back; but (what was new) he had now
a pair of knitted boot-hose drawn above the knee. Doubtless these were intended for disguise;
but, as the day promised to be warm, he made a most unseasonable figure.

"Well, Davie," said he, "is this no a bonny morning? Here is a day that looks the way that
a day ought to. This is a great change of it from the belly of my haystack; and while you were
there sottering and sleeping I have done a thing that maybe I do over seldom."

"And what was that?" said I.

"O, just said my prayers," said he.

"And where are my gentry, as ye call them?" I asked.

"Gude kens," says he; "and the short and the long of it is that we must take our chance of
them. Up with your foot-soles, Davie! Forth, Fortune, once again of it! And a bonny walk we
are like to have."

So we went east by the beach of the sea, towards where the salt-pans were smoking in by the
Esk mouth. No doubt there was a by-ordinary bonny blink of morning sun on Arthur's Seat and
the green Pentlands; and the pleasantness of the day appeared to set Alan among nettles.

"I feel like a gomeral," says he, "to be leaving Scotland on a day like this. It sticks in
my head; I would maybe like it better to stay here and hing."

"Ay, but ye wouldnae, Alan," said I.

"No but what France is a good place too," he explained; "but it's some way no the same. It's
brawer, I believe, but it's no Scotland. I like it fine when I'm there, man; yet I kind of
weary for Scots divots and the Scots peat-reek."

"If that's all you have to complain of, Alan, it's no such great affair," said I.

"And it sets me ill to be complaining, whatever," said he, "and me but new out of yon de'il's
haystack."

"And so you were unco' weary of your haystack?" I asked.

"Weary's nae word for it," said he. "I'm not just precisely a man that's easily cast down;
but I do better with caller air and the lift above my head. I'm like the auld Black Douglas
(wasnae't?) that likit better to hear the laverock sing than the mouse cheep. And yon place,
ye see, Davie--whilk was a very suitable place to hide in, as I'm free to own--was pit mirk
from dawn to gloaming. There were days (or nights, for how would I tell one from other?) that
seemed to me as long as a long winter."

"How did you know the hour to bide your tryst?" I asked.

"The goodman brought me my meat and a drop brandy, and a candle-dowp to eat it by, about eleeven,"
said he. "So, when I had swallowed a bit, it would be time to be getting to the wood. There
I lay and wearied for ye sore, Davie," says he, laying his hand on my shoulder, "and guessed
when the two hours would be about by--unless Charlie Stewart would come and tell me on his
watch--and then back to the dooms haystack. Na, it was a driech employ, and praise the Lord
that I have warstled through with it!"

"What did you do with yourself?" I asked.

"Faith," said he, "the best I could! Whiles I played at the knucklebones. I'm an extraordinar
good hand at the knucklebones, but it's a poor piece of business playing with naebody to admire
ye. And whiles I would make songs."

"What were they about?" says I.

"O, about the deer and the heather," says he, "and about the ancient old chiefs that are all
by with it long syne, and just about what songs are about in general. And then whiles I would
make believe I had a set of pipes and I was playing. I played some grand springs, and I thought
I played them awful bonny; I vow whiles that I could hear the squeal of them! But the great
affair is that it's done with."

With that he carried me again to my adventures, which he heard all over again with more particularity,
and extraordinary approval, swearing at intervals that I was "a queer character of a callant."

"So ye were frich'ened of Sym Fraser?" he asked once.

"In troth was I!" cried I.

"So would I have been, Davie," said he. "And that is indeed a dreidful man. But it is only
proper to give the de'il his due; and I can tell you he is a most respectable person on the
field of war."

"Is he so brave?" I asked.

"Brave!" said he. "He is as brave as my steel sword."

The story of my duel set him beside himself.

"To think of that!" he cried. "I showed ye the trick in Corrynakiegh too. And three times--three
times disarmed! It's a disgrace upon my character that learned ye! Here, stand up, out with
your airn; ye shall walk no step beyond this place upon the road till ye can do yoursel' and
me mair credit."

"Alan," said I, "this is midsummer madness. Here is no time for fencing lessons."

"I cannae well say no to that," he admitted. "But three times, man! And you standing there
like a straw bogle and rinning to fetch your ain sword like a doggie with a pocket-napkin!
David, this man Duncansby must be something altogether by-ordinar! He maun be extraordinar
skilly. If I had the time, I would gang straight back and try a turn at him mysel'. The man
must be a provost."

"You silly fellow," said I, "you forget it was just me."

"Na," said he, "but three times!"

"When ye ken yourself that I am fair incompetent," I cried.

"Well, I never heard tell the equal of it," said he.

"I promise you the one thing, Alan," said I. "The next time that we forgather, I'll be better
learned. You shall not continue to bear the disgrace of a friend that cannot strike."

"Ay, the next time!" says he. "And when will that be, I would like to ken?"

"Well, Alan, I have had some thoughts of that, too," said I; "and my plan is this. It's my
opinion to be called an advocate."

"That's but a weary trade, Davie," says Alan, "and rather a blagyard one forby. Ye would be
better in a king's coat than that."

"And no doubt that would be the way to have us meet," cried I. "But as you'll be in King Lewie's
coat, and I'll be in King Geordie's, we'll have a dainty meeting of it."

"There's some sense in that," he admitted.

"An advocate, then, it'll have to be," I continued, "and I think it a more suitable trade for
a gentleman that was three times disarmed. But the beauty of the thing is this: that one of
the best colleges for that kind of learning--and the one where my kinsman, Pilrig, made his
studies--is the college of Leyden in Holland. Now, what say you, Alan? Could not a cadet of
Royal Ecossais get a furlough, slip over the marches, and call in upon a Leyden student!"

"Well, and I would think he could!" cried he. "Ye see, I stand well in with my colonel, Count
Drummond-Melfort; and, what's mair to the purpose, I have a cousin of mine lieutenant-colonel
in a regiment of the Scots-Dutch. Naething could be mair proper than what I would get a leave
to see Lieutenant-Colonel Stewart of Halkett's. And Lord Melfort, who is a very scienteefic
kind of a man, and writes books like Cæsar, would be doubtless very pleased to have the advantage
of my observes."

"Is Lord Melfort an author, then?" I asked, for much as Alan thought of soldiers, I thought
more of the gentry that write books.

"The very same, Davie," said he. "One would think a colonel would have something better to
attend to. But what can I say that make songs?"

"Well, then," said I, "it only remains you should give me an address to write you at in France;
and as soon as I am got to Leyden I will send you mine."

"The best will be to write me in the care of my chieftain," said he, "Charles Stewart, of Ardsheil,
Esquire, at the town of Melons, in the Isle of France. It might take long, or it might take
short, but it would aye get to my hands at the last of it."

We had a haddock to our breakfast in Musselburgh, where it amused me vastly to hear Alan. His
great-coat and boot-hose were extremely remarkable this warm morning, and perhaps some hint
of an explanation had been wise; but Alan went into that matter like a business, or I should
rather say, like a diversion. He engaged the goodwife of the house with some compliments upon
the rizzoring of our haddocks; and the whole of the rest of our stay held her in talk about
a cold he had taken on his stomach, gravely relating all manner of symptoms and sufferings,
and hearing with a vast show of interest all the old wives' remedies she could supply him with
in return.

We left Musselburgh before the first ninepenny coach was due from Edinburgh, for (as Alan said)
that was a rencounter we might very well avoid. The wind, although still high, was very mild,
the sun shone strong, and Alan began to suffer in proportion. From Prestonpans he had me aside
to the field of Gladsmuir, where he exerted himself a great deal more than needful to describe
the stages of the battle. Thence, at his old round pace, we travelled to Cockenzie. Though
they were building herring-busses there at Mrs. Cadell's, it seemed a desert-like, back-going
town, about half full of ruined houses; but the ale-house was clean, and Alan, who was now
in a glowing heat, must indulge himself with a bottle of ale, and carry on to the new luckie
with the old story of the cold upon his stomach, only now the symptoms were all different.

I sat listening; and it came in my mind that I had scarce ever heard him address three serious
words to any woman, but he was always drolling and fleering and making a private mock of them,
and yet brought to that business a remarkable degree of energy and interest. Something to this
effect I remarked to him, when the good wife (as chanced) was called away.

"What do ye want?" says he. "A man should aye put his best foot forrit with the womenkind;
he should aye give them a bit of a story to divert them, the poor lambs! It's what ye should
learn to attend to, David; ye should get the principles, it's like a trade. Now, if this had
been a young lassie, or onyways bonnie, she would never have heard tell of my stomach, Davie.
But aince they're too old to be seeking joes, they a' set up to be apotecaries. Why? What do
I ken? They'll be just the way God made them, I suppose. But I think a man would be a gomeral
that didnae give his attention to the same."

And here, the luckie coming back, he turned from me as if with impatience to renew their former
conversation. The lady had branched some while before from Alan's stomach to the case of a
goodbrother of her own in Aberlady, whose last sickness and demise she was describing at extraordinary
length. Sometimes it was merely dull, sometimes both dull and awful, for she talked with unction.
The upshot was that I fell in a deep muse, looking forth of the window on the road, and scarce
marking what I saw. Presently had any been looking they might have seen me to start.

"We pit a fomentation to his feet," the goodwife was saying, "and a het stane to his wame,
and we gied him hyssop and water of pennyroyal, and fine, clean balsam of sulphur for the hoast...."

"Sir," says I, cutting very quietly in, "there's a friend of mine gone by the house."

"Is that e'en sae?" replies Alan, as though it were a thing of small-account. And then, "Ye
were saying, mem?" says he; and the wearyful wife went on.

Presently, however, he paid her with a half-crown piece, and she must go forth after the change.

"Was it him with the red head?" asked Alan.

"Ye have it," said I.

"What did I tell you in the wood?" he cried. "And yet it's strange he should be here too! Was
he his lane?"

"His lee-lane for what I could see," said I.

"Did he gang by?" he asked.

"Straight by," said I, "and looked neither to the right nor left."

"And that's queerer yet," said Alan. "It sticks in my mind, Davie, that we should be stirring.
But where to?--deil hae't! This is like old days fairly," cries he.

"There is one big differ, though," said I, "that now we have money in our pockets."

"And another big differ, Mr. Balfour," says he, "that now we have dogs at our tail. They're
on the scent; they're in full cry, David. It's a bad business and be damned to it." And he
sat thinking hard with a look of his that I knew well.

"I'm saying, Luckie," says he, when the goodwife returned, "have ye a back road out of this
change house?"

She told him there was and where it led to.

"Then, sir," says he to me, "I think that will be the shortest road for us. And here's good-bye
to ye, my braw woman; and I'll no forget thon of the cinnamon water."

We went out by way of the woman's kale yard, and up a lane among fields. Alan looked sharply
to all sides, and seeing we were in a little hollow place of the country, out of view of men,
sat down.

"Now for a council of war, Davie," said he. "But first of all, a bit lesson to ye. Suppose
that I had been like you, what would yon old wife have minded of the pair of us? Just that
we had gone out by the back gate. And what does she mind now? A fine, canty, friendly, cracky
man, that suffered with the stomach, poor body! and was real ta'en up about the goodbrother.
O man, David, try and learn to have some kind of intelligence!"

"I'll try, Alan," said I.

"And now for him of the red head," says he; "was he gaun fast or slow?"

"Betwixt and between," said I.

"No kind of a hurry about the man?" he asked.

"Never a sign of it," said I.

"Nhm!" said Alan, "it looks queer. We saw nothing of them this morning on the Whins; he's passed
us by, he doesnae seem to be looking, and yet here he is on our road! Dod, Davie, I begin to
take a notion. I think it's no you they're seeking, I think it's me; and I think they ken fine
where they're gaun."

"They ken?" I asked.

"I think Andie Scougal's sold me--him or his mate wha kent some part of the affair--or else
Chairlie's clerk callant, which would be a pity too," says Alan; "and if you askit me for just
my inward private conviction, I think there'll be heads cracked on Gillane sands."

"Alan," I cried, "if you're at all right there'll be folk there and to spare. It'll be small
service to crack heads."

"It would aye be a satisfaction though," says Alan. "But bide a bit, bide a bit; I'm thinking--and
thanks to this bonny westland wind, I believe I've still a chance of it. It's this way, Davie.
I'm no trysted with this man Scougal till the gloaming comes. But," says he, "if I can get
a bit of a wind out of the west I'll be there long or that," he says, "and lie-to for ye behind
the Isle of Fidra. Now if your gentry kens the place, they ken the time forbye. Do ye see me
coming, Davie? Thanks to Johnnie Cope and other red-coat gomerals, I should ken this country
like the back of my hand; and if ye're ready for another bit run with Alan Breck, we'll can
cast back inshore, and come down to the seaside again by Dirleton. If the ship's there, we'll
try and get on board of her. If she's no there, I'll just have to get back to my weary haystack.
But either way of it, I think we will leave your gentry whistling on their thumbs."

"I believe there's some chance in it," said I. "Have on with ye, Alan!"

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XIII

GILLANE SANDS

I did not profit by Alan's pilotage as he had done by his marchings under General Cope; for
I can scarce tell what way we went. It is my excuse that we travelled exceeding fast. Some
part we ran, some trotted, and the rest walked at a vengeance of a pace. Twice, while we were
at top speed, we ran against country-folk; but though we plumped into the first from round
a corner, Alan was as ready as a loaded musket.

"Hae ye seen my horse?" he gasped.

"Na, man, I haenae seen nae horse the day," replied the countryman.

And Alan spared the time to explain to him that we were travelling "ride and tie"; that our
charger had escaped, and it was feared he had gone home to Linton. Not only that, but he expended
some breath (of which he had not very much left) to curse his own misfortune and my stupidity
which was said to be its cause.

"Them that cannae tell the truth," he observed to myself as we went on again, "should be aye
mindfu' to leave an honest, handy lee behind them.

As we had first made inland, so our road came in the end to lie very near due north; the old
Kirk of Aberlady for a landmark on the left; on the right, the top of the Berwick Law; and
it was thus we struck the shore again, not far from Dirleton. From North Berwick west to Gillane
Ness there runs a string of four small islets, Craiglieth, the Lamb, Fidra, and Eyebrough,
notable by their diversity of size and shape. Fidra is the most particular, being a strange
grey islet of two humps, made the more conspicuous by a piece of ruin; and I mind that (as
we drew closer to it) by some door or window of these ruins the sea peeped through like a man's
eye. Under the lee of Fidra there is a good anchorage in westerly winds, and there, from a
far way off, we could see the Thistle riding.

The shore in face of these islets is altogether waste. Here is no dwelling of man, and scarce
any passage, or at most of vagabond children running at their play. Gillane is a small place
on the far side of the Ness, the folk of Dirleton go to their business in the inland fields,
and those of North Berwick straight to the sea-fishing from their haven; so that few parts
of the coast are lonelier. But I mind, as we crawled upon our bellies into that multiplicity
of heights and hollows, keeping a bright eye upon all sides, and our hearts hammering at our
ribs, there was such a shining of the sun and the sea, such a stir of the wind in the bent
grass, and such a bustle of down-popping rabbits and up-flying gulls, that the desert seemed
to me like a place alive. No doubt it was in all ways well chosen for a secret embarcation,
if the secret had been kept; and even now that it was out, and the place watched, we were able
to creep unperceived to the front of the sandhills, where they look down immediately on the
beach and sea.

But here Alan came to a full stop.

"Davie," said he, "this is a kittle passage! As long as we lie here we're safe; but I'm nane
sae muckle nearer to my ship or the coast of France. And as soon as we stand up and signal
the brig, it's another matter. For where will your gentry be, think ye?"

"Maybe they're no come yet," said I. "And even if they are, there's one clear matter in our
favour. They'll be all arranged to take us, that's true. But they'll have arranged for our
coming from the east, and here we are upon their west."

"Ay," says Alan, "I wish we were in some force, and this was a battle, we would have bonnily
out-manoeuvred them! But it isnae, Davit; and the way it is, is a wee thing less inspiring
to Alan Breck. I swither, Davie."

"Time flies, Alan," said I.

"I ken that," said Alan. "I ken naething else, as the French folk say. But this is a dreidful
case of heids or tails. O! if I could but ken where your gentry were!"

"Alan," said I, "this is no like you. It's got to be now or never."

    "This is no me, quo' he,"

sang Alan, with a queer face betwixt shame and drollery.

    "Neither you nor me, quo' he, neither you nor me,
    Wow, na, Johnnie man! neither you nor me."

And then of a sudden he stood straight up where he was, and with a handkerchief flying in his
right hand, marched down upon the beach. I stood up myself, but lingered behind him, scanning
the sandhills to the east. His appearance was at first unremarked: Scougal not expecting him
so early, and my gentry watching on the other side. Then they awoke on board the Thistle, and
it seemed they had all in readiness, for there was scarce a second's bustle on the deck before
we saw a skiff put round her stern and begin to pull lively for the coast. Almost at the same
moment of time, and perhaps half a mile away towards Gillane Ness, the figure of a man appeared
for a blink upon a sandhill, waving with his arms; and though he was gone again in the same
flash, the gulls in that part continued a little longer to fly wild.

Alan had not seen this, looking straight to seaward at the ship and skiff.

"It maun be as it will!" said he, when I had told him. "Weel may yon boatie row, or my craig'll
have to thole a raxing."

That part of the beach was long and flat, and excellent walking when the tide was down; a little
cressy burn flowed over it in one place to the sea; and the sandhills ran along the head of
it like the rampart of a town. No eye of ours could spy what was passing behind there in the
bents, no hurry of ours could mend the speed of the boat's coming: time stood still with us
through that uncanny period of waiting.

"There is one thing I would like to ken," says Alan. "I would like fine to ken these gentry's
orders. We're worth four hunner pound the pair of us: how if they took the guns to us, Davie?
They would get a bonny shot from the top of that lang sandy bank."

"Morally impossible," said I. "The point is that they can have no guns. This thing has been
gone about too secret; pistols they may have, but never guns."

"I believe ye'll be in the right," says Alan. "For all which I am wearying a good deal for
yon boat."

And he snapped his fingers and whistled to it like a dog.

It was now perhaps a third of the way in, and we ourselves already hard on the margin of the
sea, so that the soft sand rose over my shoes. There was no more to do whatever but to wait,
to look as much as we were able at the creeping nearer of the boat, and as little as we could
manage at the long impenetrable front of the sandhills, over which the gulls twinkled and behind
which our enemies were doubtless marshalling.

"This is a fine, bright, caller place to get shot in," says Alan, suddenly; "and, man, I wish
that I had your courage!"

"Alan!" I cried, "what kind of talk is this of it? You're just made of courage; it's the character
of the man, as I could prove myself if there was nobody else."

"And you would be the more mistaken," said he. "What makes the differ with me is just my great
penetration and knowledge of affairs. But for auld, cauld, dour, deidly courage, I am not fit
to hold a candle to yourself. Look at us two here upon the sands. Here am I, fair hotching
to be off; here's you (for all that I ken) in two minds of it whether you'll no stop. Do you
think that I could do that, or would? No me! Firstly, because I havenae got the courage and
wouldnae daur; and secondly, because I am a man of so much penetration and would see ye damned
first."

"It's there ye're coming, is it?" I cried. "Ah, man Alan, you can wile your old wives, but
you never can wile me."

Remembrance of my temptation in the wood made me strong as iron.

"I have a tryst to keep," I continued. "I am trysted with your cousin Charlie; I have passed
my word."

"Braw trysts that you'll can keep," said Alan. "Ye'll just mistryst aince and for a' with the
gentry in the bents. And what for?" he went on with an extreme threatening gravity. "Just tell
me that, my mannie! Are ye to be speerited away like Lady Grange? Are they to drive a dirk
in your inside and bury ye in the bents? Or is it to be the other way, and are they to bring
ye in with James? Are they folk to be trustit? Would ye stick your head in the mouth of Sim
Fraser and the ither Whigs?" he added with extraordinary bitterness.

"Alan," cried I, "they're all rogues and liars, and I'm with ye there. The more reason there
should be one decent man in such a land of thieves! My word is passed, and I'll stick to it.
I said long syne to your kinswoman that I would stumble at no risk. Do ye mind of that?--the
night Red Colin fell, it was. No more I will, then. Here I stop. Prestongrange promised me
my life; if he's to be mansworn, here I'll have to die."

"Aweel, aweel," said Alan.

All this time we had seen or heard no more of our pursuers. In truth we had caught them unawares;
their whole party (as I was to learn afterwards) had not yet reached the scene; what there
was of them was spread among the bents towards Gillane. It was quite an affair to call them
in and bring them over, and the boat was making speed. They were besides but cowardly fellows:
a mere leash of Highland cattle thieves, of several clans, no gentleman there to be the captain:
and the more they looked at Alan and me upon the beach, the less (I must suppose) they liked
the looks of us.

Whoever had betrayed Alan it was not the captain: he was in the skiff himself, steering and
stirring up his oarsmen, like a man with his heart in his employ. Already he was near in, and
the boat scouring--already Alan's face had flamed crimson with the excitement of his deliverance,
when our friends in the bents, either in despair to see their prey escape them or with some
hope of scaring Andie, raised suddenly a shrill cry of several voices.

This sound, arising from what appeared to be a quite deserted coast, was really very daunting,
and the men in the boat held water instantly.

"What's this of it?" sings out the captain, for he was come within an easy hail.

"Freens o' mine," says Alan, and began immediately to wade forth in the shallow water towards
the boat. "Davie," he said, pausing, "Davie, are ye no coming? I am swier to leave ye."

"Not a hair of me," said I.

He stood part of a second where he was to his knees in the salt water, hesitating.

"He that will to Cupar, maun to Cupar," said he, and swashing in deeper than his waist, was
hauled into the skiff, which was immediately directed for the ship.

I stood where he had left me, with my hands behind my back; Alan sat with his head turned watching
me; and the boat drew smoothly away. Of a sudden I came the nearest hand to shedding tears,
and seemed to myself the most deserted, solitary lad in Scotland. With that I turned my back
upon the sea and faced the sand hills. There was no sight or sound of man; the sun shone on
the wet sand and the dry, the wind blew in the bents, the gulls made a dreary piping. As I
passed higher up the beach, the sand-lice were hopping nimbly about the stranded tangles. The
devil any other sight or sound in that unchancy place. And yet I knew there were folk there,
observing me, upon some secret purpose. They were no soldiers, or they would have fallen on
and taken us ere now; doubtless they were some common rogues hired for my undoing, perhaps
to kidnap, perhaps to murder me outright. From the position of those engaged, the first was
the more likely; from what I knew of their character and ardency in this business, I thought
the second very possible; and the blood ran cold about my heart. 

= (2) Press Reports from Overseas= In view of the fact that the happenings
in the Hutt Valley were reported in all New Zealand newspapers, and
by many newspapers in Australia and Great Britain, the Committee points
out that the increase of sexual delinquency is not confined to any
one district or any one country.

It cannot be too strongly asserted that the great majority of the young people of the Hutt
Valley are as healthy-minded and as well behaved as those in other districts, whether in New Zealand
or elsewhere. It just happened that, through the voluntary confession
of one girl in Petone, many cases were immediately brought to the
knowledge of the police.

In
the absence of comparable statistics from other countries, the Committee can merely quote from
some of the reports received in New Zealand at about the same time that
the Hutt Valley cases were reported.

(a) England In Monmouthshire last year there was an increase of 88 per cent in sexual offences.
The biggest increases recorded were for indecent assault on females--
132 in 1953, compared with 75 in 1952-- and for offences against girls
under 16 years of age.

In his annual report the Chief Constable states that this shocking record is a further indication
of the general lowering of moral standards...-- The "Police Review" (London), 19 February 1954.
(b) New South Wales POLICE UNCOVER WILD TEENAGE SEX ORGIES Detectives
have uncovered evidence of an amazing sex cult in which a bodgie "high
priest" and a number of pretty teenagers indulged in wild orgies in
a Sydney suburb.

It is alleged that the "high priest" made the girls participate in
lewd rituals, swear a profane oath on "the bodgies'bible" and worship
at a "bodgies'altar".

Following these sensational allegations, four men were arrested. Police expect to arrest another
seven. Disappearance of the 15-year-old daughter of a respected Erskineville family started the police
investigation which uncovered the sex cult.

Both the girl and the "high priest" undressed, and, as she lay on
a bed, he compelled her to engage in grossly obscene acts with him. Then,
while the "high priest" performed a gross act of indecency, the girl
swore the "widgies'oath" on the "bodgies'bible".-- Sydney "Truth"

27 June 1954.

(c) South Australia ADELAIDE POLICE SEIZE TEENAGERS IN SWIFT RAIDS
In a series of lightning raids Port Adelaide police have arrested
six teenagers who they claim are members of a sex cult.

Vice Squad detectives say the cult indulged in sex and drug parties.

The Port Adelaide Police Chief Inspector, G. E. Mensfort, said that when the cases came to Court
he suspected revelations similar to those in the Hutt Valley, which
recently shocked New Zealand.

A number of teenage youths have already appeared in Port Adelaide Police and Juvenile Courts on
carnal knowledge charges...-- Telegram in the "Dominion", 30 July
1954.

(d) London MANY GIRLS IN BAD COMPANY One black spot in an otherwise more optimistic report by the
Police Commissioner on crime in London is a disturbing increase in the number of 17-and 18-year-old
girls who are coming under the notice of policewomen on their beat, says the Daily Mirror.-- N. Z. P.
A. to "Evening Post", 2 September 1954.= (3) A World-wide Problem= There
have been waves of sexual crime in various countries at various times.

Juvenile delinquency itself has been the subject of much research
(especially in the United States) during the past fifty years. But
although such offences as indecent exposure and sexual assault by
juniors have been included in published figures, no special mention
has been found by this Committee of the aspect of sexual delinquency
now being discussed in New Zealand.

What is entirely new in New Zealand (and probably in other places,
too) is the attitude of mind of some young people to sexual indulgence
with one another, their planning and organization of it, and their
assumption that when they consent together they are not doing anything
wrong.

Clergymen and publicists in various parts of the world have been
declaiming about illicit sexual practices and their effects on young
people, but this is the first time that any Government has set up
a Committee to sift the available data on sexual misbehaviour with
a view to finding the cause and suggesting a remedy.

While this report was being typed there appeared in the local newspapers
the following telegram despatched from London on September 14: INQUIRY
INTO VICE WAVE IN BRITAIN A Government committee, including three
women, is to open tomorrow a searching probe into Britain's homosexuals
and prostitutes, to decide whether the country's vice laws should
be changed.

The Government's decision to set up the committee followed public alarm at the vice wave in Britain,
highlighted by a steep increase in homosexual offences. The Home Secretary, Sir David Maxwell Fyfe,
has charged the committee with considering the law and practice relating to homosexual offences
and the treatment of persons convicted of such offences, and offences against the criminal
law in connection with prostitution and solicitation for immoral purposes. According to the police,
prostitutes in London alone have soared to a record of more than
10,000.

Convictions for sexual offences exceed 5,000 a year, compared with
the immediate pre-war total of 2,300.

The figures for male homosexual offences have bounded even more sharply.

The extent of juvenile immorality in New Zealand may have been greatly magnified abroad. If the good
name of this Dominion has been sullied by these reports, the Committee hopes that any damage
may be repaired by setting out the facts in their true perspective and by demonstrating that
we can, and will, do something in the interests of morality which
may also give a lead to other countries.

II.

Order of Reference and Procedure Followed On 23 July 1954 a Special
Committee was appointed by the Government with the following Order
of Reference: To inquire into and to report upon conditions and influences
that tend to undermine standards of sexual morality of children and
adolescents in New Zealand, and the extent to which such conditions
and influences are operative, and to make recommendations to the Government
for positive action by both public and private agencies, or otherwise.

The Committee held its first meeting on Tuesday, 27 July, to determine points of procedure
and to make arrangements to hear all who desired to make submissions.

       There were placed before the Committee files of letters which had
been written to Ministers of the Crown, and hundreds of newspaper clippings,
relating to this topic. Some days were occupied in the sorting and reading
of this material in anticipation of the task which lay ahead.

The Committee commenced the hearing of evidence at Wellington on Tuesday,
3 August. It sat in Christchurch for the convenience of people in the
South Island on 31 August and 1 September, and in Auckland from 6
September to 10 September. Altogether 145 persons (18 on more than one
occasion), appearing either in a representative capacity or as private
individuals, were heard.

In addition, 203 written submissions were made by interested organizations and private persons,
and a large volume of relevant correspondence, addressed direct to the Committee, was considered.
A list of the persons who appeared before the Committee and of the organizations or societies which
made either written or oral representations is attached.

It should here be observed that the Committee, not having the powers of a Commission of Inquiry,
could not summon witnesses before it.

All officers of the Crown, and all public agencies from whom information
was sought, were helpful.

Much of the evidence, however, was secondary or hearsay evidence.
The Committee had not the power to trace some of the stated facts back
to their source.

It was thought undesirable to interview any of the children involved
in recent happenings. Reliance had to be placed on information regarding
each individual made available by the police and Child Welfare Officers,
and, in some cases, by the heads of their respective schools.

Similarly, there was much secondary evidence of indecent behaviour and of other facts said to
have been derived from reliable sources. The absence of direct evidence on some of these matters,
however, did not prevent the Committee from looking at the problem in its broad general aspects,
and from reaching conclusions which could not be affected by a closer scrutiny of some of the individual
matters narrated to the Committee. III. Narrative= (1) The Hutt Valley Cases= Before proceeding to examine
the extent of sexual laxity among children and adolescents it is
convenient to narrate the factual happenings which caused this problem
to assume such large proportions in the public mind in July and August
last.

On
the 20th day of June 1954 information was sought from the police concerning the whereabouts
of a girl 15-1/ 2 years of age who was missing from her home at Petone.
A few hours later this girl called at the Petone Police Station. She
stated that, being unhappy at home with her stepfather, she had,
since the previous Christmas, been a member of what she called a "Milk
Bar Gang" which (in her own words) met "mostly for sex purposes";
she had "become tired of the sex life", was worried about the future
of its younger members, and desired the police to break up the gang.

She gave the names of other members of the gang to the police.

By interviewing persons named by this girl, and then interviewing others
whom they in turn named, the police were able, without difficulty,
to obtain admissions and evidence of sexual misconduct by 65 children.

The procedure followed was for
the parents to be visited at their residences by a constable in plain
clothes, told the nature of the inquiry, and informed of the desire
of the police to interview the children at the police station. When
a parent and child attended at the time appointed the parent was informed
that, either through a sense of shame or fear of the parent, the
child might not make a full disclosure of the facts known to her.

Some parents consented to their children being interviewed alone; others desired, and were allowed,
to remain for the questioning. After each interview the parents were permitted to read the statements
of their children and to sign them before the children themselves were asked to sign. The disclosures thus
made, immediately recalled certain similar occurrences in the same district during October/
November 1952.

It speedily became apparent that the 1954 situation was much more serious in that there were
approximately three times as many children dealt with and that three of the children had been involved
in the earlier trouble.

For purposes of comparison the Hutt Valley cases are set out as follows: Girls involved 6 17 Girls pregnant
2... Boys involved 11 37 Boys over eighteen... 5 Charges laid 61 107 Committed to care of State 3 girls
5 girls 1 boy Placed under supervision 3 girls 4 girls 7 boys 7 boys Admitted to probation
1 boy 6 boys Admonished and discharged or otherwise dealt with 3 30 Dismissed in Children's Court...
3 Acquitted in Magistrate's Court... 1 Acquitted in Supreme Court... 3 (One boy appeared in
both Supreme Court and Magistrate's Court; thus showing 60 persons
dealt with.)= (2) Cases in Other Districts= It cannot be supposed
that sexual misbehaviour was confined to the Hutt district.

Similar environmental conditions obtain in other districts. It was reliably
stated in evidence at Wellington that if a girl elsewhere were to
carry her story to the police similar revelations would be made there.

In Auckland matters came to the knowledge of the Committee which do cause
grave concern.

Here again the Committee was not engaged on a fact-finding mission, but was seeking to evaluate
the evidence in a broad way.

It appears that, a few weeks before the Hutt cases were reported, the
headmaster of an intermediate school informed the police of a case
of theft of money by a schoolboy who was found to have£ 22 in his
wallet.

In the course of their inquiries into this the police were started on a train of investigation
into sexual practices of children on their way home from school, at the homes of parents, and elsewhere.
As a result, about 40 boys and girls in the 12-- 15-year-old group (but including also a girl of 9 years)
were implicated. In addition to this, there were two cases before the Court in which several
girls had given evidence of their agreement to sexual intercourse with older men. One of the
accused men has recently been sentenced to a term of imprisonment, while the other is still awaiting
trial.

As this latter case, and also a charge of murder against a boy aged
14, are still sub judice, the Committee is unable to comment on any
of the factors involved.

This much may, however, be said that, from the police, welfare officers,
a headmaster, and social workers in Auckland, the Committee learned
of an accumulation of sordid happenings occurring within a short space
of time which people who regard themselves as men of the world could
scarcely believe possible in this Dominion.

No submissions were presented to the Committee that sexual offending by juveniles in the South
Island had increased to any alarming extent. Such cases as were mentioned to the Committee
followed previously recognized patterns.

Sexual immorality is, by its very nature, a clandestine vice. Any available figures can comprise
only such things as detected offences against the law, or registration of ex-nuptial births,
or births which have resulted from pre-marital intercourse. Figures are not available concerning
immoral acts which do not become the subject of a criminal charge. Charges of unlawful carnal
knowledge or indecent assault arise, for the most part, from complaints made by females. From
feelings of chivalry or other reasons it is not in the nature of the male to inform on the
female. The common experience is that a charge of sexual impropriety comes from information supplied
by the female. So long as a girl is prepared to be silent, the offenders remain unknown. As with
older people, so also with children.

Whether
sexual laxity has been increasing must be a matter largely of impression based, perhaps, upon inference
from certain known facts. On this matter there is room for a wide divergence of opinion. If policemen,
teachers, or social workers in the Hutt district had been asked in June of 1954 whether immorality had
increased there, they would probably have replied that the wave of 1952 had receded and matters
were back to normal. Yet a month later that district had achieved an unenviable, and even unfair,
reputation in this respect. Sad to relate, the cases in respect of which
the police took action in the Hutt do not represent the full extent
of known sexual immorality among juveniles there.

This is shown by the following pieces of evidence: (a) The office bearers of one Church gave
to the Committee particulars of several recent cases which had come
to their notice in the ordinary course of their social welfare work
(two of them girls who had become pregnant before their sixteenth
birthdays).

These were cases which had not been investigated by the police. It was also the conclusion of these
Church officers that the cases which had been revealed to them were far outnumbered by those which
were not so revealed. (b) It was quite obvious to the police officials
who made the investigations in July that no useful purpose would be
served by extending their inquiries further.= (2) Unreliability of
Available Statistics for Comparative Purposes= The previous section
was written to show the difficulty of obtaining a comparison between
vice at one period and that at another.

This section is to indicate the difficulties which arise in making
comparisons (even when figures are available) between different sections
of the people at different times and between different groups of
people.

(a) Sexual Crime Among Adults No inference can be drawn from any comparisons between sexual crime
of adults and sexual misbehaviour among children. Now I would take
this lightly enough; tell myself that so long as I stood well with Catriona Drummond, the opinion
of the rest of man was but moonshine and spilled water; and thence pass off into those meditations
of a lover which are so delightful to himself and must always appear so surprisingly idle to
a reader. But anon the fear would take me otherwise; I would be shaken with a perfect panic
of self-esteem, and these supposed hard judgments appear an injustice impossible to be supported.
With that another train of thought would be presented, and I had scarce begun to be concerned
about men's judgments of myself, than I was haunted with the remembrance of James Stewart in
his dungeon and the lamentations of his wife. Then, indeed, passion began to work in me; I
could not forgive myself to sit there idle; it seemed (if I were a man at all) that I could
fly or swim out of my place of safety; and it was in such humours and to amuse my self-reproaches
that I would set the more particularly to win the good side of Andie Dale.

At last, when we two were alone on the summit of the rock on a bright morning, I put in some
hint about a bribe. He looked at me, cast back his head, and laughed out loud.

"Ay, you're funny, Mr. Dale," said I, "but perhaps if you glance an eye upon that paper you
may change your note."

The stupid Highlanders had taken from me at the time of my seizure nothing but hard money,
and the paper I now showed Andie was an acknowledgment from the British Linen Company for a
considerable sum.

He read it. "Troth, and ye're nane sae ill aff," said he.

"I thought that would maybe vary your opinions," said I.

"Hout!" said he. "It shaws me ye can bribe; but I'm no to be bribit."

"We'll see about that yet a while," says I. "And first, I'll show you that I know what I am
talking. You have orders to detain me here till Thursday, 21st September."

"Ye're no a'thegether wrong either," says Andie. "I'm to let ye gang, bar orders contrair,
on Saturday, the 23rd."

I could not but feel there was something extremely insidious in this arrangement. That I was
to reappear precisely in time to be too late would cast the more discredit on my tale, if I
were minded to tell one; and this screwed me to fighting point.

"Now then, Andie, you that kens the world, listen to me, and think while ye listen," said I.
"I know there are great folks in the business, and I make no doubt you have their names to
go upon. I have seen some of them myself since this affair began, and said my say into their
faces too. But what kind of a crime would this be that I had committed? or what kind of a process
is this that I am fallen under? To be apprehended by some ragged John-Hielandmen on August
30th, carried to a rickle of old stones that is now neither fort nor gaol (whatever it once
was) but just the gamekeeper's lodge of the Bass Rock, and set free again, September 23d, as
secretly as I was first arrested--does that sound like law to you? or does it sound like justice?
or does it not sound honestly like a piece of some low dirty intrigue, of which the very folk
that meddle with it are ashamed?"

"I canna gainsay ye, Shaws. It looks unco underhand," says Andie. "And werenae the folk guid
sound Whigs and true-blue Presbyterians I would hae seen them ayont Jordan and Jeroozlem or
I would have set hand to it."

"The Master of Lovat'll be a braw Whig," says I, "and a grand Presbyterian."

"I ken naething by him," said he. "I hae nae trokings wi' Lovats."

"No, it'll be Prestongrange that you'll be dealing with," said I.

"Ah, but I'll no tell ye that," said Andie.

"Little need when I ken," was my retort.

"There's just the ae thing ye can be fairly sure of, Shaws," says Andie. "And that is that
(try as ye please) I'm no dealing wi' yoursel'; nor yet I amnae goin' to," he added.

"Well, Andie, I see I'll have to be speak out plain with you," I replied. And I told him so
much as I thought needful of the facts.

He heard me out with serious interest, and when I had done, seemed to consider a little with
himself.

"Shaws," said he at last, "I deal with the naked hand. It's a queer tale, and no vary creditable,
the way you tell it; and I'm far frae minting that is other than the way that ye believe it.
As for yoursel', ye seems to me rather a dacent-like young man. But me, that's aulder and mair
judeecious, see perhaps a wee bit further forrit in the job than what ye can dae. And here
is the maitter clear and plain to ye. There'll be nae skaith to yoursel' if I keep ye here;
far frae that, I think ye'll be a hantle better by it. There'll be nae skaith to the kintry--just
ae mair Hielantman hangit--Gude kens, a guid riddance! On the ither hand it would be considerable
skaith to me if I would let you free. Sae, speakin' as a guid Whig, an honest freen' to you,
and an anxious freen' to my ainsel', the plain fact is that I think ye'll just have to bide
here wi' Andie an' the solans."

"Andie," said I, laying my hand upon his knee, "this Hielantman's innocent."

"Ay, it's a peety about that," said he. "But ye see in this warld, the way God made it, we
cannae just get a'thing that we want."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XV

BLACK ANDIE'S TALE OF TOD LAPRAIK

I have yet said little of the Highlanders. They were all three of the followers of James More,
which bound the accusation very tight about their master's neck. All understood a word or two
of English; but Neil was the only one who judged he had enough of it for general converse,
in which (when once he got embarked) his company was often tempted to the contrary opinion.
They were tractable, simple creatures; showed much more courtesy than might have been expected
from their raggedness and their uncouth appearance, and fell spontaneously to be like three
servants for Andie and myself.

Dwelling in that isolated place, in the old falling ruins of a prison, and among endless strange
sounds of the sea and the sea-birds, I thought I perceived in them early the effects of superstitious
fear. When there was nothing doing they would either lie and sleep, for which their appetite
appeared insatiable, or Neil would entertain the others with stories which seemed always of
a terrifying strain. If neither of these delights were within reach--if perhaps two were sleeping
and the third could find no means to follow their example--I would see him sit and listen and
look about him in a progression of uneasiness, starting, his face blenching, his hands clutched,
a man strung like a bow. The nature of these fears I had never an occasion to find out, but
the sight of them was catching, and the nature of the place that we were in favourable to alarms.
I can find no word for it in the English, but Andie had an expression for it in the Scots from
which he never varied.

"Ay," he would say, "it's an unco place, the Bass." It is so I always think of it. It was an
unco place by night, unco by day; and these were unco sounds, of the calling of the solans,
and the plash of the sea and the rock echoes, that hung continually in our ears. It was chiefly
so in moderate weather. When the waves were anyway great they roared about the rock like thunder
and the drums of armies, dreadful but merry to hear; and it was in the calm days that a man
could daunt himself with listening--not a Highlandman only, as I several times experimented
on myself, so many still, hollow noises haunted and reverberated in the porches of the rock.

This brings me to a story I heard, and a scene I took part in, which quite changed our terms
of living, and had a great effect on my departure. It chanced one night I fell in a muse beside
the fire and (that little air of Alan's coming back to my memory) began to whistle. A hand
was laid upon my arm, and the voice of Neil bade me to stop, for it was not "canny musics."

"Not canny?" I asked. "How can that be?"

"Na," said he; "it will be made by a bogle and her wanting ta heid upon his body."[13]

"Well," said I, "there can be no bogles here, Neil; for it's not likely they would fash themselves
to frighten solan geese."

"Ay?" says Andie, "is that what ye think of it? But I'll can tell ye there's been waur nor
bogles here."

"What's waur than bogles, Andie?" said I.

"Warlocks," said he. "Or a warlock at the least of it. And that's a queer tale, too," he added.
"And if ye would like, I'll tell it ye."

To be sure we were all of the one mind, and even the Highlander that had the least English
of the three set himself to listen with all his might.

THE TALE OF TOD LAPRAIK

My faither, Tam Dale, peace to his banes, was a wild, sploring lad in his young days, wi' little
wisdom and less grace. He was fond of a lass and fond of a glass, and fond of a ran-dan; but
I could never hear tell that he was muckle use for honest employment. Frae ae thing to anither,
he listed at last for a sodger and was in the garrison of this fort, which was the first way
that ony of the Dales cam to set foot upon the Bass. Sorrow upon that service! The governor
brewed his ain ale; it seems it was the warst conceivable. The rock was proveesioned frae the
shore with vivers, the thing was ill-guided, and there were whiles when they but to fish and
shoot solans for their diet. To crown a', thir was the Days of the Persecution. The perishin'
cauld chalmers were all occupeed wi' sants and martyrs, the saut of the yearth, of which it
wasnae worthy. And though Tam Dale carried a firelock there, a single sodger, and liked a lass
and a glass, as I was sayin', the mind of the man was mair just than set with his position.
He had glints of the glory of the kirk; there were whiles when his dander rase to see the Lord's
sants misguided, and shame covered him that he should be haulding a can'le (or carrying a firelock)
in so black a business. There were nights of it when he was here on sentry, the place a' wheesht,
the frosts o' winter maybe riving in the wa's, and he would hear are o' the prisoners strike
up a psalm, and the rest join in, and the blessed sounds rising from the different chalmers--or
dungeons, I would raither say--so that this auld craig in the sea was like a pairt of Heev'n.
Black shame was on his saul; his sins hove up before him muckle as the Bass, and above a',
that chief sin, that he should have a hand in hagging and hashing at Christ's Kirk. But the
truth is that he resisted the spirit. Day cam, there were the rousing companions, and his guid
resolves depairtit.

In thir days, dwalled upon the Bass a man of God, Peden the Prophet was his name. Ye'll have
heard tell of Prophet Peden. There was never the wale of him sinsyne, and it's a question wi'
mony if there ever was his like afore. He was wild 's a peat-hag, fearsome to look at, fearsome
to hear, his face like the day of judgment. The voice of him was like a solan's and dinnle'd
in folks' lugs, and the words of him like coals of fire.

Now there was a lass on the rock, and I think she had little to do, for it was nae place far
dacent weemen; but it seems she was bonny, and her and Tam Dale were very well agreed. It befell
that Peden was in the gairden his lane at the praying when Tam and the lass cam by; and what
should the lassie do but mock with laughter at the sant's devotions? He rose and lookit at
the twa o' them, and Tam's knees knoitered thegether at the look of him. But whan he spak,
it was mair in sorrow than in anger. "Poor thing, poor thing!" says he, and it was the lass
he lookit at. "I hear you skirl and laugh," he says, "but the Lord has a deid shot prepared
for you, and at that surprising judgment ye shall skirl but the ae time!" Shortly thereafter
she was daundering on the craigs wi' twa-three sodgers, and it was a blawy day. There cam a
gowst of wind, claught her by the coats, and awa' wi' her bag and baggage. And it was remarked
by the sodgers that she gied but the ae skirl.

Nae doubt this judgment had some weicht upon Tam Dale; but it passed again and him none the
better. Ae day he was flyting wi' anither sodger-lad. "Deil hae me!" quo' Tam, for he was a
profane swearer. And there was Peden glowering at him, gash an' waefu'; Peden wi' his lang
chafts an' luntin' een, the maud happed about his kist, and the hand of him held out wi' the
black nails upon the finger-nebs--for he had nae care of the body. "Fy, fy, poor man!" cries
he, "the poor fool man! Deil hae me, quo' he; an' I see the deil at his oxter." The conviction
of guilt and grace cam in on Tam like the deep sea; he flang doun the pike that was in his
hands--"I will nae mair lift arms against the cause o' Christ!" says he, and was as gude's
word. There was a sair fyke in the beginning, but the governor, seeing him resolved, gied him
his dischairge, and he went and dwallt and merried in North Berwick, and had aye a gude name
with honest folk frae that day on.

It was in the year seeventeen hunner and sax that the Bass cam in the hands o' the Da'rymples,
and there was twa men soucht the chairge of it. Baith were weel qualified, for they had baith
been sodgers in the garrison, and kent the gate to handle solans, and the seasons and values
of them. Forby that they were baith--or they baith seemed--earnest professors and men of comely
conversation. The first of them was just Tam Dale, my faither. The second was ane Lapraik,
whom the folk ca'd Tod Lapraik maistly, but whether for his name or his nature I could never
hear tell. Weel, Tam gaed to see Lapraik upon this business, and took me, that was a toddlin'
laddie, by the hand. Tod had his dwallin' in the lang loan benorth the kirkyaird. It's a dark
uncanny loan, forby that the kirk has aye had an ill name since the days o' James the Saxt
and the deevil's cantrips played therein when the Queen was on the seas; and as for Tod's house,
it was in the mirkest end, and was little liked by some that kenned the best. The door was
on the sneck that day, and me and my faither gaed straucht in. Tod was a wabster to his trade;
his loom stood in the but. There he sat, a muckle fat, white hash of a man like creish, wi'
a kind of a holy smile that gart me scunner. The hand of him aye cawed the shuttle, but his
een was steeked. We cried to him by his name, we skirled in the deid lug of him, we shook him
by the shou'ther. Nae mainner o' service! There he sat on his dowp, an' cawed the shuttle and
smiled like creish.

"God be guid to us," says Tam Dale, "this is no canny!"

He had jimp said the word, when Tod Lapraik cam to himsel'.

"Is this you, Tam?" says he. "Haith, man! I'm blythe to see ye. I whiles fa' into a bit dwam
like this," he says; "it's frae the stamach."

Weel, they began to crack about the Bass and which of them twa was to get the warding o't,
and by little and little cam to very ill words, and twined in anger. I mind weel, that as my
faither and me gaed hame again, he cam ower and ower the same expression, how little he likit
Tod Lapraik and his dwams.

"Dwam!" says he. "I think folk hae brunt far dwams like yon."

Aweel, my faither got the Bass and Tod had to go wantin'. It was remembered sinsyne what way
he had ta'en the thing. "Tam," says he, "ye hae gotten the better o'me aince mair, and I hope,"
says he, "ye'll find at least a' that ye expeckit at the Bass." Which have since been thought
remarkable expressions. At last the time came for Tam Dale to take young solans. This was a
business he was weel used wi', he had been a craigsman frae a laddie, and trustit nane but
himsel'. So there was he hingin' by a line an' speldering on the craig face, whaur it's hieest
and steighest. Fower tenty lads were on the tap, hauldin' the line and mindin' for his signals.
But whaur Tam hung there was naething but the craig, and the sea belaw, and the solans skirling
and flying. It was a braw spring morn, and Tam whustled as he claught in the young geese. Mony's
the time I heard him tell of this experience, and aye the swat ran upon the man.

It chanced, ye see, that Tam keeked up, and he was awaur of a muckle solan, and the solan pyking
at the line. He thocht this by-ordinar and outside the creature's habits. He minded that ropes
was unco saft things, and the solan's neb and the Bass Rock unco hard, and that twa hunner
feet were raither mair than he would care to fa'.

"Shoo!" says Tam. "Awa', bird! Shoo, awa' wi' ye!" says he.

The solan keekit doun into Tam's face, and there was something unco in the creature's ee. Just
the ae keek it gied, and back to the rope. But now it wroucht and warstl't like a thing dementit.
There never was the solan made that wroucht as that solan wroucht; and it seemed to understand
it's employ brawly, birzing the saft rope between the neb of it and a crunkled jag o' stane.

There gaed a cauld stend o' fear into Tam's heart. "This thing is nae bird," thinks he. His
een turnt backward in his heid and the day gaed black about him. "If I get a dwam here," he
thoucht, "it's by wi' Tam Dale." And he signalled for the lads to pu' him up.

And it seemed the solan understood about signals. For nae sooner was the signal made than he
let be the rope, spried his wings, squawked out loud, took a turn flying, and dashed straucht
at Tam Dale's een. Tam had a knife, he gart the cauld steel glitter. And it seemed the solan
understood about knives, for nae suner did the steel glint in the sun than he gied the ae squawk,
but laigher, like a body disappointit, and flegged aff about the roundness of the craig, and
Tam saw him nae mair. And as sune as that thing was gane, Tam's held drapt upon his shouther,
and they pu'd him up like a deid corp, dadding on the craig.

A dram of brandy (which he went never without) broucht him to his mind, or what was left of
it. Up he sat.

"Rin, Geordie, rin to the boat, mak' sure of the boat, man--rin!" he cries, "or yon solan 'll
have it awa'," says he.

The fower lads stared at ither, an' tried to whilly-wha him to be quiet. But naething, would
satisfy Tam Dale, till ane o' them had startit on aheid to stand sentry on the boat. The ithers
askit if he was for down again.

"Na," says he, "and niether you nor me," says he, "and as sune as I can win to stand on my
twa feet we'll be aff frae this craig o' Sawtan."

Sure eneuch, nae time was lost, and that was ower muckle; for before they won to North Berwick
Tam was in a crying fever. He lay a' the simmer; and wha was sae kind as come speiring for
him, but Tod Lapraik! Folk thocht afterwards that ilka time Tod cam near the house the fever
had worsened. I kenna for that; but what I ken the best, that was the end of it.

It was about this time o' the year; my grandfaither was out at the white fishing; and like
a bairn, I but to gang wi' him. We had a grand take, I mind, and the way that the fish lay
broucht us near in by the Bass, whaur we forgaithered wi' anither boat that belanged to a man
Sandie Fletcher in Castleton. He's no lang deid niether, or ye could spier at himsel'. Weel,
Sandie hailed.

"What's yon on the Bass?" says he.

"On the Bass?" says grandfaither.

"Ay," says Sandie, "on the green side o't."

"Whatten kind of a thing?" says grandfaither. "There cannae be naething on the Bass but just
the sheep."

"It looks unco like a body," quo' Sandie, who was nearer in.

"A body!" says we, and we nane of us likit that. For there was nae boat that could have broucht
a man, and the key o' the prison yett hung ower my faither's held at hame in the press bed.

We keept the twa boats closs for company, and crap in nearer hand. Grandfaither had a gless,
for he had been a sailor, and the captain of a smack, and had lost her on the sands of Tay.
And when we took the gless to it, sure eneuch there was a man. He was in a crunkle o' green
brae, a wee below the chaipel, a' by his lee lane, and lowped and flang and danced like a daft
quean at a waddin'.

"It's Tod," says grandfaither, and passed the gless to Sandie.

"Ay, it's him," says Sandie.

"Or ane in the likeness o' him,'' says grandfaither.

"Sma' is the differ," quo' Sandie. "De'il or warlock, I'll try the gun at him," quo' he, and
broucht up a fowling-piece that he aye carried, for Sandie was a notable famous shot in all
that country.

"Haud your hand, Sandie," says grandfaither; "we maun see clearer first," says he, "or this
may be a dear day's wark to the baith of us."

"Hout!" says Sandie, "this is the Lord's judgments surely, and be damned to it!" says he.

"Maybe ay, and maybe no," says my grandfaither, worthy man! "But have you a mind of the Procurator
Fiscal, that I think ye'll have forgaithered wi' before," says he.

This was ower true, and Sandie was a wee thing set ajee. "Aweel, Edie," says he, "and what
would be your way of it?"

"Ou, just this," says grandfaither. "Let me that has the fastest boat gang back to North Berwick,
and let you bide here and keep an eye on Thon. If I cannae find Lapraik, I'll join ye and the
twa of us'll have a crack wi' him. But if Lapraik's at hame, I'll rin up the flag at the harbour,
and ye can try Thon Thing wi' the gun."

Aweel, so it was agreed between them twa. I was just a bairn, an' clum in Sandie's boat, whaur
I thoucht I would see the best of the employ. My grandsire gied Sandie a siller tester to pit
in his gun wi' the leid draps, bein' mair deidly again bogles. And then the ae boat set aff
for North Berwick, an' the tither lay whaur it was and watched the wanchancy thing on the braeside.

A' the time we lay there it lowped and flang and capered and span like a teetotum, and whiles
we could hear it skelloch as it span. I hae seen lassies, the daft queans, that would lowp
and dance a winter's nicht, and still be lowping and dancing when the winter's day cam in.
But there would be folk there to hauld them company, and the lads to egg them on; and this
thing was its lee-lane. And there would be a fiddler diddling his elbock in the chimney-side;
and this thing had nae music but the skirling of the solans. And the lassies were bits o' young
things wi' the reid life dinnling and stending in their members; and this was a muckle, fat,
crieshy man, and him fa'n in the vale o' years. Say what ye like, I maun say what I believe.
It was joy was in the creature's heart; the joy o' hell, I daursay: joy whatever. Mony a time
I have askit mysel', why witches and warlocks should sell their sauls (whilk are their maist
dear possessions) and be auld, duddy, wrunkl't wives or auld, feckless, doddered men; and then
I mind upon Tod Lapraik dancing a' they hours by his lane in the black glory of his heart.
Nae doubt they burn for it in muckle hell, but they have a grand time here of it, whatever!--and
the Lord forgie us!

Weel, at the hinder end, we saw the wee flag yirk up to the mast-held upon the harbour rocks.
That was a' Sandie waited for. He up wi' the gun, took a deleeberate aim, an' pu'd the trigger.
There cam' a bang and then ae waefu' skirl frae the Bass. And there were we rubbin' our een
and lookin' at ither like daft folk. For wi' the bang and the skirl the thing had clean disappeared.
The sun glintit, the wund blew, and there was the bare yaird whaur the Wonder had been lowping
and flinging but ae second syne.

The hale way hame I roared and grat wi' the terror of that dispensation. The grawn folk were
nane sae muckle better; there was little said in Sandie's boat but just the name of God; and
when we won in by the pier, the harbour rocks were fair black wi' the folk waitin' us. It seems
they had fund Lapraik in ane of his dwams, cawing the shuttle and smiling. Ae lad they sent
to hoist the flag, and the rest abode there in the wabster's house. You may be sure they liked
it little; but it was a means of grace to severals that stood there praying in to themsel's
(for nane cared to pray out loud) and looking on thon awesome thing as it cawed the shuttle.
Syne, upon a suddenty, and wi' the ae driedfu' skelloch, Tod sprang up frae his hinderlands
and fell forrit on the wab, a bluidy corp.

When the corp was examined the leid draps hadnae played buff upon the warlock's body; sorrow
a leid drap was to be fund; but there was grandfather's siller tester in the puddock's heart
of him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Andie had scarce done when there befell a mighty silly affair that had its consequence. Neil,
as I have said, was himself a great narrator. I have heard since that he knew all the stories
in the Highlands; and thought much of himself, and was thought much of by others, on the strength
of it. Now Andie's tale reminded him of one he had already heard.

"She would ken that story afore," he said. "She was the story of Uistean More M'Gillie Phadrig
and the Gavar Vore."

"It is no sic a thing," cried Andie. "It is the story of my faither (now wi' God) and Tod Lapraik.
And the same in your beard," says he; "and keep the tongue of ye inside your Hielant chafts!"

In dealing with Highlanders it will be found, and has been shown in history, how well it goes
with Lowland gentlefolk; but the thing appears scarce feasible for Lowland commons. I had already
remarked that Andie was continually on the point of quarrelling with our three Macgregors,
and now, sure enough, it was to come.

"Thir will be no words to use to shentlemans," says Neil.

"Shentlemans!" cries Andie. "Shentlemans, ye hielant stot! If God would give ye the grace to
see yoursel' the way that ithers see ye, ye would throw your denner up."

There came some kind of a Gaelic oath from Neil, and the black knife was in his hand that moment.

There was no time to think; and I caught the Highlander by the leg, and had him down, and his
armed hand pinned out, before I knew what I was doing. His comrades sprang to rescue him, Andie
and I were without weapons, the Gregara three to two. It seemed we were beyond salvation, when
Neil screamed in his own tongue, ordering the others back, and made his submission to myself
in a manner the most abject, even giving me up his knife which (upon a repetition of his promises)
I returned to him on the morrow.

Two things I saw plain: the first, that I must not build too high on Andie, who had shrunk
against the wall and stood there, as pale as death, till the affair was over; the second, the
strength of my own position with the Highlanders, who must have received extraordinary charges
to be tender of my safety. But if I thought Andie came not very well out in courage, I had
no fault to find with him upon the account of gratitude. It was not so much that he troubled
me with thanks, as that his whole mind and manner appeared changed; and as he preserved ever
after a great timidity of our companions, he and I were yet more constantly together.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XVI

THE MISSING WITNESS

On the seventeenth, the day I was trysted with the Writer, I had much rebellion against fate.
The thought of him waiting in the King's Arms, and of what he would think, and what he would
say when next we met, tormented and oppressed me. The truth was unbelievable, so much I had
to grant, and it seemed cruel hard I should be posted as a liar and a coward, and have never
consciously omitted what it was possible that I should do. I repeated this form of words with
a kind of bitter relish, and re-examined in that light the steps of my behaviour. It seemed
I had behaved to James Stewart as a brother might; all the past was a picture that I could
be proud of, and there was only the present to consider. I could not swim the sea, nor yet
fly in the air, but there was always Andie. I had done him a service, he liked me; I had a
lever there to work on; if it were just for decency, I must try once more with Andie.

It was late afternoon; there was no sound in all the Bass but the lap and bubble of a very
quiet sea; and my four companions were all crept apart, the three Macgregors higher on the
rock, and Andie with his Bible to a sunny place among the ruins; there I found him in deep
sleep, and, as soon as he was awake, appealed to him with some fervour of manner and a good
show of argument.

"If I thoucht it was to do guid to ye, Shaws!" said he, staring at me over his spectacles.

"It's to save another," said I, "and to redeem my word. What would be more good than that?
Do ye no mind the scripture, Andie? And you with the Book upon your lap! What shall it profit
a man if he gain the whole world?"

"Ay," said he, "that's grand for you. But where do I come in? I have my word to redeem the
same's yoursel'. And what are ye asking me to do, but just to sell it ye for siller?"

"Andie! have I named the name of siller?" cried I.

"Ou, the name's naething," said he; "the thing is there, whatever. It just comes to this; if
I am to service ye the way that you propose, I'll loss my lieihood. Then it's clear ye'll have
to make it up to me, and a pickle mair, for your ain credit like. And what's that but just
a bribe? And if even I was certain of the bribe! But by a' that I can learn, it's far frae
that; and if you were to hang, where would I be? Na: the thing's no possible. And just awa'
wi' ye like a bonny lad! and let Andie read his chapter."

I remember I was at bottom a good deal gratified with this result; and the next humour I fell
into was one (I had near said) of gratitude to Prestongrange, who had saved me, in this violent,
illegal manner, out of the midst of my dangers, temptations, and perplexities. But this was
both too flimsy and too cowardly to last me long, and the remembrance of James began to succeed
to the possession of my spirits. The 21st, the day set for the trial, I passed in such misery
of mind as I can scarce recall to have endured, save perhaps upon Isle Earraid only. Much of
the time I lay on a braeside betwixt sleep and waking, my body motionless, my mind full of
violent thoughts. Sometimes I slept indeed; but the court-house of Inverary and the prisoner
glancing on all sides to find his missing witness, followed me in slumber; and I would wake
again with a start to darkness of spirit and distress of body. I thought Andie seemed to observe
me, but I paid him little heed. Verily, my bread was bitter to me, and my days a burthen.

Early the next morning (Friday, 22nd) a boat came with provisions, and Andie placed a packet
in my hand. The cover was without address but sealed with a Government seal. It enclosed two
notes. "Mr. Balfour can now see for himself it is too late to meddle. His conduct will be observed
and his discretion rewarded." So ran the first, which seemed to be laboriously writ with the
left hand. There was certainly nothing in these expressions to compromise the writer, even
if that person could be found; the seal, which formidably served instead of signature, was
affixed to a separate sheet on which there was no scratch of writing; and I had to confess
that (so far) my adversaries knew what they were doing, and to digest as well as I was able
the threat that peeped under the promise.

But the second enclosure was by far the more surprising. It was in a lady's hand of writ. "Maister
Dauvit Balfour is informed a friend was speiring for him, and her eyes were of the grey," it
ran--and seemed so extraordinary a piece to come to my hands at such a moment and under cover
of a Government seal, that I stood stupid. Catriona's grey eyes shone in my remembrance. I
thought, with a bound of pleasure, she must be the friend. But who should the writer be, to
have her billet thus enclosed with Prestongrange's? And of all wonders, why was it thought
needful to give me this pleasing but most inconsequential intelligence upon the Bass? For the
writer, I could hit upon none possible except Miss Grant. Her family, I remembered, had remarked
on Catriona's eyes and even named her for their colour; and she herself had been much in the
habit to address me with a broad pronunciation, by way of a sniff, I supposed, at my rusticity.
No doubt, besides, but she lived in the same house as this letter came from. So there remained
but one step to be accounted for; and that was how Prestongrange should have permitted her
at all in an affair so secret, or let her daft-like billet go in the same cover with his own.
But even here I had a glimmering. For, first of all, there was something rather alarming about
the young lady, and papa might be more under her domination than I knew. And second, there
was the man's continual policy to be remembered, how his conduct had been continually mingled
with caresses, and he had scarce ever, in the midst of so much contention, laid aside a mask
of friendship. He must conceive that my imprisonment had incensed me. Perhaps this little jesting,
friendly message was intended to disarm my rancour?

I will be honest--and I think it did. I felt a sudden warmth towards that beautiful Miss Grant,
that she should stoop to so much interest in my affairs. The summoning up of Catriona moved
me of itself to milder and more cowardly counsels. If the Advocate knew of her and of our acquaintance--if
I should please him by some of that "discretion" at which his letter pointed--to what might
not this lead? In vain is the net spread in the sight of any fowl, the scripture says. Well,
fowls must be wiser than folk! For I thought I perceived the policy, and yet fell in with it.

I was in this frame, my heart beating, the grey eyes plain before me like two stars, when Andie
broke in upon my musing.

"I see ye hae gotten guid news," said he.

I found him looking curiously in my face; with that, there came before me like a vision of
James Stewart and the court of Inverary; and my mind turned at once like a door upon its hinges.
Trials, I reflected, sometimes draw out longer than is looked for. Even if I came to Inverary
just too late, something might yet be attempted in the interests of James--and in those of
my own character, the best would be accomplished. In a moment, it seemed without thought, I
had a plan devised.

"Andie," said I, "is it still to be to-morrow?"

He told me nothing was changed.

"Was anything said about the hour?" I asked.

He told me it was to be two o'clock afternoon.

"And about the place?" I pursued.

"Whatten place?" says Andie.

"The place I'm to be landed at," said I.

He owned there was nothing as to that.

"Very well, then," I said, "this shall be mine to arrange. The wind is in the east, my road
lies westward; keep your boat, I hire it; let us work up the Forth all day; and land me at
two o'clock to-morrow at the westmost we'll can have reached."

"Ye daft callant!" he cried, "ye would try for Inverary after a'!"

"Just that, Andie," says I.

"Weel, ye're ill to beat!" says he. "And I was kind o' sorry for ye a' day yesterday," he added.
"Ye see, I was never entirely sure till then, which way of it ye really wantit."

Here was a spur to a lame horse!

"A word in your ear, Andie," said I. "This plan of mine has another advantage yet. We can leave
these Hielandmen behind us on the rock, and one of your boats from the Castleton can bring
them off to-morrow. Yon Neil has a queer eye when he regards you; maybe, if I was once out
of the gate there might be knives again; these red-shanks are unco grudgeful. And if there
should come to be any question, here is your excuse. Our lives were in danger by these savages;
being answerable for my safety, you chose the part to bring me from their neighbourhood and
detain me the rest of the time on board your boat; and do you know, Andie?" says I, with a
smile, "I think it was very wisely chosen."

"The truth is I have nae goo for Neil," says Andie, "nor he for me, I'm thinking; and I would
like ill to come to my hands wi' the man. Tam Anster will make a better hand of it with the
cattle onyway." (For this man, Anster, came from Fife, where the Gaelic is still spoken.) "Ay,
ay!" says Andie, "Tam'll can deal with them the best. And troth! the mair I think of it, the
less I see what way we would be required. The place--ay, feggs! they had forgot the place.
Eh, Shaws, ye're a lang-heided chield when ye like! Forby that I'm awing ye my life," he added,
with more solemnity, and offered me his hand upon the bargain.

Whereupon, with scarce more words, we stepped suddenly on board the boat, cast off, and set
the lug. The Gregara were then busy upon breakfast, for the cookery was their usual part; but,
one of them stepping to the battlements, our flight was observed before we were twenty fathoms
from the rock; and the three of them ran about the ruins and the landing-shelf, for all the
world like ants about a broken nest, hailing and crying on us to return. We were still in both
the lee and the shadow of the rock, which last lay broad upon the waters, but presently came
forth in almost the same moment into the wind and sunshine; the sail filled, the boat heeled
to the gunwale, and we swept immediately beyond sound of the men's voices. To what terrors
they endured upon the rock, where they were now deserted without the countenance of any civilised
person or so much as the protection of a Bible, no limit can be set; nor had they any brandy
left to be their consolation, for even in the haste and secrecy of our departure Andie had
managed to remove it.

It was our first care to set Anster ashore in a cove by the Glenteithy Rocks, so that the deliverance
of our maroons might be duly seen to the next day. Thence we kept away up Firth. The breeze,
which was then so spirited, swiftly declined, but never wholly failed us. All day we kept moving,
though often not much more; and it was after dark ere we were up with the Queensferry. To keep
the letter of Andie's engagement (or what was left of it) I must remain on board, but I thought
no harm to communicate with the shore in writing. On Prestongrange's cover, where the Government
seal must have a good deal surprised my correspondent, I writ, by the boat's lantern, a few
necessary words, and Andie carried them to Rankeillor. In about an hour he came aboard again,
with a purse of money and the assurance that a good horse should be standing saddled for me
by two to-morrow at Clackmannan Pool. This done, and the boat riding by her stone anchor, we
lay down to sleep under the sail.

We were in the Pool the next day long ere two; and there was nothing left for me but sit and
wait. I felt little alacrity upon my errand. I would have been glad of any passable excuse
to lay it down; but none being to be found, my uneasiness was no less great than if I had been
running to some desired pleasure. By shortly after one the horse was at the waterside, and
I could see a man walking it to and fro till I should land, which vastly swelled my impatience.
Andie ran the moment of my liberation very fine, showing himself a man of his bare word, but
scarce serving his employers with a heaped measure; and by about fifty seconds after two I
was in the saddle and on the full stretch for Stirling. In a little more than an hour I had
passed that town, and was already mounting Alan Water side, when the weather broke in a small
tempest. The rain blinded me, the wind had nearly beat me from the saddle, and the first darkness
of the night surprised me in a wilderness still some way east of Balwhidder, not very sure
of my direction and mounted on a horse that began already to be weary.

In the press of my hurry, and to be spared the delay and annoyance of a guide, I had followed
(so far as it was possible for any horseman) the line of my journey with Alan. This I did with
open eyes, foreseeing a great risk in it, which the tempest had now brought to a reality. The
last that I knew of where I was, I think it must have been about Uam Var; the hour perhaps
six at night. I must still think it great good fortune that I got about eleven to my destination,
the house of Duncan Dhu. Where I had wandered in the interval perhaps the horse could tell.
I know we were twice down, and once over the saddle and for a moment carried away in a roaring
burn. Steed and rider were bemired up to the eyes.

From Duncan I had news of the trial. It was followed in all these Highland regions with religious
interest; news of it spread from Inverary as swift as men could travel; and I was rejoiced
to learn that, up to a late hour that Saturday, it was not yet concluded; and all men began
to suppose it must spread over to the Monday. Under the spur of this intelligence I would not
sit to eat; but, Duncan having agreed to be my guide, took the road again on foot, with the
piece in my hand and munching as I went. Duncan brought with him a flask of usquebaugh and
a hand-lantern; which last enlightened us just so long as we could find houses where to rekindle
it, for the thing leaked outrageously and blew out with every gust. The more part of the night
we walked blindfold among sheets of rain, and day found us aimless on the mountains. Hard by
we struck a hut on a burn-side, where we got a bite and a direction; and, a little before the
end of the sermon, came to the kirk doors of Inverary.

The rain had somewhat washed the upper parts of me, but I was still bogged as high as to the
knees; I streamed water; I was so weary I could hardly limp, and my face was like a ghost's.
I stood certainly more in need of a change of raiment and a bed to lie on, than of all the
benefits in Christianity. For all which (being persuaded the chief point for me was to make
myself immediately public) I set the door open, entered that church with the dirty Duncan at
my tails, and finding a vacant place hard by, sat down.

"Thirteenthly, my brethren, and in parenthesis, the law itself must be regarded as a means
of grace," the minister was saying, in the voice of one delighting to pursue an argument.

The sermon was in English on account of the assize. The judges were present with their armed
attendants, the halberts glittered in a corner by the door, and the seats were thronged beyond
custom with the array of lawyers. The text was in Romans 5th and 13th--the minister a skilled
hand; and the whole of that able churchful--from Argyle, and my Lords Elchies and Kilkerran,
down to the halbertmen that came in their attendance--was sunk with gathered brows in a profound
critical attention. The minister himself and a sprinkling of those about the door observed
our entrance at the moment and immediately forgot the same; the rest either did not hear or
would not heed; and I sat there amongst my friends and enemies unremarked.

The first that I singled out was Prestongrange. He sat well forward, like an eager horseman
in the saddle, his lips moving with relish, his eyes glued on the minister: the doctrine was
clearly to his mind. Charles Stewart, on the other hand, was half asleep, and looked harassed
and pale. As for Symon Fraser, he appeared like a blot, and almost a scandal, in the midst
of that attentive congregation, digging his hands in his pockets, shifting his legs, clearing
his throat, rolling up his bald eyebrows and shooting out his eyes to right and left, now with
a yawn, now with a secret smile. At times too, he would take the Bible in front of him, run
it through, seem to read a bit, run it through again, and stop and yawn prodigiously: the whole
as if for exercise.

In the course of this restlessness his eye alighted on myself. He sat a second stupefied, than
tore a half leaf out of the Bible, scrawled upon it with a pencil, and passed it with a whispered
word to his next neighbor. The note came to Prestongrange, who gave me but the one look; thence
it voyaged to the hands of Mr. Erskine; thence again to Argyle, where he sat between the other
two lords of session, and his Grace turned and fixed me with an arrogant eye. The last of those
interested to observe my presence was Charlie Stewart, and he too began to pencil and hand
about despatches, none of which I was able to trace to their destination in the crowd.

But the passage of these notes had aroused notice; all who were in the secret (or supposed
themselves to be so) were whispering information--the rest questions; and the minister himself
seemed quite discountenanced by the flutter in the church and sudden stir and whispering. His
voice changed, he plainly faltered, nor did he again recover the easy conviction and full tones
of his delivery. It would be a puzzle to him till his dying day, why a sermon that had gone
with triumph through four parts, should thus miscarry in the fifth.

As for me, I continued to sit there, very wet and weary, and a good deal anxious as to what
should happen next, but greatly exulting in my success.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XVII

THE MEMORIAL

The last word of the blessing was scarce out of the minister's mouth before Stewart had me
by the arm. We were the first to be forth of the church, and he made such extraordinary expedition
that we were safe within the four walls of a house before the street had begun to be thronged
with the home-going congregation.

"Am I yet in time?" I asked.

"Ay and no," said he. "The case is over; the jury is enclosed, and will be so kind as let us
ken their view of it to-morrow in the morning, the same as I could have told it my own self
three days ago before the play began. The thing has been public from the start. The panel kent
it, 'Ye may do what ye will for me,' whispers he two days ago. 'I ken my fate by what the Duke
of Argyle has just said to Mr. Macintosh.' O, it's been a scandal!

    The great Argyle he gaed before,
    He gart the cannons and guns to roar,

and the very macer cried 'Cruachan!' But now that I have got you again I'll never despair.
The oak shall go over the myrtle yet; we'll ding the Campbells yet in their own town. Praise
God that I should see the day!"

He was leaping with excitement, emptied out his mails upon the floor that I might have a change
of clothes, and incommoded me with his assistance as I changed. What remained to be done, or
how I was to do it, was what he never told me nor, I believe, so much as thought of. "We'll
ding the Camphells yet!" that was still his overcome. And it was forced home upon my mind how
this, that had the externals of a sober process of law, was in its essence a clan battle between
savage clans. I thought my friend the Writer none of the least savage. Who, that had only seen
him at a counsel's back before the Lord Ordinary or following a golf ball and laying down his
clubs on Bruntsfield links, could have recognised for the same person this voluble and violent
clansman?

James Stewart's counsel were four in number--Sheriffs Brown of Colstoun and Miller, Mr. Robert
Macintosh and Mr. Stewart younger of Stewart Hall. These were covenanted to dine with the Writer
after sermon, and I was very obligingly included of the party. No sooner the cloth lifted,
and the first bowl very artfully compounded by Sheriff Miller, than we fell to the subject
in hand. I made a short narration of my seizure and captivity, and was then examined and re-examined
upon the circumstances of the murder. It will be remembered this was the first time I had had
my say out, or the matter at all handled, among lawyers; and the consequence was very dispiriting
to the others and (I must own) disappointing to myself.

"To sum up," said Colstoun, "you prove that Alan was on the spot; you have heard him proffer
menaces against Glenure; and though you assure us he was not the man who fired, you leave a
strong impression that he was in league with him, and consenting, perhaps immediately assisting,
in the act. You show him besides, at the risk of his own liberty, actively furthering the criminal's
escape. And the rest of your testimony (so far as the least material) depends on the bare word
of Alan or of James, the two accused. In short, you do not at all break, but only lengthen
by one personage, the chain that binds our client to the murderer; and I need scarcely say
that the introduction of a third accomplice rather aggravates that appearance of a conspiracy
which has been our stumbling block from the beginning."

"I am of the same opinion," said Sheriff Miller. "I think we may all be very much obliged to
Prestongrange for taking a most uncomfortable witness out of our way. And chiefly, I think,
Mr. Balfour himself might be obliged. For you talk of a third accomplice, but Mr. Balfour (in
my view) has very much the appearance of a fourth."

"Allow me, sirs!" interposed Stewart the Writer. "There is another view. Here we have a witness--never
fash whether material or not--a witness in this cause, kidnapped by that old, lawless, bandit
crew of the Glengyle Macgregors, and sequestered for near upon a month in a bourock of old
cold ruins on the Bass. Move that and see what dirt you fling on the proceedings! Sirs, this
is a tale to make the world ring with! It would be strange, with such a grip as this, if we
couldnae squeeze out a pardon for my client."

"And suppose we took up Mr. Balfour's cause to-morrow?" said Stewart Hall. "I am much deceived
or we should find so many impediments thrown in our path, as that James should have been hanged
before we had found a court to hear us. This is a great scandal, but I suppose we have none
of us forgot a greater still, I mean the matter of the Lady Grange. The woman was still in
durance; my friend Mr. Hope of Rankeillor did what was humanly possible; and how did he speed?
He never got a warrant! Well, it'll be the same now; the same weapons will be used. This is
a scene, gentlemen, of clan animosity. The hatred of the name which I have the honor to bear,
rages in high quarters. There is nothing here to be viewed but naked Campbell spite and scurvy
Campbell intrigue."

You may be sure this was to touch a welcome topic, and I sat for some time in the midst of
my learned counsel, almost deaved with their talk but extremely little the wiser for its purport.
The Writer was led into some hot expressions; Colstoun must take him up and set him right;
the rest joined in on different sides, but all pretty noisy; the Duke of Argyle was beaten
like a blanket; King George came in for a few digs in the by-going and a great deal of rather
elaborate defence: and there was only one person that seemed to be forgotten, and that was
James of the Glens. 

Blumenbach says, too, that'according to the most correct observations they are certainly viviparous.'He
adds also, that, the eel is so tenacious of life, that its heart, when removed from the body, retains
its irritability for forty hours afterwards.

"We are not inclined to attach very considerable importance to Mr. Bingley's experience, much
as we admire his entertaining Animal Biography: we believe him to
be classed among book-naturalists, and he wrote this work many years
since.

It came presently. Colstoun had wound up one of his speeches with some expression of their
duty to their client. His brother sheriff was pleased, I suppose, with the transition. He took
the table in his confidence with a gesture and a look.

"That suggests to me a consideration which seems overlooked," said he. "The interest of our
client goes certainly before all, but the world does not come to an end with James Stewart."
Whereat he cocked his eye. "I might condescend, exempli gratia, upon a Mr. George Brown, a
Mr. Thomas Miller, and a Mr. David Balfour. Mr. David Balfour has a very good ground of complaint,
and I think, gentlemen--if his story was properly red out--I think there would be a number
of wigs on the green."

The whole table turned to him with a common movement.

"Properly handled and carefully red out, his is a story that could scarcely fail to have some
consequence," he continued. It was my privilege to take a brief ride at the front in an antebellum
motor bus of glorious memory-- there being nothing left in Paris but the subway. Buses are now used
to carry fresh meat, although they have been used in transporting
troops and also ammunition. "And I need not point out to ye that this of
Mr. Balfour's would be a remarkable bonny cause to appear in," he added.

Well, there they all were started on another hare; Mr. Balfour's cause, and what kind of speeches
could be there delivered, and what officials could be thus turned out, and who would succeed
to their positions. I shall give but the two specimens. It was proposed to approach Symon Fraser,
whose testimony, if it could be obtained, could prove certainly fatal to Argyle and Prestongrange.
Miller highly approved of the attempt. Hargrave (very mysteriously).-- "I hassure you, Ma'am,
I am not haccustomed, that is, Ma'am, it is no business of mine. I ham not in the'abits of touching
corpses and hexcuse me, Ma'am, this is so very-- oh dear me whathever'as
come hover me.

"Gentlemen," cried he, charging his glass, "here is to Sheriff Miller. His legal abilities
are known to all. His culinary, this bowl in front of us is here to speak for. But when it
comes to the poleetical!"--cries he, and drains the glass.

"Ay, but it will hardly prove politics in your meaning, my friend," said the gratified Miller.
"A revolution, if you like, and I think I can promise you that historical writers shall date
from Mr. Balfour's cause. But properly guided, Mr. Stewart, tenderly guided, it shall prove
a peaceful revolution."

"And if the damned Campbells get their ears rubbed, what care I?" cries Stewart, smiting down
his fist.

It will be thought I was not very well pleased with all this, though I could scarce forbear
smiling at a kind of innocency in these old intriguers. But it was not my view to have undergone
so many sorrows for the advancement of Sheriff Miller or to make a revolution in the Parliament
House: and I interposed accordingly with as much simplicity of manner as I could assume. 

Society was obliged to choose between two evils, and it chose what it regarded as the lesser. Contraceptives
thereafter came into common use, are now purchased by a majority of married couples, and by many
unmarried persons.

They seemed all a hair set back, and gave various answers, but concurring practically in one
point, that James had now no hope but in the King's mercy.

"To proceed, then," said I, "will it do any good to Scotland? We have a saying that it is an
ill bird that fouls his own nest. I remember hearing we had a riot in Edinburgh when I was
an infant child, which gave occasion to the late Queen to call this country barbarous; and
I always understood that we had rather lost than gained by that. Then came the year 'Forty-five,
which made Scotland to be talked of everywhere; but I never heard it said we had anyway gained
by the 'Forty-five. And now we come to this cause of Mr. Balfour's, as you call it. Sheriff
Miller tells us historical writers are to date from it, and I would not wonder. It is only
my fear they would date from it as a period of calamity and public reproach."

