VATSLAF A. HLASKO and THOS. H. BULLICK

R. F. FENNO & COMPANY : 9 AND 11 EAST SIXTEENTH STREET : : NEW YORK CITY 1898

Copyright, 1897

BY

R. F. FENNO & COMPANY

SIELANKA.

An Idyll.

In the woods, in the deep woods, was an open glade in which stood the house of the forester
Stephan. The house was built of logs packed with moss, and the roof was thatched with straw;
hard by the house stood two outbuildings; in front of it was a piece of fenced-in ground, and
an old well with a long, crooked sweep; the water in the well was covered with a green vegetation
at the edges.

Opposite the windows grew sunflowers and wild hollyhocks, high, stately, and covered with blossoms
as if with a swarm of gorgeous butterflies; between the sunflowers there peeped the red heads
of the poppy; around the hollyhocks entwined sweet peas with pink blossoms and morning-glories;
close to the ground grew nasturtiums, marigolds, primroses, and asters, pale because they were
shaded from the sunlight by the leaves of the hollyhocks and sunflowers.

The fenced ground on either side of the pathway leading to the house was planted with vegetables--carrots,
beets, and cabbage; further off in a separate fenced-in lot there waved with each breath of
wind the tender blue flower of the flax; still beyond could be seen the dark green of the potato
patch; the rest of the clearing was checkered with the variegated shades of the different cereals
that ran to the edge of the lake which touched the glade on one side.

Near to the house a few trees were growing. Some were cherry trees, and one was a birch, with
long, slender branches which swayed in the wind, and with every breeze its leaves touched the
dilapidated moss-covered straw thatch of the roof; when the stronger gusts of wind bent its
boughs to the wall, and pressed its twigs and the waves of leaves against the roof, it would
seem as if the tree loved the house and embraced it.

In this tree the sparrows made their home; the rustling of the leaves and twigs commingled
with the chirp and joyous noise of the birds; in the eaves of the house the doves had built
their nests, and the place was filled with their speech, cooing and calling to each other,
entreating and discussing as is customary between doves, these noisy and talkative people.

At times it happened that they were startled by some unknown cause; then around the house was
heard a loud flapping, the air was filled with the whirl of wings and a multitude of white-feathered
breasts; you could hear tumult, noise and excited cries--the whole flock flew out suddenly,
circled round the house, now near, now far off. Sometimes they melted in the blue, sometimes
their white feathers reflected the sunlight, again they hung over the house, undulating in
the air, and alighting at last like a downfall of snowflakes on the gray straw of the roof.

If this occurred in the rosy morning or in the splendor of the red setting sun, then in the
glory of the air these doves were not white, but tinted pink, and settled on the roof and birch
tree as flames or scattered rose leaves.

At twilight, when the sun had hidden itself beyond the woods, this cooing under the roof and
chirping in the birch tree became gradually quiet. The sparrows and the doves shook the dew
from their wings and prepared to sleep; sometimes one of them gave voice once more, but more
rarely, more softly, more drowsily, and then all was silent--the dusk was falling from the
heavens upon the earth. The house, cherry trees, and birch were losing their form, mingling
together, melting, and veiled in a mist which rose from the lake.

Around the glade, as far as the eye could reach, there stretched the wall of dark pine trees
and thick undergrowth. This wall was broken in one place by a wide dividing line, which reached
to the edge of the lake. The lake was a very large one, the opposite side was nearly lost to
view, and in the mist could be hardly discerned the red roof and steeple of a church, and the
black line of the woods closing the horizon beyond the church.

The pines were looking from the high sandy banks upon their reflection in the lake as if in
a mirror, and it seemed as if there was another forest in the water; and when the trees were
swaying on the earth they were also swaying in the water, and when they quivered on the earth
they seemed to quiver in the water; as they stood in the still air motionless, then every needle
of the pines was painted distinctly on the smooth, unruffled surface, and the straight trunks
of the trees standing like rows of pillars reaching afar off into infinity. In the middle of
the lake the water in the daytime reflected the sun, and in the morning and the evening the
glories of its rising and its setting; at night the moon and stars; and it seemed to be as
deep as the dome of the sky above us is high, beyond the sun, moon, and stars.

In the house dwelt the forester, named Stephan, and his daughter, Kasya, a maiden of sixteen.
Kasya was the light of the household, as bright and fresh as the morning. She was brought up
in great innocence and in the fear of God. Her uncle, who was now dead, and who was a poor
but devout man, the organist of the neighboring church, had taught her to read her prayer book,
and her education was perfected by her communing with nature. The bees taught her to work,
the doves taught her purity, the happy sparrows to speak joyfully to her father, the quiet
water taught her peace, the serenity of the sky taught her contemplation, the matin-bell of
the distant church called her to devotion, and the universal good in all nature, which reflected
the love of God, sank deep into her soul.

Therefore the father and Kasya led a peaceful and happy life, surrounded by the silence and
solitude of the woods.

One noon, before Ascension Day, Stephan came home to his dinner. He had visited a large tract
of the forest, so he arrived weary, having returned through the thickets of the swamp. Kasya
placed the dinner on the table, and after they had finished and she had fed the dog and washed
the dishes, she said:

"Papa."

"What is it?"

"I shall go into the woods."

"Go, go," adding jestingly, "and let some wolf or wild beast devour you."

"I shall go and gather herbs. To-morrow is Ascension Day and they will be needed in the church."

"If so, you can go."

She covered her head with a yellow kerchief embroidered with blue flowers, and looking for
her basket she began singing:

  "The falcon came flying, the falcon came grey."

The old man began to grumble: "If you were as fond of working as you are of singing."

Kasya, who was standing on her tiptoes to look on a shelf, turned her head to her father, laughed
merrily, and showing her white teeth, sang again as if to tease him:

  "He hoots in the woods and the cuckoo's his prey."

"You would be glad yourself to be a cuckoo until a falcon came," said the old man. "Perhaps
'tis falcon who is at the turpentine works? but this is folly. You can't earn a piece of bread
by singing."

Kasya again sang:

  "Hoot not thou, my falcon, unhappy thy quest,
  In the depths of the lake thy cuckoo doth rest."

Then she said:

"Wilt thou decorate the room with the evergreens for to-morrow? I shall return in time to milk
the cows, but they should be brought from the pasture."

She found her basket, kissed her father, and went out. Old Stephan got his unfinished fishing-net,
and seated himself on a bench outside the door. He gathered his twine, and half-closing one
eye he tried to thread his netting needle; after several attempts he succeeded and began to work.

