On the re-appearance of cholera, during the summer of 1849, my mind was peculiarly affected,
from the belief that a false theory of circulation prevailed, although there was a true theory,
which, if generally believed, might lead to the knowledge of the cause and cure of this terrific
malady; and thus thousands of lives be saved which would otherwise be lost. This thought almost
distracted me; and believing that my sex stood in the way of my theory's being acknowledged,
I sometimes wished that it might please God to take me out of the world. Then coming to better
thoughts; I cast away despondency as unworthy of me; and determined to proceed to the further
investigation and development of the great truth, of which I had, as I believed, been made
the unworthy recipient. I studied my theory anew, while I read the most approved works on cholera;
and I came to the belief that imperfect respiration, caused by the want of due oxygen in the
air, was the principal predisposing cause of the premonitory symptoms; while the death that
supervened was often caused by the settling of carbonic acid gas, the residuum of animal combustion,
in the lower air-cells of the lungs. The symptoms of the cholera, as treated by the best writers,
were full of new proofs of the truth of my theory, especially of its last step, the formation
of steam or vapor in the lungs. Without that, the collapse of cholera was a fearful mystery;
with it, everything was plain. With a coldness that would collapse the lungs, the bowels must
naturally be drawn up (and with dreadful pains) to supply their place. The ghastly change in
the face must occur when cold has condensed its arterial vapor. If respiration could restore
heat, before any lesions had taken place in the organism, the patient might recover. Then I
began rewriting my theory in a work afterwards published, with the title, "Respiration and
its Effects, especially in relation to Asiatic Cholera and other Sinking Diseases."

While thus occupied, the debilitating air of the season weighed upon my health and spirits.
I had been affected for about three days with what I regarded as the ordinary complaints of
the season, when one night, after my family had retired, I found myself suddenly very ill--my
symptoms being coldness, debility, and spasmodic pains. I believed myself to be attacked with
cholera. I efficiently practised the artificial respiration in fresh air as before described.
Gaining strength as I proceeded, I soon found a death-like coldness giving place to genial
warmth. Violent exercise, with artificial breathing, was kept up some time, with such rests
and full free breathings as nature required; after which, I slept, perspired profusely, and
was well in the morning.

This was an occurrence which sunk deep into my mind; and the more so, as I could not speak
much of it, for the truth was too improbable to be believed. But the successful issue of this,
my first experiment upon the dreaded disease, prepared me to act with boldness and efficiency
in a case which occurred in my own house about a week after.

On the 14th of August, 1849, Jane Phayre, an Irish woman in my service, of about twenty-five
years of age, having been ill for four days with diarrhœa, was suddenly struck with what the
French call cholera foudroyant--from fright. Alarmed by unwonted sounds near her window in
a basement room, she mounted the window-seat to look out at the top sash, and found her face
close to that of a man dying of cholera, who in his death-cramps was brought from a steamboat
on a litter, and thus rested upon the pavement. The cover was lifted from his face, and the
sight and the smell struck her with faintness and trembling; and with difficulty she reached
her bed. I was called to go to her quickly by Eliza Fagan, who said that Jane was very bad.
She had a clay-cold death-look, and a frightful blackness around her eyes. Her face, as I saw
it, was livid, pinched in features, and corpse-like, and her pulse but a feeble flutter; and
she seemed only to breathe from the top of her lungs. She tried, as she afterwards told me,
to say, "I am dying," but her speech was husky and inarticulate. She says her sight and hearing
were gone; and while Eliza and I were dragging her out of doors, she could not see the window,
and did not feel her feet. We placed her in an upright position, with her back resting against
a board-wall, a fresh breeze blowing full in her face. Her senses were now partially restored.
I told her to breathe violently, for she must get the bad air out of her lungs and the good
air in; and I showed her how she must do it. At first she said, "I can't, for something rises
up in the inside." When I told her, sternly, that her life depended on it, and she must, she
tried to obey me. At first, it gave her severe headache, but as soon as deep breathing was
fairly begun, while I was watching her face with intense anxiety, the color changed from the
clay-cold death-look to the full flush of the warm hue of life, and she joyfully exclaimed,
"Oh! I feel well!"

When the removal of carbonic acid gas had made way for oxygen to be brought to the yet uninjured
lungs, the carbon of the venous blood ignited, the motive power was furnished, the blood was
again moved forward into the arterial system, and the dammed up venous current, receiving the
suction force, rushed on so violently as at times nearly to produce suffocation; but the struggle
was soon over, and the lungs, free both from carbonic acid gas and an unnatural quantity of
venous blood, once more received pure air--and to the relieved sufferer respiration became
delightful--the circulation passed freely through an unbroken system--and THE CHOLERA WAS CURED.

Was there, in the whole wide world, another person besides myself who would have taken such
a living corpse, dragged it out of doors, and set it upright, on feet which could not feel,
with the expectation that it might breathe out death, breathe in life, and be restored? The
result is a proof, a posteriori; that the theory on which the experiment was made is true.

Other cases occurred, where, under different circumstances, cures of cholera were effected.
One, as instantaneous, and in some respects as remarkable as that of Jane Phayre, was that
of my friend and former pupil, Mrs. Gen. Gould, of Rochester, who sent for me, believing herself
to be dying of cholera. I have her letter, which, by permission, is published in my work on
Respiration; and also a letter from her physician, Dr. Bloss, of Troy, testifying that her
disease was cholera, and that he had little hope of her restoration. This letter is published
in the appendix of a report on my theory, read in Buffalo, August 8th, 1851, to a convention
of the New York State Association of Teachers.

In my journeying to New York city, to attend their previous convention in August, 1850, an
accident obliged me to walk for some distance, in the middle of a hot day. The convention sat
in Hope Chapel, which was poorly ventilated; and in the evening, I sat under a large gas-burner.
On entering my room at the New-York Hotel, which was on the ground floor, situated where the
only air was from a confined, central enclosure, I perceived at the only window a strong smell
of fresh paint from the outer walls, so that I was obliged to close it. Being excessively fatigued,
I slept heavily--till at early dawn I awaked to find myself in a dying state. Attempting to
move my arms, they were like lead by my side--and my breath was but a feeble gasp. Without
the knowledge of my theory--my bane, as many of my friends have thought--I should then have
had no antidote. But I knew where was the destroying agent, and what was the only means by
which I had a chance of removing it; and I used the little strength I had left to breathe deeper,
and then to strive for a better position. Long and doubtful was the struggle. It was ten o'clock
when, with tottering steps, I got into a carriage, and sought the free fresh air, which enabled
me to take a little food. In the evening, I went into the Teacher's Convention, having first
ordered from my publisher a sufficient number of my books on Respiration to present one to
each member; and then, at my request, a Committee of Investigation was appointed by the convention
to report on my theory. They reported favorably to the succeeding convention at Buffalo, which
adopted the report, and I published and circulated it. This committee I had been allowed to
choose, and it consisted of my friend, Prof. Twiss--the first believer in the theory--and Mr. Fellows,
that Professor of Natural Philosophy, who formerly assisted in making my apparatus.

Mr. Fellows carried the report to Buffalo, and when he read it in the convention, editors immediately
came to him to request copies for the press. But, by the influence of physicians, they afterwards
declined it when offered. It seemed to be the general plan of the regular faculty (in the Eastern,
not the Western, States) to put the theory into a condition resembling the algide state of
cholera, where it would die of coldness; but, by the aid of Divine Providence, it will, like
its author, restore itself by its own inherent vitality--the vitality of immortal truth.

SECTION IV.

Proofs from Dr. Cartwright's Great Experiments on
    Alligators--Resuscitation of Dr. Ely's Child--Dr. Bowling, Editor of
    the Nashville Medical Journal, endorses Dr. Washington, who, in that
    journal, "crushes out" all Opposition to the Theory--Dr. Draper's
    Acknowledgment of it in New York--Homœopathists--Conclusion.

TO DR. MARCY. Thus, for thirty years, had I maintained, not only without public support, but
against discouragements, these great truths, of which I had been allowed for myself such life-giving
evidence. But early in December, 1851, Dr. Cartwright, then of New Orleans, announced in a
letter to me that he had publicly become my advocate. His name will ever be connected with
the theory, on account of the remarkable experiments by which he demonstrated its truth. In
the presence of eminent physicians, and other scientific persons, he resuscitated an alligator
which had been killed by tying the trachea. After an hour, when neither fire nor the dissecting
knife produced signs of pain, Dr. Dowler[7] laid bare the lungs and the heart. Then a hole
was cut in the trachea, below the ligature, and a blow-pipe was introduced, which Professor
Forshey[7] worked with violence. At length, a faint quivering of moving blood was seen in the
diaphanous veins of the lungs. The inflating process being continued, the blood next began
to run in streams from the lungs into the quiescent heart. The heart began first to quiver,
then to pulsate; and signs of life elsewhere appearing, the animal began to move; and soon,
strong men could not hold him. Again they bound him to the table, and kept the trachea tied
until life was apparently extinct; when, again inflating his lungs, he so thoroughly revived
that he became dangerous, snapping at everything, and breaking his cords. For the third time,
the trachea was ligatured--the animal expired, and was resuscitated.

Dr. Cartwright says in his letter to me, published in the Boston Medical Journal, January 7th,
1852, "By this resuscitation, your theory of the motive power of the circulation of the blood
was established beyond all doubt or dispute." "This vivisection clearly proved that the primum
mobile of the circulation, and the chief motive powers of the blood, are in the lungs, and
not in the heart." Dr. Cartwright mentioned, in the same letter, a case in which his faith
in my theory had saved the life of a breathless infant--inducing him to unwonted perseverance
in inflating its lungs.

Able opposers to the theory, however, arose in New Orleans, some of whom believed that the
resuscitation might have been effected by applications to the nerves. Dr. Cartwright procured,
from Gen. Jackson's battle ground, another alligator, which was publicly killed and vivisected.
The doctor's opponents first tried their means to bring the animal to life, and failed. Then
he, by artificial respiration, restored the huge reptile as before;--thus proving that artificial
respiration could restore suspended animation when nothing else could.

Dr. Ely was one who had opposed and written against the theory. In the meantime, his infant
son had cholera, and expired. His medical friends had left him, and crape was tied to the handle
of the front door. Standing by the side of his lifeless babe, Dr. Ely said to himself, "If
this theory should be true, I might yet save my child." And profiting by the example of Dr. Cartwright
in restoring the dead alligator, he restored his child to life. Remitting his efforts too soon--again
the infant ceased to breathe. And again, and yet the third time, the father restored him--when
the resuscitation proved complete; and months after, the child was living and in perfect health.
Dr. Ely then came promptly forward, and, like a nobly honest man, reported the case as convincing
evidence of a truth which he had formerly opposed.[8]

Whoever wishes to know the history of theories concerning the motive powers of the blood as
they then stood, may learn them by looking over files of the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal,
edited by Dr. J. V. C. Smith, for the years 1852-'53, and a part of 1854. Dr. Cartwright wrote
for it during those years; and, encouraged by his protection, I frequently answered objections,
which flowed in from various medical opponents. The objection derived from the fœtal circulation,
I answered thus, in the Journal, of May, 1852: "The change occurring at birth, so far from
falsifying this theory, affords presumptive proof of its truth. When first the air enters the
trachea of a new born infant, and animal combustion begins, the inflation of the lungs must
open the vessels and vesicles prepared to receive the venous blood. To fill the new-made vacuum,
the whole of the blood from the right ventricle rushes through the pulmonary tube, leaving
none to go through the ductus arteriosus, thus made useless, and henceforth to be abolished.
But what is to move the blood from the capillaries of the lungs? The heart's force, insufficient
before without aid from the mother's respiration, is now divided, while its work is doubled.
A new power must then be generated by the meeting of the air with the carbon of the blood,
enkindled by the peculiar functional vitality of the lungs. Without such a power, no perceptible
cause exists sufficient to move the blood onward to the left ventricle. But it is moved thither,
and with a power which presses down and closes the valve of the foramen ovale, thus clearly
manifesting that this current exceeds in force that in the right ventricle. Grant that the
new function of respiration has furnished a new power, and this astonishing instantaneous metamorphosis
from amphibious to mammalian life becomes perfectly intelligible, and the wisdom of the Creator
is fully vindicated; showing that His work has been truly interpreted."

