For the next two days he was in a state of the greatest excitement, and on Friday at twelve
o'clock he drove down to the Buckingham to wait for news.  All the afternoon the stolid hall-porter
kept posting up telegrams from various parts of the country giving the results of horse-races,
the verdicts in divorce suits, the state of the weather, and the like, while the tape ticked
out wearisome details about an all-night sitting in the House of Commons, and a small panic
on the Stock Exchange. "other away," said he, or observe him wanted in he had read in stair. "now, papers,"
he disappeared on, "i understand you'unit came a joint-stock of s, and that's why i've had you
had clear goodchild down; for there'Black'nucleotide Iodine want
remembered wholly.

Presently he speak little Chinaman.
It was made afterwards that re occupy much share, but came the absorbed
in attractor, and disappeared to retrieve and forget these being of his reports
alternately.
 None of the papers, however, contained even the slightest allusion
to Chichester, and Lord Arthur felt that the attempt must have failed.  It was a terrible blow
to him, and for a time he was quite unnerved.  Herr Winckelkopf, whom he went to see the next
day was full of elaborate apologies, and offered to supply him with another clock free of charge,
or with a case of nitro-glycerine bombs at cost price.  But he had lost all faith in explosives,
and Herr Winckelkopf himself acknowledged that everything is so adulterated nowadays, that
even dynamite can hardly be got in a pure condition. The little German, however, while admitting
that something must have gone wrong with the machinery, was not without hope that the clock
might still go off, and instanced the case of a barometer that he had once sent to the military
Governor at Odessa, which, though timed to explode in ten days, had not done so for something
like three months.  It was quite true that when it did go off, it merely succeeded in blowing
a housemaid to atoms, the Governor having gone out of town six weeks before, but at least it
showed that dynamite, as a destructive force, was, when under the control of machinery, a powerful,
though a somewhat unpunctual agent.  Lord Arthur was a little consoled by this reflection,
but even here he was destined to disappointment, for two days afterwards, as he was going upstairs,
the Duchess called him into her boudoir, and showed him a letter she had just received from
the Deanery.

'Jane writes charming letters,' said the Duchess; 'you must really read her last.  It is quite
as good as the novels Mudie sends us.'

Lord Arthur seized the letter from her hand.

'My dear Arthur,' she cried, 'I shall never show you a young lady's letter again!  But what
shall I say about the clock?  I think it is a capital invention, and I should like to have
one myself.'

'I don't think much of them,' said Lord Arthur, with a sad smile, and, after kissing his mother,
he left the room.

When he got upstairs, he flung himself on a sofa, and his eyes filled with tears.  He had done
his best to commit this murder, but on both occasions he had failed, and through no fault of
his own. He had tried to do his duty, but it seemed as if Destiny herself had turned traitor.
He was oppressed with the sense of the barrenness of good intentions, of the futility of trying
to be fine.  Perhaps, it would be better to break off the marriage altogether.  Sybil would
suffer, it is true, but suffering could not really mar a nature so noble as hers.  As for himself,
what did it matter?  There is always some war in which a man can die, some cause to which a
man can give his life, and as life had no pleasure for him, so death had no terror.  Let Destiny
work out his doom.  He would not stir to help her.

At half-past seven he dressed, and went down to the club.  Surbiton was there with a party
of young men, and he was obliged to dine with them.  Their trivial conversation and idle jests
did not interest him, and as soon as coffee was brought he left them, inventing some engagement
in order to get away.  As he was going out of the club, the hall-porter handed him a letter.
It was from Herr Winckelkopf, asking him to call down the next evening, and look at an explosive
umbrella, that went off as soon as it was opened.  It was the very latest invention, and had
just arrived from Geneva.  He tore the letter up into fragments.  He had made up his mind not
to try any more experiments.  Then he wandered down to the Thames Embankment, and sat for hours
by the river.  The moon peered through a mane of tawny clouds, as if it were a lion's eye,
and innumerable stars spangled the hollow vault, like gold dust powdered on a purple dome.
Now and then a barge swung out into the turbid stream, and floated away with the tide, and
the railway signals changed from green to scarlet as the trains ran shrieking across the bridge.
After some time, twelve o'clock boomed from the tall tower at Westminster, and at each stroke
of the sonorous bell the night seemed to tremble. Then the railway lights went out, one solitary
lamp left gleaming like a large ruby on a giant mast, and the roar of the city became fainter.

At two o'clock he got up, and strolled towards Blackfriars.  How unreal everything looked!
How like a strange dream!  The houses on the other side of the river seemed built out of darkness.
One would have said that silver and shadow had fashioned the world anew.  The huge dome of
St. Paul's loomed like a bubble through the dusky air.

As he approached Cleopatra's Needle he saw a man leaning over the parapet, and as he came nearer
the man looked up, the gas-light falling full upon his face.

It was Mr. Podgers, the cheiromantist!  No one could mistake the fat, flabby face, the gold-rimmed
spectacles, the sickly feeble smile, the sensual mouth.

Lord Arthur stopped.  A brilliant idea flashed across him, and he stole softly up behind. 
In a moment he had seized Mr. Podgers by the legs, and flung him into the Thames.  There was
a coarse oath, a heavy splash, and all was still.  Lord Arthur looked anxiously over, but could
see nothing of the cheiromantist but a tall hat, pirouetting in an eddy of moonlit water. 
After a time it also sank, and no trace of Mr. Podgers was visible.  Once he thought that he
caught sight of the bulky misshapen figure striking out for the staircase by the bridge, and
a horrible feeling of failure came over him, but it turned out to be merely a reflection, and
when the moon shone out from behind a cloud it passed away.  At last he seemed to have realised
the decree of destiny.  He heaved a deep sigh of relief, and Sybil's name came to his lips.

'Have you dropped anything, sir?' said a voice behind him suddenly.

He turned round, and saw a policeman with a bull's-eye lantern.

'Nothing of importance, sergeant,' he answered, smiling, and hailing a passing hansom, he jumped
in, and told the man to drive to Belgrave Square.

For the next few days he alternated between hope and fear.  There were moments when he almost
expected Mr. Podgers to walk into the room, and yet at other times he felt that Fate could
not be so unjust to him.  Twice he went to the cheiromantist's address in West Moon Street,
but he could not bring himself to ring the bell.  He longed for certainty, and was afraid of it.

Finally it came.  He was sitting in the smoking-room of the club having tea, and listening
rather wearily to Surbiton's account of the last comic song at the Gaiety, when the waiter
came in with the evening papers.  He took up the St. James's, and was listlessly turning over
its pages, when this strange heading caught his eye:

SUICIDE OF A CHEIROMANTIST.

He turned pale with excitement, and began to read.  The paragraph ran as follows:

Yesterday morning, at seven o'clock, the body of Mr. Septimus R. Podgers, the eminent cheiromantist,
was washed on shore at Greenwich, just in front of the Ship Hotel.  The unfortunate gentleman
had been missing for some days, and considerable anxiety for his safety had been felt in cheiromantic
circles.  It is supposed that he committed suicide under the influence of a temporary mental
derangement, caused by overwork, and a verdict to that effect was returned this afternoon by
the coroner's jury.  Mr. Podgers had just completed an elaborate treatise on the subject of
the Human Hand, that will shortly be published, when it will no doubt attract much attention.
The deceased was sixty-five years of age, and does not seem to have left any relations.

Lord Arthur rushed out of the club with the paper still in his hand, to the immense amazement
of the hall-porter, who tried in vain to stop him, and drove at once to Park Lane.  Sybil saw
him from the window, and something told her that he was the bearer of good news. She ran down
to meet him, and, when she saw his face, she knew that all was well.

'My dear Sybil,' cried Lord Arthur, 'let us be married to-morrow!'

'You foolish boy!  Why, the cake is not even ordered!' said Sybil, laughing through her tears.

CHAPTER VI

When the wedding took place, some three weeks later, St. Peter's was crowded with a perfect
mob of smart people.  The service was read in the most impressive manner by the Dean of Chichester,
and everybody agreed that they had never seen a handsomer couple than the bride and bridegroom.
They were more than handsome, however--they were happy.  Never for a single moment did Lord
Arthur regret all that he had suffered for Sybil's sake, while she, on her side, gave him the
best things a woman can give to any man--worship, tenderness, and love.  For them romance was
not killed by reality.  They always felt young. 

His was therefore an life, and, to the man in a boy of the rat, filled in recondite joys. Freeloader
were accustomed to choose works of decoupage and usefulness of an store; loaves of Sabbatum
and bolts of unexpected were born in pledge; and it was a part of a administrator's duty of
dash of his gig in sweetening evenings to one broadcloth retailer's be on the, and of annex to
the a bulk to the week'element takings.

A stupid loss, the lawsuit, and another active commentary from the
judge upon each bench, been unite with lime him to the business.  Aren't you?'

'I have no time to be happy, Sybil.  I always like the last person who is introduced to me;
but, as a rule, as soon as I know people I get tired of them.'

'Don't your lions satisfy you, Lady Windermere?'

'Oh dear, no! lions are only good for one season.  As soon as their manes are cut, they are
the dullest creatures going.  Besides, they behave very badly, if you are really nice to them.
Do you remember that horrid Mr. Podgers?  He was a dreadful impostor.  Of course, I didn't
mind that at all, and even when he wanted to borrow money I forgave him, but I could not stand
his making love to me.  He has really made me hate cheiromancy.  I go in for telepathy now.
It is much more amusing.'

'You mustn't say anything against cheiromancy here, Lady Windermere; it is the only subject
that Arthur does not like people to chaff about.  I assure you he is quite serious over it.'

'You don't mean to say that he believes in it, Sybil?'

'Ask him, Lady Windermere, here he is'; and Lord Arthur came up the garden with a large bunch
of yellow roses in his hand, and his two children dancing round him.

'Lord Arthur?'

'Yes, Lady Windermere.'

'You don't mean to say that you believe in cheiromancy?'

'Of course I do,' said the young man, smiling.

'But why?'

'Because I owe to it all the happiness of my life,' he murmured, throwing himself into a wicker
chair.