As this study had been written before the diplomatic correspondence in the matter was available,
the idea is tempting now to re-write the essay taking into account the arguments proffered
in Sir Edward Grey's despatch to the British Ambassador at Washington of November 14, 1912--see
Parliamentary Paper Cd. 6451--and, in answer thereto, in Mr Knox's despatch to the American
Chargé d'Affaires in London of January 17, 1913--see Parliamentary Paper Cd. 6585. But apart
from the fact that the immediate need of a second edition does not permit me time to re-write
the work, it seemed advisable to reprint the study in its original form, correcting only some
misprints and leaving out the footnote on page 5. It had been written sine ira et studio and
without further information than that which could be gathered from the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty,
the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, the Hay-Varilla Treaty, the Panama Canal Act, and the Memorandum
which President Taft left when signing that Act. Jupiter, disturbed against noise is bound of their croaking, inquired
the cause of their complaint.

The Frogs'Complaint by the Sun upon a TIME, when the Sunlight announced his intention to take a
wife, the Frogs lifted up their voices between the clamor to the sky.


L. O.

Cambridge, February 15, 1913.

CONTENTS

   I. Article III, No. 1 of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty of 1901 and
Section 5 of the American Panama Canal Act of 1912, pp. 5-6--The
Memorandum of President Taft, pp. 7-9--The interpretation of Article
III of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty preferred by the United States, pp.
9-11.

  II. The claim of the United States that she has granted the use of
the Panama Canal under a conditional most-favoured-nation clause, pp.
11-14--The United States has never possessed the power of refusing to
grant the use of the Panama Canal to vessels of foreign nations on
terms of entire equality, p. 15--Such use is the condition under which
Great Britain consented to the substitution of the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty for the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty, p. 16.

 III. If the use of the Panama Canal by vessels of foreign nations
were derived from most-favoured-nation treatment, the United States
would not be bound to submit to the rules of Article III, Nos. 2-6, of
the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, p. 17--The Panama Canal would then lose its
neutral character and would be in danger of eventually being made the
theatre of war, p. 18--But it is the intention of the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty permanently to neutralise the Panama Canal, p. 18--The three
objects of the neutralisation of an Inter Oceanic Canal, pp. 19-20--Is
the United States, under the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, subjected to more
onerous conditions than Turkey and Egypt are under the Suez Canal
Treaty?, pp. 20-22.

  IV. Six reasons for the untenability of the American interpretation
of Article III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, p. 23--The
stipulation of Article VIII of the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty, p. 23--The
motive for, and the condition of, the substitution of the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty for the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty, p. 24--The rules of the Suez
Canal Treaty which serve as the basis of the neutralisation of the
Panama Canal, p. 25--Literal meaning of the words "all nations," p.
26--Importance of Article IV of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, p. 26--The
various contingencies contemplated by Article II of the same treaty, p.
27.

   V. The American contention that the exemption of American coasting
trade vessels from the payment of canal tolls does not discriminate
against foreign vessels, p. 29--Every vessel shall bear a proportionate
part of the cost of the Panama Canal, p. 30--Meaning of the term
"coasting trade" as upheld by the United States, pp. 30-33--Coasting
trade vessels of the United States can trade with Mexican and South
American ports, p. 33--Any special favour to a particular nation
involves discrimination against other nations, p. 34.

  VI. Is the United States prevented from refunding to her vessels the
tolls levied upon them for use in the Panama Canal?, pp. 34-35--Difference
of such refunding from exempting the vessels concerned from the payment
of tolls, p. 35.

 VII. Prominent members of the Senate and many American newspapers
condemn the special privileges granted to American vessels by the
Panama Canal Act, p. 36--The defeated Bard Amendment of 1900, p. 37.

VIII. Two schools of thought concerning the relations between International and Municipal Law,
p. 38--The maxim that International Law overrules Municipal Law, p. 39--The doctrine that International
and Municipal Law are two essentially different bodies of law, p. 39--The two maxims of the
practice of the American Courts, pp. 40-42--President Taft's message to Congress suggesting
a resolution which would have empowered the American Courts to decide the question as to whether
Section 5 of the Panama Canal Act violates Article III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty,
pp. 42-44.

  IX. The Panama Canal conflict and the British-American Arbitration
Treaty, pp. 44-45--Does the term "interests" mean "advantages" or
"rights"?, p. 46--Pacta tertiis nec nocent nec prosunt, p. 47--The
exemption of the vessels of the Republic of Panama from payment of
tolls, pp. 48-50.

   X. Why it must be expected that the Panama Canal conflict will be
settled by arbitration, pp. 51-52--Mr Thomas Willing Balch's letter
to the New York Sun, pp. 53-57. Such conditions and charges of traffic shall be just
    and equitable."

By Section 5 of the Panama Canal Act of August 24, 1912, the President of the United States
is authorised to prescribe, and from time to time to change, the tolls to be levied upon vessels
using the Panama Canal, but the section orders that no tolls whatever shall be levied upon
vessels engaged in the coasting trade of the United States, and also that, if the tolls to
be charged should be based upon net registered tonnage for ships of commerce, the tolls shall
not exceed one dollar and twenty-five cents per net registered ton nor be less, for other vessels
than those of the United States or her citizens, than the estimated proportionate cost of the
actual maintenance and operation of the Canal[1].

      [1] As regards the enactment of Section 5 of the Panama Canal Act
      that the vessels of the Republic of Panama shall be entirely
      exempt from the payment of tolls, see below IX, p. 48.

Now Great Britain asserts that since these enactments set forth in Section 5 of the Panama
Canal Act are in favour of vessels of the United States, they comprise a violation of Article
III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty which stipulates that the vessels of all nations shall
be treated on terms of entire equality.

This assertion made by Great Britain is met by the Memorandum which, when signing the Panama
Canal Act, President Taft left to accompany the Act. The President contends that, in view of
the fact that the Panama Canal has been constructed by the United States wholly at her own
cost, upon territory ceded to her by the Republic of Panama, the United States possesses the
power to allow her own vessels to use the Canal upon such terms as she sees fit, and that she
may, therefore, permit her vessels to pass through the Canal either without the payment of
any tolls, or on payment of lower tolls than those levied upon foreign vessels, and that she
may remit to her own vessels any tolls which may have been levied upon them for the use of
the Canal. The President denies that Article III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty can be
invoked against such power of the United States, and he contends that this Article III was
adopted by the United States for a specific purpose, namely, as a basis of the neutralisation
of the Canal, and for no other purpose. This article, the President says, is a declaration
of policy by the United States that the Canal shall be neutral; that the attitude of the Government
of the United States is that all nations will be treated alike and no discrimination is to
be made against any one of them observing the five conditions enumerated in Article III, Nos.
2-6. The right to the use of the Canal and to equality of treatment in the use depends upon
the observance of the conditions by the nations to whom the United States has extended that
privilege. The privileges of all nations to which the use of the Canal has been granted subject
to the observance of the conditions for its use, are to be equal to the privileges granted
to any one of them which observes those conditions. In other words--so the President continues--the
privilege to use the Canal is a conditional most-favoured-nation treatment, the measure of
which, in the absence of an express stipulation to that effect, is not what the United States
gives to her own subjects, but the treatment to which she submits other nations.

From these arguments of the President it becomes apparent that the United States interprets
Article III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty as stipulating no discrimination against foreign
nations, but as leaving it open to her to grant any privilege she likes to her own vessels.
According to this interpretation, the rules for the use of the Canal are merely a basis of
the neutrality which the United States was willing should be characteristic of the Canal, and
are not intended to limit or hamper the United States in the exercise of her sovereign power
in dealing with her own commerce or in using her own Canal in whatever manner she sees fit.
The President specifically claims the right of the United States eventually to allow her own
vessels to use the Canal without the payment of any tolls whatever, for the reason that foreign
States could not be prevented from refunding to their vessels tolls levied upon them for the
use of the Canal. Engracigna had rushed to her side in alarm; everyone poor, seeking the reason
upon the outburst; they surrounded the charming creature, whose head had sink in the table,
for the midst of the rose petals, the fruits and the glasses which
were strewn in rose confusion. Since the rules of
the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty did not provide, as a condition for the privilege of the use of the
Canal upon equal terms with other nations, that other nations desiring to build up a particular
trade, involving the use of the Canal, should neither directly agree to pay the tolls nor refund
to their vessels tolls levied, it is evident that the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty does not affect
the right of the United States to refund tolls to her vessels, unless it is claimed that rules
ensuring all nations against discrimination would authorise the United States to require that
no foreign nation should grant to its shipping larger subsidies or more liberal inducements
to use the Canal than were granted by any other nation.

II.

It cannot be denied that at the first glance the arguments of the United States appear to be
somewhat convincing. On further consideration, however, one is struck by the fact that the
whole argumentation starts from, and is based upon, an absolutely wrong presupposition, namely,
that the United States is not in any way restricted by the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty with regard
to the Panama Canal, but has granted to foreign nations the use of the Canal under a conditional
most-favoured-nation clause.

This presupposition in no way agrees with the historical facts. When the conclusion of the
Hay-Pauncefote Treaty was under consideration, in 1901, the United States had not made the
Canal, indeed did not own the territory through which the Canal has now been made; nor was
the United States at that time absolutely unfettered with regard to the projected Canal, for
she was bound by the stipulations of the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty of 1850. Under this treaty she
was bound by more onerous conditions with regard to a future Panama Canal than she is now under
the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty. Since she did not own the Canal territory and had not made the Canal
at the time when she agreed with Great Britain upon the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, she ought not
to maintain that she granted to foreign nations the privilege of using her Canal under a conditional
most-favoured-nation clause, she herself remaining unfettered with regard to the conditions
under which she could allow her own vessels the use of the Canal. The historical facts are
five in number:--

Firstly, in 1850, Great Britain and the United States, by the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty, agreed
that neither of them would ever obtain or maintain for herself any exclusive control over a
future Panama Canal, or fortify it, or occupy or colonise any part of Central America; that
the Canal should be neutralised, should be open to the vessels of all nations under conditions
of equality; and so forth.

Secondly, in 1901, the two parties to the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty agreed to substitute for it
the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, Article II of which expressly stipulates inter alia that the Canal
may be constructed under the auspices of the Government of the United States and that the said
Government, subject to the provisions of Articles III and IV, shall have the exclusive right
of providing for the regulation and management of the Canal.

Fourthly, the parties agreed--see Article IV of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty--that no change of
the territorial sovereignty or of the international relations of the country or countries traversed
by the future Canal should affect the general principle of the neutralisation or the obligation
of the parties under the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty.

Fifthly, when, in 1903, the United States by the Hay-Varilla Treaty, acquired from the Republic
of Panama the strip of territory necessary for the construction, administration, and protection
of the Canal, she acquired sovereign rights over this territory and the future Canal subject
to the antecedent restrictions imposed upon her by the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, for Article IV
of the latter stipulates expressly that no change of territorial sovereignty over the territory
concerned shall affect the neutralisation or obligation of the parties under the treaty.

These are the unshakable historical facts. The United States did not first become the sovereign
of the Canal territory and make the Canal, and afterwards grant to foreign nations the privilege
of using the Canal under certain conditions. No, she has never possessed the power of refusing
to grant the use of the Canal to vessels of foreign nations on terms of entire equality, should
she ever make the Canal. Free navigation through the Canal for vessels of all nations on terms
of entire equality, provided these nations were ready to recognise the neutrality of the Canal,
was stipulated by the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty, and this stipulation was essentially upheld by
the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, and it was not until two years after the conclusion of the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty that the United States acquired sovereign rights over the Canal territory and made preparations
for the construction of the Canal. For this reason the contention of the United States that
she has granted to foreign nations the use of the Canal under certain conditions and that such
grant includes a conditional most-favoured-nation treatment, is absolutely baseless and out
of place. She has not granted anything, the free use of the Canal by vessels of all nations
having been the condition under which Great Britain consented to the abrogation of the Clayton-Bulwer
Treaty and to the stipulation of Article II of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty according to which--in
contradistinction to Article I of the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty--the United States is allowed to
have a canal constructed under her auspices.

III. She could, therefore, if she were a belligerent, commit acts of hostility in the Canal
against vessels of her opponent; could let her own men-of-war revictual or take in stores within
the Canal even if there were no strict necessity for doing so; could embark and disembark troops,
munitions of war, or warlike materials in the Canal, although all these were destined to be
made use of during the war generally, and not only for the defence of the Canal against a possible
attack. There ought, however, to be no doubt that the United States is as much bound to obey
the rules of Article III of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty as Great Britain or any other foreign
State. These rules are intended to invest the Canal with the character of neutrality. If the
United States were not bound to obey them, the Canal would lose its neutral character, and,
in case she were a belligerent, her opponent would be justified in considering the Canal a
part of the region of war and could, therefore, make it the theatre of war. The mere fact that
Article III of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty refers to the rules in existence concerning the neutralisation
of the Suez Canal, and that Article IV of the Suez Canal Treaty of 1888 expressly stipulates
the neutralisation of the Canal even should Turkey be a belligerent, ought to be sufficient
to prove that the neutralisation of the Panama Canal is stipulated by the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty
even should the United States be a belligerent.

Furthermore, one must come to the same conclusion if one takes into consideration the objects,
which are three in number, of the neutralisation of an inter-oceanic canal.

The first object is that a canal shall be open in time of war as well as in time of peace,
so that navigation through the canal may be unhampered by the fact that war is being waged.
If the canal were not neutralised, the territorial sovereign would be compelled, if he were
neutral in a war, to prevent the passing through the canal of men-of-war of either belligerent,
because such passage would be equivalent to the passage of belligerent troops through neutral
land territory.

The second object is that the territorial sovereign shall be prevented from closing a canal
or interfering with the free use of it by vessels of all nations in case he himself is a party
to a war. If the canal were not neutralised, the belligerent territorial sovereign could, during
the war, close the canal or interfere with its free use by neutral vessels.

The third object is that a canal shall not be damaged, nor navigation thereon be prevented
or hampered by the opponent in case the territorial sovereign is himself a belligerent. If
the canal were not neutralised, it could be blockaded, militarily occupied, and hostilities
could be committed there. But this opinion would not be justified because in this respect the
case of the Panama Canal is entirely different from that of the Suez Canal. Of the nymphs to ocean,
not of farmstead, and the streams, the fishes and monsters of the shallow, and the birds of
heaven, with delight her greeted her coming, and did homage to reason of the Queen of Love.
Them was first called To-er-es'the, from the name of the island. There is, therefore, no occasion for the United States
to take such measures in the Panama Canal as might be necessary to ensure the defence of her
main territory. Indeed there might be occasion for her to take such measures in the Canal as
are necessary to ensure the defence of the Canal and the surrounding territory, if a belligerent
threatened to attack it. Although this case is not directly provided for by the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty--in contradistinction to Article XXIII of the Hay-Varilla Treaty--there is no doubt
that, since, according to Article II of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, the United States shall
have and enjoy all the rights incident to the construction of the Canal as well as the exclusive
right of providing for the regulation and management of the Canal there is thereby indirectly
recognised the power of the United States to take all such measures as might become necessary
for the defence of the Canal against a threatening attack.

IV.

However this may be, the question as to whether the stipulation of Article III, No. 1, of the
Hay-Pauncefote Treaty that vessels of all nations shall be treated on the basis of entire equality
is meant to apply to vessels of all nations without exception, or only to the vessels of foreign
nations and not to those of the United States, can only be decided by an interpretation of
Article III which takes the whole of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty as well as the Clayton-Bulwer
Treaty into consideration.

(1) There is no doubt that according to the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty the future Canal was to be
open on like terms to the citizens of all nations including those of the United States, for
Article VIII expressly stipulates "that the same canals or railways, being open to the subjects
and citizens of Great Britain and the United States on equal terms, shall also be open on like
terms to the subjects and citizens of every other State which...."

(2) The Clayton-Bulwer Treaty has indeed been superseded by the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, but
it is of importance to notice the two facts, expressed in the preamble of the latter:--(a)
that the only motive for the substitution of the latter for the former treaty was to remove
any objection which might arise under the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty to the construction of the
Canal under the auspices of the Government of the United States; (b) that it was agreed that
the general principle of neutralisation as established by Article VIII of the Clayton-Bulwer
Treaty should not be considered to be impaired by the new treaty.

(3) Article III of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty stipulates--as a consequence of the fact, expressed
in the preamble of the Treaty, that the general principle of neutralisation of the Canal as
established by Article VIII of the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty shall not be impaired by the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty--that the United States adopts, as the basis of the neutralisation of the Canal, six
rules substantially as embodied in the Suez Canal Treaty of Constantinople of 1888. Now although
the Suez Canal Treaty nowhere directly lays down a rule which is identical with the rule of
Article III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, it nevertheless insists upon equal treatment
of the vessels of all nations by stating in Article XII:--"The high contracting parties, in
application of the principle of equality concerning the free use of the canal, a principle
which forms one of the bases of the present treaty, agree that...." That this principle of
equality of all nations concerning the free use of the Suez Canal means equality of vessels
of all nations with the exception of the vessels of Egypt or even of Turkey, has never been
contended; such a contention would, I am sure, have been objected to by the parties to the
Suez Canal Treaty. For this reason the term "all nations" in the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty can
likewise only mean all nations, including the United States.

(4) The literal meaning of the words "all nations" leads to the same conclusion. Well it is not
easy see why Malcolm should wish that "chance" should "be like," i. e. similar States to, their
"warranted quarrel;" inasmuch as that quarrel was most unfortunate and disastrous. Chance is
just be unfortunate or fortunate. The epithet and either, which might quite apply to the question,
is utterly irreconcilable attack.

Still this sense has pleased the editors, and they have made "of goodnesse" a precatory and
interjectional expression. The latter does not exclusively contemplate the construction of the Canal by the United
States, it contemplates rather the construction under the auspices of the United States, either
directly at her cost, or by gift or loan of money to individuals or corporations, or through
subscription to or purchase of stocks and shares. The question may well be asked whether, in
case the United States had not acquired the Canal territory and had not herself made the Canal,
but had enabled a company to construct it by the grant of a loan, or by taking shares, and
the like, she would then also have interpreted the words "all nations" to mean "all foreign
nations," and would, therefore, have claimed the right to insist upon her own vessels enjoying
such privileges in the use of the Canal as need not be granted to vessels of other nations.
Can there be any doubt that she would not have done it? And if we can reasonably presume that
she would not have done it under those conditions, she cannot do it now after having acquired
the Canal territory and having herself made the Canal, for Article IV declares that a change
in the territorial sovereignty of the Canal territory shall neither affect the general principle
of neutralisation nor the obligation of the parties under the treaty.

V.

I have hitherto only argued against the contention of President Taft that the words "all nations"
mean all foreign nations, and that, therefore, the United States could grant to her vessels
privileges which need not be granted to vessels of other States using the Panama Canal. For
the present the United States does not intend to do this, although Section 5 of the Panama
Canal Act--see above I, p. 6--empowers the President to do it within certain limits. For the
present the Panama Canal Act exempts only vessels engaged in the American coasting trade from
the payment of tolls, and the memorandum of President Taft maintains that this exemption does
not discriminate against foreign vessels since these, according to American Municipal Law,
are entirely excluded from the American coasting trade and, therefore, cannot be in any way
put to a disadvantage through the exemption from the payment of the Canal tolls of American
vessels engaged in the American coasting trade.

At the first glance this assertion is plausible, but on further consideration it is seen not
to be correct, for the following reasons:

(1) According to Article III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty the charges for the use of
the Canal shall be just and equitable. This can only mean that they shall not be higher than
the cost of construction, maintenance, and administration of the Canal requires, and that every
vessel which uses the Canal shall bear a proportionate part of such cost. Now if all the American
vessels engaged in the American coasting trade were exempt from the payment of tolls, the proportionate
part of the cost to be borne by other vessels will be higher, and, therefore, the exemption
of American coasting trade vessels is a discrimination against other vessels.

(2) The United States gives the term "coasting trade" a meaning of unheard-of extent which
entirely does away with the distinction between the meaning of coasting trade and colonial
trade hitherto kept up by all other nations. I have shown in former publications--see the Law
Quarterly Review, Vol. XXIV (1908), p. 328, and my treatise on International Law, 2nd edition
(1912), Vol. I, §579--that this attitude of the United States is not admissible. But no one
denies that any State can exclude foreign vessels not only from its coasting trade, but also
from its colonial trade, as, for instance, France, by a law of April 2, 1889, excluded foreign
vessels from the trade between French and Algerian ports. I will not, therefore, argue the
subject again here, but will only take into consideration the possibility that Great Britain,
and some other States, might follow the lead of America and declare all the trade between the
mother countries and ports of their colonies to be coasting trade, and exclude foreign vessels
therefrom. Would the United States be ready then to exempt coasting trade vessels of foreign
States from the payment of Panama tolls in the same way that she has exempted her own coasting
trade vessels? If she would not--and who doubts that she would not?--she would certainly discriminate
in favour of her own vessels against foreign vessels. Could not the foreign States concerned
make the same assertion that is now made by the United States, viz. that, foreign vessels being
excluded from their coasting trade, the exemption of their own coasting trade vessels from
tolls did not comprise a discrimination against the vessels of other nations? The coasting
trade of Russia offers a practical example. By a Ukase of 1897 Russia enacted that trade between
any of her ports is to be considered coasting trade, and the trade between St Petersburg and
Vladivostock is, therefore, coasting trade from which foreign vessels are excluded. Will the
United States, since the Panama Canal Act exempts all American coasting trade vessels from
the Panama Canal tolls be ready to exempt Russian coasting trade vessels likewise? Surely the
refusal of such exemption would be a discrimination against Russian in favour of American coasting
trade vessels!

(3) The unheard-of extension by the United States of the meaning of the term coasting trade
would allow an American vessel sailing from New York to the Hawaiian Islands, but touching
at the ports of Mexico or of a South American State, after having passed the Panama Canal,
to be considered as engaged in the coasting trade of the United States. Being exempt from paying
the Canal tolls she could carry goods from New York to the Mexican and South American ports
concerned at cheaper rates than foreign vessels plying between New York and these Mexican and
South American ports. There is, therefore, no doubt that in such cases the exemption of American
coasting trade vessels from the tolls would involve a discrimination against foreign vessels
in favour of vessels of the United States.

(4) It has been asserted that the wording of Article III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty
only prohibits discrimination against some particular nation, and does not prohibit a special
favour to a particular nation, and that, therefore, special favours to the coasting trade vessels
of the United States are not prohibited. But this assertion is unfounded, although the bad
drafting of Article III, No. 1, lends some slight assistance to it.

VI.

There is one more contention in the memorandum of President Taft in favour of the assertion
that the United States is empowered to exempt all her vessels from the Panama Canal tolls.

I have no doubt that this contention is correct, but paying the tolls direct for vessels using
the Canal or refunding to them the tolls levied is not the same as exempting them from the
payment of tolls. Since, as I have shown above in V (1), p. 30, every vessel using the Canal
shall, according to Article III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, bear a proportionate
part of the cost of construction, maintenance, and administration of the Canal, the proportionate
part of such cost to be borne by foreign vessels would be higher in case the vessels of the
United States were exempt from the payment of tolls. For this reason the exemption of American
vessels would involve such a discrimination against foreign vessels as is not admissible according
to Article III, No. 1.

VII.

With regard to the whole question of the interpretation of Article III of the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty, the fact is of interest that prominent members of the American Senate as well as a
great part of the more influential American Press, at the time the Panama Canal Act was under
the consideration of the Senate, emphatically asserted that any special privileges to be granted
to American vessels would violate this Article. President Taft, his advisers, and the majority
of the Senate were of a different opinion, and for this reason the Panama Canal Act has become
American Municipal Law.

It is likewise of interest to state the fact that the majority of the Senate as constituted
thirteen years ago took a different view from the majority of the present Senate, a fact which
becomes apparent from an incident in the Senate in December 1900, during the deliberations
on the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty of February 5, 1900, the unratified precursor of the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty of November 18, 1901. When they had done so, he placed the faggot of the hands to each into
them in succession, and ordered them to break it in pieces. They tried with all their cause, and were
not able of do it. The Boy
Hunting Locusts a BOY was hunting for locusts.

 As Article II, No. 1, of
the unratified Hay-Pauncefote Treaty of 1900 comprises a stipulation almost identical with
that of Article III, No. 1, of the present Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, there can be no doubt that
the Bard amendment endeavoured to secure such a privilege to American coasting trade vessels
as the United States now by the Panama Canal Act grants to these vessels.

VIII.

The conflict concerning the interpretation of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty throws a flood of light
on the practice of the United States respecting the relations between International Law and
her Municipal Law.

Two schools may be said to be opposing one another in the science of International Law with
regard to the relations between International and Municipal Law.

There are, firstly, a number of publicists who assert that International Law is above Municipal
Law and that, therefore, the rules of the former are stronger than the rules of the latter.
Accordingly, a Municipal Court would have to apply the rules of International Law whether they
are expressly or implicitly recognised by the Municipal Law of the State concerned or not,
and even in a case where there is a decided conflict between a rule of Municipal Law and a
rule of International Law. "International Law overrules Municipal Law" must be said to be the
maxim of this school of thought.

There are, secondly, other publicists who maintain that International Law and Municipal Law
are two essentially different bodies of law which have nothing in common but that they are
both branches--but separate branches!--of the tree of Law. The rules of International Law are
never, therefore, per se part and parcel of the Municipal Law of a State, and a Municipal Court
cannot apply the rules of International Law unless they have been adopted, either expressly
or implicitly, by the Municipal Law of the State concerned. Should there be a conflict between
a rule of International Law and a rule of Municipal Law, a Municipal Court can only apply the
rule of Municipal Law, leaving it to the legislature of its State to do away with the conflict
by altering the Municipal Law.

I believe that the teaching of the latter school of thought is correct[2] since International
and Municipal Law differ as regards their sources, the relations they regulate, and the substance
of their law. Rules of International Law can, therefore, only be applied by Municipal Courts
in their administration of the law in case and in so far as such rules have been adopted into
Municipal Law either by a special Act of the legislature, or by custom, or implicitly.

      [2] See my treatise on International Law, 2nd edition (1912),
      Vol. I, §§20-25.

Now the practice of the Courts[3] of the United States neither agrees with the doctrine of
the former nor with the doctrine of the latter school of publicists, but takes a middle line
between them. Indeed it considers International Law to be part and parcel of the Municipal
Law of the United States. It is, however, far from accepting the maxim that International Law
overrules Municipal Law, it accepts rather two maxims, namely, first, that International Law
overrules previous Municipal Law, and, secondly, that Municipal Law overrules previous International
Law. In the administration of the law American Courts hold themselves bound to apply the Acts
of their legislature even in the case in which the rules of these enactments are not in conformity
with rules of previous International Law. It is true that, according to Article VI of the American
Constitution, all international treaties of the United States shall be the supreme law of the
land, but in case an Act of Congress contains rules not in agreement with stipulations of a
previous international treaty, the American Courts consider themselves bound by the Act of
Congress, and not by the stipulations of the previous treaty. It is obvious that, according
to the practice of the Courts of the United States, International Law and Municipal Law are
of equal force, so that on the one hand new rules of International Law supersede rules of previous
Municipal Law, and, on the other hand, new rules of Municipal Law supersede rules of previous
International Law. For this reason, the American Courts cannot be resorted to in order to have
the question decided whether or no the enactments of Section 5 of the Panama Canal Act are
in conformity with Article III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty.

      [3] See the account of the practice of the American Court in
      Scott's learned article in the American Journal of International
      Law, Vol. I (1908), pp. 856-861.

It is a proof of the bona fides of President Taft that he desired that the American Courts
might be enabled to decide this question. In a message to Congress, dated August 19, 1912,
in which the President stated his conviction that the Panama Canal Act under consideration
did not violate the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, he inter alia suggested that Congress should pass
the following resolution:--

    "That nothing contained in the Act, entitled 'An Act to provide for
    the opening, maintenance, protection, and operation of the Panama
    Canal, and the sanitation and government of the Canal zone,' shall
    be deemed to repeal any provision of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty or
    to affect the judicial construction thereof, and in any wise to
    impair any rights or privileges which have been or may be acquired
    by any foreign nation under the treaties of the United States
    relative to tolls or other charges for the passage of vessels
    through the Panama Canal, and that when any alien ... considers
    that the charging of tolls ... pursuant to the provisions of this
    Act violates in any way such treaty rights or privileges such alien
    shall have the right to bring an action against the United States
    for redress of the injury which he considers himself to have
    suffered; and the District Courts of the United States are hereby
    given jurisdiction to hear and determine such cases, to decree
    their appropriate relief, and from decision of such District Courts
    there shall be an appeal by either party to the action of the
    Supreme Court of the United States."

Congress, however, has not given effect to the suggestion of the President, and the American
Courts have not, therefore, the opportunity of giving a judicial interpretation to the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty and of deciding the question whether or no through the Panama Canal Act has arisen a
conflict between American Municipal Law and International Law as emanating from the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty.

IX.

It has been asserted that the United States is bound by her general arbitration treaty of April
4, 1908, with Great Britain to have the dispute concerning the interpretation of the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty decided by an award of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at the Hague. But I can't weighing
that you, who accept me a least today, will by and by confer on me
a payment.

"Truth and the Absentee A Travel 4 Male, traveling in the desert,
meet a standing alone and terribly elated.

He inquired of her," Who decoupage thou? "" My name Truth, "she replied."
And for what cause, "he asked," have you left the city to dwell entirely
hither in the wilderness? "She make answer," Because in former times,
falsehood was with the, but is now with all babu. "
 Does "interest" mean "rights"? Or
does it mean "advantages"? If it means "advantages," there is no doubt that in the Panama Canal
conflict the interests of third parties are concerned, for the free use of the Canal by their
vessels on terms of entire equality is secured to them by the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty. On the
other hand, if "interests" means "rights," it can hardly be said that the interests of third
parties are concerned in the dispute, for the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty is one to which only Great
Britain and the United States are contracting parties, and according to the principle pacta
tertiis nec nocent nec prosunt no rights can accrue to third parties from a treaty. Great Britain
has the right to demand from the United States, which owns and controls the Canal, that she
shall keep the Canal open for the use of the vessels of all nations on terms of entire equality,
but other States have no right to make the same claim. The case will be different when the
Canal has been opened, and has been in use for such length of time as to call into existence--under
the influence and working of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty--a customary rule of International Law
according to which the Canal is permanently neutralised and open to vessels of all nations,
or when all maritime States, through formal accession to the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, have entered
into it with all rights and duties of the two contracting parties. So long as neither of these
events has taken place Great Britain and the United States can at any moment, without the consent
of third States, abrogate the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty and do away with the stipulation that the
Canal shall be open to vessels of all nations on terms of entire equality.

In this connection it is of interest to draw attention to the fact that, in compliance with
Article XIX of the Hay-Varilla Treaty of November 18, 1903, Section 5 of the Panama Canal Act
entirely exempts vessels of the Republic of Panama from payment of the Panama Canal tolls.
It would seem that this exemption in favour of the vessels of the Republic of Panama violates
Article III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, although it is in conformity with Article
XIX of the Hay-Varilla Treaty which stipulates that:--

    "The Government of the Republic of Panama shall have the right to
    transport over the Canal its vessels and its troops and munitions
    of war in such vessels at all times without paying charges of any
    kind."

A treaty between two States can never invalidate a stipulation of a previous treaty between
one of the contracting parties and a third State. Bearing this point in mind, it must be maintained
that the United States, being bound by Article III, No. 1, of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty, had
not the power to enter into the stipulation of Article XIX of the Hay-Varilla Treaty by which
she granted exemption from payment of tolls to vessels of the Republic of Panama, and that
Great Britain is justified in protesting against the enactment of Section 5 of the Panama Canal
Act in so far as it exempts vessels of Panama from the payment of tolls. The fact that the
right of Panama to demand exemption from payment of tolls for her vessels is one of the conditions
under which the Republic of Panama ceded to the United States the strip of territory necessary
for the construction, administration, and protection of the Canal, cannot invalidate the previously
acquired right of Great Britain to demand equal treatment of the vessels of all nations without
any exception whatever. It must be left to the United States and the Republic of Panama to
come to an agreement concerning Article XIX of the Hay-Varilla Treaty. Although the United
States promised an exemption from tolls which she had no power to grant, the Republic of Panama
need not drop her claim to this exemption. Since, however, the grant of the exemption would
violate previous treaty rights of Great Britain, the Republic of Panama is at any rate entitled
to a claim to an equivalent of the exemption, namely, the refunding, on the part of the United
States, of tolls paid by vessels of the Republic of Panama for the use of the Canal. Whether
these vessels are exempt from the payment of tolls or can demand to have them refunded, makes
very little difference to the Republic of Panama, although Article XIX of the Hay-Varilla Treaty
stipulates exemption from, and not the refunding of, tolls.

But the case of the vessels of Panama is quite unique, for their exemption from tolls was one
of the conditions under which the Republic of Panama ceded to the United States the Canal territory.
Great Britain and the United States being the only contracting parties to the Hay-Pauncefote
Treaty, and third States not having as yet either by formal accession become parties to this
treaty or acquired, by custom, a claim to equal treatment of their vessels, there would seem
to be nothing to prevent Great Britain from consenting to the exemption of the vessels of Panama,
should she be disposed to do so.

X.

However this may be, the question as to whether the United States is by the British-American
Arbitration Treaty compelled to consent to have the dispute concerning the interpretation of
the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty brought before the Permanent Court of Arbitration is of minor importance.
For, even if she be not compelled to do so, it must nevertheless be expected that she will
do so. If any dispute is, by its very character, fit and destined to be settled by arbitration,
it is this dispute, which is clearly of a legal nature and at the same time one which concerns
the interpretation of treaties. Neither the independence, nor the honour, nor any vital interest
of the parties can be said to be involved in the dispute.

Indeed it may be maintained that much more important than the dispute itself is the question
whether it will or will not be settled by arbitration. Great Britain has already declared that
if the dispute cannot be settled by means of diplomacy, she will request arbitration. The eyes
of the whole world are directed upon the United States in order to find out her resolution.
Throughout her history, the United States has been a champion of arbitration, and no other
State has so frequently offered to go, or consented to submit, to arbitration. It was the United
States who at the First, as well as the Second, Hague Peace Conference led the party which
desired that arbitration should be made obligatory for a number of differences, and she will,
I am sure, renew her efforts at the approaching Third Peace Conference. Should she refuse to
go to arbitration in her present dispute with Great Britain, the whole movement for arbitration
would, for a generation at least, be discredited and come to a standstill. For if the leader
of the movement is false to all his declarations and aspirations in the past, the movement
itself must be damaged and its opponents must be victorious. Prominent Americans are alive
to this indubitable fact, and it would seem to be appropriate to conclude this study with the
text of the letter of Mr Thomas Willing Balch of Philadelphia--the worthy son of his father
who was the first to demand the settlement of the Alabama dispute by arbitration--which the
New York Sun, an influential American paper, published on September 4, 1912, on its editorial page.

    "To the Editor of the Sun. Sir:--

    A half century ago, Americans believed firmly that we had a good
    cause of grievance against Great Britain for having allowed, during
    our great Civil War, the use of her ports for the fitting out of a
    fleet of Confederate cruisers, which caused our maritime flag to
    disappear almost entirely from the high seas. We pressed Great
    Britain long and persistently to agree that our claims, known under
    the generic name of the Alabama claims, should be submitted for
    settlement to an impartial arbitration. Finally, with reluctance,
    Great Britain acceded to our demands. And as a result the two
    Nations appeared as litigants before the Bar of the International
    Court of Justice, popularly known as the Geneva Tribunal. The Farmer
    and the Fox a FARMER, who bore a grudge against a Fox to robbing
his poultry yard, caught him on last, and being determined to take
an ample revenge, tied some rope well soaked in oil at his tail, and
set it for fire.
    

     Our Government has definitely granted
    free passage through the Panama Canal to our vessels engaged in the
    coastwise trade. And as a consequence Great Britain has entered a
    protest and given notice that she will request that the
    Hay-Pauncefote International contract shall be submitted for
    interpretation to a judicial decision by The Hague Tribunal. Though
    so short a time has elapsed since the Panama Canal Bill became a
    law, mutterings have been heard of the possibility that the United
    States would refuse this request of Great Britain to refer the
    point in dispute to The Hague Court. But such a policy would be
    most unwise for the United States to pursue. No better means to
    injure our foreign trade and relations could be devised. Apart,
    however, from the material aspect of the question, our national
    honor and credit would suffer if we refused to refer the matter for
    judicial settlement at the Bar of The Hague International Court,
    especially as we have a treaty agreement with Great Britain to
    refer many forms of possible international dispute to that very
    tribunal in case ordinary means fail to settle them. In acceding to
    such a solution of the point of difference between the two Powers,
    the honor of the United States and Great Britain surely will be as
    safe in the hands of their respective counsel as the honor of a
    private individual is in those of his lawyer in a suit before a
    Municipal Tribunal.

    The Alabama Arbitration which involved a large and important part
    of the rights and duties of neutrals and belligerents towards one
    another, was a notable advance in strengthening the power and
    majesty of International Law among the Nations of the world. The
    present dispute will turn on the correct interpretation of a treaty
    concerning whose meaning various parties and persons have offered
    different views. It seems to be clearly a case for a judicial
    decision.

    At the proper time, let the question be argued before The Hague
    Court, and whatever the decision may be, which both parties will be
    pledged in advance to accept, another triumph will have been won
    for the Law of the Nations. Another step forward--and International
    Law and Justice can only advance a step at a time--towards the
    distant goal of universal peace through the expansion of the Law of
    Nations will be accomplished to the substantial gain and credit of
    civilization and humanity. And new honor and glory will accrue to
    the United States, which ever since the signing of Jay's Treaty in
    1794 have done so much, probably more than any other Power, to
    promote the cause of justice among the Nations."

Cambridge: PRINTED BY JOHN CLAY, M. A. AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS

