"As you were--hold everything! Lay off those controls!" snapped the computer. "There's something
screwy, just as I thought--and it isn't you, either. I'm no pilot, of course, but I do know
good compensation when I see it, and if you weren't compensating that point I never saw it
done. Besides, with your skill and my figures I know darn well that we aren't off more than
a tenth of one division. He's cuckoo! Don't call him--let him start it, and refer him to me."

"All x--I'll be only too glad to pass the buck. But I still think, Steve, that you're playing
with dynamite. Who ever heard of an astronomer being wrong?"

"You'd be surprised," grinned the physicist, "Since this fuss has just started, nobody has
tried to find out whether they were wrong or not...."

"IPV Arcturus, attention!" came from the speaker curtly.

"IPV Arcturus, Breckenridge," from the chief pilot.

"You have been on my ray almost a minute. Why are you not correcting course and acceleration?"

"Doctor Stevens is computing us and has full control of course and acceleration," replied Breckenridge.
"He will answer you."

"I am changing neither course nor acceleration because you are not in position," declared Stevens,
crisply, "Please give me your present supposed location, and your latest precision goniometer
bearings on the sun, the moon, Mars, Venus, and your Tellurian reference limb, with exact time
of observations, gyroscope zero-planes, and goniometer factors!"

"Correct at once or I shall report you to the Observatory," E2 answered loftily, paying no
attention to the demand for proof of position.

"Be sure you do that, guy--and while you're at it report that your station hasn't taken a precision
bearing in a month. Report that you've been muddling along on radio loop bearings, and that
you don't know where you are, within seven thousand kilometers. And speaking of reporting--I
know already that a lot of you astronomical guessers have only the faintest possible idea of
where you really are, plus, minus, or lateral; and if you don't get yourselves straightened
out before we get to W41, I'm going to make a report on my own account that will jar some of
you birds loose from your upper teeth!" He unplugged with a vicious jerk, and turned to the
pilot with a grin.

"Guess that'll hold him for a while, won't it?"

"He'll report us, sure," remonstrated Breckenridge. The older man was plainly ill at ease at
this open defiance of the supposedly infallible check-stations.

"Not that baby," returned the computer confidently. "I'll bet you a small farm against a plugged
nickel that right now he's working his goniometer so hard that it's pivots are getting hot.
He'll sneak back into position as soon as he can calculate his results, and pretend he's always
been there."

"The others will be all right, then, probably, by the time we get to them?"

"Gosh, no--you're unusually dumb today, Breck. He won't tell anybody anything--he doesn't want
to be the only goat, does he?"

"Oh, I see. How could you dope this out, with only the recorder charts?"

"Because I know the kind of stuff you pilots are--and those humps are altogether too big to
be accounted for by anything I know about you. Another thing--the next station, P6, I think
is keeping himself all x. If so, when you corrected for E2, which was wrong, it'd throw you
all off on P6, which was right, and so on--a bad hump at almost every check-station. See?"

       *       *       *       *       *

True to prediction, the pilot ray of P6 came in almost upon the exact center of the micrometer
screen, and Breckenridge smiled in relief as he began really to enjoy the trip.

"How do we check on chronometers?" asked P6 when Stevens had been introduced. "By my time you
seem to be about two and a half seconds plus?"

