THE LEGENDS OF THE JEWS VOLUME IV BIBLE TIMES AND CHARACTERS FROM JOSHUA TO ESTHER

BY LOUIS GINZBERG

TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN MANUSCRIPT

CONTENTS

I. JOSHUA The Servant of Moses Entering the Promised Land--Conquest of the Land--The Sun Obeys
Joshua--War with the Armenians--Allotment of the Land.

II. THE JUDGES The First Judge--Campaigns of KenaS--Othniel--Boaz and Ruth--Deborah--Gideon--Jephthah--Samson--The
Crime of the Crime of the Benjamites.

III. SAMUEL AND SAUL Elkanah and Hannah--The Youth of Samuel--Eli and His Sons--The Activities
of Samuel--The Reign of Saul--The Court of Saul.

IV. DAVID David's Birth and Descent--Anointed King--Encounter with Goliath--Pursued by Saul--Wars--Ahithophel--Joab--David's
Piety and His Sin--Absalom's Rebellion--David's Atonement--Visitations--The Death of David--David
in Paradise--The Family of David--His Tomb.

V. SOLOMON Solomon Punishes Joab--The Marriage of Solomon--His Wisdom-- The Queen of Sheba--Solomon
Master of the Demons--The Building of the Temple--The Throne of Solomon--The Hippodrome--Lessons
in Humility--Asmodeus--Solomon as Beggar--The Court of Solomon.

VI. JUDAH AND ISRAEL The Division of the Kingdom--Jeroboam--The Two Ahijabs--Asa-- Jehoshaphat
and Ahab--Jezebel--Joram of Israel.

VII. ELIJAH Elijah before His Translation--After His Translation--Censor and Avenger--Intercourse
with the Sages--God's Justice Vindicated-- Elijah and the Angel of Death--Teacher of the Kabbalah--Forerunner
of the Messiah.

VIII. ELISHA AND JONAH Elisha the Disciple of Elijah--The Shunammite--Gehazi--The Flight of
Jonah Jonah in the Whale--The Repentance of Nineveh.

IX. THE LATER KINGS OF JUDAH Joash--Three Great Prophets--The Two Kingdoms Chastised--Hezekjah--Miracles
Wrought for Hezekiah--Manasseh--Josiah and His Successors.

X. THE EXILE Zedekiah--Jeremiah--Nebuchadnezzar--The Capture of Jerusalem-- The Great Lament--Jeremiah's
Journey to Babylon--Transportation of the Captives--The Sons of Moses--Ebedmelech--The Temple
Vessels--Baruch--The Tombs of Baruch and Ezekie1--Daniel--The Three Men in the Furnace--Ezekiel
Revives the Dead--Nebuchadnezzar a Beast--Hiram--The False Prophets--Daniel's Piety.

XI. THE RETURN OF THE CAPTIVITY Belshazzar's Feast--Daniel under the Persian Kings--The Grave
of Daniel--Zerubbabel--Ezra--The Men of the Great Assembly.

XII. ESTHER The Feast for the Grandees--The Festivities in Shushan--Vashti's Banquet--The Fate
of Vashti--The Follies of Ahasuerus--Mordecai Esther's Beauty and Piety--The Conspiracy Haman
the Jew-baiter-- Mordecai's Pride--Casting the Lots--The Denunciation of the Jews--The Decree
of Annihilation--Satan Indicts the Jews--The Dream of Mordecai Fulfilled--The Prayer of Esther--Esther
Intercedes--The Disturbed Night--The Fall of Haman--The Edict of the King.

THE SERVANT OF MOSES

The early history of the first Jewish conqueror (1) in some respects is like the early history
of the first Jewish legislator. Moses was rescued from a watery grave, and raised at the court
of Egypt. Joshua, in infancy, was swallowed by a whale, and , wonderful to relate, did not
perish. At a distant point of the sea-coast the monster spewed him forth unharmed. He was found
by compassionate passers-by, and grew up ignorant of his descent. The government appointed
him to the office of hangman. As luck would have it, he had to execute his own father. By the
law of the land the wife of the dead man fell to the share of his executioner, and Joshua was
on the point of adding to parricide another crime equally heinous. He was saved by a miraculous
sign. When he approached his mother, milk flowed from her breasts. His suspicions were aroused,
and through the inquiries he set a foot regarding his origin, the truth was made manifest. (2)

Later Joshua, who was so ignorant that he was called a fool, became the minister of Moses,
and God rewarded his faithful service by making him the successor to Moses. (3) He was designated
as such to Moses when, at the bidding of his master, he was carrying on war with the Amalekites.
(4) In this campaign God's care of Joshua was plainly seen. Joshua had condemned a portion
of the Amalekites to death by lot, and the heavenly sword picked them out for extermination.
(5) Yet there was as great a difference between Moses and Joshua as between the sun and the
moon. (6) God did not withdraw His help from Joshua, but He was by no means so close to him
as to Moses. This appeared immediately after Moses had passed away. At the moment when the
Israelitish leader was setting out on his journey to the great beyond, he summoned his successor
and bade him put questions upon all points about which he felt uncertain. Conscious of his
own industry and devotion, Joshua replied that he had no questions to ask, seeing that he had
carefully studied the teachings of Moses. Straightway he forgot three hundred Halakot, and
doubts assailed him concerning seven hundred others. The people threatened Joshua's life, because
he was not able to resolve their difficulties in the law. It was vain to turn to God, for the
Torah once revealed was subject to human, not to heavenly, authority. (7) Directly after Moses'
death, God commanded Joshua to go to war, so that the people might forget its grievance against
him. (8) But it is false to think that the great conqueror was nothing more than a military
hero. When God appeared to him, to give him instructions concerning the war, He found him with
the Book of Deuteronomy in his hand, whereupon God called to him: "Be strong and of good courage;
the book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth." (9)

 ENTERING THE PROMISED LAND

The first step in preparation for war was the selection of spies. To guard against a repetition
of what had happened to Moses, Joshua chose as his messengers Caleb and Phinehas, on whom he
could place dependence in all circumstances. (10) They were accompanied on their mission by
two demons, the husbands of the she-devils Lilith and Mahlah. When Joshua was planning his
campaign, these devils offered their services to him; they proposed that they be sent out to
reconnoitre the land. Joshua refused the offer, but formed their appearance so frightfully
that the residents of Jericho were struck with fear of them. (11) In Jericho the spies put
up with Rahab. She had been leading an immoral life for forty years, but at the approach of
Israel, she paid homage to the true God, lived the life of a pious convert, and, as the wife
of Joshua, became the ancestress of eight prophets and of the prophetess Huldah. (12) She had
opportunity in her own house of beholding the wonders of God. When the king's bailiffs came
to make their investigations, and Rahab wanted to conceal the Israelitish spies, Phinehas calmed
her with the words: "I am a priest, and priests are like angels, visible when they wish to
be seen, invisible when they do not wish to be seen." (13)

After the return of the spies, Joshua decided to pass over the Jordan. The crossing of the
river was the occasion for wonders, the purpose of which was to clothe him with authority in
the eyes of the people. Scarcely had the priests, who at this solemn moment took the place
of the Levites as bearers of the Ark, set foot in the Jordan, when the waters of the river
were piled up to a height of three hundred miles. All the peoples of the earth were witnesses
of the wonder. (14) In the bed of the Jordan Joshua assembled the people around the Ark. A
Divine miracle caused the narrow space between its staves to contain the whole concourse. Joshua
then proclaimed the conditions under which God would give Palestine to the Israelites, and
he added, if these conditions were not accepted, the waters of the Jordan would descend straight
upon them. Then they marched through the river. When the people arrived on the further shore,
the holy Ark, which had all the while been standing in the bed of the river, set forward of
itself, and, dragging the priests after it, overtook the people.

The day continued eventful. Unassailed, the Israelites marched seventy miles to Mount Gerizim
and Mount Ebal, and there performed the ceremony bidden by Moses in Deuteronomy: six of the
tribes ascended Mount Gerizim, and six Mount Ebal. The priests and the Levites grouped themselves
about the holy Ark in the vale between the two peaks. With their faces turned toward Gerizim,
the Levites uttered the words: "Happy the man that maketh no idol, an abomination unto the
Lord," and all the people answered Amen. After reciting twelve blessings similar to this in
form, the Levites turned to Mount Ebal, and recited twelve curses, counterparts of the blessings,
to each of which the people responded again with Amen. Thereupon an altar was erected on Mount
Ebal with the stones, each weighing forty seim, which the Israelites had taken from the bed
of the river while passing through the Jordan. The altar was plastered with lime, and the Torah
written upon it in seventy languages, so that the heathen nations might have the opportunity
of learning the law. At the end it was said explicitly that the heathen outside of Palestine,
if they would but abandon the worship of idols, would be received kindly by the Jews.

All this happened on one day, on the same day on which the Jordan was crossed, and the assembly
was held on Gerizim and Ebal,   the day on which the people arrived at Gilgal, where they left
the stones of which the altar had been built. (15) At Gilgal Joshua performed the rite of circumcision
on those born in the desert, who had remained uncircumcised on account of the rough climate
and for other reasons. (16) And here it was that the manna gave out. It had ceased to fall
at the death of Moses, but the supply that had been stored up had lasted some time longer.
(17) As soon as the people were under the necessity of providing for their daily wants, they
grew negligent in the study of the Torah. Therefore the angel admonished Joshua to loose his
shoes from off his feet, for he was to mourn over the decline of the study of the Torah, (18)
and bare feet are a sign of mourning. The angel reproached Joshua in particular with having
allowed the preparations for war to interfere with the study of the Torah and with the ritual
service. Neglect of the latter might be a venial sin, but neglect of the former is worthy of
condign punishment. (19) At the same time the angel assured Joshua that he had come to aid
him, and he entreated Joshua not to draw back from him, like Moses, who had refused the good
offices of the angel. (20) He who spoke to Joshua was none other than the archangel Michael. (21)

 CONQUEST OF THE LAND

Joshua's first victory was the wonderful capture of Jericho. The whole of the city was declared
anathema, because it had been conquered on the Sabbath day. Joshua reasoned that as the Sabbath
is holy, so also that which conquered on the Sabbath should be holy. (22) The brilliant victory
was followed by the luckless defeat at Ai. In this engagement perished Jair, the son of Manasseh,
whose loss was as great as if the majority of the Sanhedrin had been destroyed. (23) Presently
Joshua discovered that the cause of the defeat was the sinfulness of Israel, brought upon it
by Achan, who had laid hands on some of the spoils of Jericho. Achan was a hardened transgressor
and criminal from of old. During the life of Moses he had several times appropriated to his
own use things that had been declared anathema, (24) and he had committed other crimes worthy
of the death penalty. (25) Before the Israelites crossed the Jordan, God had not visited Achan's
sins upon the people as a whole, because at that time it did not form a national unit yet.
But when Achan abstracted an idol and all its appurtenances from Jericho, (26) the misfortune
of Ai followed at once.

Joshua inquired of God, why trouble had befallen Israel, but God refused to reply. He was no
tale-bearer; the evil-doer who had caused the disaster would have to be singled out by lot.
(27) Joshua first of all summoned the high priest from the assembly of the people. It appeared
that, while the other jewels in his breastplate gleamed bright, the stone representing the
tribe of Judah was dim. (28) By lot Achan was set apart from the members of his tribe. Achan,
however, refused to submit to the decision by lot. He said to Joshua: "Among all living men
thou and Phinehas are the most pious. Yet, if lots were cast concerning you two, one or other
of you would be declared guilty. Thy teacher Moses has been dead scarcely one month, and thou
has already begun to go astray, for thou hast forgotten that a man's guilt can be proved only
through two witnesses."

Endued with the holy spirit, Joshua divined that the land was to be assigned to the tribes
and families of Israel by lot, and he realized that nothing ought to be done to bring this
method of deciding into disrepute. He, therefore, tried to persuade Achan to make a clean breast
of his transgression. (29) Meantime, the Judeans, the tribesmen of Achan, rallied about him,
and throwing themselves upon the other tribes, they wrought fearful havoc and bloodshed. This
determined Achan to confess his sins. (30) The confession cost him his life, but it saved him
from losing his share in the world to come. (31)

In spite of the reverses at Ai, (32) the terror inspired by the Israelites grew among the Canaanitish
peoples. The Gibeonites planned to circumvent the invaders, and form an alliance with them.
Now, before Joshua set out on his campaign, he had issued three proclamations: the nation that
would leave Canaan might depart unhindered; the nation that would conclude peace with the Israelites,
should do it at once; and the nation that would choose war, should make its preparations. If
the Gibeonites had sued for the friendship of the Jews when the proclamation came to their
ears, there would have been no need for subterfuges later. But the Canaanites had to see with
their own eyes what manner of enemy awaited them, and all the nations prepared for war. The
result was that the thirty-one kings of Palestine perished, as well as the satraps of many
foreign kings, who were proud to own possessions in the Holy Land. (33) Only the Girgashites
departed out of Palestine, and as a reward for their docility God gave them Africa as an inheritance.
(34)

The Gibeonites deserved no better fate than all the rest, for the covenant made with them rested
upon a misapprehension, yet Joshua kept his promise to them, in order to sanctify the name
of God, by showing the world how sacred an oath is to the Israelites. (35) In the course of
events it became obvious that the Gibeonites were by no means worthy of being received into
the Jewish communion, and David, following Joshua's example, excluded them forever, a sentence
that will remain in force even in the Messianic time. (36)

 THE SUN OBEYS JOSHUA

The task of protecting the Gibeonites involved in the offensive and defensive alliance made
with them, Joshua fulfilled scrupulously. He had hesitated for a moment whether to aid the
Gibeonites in their distress, but the words of God sufficed to recall him to his duty. God
said to him: "If thou dost not bring near them that are far off, thou wilt remove them that
are near by." (37) God granted Joshua peculiar favor in his conflict with the assailants of
the Gibeonites. The hot hailstones which, at Moses' intercession, had remained suspended in
the air when they were about to fall upon the Egyptians, were now cast down upon the Canaanites.
(38) Then happened the great wonder of the sun's standing still, the sixth (39) of the great
wonders since the creation of the world.

The battle took place on a Friday. Joshua knew it would pain the people deeply to be compelled
to desecrate the holy Sabbath day. Besides, he noticed that the heathen were using sorcery
to make the heavenly hosts intercede for them in the fight against the Israelites. He, therefore,
pronounced the Name of the Lord, and the sun, moon and stars stood still. (40) The sun at first
refused to obey Joshua's behest, seeing that he was older than man by two days. Joshua replied
that there was no reason why a free-born youth should refrain from enjoining silence upon an
old slave whom he owns, and had not God given heaven and earth to our father Abraham? (41)
Nay, more than this, had not the sun himself bowed down like a slave before Joseph? "But,"
said the sun, "who will praise God if I am silent?" (42) Whereupon Joshua: "Be thou silent,
and I will intone a song of praise." (43) And he sang thus:

1. Thou hast done mighty things, O Lord, Thou has performed great deeds. Who is like unto Thee?
My lips shall sing unto Thy name.

2. My goodness and my fortress, my refuge, I will sing a new song unto Thee, with thanksgiving
I will sing unto Thee, Thou art the strength of my salvation.

3. All the kings of the earth shall praise Thee, the princes of the world shall sing unto Thee,
the children of Israel shall rejoice in Thy salvation, they shall sing and praise Thy power.

4. In Thee, O God, did we trust; we said, Thou art our God, for Thou wast our shelter and our
strong tower against our enemies.

5. To Thee we cried, and we were not ashamed; in Thee we trusted, and we were delivered; when
we cried unto Thee, Thou didst hear our voice, Thou didst deliver our souls from the sword.

6. Thou hast shown unto us Thy mercy, Thou didst give unto us Thy salvation, Thou didst rejoice
our hearts with Thy strength.

7. Thou wentest forth for our salvation; with the strength of Thy arm Thou didst redeem Thy
people; Thou did console us from the heavens of Thy holiness, Thou didst save us from tens
of thousands.

8. Sun and moon stood still in heaven, and Thou didst stand in Thy wrath against our oppressors,
and Thou didst execute Thy judgements upon them.

9. All the princes of the earth stood up, the kings of the nations had gathered themselves
together, they were not moved at Thy presence, they desired Thy battles.

10. Thou didst rise against them in Thine anger, and Thou didst bring down Thy wrath upon them,
Thou didst destroy them in Thy fury, and Thou didst ruin them in Thy rage.

11. Nations raged from fear of Thee, kingdoms tottered because of Thy wrath, Thou didst wound
kings in the day of Thine anger.

12. Thou didst pour out Thy fury upon them, Thy wrathful anger took hold of them, Thou didst
turn their iniquity upon them, and Thou didst cut them off in their wickedness.

13. They spread a trap, they fell therein, in the net they hid their foot was caught.

14. Thine hand found all Thine enemies, who said, through their sword they possessed the land,
through their arm thy dwelt in the city.

15. Thou didst fill their faces with shame, Thou didst bring their horns down to the ground.

16. Thou didst terrify them in Thy wrath, and thou didst destroy them from before Thee.

17. The earth quaked and trembled from the noise of Thy thunder against them; Thou didst not
withhold their souls from earth, and Thou didst bring down their lives to the grave.

18. Thou didst pursue them in Thy storm, Thou didst consume them in the whirlwind, Thou didst
turn their rain into hail, they fell in floods, so that they could not rise.

19. Their carcasses were like rubbish cast out in the middle of the streets.

20. They were consumed, and they perished before Thee, Thou hast delivered Thy people in Thy might.

21. Therefore our hearts rejoice in Thee, our souls exult in Thy salvation.

22. Our tongues shall relate Thy might, we will sing and praise Thy wondrous works.

23. For Thou didst save us from our enemies, Thou didst deliver us from those who rose up against
us, Thou didst destroy them from before us, and depress them beneath our feet.

24. Thus shall all Thine enemies perish, O Lord, and the wicked shall be like chaff driven
by the wind, and Thy beloved shall be like trees planted by the waters. (44)

 WAR WITH THE ARMENIANS

Joshua's victorious course did not end with the conquest of the land. His war with the Armenians,
after Palestine was subdued, marked the climax of his heroic deeds. Among the thirty-one kings
whom Joshua had slain, there was one whose son, Shobach by name, was king of Armenia. With
the purpose of waging war with Joshua, he united the forty-five kings of Persia and Media,
and they were joined by the renowned hero Japheth. The allied kings in a letter informed Joshua
of their design against him as follow: "The noble, distinguished council of the kings of Persia
and Media to Joshua, peace! Thou wolf of the desert, we well know what thou didst to our kinsmen.
Thou didst destroy our palaces; without pity thou didst slay young and old; our fathers thou
didst mow down with the sword; and their cities thou didst turn into desert. Know, then, that
in the space of thirty days, we shall come to thee, we, the forty-five kings, each having sixty
thousand warriors under him, all them armed with bows and arrows, girt about with swords, all
of us skilled in the ways of war, and with us the hero Japheth. Prepare now for the combat,
and say not afterward that we took thee at unawares."

The messenger bearing the letter arrived on the day before the Feast of Weeks. Although Joshua
was greatly wrought up by the contents of the letter, he kept his counsel until after the feast,
in order not to disturb the rejoicing of the people. Then, at the conclusion of the feast,
he told the people of the message that had reached him, so terrifying that even he, the veteran
warrior, trembled at the heralded approach of the enemy. Nevertheless Joshua determined to
accept the challenge. From the first words his reply was framed to show the heathen how little
their fear possessed him whose trust was set in God. The introduction to his epistle reads
as follows: "In the Name of the Lord, the God of Israel, who saps the strength of the iniquitous
warrior, and slays the rebellious sinner. He breaks up the assemblies of marauding transgressors,
and He gathers together in council the pious and the just scattered abroad, He the God of all
gods, the Lord of all lords, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. God is the Lord of war!
From me, Joshua, the servant of God, and from the holy and chosen congregation to the impious
nations, who pay worship to images, and prostrate themselves before idols: No peace unto you,
saith my God! Know that ye acted foolishly to awaken the slumbering lion, to rouse up the lion's
whelp, to excite his wrath. I am ready to pay you your recompense. Be ye prepared to meet me,
for within a week I shall be with you to slay your warriors to a man."

Joshua goes on to recite all the wonders God had done for Israel, who need fear no power on
earth; and he ends his missive with the words: "If the hero Japheth is with you, we have in
the midst of us the Hero of heroes, the Highest above all the high."

The heathen were not a little alarmed at the tone of Joshua's letter. Their terror grew when
the messenger told of the exemplary discipline maintained in the Isrealitish army, of the gigantic
stature of Joshua, who stood five ells high, of his royal apparel, of his crown graven with
the Name of God. At the end of seven days Joshua appeared with twelve thousand troops. When
the mother of King Shobach, who was a powerful witch, espied the host, she exercised her magic
art, and enclosed the Isrealitish army in seven walls. Joshua thereupon sent forth a carrier
pigeon to communicate his plight to Nabiah, the king of the trans-Jordanic tribes. He urged
him to hasten to his help and bring the priest Phinehas and the sacred trumpets with him. Nabiah
did not tarry. Before the relief detachment arrived, his mother reported to Shobach that she
beheld a star arise out of the East against which her machinations were vain. Shobach threw
his mother from the wall, and he himself was soon afterward killed by Nabiah. Meantime Phinehas
arrived, and, at the sound of his trumpets, the wall toppled down. A pitched battle ensued,
and the heathen were annihilated. (45)

 ALLOTMENT OF THE LAND

At the end of seven years of warfare, (46) Joshua could at last venture to parcel out the conquered
land among the tribes. This was the way he did it. The high priest Eleazar, attended by Joshua
and all the people, and arrayed in the Urim and Thummim, stood before two urns. One of the
urns contained the names of the tribes, the other the names of the districts into which the
land was divided. The holy spirit caused him to exclaims "Zebulon." When he put his hand into
the first urn, lo, he drew forth the word Zebulon, and from the other came the word Accho,
meaning the district of Accho. Thus it happened with each tribe in succession. (47) In order
that the boundaries might remain fixed, Joshua had had the Hazubah (48) planted between the
districts. The rootstock of this plant once established in a spot, it can be extirpated only
with the greatest difficulty. The plough may draw deep furrows over it, yet it puts forth new
shoots, and grows up again amid the grain, still marking the old division lines. (49)

In connection with the allotment of the land Joshua issued ten ordinances intended, in a measure,
to restrict the rights in private property: Pasturage in the woods was to be free to the public
at large. Any one was permitted to gather up bits of wood in the field. The same permission
to gather up all grasses, wherever they might grow, unless they were in a field that had been
sown with fenugreek, which needs grass for protection. For grafting purposes twigs could be
cut from any plant except the olive-trees. Water springs belonged to the whole town. It was
lawful for any one to catch fish in the Sea of Tiberias, provided navigation was not impeded.
The area adjacent to the outer side of a fence about a field might be used by any passer-by
to ease nature. From the close of the harvest until the seventeenth day of Marheshwan fields
could be crossed. A traveler who lost his way among vineyards could not be held responsible
for the damage done in the effort to recover the right path. A dead body found in a field was
to be buried on the spot where it was found. (50)

The allotment of the land to the tribes and subdividing each district among the tribesmen took
as much time as the conquest of the land. (51)

When the two tribes and a half from the land beyond Jordan returned home after an absence of
fourteen years, they were not a little astonished to hear that the boys who had been too young
to go to the wars with them had in the meantime shown themselves worthy of the fathers. They
had been successful in repulsing the Ishmaelitish tribes who had taken advantage of the absence
of the men capable of bearing arms to assault their wives and children. (52)

After a leadership of twenty-eight years (53), marked with success (54) in war and in peace,
Joshua departed this life. His followers laid the knives he had used in circumcising the Israelites
(55) into his grave, and over it they erected a pillar as a memorial of the great wonder of
the sun's standing still over Ajalon. (56) However, the mourning for Joshua was not so great
as might justly have been expected. The cultivation of the recently conquered land so occupied
the attention of the tribes that they came nigh forgetting the man to whom chiefly they owed
their possession of it. As a punishment for their ingratitude, God, soon after Joshua's death,
brought also the life of the high priest Eleazar and of the other elders to a close, and the
mount on which Joshua's body was interred began to tremble, and threatened to engulf the Jews. (57)

THE FIRST JUDGE

After the death of Joshua the Israelites inquired to God whether they were to go up against
the Canaanites in war. They were given the answer: "If ye are pure of heart, go forth unto
the combat; but if your hearts are sullied with sin, then refrain." They inquired furthermore
how to test the heart of the people. God ordered them to cast lots and set apart those designated
by lot, for they would be the sinful among them. Again, when the people besought God to give
it a guide and leader, an angel answered: "Cast lots in the tribe of Caleb." The lot designated
Kenaz, and he was made prince over Israel. (1)

His first act was to determine by lot who were the sinners in Israel, and what their inward
thought. He declared before the people: "If I and my house be set apart by lot, deal with us
as we deserve, burn us with fire." The people assenting, lots were cast, and 345 of the tribe
of Judah were singled out, 560 of Reuben, 775 of Simon, 150 of Levi, 665 of Issachar, 545 of
Zebulon, 380 of Gad, and 665 of Asher, 480 of Manasseh, 448 of Ephraim, and 267 of Benhamin.
(2) So 6110 (3) persons were confined in prison, until God should let it be know what was to
be done with them. The united prayers of Kenaz, Eleazar the high priest, and the elders of
the congregation, were answered thus: "Ask these men now to confess their iniquity, and they
shall be burnt with fire." Kenaz thereupon exhorted them: "Ye know that Achan, the son of Zabdi,
committed the trespass of taking the anathema, but the lot fell upon him, and he confessed
his sin. Do ye likewise confess your sins, that ye may come to life with those whom God will
revive on the day of the resurrection." (4)

One of the sinful, a man by the name of Elah, (5) said in reply thereto: "If thou desirest
to bring forth the truth, address thyself to each of the tribes separately." (6) Kenaz began
with his own, the tribe of Judah. The wicked of Judah confessed to the sin of worshipping the
golden calf, like unto their forefathers in the desert. The Reubenites had burnt sacrifices
to idols. The Levites said: "We desired to prove whether the Tabernacle is holy." Those of
the tribe of Issachar replied: "We consulted idols to know what will become of us." (7) The
sinners of Zebulon: "We desired to eat the flesh of our sons and daughters, to know whether
the Lord loves them." The Danites admitted, they had taught their children out of the books
of the Amorites, which they had hidden then under Mount Abarim, (8) where Kenaz actually found
them. The Naphtalites confessed to the same transgression, only they had concealed the books
in the tent of Elah, and there they were found by Kenaz. The Gadites acknowledged having led
an immoral life, and the sinners of Asher, that they had found, and had hidden under Mount
Shechem, the seven golden idols called by the Amorites the holy nymphs   the same seven idols
which had been made in a miraculous way after the deluge by the seven sinners, Canaan, Put,
Shelah, Nimrod, Elath, Diul, and Shuah. (9) They were of precious stones from Havilah, which
radiated light, making night bright as day. Besides, they possessed a rare virtue: if a blind
Amorite kissed one of the idols, and at the same time touched its eyes, his sight was restored.
(10) After the sinners of Asher, those of Manasseh made their confession   they had desecrated
the Sabbath. The Ephraimites owned to having sacrificed their children to Moloch. Finally,
the Benjamites said: "We desired to prove whether the law emanated from God or from Moses."

At the command of God these sinners and all their possessions were burnt with fire at the brook
of Pishon. Only the Amorite books and the idols of precious stones remained unscathed. Neither
fire nor water could do them harm. Kenaz decided to consecrate the idols to God, but a revelation
came to him, saying: "If God were to accept what has been declared anathema, why should not
man?" He was assured that God would destroy the things over which human hands had no power.
Kenaz, acting under Divine instruction, bore them to the summit of a mountain, where an altar
was erected. The books and the idols were placed upon it, and the people offered many sacrifices
and celebrated the whole day as a festival. During the night following, Kenaz saw dew rise
from the ice in Paradise and descend upon the books. The letters of their writing were obliterated
by it, and then an angel came and annihilated what was left. (11) During the same night an
angel carried off the seven gems, and threw them to the bottom of the sea. Meanwhile a second
angel brought twelve other gems, engraving the names of the twelve sons of Jacob upon them,
one name upon each. No two of these gems were alike: (12) the first, to bear the name of Reuben,
was like sardius; the second, for Simon, like topaz; the third, Levi, like emerald; the fourth,
Judah, like carbuncle; the fifth, Issachar, like sapphire; the sixth, Zebulon, like jasper;
the seventh, Dan, like ligure; the eighth, Naphtali, like amethyst; the ninth, Gad, like agate;
the tenth, Asher, like chrysolite; the eleventh, Joseph, like beryl; and the twelfth, Benjamin,
like onyx.

Now God commanded Kenaz to deposit twelve stones in the holy Ark, and there they were to remain
until such time as Solomon should build the Temple, and attach them to the Cherubim. (13) Furthermore,
this Divine communication was made to Kenaz: "And it shall come to pass, when the sin of the
children of men shall have been completed by defiling My Temple, the Temple they themselves
shall build, that I will take these stones, together with the tables of the law, and put them
in the place whence they were removed of old, and there they shall remain until the end of
all time, when I will visit the inhabitants of the earth. Then I will take them up, and they
shall be an everlasting light to those who love me and keep my commandments." (14)

When Kenaz bore the stones to the sanctuary, they illumined the earth like unto the sun at midday.

 CAMPAIGNS OF KENAZ

After these preparations Kenaz took the field against the enemy, with three hundred thousand
men. (15) The first day he slew eight thousand of the foe, and the second day five thousand.
But not all the people were devoted to Kenaz. Some murmured against him, and calumniating him,
said: "Kenaz stays at home, while we expose ourselves on the field." The servants of Kenaz
reported these words to him. He ordered the thirty-seven (16) men who had railed against him
to be incarcerated, and he swore to kill them, if God would but grant him assistance for the
sake of His people.

Thereupon he assembled three hundred men of his attendants, supplied them with horses, and
bade them be prepared to make a sudden attack during the night, but to tell none of the plans
he harbored in his mind. The scouts sent ahead to reconnoitre reported that the Amorites were
too powerful for him to risk an engagement. Kenaz, however, refused to be turned away from
his intention. At midnight he and his three hundred trusty attendants advanced upon the Amorite
camp. Close upon it, he commanded his men to halt, but to resume their march and follow him
when they should hear the notes of the trumpet. If the trumpet was not sounded, they were to
return home.

Alone Kenaz ventured into the very camp of the enemy. Praying to God fervently, he asked that
a sign be given him: "Let this be the sign of the salvation Thou wilt accomplish for me this
day: I shall draw my sword from its sheath, and brandish it so that it glitters in the camp
of the Amorites. If the enemy recognize it as the sword of Kenaz, then I shall know Thou wilt
deliver them into my hand; if not, I shall understand Thou hast not granted my prayer, but
dost purpose to deliver me into the hand of the enemy for my sins."

He heard the Amorites say: "Let us proceed to give battle to the Israelites, for our sacred
gods, the nymphs, are in their hands, and will cause their defeat." When he heard these words,
the spirit of God came over Kenaz. He arose and swung his sword above his head. Scarce had
the Amorites seen it gleam in the air when they exclaimed: "Verily, this is the sword of Kenaz,
who has come to inflict wounds and pain. But we know that our gods, who are held by the Israelites,
will deliver them into our hands. Up, then, to battle!" Knowing that God had heard his petition,
Kenaz threw himself upon the Amorites, and mowed down forty-five thousand of them, and as many
perished at the hands of their own brethren, for God had sent the angel Gabriel (17) to his
aid, and he had struck the Amorites blind, so that they fell upon one another. On account of
the vigorous blows dealt by Kenaz on all sides, his sword stuck to his hand. A fleeing Amorite,
whom he stopped, to ask him how to loose it, advised him to slay a Hebrew, and let his warm
blood flow over his hand. Kenaz accepted his advice, but only in part: instead of a Hebrew,
he slew the Amorite himself, and his blood freed his hand from the sword. (18)

When Kenaz came back to his men, he found them sunk in profound sleep, which had overtaken
them that they might not see the wonders done for their leader. They were not a little astonished,
on awakening, to behold the whole plain strewn with the dead bodies of the Amorites. Then Kenaz
said to them: "Are the ways of God like unto the ways of man? Through me the Lord hath sent
deliverance to this people. Arise now and go back to your tents." The people recognized that
a great miracle had happened, and they said: "Now we know that God hath wrought salvation for
His people; He hath no need of numbers, but only of holiness."

On his return from the campaign, Kenaz was received with great rejoicing. The whole people
now gave thanks to God for having put him over them as their leader. They desired to know how
he had won the great victory. Kenaz only answered: "Ask those who were with me about my deeds."
His men were thus forced to confess that they knew nothing, only, on awakening, they had seen
the plain full of dead bodies, without being able to account for their being there. Then Kenaz
turned to the thirty-seven men imprisoned, before he left for the war, for having cast aspersions
upon him. "Well," he said, "what charge have you to make against me?" Seeing that death was
inevitable, they confessed they were of the sort of sinners whom Kenaz and the people had executed,
and God had now surrendered them to him on account of their misdeeds. They, too, were burnt
with fire.

Kenaz reigned for a period of fifty-seven years. When he felt his end draw nigh, he summoned
the two prophets, Phinehas and Jabez, (19) together with the priest Phinehas, the son of Eleazar.
To these he spake: "I know the heart of this people, it will turn from following after the
Lord. Therefore do I testify against it." Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, replied: "As Moses
and Joshua testified, so do I testify against it; for Moses and Joshua prophesied concerning
the vineyard, the beautiful planting of the Lord, which knew not who had planted it, and did
not recognize Him who cultivated it, so that the vineyard was destroyed, and brought forth
no fruit. These are the words my father commanded me to say unto this people."

Kenaz broke out into loud wailing, and with him the elders and the people, and they wept until
eventide, saying: "Is it for the iniquity of the sheep that the shepherd must perish? May the
Lord have compassion upon His inheritance that it may not work in vain."

The spirit of God descended upon Kenaz, and he beheld a vision. He prophesied that this world
would continue to exist only seven thousand years, to be followed then by the Kingdom of Heaven.
These words spoken, the prophetical spirit departed from him, and he straightway forgot what
he had uttered during his vision. Before he passed away, he spoke once more, saying: "If such
be the rest which the righteous obtain after their death, it were better for them to die than
live in this corrupt world and see its iniquities." (20)

As Kenaz left no male heirs, Zebul was appointed his successor. Mindful of the great service
Kenaz had performed for the nation, Zebul acted a father's part toward the three unmarried
daughters of his predecessor. At his instance, the people assigned a rich marriage portion
to each of them; they were given great domains as their property. The oldest of the three,
Ethema by name, he married to Elizaphan; the second, Pheila, to Odihel; and the youngest, Zilpah,
to Doel.

Zebul, the judge, instituted a treasury at Shiloh. He bade the people bring contributions,
whether of gold or of silver. They were only to take heed not to carry anything thither that
had originally belonged to an idol. His efforts were crowned with success. The free-will offerings
to the temple treasure amounted to twenty talents of gold and two hundred and fifty talents
of silver.

Zebul's reign lasted twenty-five years. Before his death he admonished the people solemnly
to be God-fearing and observant of the law. (21)

 OTHNIEL

Othniel was a judge of a very different type. His contemporaries said, that before the sun
of Joshua went down, the sun of Othniel, his successor in the leadership of the people , appeared
on the horizon. The new leader's real name was Judah; Othniel was one of his epithets, as Jabez
was another. (22)

Among the judges, Othniel represents the class of scholars. His acumen was so great that he
was able, by dint of dialect reasoning, to restore the seventeen hundred traditions (23) which
Moses had taught the people, and which had been forgotten in the time of mourning for Moses.
Nor was his zeal for the promotion of the study of the Torah inferior to his learning. The
descendants of Jethro left Jericho, the district assigned to them, and journeyed to Arad, only
that thy might sit at the feed to Othniel. (24) His wife, the daughter of his half-brother
Caleb, was not so well pleased with him. She complained to her father that her husband's house
was bare of all earthly goods, and his only possession was knowledge of the Torah. (25)

The first event to be noted in Othniel's forty years' reign (26) is his victory over Adoni-bezek.
This chief did not occupy a prominent position among the Canaanitish rulers. He was not even
accounted a king, nevertheless he had conquered seventy foreign kings. (27) The next event
was the capture of Luz by the Israelites. The only way to gain entrance into Luz was by a cave,
and the road to the cave lay through a hollow almond tree. If the secret approach to the city
had not been betrayed by one of its residents, it would have been impossible for the Israelites
to reach it. God rewarded the informer who put the Israelites in the way of capturing Luz.
The city he founded was left unmolested both by Sennacherib and Nebuchadnezzar, and not event
the Angel of Death has power over its inhabitants. They never die, unless, weary of life, they
leave the city. (28)

The same good fortune did not mark Othniel's reign throughout. For eight years Israel suffered
oppression at the hands of Cushan, the evil-doer who in former days had threatened to destroy
the patriarch Jacob, as he was now endeavoring to destroy the descendants of Jacob, for Cushan
is only another name for Laban. (29)

Othniel, however, was held so little answerable for the causes that had brought on the punishment
of the people, that God granted him eternal life; he is one of the few who reached Paradise
alive. (30)

 BOAZ AND RUTH

The story of Ruth came to pass a hundred (31) years after Othniel's reign. Conditions in Palestine
were of such a nature that if a judge said to a man, "Remove the mote from thine eye," his
reply was, "Do thou remove the beam from thine own." (32) To chastise the Israelites God sent
down them one of the ten seasons of famine which He had ordained, as disciplinary measures
for mankind, from the creation of the world until the advent of Messiah. (33) Elimelech (34)
and his sons, (35) who belonged to the aristocracy of the land, attempted neither to improve
(36) the sinful generation whose transgressions had called forth the famine, nor alleviated
the distress that prevailed about them. They left Palestine, and thus withdrew themselves from
the needy who had counted upon their help. They turned their faced to Moab. (37) There, on
account of their wealth and high descent, they were made officers in the army. (38) Mahlon
and Chilion, the sons of Elimelech, rose to still higher distinction, they married the daughters
of the Moabite king Eglon (39) But this did not happen until after the death of Elimelech,
who was opposed to intermarriage with the heathen. (40) Neither the wealth nor the family connections
of the two men helped them before God. First they sank into poverty, and, as they continued
in their sinful ways, God took their life. (41)

Naomi, their mother, resolved to return to her home. Her two daughters-in-law were very dear
to her on account of the love they had borne her sons, a love strong even in death, for they
refused to marry again. (42) Yet she would not take them with her to Palestine, because she
foresaw contemptuous treatment in store for them as Moabitish women. (43) Orpah was easily
persuaded to remain behind. She accompanied her mother-in-law a distance of four miles, and
then she took leave of her, shedding only four tears as she bade her farewell. Subsequent events
showed that she had not been worthy of entering into the Jewish communion, for scarcely had
she separated from Naomi when she abandoned herself to an immoral life. But with God nothing
goes unrewarded. For the four miles which Orpah travelled with Naomi, she was recompensed by
bringing forth four giants, Goliath and his three brothers. (44)

Ruth's bearing and history were far different. She was determined to become a Jewess, and her
decision could not be shaken by what Naomi, in compliance with the Jewish injunction, told
her of the difficulties of the Jewish law. Naomi warned her that the Israelites had been enjoined
to keep Sabbaths and feast days, (45) and that the daughters of Israel were not in the habit
of frequenting the threatres and circuses of the heathen. Ruth only affirmed her readiness
to follow Jewish customs. (46) And when Naomi said: "We have one Torah, one law, one command;
the Eternal our God is one, there is none beside Him," Ruth answered: "Thy people shall be
my people, thy God my God." (47) So the two women journeyed together to Bethlehem. They arrived
there on the very day on which the wife of Boaz was buried, and the concourse assembled for
the funeral saw Naomi as she returned to her home. (48)

Ruth supported herself and her mother-in-law sparsely with the ears of grain which she gathered
in the fields. Association with so pious a woman as Naomi (49) had already exercised great
influence upon her life and ways. Boaz was astonished to notice that if the reapers let more
than two ears fall, in spite of her need she did not pick them up, for the gleaning assigned
to the poor by law does not refer to quantities of more than two ears inadvertently dropped
at one time. (50) Boaz also admired her grace, her decorous conduct, her modest demeanor. (51)
When he learned who she was, he commended her for her attachment to Judaism. To his praise
she returned: "Thy ancestors found no delight even in Timna, (52) the daughter of a royal house.
As for me, I am a member of a low people, abominated by thy God, and excluded from the assembly
of Israel." For the moment Boaz failed to recollect the Halakah bearing on the Moabites and
Ammonites. A voice from heaven reminded him that only their males were affected by the command
of exclusion. (53) This he told to Ruth, and he also told her of a vision he had had concerning
her descendants. For the sake of the good she had done to her mother-in-law, kings and prophets
would spring from her womb. (54)

Boaz showed kindness not only to Ruth and Naomi, but also to their dead. He took upon himself
the decent burial of the remains of Elimelech and his two sons. (55) All this begot in Naomi
the thought that Boaz harbored the intention of marrying Ruth. She sought to coax the secret,
if such there was, from Ruth. (56) When she found that nothing could be elicited from her daughter-in-law,
she made Ruth her partner in a plan to force Boaz into a decisive step. Ruth adhered to Naomi's
directions in every particular, except that she did not wash and anoint herself and put on
fine raiment, until after she had reached her destination. She feared to attract the attention
of the lustful, if she walked along the road decked out in unusual finery. (57)

The moral conditions in those days were very reprehensible. Though Boaz was high-born and a
man of substance, yet he slept on the threshing-floor, so that his presence might act as a
check upon profligacy. In the midst of his sleep, Boaz was startled to find some one next to
him. At first he thought it was a demon. Ruth calmed his disquietude (58) with these words:
"Thou art the head of the court, thy ancestors were princes, thou art thyself an honorable
man, and a kinsman of my dead husband. As for me, who am in the flower of my years, since I
left the home of my parents where homage is rendered unto idols, I have been constantly menaced
by the dissolute young men around. (59) So I have come hither that thou, who art the redeemer,
mayest spread out thy skirt over me." (60) Boaz gave her the assurance that if his older brother
Tob (61) failed her, he would assume the duties of a redeemer. The next day he came before
the tribunal of the Sanhedrin (62) to have the matter adjusted. Tob soon made his appearance,
for an angel led him to the place where he was wanted, (63) that Boaz and Ruth might not have
long to wait. Tob, who was not learned in the Torah, did not know that the prohibition against
the Moabites had reference only to males. Therefore, he declined to marry Ruth. (64) So she
was taken to wife (65) by the octogenarian (66) Boaz. Ruth herself was forty years old (67)
at the time of her second marriage, and it was against all expectations that her union with
Boaz should be blessed with offspring, a son Obed the pious. (68) Ruth lived to see the glory
of Solomon, but Boaz died on the day after the wedding. (69)

 DEBORAH

Not long after Ruth, another ideal woman arose in Israel, the prophetess Deborah.

When Ehud died, there was none to take his place as judge, and the people fell off from God
and His law. God, therefore, sent an angel to them with the following message: "Out of all
the nations on earth, I chose a people for Myself, and I thought, so long as the world stands,
My glory will rest upon them. I sent Moses unto them, My servant, to teach them goodness and
righteousness. But they strayed from My ways. And now I will arouse their enemies against them,
to rule over them, and they will cry out: 'Because we forsook the ways of our fathers, hath
this come over us.' Then I will send a woman unto them, and she will shine for them as a light
for forty years." (70)

The enemy whom God raised up against Israel was Jabin, (71) the king of Hazor, who oppressed
him sorely. But worse than the king himself was his general Sisera, one of the greatest heroes
know to history. When he was thirty years old, he had conquered the whole world. At the sound
of his voice the strongest of walls fell in a heap, and the wild animals in the woods were
chained to the spot by fear. The proportions of his body were vast beyond description. If he
took a bath in the river, and dived beneath the surface, enough fish were caught in his beard
to feed a multitude, and it required no less than nine hundred horses to draw the chariot in
which he rode. (72)

To rid Israel of this tyrant, God appointed Deborah and her husband Barak. Barak was an ignoramus,
like most of his contemporaries. It was a time singularly deficient to scholars. (73) In order
to do something meritorious in connection with the Divine service, he carried candles, at his
wife's instance, to the sanctuary, wherefrom he was called Lipidoth, "Flames." Deborah was
in the habit of making the wicks on the candles very thick, so that they might burn a long
time. Therefore God distinguished her. He said: "Thou takest pains to shed light in My house,
and I will let thy light, thy flame, shine abroad in the whole land." Thus it happened that
Deborah became a prophetess and a judge. She dispensed judgement in the open air, for it was
not becoming that men should visit a woman in her house. (74)

Prophetess though she was, she was yet subject to the frailties of her sex. Her self-consciousness
was inordinate. She sent for Barak (75) to come to her instead of going to him, (76) and in
her song she spoke more of herself than was seemly. The result was that the prophetical spirit
departed from her for a time while she was composing her song. (77)

The salvation of Israel was effected only after the people, assembled on the Mount of Judah,
had confessed their sins publicly before God and besought His help. A seven days' fast was
proclaimed for men and women, for young and old. Then God resolved to help the Israelites,
not for their sakes, but for the sake of keeping the oath he had sworn to their forefathers,
never to abandon their seed. Therefore He sent Deborah unto them. (78)

The task allotted to Deborah and Barak, to lead the attack upon Sisera, was by no means slight.
It is comparable with nothing less than Joshua's undertaking to conquer Canaan. Joshua had
triumphed over only thirty-one of the sixty-two kings of Palestine, leaving at large as many
as he had subdued. Under the leadership of Sisera these thirty-one unconquered kings opposed
Israel. (79) No less than forty thousand armies, each counting a hundred thousand warriors,
were arrayed against Deborah and Barak. (80) God aided Israel with water and fire. The river
Kishon and all the fiery hosts of heaven (81) except the star Meros (82) fought against Sisera.
The Kishon had long before been pledged to play its part in Sisera's overthrow. When the Egyptians
were drowned in the Red Sea, God commanded the Angel of the Sea to cast their corpses on the
land, that the Israelites might convince themselves of the destruction of their foes, and those
of little faith might not say afterward that the Egyptians like the Israelites had reached
dry land. The Angel of the Sea complained of the impropriety of withdrawing a gift. God mollified
him with the promise of future compensation. The Kishon was offered as security that he would
received half as many bodies again as he was now giving up. When Sisera's troops sought relief
from the scorching fire of the heavenly bodies in the coolness of the waters of the Kishon,
God commanded the river to redeem its pledge. And so the heathen were swept down into the Sea
by the waves of the river Kishon, whereat the fishes in the Sea exclaimed: "And the truth of
the Lord endureth forever." (83)

Sisera's lot was no better than the lot of the men. He fled from the battle on horseback (84)
after witnessing the annihilation of his vast army. When Jael saw him approach, she went to
meet him arrayed in rich garments and jewels. She was unusually beautiful, and her voice was
the most seductive ever a woman possessed. (85) These are the words she addressed to him: "Enter
and refresh thyself with food, and sleep until evening, and then I will send my attendants
with thee to accompany thee, for I know thou wilt not forget me, and thy recompense will not
fail." When Sisera, on stepping into her tent, saw the bed strewn with roses which Jael had
prepared for him, he resolved to take her home to his mother as his wife, as soon as his safety
should be assured.

He asked her for milk to drink, saying: "My soul burns with the flame which I saw in the stars
contending for Israel." Jael went forth to milk her goat, meantime supplicating God to grant
her His help: "I pray to Thee, O Lord, to strengthen Thy maid-servant against the enemy. By
this token shall I know that Thou wilt aid me   if, when I enter the house, Sisera will awaken
and ask for water to drink." Scarcely had Jael crossed the threshold when Sisera awakened and
begged for water to quench his burning thirst. Jael gave him wine mixed with water, which caused
him to drop into a sound sleep again. The woman then took a wooden spike in her left hand,
approached the sleeping warrior, and said: "This shall be the sign that Thou wilt deliver him
into my hand   if I draw him from the bed down on the ground without awaking him." She tugged
at Sisera, and in very truth he did not awaken even when he dropped from the bed to the floor.
Then Jael prayed: "O God, strengthen the arm of Thy maid-servant this day, for Thy sake, for
the sake of Thy people, and for the sake of those that hope in Thee." With a hammer she drove
the spike into the temple of Sisera, who cried out as he was expiring: "O that I should lose
my life by the hand of a woman!" Jael's mocking retort was: "Descend to hell and join thy fathers,
and tell them that thou didst fall by the hand of a woman." (86)

Barak took charge of the body of the dead warrior, and he sent it to Sisera's mother, Themac,
(87) with the message: "Here is thy son, whom thou didst expect to see returning laden with
booty." He had in mind the vision of Themac and her women-in-waiting. When Sisera went forth
to battle, their conjuring tricks had shown him to them as he lay on the bed of a Jewish woman.
This they had interpreted to mean that he would return with Jewish captives. "One damsel, two
damsels for ever man." (88) they had said. Great, therefore, was the disappointment of Sisera's
mother. No less than a hundred cries did she utter over him. (89)

Deborah and Barak thereupon intoned a song of praise, thanking God for the deliverance of Israel
out of the power of Sisera, and reviewing the history of the people since the time of Abraham. (90)

After laboring for the weal of her nation for forty years, Deborah departed this life. Her
last words to the weeping people were an exhortation not to depend upon the dead. They can
do nothing for the living. So long as a man is alive, his prayers are efficacious for himself
and for others. They avail naught once he is dead.

The whole nation kept a seventy days' period of mourning in honor of Deborah, and the land
was at peace for seven years. (91)

 GIDEON

Elated by the victory over Sisera, Israel sang a hymn of praise, the song of Deborah, and God,
to reward them for their pious sentiments, pardoned the transgression of the people. (92) But
they soon slipped back into the old ways, and the old troubles harassed them. Their backsliding
was due to the witchcraft of a Midianite priest named Aud. He made the sun shine at midnight,
and so convinced the Israelites that the idols of Midian were mightier than God, and God chastised
them by delivering them into the hands of the Midianties. (93) They worshipped their own images
reflected in the water, (94) and they were stricken with dire poverty. They could not bring
so much as a meal offering, the offering of the poor. (95) On the eve of one Passover, Gideon
uttered the complaint: "Where are all the wondrous works which God did for our fathers in this
night, when he slew the first-born of the Egyptians, and Israel went forth from slavery with
joyous hearts?" God appeared unto him, and said: "Thou who art courageous enough to champion
Israel, thou art worthy that Israel should be saved for thy sake." (96)

An angel appeared, and Gideon begged him for a sign, that he would achieve the deliverance
of Israel. He excused his petition with the precedent of Moses, the first prophet, who likewise
has asked for a sign. The angel bade him pour water on the rock, and then gave him the choice
of how he would have the water transformed. Gideon desired to see one-half changed into blood,
and one-half into fire. Thus it happened. The blood and the fire mingled with each other, yet
the blood did not quench the fire, nor did the fire dry out the blood. Encouraged by this and
other signs, (97) Gideon undertook to carry on the war against the Midianites with a band of
three hundred God-fearing men, and he was successful. Of the enemy one hundred and twenty thousand
corpses covered the field, and all the rest fled precipitately. (98)

Gideon enjoyed the privilege of bringing salvation to Israel because he was a good son. His
old father feared to thresh his grain on account of the Midianites, and Gideon once went out
to him in the field and said: "Father, thou art too old to do this work; go thou home, and
I shall finish thy task for thee. If the Midianites should surprise me out here, I can run
away, which thou canst not do, on account of thy age." (99)

The day on which Gideon gained his great victory was during the Passover, and the cake of barley
bread that turned the camp of the enemy upside down, of which the Midianite dreamed, was a
sign that God would espouse the cause of His people to reward them for bringing a cake of barley
bread as an 'Omer offering. (100)

After God had favored Israel with great help through him, Gideon had an ephod made. In the
high priest's breastplate, Joseph was represented among the twelve tribes by Ephraim alone,
not by Manasseh, too. To wipe out this slight upon his own tribe, Gideon made an ephod bearing
the name of Manasseh. He consecrated it to God, but after his death homage was paid to it as
an idol. (101) In those days the Israelites were so addicted to the worship of Beelzebub that
they constantly carried small images of this god with them in their pockets, and every now
and then they were in the habit of bringing the image forth and kissing it fervently. (102)
Of such idolaters were the vain and light fellows who helped Abimelech, the son of Gideon by
his concubine from Shechem, to assassinate the other sons of his father. But God is just. As
Abimelech murdered his brothers upon a stone, so Abimelech himself met his death through a
millstone. It was proper, then, that Jotham, in his parable, should compare Abimelech to a
thorn-bush, while he characterized his predecessors, Othniel, Deborah, and Gideon, as an olive-tree,
or a fig-tree, or a vine. This Jotham, the youngest of the sons of Gideon, was more than a
teller of parables. He knew then that long afterward the Samaritans would claim sanctity for
Mount Gerizim, on account of the blessing pronounced from it upon the tribe. For this reason
he chose Gerizim from which to hurl his curse upon Shechem and it inhabitants. (103)

The successor to Abimelech equalled, if he did not surpass, him in wickedness. Jair erected
an altar unto Baal, and on penalty of death he forced the people to prostrate themselves before
it. Only seven men remained firm in the true faith, and refused to the last to commit idolatry.
Their names were Deuel, Abit Yisreel, Jekuthiel, Shalom, Ashur, Jehonadab, and Shemiel. (104)
They said to Jair: "We are mindful of the lessons given us by our teachers and our mother Deborah.
'Take ye heed,' they said, 'that your heart lead you not astray to the right or to the left.
Day and night ye shall devote yourselves to the study of the Torah.' Why, then, dost thou seek
to corrupt the people of the Lord, saying, 'Baal is God, let us worship him'? If he really
is what thou sayest, then let him speak like a god, and we will pay him worship." For the blasphemy
they had uttered against Baal, Jair commanded that the seven men be burnt. When his servants
were about to carry out his order, God sent the angel Nathaniel, the lord over the fire, and
he extinguished the fire though not before the servants of Jair were consumed by it. Not only
did the seven men escape the danger of suffering death by fire, but the angel enabled them
to flee unnoticed, by striking all the people present with blindness. Then the angel approached
Jair, and said to him: "Hear the words of the Lord ere thou diest. I appointed thee as prince
over my people, and thou didst break My covenant, seduce My people, and seek to burn My servants
with fire, but they were animated and freed by the living, the heavenly fire. As for thee,
thou wilt die, and die by fire, a fire in which thou wilt abide forever."

Thereupon the angel burnt him with a thousand men, whom he had taken in the act of paying homage
to Baal. (105)

 JEPHTHAH

The first judge of any importance after Gideon was Jephthah. He, too, fell short of being the
ideal Jewish ruler. His father had married a woman of another tribe, an unusual occurrence
in a time when a woman who left her tribe was held in contempt.(106) Jephthah, the offspring
of this union, had to bear the consequences of his mother's irregular conduct. So many annoyances
were put upon him that he was forced to leave his home and settle in a heathen district. (107)

At first Jephthah refused to accept the rulership which the people offered him in an assembly
at Mizpah, for he had not forgotten the wrongs to which he had been subjected. In the end,
however, he yielded, and placed himself at the head of the people in the war against Getal,
the king of the Ammonites. At his departure, he vowed before God to sacrifice to Him whatsoever
came forth out of the doors of his house to meet him when he returned a victor from the war.

God was angry and said: "So Jephthah has vowed to offer unto me the first thing that shall
meet him! If a dog were the first to meet him, would a dog be sacrificed to me? Now shall the
vow of Jephthah be visited on his first-born, on his own offspring, yea, his prayer shall be
visited on his only daughter. But I assuredly shall deliver my people, not for Jephthah's sake,
but for the sake of the prayers of Israel."

The first to meet him after his successful campaign was his daughter Sheilah. Overwhelmed by
anguish, the father cried out: "Rightly was the name Sheilah, the one who is demanded, given
to thee, that thou shouldst be offered up as a sacrifice. Who shall set my heart in the balance
and my soul as the weight, that I may stand and see whether that which happened to me is joy
or sorrow? But because I opened my mouth to the Lord, and uttered a vow, I cannot take it back."
Then Sheilah spoke, saying: "Why dost thou grieve for my death, since the people was delivered?
Dost thou not remember what happened in the day of our forefathers, when the father offered
his son as a burnt offering, and the son did not refuse, but consented gladly, and the offerer
and the offered were both full of joy? Therefore, do as thou hast spoken. But before I die
I will ask a favor of thee. Grant me that I may go with my companions upon the mountains, sojourn
among the hills, and tread upon the rocks to shed my tears and deposit there the grief for
my lost youth. The trees of the field shall weep for me, and the beasts of the field mourn
for me. I do not grieve for my death, nor because I have to yield up my life, but because when
my father vowed his heedless vow, he did not have me in mind. I fear, therefore, that I may
not be an acceptable sacrifice, and that my death shall be for nothing." Sheilah and her companions
went forth and told her case to the sages of the people, but none of them could give her any
help. Then she went up to Mount Telag, where the Lord appeared to her at night, saying unto
her: "I have closed the mouth of the sages of my people in this generation, that they cannot
answer the daughter of Jephthah a word; that my vow be fulfilled and nothing of what I have
thought remain undone. I know her to be wiser than her father, and all the wise men, and now
her soul shall be accepted at her request, and her death shall be very precious before My face
all the time." Sheilah began to bewail her fate in these words: "Hearken, ye mountains, to
my lamentations, and ye hills, to the tears of my eyes, and ye rocks, testify to the weeping
of my soul. My words will go up to heaven, and my tears will be written in the firmament. I
have not been granted the joy of wedding, nor was the wreath of my betrothal completed. I have
not been decked with ornaments, nor have I been scented with myrrh and with aromatic perfumes.
I have not been anointed with the oil that was prepared for me. Alas, O mother, it was in vain
thou didst give birth to me, the grave was destined to be my bridal chamber. The oil thou didst
prepare for me will be spilled, and the white garments my mother sewed for me, the moth will
eat them; the bridal wreath my nurse wound for me will wither, and my garments in blue and
purple, the worms will destroy them, and my companions will all their days lament over me.
And now, ye trees, incline your branches and weep over my youth; ye beasts of the forest, come
and trample upon my virginity, for my years are cut off, and the days of my life grow old in
darkness." (108)

Her lamentations were of as little avail as her arguments with her father. In vain she sought
to prove to him from the Torah that the law speaks only of animal sacrifices, never of human
sacrifices. In vain she cited the example of Jacob, who had vowed to give God a tenth of all
the possessions he owned, and yet did not attempt later to sacrifice one of his sons. Jephthah
was inexorable. All he would yield was a respite during which his daughter might visit various
scholars, who were to decide whether he was bound by his vow. According to the Torah his vow
was entirely invalid. He was not even obliged to pay his daughter's value in money. But the
scholars of his time had forgotten this Halakah, and they decided that he must keep his vow.
The forgetfulness of the scholars was of God, ordained as a punishment upon Jephthah for having
slaughtered thousands of Ephraim.

One man there was living at the time who, if he had been questioned about the case, would have
been able to give a decision. This was the high priest Phinehas. But he said proudly: "What!
I, a high priest, the son of a high priest, should humiliate myself and go to an ignoramus!"
Jephthah on the other hand said: "What! I, the chief of the tribes of Israel, the first prince
of the land, should humiliate myself and go to one of the rank and file!" So only the rivalry
between Jephthah and Phinehas caused the loss of a young life. Their punishment did not miss
them. Jephthah dies a horrible death. Limb by limb his body was dismembered. As for the high
priest, the holy spirit departed from him, and he had to give up his priestly dignity. (109)

As it had been Jephthah's task to ward off the Ammonites, so his successor Abdon was occupied
with protecting Israel against the Moabites. The king of Moab sent messengers to Abdon, and
they spoke thus: "Thou well knowest that Israel took possession of cities that belonged to
me. Return them." Abdon's reply was: "Know ye not how the Ammonites fared? The measure of Moab's
sins, it seems, out against the enemy, slew forty-five thousand of their number, and routed
the rest. (110)

 SAMSON

The last judge but one, Samson, was not the most important of the judges, but he was the greatest
hero of the period and, except Goliath, the greatest hero of all times. He was the son of Manoah
of the tribe of Dan, and his wife Zelalponit (111) of the tribe of Judah, (112) and he was
born to them at a time when they had given up all hope of having children. Samson's birth is
a striking illustration of the shortsightedness of human beings. The judge Ibzan had not invited
Manoah and Zelalponit to any of the one hundred and twenty feasts in honor of the marriage
of his sixty children, which were celebrated at his house and at the house of their parents-in-law,
because he thought that "the sterile she-mule" would never be in a position to repay his courtesy.
It turned out that Samson's parents were blessed with an extraordinary son, while Ibzan saw
his sixty children die during his lifetime. (113)

Samson's strength was superhuman, (114) and the dimensions of his body were gigantic   he measured
sixty ells between the shoulders. Yet he had one imperfection, he was maimed in both feet.
(115) The first evidence of his gigantic strength he gave when he uprooted two great mountains,
and rubbed them against each other. Such feats he was able to perform as often as the spirit
of God was poured out over him. Whenever this happened, it was indicated by his hair. In began
to move and emit a bell-like sound, which could be heard far off. Besides, while the spirit
rested upon him, he was able with one stride to cover a distance equal to that between Zorah
and Eshtaol. (116) It was Samson's supernatural strength that made Jacob think that he would
be the Messiah. When God showed him Samson's latter end, then he realized that the new era
would not be ushered in by the hero-judge. (117)

Samson won his first victory over the Philistines by means of the jawbone of the ass on which
Abraham had made his way to Mount Moriah. It had been preserved miraculously. (118) After this
victory a great wonder befell. Samson was at the point of perishing from thirst, when water
began to flow from his own mouth as from a spring. (119)

Besides physical prowess, Samson possessed also spiritual distinctions. He was unselfish to
the last degree. He had been of exceeding great help to the Israelites, but he never asked
the smallest service for himself. (120) When Samson told Delilah that he was a "Nazarite unto
God," she was certain that he had divulged the true secret of his strength. She knew his character
too well to entertain the idea that he would couple the name of God with an untruth. There
was a weak side to his character, too. He allowed sensual pleasures to dominate him. The consequences
was that "he who went astray after his eyes, lost his eyes." Even this severe punishment produced
no change of heart. He continued to lead his old life of profligacy in prison, and he was encouraged
thereto by the Philistines, who set aside all considerations of family purity in the hope of
descendants who should be the equals of Samson in giant strength and stature. (121)

As throughout life Samson had given proofs of superhuman power, so in the moment of death.
He entreated God to realize in him the blessing of Jacob, (122) and endow him with Divine strength.
(123) He expired with these words upon his lips: "O Master of the world! Vouchsafe unto me
in this life a recompense for the loss of one of my eyes. For the loss of the other I will
wait to be rewarded in the world to come." Even after his death Samson was a shield unto the
Israelites. Fear of him had so cowed the Philistines that for twenty years they did not dare
attack the Israelites. (124)

 THE CRIME OF THE BENJAMITES

A part of the money which Delilah received from the Philistine lords as the price of Samson's
secret, she gave to her son Micah, and he used it to make an idol for himself. (125) This sin
was the more unpardonable as Micah owed his life to a miracle performed by Moses. During the
times of the Egyptian oppression, if the prescribed number of bricks was not furnished by the
Israelites, their children were used as building material. Such would have been Micah's fate,
if he had not been saved in a miraculous way. Moses wrote down the Name of God, and put the
words on Micah's body. The dead boy came to life, and Moses drew him out of the wall of which
he made a part. (126) Micah did not show himself worthy of the wonder done for him. Even before
the Israelites left Egypt, he made his idol, (127) and it was he who fashioned the golden calf.
At the time of Othniel the judge, (128) he took up his abode at a distance of not more than
three miles from the sanctuary at Shiloh, (129) and won over the grandson of Moses (130) to
officiate as priest before his idol.

The sanctuary which Micah erected harbored various idols. He had three images of boys, and
three of calves, one lion, an eagle, a dragon, and a dove. When a man came who wanted a wife,
he was directed to appeal to the dove. If riches were his desire, he worshipped the eagle.
For daughters both, to the calves; to the lion for strength, and to the dragon for long life.
Sacrifices and incense alike were offered to these idols, and both had to be purchased with
cash money from Micah, even didrachms for a sacrifice, and one for incense. (131)

The rapid degeneration in the family of Moses may be accounted for by the fact that Moses had
married the daughter of a priest who ministered to idols. Yet, the grandson of Moses was not
an idolater of ordinary calibre. His sinful conduct was not without a semblance of morality.
From his grandfather he had heard the rule that a man should do "Abodah Zarah" for hire rather
than be dependent upon his fellow-creatures. The meaning of "Abodah Zarah" here naturally is
"strange," in the sense of "unusual" work, but he took the term in its ordinary acceptation
of "service of strange gods." (132) So far from being a whole-souled idolater, he adopted methods
calculated to harm the cause of idol worship. Whenever any one came leading an animal with
the intention of sacrificing it, he would say: "What good can the idol do thee? It can neither
see nor hear nor speak." But as he was concerned about his won livelihood, and did not want
to offend the idolaters too grossly, he would continue: "If thou bringest a dish of flour and
a few eggs, it will suffice." This offering he would himself eat.

Under David he filled the position of treasurer. David appointed him because he thought that
a man who was willing to become priest to an idol only in order to earn his bread, must be
worthy of confidence. However sincere his repentance may have been, he relapsed into his former
life when he was removed from his office by Solomon, who filled all position with new incumbents
at his accession to the throne. Finally he abandoned his idolatrous ways wholly, and became
so pure a man that the was favored by God with the gift of prophecy. This happened on the day
on which the man of God out of Judah came to Jeroboam, for the grandson of Moses is none other
than the old prophet at Beth-el who invited the man of God out of Judah to come to his house. (133)

The mischief done by Micah spread further and further. Especially the Benjamites distinguished
themselves for their zeal in paying homage to his idols. God therefore resolved to visit the
sins of Israel and Benjamin upon them. The opportunity did not delay to come. It was not long
before the Benjamites committed the outrage of Gibeah. Before the house of Bethac, a venerable
old man, they imitated the disgraceful conduct of the Sodomites before the house of Lot. When
the other tribes exacted amends from the Benjamites, and were denied satisfaction, bloody combats
ensued. At first the Benjamites prevailed, in spit of the fact that the Urim and Thummim questioned
by Phinehas had encouraged the Israelites to take up the conflict, with the words: "Up to war,
I shall deliver them into your hands." After the tribes had again and again suffered defeat,
they recognized the intention of God, to betray them as a punishment for their sins. They therefore
ordained a day of fasting and convocation before the holy Ark, and Phinehas the son of Eleazar
entreated God in their behalf: "What means this, that Thou leadest us astray? Is the deed of
the Benjamites right in Thine eyes? Then why didst Thou not command us to desist from the combat?
But if what our brethren have done is evil in Thy sight, then why dost Thou cause us to fall
before them in battle? O God of our fathers, hearken unto my voice. Make it known this day
unto Thy servant whether the war waged with Benjamin is pleasing in Thine eyes, or whether
thou desirest to punish Thy people for its sins. Then the sinners among us will amend their
ways. I am mindful of what happened in the days of my youth, at the time of Moses. In the zeal
of my soul I slew two for the sin of Zimri, and when his well-wishers sought to kill me, Thou
didst send an angel, who cut off twenty-four thousand of them and delivered me. But now eleven
of Thy tribes have gone forth to do Thy bidding, to avenge and slay, and, lo, they have themselves
been slain, so that they are made to believe that Thy revelations are lying and deceitful.
O Lord, God of our forefathers, naught is hidden before Thee. Make it manifest why this misfortune
has overtaken us."

God replied to Phinehas at great length, setting forth why eleven tribes had suffered so heavily.
The Lord had wanted to punished them for having permitted Micah and his mother Delilah to pursue
their evil ways undisturbed, though they were zealous beyond measure in avenging the wrong
done to the woman at Gibeah. As soon as all those had perished who were guilty of having aided
and abetted Micah in his idolatrous practices, whether directly or indirectly, God was willing
to help them in their conflicts with the Benjamites.

So it came. In the battle fought soon after, seventy-five thousand Benjamites fell slain. Only
six hundred of the tribe survived. (134) Fearing to remain in Palestine, the small band emigrated
to Italy and Germany. (135)

At the same time the punishment promised them by God overtook the two chief sinners. Micah
lost his life by fire, and his mother rotted alive; worms crawled from her body. (136)

In spite of the great mischief caused by Micah, he had one good quality, and God permitted
it to plead for him when the angel stood up against him as his accusers. He was extremely hospitable.
His house always stood wide open to the wanderer, and to his hospitality he owed it that he
was granted a share in the future world. (137) In hell Micah is the first in the sixth division,
which is under the guidance of the angel Hadriel, and he is the only one in the division who
is spared hell tortures. (138) Micah's sons was Jeroboam, whose golden calves were sinful far
beyond anything his father had done. (139)

In those days God spake to Phinehas: "Thou art one hundred and twenty years old, thou hast
reached the natural term of man's life. Go now, betake thyself to the mountain Danaben, and
remain there many years. I will command the eagles to sustain thee with food, so that thou
returnest not to men until the time when thou lockest fast the clouds and openest them again.
Then I will carry thee to the place where those are who were before thee, and there thou wilt
tarry until I visit the world, and bring thee thither to taste of death." (140)

ELKANAH AND HANNAH

The period of the Judges is linked to the period of the Kingdom by the prophet Samuel, who
anointed both Saul and David as kings. Not only was Samuel himself a prophet, but his forebears
also has been prophets, (1) and both his parents, Elkanah and Hannah, were endowed with the
gift of prophecy. (2) Aside from this gift, Elkanah possessed extraordinary virtue. He was
a second Abraham, the only pious man of his generation, who saved the world from destruction
when God, made wroth by the idolatry of Micah, was on the point of annihilating it utterly.
(3) His chief merit was that he stimulated the people by his example to go on pilgrimages to
Shiloh, the spiritual centre of the nation. Accompanied by his whole household, including kinsmen,
he was in the habit of making the three prescribed pilgrimages annually, and though he was
a man of only moderate means, (4) his retinue was equipped with great magnificence. In all
the towns through which it passed, the procession caused commotion. The lookers-on invariably
inquired into the reason of the rare spectacle, and Elkanah told them: "We are going to the
house of the Lord at Shiloh, for thence come forth the law. Why should you not join us?" Such
gentle, persuasive words did not fail of taking effect. In the first year five households undertook
the pilgrimage, the next year ten, and so on until the whole town followed his example. Elkanah
chose a new route every year. Thus he touched at many towns, and their inhabitants were led
to do a pious deed. (5)

In spite of his God-fearing ways, Elkanah's domestic life was not perfectly happy. He had been
married ten years, and his union with Hannah had not been blessed with offspring. (6) The love
he bore his wife compensated him for his childlessness, but Hannah herself insisted upon his
taking a second wife. Peninnah embraced every opportunity of vexing Hannah. In the morning
her derisive greeting to Hannah would be: "Dost thou not mean to rise and wash thy children,
and send them to school?" (7) Such jeers were to keep Hannah mindful of her childlessness.
Perhaps Peninnah's intentions were laudable: she may have wanted to bring Hannah to the point
of praying to God for children. (8) However it may have been forced from her, Hannah's petition
for a son was fervent and devout. She entreats God: "Lord of the world! Hast Thou created aught
in vain? Our eyes Thou hast destined for sight, our ears for hearing, our mouth for speech,
our nose to smell therewith, our hands for work. Didst Thou not create these breasts above
my heart to give suck to a babe? (9) O grant me a son, that he may draw nourishment therefrom.
Lord, Thou reignest over all beings, the mortal and the heavenly beings. The heavenly beings
neither eat nor drink, they do not propagate themselves, nor do they die, but they live forever.
Mortal man eats, drinks, propagates his kind and dies. If, now, I am of the heavenly beings,
let me live forever. But if I belong to mortal mankind, let me do my part in establishing the
race." (10)

Eli the high priest, who at first misinterpreted Hannah's long prayer, dismissed her with the
blessing: "May the son to be born unto thee acquire great knowledge in the law." (11) Hannah
left the sanctuary, and at once her grief-furrowed countenance changes. She felt beyond a doubt
that the blessing of Eli would be fulfilled. (12)

 THE YOUTH OF SAMUEL

Hannah's prayer was heard. At the end of six months and a few days (13) Samuel was born to
her, in the nineteenth year of her married life, (14) and the one hundred and thirtieth of
her age. (15) Samuel was of a frail constitution, (16) and required tender care and nurture.
For this reason he and his mother could not accompany Elkanah on his pilgrimages. Hannah withheld
her boy from the sanctuary for some years. Before Samuel's birth a voice from heaven had proclaimed
that in a short time a great man would be born, whose name would be Samuel. All men children
of that time were accordingly named Samuel. As they grew up, the mothers were in the habit
of getting together and telling of their children's doings, in order to determine which of
them satisfied the expectations the prophecy had aroused. When the true Samuel was born, and
by his wonderful deed excelled all his companions, it became plain to whom the word of God
applied. (17) His preeminence now being undisputed, Hannah was willing to part with him.

The following incident is an illustration of Samuel's unusual qualities manifested even in
infancy. He was two years old when his mother brought him to Shiloh to leave him there permanently.
An occasion at once presented itself for the display of his learning and acumen, which were
so great as to arouse the astonishment of the high priest Eli himself. On entering the sanctuary
Samuel noticed that they were seeking a priest to kill the sacrificial animal. Samuel instructed
the attendants that a non-priest was permitted to kill the sacrifice. The high priest Eli appeared
at the moment when, by Samuel's directions, the sacrifice was being killed by a non-priest.
Angered by the child's boldness, he was about to have him executed, regardless of Hannah's
prayer for his life. "Let him die," (18) he said, "I shall pray for another in his place."
Hannah replied: "I lent him to the Lord. Whatever betide, he belongs neither to thee nor to
me, but to God." (19) Only then, after Samuel's life was secure, Hannah offered up her prayer
of thanksgiving. Beside the expression of her gratitude, it contains also many prophecies regarding
Samuel's future achievements, and it recited the history of Israel from the beginning until
the advent of Messiah. (20) Her prayer incidentally brought relief to the Sons of Korah. Since
the earth had swallowed them, they had been constantly sinking lower and lower. When Hannah
uttered the words, "God bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up," (21) they came to a standstill
in their downward course.

Hannah was spared to witness, not only the greatness of her son, but also the undoing of her
rival. Every time Hannah bore a child, Peninnah lost two of hers, until eight of her ten children
had died, and she would have had to surrender all, had not Hannah interceded for her with prayer.
(22)

 ELI AND HIS SONS

Shortly (23) before Samuel entered upon his novitiate in the sanctuary, Eli succeeded to the
three highest offices in the land: he was made high priest, president of the Sanhedrin, and
ruler over the political affairs of Israel. Eli was a pious man, and devoted to the study of
the Torah, wherefore he attained to a good old age and to high honors. (24) In his office as
high priest he was successor to no less a personage than Phinehas, who had lost his high-priestly
dignity on account of his haughty bearing toward Jephthah. With Eli the line of Ithamar rose
to power instead of the line of Eleazar. (25) However, the iniquitous deed of his two sons
brought dire misfortune upon Eli and upon his family, though the Scriptural account of their
conduct may not be taken literally. The sons of Eli transgressed only in that they sometimes
kept the women waiting who came to the sanctuary to bring the purification offerings, and so
they retarded their return to their families. (26) This was bad enough for priest of God. Their
misdeeds recoiled upon their father, who was not strict enough in rebuking them. Eli's punishment
was that he aged prematurely, and, besides, he had to give up his various offices.

During his lifetime, his youngest son Phinehas, the worthier of the two, (27) officiated as
high priest. The only reproach to which Phinehas laid himself open was that he made no attempt
to mend his brother's ways.

The worst of God's decree against Eli he learned from Elkanah, (28) the man of God who came
unto Eli, and who announced that the high-priestly dignity would be wrested from his house,
and once more conferred upon the family of Eleazar, and, furthermore, his descendant would
all die in their prime. The latter doom can be averted by good deeds, devotion in prayer, and
zealous study of the Torah. These means were often employed successfully. (29) But against
the loss of the high priest's office there is no specific. The house of Eli forfeited it irrevocably.
Abiathar, the great-grandson of Eli's son Phinehas, (30) the last of the high priest of the
line of Ithamar, had to submit to the fate of seeing David transfer his dignity to Zadok, in
whose family it remained forever.

The sons of Eli brought misfortune also upon the whole of Israel. To their sins and the ease
with which the people condoned them was attributed the unhappy issue of the war with the Philistines.
The holy Ark, the receptacle for the broken table of the law, which accompanied the people
to the camp, (31) did not have the expected effect of compelling victory for the Israelites.
What Eli feared happened. He enjoined upon his sons not to appear before him if they should
survive the capture of the Ark. (32) But they did not survive it; they died upon the battlefield
on which their nation had suffered bitter defeat. The Philistines, to be sure, had to pay dearly
for their victory, especially those who had spoken contemptuous words when the holy Ark had
appeared in the Israelitish camp: "The God of the Israelites had ten plagues, and those he
expended upon the Egyptians. He no longer has it in His power to do harm." But God said: "Do
ye but wait to see. I shall bring plague down upon you like of which hath never been." (33)
This new plague consisted in mice crawling forth out of the earth, and jerking the entrails
out of the bodies of the Philistines while they eased nature. If the Philistines sought to
protect themselves by using brass vessels, the vessels burst at the touch of the mice, and,
as before, the Philistines were at their mercy. (34) After some months of suffering, when they
realized that their god Dagon was the victim instead of the victor, they resolved to send the
Ark back to the Israelites. Many of the Philistines, (35) however, were not yet convinced of
God's power. The experiment with the milch kine on which there had come no yoke was to establish
the matter for them. The result was conclusive. Scarcely had the cows begun to draw the cart
containing the Ark when they raised their voices in song:

Arise thou, O Acacia! Soar aloft in the fulness of thy splendor,

Thou who art adorned with gold embroidery,

Thou who art reverenced within the Holiest of the palace,

Thou who art covered by the two Cherubim! (36)

When the holy Ark was thus brought into the Israelitish domain, there was exceeding great rejoicing.
Yet the people were lacking in due reverence. They unloaded the holy vessel while doing their
usual work. God punished them severely. (37) The seventy members of the Sanhedrin perished,
and with them fifty thousand of the people. (38) The punishment was meet for another reason.
At first sight of the Ark some of the people had exclaimed: "Who vexed these that thou didst
feel offended, and what had mollified thee now?" (39)

 THE ACTIVITIES OF SAMUEL

In the midst of the defeats and other calamities that overwhelmed the Israelites, Samuel's
authority grew, and the respect for him increased, until he was acknowledged the helper of
his people. His first efforts were directed toward counteracting the spiritual decay in Israel.
When he assembled the people at Mizpah for prayer, he sought to distinguish between the faithful
and the idolatrous, in order to mete out punishment to the disloyal. He had all the people
drink water, whose effect was to prevent idolaters from opening their lips. (40) The majority
of the people repented of their sins, and Samuel turned to God in their behalf: "Lord of the
world! Thou requirest naught of man but that he should repent of his sins. Israel is penitent,
do Thou pardon him." (41) The prayer was granted, and when, after his sacrifice, Samuel led
an attack upon the Philistines, victory was not withheld from the Israelites. God terrified
the enemy first by an earthquake, and then by thunder and lightning. Many were scattered and
wandered about aimlessly; many were precipitated into the rents torn in the earth, the rest
had their faces scorched, and in their terror and pain their weapons dropped from their hands. (42)

In peace as in war Samuel was the type of a disinterested, incorruptible judge, who even refused
compensation for the time, trouble, and pecuniary sacrifices entailed upon him by his office.
(43) His sons fell far short of resembling their father in these respects. Instead of continuing
Samuel's plan of journeying from place to place to dispense judgment, they had the people come
to them, and they surrounded themselves with a crew of officials who preyed upon the people
for their maintenance. (44) In a sense, therefore, the curse with which Eli threatened Samuel
in his youth was accomplished: both he and Samuel had sons unworthy of their fathers. (45)
Samuel at least had the satisfaction of seeing his sons mend their ways. One of them is the
prophet Joel, whose prophecy forms a book of the Bible. (46)

Though, according to this account, the sons of Samuel were by no means so iniquitous as might
be inferred from the severe expressions of the Scripture, still the demand for a king made
by the leaders of the people was not unwarranted. All they desired was a king in the place
of a judge. What enkindled the wrath of God and caused Samuel vexation, was the way in which
the common people formulated the demand. "We want a king," they said, "that we may be like
the other nations." (47)

 THE REIGN OF SAUL

There were several reasons for the choice of Saul as king. He had distinguished himself as
a military hero in the unfortunate engagement of the Philistines with Israel under the leadership
of the sons of Eli. Goliath captured the tables of the law. When Saul heard of this in Shiloh,
he marched sixty miles to the camp, wrested the tables from the giant, and returned to Shiloh
on the same day, bringing Eli the report of the Israelitish misfortune. (48) Besides, Saul
possessed unusual beauty, (49) which explains why the maidens whom he asked about the seer
in their city sought to engage him in a lengthy conversation. (50) At the same time he was
exceedingly modest. When he and his servant failed to find the asses they were looking for,
he said, "My father will take thought of us," putting his servants on a level with himself,
(51) and when he was anointed king, he refused to accept the royal dignity until the Urim and
Thummin were consulted. (52) His chief virtue, however, was his innocence. He was as free from
sin as "a one year old child." (53) No wonder, then, he was held worthy of the prophetic gift.
The prophecies he uttered concerned themselves with the war of Gog and Magog, the meting out
of reward and punishment at the last judgment. (54) Finally, his choice as king was due also
to the merits of his ancestors, especially his grandfather Abiel, a man interested in the public
welfare, who would have the streets lighted so that people might go to the houses of study
after dark. (55)

Saul's first act as king was his successful attack upon Nahash, king of the Ammonites, who
had ordered the Gileadites to remove the injunction from the Torah barring the Ammonites from
the congregation of Israel. (56) In his next undertaking, the campaign against the Philistines,
he displayed his piety. His son Jonathan had fallen under the severe ban pronounced by Saul
against all who tasted food on a certain day, and Saul did not hesitate to deliver him up to
death. Jonathan's trespass was made know by the stones in the breastplate of the high priest.
All the stones were bright, only the one bearing the name Benjamin had lost its brilliancy.
By lot it was determined that its dimmed lustre was due to the Benjamite Jonathan. Saul desisted
from his purpose of executing Jonathan only when it appeared that he had transgressed his father's
command by mistake. A burnt offering and his weight in gold paid to the sanctuary were considered
an atonement for him. (57) In the same war Saul had occasion to show his zeal for the scrupulous
observance of the sacrificial ordinances. He reproached his warriors with eating the meat of
the sacrifices before the blood was sprinkled on the altar, (58) and he made it his task to
see to it that the slaughtering knife was kept in the prescribed condition. As recompense,
an angel brought him a sword, there being none beside Saul in the whole army to bear one. (59)

Saul manifested a different spirit in the next campaign, the war with the Amalekites, whom,
at the bidding of God, he was to exterminate. When the message of God's displeasure was conveyed
to Saul by the prophet Samuel, he said: "If the Torah ordains that a heifer of the herd shall
be beheaded in the valley as an atonement for the death of a single man, how great must be
the atonement required for the slaughter of so many men? And granted they are sinners, what
wrong have their cattle done to deserve annihilation? And granted that the adults are worthy
of their fate, what have the children done?" Then a voice proclaimed from heaven, "Be not overjust."
Later on, when Saul commissioned Doeg to cut down the priests at Nob, the same voice was heard
to say, "Be not overwicked." (60) It was this very Doeg, destined to play so baleful a part
in his life, who induced Saul to spare Agag, the king of Amalekites. His argument was the law
prohibits the slaying of an animal and its young on the same day. How much less permissible
is it to destroy at one time old and young, men and children. (61) As Saul had undertaken the
war of extermination against Amalek only because forced into it, he was easily persuaded to
let the people keep a part of the cattle alive. As far as he himself was concerned, he could
have had no personal interest in the booty, for he was so affluent that he took a census of
the army by giving a sheep to every one of his soldiers, distributing not less than two hundred
thousand sheep. (62)

Compared with David's sins, Saul's were not sufficiently grievous to account for the withdrawal
of the royal dignity from him and his family. The real reason was Saul's too great mildness,
a drawback in a ruler. Moreover, his family was of such immaculate nobility that his descendants
might have become too haughty. (63) When Saul disregarded the Divine command about the Amalekites,
Samuel announced to him that his office would be bestowed upon another. The name of his successor
was not mentioned on that occasion, but Samuel gave him a sign by which to recognize the future
king: he who would cut off the corner of Saul's mantle, would reign in his stead. Later on,
when David met Saul in the cave and cut off a piece of the king's skirt, Saul knew him for
a certainty to be his destined successor. (64)

So Saul lost his crown on account of Agag, and yet did not accomplish his purpose of saving
the life of the Amalekite king, for Samuel inflicted a most cruel death upon Agag, and that
not in accordance with Jewish, but with heathen, forms of justice. No witnesses of Agag's crime
could be summoned before the court, nor could it be proved that Agag, as the law requires,
had been warned when about to commit the crime. (65) Though due punishment was meted out to
Agag, in a sense it came too late. Had he been killed by Saul in the course of the battle,
the Jews would have been spared the persecution devised by Haman, for, in the short span of
time that elapsed between war and his execution, Agag became the ancestor of Haman. (66)

The Amalekite war was the last of Saul's notable achievements. Shortly afterward he was seized
by the evil spirit, and the rest of his days were passed mainly in persecuting David and his
followers. Saul would have died immediately after the Amalekite war, if Samuel had not interceded
for him. The prophet prayed to God that the life of the disobedient king be spared, at least
so long as his own years had not come to their destined close: "Thou regardest me equal to
Moses and Aaron. (67) As Moses and Aaron did not have their handiwork destroyed before their
eyes during their life, so may my handiwork not cease during my life." God said: "What shall
I do? Samuel will not let me put an end to Saul's days, and if I let Samuel die in his prime,
people will speak ill of him (68) Meanwhile David's time is approaching, and one reign may
not overlap the time assigned to another by his hairbreadth." God determined to let Samuel
age suddenly, and when he died at fifty-two, (69) the people were under the impression the
days of an old man had come to an end. So long as he lived, Saul was secure. (70) Scarcely
was he dead, when the Philistines began to menace the Israelites and their king. Soon it appeared
how well justified had been the mourning services for the departed prophet in all the Israelitish
towns. (71) It was not remarkable that the mourning for Samuel should have been universal.
During his active administration as judge, he had been in the habit of journeying through every
part of the country, and so he was known personally to all the people. This practice of his
testifies not only to the zeal with which he devoted himself to his office, but also to his
wealth, for the expenses entailed by these journeys were defrayed from his own purse. Only
one person in all the land took no part in the demonstrations of grief. During the very week
of mourning Nabal held feasts. "What!" God exclaimed, "all weep and lament over the death of
the pious, and this reprobate engages in revelry!" Punishment was not withheld. Three days
after the week of mourning for Samuel Nabal dies. (72)

There was none that felt the death of Samuel more keenly than Saul. Left alone and isolated,
he did not shrink from extreme measures to enter into communication with the departed prophet.
With his two adjutants, (73) Abner and Amasa, he betook himself to Abner's mother, the witch
of En-dor. (74) The king did not reveal his identity, but the witch had no difficulty in recognizing
her visitor. In necromancy the peculiar rule holds good that, unless it is summoned by a king,
a spirit raised from the dead appears head downward and feet in the air. (75) Accordingly,
when the figure of Samuel stood upright before them, the witch knew that the king was with
her. Though the witch saw Samuel, she could not hear what he said, while Saul heard his words,
but could not see his person   another peculiar phenomenon in necromancy: the conjuror sees
the spirit, and he for whom the spirit had been raised only hears it. Any other person present
neither sees nor hears it.

The witch's excitement grew when she perceived a number of spirits arise by the side of Samuel.
The dead prophet, when he was summoned back to earth, thought that the judgement day had arrived.
He requested Moses to accompany him and testify to his always having executed the ordinances
of the Torah as Moses had established them. With these two great leaders a number of the pious
arose, all believing that the day of judgment was at hand. Samuel was apparelled in the "upper
garment" his mother had made for him when she surrendered him to the sanctuary. This he had
worn throughout his life, and in it he was buried. At the resurrection all the dead wear their
grave clothes, and so it came about that Samuel stood before Saul in his well-known "upper
garment."

Only fragments of the conversation between Samuel and Saul have been preserved in the Scriptures.
Samuel reproached Saul with having disturbed him. "Was it not enough," he said, "for thee to
enkindle the wrath of thy Creator by calling up the spirits of the dead, must thou need change
me into an idol? For is it not said that like unto the worshippers so shall the worshipped
be punished?" Samuel then consented to tell the king God's decree, that he had resolved to
rend the kingdom out of his hand, and invest David with the royal dignity. Whereupon Saul:
"These are not the words thou spakest to me before." (76) "When we dwelt together," rejoined
Samuel, "I was in the world of lies. Now I abide in the world of truth, and thou heardest lying
words from me, for I feared thy wrath and thy revenge. Now I abide in the world of truth, and
thou hearest words of truth from me. As to the thing the Lord hath done unto thee, thou hast
deserved it, for thou didst not obey the voice of the Lord, nor execute his fierce wrath upon
Amalek." Saul asked: "Can I still save myself by flight?" "Yes," replied Samuel, "if thou fleest,
thou art safe. But if thou acceptest God's judgment, by to-morrow thou wilt be united with
me in Paradise."

When Abner and Amasa questioned Saul about his interview with Samuel, he replied: "Samuel told
me I should go into battle to-morrow, and come forth victorious. More than that, my sons will
be given exalted positions in return for their military prowess." The next day his three sons
went with him to the war, and all were stricken down. God summoned the angels and said to them:
"Behold the being I have created in my world. A father as a rule refrains from taking his sons
even to a banquet, lest he expose them to the evil eye. Saul goes to war knowing that he will
lose his life, yet he takes his sons with him, and cheerfully accepts the punishment I ordain."
(77)

So perished the first Jewish king, as a hero and a saint. His latter days were occupied with
regrets on account of the execution of the priest of Nob, (78) and his remorse secured pardon
for him. (79) Indeed, in all respects his piety was so great that not even David was his equal:
David had many wives and concubines; Saul had but on wife. David remained behind, fearing to
lose his life in battle with his son Absalom; Saul went into the combat knowing he should not
return alive. Mild and generous, Saul led the life of a saint in his own house, observing even
the priestly laws of purity. Therefore God reproached David with having pronounced a curse
upon Saul in his prayer. (80) Also, David in his old age was punished for having cut off the
corner of Saul's mantle, for no amount of clothing would keep him warm. (81) Finally, when
a great famine fell upon the land during the reign of David, God told him it had been inflicted
upon him because Saul's remains had not been buried with the honor due to him, and at that
moment a heavenly voice resounded calling Saul "the elect of God." (82)

 THE COURT OF SAUL

The most important figure at the court of Saul was his cousin Abner, the son of the witch of
En-dor. (83) He was a giant of extraordinary size. A wall measuring six ells in thickness could
be moved more easily than one of Abner's feet. (84) David once chanced to get between the feet
of Abner as he lay asleep, and he was almost crushed to death, when fortunately Abner moved
them, and David made his escape. (85) Conscious of his vast strength he once cried out: "If
only I could seize the earth at some point, I should be able to shake it." Even in the hour
of death, wounded mortally by Joab, he grasped his murderer like a worsted ball. He was about
to kill him, but the people crowded round them, and said to Abner: "If thou killest Joab, we
shall be orphaned, and our wives and children will be prey to the Philistines." Abner replied:
"What can I do? He was about to extinguish my light." The people consoled him: "Commit thy
cause to the true Judge." Abner thereupon loosed his hold upon Joab, who remained unharmed,
while Abner fell dead instantly. God had decided against him. (86) The reason was that Joab
was in a measure justified in seeking to avenge the death of his brother Asahel. Asahel, the
supernaturally swift runner, (87)   so swift that he ran through a field without snapping the
ears of wheat (88)   had been the attacking party. He had sough to take Abner's life, and Abner
contended, that in killing Asahel he had but acted in self-defense. Before inflicting the fatal
wound, Joab held a formal court of justice over Abner. He asked: "Why didst thou no render
Asahel harmless by wounding him rather than kill him?" Abner replied that he could not have
done it. "What," said Joab, incredulous, "if thou wast able to strike him under the fifth rib,
dost thou mean to say thou couldst not have made him innocuous by a wound, and saved him alive?"
(89)

Although Abner was a saint, (90) even a "lion in the law," (91) he perpetrated many a deed
that made his violent death appear just. It was in his favor that he had refused to obey Saul's
command to do away with the priests of Nob. (92) Yet a man of his stamp should not have rested
content with passive resistance. He should have interposed actively, and kept Saul from executing
his blood design. And granted that Abner could not have influenced the king's mind in this
matter, (93) at all events he is censurable for having frustrated a reconciliation between
Saul and David. When David, holding in his hand the corner of the king's mantle which he had
cut off, sought to convince Saul of his innocence, it was Abner who turned the king against
the suppliant fugitive. "Concern not thyself about it," he said to Saul. "David found the rag
on a thornbush in which thou didst catch the skirt of thy mantle as thou didst pass it." (94)
On the other hand, no blame attaches to Abner for having espoused the cause of Saul's son against
David for two years and a half. He knew that God had designated David for the royal office,
but, according to an old tradition, God had promised two kings to the tribe of Benjamin, and
Abner considered it his duty to transmit his father's honor to the son of Saul the Benjamite. (95)

Another figure of importance during Saul's reign, but a man of radically different character,
was Doeg. Doeg, the friend of Saul from the days of his youth, (96) died when he was thirty-four
years old, (97) yet at that early age he had been president of the Sanhedrin and the greatest
scholar of his time. He was called Edomi, which means, not Edomite, but "he who causes the
blush of shame," because by his keen mind and his learning he put to shame all who entered
into argument with him. (98) But his scholarship lay only on his lips, his heart was not concerned
in it, and his one aim was to elicit admiration. (99) Small wonder, then, that his end was
disastrous. At the time of his death he had sunk so low that he forfeited all share in the
life to come. (100) Wounded vanity caused his hostility to David, who had got the better of
him in a learned discussion. (101) From that moment he bent all his energies to the task of
ruining David. He tried to poison Saul's mind against David, by praising the latter inordinately,
and so arousing Saul's jealousy. (102) Again, he would harp on David's Moabite descent, and
maintain that on account of it he could not be admitted into the congregation of Israel. Samuel
and other prominent men had to bring to bear all the weight of their authority to shield David
against the consequences of Doeg's sophistry. (103)

Doeg's most grievous transgression, however, was his informing against the priests of Nob,
whom he accused of high treason and executed as traitors. For all his iniquitous deeds he pressed
the law into his service, and derived justification of his conduct from it. Abimelech, the
high priest at Nob, admitted that he had consulted the Urim and Thummim for David. This served
Doeg as the basis for the charge of treason, and he stated it as an unalterable Halakah that
the Urim and Thummim may be consulted only for a king. In vain Abner and Amasa and all the
other members of the Sanhedrin demonstrated that the Urim and Thummim may be consulted for
any on whose undertaking concerns the general welfare. Doeg would not yield, and as no one
could be found to execute the judgement, he himself officiated as hangman. (104) When the motive
of revenge actuated him, he held cheap alike the life and honor of his fellow-man. He succeeded
in convincing Saul that David's marriage with the king's daughter Michal had lost its validity
from the moment David was declared a rebel. As such, he said, David was as good as dead, since
a rebel was outlawed. Hence his wife was no longer bound to him. (105) Doeg's punishment accorded
with his misdeeds. He who had made impious use of his knowledge of the law, completely forgot
the law, and even his disciples rose up against him, and drove him from the house of study.
In the end he died a leper.

Dreadful as this death was, it was not accounted an atonement for his sins. One angel burned
his soul, and another scattered his ashes in all the house of study and prayer. (106) The son
of Doeg was Saul's armor-bearer, who was killed by David for daring to slay the king even though
he longed for death. (107)

Along with Abner and Doeg, Jonathan distinguished himself in the reign of his father. His military
capacity was joined to deep scholarship. To the latter he owed his position as Ab Bet Din.
(108) Nevertheless he was one of the most modest men known in history. (109) Abinadab was another
one of Saul's sons who was worthy of his father, wherefore he was sometimes called Ishvi. (110)
As for Saul's grandson Mephibosheth. He, too, was reputed a great man. David himself did not
scorn to sit at his feet, and he revered Mephibosheth as his teacher. (111) The wrong done
him by David in granting one-half his possessions to Ziba, the slave of Mephibosheth, did not
go unavenged. When David ordered the division of the estate of Mephibosheth, a voice from heaven
prophesied: "Jeroboam and Rehoboam shall divide the kingdom between themselves." (112)

 DAVID'S BIRTH AND DESCENT

David, the "elect of God," (1) was descended from a family which itself belonged to the elect
of Israel. Those ancestors of his who are enumerated in the Bible by name are all of them men
of distinguished excellence. Besides, David was a descendant of Miriam, (2) the sister of Moses,
and so the strain of royal aristocracy was reinforced by the priestly aristocracy. Nor was
David the first of his family to occupy the throne of a ruler. His great-grandfather Boaz was
one and the same person with Ibzan, the judge of Bethlehem. (3) Othniel, too, the first judge
in Israel after the death of Joshua, and Caleb, (4) the brother of Othniel, were connected
with David's family. As examples of piety and virtue, David had his grandfather and more particularly
his father before him. His grandfather's whole life was a continuous service of God, (5) whence
his name Obed, "the servant," and his father Jesse was one of the greatest scholars of his
time, (6) and one of the four who died wholly untainted by sin. (7) If God had not ordained
death for all the descendants of our first parents after their fall, Jesse would have continued
to live forever. As it was, he died at the age of four hundred, (8) and then a violent death,
by the hand of the Moabite king, (9) in whose care David, trusting in the ties of kinship between
the Moabites and the seed of Ruth, left his family when he was fleeing before Saul. Jesse's
piety will not go unrewarded. In the Messianic time he will be one of the eight princes to
rule over the world. (10)

In spite of his piety, Jesse was not always proof against temptation. One of his slaves caught
his fancy, and he would have entered into illicit relations with her, had his wife, Nazbat,
the daughter of Adiel, not frustrated the plan. She disguised herself as the slave, and Jesse,
deceived by the ruse, met his own wife. The child borne by Nazbat was given out as the son
of the freed slave, so that the father might not discover the deception practiced upon him.
This child was David. (11)

In a measure David was indebted for his life to Adam. At first only three hours of existence
had been allotted to him. When God caused all future generations to pass in review before Adam,
he besought God to give David seventy of the thousand years destined for him. A deed of gift,
signed by God and the angel Metatron, was drawn up. Seventy years were legally conveyed from
Adam to David, and in accordance with Adam's wishes, beauty, dominion, and poetical gift (12)
went with them.

  ANOINTED KING

Beauty and talent, Adam's gifts to David, did not shield their possessor against hardship.
As the supposed son of a slave, he was banished from association with his brothers, and his
days were passed in the desert tending his father's sheep. (13) It was his shepherd life that
prepared him for his later exalted position. With gentle consideration he led the flocks entrusted
to him. The young lambs he guided to pastures of tender grass; the patches of less juicy herbs
he reserved for the sheep; and the full-grown sturdy rams were given the tough weeds for food.
Then God said: "David knows how to tend sheep, therefore he shall be the shepherd of my flock
Israel." (14)

In the solitude of the desert David had opportunities of displaying his extraordinary physical
strength. One day he slew four lions and three bears, (15) though he had no weapons. His most
serious adventure was with the reem. David encountered the mammoth beast asleep, and taking
it for a mountain, he began to ascend it. Suddenly the reem awoke, and David found himself
high up in the air on its horns. He vowed, if he were rescued, to build a temple to God one
hundred ells in height, as high as the horns of the reem. Thereupon God sent a lion. The king
of beasts (16) inspired even the reem with awe. The reem prostrated himself, and David could
easily descend from his perch. At that moment a deer appeared. The lion pursued after him,
and David was saved from the lion as well as the reem. (17)

He continued to lead the life of a shepherd until, at the age of twenty-eight, (18) he was
anointed king by Samuel, who was taught by a special revelation that the despised youngest
son of Jesse was to be king. Samuel's first charge had been to anoint one of the sons of Jesse,
but he was not told which one. When he saw the oldest, Eliab, he thought him the king of God's
choice. God had allowed him to be deceived, in order to punish Samuel for his excessive self-consciousness
in calling himself the seer. It was thus proved to him that he could not foresee all things.
(19) However, Samuel's error was pardonable. God's first choice had rested upon Eliab. Only
on account of his violent nature, his swiftness to anger against David, the position destined
for him was transferred to his youngest brother. (20) Eliab was in a sense compensated by seeing
his daughter become the wife of Rehoboam. Thus he, too, enjoys the distinction of being among
the ancestors of the Judaic kings, and Samuel's vision of Eliab as king was not wholly false. (21)

The election of David was obvious from what happened with the holy oil with which he was anointed.
(22) When Samuel had tried to pour the oil on David's brothers, it had remained in the horn,
but at David's approach it flowed of its own accord, and poured itself out over him. The drops
on his garments changed into diamonds and pearls, and after the act of anointing him, the horn
was as full as before.

The amazement was great that the son of a slave should be made king. Then the wife of Jesse
revealed her secret, and declared herself the mother of David. (23)

The anointing of David was for a time kept a secret, but its effect appeared in the gift of
prophecy which manifested itself in David, (24) and in his extraordinary spiritual development.
His new accomplishments naturally earned envy for him. None was more bitterly jealous than
Doeg, the greatest scholar of his time. When he heard that Saul was about to have David come
to court as his attendant, Doeg began to praise David excessively, with the purpose of arousing
the king's jealousy and making David hateful in his eyes. He succeeded, (25) yet Saul did not
relinquish his plan of having David at court. David had become known to Saul in his youth,
and at that time the king had conceived great admiration for him. The occasion was one on which
David had shown cleverness as well as love of justice. A rich woman had had to leave her home
temporarily. She could not carry her fortune with her, nor did she wish to entrust it to any
one. She adopted the device of hiding her gold in honey jars, and these she deposited with
a neighbor. Accidentally he discovered what was in the jars, and he abstracted the gold. On
her return the woman received her vessels, but the gold concealed in them was gone. She had
no evidence to bring up against her faithless neighbor, and the court dismissed her complaint.
She appealed to the king, but he was equally powerless to help. When the woman came out of
the palace of the king, David was playing with his companions. Seeing her dejection, he demanded
an audience of the king, that truth might prevail. The king authorized him to do as he saw
fit. David ordered the honey jars to be broken, and two coins were found to adhere to the inner
side of the vessels. The thief had overlooked them, and they proved his dishonesty. (26)

  ENCOUNTER WITH GOLIATH

David was not long permitted to enjoy the ease of life at court. The aggressive manner assumed
by Goliath drove him to the front. It was a curious chance that designated David to be the
slayer of Goliath, who was allied with him by the ties of blood. Goliath, it will be remembered,
was the son of the Moabitess Orpah, (27) the sister-in-law of David's ancestress Ruth, and
her sister as well, both having been the daughters of the Moabite king Eglon. (28) David and
Goliath differed as widely as their grandams, for in contrast to Ruth, the pious, religious
Jewess, Orpah had led a life of unspeakable infamy. Her son Goliath was jeered at as "the son
of a hundred fathers and one mother." (29) But God lets naught go unrewarded, even in the wicked.
In return for the forty steps Orpah had accompanied her mother-in-law Naomi, (30) Goliath the
Philistine, her son, was permitted to display his strength and skill for forty days, and in
return for the four tears Orpah had shed on parting from her mother-in-law, she was privileged
to give birth to four giant sons. (31)

Of the four, Goliath was the strongest and greatest. What the Scriptures tell about him is
but a small fraction of what might have been told. The Scriptures refrain intentionally from
expatiating upon the prowess of the miscreant. Nor do they tell how Goliath, impious as he
was, dared challenge the God of Israel to combat with him, and how he tried by every means
in his power to hinder the Israelites in their Divine worship. Morning and evening he would
appear in the camp at the very time when the Israelites were preparing to say the Shema. (32)

All the more cause, then, for David to hate Goliath and determine to annihilate him. His father
encouraged him to oppose Goliath, for he considered it David's duty to protect Saul the Benjamite
against the giant, as Judah, his ancestor, had in ancient days pledged himself for the safety
of Benjamin, the ancestor of Saul. (33) For Goliath was intent upon doing away with Saul. His
grievance against him was that once, when, in a skirmish between the Philistines and the Israelites,
Goliath had succeeded in capturing the holy tables of the law, Saul had wrested them from the
giant. (34) In consequence of his malady, Saul could not venture to cross swords with Goliath,
and he accepted David's offer to enter into combat in his place. David put on Saul's armor,
and when it appeared that the armor of the powerfully-built king fitted the erstwhile slender
youth, Saul recognized that David had been predestined for the serious task he was about to
undertake, but at the same time David's miraculous transformation did not fail to arouse his
jealousy. (35) David, for this reason, declined to array himself as a warrior for his contest
with Goliath. He wanted to meet him as a simple shepherd. Five pebbles came to David of their
own accord, (36) and when he touched them, they all turned into one pebble. (37) The five pebbles
stood for God, the three Patriarchs, and Aaron. Hophni and Phinehas, the descendants of the
last, had only a short time before been killed by Goliath. (38)

Scarcely did David begin to move toward Goliath, when the giant became conscious of the magic
power of the youth. The evil eye David cast on his opponent sufficed to afflict him with leprosy,
(39) and in the very same instant he was rooted to the ground, unable to move. (40) Goliath
was so confused by his impotence that he scarcely knew what he was saying, and he uttered the
foolish threat that he would give David's flesh to the cattle of the field, as though cattle
ate flesh. One can see, David said to himself, that he is crazy, and there can be no doubt
he is doomed. (41) Sure of victory, David retorted that he would cast the carcass of the Philistine
to the fowls of the air. At the mention of fowls, Goliath raised his eyes skyward, to see whether
there were any birds about. The upward motion of his head pushed his visor slightly away from
his forehead, and in that instant the pebble aimed by David struck him on the exposed spot.
(42) An angel descended and cast him to the ground face downward, so that the mouth that had
blasphemed God might be choked with earth. He fell in such wise that the image of Dagon which
he wore on his breast touched the ground, and his head came to lie between the feet of David,
who now had no difficulty in dispatching him. (43)

Goliath was encased, from top to toe, in several suits of armor, and David did not know how
to remove them and cut off the head of the giant. At this juncture Uriah the Hittite offered
him his services, but under the condition that David secure him an Israelitish wife. David
accepted the condition, and Uriah in turn showed him how the various suits of armor were fastened
together at the heels of the giant's feet.

David's victory naturally added fuel to the fire of Saul's jealousy. Saul sent Abner, his general,
to make inquiry whether David, who, he knew, was of the tribe of Judah, belonged to the clan
of the Perez or to the clan of the Zerah. In the former case his suspicion that David was destined
for kingship would be confirmed. Doeg, David's enemy from of old, observed that David, being
the descendant of the Moabitess Ruth, did not even belong to the Jewish communion, and Saul
need entertain no fears from that quarter. A lively discussion arose between Abner and Doeg,
as to whether the law in Deuteronomy regarding Moabites affected women as well as men. Doeg,
an expert dialectician, brilliantly refuted all of Abner's arguments in favor of the admission
of Moabitish women. Samuel's authority had to be appealed to in order to establish for all
times the correctness of Abner's view. (44) Indeed, the dispute could be settled only by recourse
to threats of violence. Ithra, the father of Amasa, in Arab fashion, for which reason he was
sometimes called the Ishmaelite, threatened to hew down any one with his sword who refused
to accept Samuel's interpretation of the law, that male Moabites and male Ammonites are forever
excluded from the congregation of Israel, but not Moabite and Ammonite women. (45)

  PURSUED BY SAUL

As God stood by David in his duel with Goliath, so he stood by him in many other of his difficulties.
Often when he thought all hope lost, the arm of God suddenly succored him, and in unexpected
ways, not only bringing relief, but also conveying instruction on God's wise and just guidance
of the world.

David once said to God: "The world is entirely beautiful and good, with the one exception of
insanity. What use does the world derive from a lunatic, who runs hither and thither, tears
his clothes, and is pursued by a mob of hooting children?" "Verily, a time will come," said
God in reply, "when thou wilt supplicate me to afflict thee with madness." Now, it happened
when David, on his flight before Saul, came to Achish, the king of the Philistines, who lived
in Gath, that the brothers of Goliath formed the heathen king's body-guard, and they demanded
that their brother's murderer be executed. Achish, though a heathen, was pious, for which reason
he is called Abimelech in the Psalms, after the king of Gerar, who also was noted for piety.
He therefore sought to pacify David's enemies. He called their attention to the fact that Goliath
had been the one to challenge the Jews to combat, and it was meet, therefore, that he should
be left to bear the consequences. The brothers rejoined, if that view prevailed, then Achish
would have to give up his throne to David, for, according to the conditions of the combat,
the victor was to have dominion over the vanquished as his servants. In his distress, David
besought God to let him appear a madman in the eyes of Achish and his court. God granted his
prayer. As the wife and daughter of the Philistine king were both bereft of reason, we can
understand his exclamation: "Do I lack madmen, that ye have brought this fellow to play the
madman in my presence?" Thus it was that David was rescued. Thereupon he composed the Psalm
beginning with the words, "I will bless the Lord at all times," which includes even the time
of lunacy. (46)

On another occasion David expressed his doubt of God's wisdom in having formed such apparently
useless creatures as spiders are. They do nothing but spin a web that has no value. He was
to have striking proof that even a spider's web may serve an important purpose. On one occasion
he had taken refuge in a cave, and Saul and his attendants, in pursuit of him, were about to
enter and seek him there. But God sent a spider to weave its web across the opening, and Saul
told his men to desist from fruitless search in the cave, for the spider's web was undeniable
proof that no one had passed through its entrance. (47)

Similarly, when David became indebted to one of them for his life, he was cured of his scorn
for wasps. He had thought them good for nothing but to breed maggots. David once surprised
Saul and his attendants while they were fast asleep in their camp, and he resolved to carry
off, as proof of his magnanimity, the cruse that stood between the feet of the giant Abner,
who like the rest was sleeping. Fortunately his knees were drawn up, so that David could carry
out his intention unhindered. But as David was retiring with the cruse, Abner stretched out
his feet, and pinned David down as with two solid pillars. His life would have been forfeit,
if a wasp had not stung Abner, who mechanically, in his sleep, moved his feet, and released
David. (48)

There were still other miracles that happened to David in his flight. Once, when Saul and his
men compassed David round about, an angel appeared and summoned him home, to repulse the raid
of the Philistines upon the land. Saul gave up the pursuit of David, but only after a majority
had so decided, for some had been of the opinion that the seizure of David was quite as important
as the repulse of the Philistines. (49) Again, in his battle with the Amalekites, David enjoyed
direct intervention from above. Lightning in flashes and sheets illumined the dark night, so
enabling him to carry on the struggle. (50)

  WARS

David's first thought after ascending the throne was to wrest Jerusalem, sacred since the days
of Adam, Noah, and Abraham, from the grasp of the heathen. The plan was not easy of execution
for various reasons. The Jebusites, the possessors of Jerusalem, were the posterity of those
sons of Heth who had ceded the Cave of Machpelah to Abraham only on condition that their descendants
should never be forcibly dispossessed of their capital city Jerusalem. In perpetuation of this
agreement between Abraham and the sons of Heth, monuments of brass were erected, and when David
approached Jerusalem with hostile intent, the Jebusites pointed to Abraham's promise engraven
upon them and still plainly to be read. (51) They maintained that before David could take the
city, which they had surrounded with a high wall, he would have to destroy the monuments. Joab
devised a plan of getting into Jerusalem. He set up a tall cypress tree near the wall, bent
it downward, and standing on David's head, he grasped the very tip of the tree. When the tree
rebounded, Joab sat high above the wall, and could jump down upon it. Once in the city, he
destroyed the monuments, and possessed himself of Jerusalem. (52) For David a miracle had happened;
the wall had lowered itself before him so that he could walk into the city without difficulty.
David, however, was not desirous of using forcible means. He therefore offered the Jebusites
six hundred shekels, fifty shekels for each Israelitish tribe. The Jebusites accepted the money,
and gave David a bill of sale. (53)

Jerusalem having been acquired, David had to prepare for war with the Philistines, in which
the king gave proof at once of his heroic courage and his unshakable trust in God. The latter
quality he displayed signally in the battle that took place in the Valley of the Giants. God
had commanded David not to attack the host of the Philistines until he heard "the sound of
marching in the tops of the mulberry trees." God desired to pass judgment upon the tutelary
angels of the heathen, before surrendering the heathen themselves to the pious, (54) and the
motion of the tops of the trees was to indicate that the battle could proceed. The enemy advanced
until there were but four ells between them and the Israelites. The latter were about to throw
themselves against the Philistines, but David restrained them, saying: "God forbade me to attack
the Philistines before the tops of the trees begin to move. If we transgress God's command,
we shall certainly die. If we delay, it is probable that we shall be killed by the Philistines,
but, at least, we shall die as pious men that keep God's command. Above all, let us have confidence
in God." Scarcely had he ended his speech when the tops of the trees rustled, and David made
a successful assault upon the Philistines. Whereupon God said to the angels, who were constantly
questioning him as to why he had taken the royal dignity from Saul and given it to David: "See
the difference between Saul and David." (55)

Of David's other campaigns, the most notable is his war with Shobach the Aramean, whom he conquered
in spite of his gigantic size and strength. Shobach was very tall, as tall as a dove-cote,
and one look at him sufficed to strike terror to the heart of the beholder. (56) The Aramean
general indulged in the belief that David would treat the Syrians gently on account of the
monument, still in existence at that time, which Jacob and Laban had erected on the frontier
between Palestine and Aram as a sign of their covenant that neither they nor their descendants
should wage war with each other. But David destroyed the monument. (57) Similarly, the Philistines
had placed trust in a relic from Isaac, the bridle of a mule which the Patriarch had given
to Abimelech, the king of the Philistines, as a pledge of the covenant between Israel and his
people. David took it from them by force. (58)

However, David was as just as he was bold. Disregard of the covenants made by the Patriarchs
was far removed from his thoughts. Indeed, before departing for the wars with the Arameans
and the Philistines, he had charged the Sanhedrin to investigate carefully the claims of the
two nations. The claims of the Philistines were shown to be utterly unfounded. In no sense
were they the descendants of those Philistines who had concluded a treaty with Isaac; they
had immigrated from Cyprus at a much later date. The Arameans, on the other hand, had forfeited
their claims upon considerate treatment, because under the "Aramean" Balaam, and later again,
in the time of Othniel, under their king Cushan-rishathaim, they had attacked and made war
upon the Israelites. (59)

  AHITHOPHEL

Among David's courtiers and attendants, a prominent place is occupied by his counsellor Ahithophel,
(60) with whom the king was connected by family ties, Bath-sheba being his granddaughter. (61)
Ahithophel's wisdom was supernatural, for his counsels always coincided with the oracles rendered
by the Urim and Thummim, and great as was his wisdom, it was equalled by his scholarship. Therefore
David did not hesitate to submit himself to his instruction, (62) even though Ahithophel was
a very young man, at the time of his death not more than thirty-three years old. (63) The one
thing lacking in him was sincere piety, (64) and this it was that proved his undoing in the
end, for it induced him to take part in Absalom's rebellion against David. Thus he forfeited
even his share in the world to come. (65)

To this dire course of action he was misled by astrologic and other signs, which he interpreted
as prophecies of his own kingship, when in reality they pointed to the royal destiny of his
granddaughter Bath-sheba. (66) Possessed by his erroneous belief, he cunningly urged Absalom
to commit an unheard-of crime. Thus Absalom would profit nothing by his rebellion, for, though
he accomplished his father's ruin, he would yet be held to account and condemned to death for
his violation of family purity, and the way to the throne would be clear for Ahithophel, the
great sage in Israel. (67)

The relation between David and Ahithophel had been somewhat strained even before Absalom's
rebellion. Ahithophel's feelings had been hurt by his being passed over at the time when David,
shortly after ascending the throne, invested, on a single day, no less than ninety thousand
functionaries with positions.

On that day a remarkable incident occurred. When the Ark was to be brought up from Geba to
Jerusalem, the priests who attempted to take hold of it were raised up in the air and thrown
violently to the ground. In his despair the king turned for advice to Ahithophel, who retorted
mockingly: "Ask thy wise men whom thou hast but now installed in office." It was only when
David uttered a curse on him who knows a remedy and withholds it from the sufferer, that Ahithophel
advised that a sacrifice should be offered at every step taken by the priests. Although the
measure proved efficacious, and no further disaster occurred in connection with the Ark, yet
Ahithophel's words had been insincere. He knew the real reason of the misadventure, and concealed
it from the king. Instead of following the law of having the Ark carried on the shoulders of
priests, David had had it put on a wagon, and so incurred the wrath of God. (68)

Ahithophel's hostility toward David showed itself also on the following occasion. When David
was digging the foundations of the Temple, a shard was found at a depth of fifteen hundred
cubits. David was about to lift it, when the shard exclaimed: "Thou canst not do it." "Why
not?" asked David. "Because I rest upon the abyss." "Since when?" "Since the hour in which
the voice of God was heard to utter the words from Sinai, 'I am the Lord thy God,' causing
the earth to quake and sink into the abyss. I lie here to cover up the abyss." Nevertheless
David lifted the shard, and the waters of the abyss rose and threatened to flood the earth.
Ahithophel was standing by, and he thought to himself: "Now David will meet with his death,
and I shall be king." Just then David said: "Whoever knows how to stem the tide of waters,
and fails to do it, will one day throttle himself." (69) Thereupon Ahithophel had the Name
of God inscribed upon the shard, and the shard thrown into the abyss. The waters at once commenced
to subside, but they sank to so great a depth that David feared the earth might lose her moisture,
and he began to sing the fifteen "Songs of Ascents," to bring the waters up again. (70)

Nevertheless David's curse was realized. Ahithophel ended his days by hanging himself. His
last will contained the following three rules of conduct: (71) 1. Refrain from doing aught
against a favorite of fortune. 2. Take heed not to rise up against the royal house of David.
3. If the Feast of Pentecost falls on a sunny day, then sow wheat. (72)

Posterity has been favored with the knowledge of but a small part of Ahithophel's wisdom, and
that little through two widely different sources, through Socrates, (73) who was his disciple,
and through a fortune-book written by him. (74)

  JOAB

Joab, the warrior, was a contrast to Ahithophel in every essential. He was David's right hand.
It was said, if Joab had not been there to conduct his wars, David would not have had leisure
to devote himself to the study of the Torah. He was the model of a true Jewish hero, distinguished
at the same time for his learning, piety, and goodness. His house stood wide open for all comers,
and the campaigns which he undertook redounded invariably to the benefit of the people. They
were indebted to him for luxuries even, (75) and more than that, he took thought for the welfare
of scholars, he himself being the president of the Sanhedrin. (76)

It interested Joab to analyze the character of men and their opinions. When he heard King David's
words: "Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him," he
expressed his astonishment that the comparison should be made with the love of a father for
a child, and not with the love of a mother; mother love as a rule is considered the stronger
and the more self-sacrificing. He made up his mind to keep his eyes open, and observe whether
David's idea was borne out by facts. On one of his journeys he happened into the house of a
poor old man who had twelve children, all of whom the father supported, however meagrely, with
the toil of his own hands. Joab proposed that he sell him one of the twelve children; he would
thus be relieved of the care of one, and the selling-price could be applied to the better support
of the rest. The good father rejected the proposition brusquely. Then Joab approached the mother,
offering her a hundred gold denarii for one of the children. At first she resisted the temptation,
but finally she yielded. When the father returned in the evening, he cut the bread, as was
his wont, into fourteen pieces, for himself, his wife, and his twelve children. In allotting
the portions he missed a child, and insisted upon being told its fate. The mother confessed
what had happened during his absence. He neither ate nor drank, and next morning he set out,
firmly resolved to return the money to Joab and to slay him if he should refuse to surrender
the child. After much parleying, and after the father had threatened him with death, Joab yielded
the child to the old man, with the exclamation: "Yes, David was right when he compared God's
love for men to a father's love for his child. This poor fellow who has twelve children to
support was prepared to fight me to the death for one of them, which the mother, who calmly
stayed at home, had sold to me for a price."

Among all the heroic achievements of Joab, the most remarkable is the taking of the Amalekite
capital. For six months the flower of the Israelitish army, twelve thousand in number, under
the leadership of Joab, had been besieging the capital city of the Amalekites without result.
The soldiers made representations to their general, that it would be well for them to return
home to their wives and children. Joab urged that this not only would earn for them contempt
and derision, but also would invite new danger. The heathen would be encouraged to unite against
the Israelites. He proposed that they hurl him into the city by means of a sling, and then
wait forty days. If at the end of this period they saw blood flow from the gates of the fortress,
it should be a sign to them that he was still alive.

His plan was executed. Joab took with him one thousand pieces of money and his sword. When
he was cast from the sling, he fell into the courtyard of a widow, whose daughter caught him
up. In a little while he regained consciousness. He pretended to be an Amalekite taken prisoner
by the Israelites, and thrown into the city by his captors, who thus wished to inflict death.
As he was provided with money, which he dispensed lavishly among his entertainers, he was received
kindly, and was given the Amalekite garb. So apparelled, he ventured, after ten days, on a
tour of inspection through the city, which he found to be of enormous size.

His first errand was to an armorer, to have him mend his sword, which had been broken by his
fall. When the artisan scanned Joab's weapon, he started back--he had never seen a sword like
it. He forged a new one, which snapped in two almost at once when Joab grasped it firmly. So
it happened with a second sword, and with a third. Finally he succeeded in fashioning one that
was acceptable. Joab asked the smith whom he would like him to slay with the sword, and the
reply was, "Joab, the general of the Israelitish king." "I am he," said Joab, and when the
smith in astonishment turned to look at him, Joab ran him through so skillfully that the victim
had no realization of what was happening. Thereupon he hewed down five hundred Amalekite warriors
whom he met on his way, and not one escaped to betray him. The rumor arose that Asmodeus, the
king of demons, was raging among the inhabitants of the city, and slaying them in large numbers.

After another period of ten days, which he spent in retirement with his hosts, Joab sallied
forth a second time, and caused such bloodshed among the Amalekites that his gory weapon clave
to his hand, and his right hand lost all power of independent motion, it could be made to move
only in a piece with his arm. He hastened to his lodging place to apply hot water to his hand
and free it from the sword. On his way thither the woman who had caught him up when he fell
into the city called to him: "Thou eatest and drinkest with us, yet thou slayest our warriors."
Seeing himself betrayed, he could not but kill the woman. Scarcely had his sword touched her,
when it was separated from his hand, and his hand could move freely, for the dead woman had
been with child, and the blood of the unborn babe loosed the sword.

After Joab had slain thousands, the Israelites without, at the very moment when they were beginning
to mourn their general as dead, saw blood issue from the city, and joyfully they cried out
with one accord: "Hear, O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is One." Joab mounted a high
tower, and in stentorian tones shouted: "The Lord will not forsake his people." Inspired with
high and daring courage, the Israelites demanded permission to assault the city and capture
it. As Joab turned to descend from the tower, he noticed that six verses of a Psalm were inscribed
on his foot, the first verse running thus: "The Lord answers thee in the day of trouble, the
name of the God of Jacob is thy defense." Later David added three verses and completed the
Psalm. Thereupon the Israelites took the Amalekite capital, destroyed the heathen temples in
the city, and slew all its inhabitants, except the king, whom, with his crown of pure gold
on his head, they brought before David. (77)

  DAVID'S PIETY AND HIS SIN

Neither his great achievements in war nor his remarkable good fortune moved David from his
pious ways, or in aught changed his mode of life. Even after he became king he sat at the feet
of his teachers, Ira the Jairite (78) and Mephibosheth. To the latter he always submitted his
decisions on religious questions, to make sure that they were in accordance with law. (79)
Whatever leisure time his royal duties afforded him, he spent in study and prayer. He contented
himself with "sixty breaths" of sleep. (80) At midnight the strings of his harp, (81) which
were made of the gut of the ram sacrificed by Abraham on Mount Moriah, (82) began to vibrate.
The sound they emitted awakened David, and he would arise at once to devote himself to the
study of the Torah. (83)

Besides study, the composition of psalms naturally claimed a goodly portion of his time. Pride
filled his heart when he had completed the Psalter, and he exclaimed: "O Lord of the world,
is there another creature in the universe who like me proclaims thy praise?" A frog came up
to the king, and said: "Be not so proud; I have composed more psalms than thou, and, besides,
every psalm my mouth has uttered I have accompanied with three thousand parables." (84) And,
truly, if David indulged in conceit, it was only for a moment. As a rule he was the exemplar
of modesty. The coins which were stamped by him bore a shepherd's crook and pouch on the obverse,
and on the reverse the Tower of David. (85) In other respects, too, his bearing was humble,
as though he were still the shepherd and not the king. (86)

His great piety invested his prayer with such efficacy that he could bring things in heaven
down to earth. (87) It is natural that so godly a king should have used the first respite granted
by his wars to carry out his design of erecting a house of worship to God. But in the very
night in which David conceived the plan of building the Temple, God said to Nathan the prophet:
"Hasten to David. I know him to be a man with whom execution follows fast upon the heels of
thought, and I should not like him to hire laborers for the Temple work, and then, disappointed,
complain of me. I furthermore know him to be a man who obligates himself by vows to do good
deeds, and I desire to spare him the embarrassment of having to apply to the Sanhedrin for
absolution from his vow." (88)

When David heard Nathan's message for him, he began to tremble, and he said: "Ah, verily, God
hath found me unworthy to erect His sanctuary." But God replied with these words: "Nay, the
blood shed by thee I consider as sacrificial blood, but I do not care to have thee build the
Temple, because then it would be eternal and indestructible." "But that would be excellent,"
said David. Whereupon the reply was vouchsafed him: "I foresee that Israel will commit sins.
I shall wreak My wrath upon the Temple, and Israel will be saved from annihilation. However,
thy good intentions shall receive their due reward. The Temple, though it be built by Solomon,
shall be called thine." (89)

David's thinking and planning were wholly given to what is good and noble. He is one of the
few pious men over whom the evil inclination had no power. (90) By nature he was not disposed
to commit such evil-doing as his relation to Bath-sheba involved. God Himself brought him to
his crime, that He might say to other sinners: "Go to David and learn how to repent." (91)
Nor, indeed, may David be charged with gross murder and adultery. There were extenuating circumstances.
In those days it was customary for warriors to give their wives bills of divorce, which were
to have validity only if the soldier husbands did not return at the end of the campaign. Uriah
having fallen in battle, Bath-sheba was a regularly divorced woman. As for the death of her
husband, it cannot be laid entirely at David's door, for Uriah had incurred the death penalty
by his refusal to take his ease in his own house, according to the king's bidding. (92) Moreover,
from the first, Bath-sheba had been destined by God for David, but by way of punishment for
having lightly promised Uriah the Hittite an Israelitish woman to wife, in return for his aid
in unfastening the armor of the prostrate Goliath, the king had to undergo bitter trials before
he won her. (93)

Furthermore, the Bath-sheba episode was a punishment for David's excessive self-consciousness.
He had fairly besought God to lead him into temptation, that he might give proof of his constancy.
The answer came: "Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob were tried by me, but thou hast not yet been proved."
David entreated: "Then examine me, O Lord, and try me." And God said: "I shall prove thee,
and I shall even grant thee what I did not grant the Patriarchs. I shall tell thee beforehand
that thou wilt fall into temptation through a woman."

Once Satan appeared to him in the shape of a bird. David threw a dart at him. Instead of striking
Satan, it glanced off and broke a wicker screen which hid Bath-sheba combing her hair. The
sight of her aroused passion in the king. (94) David realized his transgression, and for twenty-two
years he was a penitent. Daily he wept a whole hour and ate his "bread with ashes." (95) But
he had to undergo still heavier penance. For a half-year he suffered with leprosy, and even
the Sanhedrin, which usually was in close personal attendance upon him, had to leave him. He
lived not only in physical, but also in spiritual isolation, for the Shekinah departed from
him during that time. (96)

  ABSALOM'S REBELLION

Of all the punishments, however, inflicted upon David, none was so severe as the rebellion
of his own son.

Absalom was of such gigantic proportions that a man who was himself of extraordinary size,
standing in the eye-socket of his skull, sank in down to his nose. (97) As for his marvellous
hair, the account of it in the Bible does not convey a notion of its abundance. Absalom had
taken the vow of a Nazarite. As his vow was for life, and because the growth of his hair was
particularly heavy, the law permitted him to clip it slightly every week. (98) It was of this
small quantity that the weight amounted to two hundred shekels.

Absalom arranged for his audacious rebellion with great cunning. He secured a letter from his
royal father empowering him to select two elders for his suite in every town he visited. With
this document he travelled through the whole of Palestine. In each town he went to the two
most distinguished men, and invited them to accompany him, at the same time showing them what
his father had written, and assuring them that they had been chosen by him because he had a
particular affection for them. So he succeeded in gathering the presidents of two hundred courts
about him. This having been accomplished, he arranged a large banquet, at which he seated one
of his emissaries between every two of his guests, for the purpose of winning them over to
his cause. The plan did not succeed wholly, for, though the elders of the towns stood by Absalom,
in their hearts they hoped for David's victory. (99)

The knowledge that a part of Absalom's following sided with him in secret,--that, though he
was pursued by his son, his friends remained true to him,--somewhat consoled David in his distress.
He thought that in these circumstances, if the worst came to the worst, Absalom would at least
feel pity for him. (100) At first, however, the despair of David knew no bounds. He was on
the point of worshipping an idol, when his friend Hushai the Archite approached him, saying:
"The people will wonder that such a king should serve idols." David replied: "Should a king
such as I am be killed by his own son? It is better for me to serve idols than that God should
be held responsible for my misfortune, and His Name thus be desecrated." Hushai reproached
him: "Why didst thou marry a captive?" "There is no wrong in that," replied David, "it is permitted
according to the law." Thereupon Hushai: "But thou didst disregard the connection between the
passage permitting it and the one that follows almost immediately after it in the Scriptures,
dealing with the disobedient and rebellious son, the natural issue of such a marriage." (101)

Hushai was not the only faithful friend and adherent David had. Some came to his rescue unexpectedly,
as, for instance, Shobi, the son of Nahash, who is identical with the Ammonite king Hanun,
the enemy of David at first, and later his ally. (102) Barzillai, another one of his friends
in need, also surprised him by his loyalty, for on the whole his moral attitude was not the
highest conceivable. (103)

Absalom's end was beset with terrors. When he was caught in the branches of the oak-tree, he
was about to sever his hair with a sword stroke, but suddenly he saw hell yawning beneath him,
and he preferred to hang in the tree to throwing himself into the abyss alive. (104) Absalom's
crime was, indeed, of a nature to deserve the supreme torture, for which reason he is one of
the few Jews who have no portion in the world to come. (105) His abode is in hell, where he
is charged with the control of ten heathen nations in the second division. Whenever the avenging
angels sit in judgment on the nations, they desire to visit punishment on Absalom, too, but
each time a heavenly voice is heard to call out: "Do not chastise him, do not burn him. He
is an Israelite, the son of My servant David." Whereupon Absalom is set upon his throne, and
is accorded the treatment due to a king. (106) That the extreme penalties of hell were thus
averted from him, was on account of David's eightfold repetition of his son's name in his lament
over him. Besides, David's intercession had the effect of re-attaching Absalom's severed head
to his body. (107)

At his death Absalom was childless, for all his children, his three sons and his daughter,
died before him, as a punishment for his having set fire to a field of grain belonging to Joab.
(108)

  DAVID'S ATONEMENT

All these sufferings did not suffice to atone for David's sin. God once said to him: "How much
longer shall this sin be hidden in thy hand and remain unatoned? On thy account the priestly
city of Nob was destroyed, (109) on thy account Doeg the Edomite was cast out of the communion
of the pious, and on thy account Saul and his three sons were slain. What dost thou desire
now--that thy house should perish, or that thou thyself shouldst be delivered into the hands
of thine enemies?" David chose the latter doom.

It happened one day when he was hunting, Satan, in the guise of a deer, enticed him further
and further, into the very territory of the Philistines, where he was recognized by Ishbi the
giant, the brother of Goliath, his adversary. Desirous of avenging his brother, he seized David,
and cast him into a winepress, where the king would have suffered a torturous end, if by a
miracle the earth beneath him had not begun to sink, and so saved him from instantaneous death.
His plight, however, remained desperate, and it required a second miracle to rescue him.

In that hour Abishai, the cousin of David, was preparing for the advent of the Sabbath, for
the king's misfortune happened on Friday as the Sabbath was about to come in. When Abishai
poured out water to wash himself, he suddenly caught sight of drops of blood in it. Then he
was startled by a dove that came to him plucking out her plumes, and moaning and wailing. Abishai
exclaimed: "The dove is the symbol of the people of Israel. It cannot be but that David, the
king of Israel, is in distress." Not finding the king at home, he was confirmed in his fears,
and he determined to go on a search for David on the swiftest animal at his command, the king's
own saddle-beast. But first he had to obtain the permission of the sages to mount the animal
ridden by the king, for the law forbids a subject to avail himself of things set aside for
the personal use of a king. Only the impending danger could justify the exception made in this
case.

Scarcely had Abishai mounted the king's animal, when he found himself in the land of the Philistines,
for the earth had contracted miraculously. He met Orpah, the mother of the four giant sons.
She was about to kill him, but he anticipated the blow and slew her. Ishbi, seeing that he
now had two opponents, stuck his lance into the ground, and hurled David up in the air, in
the expectation that when he fell he would be transfixed by the lance. At that moment Abishai
appeared, and by pronouncing the Name of God he kept David suspended 'twixt heaven and earth.

Abishai questioned David how such evil plight had overtaken him, and David told him of his
conversation with God, and how he himself had chosen to fall into the hands of the enemy, rather
than permit the ruin of his house. Abishai replied: "Reverse thy prayer, plead for thyself,
and not for thy descendants. Let thy children sell wax, and do thou not afflict thyself about
their destiny." The two men joined their prayers, and pleaded with God to avert David's threatening
doom. Abishai again uttered the Name of God, and David dropped to earth uninjured. Now both
of them ran away swiftly, pursued by Ishbi. When the giant heard of his mother's death, his
strength forsook him, and he was slain by David and Abishai. (110)

  VISITATIONS

Among the sorrows of David are the visitations that came upon Palestine during his reign, and
he felt them all the more as he had incurred them through his own fault. There was first the
famine, which was so desolating that it is counted among the ten severest that are to happen
from the time of Adam to the time of the Messiah. (111) During the first year that it prevailed,
David had an investigation set on foot to discover whether idolatry was practiced in the land,
and was keeping back the rain. His suspicion proved groundless. The second year he looked into
the moral conditions of his realm, for lewdness can bring about the same punishment as idolatry.
Again he was proved wrong. The third year, he turned his attention to the administration of
charity. Perhaps the people had incurred guilt in this respect, for abuses in this department
also were visited with the punishment of famine. (112) Again his search was fruitless, and
he turned to God to inquire of Him the cause of the public distress. God's reply was: "Was
not Saul a king anointed with holy oil, did he not abolish idolatry, is he not the companion
of Samuel in Paradise? Yet, while you all dwell in the land of Israel, he is 'outside of the
land.'" David, accompanied by the scholars and the nobles of his kingdom, at once repaired
to Jabesh-gilead, disinterred the remains of Saul and Jonathan, and in solemn procession bore
them through the whole land of Israel to the inheritance of the tribe of Benjamin. There they
were buried. The tributes of affection paid by the people of Israel to its dead king aroused
the compassion of God, and the famine came to an end. (113)

The sin against Saul was now absolved, but there still remained Saul's own guilt in his dealings
with the Gibeonites, who charged him with having killed seven of their number. David asked
God why He had punished His people on account of proselytes. God's answer to him was: "If thou
dost not bring near them that are far off, thou wilt remove them that are near by." To satisfy
their vengeful feelings, the Gibeonites demanded the life of seven members of Saul's family.
David sought to mollify them, representing to them that they would derive no benefit from the
death of their victims, and offering them silver and gold instead. But though David treated
with each one of them individually, the Gibeonites were relentless. When he realized their
hardness of heart, he cried out: "Three qualities God gave unto Israel; they are compassionate,
chaste, and gracious in the service of their fellow-men. The first of these qualities the Gibeonites
do not possess, and therefore they must be excluded from communion with Israel." (114)

The seven descendants of Saul to be surrendered to the Gibeonites were determined by letting
all his posterity pass by the Ark of the law. Those who were arrested before it were the designated
victims. Mephibosheth would have been one of the unfortunates, had he not been permitted to
pass by unchecked in answer to the prayer of David, (115) to whom he was dear, not only as
the son of his friend Jonathan, but also as the teacher who instructed him in the Torah. (116)

The cruel fate that befell the descendants of Saul had a wholesome effect. All the heathen
who saw and heard exclaimed: "There is no God like unto the God of Israel, there is no nation
like unto the nation of Israel; the wrong inflicted upon wretched proselytes has been expiated
by the sons of kings." So great was the enthusiasm among the heathen over this manifestation
of the Jewish sense of justice that one hundred and fifty thousand of them were converted to
Judaism. (117)

As for David, his wrong in connection with the famine lay in his not having applied his private
wealth to the amelioration of the people's suffering. When David returned victorious from the
combat with Goliath, the women of Israel gave him their gold and silver ornaments. He put them
aside for use in building the Temple, and even during the three years' famine this fund was
not touched. God said: "Thou didst refrain from rescuing human beings from death, in order
to save thy money for the Temple. Verily, the Temple shall not be built by thee, but by Solomon."
(118)

David is still more blameworthy on account of the census which he took of the Israelites in
defiance of the law in the Pentateuch. When he was charged by the king with the task of numbering
the people, Joab used every effort to turn him away from his intention. But in vain. Incensed,
David said: "Either thou art king and I am the general, or I am king and thou art the general."
Joab had no choice but to obey. He selected the tribe of Gad as the first to be counted, because
he thought that the Gadites, independent and self-willed, would hinder the execution of the
royal order, and David would be forced to give up his plan of taking a census. The Gadites
disappointed the expectations of Joab, and he betook himself to the tribe of Dan, hoping that
if God's punishment descended, it would strike the idolatrous Danites. Disliking his mission
as he did, Joab spent nine months in executing it, though he might have dispatched it in a
much shorter time. Nor did he carry out the king's orders to the letter. He himself warned
the people of the census. If he saw the father of a family of five sons, he would bid him conceal
a few of them. Following the example set by Moses, he omitted the Levites from the enumeration,
likewise the tribe of Benjamin, because he entertained particularly grave apprehensions in
behalf of this greatly decimated tribe. (119) In the end, David was not informed of the actual
number obtained. Joab made two lists, intending to give the king a partial list if he found
that he had no suspicion of the ruse. (120)

The prophet Gad came to David and gave him the choice of famine, oppression by enemies, or
the plague, as the penalty for the heavy crime of popular census-taking. David was in the position
of a sick man who is asked whether he prefers to be buried next to his father or next to his
mother. The king considered: "If I choose the calamities of war, the people will say, 'He cares
little, he has his warriors to look to.' If I choose famine, they will say, 'He cares little,
he has his riches to look to.' I shall choose the plague, whose scourge strikes all alike."
(121) Although the plague raged but a very short time, (122) it claimed a large number of victims.
The most serious loss was the death of Abishai, whose piety and learning made him the counterpoise
of a host of seventy-five thousand. (123)

David raised his eyes on high, and he saw the sins of Israel heaped up from earth to heaven.
In the same moment an angel descended, and slew his four sons, the prophet Gad, and the elders
who accompanied him. David's terror at this sight, which was but increased when the angel wiped
his dripping sword on the king's garments, settled in his limbs, and from that day on they
never ceased to tremble. (124)

  THE DEATH OF DAVID

David once besought God to tell him when he would die. His petition was not granted, for God
has ordained that no man shall foreknow his end. One thing, however, was revealed to David,
that his death would occur at the age of seventy on the Sabbath day. David desired that he
might be permitted to die on Friday. This wish, too, was denied him, because God said that
He delighted more in one day passed by David in the study of the Torah, than in a thousand
holocausts offered by Solomon in the Temple. Then David petitioned that life might be vouchsafed
him until Sunday; this, too, was refused, because God said it would be an infringement of the
rights of Solomon, for one reign may not overlap by a hairbreadth the time assigned to another.
Thereafter David spent every Sabbath exclusively in the study of the Torah, in order to secure
himself against the Angel of Death, who has no power to slay a man while he is occupied with
the fulfillment of God's commandments. The Angel of Death had to resort to cunning to gain
possession of David. (125) One Sabbath day, which happened to be also the Pentecost holiday,
(126) the king was absorbed in study, when he heard a sound in the garden. He rose and descended
the stairway leading from his palace to the garden, to discover the cause of the noise. No
sooner had he set foot on the steps than they tumbled in, and David was killed. The Angel of
Death had caused the noise in order to utilize the moment when David should interrupt his study.
The king's corpse could not be moved on the Sabbath, which was painful to those with him, as
it was lying exposed to the rays of the sun. So Solomon summoned several eagles, and they stood
guard over the body, shading it with their outstretched pinions. (127)

  DAVID IN PARADISE

The death of David did not mean the end of his glory and grandeur. It merely caused a change
of scene. In the heavenly realm as on earth David ranks among the first. The crown upon his
head outshines all others, and whenever he moves out of Paradise to present himself before
God, suns, stars, angels, seraphim, and other holy beings run to meet him. In the heavenly
court-room a throne of fire of gigantic dimensions is erected for him directly opposite to
the throne of God. Seated on this throne and surrounded by the kings of the house of David
and other Israelitish kings, he intones wondrously beautiful psalms. At the end he always cites
the verse: "The Lord reigns forever and ever," to which the archangel Metatron and those with
him reply: "Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord of hosts!" This is the signal for the holy Hayyot
and heaven and earth to join in with praise. Finally the kings of the house of David sing the
verse: "And the Lord shall be king over all; in that day shall the Lord be one, and His name
one." (128)

The greatest distinction to be accorded David is reserved for the judgment day, when God will
prepare a great banquet in Paradise for all the righteous. At David's petition, God Himself
will be present at the banquet, and will sit on His throne, opposite to which David's throne
will be placed. At the end of the banquet, God will pass the wine cup over which grace is said,
to Abraham, with the words: "Pronounce the blessing over the wine, thou who art the father
of the pious of the world." Abraham will reply: "I am not worthy to pronounce the blessing,
for I am the father also of the Ishmaelites, who kindle God's wrath." God will then turn to
Isaac: "Say the blessing, for thou wert bound upon the altar as a sacrifice." "I am not worthy,"
he will reply, "for the children of my son Esau destroyed the Temple." Then to Jacob: "Do thou
speak the blessing, thou whose children were blameless." Jacob also will decline the honor
on the ground that he was married to two sisters at the same time, which later was strictly
prohibited by the Torah. God will then turn to Moses: "Say the blessing, for thou didst receive
the law and didst fulfil its precepts." Moses will answer: "I am not worthy to do it, seeing
that I was not found worthy to enter the Holy Land." God will next offer the honor to Joshua,
who both led Israel into the Holy Land, and fulfilled the commandments of the law. He, too,
will refuse to pronounce the blessing, because he was not found worthy to bring forth a son.
Finally God will turn to David with the words: "Take the cup and say the blessing, thou the
sweetest singer in Israel and Israel's king. And David will reply: 'Yes, I will pronounce the
blessing, for I am worthy of the honor.'" (129) Then God will take the Torah and read various
passages from it, and David will recite a psalm in which both the pious in Paradise and the
wicked in hell will join with a loud Amen. Thereupon God will send his angels to lead the wicked
from hell to Paradise. (130)

  THE FAMILY OF DAVID

David had six wives, including Michal, the daughter of Saul, who is called by the pet name
Eglah, "Calfkin," in the list given in the Bible narrative. (131) Michal was of entrancing
beauty, (132) and at the same time the model of a loving wife. Not only did she save David
out of the hands of her father, but also, when Saul, as her father and her king, commanded
her to marry another man, she acquiesced only apparently. She entered into a mock marriage
in order not to arouse the anger of Saul, who had annulled her union with David on grounds
which he thought legal. Michal was good as well as beautiful; she showed such extraordinary
kindness to the orphan children of her sister Merab that the Bible speaks of the five sons
of Michal "whom she bore to Adriel." Adriel, however, was her brother-in-law and not her husband,
but she had raised his children, treating them as though they were her own. (133) Michal was
no less a model of piety. Although the law exempted her, as a woman, from the duty, still she
executed the commandment of using phylacteries. (134) In spite of all these virtues, she was
severely punished by God for her scorn of David, whom she reproached with lack of dignity,
when he had in mind only to do honor to God. Long she remained childless, and at last, when
she was blessed with a child, she lost her own life in giving birth to it. (135)

But the most important among the wives of David was Abigail, in whom beauty, wisdom, and prophetical
gifts were joined. With Sarah, Rahab, and Esther, she forms the quartet of the most beautiful
women in history. She was so bewitching that passion was aroused in men by the mere thought
of her. (136) Her cleverness showed itself during her first meeting with David, when, though
anxious about the life of her husband Nabal, she still, with the utmost tranquility, put a
ritual question to him in his rage. He refused to answer it, because, he said, it was a question
to be investigated by day, not by night. Thereupon Abigail interposed, that sentence of death
likewise may be passed upon a man only during the day. Even if David's judgment were right,
the law required him to wait until daybreak to execute it upon Nabal. David's objection, that
a rebel like Nabal had no claim upon due process of law, she overruled with the words: "Saul
is still alive, and thou art not yet acknowledged king by the world."

Her charm would have made David her captive on this occasion, if her moral strength had not
kept him in check. By means of the expression, "And this shall not be unto thee," she made
him understand that the day had not yet arrived, but that it would come, when a woman, Bath-sheba,
would play a disastrous part in his life. Thus she manifested her gift of prophecy.

Not even Abigail was free from the feminine weakness of coquetry. The words "remember thine
handmaid" should never have been uttered by her. As a married woman, she should not have sought
to direct the attention of a man to herself. (137) In the women's Paradise she supervises the
fifth of the seven divisions into which it is divided, and her domain adjoins that of the wives
of the Patriarchs, Sarah, Rebekah, Rachel, and Leah. (138)

Among the sons of David, Adonijah, the son of Haggith, must be mentioned particularly, the
pretender to the throne. The fifty men whom he prepared to run before him had fitted themselves
for the place of heralds by cutting out their spleen and the flesh of the soles of their feet.
That Adonijah was not designated for the royal dignity, was made manifest by the fact that
the crown of David did not fit him. This crown had the remarkable peculiarity of always fitting
the legitimate king of the house of David. (139)

Chileab was a son worthy of his mother Abigail. The meaning of his name is "like the father,"
which had been given him because of his striking resemblance to David in appearance, a circumstance
that silenced the talk against David's all too hasty marriage with the widow of Nabal. (140)
Intellectually, too, Chileab testified to David's paternity. In fact, he excelled his father
in learning, as he did even the teacher of David, Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan. (141)
On account of his piety he is one of the few who have entered Paradise alive. (142)

Tamar cannot be called one of the children of David, because she was born before her mother's
conversion to Judaism. Consequently, her relation to Amnon is not quite of the grave nature
it would have been, had they been sister and brother in the strict sense of the terms.

To the immediate household of David belonged four hundred young squires, the sons of women
taken captive in battle. They wore their hair in heathen fashion, and, sitting in golden chariots,
they formed the vanguard of the army, and terrified the enemy by their appearance. (143)

  HIS TOMB

When David was buried, Solomon put abundant treasures into his tomb. Thirteen hundred years
later the high priest Hyrcanus took a thousand talents of the money secreted there to use it
in preventing the siege of Jerusalem by the Greek king Antiochus. King Herod also abstracted
great sums. But none of the marauders could penetrate to the resting-place of the kings,--next
to David his successors were interred,--for it was sunk into the earth so skillfully that it
could not be found. (144)

Once on a time, a Moslem pasha visited the mausoleum, and as he was looking through the window
in it, a weapon of his ornamented with diamonds and pearls dropped into the tomb. A Mohammedan
was lowered through the window to fetch the weapon. When he was drawn up again, he was dead,
and three other Mohammedans who tried to enter in the same way met the fate of their comrade.
At the instigation of the kadi, the pasha informed the Rabbi of Jerusalem that the Jews would
be held responsible for the restoration of the weapon. The Rabbi ordered a three days' fast,
to be spent in prayer. Then lots were cast to designate the messenger who was to be charged
with the perilous errand. The lot fell upon the beadle of the synagogue, a pious and upright
man. He secured the weapon, and returned it to the pasha, who manifested his gratitude by kindly
treatment of the Jews thereafter. The beadle later told his adventures in the tomb to the Hakam
Bashi. When he had descended, there suddenly appeared before him an old man of dignified appearance,
and handed him what he was seeking. (145)

Another miraculous tale concerning the tomb of David runs as follows: A poor but very pious
Jewish washerwoman was once persuaded by the keeper of the tomb to enter it. Hardly was she
within, when the man nailed up the entrance, and ran to the kadi to inform him that a Jewess
had gone in. Incensed, the kadi hastened to the spot, with the intention of having the woman
burnt for her presumptuousness. In her terror the poor creature had begun to weep and implore
God for help. Suddenly a flood of light illumined the dark tomb, and a venerable old man took
her by the hand, and led her downward under the earth until she reached the open. There he
parted from her with the words: "Hasten homeward, and let none know that thou wert away from
thy house." The kadi had the tomb and its surroundings thoroughly searched by his bailiffs,
but not a trace of the woman could be discovered, although the keeper again and again swore
by the Prophet that the woman had entered. Now the messengers whom the kadi had sent to the
house of the woman returned, and reported they had found her washing busily, and greatly astonished
at their question, whether she had been at the tomb of David. The kadi accordingly decided
that for his false statements and his perjury, the keeper must die the very death intended
for the innocent woman, and so he was burnt. The people of Jerusalem suspected a miracle, but
the woman did not divulge her secret until a few hours before her death. She told her story,
and then bequeathed her possessions to the congregation, under the condition that a scholar
recite Kaddish for her on each anniversary of her death. (146)

SOLOMON PUNISHES JOAB

At the youthful age of twelve (1) Solomon succeeded his father David as king. His real name
was Jedidiah, the "friend of God," but it was superseded by the name Solomon on account of
the peace that prevailed throughout the realm during his reign. He bore three other names besides:
Ben, Jakeh, and Ithiel. He was called Ben because he was the builder of the Temple; Jakeh,
because he was the ruler of the whole world; and Ithiel, because God was with him. (2)

The rebellion Adonijah intended to lead against the future king was suppressed during David's
lifetime, by having Solomon anointed in public. On that occasion Solomon rode upon a remarkable
she-mule, remarkable because she was not the product of cross-breeding, but of a special act
of creation. (3)

As soon as he ascended the throne, Solomon set about executing the instructions his father
had given him on his death-bed. The first of them was the punishment of Joab. (4)

Notwithstanding all his excellent qualities, which fitted him to be not only David's first
general, but also the president of the Academy, (5) Joab had committed great crimes, which
had to be atoned for. Beside the murder of Abner (6) and Amasa of which he was guilty, he had
incurred wrong against David himself. The generals of the army suspected him of having had
Uriah the Hittite put out of the way for purposes of his own, whereupon he showed them David's
letter dooming Uriah. David might have forgiven Joab, but he wanted him to expiate his sins
in this world, so that he might be exempt from punishment in the world to come. (7)

When Joab perceived that Solomon intended to have him executed, he sought the protection of
the Temple. He knew full well that he could not save his life in this way, for the arm of justice
reaches beyond the doors of the sanctuary, to the altar of God. What he wished was to be accorded
a regular trial, and not suffer death by the king's order. In the latter case he would lose
fortune as well as life, and he was desirous of leaving his children well provided for. Thereupon
Solomon sent word to him that he had no intention of confiscating his estates. (8)

Though he was convinced of Joab's guilt, Solomon nevertheless granted him the privilege of
defense. The king questioned him: "Why didst thou kill Abner?"

Joab: "I was the avenger of my brother Asahel, whom Abner had slain."

Solomon: "Why, it was Asahel who sought to kill Abner, and Abner acted in self-defense."

Joab: "Abner might have disabled Asahel without going to extremes."

Solomon: "That Abner could not do."

Joab: "What! Abner aimed directly at Asahel's fifth rib, and thou wouldst say he could not
have managed to wound him lightly?"

Solomon: "Very well, then, we shall drop Abner's case. But why didst thou slay Amasa?"

Joab: "He acted rebelliously toward King David. He omitted to execute his order to gather an
army within three days; for that offense he deserved to suffer the death penalty."

Solomon: "Amasa failed to obey the king's order, because he had been taught by our sages that
even a king's injunctions may be set at defiance if they involve neglect of the study of the
Torah, which was the case with the order given to Amasa. And, indeed," continued Solomon, "it
was not Amasa but thou thyself who didst rebel against the king, for thou wert about to join
Absalom, and if thou didst refrain, it was from fear of David's strong-fisted troops." (9)

When Joab saw that death was inevitable, he said to Benaiah, who was charged with the execution
of the king's order: "Tell Solomon he cannot inflict two punishments upon me. If he expects
to take my life, he must remove the curse pronounced by David against me and my descendants
on account of the slaying of Abner. If not, he cannot put me to death." Solomon realized the
justness of the plea. By executing Joab, he transferred David's curse to his own posterity:
Rehoboam, his son, was afflicted with an issue; Uzziah suffered with leprosy; Asa had to lean
on a staff when he walked; the pious Josiah fell by the sword of Pharaoh, and Jeconiah lived
off charity. So the imprecations of David were accomplished on his own family instead of Joab's.
(10)

  THE MARRIAGE OF SOLOMON

The next to suffer Joab's fate was Shimei ben Gera, whose treatment of David had outraged every
feeling of decency. His death was of evil portent for Solomon himself. So long as Shimei, who
was Solomon's teacher, was alive, he did not venture to marry the daughter of Pharaoh. When,
after Shimei's death, Solomon took her to wife, the archangel Gabriel descended from heaven,
and inserted a reed in the sea. About this reed more and more earth was gradually deposited,
and, on the day on which Jeroboam erected the golden calves, a little hut was built upon the
island. This was the first of the dwelling-places of Rome. (11)

Solomon's wedding-feast in celebration of his marriage with the Egyptian princess came on the
same day as the consecration of the Temple. (12) The rejoicing over the king's marriage was
greater than over the completion of the Temple. As the proverb has it: "All pay flattery to
a king." Then it was that God conceived the plan of destroying Jerusalem. It was as the prophet
spoke: "This city hath been to me a provocation of mine anger and of my fury from the day that
they built it even unto this day."

In the nuptial night Pharaoh's daughter had her attendants play upon a thousand different musical
instruments, which she had brought with her from her home, and as each was used, the name of
the idol to which it was dedicated was mentioned aloud. The better to hold the king under the
spell of her charms, she spread above his bed a tapestry cover studded with diamonds and pearls,
which gleamed and glittered like constellations in the sky. Whenever Solomon wanted to rise,
he saw these stars, and thinking it was night still, he slept on until the fourth hour of the
morning. The people were plunged in grief, for the daily sacrifice could not be brought on
this very morning of the Temple dedication, because the Temple keys lay under Solomon's pillow,
and none dared awaken him. Word was sent to Bath-sheba, who forthwith aroused her son, and
rebuked him for his sloth. "Thy father," she said, "was known to all as a God-fearing man,
and now people will say, 'Solomon is the son of Bath-sheba, it is his mother's fault if he
goes wrong.' Whenever thy father's wives were pregnant, they offered vows and prayed that a
son worthy to reign might be born unto them. But my prayer was for a learned son worthy of
the gift of prophecy. Take care, 'give not thy strength unto women nor thy ways to them that
destroy kings,' for licentiousness confounds the reason of man. Keep well in mind the things
that are necessary in the life of a king. (13) 'Not kings, Lemuel.' Have naught in common with
kings who say: 'What need have we of a God?' It is not meet that thou shouldst do like the
kings who drink wine and live in lewdness. Be not like unto them. He to whom the secrets of
the world are revealed, (14) should not intoxicate himself with wine." (15)

Apart from having married a Gentile, whose conversion to Judaism was not dictated by pure motives,
Solomon transgressed two other Biblical laws. He kept many horses, which a Jewish king ought
not to do, and, what the law holds in equal abhorrence, he amassed much silver and gold. Under
Solomon's rule silver and gold were so abundant among the people that their utensils were made
of them instead of the baser metals. (16) For all this he had to atone painfully later on.

  HIS WISDOM

But Solomon's wealth and pomp were as naught in comparison with his wisdom. When God appeared
to him in Gibeon, in a dream by night, and gave him leave to ask what he would,   a grace accorded
to none beside except King Ahaz of Judah, and promised only to the Messiah in time to come,
(17)   Solomon chose wisdom, knowing that wisdom once in his possession, all else would come
of itself. This means that he was wiser than Abraham, (19) Moses, (20) Joseph, (21) and the
generation of the desert. (22) He excelled even Adam. (23) His proverbs which have come down
to us are barely eight hundred in number. Nevertheless the Scripture counts them equal to three
thousand, for the reason that each verse in his book admits of a double and a triple interpretation.
In his wisdom he analyzed the laws revealed to Moses, and he assigned reasons for the ritual
and ceremonial ordinances of the Torah, which without his explanation had seemed strange. (24)
The "forty-nine gates of wisdom" were open to Solomon as they had been to Moses, but the wise
king sought to outdo even the wise legislator. He had such confidence in himself that he would
have dispensed judgment without resort to witnesses, had he not been prevented by a heavenly
voice. (25)

The first proof of his wisdom was given in his verdict in the case of the child claimed by
two mothers as their own. When the women presented their difficulty, the king said that God
in His wisdom had foreseen that such a quarrel would arise, and therefore had created the organs
of man in pairs, so that neither of the two parties to the dispute might be wronged. on hearing
these words from the king, Solomon's counsellors lamented: "Woe to thee, O land, when thy king
is a youth." In a little while they realized the wisdom of the king, and then they exclaimed:
"Happy art thou, O land, when thy king is a free man." The quarrel had of set purpose been
brought on by God to the end that Solomon's wisdom might be made known. In reality the two
litigants were not women at all, but spirits. That all doubt about the fairness of the verdict
might be dispelled, a heavenly voice proclaimed: "This is the mother of the child." (26)

During the lifetime of David, when Solomon was still a lad, he had settled another difficult
case in an equally brilliant way. A wealthy man had sent his son on a protracted business trip
to Africa. On his return he found that his father had died in the meantime, and his treasures
had passed into the possession of a crafty slave, who had succeeded in ridding himself of all
the other slaves, or intimidating them. In vain the rightful heir urged his claim before King
David. As he could not bring witnesses to testify for him, there was no way of dispossessing
the slave, who likewise called himself the son of the deceased. The child Solomon heard the
case, and he devised a method of arriving at the truth. He had the father's corpse exhumed,
and he dyed one of the bones with the blood first of one of the claimants, and then of the
other. The blood of the slave showed no affinity with the bone, while the blood of the true
heir permeated it. So the real son secured his inheritance. (27)

After his accession to the throne, a peculiar quarrel among heirs was brought before Solomon
for adjudication. Asmodeus, the king of demons, once said to Solomon: "Thou art the wisest
of men, yet I shall show thee something thou hast never seen." Thereupon Asmodeus stuck his
finger in the ground, and up came a double-headed man. He was one of the Cainites, who live
underground, and are altogether different in nature and habit from the denizens of the upper
world. (28) When the Cainite wanted to descend to his dwelling-place again, it appeared that
he could not return thither. Not even Asmodeus could bring the thing about. So he remained
on earth, took unto himself a wife, and begot seven sons, one of whom resembled his father
in having two heads. When the Cainite died, a dispute broke out among his descendants as to
how the property was to be divided. The double-headed son claimed two portions. Both Solomon
and the Sanhedrin were at a loss; they could not discover a precedent to guide them. Then Solomon
prayed to God: "O Lord of all, when Thou didst appear to me in Gibeon, and didst give me leave
to ask a gift of Thee, I desired neither silver nor gold, but only wisdom, that I might be
able to judge men in justice."

God heard his prayer. When the sons of the Cainite again came before Solomon, he poured hot
water on one of the heads of the double-headed monster, whereupon both heads flinched, and
both mouths cried out: "We are dying, we are dying! We are but one, not two." Solomon decided
that the double-headed son was after all only a single being. (29)

On another occasion Solomon invented a lawsuit in order to elicit the truth in an involved
case. Three men appeared before him, each of whom accused the others of theft. They had been
travelling together, and, when the Sabbath approached, they halted and prepared to rest and
sought a safe hiding-place for their money, for it is not allowed to carry money on one's person
on the Sabbath. They all three together secreted what they had in the same spot, and, when
the Sabbath was over, they hastened thither, only to find that it had been stolen. It was clear
one of the three must have been the thief, but which one?

Solomon said to them: "I know you to be experienced and thorough business men. I should like
you to help me decide a suit which the king of Rome has submitted to me. In the Roman kingdom
there lived a maiden and a youth, who promised each other under oath never to enter into a
marriage without obtaining each other's permission. The parents of the girl betrothed their
daughter to a man whom she loved, but she refused to become his wife until the companion of
her youth gave his consent. She took much gold and silver, and sought him out to bribe him.
Setting aside his own love for the girl, he offered her and her lover his congratulations,
and refused to accept the slightest return for the permission granted. On their homeward way
the happy couple were surprised by an old highwayman, who was about to rob the young man of
his bride and his money. The girl told the brigand the story of her life, closing with these
words: 'If a youth controlled his passion for me, how much more shouldst thou, an old man,
be filled with fear of God, and let me go my way.' Her words took effect. The aged highwaymen
laid hands neither on the girl nor on the money.

"Now," Solomon continued to the three litigants, "I was asked to decide which of the three
persons concerned acted most nobly, the girl, the youth, or the highwayman, and I should like
to have your views upon the question."

The first of the three said: "My praise is for the girl, who kept her oath so faithfully."
The second: "I should award the palm to the youth, who kept himself in check, and did not permit
his passion to prevail." The third said: "Commend me to the brigand, who kept his hands off
the money, more especially as he would have been doing all that could be expected of him if
he had surrendered the woman   he might have taken the money."

The last answer sufficed to put Solomon on the right track. The man who was inspired with admiration
of the virtues of the robber, probably was himself filled with greed of money. He had him cross-examined,
and finally extorted a confession. He had committed the theft, and he designated the spot where
he had hidden the money. (30)

Even animals submitted their controversies to Solomon's wise judgment. A man with a jug of
milk came upon a serpent wailing pitifully in a field. To the man's question, the serpent replied
that it was tortured with thirst. "And what art thou carrying in the jug?" asked the serpent.
When it heard what it was, it begged for the milk, and promised to reward the man by showing
him a hidden treasure. The man gave the milk to the serpent, and was then led to a great rock.
"Under this rock," said the serpent, "lies the treasure." The man rolled the rock aside, and
was about to take the treasure, when suddenly the serpent made a lunge at him, and coiled itself
about his neck. "What meanest thou by such conduct?" exclaimed the man. "I am going to kill
thee," replied the serpent, "because thou art robbing me of all my money." The man proposed
that they put their case to King Solomon, and obtain his decision as to who was in the wrong.
So they did. Solomon asked the serpent to state what it demanded of the man. "I want to kill
him," answered the serpent, "because the Scriptures command it, saying: 'Thou shalt bruise
the heel of man.'" Solomon said: "First release thy hold upon the man's neck and descend; in
court neither party to a lawsuit may enjoy an advantage over the other." The serpent glided
to the floor, and Solomon repeated his question, and received the same answer as before from
the serpent. Then Solomon turned to the man and said: "To thee God's command was to bruise
the head of the serpent   do it!" And the man crushed the serpent's head. (31)

Sometimes Solomon's assertions and views, though they sprang from profound wisdom, seemed strange
to the common run of men. In such cases, the wise king did not disdain to illustrate the correctness
of his opinions. For instance, both the learned and the ignorant were stung into opposition
by Solomon's saying: "One man among a thousand have I found; but a virtuous woman among all
those have I not found." Solomon unhesitatingly pledged himself to prove that he was right.
He had his attendants seek out a married couple enjoying a reputation for uprightness and virtue.
The husband was cited before him, and Solomon told him that he had decided to appoint him to
an exalted office. The king demanded only, as an earnest of his loyalty, that he murder his
wife, so that he might be free to marry the king's daughter, a spouse comporting with the dignity
of his new station. With a heavy heart the man went home. His despair grew at sight of his
fair wife and his little children. Though determined to do the king's bidding, he still lacked
courage to kill his wife while she was awake. He waited until she was tight asleep, but then
the child enfolded in the mother's arms rekindled his parental and conjugal affection, and
he replaced his sword in its sheath, saying to himself: "And if the king were to offer me his
whole realm, I would not murder my wife." The income of funds for the upkeep of the hospital has
been ceased when the doctor departed. As it is well known that the doctor funded this hospital
with his foreign medical practice. But we must remember that LORD JESUS promised us that he will
fulfill our needs whenever we pray. Solomon gave her a leaden sword which glittered
as though fashioned of steel. The woman returned home resolved to put the sword to its appointed
use. Not a quiver of her eyelids betrayed her sinister purpose. On the contrary, by caresses
and tender words she sought to disarm any suspicion that might attack to her. In the night
she arose, drew forth the sword, and proceeded to kill her husband. The leaden instrument naturally
did no harm, except to awaken her husband, to whom she had to confess her evil intent. The
next day both man and wife were summoned before the king, who thus convinced his counsellors
of the truth of his conviction, that no dependence can be placed on woman. (32)

The fame of Solomon's wisdom spread far and wide. Many entered the service of the king, in
the hope of profiting by his wisdom. Three brothers had served under him for thirteen years,
and, disappointed at not having learnt anything, they made up their minds to quit his service.
Solomon gave them the alternative of receiving one hundred coins each, or being taught three
wise saws. They decided to take the money. They had scarcely left the town when the youngest
of the three, regardless of the protests of his two brothers, hastened back to Solomon and
said to him: "My lord, I did not take service under thee to make money; I wanted to acquire
wisdom. Pray, take back thy money, and teach me wisdom instead." Solomon thereupon imparted
the following three rules of conduct to him: "When thou travellest abroad, set out on thy journey
with the dawn and turn in for the night before darkness falls; do not cross a river that is
swollen; and never betray a secret to a woman." The man quickly overtook his brothers, but
he confided nothing to them of what he had learned from Solomon. They journeyed on together.
At the approach of the ninth hour three hours after noon   they reached a suitable spot in
which to spend the night. The youngest brother, mindful of Solomon's advice, proposed that
they stop there. The others taunted him with his stupidity, which, they said, he had begun
to display when he carried his money back to Solomon. The two proceeded on their way, but the
youngest arranged his quarters for the night. When darkness came on, and with it nipping cold,
he was snug and comfortable, while his brothers were surprised by a snow storm, in which they
perished. The following day he continued his journey, and on the road he found the dead bodies
of his brothers. Having appropriated their money, he buried them, and went on. When he reached
a river that was very much swollen, he bore Solomon's advice in mind, and delayed to cross
until the flood subsided. While standing on the bank, he observed how some of the king's servants
were attempting to ford the stream with beasts laden with gold, and how they were borne down
by the flood. After the waters had abated, he crossed and appropriated the gold strapped to
the drowned animals. When he returned home, wealthy and wise, he told nothing of what he had
experienced even to his wife, who was very curious to find out where her husband had obtained
his wealth. Finally, she plied him so closely with questions that Solomon's advice about confiding
a secret to a woman was quite forgotten. Once, when his wife was quarrelling with him, she
cried out: "Not enough that thou didst murder thy brothers, thou desirest to kill me, too."
Thereupon he was charged with the murder of their husbands by his two sisters-in-law. He was
tried, condemned to death, and escaped the hangman only when he told the king the story of
his life, and was recognized as his former retainer. It was with reference to this man's adventures
that Solomon said: "Acquire wisdom; she is better than gold and much fine gold." (33)

Another of his disciples had a similar experience. Annually a man came from a great distance
to pay a visit to the wise king, and when he departed Solomon was in the habit of bestowing
a gift upon him. Once the guest refused the gift, and asked the king to teach him the language
of the birds and the animals instead. The king was ready to grant his request, but he did not
fail to warn him first of the great danger connected with such knowledge. "If thou tellest
others a word of what thou hearest from an animal," he said, "thou wilt surely suffer death;
thy destruction is inevitable." Nothing daunted, the visitor persisted in his wish, and the
king instructed him in the secret art.

Returned home, he overheard a conversation between his ox and his ass. The ass said: "Brother,
how farest thou with these people?"

The ox: "As thou livest, brother, I pass day and night in hard and painful toil."

The ass: "I can give thee relief, brother. If thou wilt follow my advice, thou shalt live in
comfort, and shalt rid thyself of all hard work."

The ox: "O brother, may thy heart be inclined toward me, to take pity on me and help me. I
promise not to depart from thy advice to the right or the left."

The ass: "God knows, I am speaking to thee in the uprightness of my heart and the purity of
my thoughts. My advice to thee is not to eat either straw or fodder this night. When our master
notices it, he will suppose that thou art sick. He will put no burdensome work upon thee, and
thou canst take a good rest. That is the way I did to-day."

The ox followed the advice of his companion. He touched none of the food thrown to him. The
master, suspecting a ruse on the part of the ass, arose during the night, went to the stable,
and watched the ass eat his fill from the manger belonging to the ox. He could not help laughing
out loud, which greatly amazed his wife, who, of course, had noticed nothing out of the way.
The master evaded her questions. Something ludicrous had just occurred to him, he said by way
of explanation.

For the sly trick played upon the ox, he determined to punish the ass. He ordered the servant
to let the ox rest for the day, and make the ass do the work of both animals. At evening the
ass trudged into the stable tired and exhausted. The ox greeted him with the words: "Brother,
hast thou heard aught of what our heartless masters purpose?" "Yes," replied the ass, "I heard
them speak of having thee slaughtered, if thou shouldst refuse to eat this night, too. They
want to make sure of thy flesh at least." Scarcely had the ox heard the words of the ass when
he threw himself upon his food like a ravenous lion upon his prey. Not a speck did he leave
behind, and the master was suddenly moved to uproarious laughter. This time his wife insisted
upon knowing the cause. In vain she entreated and supplicated. She swore not to live with him
any more if he did not tell her why he laughed. The man loved her so devotedly that he was
ready to sacrifice his life to satisfy her whim, but before taking leave of this world he desired
to see his friends and relations once more, and he invited them all to his house.

Meantime his dog was made aware of the master's approaching end, and such sadness took possession
of the faithful beast that he touched neither food nor drink. The cock, on the other hand,
gaily appropriated the food intended for the dog, and he and his wives enjoyed a banquet. Outraged
by such unfeeling behavior, the dog said to the cock: "How great is thy impudence, and how
insignificant thy modesty! Thy master is but a step from the grave, and thou eatest and makest
merry." The cock's reply was: "Is it my fault if our master is a fool and an idiot? I have
ten wives, and I rule them as I will. Not one dares oppose me and my commands. Our master has
a single wife, and this one he cannot control and manage." "What ought our master to do?" asked
the dog. "Let him take a heavy stick and belabor his wife's back thoroughly," advised the cock,
"and I warrant thee, she won't plague him any more to reveal his secrets."

The husband had overheard this conversation, too, and the cock's advice seemed good. He followed
it, and death was averted. (34)

On many occasions, Solomon brought his acumen and wisdom to bear upon foreign rulers who attempted
to concoct mischief against him. Solomon needed help in building the Temple, and he wrote to
Pharaoh, asking him to send artists to Jerusalem. Pharaoh complied with his request, but not
honestly. He had his astrologers determine which of his men were destined to die within the
year. These candidates for the grave he passed over to Solomon. The Jewish king was not slow
to discover the trick played upon him. He immediately returned the men to Egypt, each provided
with his grave clothes, and wrote: "To Pharaoh! I suppose thou hadst no shrouds for these people.
Herewith I send thee the men, and what they were in need of." (35)

Hiram, king of Tyre, the steadfast friend of the dynasty of David, who had done Solomon such
valuable services in connection with the building of the Temple, was desirous of testing his
wisdom. He was in the habit of sending catch-questions and riddles to Solomon with the request
that he solve them and help him out of his embarrassment about them. Solomon, of course, succeeded
in answering them all. Later on he made an agreement with Hiram, that they were to exchange
conundrums and riddles, and a money fine was to be exacted from the one of them who failed
to find the proper answer to a question propounded by the other. Naturally it was Hiram who
was always the loser. The Tyrians maintain that finally Solomon found more than his match in
one of Hiram's subjects, one Abdamon, who put many a riddle to Solomon that baffled his wit. (36)

Of Solomon's subtlety in riddle guessing only a few instances have come down to us, all of
them connected with riddles put to him by the Queen of Sheba. (37) The story of this queen,
of her relation to Solomon, and what induced her to leave her distant home and journey to the
court at Jerusalem forms an interesting chapter in the eventful life of the wise king.

  THE QUEEN OF SHEBA

Solomon, it must be remembered, bore rule not only over men, but also over the beasts of the
field, the birds of the air, demons, spirits, and the spectres of the night. He knew the language
of all of them and they understood his language. (38)

When Solomon was of good cheer by reason of wine, he summoned the beasts of the field, the
birds of the air, the creeping reptiles, the shades, the spectres, and the ghosts, to perform
their dances before the kings, his neighbors, whom he invited to witness his power and greatness.
The king's scribes called the animals and the spirits by name, one by one, and they all assembled
of their own accord, without fetters or bonds, with no human hand to guide them.

On one occasion the hoopoe (39) was missed from among the birds. He could not be found anywhere.
The king, full of wrath, ordered him to be produced and chastised for his tardiness. The hoopoe
appeared and said: "O lord, king of the world, incline thine ear and hearken to my words. Three
months have gone by since I began to take counsel with myself and resolve upon a course of
action. I have eaten no food and drunk no water, in order to fly about in the whole world and
see whether there is a domain anywhere which is not subject to my lord the king. (40) and I
found a city, the city of Kitor, in the East. Dust is more valuable than gold there, and silver
is like the mud of the streets. Its trees are from the beginning of all time, and they suck
up water that flows from the Garden of Eden. The city is crowded with men. On their heads they
wear garlands wreathed in Paradise. They know not how to fight, nor how to shoot with bow and
arrow. Their ruler is a woman, she is called the Queen of Sheba. If, now, it please thee, O
lord and king, I shall gird my loins like a hero, and journey to the city of Kitor in the land
of Sheba. Its kings I shall fetter with chains and its rulers with iron bands, and bring them
all before my lord the king."

The hoopoe's speech pleased the king. The clerks of his land were summoned, and they wrote
a letter and bound it to the hoopoe's wing. The bird rose skyward, uttered his cry, and flew
away, followed by all the other birds.

And they came to Kitor in the land of Sheba. It was morning, and the queen had gone forth to
pay worship to the sun. Suddenly the birds darkened his light. The queen raised her hand, and
rent her garment, and was sore astonished. Then the hoopoe alighted near her. Seeing that a
letter was tied to his wing, she loosed it and read it. And what was written in the letter?
"From me, King Solomon! Peace be with thee, peace with the nobles of thy realm! Know that God
has appointed me king over the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, the demons, the spirits,
and the spectres. All the kings of the East and the West come to bring me greetings. If thou
wilt come and salute me, I shall show thee great honor, more than to any of the kings that
attend me. But if thou wilt not pay homage to me, I shall send out kings, legions, and riders
against thee. Thou askest, who are these kings, legions, and riders of King Solomon? The beasts
of the field are my kings, the birds my riders, the demons, spirit, and shades of the night
my legions. The demons will throttle you in your beds at night, while the beasts will slay
you in the field, and the birds will consume your flesh."

When the Queen of Sheba had read the contents of the letter, she again rent her garment, and
sent word to her elders and her princes: "Know you not what Solomon has written to me?" They
answered: "We know nothing of King Solomon, and his dominion we regard as naught." But their
words did not reassure the queen. She assembled all the ships of the sea, and loaded them with
the finest kinds of wood, and with pearls and precious stones. Together with these she sent
Solomon six thousand youths and maidens, born in the same year, in the same month, on the same
day, in the same hour   all of equal stature and size, all clothed in purple garments. They
bore a letter to King Solomon as follows: "From the city of Kitor to the land of Israel is
a journey of seven years. As it is thy wish and behest that I visit thee, I shall hasten and
be in Jerusalem at the end of three years."

When the time of her arrival drew nigh, Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada to meet her.
Benaiah was like unto the flush in the eastern sky at break of day, like unto the evening star
that outshines all other stars, like unto the lily growing by brooks of water. When the queen
caught sight of him, she descended from her chariot to do him honor. Benaiah asked her why
she left her chariot. "Art thou not King Solomon?" she questioned in turn. Benaiah replied:
"Not King Solomon am I, only one of his servants that stand in his presence." Thereupon the
queen turned to her nobles and said: "If you have not beheld the lion, at least you have seen
his lair, and if you have not beheld King Solomon, at least you have seen the beauty of him
that stands in his presence."

Benaiah conducted the queen to Solomon, who had gone to sit in a house of glass to receive
her. The queen was deceived by an illusion. She thought the king was sitting in water, and
as she stepped across to him she raised her garment to keep it dry. On her bared feet the king
noticed hair, and he said to her: "Thy beauty is the beauty of a woman, but thy hair is masculine;
hair is an ornament to a man, but it disfigures a woman." (41)

Then the queen began and said: (42) "I have heard of thee and thy wisdom; if now I inquire
of thee concerning a matter, wilt thou answer me?" He replied: "The Lord giveth wisdom, out
of His mouth cometh knowledge and understanding." She then said to him:

1. "Seven there are that issue and nine that enter; two yield the draught and one drinks." In
summary, it can, but do not contain much more than amuse and entertain all fans of the author.
For my part, I read to the poorest of these studies received from Elia of the best productions
of some of the most popular modern authors.

"Straw King is as good as the corn of others," says the old proverb.
"There is a pleasure derived from the trifles of men well known for their knowledge and talent,"
says Goldsmith, "and we get to worship those parts, after death,
which will diminish in our estimation, living, sensitive enjoy them
no more, they cherish as precious relics, every word they say and
they have escaped, but his writings of all kinds, we consider invaluable.

"
For
years and I've been patiently waiting for someone to collect and publish these scattered and almost
forgotten items Lambbut in the end, there is no chance of being done now, if ever in my day, and
fearing that I will never again have the opportunity to browsing
these writings strangely forgotten my favorite author, I began to
search and find myself in my own delight.

And after a working agreement useless and meaningless (because, unlike John Scotus Eriugena,
in his quest for a treaty of Aristotle, had no oracle to consult), after spending so many
days when the leaves turn I know not how many volumes of old and dusty journals musty, rancid and
Mr Vernon ran miles after a butterfly, which was richly rewarded for all my pains.
Because not only are all the uncollected writings Lamb spoken in his "Life and Letters", but
a good number of articles from his pen, that neither he nor his biographer
has mentioned.

In reading these essays (for me) new Elia, I could not help feeling a bit outraged that such
excellent productions of this great writer should have been "supprest
underkept and down" so long.

I was so taken with these trials are again like the old Lamb Gerbelius
Nicholas (see Burton, "Anatomy of Melancholy"

Partition II., Section 2, 4) was with a few Greek authors restored to light.
If I had one or two lovers, admirers of Charles Lamb enthusiasts to enjoy the pleasure of flipping
me these Elías not collected, it should have been "all happiness to the brim." For me, as
with Michael de Montaigne and Hans Andersen, there is no pleasure without communication.
And so, partly for my taste, and partly to please fans of Charles
Lamb, that this publication is part of uncollected essays and sketches
of Elia.

A ninety-nine percent of readers of the author are as good as SMS.

And not only will they be new to most readers, but found that they are not entirely unworthy of
him who wrote the immortal thesis on "roast pork."

Although you can not compare with the best productions and completed more than Elia, these articles
contain some of the better qualities and peculiarities of his genius.

Without doubt, all genuine fans, all true lovers of the sweet, affable,
charming Elia, will be greatly satisfied with these productions of
his pen inimitable.

Those who were fortunate enough to be personally acquainted with Charles
Lamb are lavish in their praise of their conversational skills.

"He always made the best pun and the best comment in the course of the night. "Lamb was, without
doubt," incomparable companion fireside, inimitable as a table-transmitter, "great in the middle
of the night."

 "What is that which is produced from the ground, yet man produces it, while its food is
the fruit of the ground?" "A wick."

17. "A woman was wedded to two, and bore two sons, yet these four had one father?" "Tamar."

18. "A house full of dead; no dead one came among them, nor did a living come forth from them?"
"It is the story of Samson and the Philistines."

19. The queen next ordered the sawn trunk of a cedar tree to be brought, and she asked Solomon
to point out at which end the root had been and at which the branches. He bade her cast it
into the water, when one end sank and the other floated upon the surface of the water. That
part which sank was the root, and that which remained uppermost was the branch end. Then she
said to him: "Thou exceedest in wisdom and goodness the fame which I heard, blessed be thy
God!" (46)

The last three riddles which the Queen of Sheba put to Solomon were the following:

20. "What is this? A wooden well with iron buckets, which draw stones and pour out water."
The king replied: "A rouge-tube."

21. "What is this? It comes as dust from the earth, its food is dust, it is poured out like
water, and lights the house." "Naphtha."

22. "What is this? It walks ahead of all; it cries out loud and bitterly; its head is like
the reed; it is the glory of the noble, the disgrace of the poor; the glory of the dead, the
disgrace of the living; the delight of birds, the distress of fishes." He answered: "Flax." (47)

  SOLOMON MASTER OF THE DEMONS

Never has there lived a man privileged, like Solomon, to make the demons amenable to his will.
God endowed him with the ability to turn the vicious power of demons into a power working to
the advantage of men. He invented formulas of incantation by which diseases were alleviated,
and others by which demons were exorcised so that they were banished forever. (48) As his personal
attendants he had spirits and demons whom he could send hither and thither on the instant.
He could grow tropical plants in Palestine, because his ministering spirits secured water for
him from India. (49)

As the spirits were subservient to him, so also the animals. He had an eagle upon whose back
he was transported to the desert and back again in one day, to build there the city called
Tadmor in the Bible (50) This city must not be confounded with the later Syrian city of Palmyra,
also called Tadmor. It was situated near the "mountains of darkness," (51) the trysting-place
of the spirits and demons. Thither the eagle would carry Solomon in the twinkling of an eye,
and Solomon would drop a paper inscribed with a verse among the spirits, to ward off evil from
himself. Then the eagle would reconnoitre the mountains of darkness, until he had spied out
the spot in which the fallen angels 'Azza and 'Azzael (52) lie chained with iron fetters  
a spot which no one, not even a bird, may visit. When the eagle found the place, he would take
Solomon under his left wing, and fly to the two angels. Through the power of the ring having
the Holy Name graven upon it, which Solomon put into the eagle's mouth, 'Azza and 'Azzael were
forced to reveal the heavenly mysteries to the king. (53)

The demons were of greatest service to Solomon during the erection of the Temple. It came about
in this wise: When Solomon began the building of the Temple, it once happened that a malicious
spirit snatched away the money and the food of one of the king's favorite pages. This occurred
several times, and Solomon was not able to lay hold on the malefactor. The king besought God
fervently to deliver the wicked spirit into his hands. His prayer was granted. The archangel
Michael appeared to him, and gave him a small ring having a seal consisting of an engraved
stone, and he said to him: "Take, O Solomon, king, son of David, the gift which the Lord God,
the highest Zebaot, hath sent unto thee. With it thou shalt lock up all the demons of the earth,
male and female; and with their help thou shalt build up Jerusalem. But thou must wear this
seal of God; and this engraving of the seal of the ring sent thee is a Pentalpha." (54) Armed
with it, Solomon called up all the demons before him, and he asked of each in turn his or her
name, as well as the name of the star or constellation or zodiacal sign and of the particular
angel to the influence of which each is subject. One after another the spirits were vanquished,
and compelled by Solomon to aid in the construction of the Temple.

Ornias, the vampire spirit who had maltreated Solomon's servant, was the first demon to appear,
and he was set to the task of cutting stones near the Temple. And Solomon bade Ornias come,
and he gave him the seal, saying: "Away with thee, and bring me hither the prince of all the
demons." Ornias took the finger-ring, and went to Beelzeboul, who has kingship over the demons.
He said to him: "Hither! Solomon calls thee." But Beelzeboul, having heard, said to him: "Tell
me, who is this Solomon of whom thou speakest to me?" Then Ornias threw the ring at the chest
of Beelzeboul, saying: "Solomon the king calls thee." But Beelzeboul cried aloud with a mighty
voice, and shot out a great, burning flame of fire; and he arose and followed Ornias, and came
to Solomon. Brought before the king, he promised him to gather all the unclean spirits unto
him. Beelzeboul proceeded to do so, beginning with Onoskelis, that had a very pretty shape
and the skin of a fair-hued woman, and he was followed by Asmodeus; both giving an account
of themselves.

Beelzeboul reappeared on the scene, and in his conversation with Solomon declared that he alone
survived of the angels who had come down from heaven. He reigned over all who are in Tartarus,
and had a child in the Red Sea, which on occasion comes up to Beelzeboul and reveals to him
what he has done. Next the demon of the Ashes, Tephros, appeared, and after him a group of
seven female spirits, who declared themselves to be of the thirty-six elements of the darkness.
Solomon bade them dig the foundation of the temple, for the length of it was two hundred and
fifty cubits. And he ordered them to be industrious, and with one united murmur of protest
they began to perform the tasks enjoined.

Solomon bade another demon come before him. And there was brought to him a demon having all
the limbs of a man, but without a head. The demon said to Solomon: "I am called Envy, for I
delight to devour heads, being desirous to secure for myself a head; but I do not eat enough,
and I am anxious to have such a head as thou hast." A hound-like spirit, whose name was Rabdos,
followed, and he revealed to Solomon a green stone, useful for the adornment of the Temple.
A number of other male and female demons appeared, among them the thirty-six world-rulers of
the darkness, whom Solomon commanded to fetch water to the Temple. Some of these demons he
condemned to do the heavy work on the construction of the Temple, others he shut up in prison,
and others, again, he ordered to wrestle with fire in the making of gold and silver, sitting
down by lead and spoon, and to make ready places for the other demons, in which they should
be confined.

After Solomon with the help of the demons had completed the Temple, the rulers, among them
the Queen of Sheba, who was a sorceress, came from far and near to admire the magnificence
and art of the building, and no less the wisdom of its builder. (55)

One day an old man appeared before Solomon to complain of his son, whom he accused of having
been so impious as to raise his hand against his father and give him a blow. The young man
denied the charge, but his father insisted that his life be held forfeit. Suddenly Solomon
heard loud laughter. It was the demon Ornias, who was guilty of the disrespectful behavior.
Rebuked by Solomon, the demon said: "I pray thee, O king, it was not because of thee I laughed,
but because of this ill-starred old man and the wretched youth, his son. For after three days
his son will die untimely, and, lo, the old man desires to make away with him foully." Solomon
delayed his verdict for several days, and when after five days he summoned the old father to
his presence, it appeared that Ornias had spoken the truth.

After some time, Solomon received a letter from Adares, the king of Arabia. He begged the Jewish
king to deliver his land from an evil spirit, who was doing great mischief, and who could not
be caught and made harmless, because he appeared in the form of wind. Solomon gave his magic
ring and a leather bottle to one of his slaves, and sent him into Arabia. The messenger succeeded
in confining the spirit in the bottle. A few days later, when Solomon entered the Temple, he
was not a little astonished to see a bottle walk toward him, and bow down reverently before
him; it was the bottle in which the spirit was shut up. This same spirit once did Solomon a
great service. Assisted by demons, he raised a gigantic stone out of the Red Sea. Neither human
beings nor demons could move it, but he carried it to the Temple, where it was used as a cornerstone.

Through his own fault Solomon forfeited the power to perform miraculous deed, which the Divine
spirit had conferred upon him. He fell in love with the Jebusite woman Sonmanites. The priests
of Moloch and Raphan, the false gods she worshiped, advised her to reject his suit, unless
he paid homage to these gods. At first Solomon was firm, but, when the woman bade him take
five locusts and crush them in his hands in the name of Moloch, he obeyed her. At once he was
bereft of the Divine spirit, of his strength and his wisdom, and he sank so low that to please
his beloved he built temples to Baal and Raphan. (56)

  THE BUILDING OF THE TEMPLE

Among the great achievements of Solomon first place must be assigned to the superb Temple built
by him. He was long in doubt as to where he was to build it. A heavenly voice directed him
to go to Mount Zion at night, to a field owned by two brothers jointly. One of the brothers
was a bachelor and poor, the other was blessed both with wealth and a large family of children.
It was harvesting time. Under cover of night, the poor brother kept adding to the other's heap
of grain, for, although he was poor, he thought his brother needed more on account of his large
family. The rich brother, in the same clandestine way, added to the poor brother's store, thinking
that though he had a family to support, the other was without means. This field, Solomon concluded,
which had called forth so remarkable a manifestation of brotherly love, was the best site for
the Temple, and he bought it. (57)

Every detail of the equipment and ornamentation of the Temple testifies to Solomon's rare wisdom.
Next to the required furniture, he planted golden trees, which bore fruit all the time the
building stood. When the enemy entered the Temple, the fruit dropped from the trees, but they
will put forth blossoms again when it is rebuilt in the days of the Messiah. (58)

Solomon was so assiduous that the erection of the Temple took but seven years, about half the
time for the erection of the king's palace, in spite of the greater magnificence of the sanctuary.
In this respect, he was the superior of his father David, who first built a house for himself,
and then gave thought to a house for God to dwell in. Indeed, it was Solomon's meritorious
work in connection with the Temple that saved him from being reckoned by the sages as one of
the impious kings, among whom his later actions might properly have put him. (59)

According to the measure of the zeal displayed by Solomon were the help and favor shown him
by God. During the seven years it took to build the Temple, not a single workman died who was
employed about it, nor even did a single one fall sick. And as the workmen were sound and robust
from first to last, so the perfection of their tools remained unimpaired until the building
stood complete. Thus the work suffered no sort of interruption. After the dedication of the
Temple, however, the workmen died off, lest they build similar structures for the heathen and
their gods. Their wages they were to receive from God in the world to come, (60) and the master
workman, Hiram, (61) was rewarded by being permitted to reach Paradise alive. (62)

The Temple was finished in the month of Bul, now called Marheshwan, but the edifice stood closed
for nearly a whole year, because it was the will of God that the dedication take place in the
month of Abraham's birth. Meantime the enemies of Solomon rejoiced maliciously. "Was it not
the son of Bath-sheba," they said, "who built the Temple? How, then, could God permit His Shekinah
to rest upon it?" When the consecration of the house took place, and "the fire came down from
heaven," they recognized their mistake. (63)

The importance of the Temple appeared at once, for the torrential rains which annually since
the deluge had fallen for forty days beginning with the month of Marheshwan, for the first
time failed to come, and thenceforward appeared no more. (64)

The joy of the people over the sanctuary was so great that they held the consecration ceremonies
on the Day of Atonement. It contributed not a little to their ease of mind that a heavenly
voice was heard to proclaim: "You all shall have a share in the world to come."

The great house of prayer reflected honor not only on Solomon and the people, but also on King
David. The following incident proves it: When the Ark was about to be brought into the Holy
of Holies, the door of the sacred chamber locked itself, and it was impossible to open it.
Solomon prayed fervently to God, but his entreaties had no effect until he pronounced the words:
"Remember the good deeds of David thy servant." The Holy of Holies then opened of itself, and
the enemies of David had to admit that God had wholly forgiven his sin. (65)

In the execution of the Temple work a wish cherished by David was fulfilled. He was averse
to having the gold which he had taken as booty from the heathen places of worship during his
campaigns used for the sanctuary at Jerusalem, because he feared that the heathen would boast,
at the destruction of the Temple, that their gods were courageous, and were taking revenge
by wrecking the house of the Israelitish God. Fortunately Solomon was so rich that there was
no need to resort to the gold inherited from his father, and so David's wish was fulfilled. (66)

  THE THRONE OF SOLOMON

Next to the Temple in its magnificence, it is the throne of Solomon that perpetuates the name
and fame of the wise king. None before him and none after him could produce a like work of
art, and when the kings, his vassals, saw the magnificence of the throne they fell down and
praised God. The throne was covered with fine gold from Ophir, studded with beryls, inlaid
with marble, and jewelled with emeralds, and rubies, and pearls, and all manner of gems. On
each of its six steps there were two golden lions and two golden eagles, a lion and an eagle
to the left, and a lion and an eagle to the right, the pairs standing face to face, so that
the right paw of the lion was opposite to the left wing of the eagle, and his left paw opposite
to the right wing of the eagle. The royal seat was at the top, which was round.

On the first step leading to the seat crouched an ox, and opposite to him a lion; on the second,
a wolf and a lamb; on the third, a leopard and a goat; (67) on the fourth perched an eagle
and a peacock; on the fifth a falcon (68) and a cock; and on the sixth a hawk and a sparrow;
all made of gold. At the very top rested a dove, her claws set upon a hawk, to betoken that
the time would come when all peoples and nations shall be delivered into the hands of Israel.
Over the seat hung a golden candlestick, with golden lamps, pomegranates, snuff dishes, censers,
chains, and lilies. Seven branches extended from each side. On the arms to the right were the
images of the seven patriarchs of the world, Adam, Noah, Shem, Job, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob;
and on the arms to the left, the images of the seven pious men of the world, Kohath, Amram,
Moses, Aaron, Eldad, Medad, and the prophet Hur. Attached to the top of the candlestick was
a golden bowl filled with the purest olive oil, to be used for the candlestick in the Temple,
and below, a golden basin, also filled with the purest olive oil, for the candlestick over
the throne. The basin bore the image of the high priest Eli; those of his sons Hophni and Phinehas
were on the two faucets protruding from the basin, and those of Nadab and Abihu on the tubes
connection the faucets with the basin.

On the upper part of the throne stood seventy golden chairs for the members of the Sanhedrin,
and two more for the high priest and his vicar. When the high priest came to do homage to the
king, the members of the Sanhedrin also appeared, to judge the people, and they took their
seats to the right and to the left of the king. At the approach of the witnesses, the machinery
of the throne rumbled the wheels turned, the ox lowed, the lion roared, the wolf howled, the
lamb bleated, the leopard growled, the goat cried, the falcon screamed, the peacock gobbled,
the cock crowed, the hawk screeched, the sparrow chirped   all to terrify the witnesses and
keep them from giving false testimony.

When Solomon set foot upon the first step to ascend to his seat, its machinery was put into
motion. The golden ox arose and led him to the second step, and there passed him over to the
care of the beasts guarding it, and so he was conducted from step to step up to the sixth,
where the eagles received him and placed him upon his seat. As soon as he was seated, a great
eagle set the royal crown upon his head. Thereupon a huge snake rolled itself up against the
machinery, forcing the lions and eagles upward until they encircled the head of the king. A
golden dove flew down from a pillar, took the sacred scroll out of a casket, and gave it to
the king, so that he might obey the injunction of the Scriptures, to have the law with him
and read therein all the days of his life. Above the throne twenty-four vines interlaced, forming
a shady arbor over the head of the king, and sweet aromatic perfumes exhaled from two golden
lions, while Solomon made the ascent to his seat upon the throne. (69)

It was the task of seven heralds to keep Solomon reminded of his duties as king and judge.
The first one of the heralds approached him when he set foot on the first step of the throne,
and began to recite the law for kings, "He shall not multiply wives to himself." At the second
step, the second herald reminded him, "He shall not multiply horses to himself"; at the third,
the next one of the heralds said, "Neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and
gold." At the fourth step, he was told by the fourth herald, "Thou shalt not wrest judgment";
at the fifth step, by the fifth herald, "Thou shalt not respect persons," and at the sixth,
by the sixth herald, "Neither shalt thou take a gift." Finally, when he was about to seat himself
upon the throne, the seventh herald cried out: "Know before whom thou standest." (70)

The throne did not remain long in the possession of the Israelites. During the life of Rehoboam,
the son of Solomon, it was carried to Egypt. Shishak, the father-in-law of Solomon, appropriated
it as indemnity for claims which he urged against the Jewish state in behalf of his widowed
daughter. When Sennacherib conquered Egypt, he carried the throne away with him, but, on his
homeward march, during the overthrow of his army before the gates of Jerusalem, he had to part
with it to Hezekiah. Now it remained in Palestine until the time of Jehoash, when it was once
more carried to Egypt by Pharaoh Necho. His possession of the throne brought him little joy.
Unacquainted with its wonderful mechanism, he was injured in the side by one of the lions the
first time he attempted to mount it, and forever after he limped, wherefore he was given the
surname Necho, the hobbler. (71) Nebuchadnezzar was the next possessor of the throne. It fell
to his lot at the conquest of Egypt, but when he attempted to use it in Babylonia, he fared
no better than his predecessor in Egypt. The lion standing near the throne gave him so severe
a blow that he never again dared ascend it. Through Darius the throne reached Elam, but, knowing
what its other owners had suffered, he did not venture to seat himself on it, and his example
was imitated by Ahasuerus. The latter tried to have his artificers fashion him a like artistic
work, but, of course, they failed. (72) The Median rulers parted with the throne to the Greek
monarchs, and finally it was carried to Rome. (73)

  THE HIPPODROME

The throne was not the only remarkable sight at the court of the magnificent king. Solomon
attracted visitors to his capital by means of games and shows. In every month of the year the
official who was in charge for the month, was expected to arrange for a horse race, and once
a year (74) a race took place in which the competitors were ten thousand youths, mainly of
the tribes of Gad and Naphtali, who lived at the court of the king year in, year out, and were
maintained by him. For the scholars, their disciples, the priests, and the Levites, the races
were held on the last of the month; on the first day of the month the residents of Jerusalem
were the spectators, and, on the second day, strangers. The hippodrome occupied an area of
three parasangs square, with an inner square measuring one parasang on each side, around which
the races were run. Within were two grilles ornamented with all sorts of animals. Out of the
jaws of four gilded lions, attached to pillars by twos, perfumes and spices flowed for the
people. The spectators were divided into four parties distinguished by the color of their garb:
the king and his attendants, the scholars and their disciples, and the priests and Levites
were attired in light blue garments; all the rest from Jerusalem wore white; the sight-seers
from the surrounding towns and villages wore red, and green marked the heathen hailing from
afar, who came laden with tribute and presents. The four colors corresponded to the four seasons.
In the autumn the sky is brilliantly blue; in winter the white snow falls; the color of spring
is green like the ocean, because it is the season favorable to voyages, and red is the color
of summer, when the fruits grow red and ripe. (75)

As the public spectacles were executed with pomp and splendor, so the king's table was royally
sumptuous. Regardless of season and climate, it was always laden with the delicacies of all
parts of the globe. Game and poultry, even of such varieties as were unknown in Palestine,
were not lacking, and daily there came a gorgeous bird from Barbary and settled down before
the king's seat at the table. The Scriptures tell us of great quantities of food required by
Solomon's household, and yet it was not all that was needed. What the Bible mentions, covers
only the accessories, such as spices and the minor ingredients. The real needs were far greater,
as may be judged from the custom that all of Solomon's thousand wives arranged a banquet daily,
each in the hope of having the king dine with her. (76)

  LESSONS IN HUMILITY

Great and powerful as Solomon was, and wise and just, still occasions were not lacking to bring
home to him the truth that the wisest and mightiest of mortals may not indulge in pride and
arrogance.

Solomon had a precious piece of tapestry, sixty miles square, on which he flew through the
air so swiftly that he could eat breakfast in Damascus and supper in Media. To carry out his
orders he had at his beck and call Asaph ben Berechiah (77) among men, Ramirat among demons,
the lion among beasts, and the eagle among birds. Once it happened that pride possessed Solomon
while he was sailing through the air on his carpet, and he said: "There is none like unto me
in the world, upon whom God has bestowed sagacity, wisdom, intelligence, and knowledge, besides
making me the ruler of the world." The same instant the air stirred, and forty thousand men
dropped from the magic carpet. The king ordered the wind to cease from blowing, with the word:
"Return!" Whereupon the wind: "If thou wilt return to God, and subdue thy pride, I, too, will
return." The king realized his transgression.

On one occasion he strayed into the valley of the ants in the course of his wanderings. He
heard one ant order all the others to withdraw, to avoid being crushed by the armies of Solomon.
The king halted and summoned the ant that had spoken. She told him that she was the queen of
the ants, and she gave her reasons for the order of withdrawal. Solomon wanted to put a question
to the ant queen, but she refused to answer unless the king took her up and placed her on his
hand. He acquiesced, and then he put his question: "Is there any one greater than I am in all
the world?" "Yes," said the ant.

Solomon: "Who?"

Ant: "I am."

Solomon: "How is that possible?"

Ant: "Were I not greater than thou, God would not have led thee hither to put me on thy hand."

Exasperated, Solomon threw her to the ground, and said: "Thou knowest who I am? I am Solomon,
the son of David."

Not at all intimidated, the ant reminded the king of his earthly origin, and admonished him
to humility, and the king went off abashed.

Next he came to a magnificent building, into which he sought to enter in vain; he could find
no door leading into it. After long search the demons came upon an eagle seven hundred years
old, and he, unable to give them any information, sent him to his nine hundred years old brother,
whose eyrie was higher than his own, and who would probably be in a position to advise them.
But he in turn directed them to go to his still older brother. His age counted thirteen hundred
years, and he had more knowledge than himself. This oldest one of the eagles reported that
he remembered having heard his father say there was a door on the west side, but it was covered
up by the dust of the ages that had passed since it was last used. So it turned out to be.
They found an old iron door with the inscription: "We, the dwellers in this palace, for many
years lived in comfort and luxury; then, forced by hunger, we ground pearls into flour instead
of wheat   but to no avail, and so, when we were about to die, we bequeathed this palace to
the eagles." A second statement contained a detailed description of the wonderful palace, and
mentioned where the keys for the different chambers were to be found. Following the directions
on the door, Solomon inspected the remarkable building, whose apartments were made of pearls
and precious stones. Inscribed on the doors he found the following three wise proverbs, dealing
with the vanity of all earthly things, and admonishing men to be humble:

1. O son of man, let not time deceive thee; thou must wither away, and leave thy place, to
rest in the bosom of the earth.

2. Haste thee not, move slowly, for the world is taken from one and bestowed upon another.

3. Furnish thyself with food for the journey, prepare thy meal while daylight lasts, for thou
wilt not remain on earth forever, and thou knowest not the day of thy death. (78)

In one of the chambers, Solomon saw a number of statues, among them one that looked as though
alive. When he approached it, it called out in a loud voice: "Hither, ye satans, Solomon has
come to undo you." Suddenly there arose great noise and tumult among the statues. Solomon pronounced
the Name, and quiet was restored. The statues were overthrown, and the sons of the satans ran
into the sea and were drowned. From the throat of the lifelike statue he drew a silver plate
inscribed with characters which he could not decipher, but a youth from the desert told the
king: "These letters are Greek, and the words mean: 'I, Shadad ben Ad, ruled over a thousand
thousand provinces, rode on a thousand thousand horses, had a thousand thousand kings under
me, and slew a thousand thousand heroes, and when the Angel of Death approached me, I was powerless.'"
(79)

  ASMODEUS

When Solomon in his wealth and prosperity grew unmindful of his God, and, contrary to the injunctions
laid down for kings in the Torah, multiplied wives unto himself, and craved the possession
of many horses and much gold, the Book of Deuteronomy stepped before God and said: "Lo, O Lord
of the world, Solomon is seeking to remove a Yod from out of me, (80) for Thou didst write:
'The king shall not multiply horses unto himself, nor shall he multiply wives to himself, neither
shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold'; but Solomon has acquired many horses,
many wives, and much silver and gold." Hereupon God said: "As thou livest, Solomon and a hundred
of his kind shall be annihilated ere a single one of thy letters shall be obliterated." (81)

The charge made against Solomon was soon followed by consequences. He had to pay heavily for
his sins. It came about in this way: While Solomon was occupied with the Temple, he had great
difficulty in devising ways of fitting the stone from the quarry into the building, for the
Torah explicitly prohibits the use of iron tools in erecting an altar. The scholars told him
that Moses had used the shamir, (82) the stone that splits rocks, to engrave the names of the
tribes on the precious stones of the ephod worn by the high priest. Solomon's demons could
give him no information as to where the shamir could be found. They surmised, however, that
Asmodeus, (83) king of demons, was in possession of the secret, and they told Solomon the name
of the mountain on which Asmodeus dwelt, and described also his manner of life. On this mountain
there was a well from which Asmodeus obtained his drinking water. He closed it up daily with
a large rock, and sealed it before going to heaven, whither he went every day, to take part
in the discussions in the heavenly academy. Thence he would descend again to earth in order
to be present, though invisible, (84) at the debates in the earthly houses of learning. Then,
after investigating the seal on the well to ascertain if it had been tampered with, he drank
of the water.

Solomon sent his chief man, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, to capture Asmodeus. For this purpose
he provided him with a chain, the ring on which the Name of God was engraved, a bundle of wool,
and a skin of wine. Benaiah drew the water from the well through a hole bored from below, and,
after having stopped up the hole with the wool, he filled the well with wine from above. When
Asmodeus descended from heaven, to his astonishment he found wine instead of water in the well,
although everything seemed untouched. At first he would not drink of it, and cited the Bible
verses that inveigh against wine, to inspire himself with moral courage. At length Asmodeus
succumbed to his consuming thirst, and drank till his senses were overpowered, and he fell
into a deep sleep. Benaiah, watching him from a tree, then came, and drew the chain about Asmodeus'
neck. The demon, on awakening, tried to free himself, but Benaiah called to him: "The Name
of thy Lord is upon thee." Though Asmodeus now permitted himself to be led off unresistingly,
he acted most peculiarly on the way to Solomon. He brushed against a palm-tree and uprooted
it; he knocked against a house and overturned it; and when, at the request of a poor woman,
he was turned aside from her hut, he broke a bone. He asked with grim humor: "Is it not written,
'A soft tongue breaketh the bone?'" A blind man going astray he set in the right path, and
to a drunkard he did a similar kindness. He wept when a wedding party passed them, and laughed
at a man who asked his shoemaker to make him shoes to last for seven years, and at a magician
who was publicly showing his skill.

Having finally arrived at the end of the journey, Asmodeus, after several days of waiting,
was led before Solomon, who questioned him about his strange conduct on the journey. Asmodeus
answered that he judged persons and things according to their real character, and not according
to their appearance in the eyes of human beings. He cried when he saw the wedding company,
because he knew the bridegroom had not a month to live, and he laughed at him who wanted shoes
to last seven years, because the man would not own them for seven days, also at the magician
who pretended to disclose secrets, because he did not know that a buried treasure lay under
his very feet; the blind man whom he set in the right path was one of the "perfect pious,"
and he wanted to be kind to him; on the other hand, the drunkard to whom he did a similar kindness
was known in heaven as a very wicked man, but he happened to have done a good deed once, and
he was rewarded accordingly.

Asmodeus told Solomon that the shamir was given by God to the Angel of the Sea, and that Angel
entrusted none with the shamir except the moor-hen, (85) which had taken an oath to watch the
shamir carefully. The moor-hen takes the shamir with her to mountains which are not inhabited
by men, splits them by means of the shamir, and injects seeds, which grow and cover the naked
rocks, and then they can be inhabited. Solomon sent one of his servants to seek the nest of
the bird and lay a piece of glass over it. When the moor-hen came and could not reach her young,
she flew away and fetched the shamir and placed it on the glass. Then the man shouted, and
so terrified the bird that she dropped the shamir and flew away. By this means the man obtained
possession of the coveted shamir, and bore it to Solomon. But the moor-hen was so distressed
at having broken her oath to the Angel of the Sea that she committed suicide.

Although Asmodeus was captured only for the purpose of getting the shamir, Solomon nevertheless
kept him after the completion of the Temple. One day the king told Asmodeus that he did not
understand wherein the greatness of the demons lay, if their king could be kept in bonds by
a mortal. Asmodeus replied, that if Solomon would remove his chains and lend him the magic
ring, he would prove his own greatness. Solomon agreed. The demon stood before him with one
wing touching heaven and the other reaching to the earth. Snatching up Solomon, who had parted
with his protecting ring, he flung him four hundred parasangs away from Jerusalem, and then
palmed himself off as the king.

  SOLOMON AS BEGGAR

Banished from his home, deprived of his realm, Solomon wandered about in far-off lands, among
strangers, begging his daily bread. Nor did his humiliation end there; people thought him a
lunatic, because he never tired of assuring them that he was Solomon, Judah's great and mighty
king. Naturally that seemed a preposterous claim to the people. (86) The lowest depth of despair
he reached, however, when he met some one who recognized him. The recollections and associations
that stirred within him then made his present misery almost unendurable.

It happened (87) that once on his peregrinations he met an old acquaintance, a rich and well-considered
man, who gave a sumptuous banquet in honor of Solomon. At the meal his host spoke to Solomon
constantly of the magnificence and splendor he had once seen with his own eyes at the court
of the king. These reminiscences moved the king to tears, and he wept so bitterly that, when
he rose from the banquet, he was satiated, not with the rich food, but with salt tears. The
following day it again happened that Solomon met an acquaintance of former days, this time
a poor man, who nevertheless entreated Solomon to do him the honor and break bread under his
roof. All that the poor man could offer his distinguished guest was a meagre dish of greens.
But he tried in every way to assuage the grief that oppressed Solomon. He said: "O my lord
and king, God hath sworn unto David He would never let the royal dignity depart from his house,
but it is the way of God to reprove those He loves if they sin. Rest assured, He will restore
thee in good time to thy kingdom." These words of his poor host were more grateful to Solomon's
bruised heart than the banquet the rich man had prepared for him.

For three long years Solomon journeyed about, begging his way from city to city, and from country
to country, atoning for the three (88) sins of his life by which he had set aside the commandment
laid upon kings in Deuteronomy   not to multiply horses, and wives, and silver and gold. At
the end of that time, God took mercy upon him for the sake of his father David, and for the
sake of the pious princess Naamah, the daughter of the Ammonite king, destined by God to be
the ancestress of the Messiah. The time was approaching when she was to become the wife of
Solomon (89) and reign as queen in Jerusalem. God therefore led the royal wanderer to the capital
city of Ammon. (90) Solomon took service as an underling with the cook in the royal household,
and he proved himself so proficient in the culinary art that the king of Ammon raised him to
the post of chief cook. Thus he came under the notice of the king's daughter Naamah, who fell
in love with her father's cook. In vain her parents endeavored to persuade her to choose a
husband befitting her rank. Not even the king's threat to have her and her beloved executed
availed to turn her thoughts away from Solomon. The Ammonite king had the lovers taken to a
barren desert, in the hope that they would die of starvation there. Solomon and his wife wandered
through the desert until they came to a city situated by the sea-shore. They purchased a fish
to stave off death. When Naamah prepared the fish, she found in its belly the magic ring belonging
to her husband, which he had given to Asmodeus, and which, thrown into the sea by the demon,
had been swallowed by a fish. Solomon recognized his ring, put it on his finger, and in the
twinkling of an eye he transported himself to Jerusalem. Asmodeus, who had been posing as King
Solomon during the three years, he drove out, and himself ascended the throne again.

Later on he cited the king of Ammon before his tribunal, and called him to account for the
disappearance of the cook and the cook's wife, accusing him of having killed them. The king
of Ammon protested that he had not killed, but only banished them. Then Solomon had the queen
appear, and to his great astonishment and still greater joy the king of Ammon recognized his
daughter. (91)

Solomon succeeded in regaining his throne only after undergoing many hardships. The people
of Jerusalem considered him a lunatic, because he said that he was Solomon. After some time,
the members of the Sanhedrin noticed his peculiar behavior, and they investigated the matter.
They found that a long time had passed since Benaiah, the confidant of the king, had been permitted
to enter the presence of the usurper. Furthermore the wives of Solomon and his mother Bath-sheba
informed them that the behavior of the king had completely changed   it was not befitting royalty
and in no respect like Solomon's former manner. It was also very strange that the king never
by any chance allowed his foot to be seen, for fear, of course, of betraying his demon origin.
(92) The Sanhedrin, therefore, gave the king's magic ring to the wandering beggar who called
himself King Solomon, and had him appear before the pretender on the throne. As soon as Asmodeus
caught sight of the true king protected by his magic ring, he flew away precipitately.

Solomon did not escape unscathed. The sight of Asmodeus in all his forbidding ugliness had
so terrified him that henceforth he surrounded his couch at night with all the valiant heroes
among the people. (93)

  THE COURT OF SOLOMON

As David had been surrounded by great scholars and heroes of repute, so the court of Solomon
was the gathering-place of the great of his people. The most important of them all doubtless
was Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, who had no peer for learning and piety either in the time
of the first or the second Temple. (94) In his capacity as the chancellor of Solomon, he was
the object of the king's special favor. He was frequently invited to be the companion of the
king in his games of chess. The wise king naturally was always the winner. One day Solomon
left the chess-board for a moment, Benaiah used his absence to remove one of the king's chess-men,
and the king lost the game. Solomon gave much thought to the occurrence. He came to the conclusion
that his chancellor had dealt dishonestly with him, and he was determined to give him a lesson.

Some days later Solomon noticed two suspicious characters hanging about the palace. Acting
at once upon an idea that occurred to him, he put on the clothes of one of his servants and
joined the two suspects. The three of them, he proposed, should make the attempt to rob the
royal palace, and he drew forth a key which would facilitate their entrance. While the thieves
were occupied in gathering booty, the king roused his servants, and the malefactors were taken
into custody. Next morning Solomon appeared before the Sanhedrin, which was presided over by
Benaiah (95) at the time, and he desired to know from the court what punishment was meted out
to a thief. Benaiah, seeing no delinquents before him, and unwilling to believe that the king
would concern himself about the apprehension of thieves, was convinced that Solomon was bent
on punishing him for his dishonest play. He fell at the feet of the king, confessed his guilt,
and begged his pardon. Solomon was pleased to have his supposition confirmed, and also to have
Benaiah acknowledge his wrong-doing. he assured him he harbored no evil designs against him,
and that when he asked this question of the Sanhedrin, he had had real thieves in mind, who
had broken into the palace during the night. (96)

Another interesting incident happened, in which Benaiah played a part. The king of Persia was
very ill, and his physician told him he could be cured by nothing but the milk of a lioness.
The king accordingly sent a deputation bearing rich presents to Solomon, the only being in
the world who might in his wisdom discover means to obtain lion's milk. Solomon charged Benaiah
to fulfil the Persian king's wish. Benaiah took a number of kids, and repaired to a lion's
den. Daily he threw a kid to the lioness, and after some time the beasts became familiar with
him, and finally he could approach the lioness close enough to draw milk from her udders.

On the way back to the Persian king the physician who had recommended the milk cure dreamed
a dream. All the organs of his body, his hands, feet, eyes, mouth, and tongue, were quarrelling
with one another, each claiming the greatest share of credit in procuring the remedy for the
Persian monarch. When the tongue set forth its own contribution to the cause of the king's
service, the other organs rejected its claim as totally unfounded. The physician did not forget
the dream, and when he appeared before the king, he spoke: "Here is the dog's milk which we
went to fetch for you." The king, enraged, ordered the physician to be hanged, because he had
brought the milk of a bitch instead of the milk of a lion's dam. During the preliminaries to
the execution, all the limbs and organs of the physician began to tremble, whereupon the tongue
said: "Did I not tell you that you all are of no good? If you will acknowledge my superiority,
I shall even now save you from death." They all made the admission it demanded, and the physician
requested the executioner to take him to the king. Once in the presence of his master, he begged
him as a special favor to drink of the milk he had brought. The king granted his wish, recovered
from his sickness, and dismissed the physician in peace. So it came about that all the organs
of the body acknowledge the supremacy of the tongue. (97)

Besides Benaiah, Solomon's two scribes, Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, deserve mention.
They both met their death in a most peculiar way. Solomon once upon a time noticed a care-worn
expression on the countenance of the Angel of Death. When he asked the reason, he received
the answer, that he had been charged with the task of bringing the two scribes to the next
world. Solomon was desirous of stealing a march upon the Angel of Death, as well as keeping
his secretaries alive. He ordered the demons to carry Elihoreph and Ahijah to Luz, the only
spot on earth in which the Angel of Death has no power. (98) In a jiffy, the demons had done
his bidding, but the two secretaries expired at the very moment of reaching the gates of Luz.
Next day, the Angel of Death appeared before Solomon in very good humor, and said to him: "Thou
didst transport those two men to the very spot in which I wanted them." The fate destined for
them was to die at the gates of Luz, and the Angel of Death had been at a loss how to get them
there. (99)

A most interesting incident in Solomon's own family circle is connected with one of his daughters.
She was of extraordinary beauty, and in the stars he read that she was to marry an extremely
poor youth. To prevent the undesirable union, Solomon had a high tower erected in the sea,
and to this he sent his daughter. Seventy eunuchs were to guard her, and a huge quantity of
food was stored in the tower for her use.

The poor youth whom fate had appointed to be her husband was travelling one cold night. He
did not know where to rest his head, when he espied the rent carcass of an ox lying in the
field. In this he lay down to keep warm. When he was ensconced in it, there came a large bird,
which took the carcass, bore it, together with the youth stretched out in it, to the roof of
the tower in which the princess lived, and, settling down there, began to devour the flesh
of the ox. In the morning, the princess, according to her wont, ascended to the roof to look
out upon the sea, and she caught sight of the youth. She asked him who he was, and who had
brought him thither? He told her that he was a Jew from Accho, and had been carried to the
tower by a bird. She showed him to a chamber, where he could wash and anoint himself, and array
himself in a fresh garb. Then it appeared that he possessed unusual beauty. Besides, he was
a scholar of great attainments and of acute mind. So it came about that the princess fell in
love with him. She asked him whether he would have her to wife, and he assented gladly. He
opened one of his veins, and wrote the marriage contract with his own blood. Then he pronounced
the formula of betrothal, taking God and the two archangels Michael and Gabriel as witnesses,
and she became his wife, legally married to him.

After some time the eunuchs noticed that she was pregnant. Their questions elicited the suspected
truth from the princess, and they sent for Solomon. His daughter admitted her marriage, and
the king, though he recognized in her husband the poor man predicted in the constellations,
yet he thanked God for his son-in-law, distinguished no less for learning than for his handsome
person. (100)

THE DIVISION OF THE KINGDOM

The division of the kingdom into Judah and Israel, which took place soon after the death of
Solomon, had cast its shadow before. When Solomon, on the day after his marriage with the Egyptian
princess, disturbed the regular course of the Temple service by sleeping late with his head
on the pillow under which lay the key of the Temple, Jeroboam with eighty thousand Ephraimites
approached the king and publicly called him to account for is negligence. God administered
a reproof to Jeroboam; "Why dost thou reproach a prince of Israel? As thou livest, thou shalt
have a taste of his rulership, and thou wilt see thou are not equal to its responsibilities." (1)

On another occasion a clash occurred between Jeroboam and Solomon. The latter ordered his men
to close the openings David had made in the city wall to facilitate the approach of the pilgrims
to Jerusalem. This forced them all the walk through the gates and pay toll. The tax thus collected
Solomon gave to his wife, the daughter of Pharaoh, as pin-money. Indignant at this, Jeroboam
questioned the king about it in public. In other ways, too, he failed to pay Solomon the respect
due to royal position, as his father before him, Sheba the son of Bichri, had rebelled against
David, misled by signs and tokens which he had falsely interpreted as pointing to his own elevation
to royal dignity, when in reality they concerned themselves with his son. (2)

It was when Jeroboam was preparing to depart from Jerusalem forever, in order to escape the
dangers to which Solomon's displeasure exposed him, (3) that Ahijah of Shilo met him with the
Divine tidings of his elevation to the kingship. The prophet Ahijah, of the tribe of Levi,
was venerable, not only by reason of his hoary age,   his birth occurred at least sixty years
before the exodus from Egypt, (4)   but because his piety was so profound that a saint of the
exalted standing of Simon ben Yohai associated Ahijah with himself. Simon once exclaimed: "My
merits and Ahijah together suffice to atone for the iniquity of all sinners from the time of
Abraham until the advent of the Messiah." (5)

 JEROBOAM

Jeroboam was the true disciple (6) of this great prophet, His doctrine was as pure as the new
garment Ahijah wore when he met Jeroboam near Jerusalem, and his learning exceeded that of
all the scholars of his time except his own teacher Ahijah alone. The prophet was in the habit
of discussing secret love with Jeroboam and subjects in the Torah whose existence was wholly
unknown to others. (7)

Had Jeroboam proved himself worthy of his high position, the length of his reign would have
equalled David's. (8) It was his pride that led him into destruction. He set up the golden
calves as objects to be worshipped by the people, in order to wean them from their habit of
going on pilgrimages to Jerusalem. He knew that in the Temple only members of the royal house
of David were privileged to sit down. No exception would be made in favor of Jeroboam, and
so he would have to stand while Rehoboam would be seated. Rather than appear in public as the
subordinate of the Judean king, he introduced the worship of idols, which secured him full
royal prerogatives.

In the execution of his plan he proceeded with great cunning, and his reputation as a profound
scholar and pious saint stood him in good stead. This was his method: He seated an impious
man next to a pious man, and then said to each couple: "Will you put your signature to anything
I intend to do?" The two would give an affirmative answer. "Do you want me as king?" he would
then ask, only to receive and affirmative answer again. "And you will do whatever I order?"
he continued. "Yes," was the reply. "I am to infer, then, that you will even pay worship to
idols if I command it?" said Jeroboam. "God forbid !" the pious member of the couple would
exclaim, whereupon his impious companion, who was in league with the king, would turn upon
him: "Canst thou really suppose for an instant that a man like Jeroboam would serve idols?
He only wishes to put our loyalty to the test." Through such machinations he succeeded in obtaining
the signatures of the most pious, even the signature of the prophet Ahijah. Now Jeroboam had
the people is his power. He could exact the vilest deeds from them. (9)

So entrenched, Jeroboam brought about the division between Judah and Israel, a consummation
which his father, Sheba the son of Bichri, had not been able to compass under David, because
God desired to have the Temple erected before the split occurred. (10) Not yet satisfied, Jeroboam
sought to involve the Ten Tribes in a war against Judah and Jerusalem. But the people of the
northern kingdom refused to enter into hostilities with their brethren, and with the ruler
of their brethren, a descendant of David. Jeroboam appealed to the elders of the Israelites,
and they referred him to the Danites, the most efficient of their warriors; but they swore
by the head of Dan, the ancestor of their tribe, that they would never consent to shed blood
of their brethren. They were even on the point of rising against Jeroboam, and the clash between
them and the followers of Jeroboam was prevented only because God prompted the Danites to leave
Palestine.

Their first plan was to journey to Egypt and take possession of the land. They gave it up when
their princes reminded them of the Biblical prohibition (11) against dwelling in Egypt. Likewise
they were restrained from attacking the Edomites, Ammonites, and Moabites, for the Torah commands
considerate treatment of them. Finally they decided to go to Egypt, but not to stay there,
only to pass through to Ethiopia. The Egyptians were in great terror of the Danites, and their
hardiest warriors occupied the roads travelled by them. Arrived in Ethiopia, the Danites slew
a part of the population, and exacted tribute from the rest. (12)

The departure of the Danites relieved Judah from the apprehended invasion by Jeroboam, but
danger arose from another quarter. Shishak, (13) the ruler of Egypt, who was the father-in-law
of Solomon, came to Jerusalem and demanded his daughter's jointure. He carried off the throne
of Solomon, (14) and also the treasure which the Israelites had taken from the Egyptians at
the time of the exodus. So the Egyptian money returned to its source. (15)

 THE TWO ABIJAHS

Jeroboam did not entirely forego his plan of a campaign against Judah, but it was not executed
until Abijah had succeeded his father Rehoboam on the throne of Jerusalem. The Judean king
was victorious. However, he could not long enjoy the fruits of his victory. Shortly after occurred
his death, brought on by his own crimes. In his war against Jeroboam he had indulged in excessive
cruelty; he ordered the corpses of the enemy to be mutilated, and permitted them to be buried
only after putrefaction had set in. Such savagery was all the more execrable as it prevented
many widows from entering into a second marriage. Mutilating the corpses had made identification
impossible, and so it was left doubtful whether their husbands were among the dead.

Moreover, Abijah used most disrespectful language about the prophet Abijah the Shilonite; he
called him a "son of Belial" in his address to the people on Mount Zemaraim. That in itself
merited severe punishment. Finally, his zeal for true worship of God, which Abijah had urged
as the reason of the war between himself and Jeroboam, cooled quickly. When he obtained possession
of Beth-el, he failed to do away with the golden calves. (16)

In this respect his namesake, the Israelitish king Abijah, the son of Jeroboam, was by far
his superior. By removing the guards stationed at the frontier, he bade defiance to the command
of his father, who had decreed the death penalty for pilgrimages to Jerusalem. "What?"

 "The whiskey.

We gave you some whiskey; you were very faint and you felt chilled, so we gave you some."

"Out..of...the...black
bottle?"

"Out of the black bottle."

Another silence.

"I think I would like to drink some coffee. Seeing as how he saved my life, I don't think he would
deny me that."

"Well, I'll be, there is a little left." At once, her father got up and returned with a tin
cup containing the requested coffee. It could have been a part of Miss Amy's rapid convalescence,
or it could have been due to her debilitated condition, but no matter which reason, she did
not comment on the tin cup. For a bit, she lay looking about the cabin. The light of the fire
made the colors of the bark floor and thatching seem luxurious, even if it did not look quite
so luxurious in the light of day. The spicy aroma of the wood permeated the room, which Miss
Amy welcomed gladly, as opposed to the musty smell she originally expected. She reminisced
about how it was this smell that helped her tolerate an otherwise oily, greasy picnic. Her
father, seeing her raise herself on her elbow, continued with confidence, "Darling, considering
you sat up for a bit, it is possible that you have the strength right
now to go down to the wagon with me. It would be a timesaver.

In
an instant, Amy was laying down again. "Papa, what is going through
your head? Honestly, after the shock I went through, I doubt I can
stand, let alone walk. But...well..." she paused, her voice like a
wounded bird, "I might just be able to crawl a little bit at a time,
if you and Mr. Waterhouse would be willing to help me."

"Of course,
Amy. Tenbrook, who carried you up here, will carry you back down.
I just thought that since there are steps, they may be coming now.
No!--only HE."

The crackling noise, coming from the underbrush, foretold
the darkening of the open cabin door. The tall figure was that of
the mountaineer's. Then
it was that God resolved that the descendants of Asa should perish simultaneously with the
descendants of Omri. This doom was accomplished when Jehu killed the king of Judah on account
of his friendship and kinship with Joram the king of Samaria. (24)

 JEHOSHAPHAT AND AHAB

The successors of Omri and Asa, each in his way, were worthy of their fathers. Jehoshaphat,
the son of Asa, was very wealthy. The treasures which his father had sent to the Aramean ruler
reverted to him in consequence of his victory over the Ammonites, themselves the conquerors
of the Arameans, whom they had despoiled of their possessions. (25) His power was exceedingly
great; each division of his army counted no less than one hundred and sixty thousand warriors.
(26) Yet rich and powerful as he was, he was so modest that he refused to don his royal apparel
when he went to the house of the prophet Elisha to consult him; he appeared before him in the
attire of one of the people. (27) Unlike his father, who had little consideration for scholars,
Jehoshaphat was particularly gracious toward them. When a scholar appeared before him, he arose,
hastened to meet him, and kissing and embracing him, greeted him with "Rabbi, Rabbi!" (28)

Jehoshaphat concerned himself greatly about the purity and sanctification of the Temple. He
was the author of the ordinance forbidding any one to ascend the Temple mount whose term of
uncleanness had not expired, even though he had taken the ritual bath. (29) His implicit trust
in God made him a complete contrast to his skeptical father. He turned to God and implored
His help when to human reason help seemed an utter impossibility. In the war with the Arameans,
an enemy held his sword at Jehoshaphat's very throat, ready to deal the fatal blow, but the
king entreated help of God, and it was granted. (30)

In power and wealth, Ahab, king of Samaria, outstripped his friend Jehoshaphat, for Ahab is
one of that small number of kings who have ruled over the whole world. (31) No less than two
hundred and fifty-two kingdoms acknowledged his dominion. (32) As for his wealth, it was so
abundant that each of his hundred and forty children possessed several ivory palaces, summer
and winter residences. (33) But what gives Ahab his prominence among the Jewish kings is neither
his power nor his wealth, but his sinful conduct. For him the gravest transgressions committed
by Jeroboam were slight peccadilloes. At his order the gates of Samaria bore the inscription:
"Ahab denies the God of Israel." He was so devoted to idolatry, to which he was led astray
by his wife Jezebel, that the fields of Palestine were full of idols. But he was not wholly
wicked, he possessed some good qualities. He was liberal toward scholars, and he showed great
reverence for the Torah, which he studied zealously. When Ben-hadad exacted all he possessed
his wealth, his wives, his children   he acceded to his demands regarding everything except
the Torah; that he refused peremptorily to surrender. That such a skill or potential exists cannot
help but evoke, by sheer logicality, the verdict which all frank and reasoning persons have
reached, that is to say: that the Supreme Being has generated a deposit for access by every
aptitude, or capability, which He mandated be engineered and provided. You may be asking, "So
what?". (35) The same seer (36) admonished him not
to deal gently with Ben-hadad. God's word to him had been: "Know that I had to set many a pitfall
and trap to deliver him into thy hand. If thou lettest him escape, thy life will be forfeit
for his." (37)

Nevertheless the disastrous end of Ahab is not to be ascribed to his disregard of the prophet's
warning   for he finally liberated Ben-hahad,   but chiefly to the murder of his kinsman Naboth,
whose execution on the charge of treason he had ordered, so that he might put himself in possession
of Naboth's wealth. (38) His victim was a pious man, and in the habit of going on pilgrimages
to Jerusalem on the festivals. As he was a great singer, his presence in the Holy City attracted
many other pilgrims thither. Once Naboth failed to go on his customary pilgrimage. Then it
was that his false conviction took place   a very severe punishment for the transgression,
but not wholly unjustifiable. (39) Under Jehoshaphat's influence and counsel, Ahab did penance
for his crime, and the punishment God meted out to him was thereby mitigated to the extent
that his dynasty was not cut off from the throne at this death. (40) In the heavenly court
of justice, (41) at Ahab's trial, the accusing witnesses and his defenders exactly balanced
each other in number and statements, until the spirit of Naboth appeared and turned the scale
against Ahab. The spirit of Naboth it had been, too, that had let astray the prophets of Ahab,
making them all use the very same words in prophesying a victory at Ramothgilead. This literal
unanimity aroused Jehoshaphat's suspicion, and caused him to ask for "a prophet of the Lord,"
for the rule is: "The same thought is revealed to many prophets, but no two prophets express
it in the same words." (42) Jehoshaphat's mistrust was justified by the issue of war. Ahab
was slain in a miraculous way by Naaman, at the time only a common soldier of the rank and
file. God permitted Naaman's missile to penetrate Ahab's armor, though the latter was harder
than the former. (43)

The mourning for Ahab was so great that the memory of it reached posterity. (44) The funeral
procession was unusually impressive; no less than thirty-six thousand warriors, their shoulders
bared, marched before his bier. (45) Ahab is one of the few in Israel who have no portion in
the world to come. (46) He dwells in the fifth division of the nether world, which is under
the supervision of the angel Oniel. However, he is exempt from the tortures inflicted upon
his heathen associates. (47)

 JEZEBEL

Wicked as Ahab was, his wife Jezebel was incomparably worse. Indeed, she is in great part the
cause of his suffering, and Ahab realized it. Once Rabbi Levi expounded the Scriptural verse
in which the iniquity of Ahab and the influence of his wife over him are discussed, dwelling
upon the first half for two months. Ahab visited him in a dream, and reproached him with expatiating
on the first half of the verse to the exclusion of the latter half. Thereupon the Rabbi took
the second half of the verse as the text of his lectures for the next two months, demonstrating
all the time that Jezebel was the instigator of Ahab's sins. (48) Her misdeed are told in the
Scriptures. To those there recounted must be added her practice of attaching unchaste images
to Ahab's chariot for the purpose of stimulating his carnal desires. Therefore those parts
of his chariot were spattered with his blood when he fell at the hand of the enemy. (49) She
had her husband weighed every day, and the increase of his weight in gold she sacrificed to
the idol. (50) Jezebel was not only the daughter and the wife of a king, she was also co-regent
with her husband, the only reigning queen in Jewish history except Athaliah. (51)

Hardened sinner though Jezebel was, even she had good qualities. One of them was her capacity
for sympathy with others in joy and sorrow. Whenever a funeral cortege passed the royal palace,
Jezebel would descend and join the ranks of the mourners, and, also, when a marriage procession
went by, she took part in the merry-making in honor of the bridal couple. By way of reward
the limbs and organs with which she had executed these good deeds were left intact by the horses
that trampled her to death in the portion of Jezreel. (52)

 JORAM OF ISRAEL

Of Joram, the son of Ahab, it can only be said that he had his father's faults without his
father's virtues. Ahab was liberal, Joram miserly, nay, he even indulged in usurious practices.
From Obadiah, the pious protector of the prophets in hiding, he exacted a high rate of interest
on the money needed for their support. As a consequence, at his death he fell pierced between
his arms, the arrow going out at his heart, for he had stretched out his arms to receive usury,
and had hardened his heart against compassion. (53) In his reign only one event deserves mention,
his campaign against Moab, undertaken in alliance with the kings of Judah and Edom, and ending
with a splendid victory won by the allied kings. Joram and his people, it need hardly be said,
failed to derive the proper lesson from the war. Their disobedience to God's commands went
on as before. The king of Moab, on the other hand, in his way sought to come nearer to God.
He assembled his astrologers and inquired of them, why it was that the Moabites, successful
in their warlike enterprises against other nations, could not measure up to the standard of
the Israelites. They explained that God was gracious to Israel, because his ancestor Abraham
had been ready to sacrifice Isaac at His bidding. Then the Moabite king reasoned, that if God
set so high a value upon mere good intention, how much greater would be the reward for its
actual execution, and he, who ordinarily was a sun worshipper, proceeded to sacrifice his son,
the successor to the throne, to the God of Israel. God said: "The heathen do not know Me, and
their wrong-doing arises from ignorance; but you, Israelites, know Me, and yet you act rebelliously
toward Me." (54)

As a result of the seven years' famine, conditions in Samaria were frightful during the great
part of Joram's reign. In the first year everything stored in the houses was eaten up. In the
second, the people supported themselves with what they could scrape together in the fields.
The flesh of the clean animals sufficed for the third year; in the fourth the sufferers resorted
to the unclean animals; in the fifth, the reptiles and insects; and in the sixth the monstrous
thing happened that women crazed by hunger consumed their own children as food. But the acme
of distress was reached in the seventh year, when men sought to gnaw the flesh from their own
bones. (55) To these occurrences the prophecies of Joel apply, for he lived in the awful days
of the famine in Joram's reign.

Luckily, God revealed to Joel at the same time how Israel would be rescued from the famine.
The winter following the seven years of dearth brought no relief, for the rain held back until
the first day of the month of Nisan. When it began to fall, the prophet said to the people,
"Go forth and sow seed!" But they remonstrated with him, "Shall one who hath saved a measure
of wheat or two measures of barely not use his store for food and live, rather than for seed
and die?" But the prophet urged them, "Nay, go forth and sow seed." And a miracle happened.
In the ant hills and mouse holes, they found enough grain for seed, and they cast it upon the
ground on the second, the third, and the fourth day of Nisan. On the fifth day of the month
rain fell again. Eleven days later the grain was ripe, and the offering of the 'Omer could
be brought at the appointed time, on the sixteenth of the month. Of this the Psalmist was thinking
when he said, "They that sow in tears shall reap in joy." (56)

ELIJAH BEFORE HIS TRANSLATION

The Biblical account of the prophet Elijah, (1) of his life and work during the reigns of Ahab
and his son Joram, gives but a faint idea of a personage whose history begins with Israel's
sojourn in Egypt, and will end only when Israel, under the leadership of the Messiah, shall
have taken up his abode again in Palestine.

The Scripture tells us only the name of Elijah's home, (2) but it must be added that he was
a priest, identical with Phinehas, (3) the priest zealous for the honor of God, who distinguished
himself on the journey through the desert, and played a prominent role again in the time of
the Judges. (4)

Elijah's first appearance in the period of the Kings was his meeting with Ahab in the house
of Hiel, the Beth-elite, the commander-in-chief of the Israelitish army, whom he was visiting
to condole with him for the loss of his sons. God Himself had charged the prophet to offer
sympathy to Hiel, whose position demanded that honor be paid him. Elijah at first refused to
seek out the sinner who had violated the Divine injunction against rebuilding Jericho, for
he said that the blasphemous talk of such evil-doers always called forth his rage. Thereupon
God promised Elijah that fulfilment should attend whatever imprecation might in his wrath escape
him against the godless for their unholy speech. As the prophet entered the general's house,
he heard Hiel utter these words: "Blessed be the Lord God of the pious, who grants fulfilment
to the words of the pious." Hiel thus acknowledged that he had been justly afflicted with Joshua's
curse against him who should rebuild Jericho.

Ahab mockingly asked him: "Was not Moses greater than Joshua, and did he not say that God would
let no rain descend upon the earth, if Israel served and worshipped idols? There is not an
idol known to which I do not pay homage, yet we enjoy all that is goodly and desirable. Dost
thou believe that if the words of Moses remain unfulfilled, the words of Joshua will come true?"
In pursuance of His promise, God could not but execute the words of Elijah, and neither dew
nor rain watered the land. (5)

A famine ensued, and Ahab sought to wreak his vengeance upon the prophet. To escape the king's
persecutions, Elijah hid himself. He was sustained with food brought from the larder of the
pious king Jehoshaphat by ravens, (6) which at the same time would not approach near to the
house of the iniquitous Ahab. (7)

God, who has compassion even upon the impious, tried to induce the prophet to release Him from
His promise. To influence him He made the brook run dry (8) whence Elijah drew water for his
thirst. As this failed to soften the inflexible prophet, God resorted to the expedient of causing
him pain through the death of the son of the widow with whom Elijah was abiding, and by whom
he had been received with great honor. When her son, who was later to be known as the prophet
Jonah, (9) died, she thought God had formerly been gracious to her on account of her great
worthiness as compared with the merits of her neighbors and of the inhabitants of the city,
and now He had abandoned her, because her virtues had become as naught in the presence of the
great prophet. (10) In his distress Elijah supplicated God to revive the child. (11) Now God
had the prophet in His power. He could give heed unto Elijah's prayer only provided the prophet
released Him from the promise about a drought, for resuscitation from death is brought about
by means of dew, and this remedy was precluded so long as Elijah kept God to His word withholding
dew and rain from the earth. (12) Elijah saw there was nothing for it but to yield. However,
he first betook himself to Ahab with the purpose of overcoming the obduracy of the people,
upon whom the famine had made no impression. Manifest wonders displayed before their eyes were
to teach them wisdom. The combat between God and Baal took place on Carmel. The mount that
had esteemed itself the proper place for the greatest event in Israelitish history, the revelation
of the law, was compensated, by the many miracles now performed upon it, for its disappointment
at Sinai's having been preferred to it. (13)

The first wonder occurred in connection with the choice of the bullocks. According to Elijah's
arrangement with Ahab, one was to be sacrificed to God, and then one to Baal. A pair to twins,
raised together, were brought before the contestants, and it was decided by lot which belonged
to God and which to Baal. Elijah had no difficulty with his offering; quickly he led it to
his altar. But all the priests of Baal, eight hundred and fifty in number, could not make their
victim stir a foot. When Elijah began to speak persuasively to the bullock of Baal, urging
it to follow the idolatrous priests, it opened its mouth and said: "We two, yonder bullock
and myself, came forth from the same womb, we took our food from the same manger, and now he
has been destined for God, as an instrument for the glorification of the Divine Name, while
I am to be used for Baal, as an instrument to enrage my Creator." Elijah urged: "Do thou but
follow the priests of Baal that they may have no excuse, and then thou wilt have a share in
that glorification of God for which my bullock will be used." The bullock: "So dost thou advise,
but I swear I will not move from the spot, unless thou with thine own hands wilt deliver me
up." Elijah thereupon led the bullock to the priests of Baal. (14)

In spite of this miracle, the priests sought to deceive the people. They undermined the altar,
and Hiel hid himself under it with the purpose of igniting a fire at the mention of the word
Baal. But God sent a serpent to kill him. (15) In vain the false priests cried and called,
Baal! Baal!   the expected flame did not shoot up. To add to the confusion of the idolaters,
God had imposed silence upon the whole world. The powers of the upper and of the nether regions
were dumb, the universe seemed deserted and desolate, as if without a living creature. If a
single sound had made itself heard, the priests would have said, "It is the voice of Baal." (16)

That all preparations might be completed in one day,   the erection of the altar, the digging
of the trench, and whatever else was necessary,   Elijah commanded the sun to stand still.
"For Joshua," he said, "thou didst stand still that Israel might conquer his enemies; now stand
thou still, neither for my sake, nor for the sake of Israel, but that the Name of God may be
exalted." And the sun obeyed his words. (17)

Toward evening Elijah summoned his disciple Elisha, and bade him pour water over his hands.
A miracle happened. Water flowed out from Elijah's fingers until the whole trench was filled.
(18) Then the prophet prayed to God to let fire descend, but in such wise that the people would
know it to be a wonder from heaven, and not think it a magician's trick. (19) He spoke: "Lord
of the world, Thou wilt send me as a messenger 'at the end of time,' but if my words do not
meet with fulfilment now, the Jews cannot be expected to believe me in the latter days." (20)
His pleading was heard on high, and fire fell from heaven upon the altar, a fire that not only
consumed what it touched, but also licked up the water. (21) Nor was that all; his prayer for
rain was also granted. Scarcely had these words dropped from his lips, "Though we have no other
merits, yet remember the sign of the covenant which the Israelites bear upon their bodies,"
when the rain fell to earth. (22)

In spite of all these miracles, the people persisted in their idolatrous ways and thoughts.
Even the seven thousand who had not bowed down unto Baal were unworthy sons of Israel, for
they paid homage to the golden calves of Jeroboam. (23)

The misdeeds of the people had swelled to such number that they could no longer reckon upon
"the merits of the fathers" to intercede for them; they had overdrawn their account. (24) When
they sank to the point of degradation at which they gave up the sign of the covenant, Elijah
could control his wrath no longer, and he accused Israel before God. (25) In the cleft of the
rock in which God had once aforetimes appeared to Moses, and revealed Himself as compassionate
and long-suffering, He now met with Elijah, (26) and conveyed to him, by various signs, that
it had been better to defend Israel than accuse him. But Elijah in his zeal for God was inexorable.
Then God commanded him to appoint Elisha as his successor, for He said: "I cannot do as thou
wouldst have me." (27) Furthermore God charged him: "Instead of accusing My children, journey
to Damascus, where the Gentiles have an idol for each day of the year. Though Israel hath thrown
down My altars and slain My prophets, what concern is it of thine?" (28)

The four phenomena that God sent before His appearance   wind, (29) earthquake, fire, and a
still small voice   were to instruct Elijah about the destiny of man. God told Elijah that
these four represent the worlds through which man must pass: the first stands for this world,
fleeting as the wind; the earthquake is the day of death, which makes the human body to tremble
and quake; fire is the tribunal in Gehenna, and the still small voice is the Last Judgment,
when there will be none but God alone. (30)

About three years (31) later, Elijah was taken up into heaven, (32) but not without first undergoing
a struggle with the Angel of Death. He refused to let Elijah enter heaven at his translation,
on the ground that he exercised jurisdiction over all mankind, Elijah not excepted. God maintained
that at the creation of heaven and earth He had explicitly ordered the Angel of Death to grant
entrance to the living prophet, but the Angel of Death insisted that by Elijah's translation
God had given just cause for complaint to all other men, who could not escape the doom of death.
Thereupon God: "Elijah is not like other men. He is able to banish thee from the world, only
thou dost not recognize his strength." With the consent of God, a combat took place between
Elijah and the Angel of Death. The prophet was victorious, and, if God had not restrained him,
he would have annihilated his opponent. Holding his defeated enemy under his feet, Elijah ascended
heavenward. (33)

In heaven he goes on living for all time. (34) There he sits recording the deeds of men (35)
and the chronicles of the world. (36) He has another office besides. He is the Psychopomp,
whose duty is to stand at the cross-ways in Paradise and guide the pious to their appointed
places; (37) who brings the souls of sinners up from Gehenna at the approach of the Sabbath,
and leads them back again to their merited punishment when the day of rest is about to depart;
and who conducts these same souls, after they have atoned for their sins, to the place of everlasting
bliss. (38)

Elijah's miraculous deeds will be better understood if we remember that he had been an angel
from the very first, even before the end of his earthly career. When God was about to create
man, Elijah said to Him: "Master of the world! If it be pleasing in Thine eyes, I will descend
to earth, and make myself serviceable to the sons of men." Then God changed his angel name,
and later, under Ahab, He permitted him to abide among men on earth, that he might convert
the world to the belief that "the Lord is God." His mission fulfilled, God took him again into
heaven, and said to him: "Be thou the guardian spirit of My children forever, and spread the
belief in Me abroad in the whole world." (39)

His angel name is Sandalphon, (40) one of the greatest and mightiest of the fiery angel host.
As such it is his duty to wreathe garlands for God out of the prayers sent aloft by Israel.
(41) Besides, he must offer up sacrifices in the invisible sanctuary, for the Temple was destroyed
only apparently; in reality, it went on existing, hidden from the sight of ordinary mortals. (42)

 AFTER HIS TRANSLATION

Elijah's removal from earth, so far being an interruption to his relations with men, rather
marks the beginning of his real activity as a helper in time of need, as a teacher and as a
guide. At first his intervention in sublunar affairs was not frequent. Seven years after his
translation, (43) he wrote a letter to the wicked king Jehoram, who reigned over Judah. The
next occasion on which he took part in an earthly occurrence was at the time of Ahasuerus,
when he did the Jews a good turn by assuming the guise of the courtier Harbonah, (44) in a
favorable moment inciting the king against Haman. (45)

It was reserved for later days, however, for Talmudic times, the golden age of the great scholars,
the Tannaim and the Amoraim, to enjoy Elijah's special vigilance as protector of the innocent,
as a friend in need, who hovers over the just and the pious, ever present to guard them against
evil or snatch them out of danger. With four strokes of his wings Elijah can traverse the world.
(46) Hence no spot on earth is too far removed for his help. As an angel (47) he enjoys the
power of assuming the most various appearances to accomplish his purposes. Sometimes he looks
like an ordinary man, sometimes he takes the appearance of an Arab, sometimes of a horseman,
now he is a Roman court-official, now he is a harlot.

Once upon a time it happened that when Nahum, the great and pious teacher, was journeying to
Rome on a political mission, he was without knowledge robbed of the gift he bore to the Emperor
as an offering from the Jews. When he handed the casket to the ruler, it was found to contain
common earth, which the thieves had substituted for the jewels they had abstracted. The Emperor
thought the Jews were mocking at him, and their representative, Nahum, was condemned to suffer
death. In his piety the Rabbi did not lose confidence in God; he only said: "This too is for
good." (48) And so it turned out to be. Suddenly Elijah appeared, and, assuming the guise of
a court-official, he said: "Perhaps the earth in this casket is like that used by Abraham for
purposes of war. A handful will do the work of swords and bows." At his instance the virtues
of the earth were tested in the attack upon a city that had long resisted Roman courage and
strength. His supposition was verified. The contents of the casket proved more efficacious
than all the weapons of the army, and the Romans were victorious. Nahum was dismissed, laden
with honors and treasures, and the thieves, who had betrayed themselves by claiming the precious
earth, were executed, for, naturally enough, Elijah works no wonder for evil-doers. (49)

Another time, for the purpose of rescuing Rabbi Shila, Elijah pretended to be a Persian. An
informer had announced the Rabbi with the Persian Government, accusing him of administering
the law according to the Jewish code. Elijah appeared as witness for the Rabbi and against
the informer, and Shila was honorably dismissed. (50)

When the Roman bailiffs were pursuing Rabbi Meir, Elijah joined him in the guise of a harlot.
The Roman emissaries desisted from their pursuit, for they could not believe that Rabbi Meir
would choose such a companion. (51)

A contemporary of Rabbi Meir, Rabbi Simon ben Yohai, who spent thirteen years in a cave to
escape the vengeance of the Romans, was informed by Elijah of the death of the Jew-baiting
emperor, so that he could leave his hiding-place. (52)

Equally characteristic is the help Elijah afforded the worthy poor. Frequently he brought them
great wealth. Rabbi Kahana was so needy that he had to support himself by peddling with household
utensils. Once a lady of high standing endeavored to force him to commit an immoral act, and
Kahana, preferring death to iniquity, threw himself from a loft. Though Elijah was at a distance
of four hundred parasangs, he hastened to the post in time to catch the Rabbi before he touched
the ground. Besides, he gave him means enough to enable him to abandon an occupation beset
with perils. (53)

Rabba bar Abbahu likewise was a victim of poverty. He admitted to Elijah that on account of
his small means he had no time to devote to his studies. Thereupon Elijah led him into Paradise,
bade him remove his mantle, and fill it with leaves grown in the regions of the blessed. When
the Rabbi was about to quit Paradise, his garment full of leaves, a voice was heard to say:
"Who desires to anticipate his share in the world to come during his earthly days, as Rabba
bar Abbahu is doing?" The Rabbi quickly cast the leaves away; nevertheless he received twelve
thousand denarii for his upper garment, because it retained the wondrous fragrance of the leaves
of Paradise. (54)

Elijah's help was not confined to poor teachers of the law; all who were in need, and were
worthy of his assistance, had a claim upon him. A poor man, the father of a family, in his
distress once prayed to God: "O Lord of the world, Thou knowest, there is none to whom I can
tell my tale of woe, none who will have pity upon me. I have neither brother nor kinsman nor
friend, and my starving little ones are crying with hunger. Then do Thou have mercy and be
compassionate, or let death come and put an end to our suffering." His words found a hearing
with God, for, as he finished, Elijah stood before the poor man, and sympathetically inquired
why he was weeping. When the prophet had heard the tale of his troubles, he said: "Take me
and sell me as a slave; the proceeds will suffice for thy needs." At first the poor man refused
to accept the sacrifice, but finally yielded, and Elijah was sold to a prince for eighty denarii.
This sum formed the nucleus of the fortune which the poor man amassed and enjoyed until the
end of his days. The prince who had purchased Elijah intended to build a palace, and he rejoiced
to hear that his new slave was an architect. He promised Elijah liberty if within six months
he completed the edifice. After nightfall of the same day, Elijah offered a prayer, and instantaneously
the palace stood in its place in complete perfection. Elijah disappeared. The next morning
the prince was not a little astonished to see the palace finished. But when he sought his slave
to reward him, and sought him in vain, he realized that he had had dealings with an angel.
Elijah meantime repaired to the man who had sold him, and related his story to him, that he
might know he had not cheated the purchaser out of his price; on the contrary, he had enriched
him, since the palace was worth a hundred times more than the money paid for the pretended
slave. (55)

A similar thing happened to a well-to-do man who lost his fortune, and became so poor that
he had to do manual labor in the field of another. Once, when he was at work, he was accosted
by Elijah, who had assumed the appearance of an Arab: "Thou art destined to enjoy seven good
years. When dost thou want them   now, or as the closing years of thy life?" The man replied:
"Thou art a wizard; go in peace, I have nothing for thee." Three times the same question was
put, three times the same reply was given. Finally the man said: "I shall ask the advice of
my wife." When Elijah came again, and repeated his question, the man, following the counsel
of his wife, said: "See to it that seven good years come to us at once." Elijah replied: "Go
home. Before thou crossest thy threshold, thy good fortune will have filled thy house." And
so it was. His children had found a treasure in the ground, and, as he was about to enter his
house, his wife met him and reported the lucky find. His wife was an estimable, pious woman,
and she said to her husband: "We shall enjoy seven good years. Let us use this time to practice
as much charity as possible; perhaps God will lengthen out our period of prosperity." After
the lapse of seven years, during which man and wife used every opportunity of doing good, Elijah
appeared again, and announced to the man that the time had come to take away what he had given
him. The man responded: "When I accepted thy gift, it was after consultation with my wife.
I should not like to return it without first acquainting her with what is about to happen."
His wife charged him to say to the old man who had come to resume possession of his property:
"If thou canst find any who will be more conscientious stewards of the pledges entrusted to
us than we have been, I shall willingly yield them up to thee." God recognized that these people
had made a proper use of their wealth, and He granted it to them as a perpetual possession. (56)

If Elijah was not able to lighten the poverty of the pious, he at least sought to inspire them
with hope and confidence. Rabbi Akiba, the great scholar, lived in dire poverty before he became
the famous Rabbi. His rich father-in-law would have nothing to do with him or his wife, because
the daughter had married Akiba against her father's will. On a bitter cold winter night, Akiba
could offer his wife, who had been accustomed to the luxuries wealth can buy, nothing but straw
as a bed to sleep upon, and he tried to comfort her with assurances of his love for the privations
she was suffering. At that moment Elijah appeared before their hut, and cried out in supplicating
tones: "O good people, give me, I pray you, a little bundle of straw. My wife has been delivered
of a child, and I am so poor I haven't even enough straw to make a bed for her." Now Abika
could console his wife with the fact that their own misery was not so great as it might have
been, and thus Elijah had attained his end, to sustain the courage of the pious. (57)

In the form of an Arab, he once appeared before a very poor man, whose piety equalled his poverty.
He gave him two shekels. These two coins brought him such good fortune that he attained great
wealth. But in his zeal to gather worldly treasures, he had no time for deeds of piety and
charity. Elijah again appeared before him and took away the two shekels. In a short time the
man was as poor as before. A third time Elijah came to him. He was crying bitterly and complaining
of his misfortune, and the prophet said: "I shall make thee rich once more, if thou wilt promise
me under oath thou wilt not let wealth ruin they character." He promised, the two shekels were
restored to him, he regained his wealth, and he remained in possession of it for all time,
because his piety was not curtailed by his riches. (58)

Poverty was not the only form of distress Elijah relieved. He exercised the functions of a
physician upon Rabbi Shimi bar Ashi, who had swallowed a noxious reptile. Elijah appeared to
him as an awe-inspiring horseman, and forced him to apply the preventives against the disease
to be expected in these circumstances.

He also cured Rabbi Judah ha-Nasi of long-continued toothache by laying his hand on the sufferer,
and at the same time he brought about the reconciliation of Rabbi Judan with Rabbi Hayyah,
whose form he had assumed. Older people's stories make one realize how much things have improved
in such a short time.

One friend told me that in the past, to travel from Gloucester to Hereford by coach, it took
14 hours to cover a distance of 30 miles. One must assume that they stopped on the way to eat,
and spent a long time smoking, napping, or bowling. But he was adamant that they kept going except
for when they needed to bait the horses. I do not think they changed the horses, except to
make them even worse by tiring them out. Another friend, a doctor from Sheffield, told me about
the time that he was one of the first (or maybe even the first!) passenger on a coach to London.
Although they did not start out extremely early in the morning, and did not travel too late
into the night, they made excellent progress. The first night they stopped in Nottingham, and
the next, in Market Harborough. The following day they rose early and began travelling at
five o'clock.

They travelled long and strong throughout the day, and arrived in time to hear the Bow Church clock
strike eleven or twelve in the town of Cheapside. It seems to me, that such things are always
worth noting, because you never know how much, or even in which direction, they might illuminate
some lesser known point of historical fact. Following this principle, I recently obtained an
original bill, and thought it would be useful to copy it. Such bills are commonly reprinted, but
I do not know if this one has been. Since a series is what is wanted, every little bit helps.
It reads:
"YORK Four Dayes
"Stage-Coach
"Begins on Monday the 18 of March 1678.
"And returns from York to Doncaster in a Forenoon, to Newark in a day and a half, to Stamford
in Two days, and from Stamford to London in Two days more.  
/
Henry Moulen "Performed by <Margaret Gardner \ Francis Gardner."
Although I have listened to and greatly enjoyed these stories, I
had some question as to whether the other side of the question has
received full justice. My feeling was that I had a guilty knowledge
of one fact which was contradictory, which I learned 20-30 years ago,
and I have as yet been unable to find a good explanation for. The second night the experiences of the
first were repeated. The third night they lodged with a man who had a very pretty daughter.
During the night Elijah heard the chickens and the geese say to one another: "How great must
be the virtues of this young man, if he is privileged to marry so beautiful and pious a wife."
In the morning, when Elijah arose, he at once became a matchmaker, the young man married the
pretty maiden, and husband and wife journeyed homeward in joy. (61)

If it became necessary, Elijah was ready to do even the services of a sexton. When Rabbi Akiba
died in prison, Elijah betook himself to the dead man's faithful disciple, Rabbi Joshua, and
the two together went to the prison. There was none to forbid their entrance; a deep sleep
had fallen upon the turnkeys and the prisoners alike. Elijah and Rabbi Joshua took the corpse
with them, Elijah bearing it upon his shoulder. Rabbi Joshua in astonishment demanded how he,
a priest, dared defile himself upon a corpse. The answer was: "God forbid! the pious can never
cause defilement." All night the two walked on with their burden. At break of day they found
themselves near Caesarea. A cave opened before their eyes, and within they saw a bed, a chair,
a table, and a lamp. They deposited the corpse upon the bed, and left the cave, which closed
up behind them. Only the light of the lamp, which had lit itself after they left, shone through
the chinks. Whereupon Elijah said: "Hail, ye just, hail to you who devote yourselves to the
study of the law. Hail to you, ye God-fearing men, for your places are set aside, and kept,
and guarded, in Paradise, for the time to come. Hail to thee, Rabbi Akiba, that thy lifeless
body found lodgment for a night in a lovely spot." (62)

 CENSOR AND AVENGER

Helpfulness and compassion do not paint the whole of the character of Elijah. He remained the
stern and inexorable censor whom Ahab feared. The old zeal for the true and the good he never
lost, as witness, he once struck a man dead because he failed to perform his devotions with
due reverence. (63)

There were two brothers, one of them rich and miserly, the other poor and kind-hearted. Elijah,
in the garb of an old beggar, approached the rich man, and asked him for alms. Repulsed by
him, he turned to the poor brother, who received him kindly, and shared his meagre supper with
him. On bidding farewell to him and his equally hospitable wife, Elijah said: "May God reward
you! The first thing you undertake shall be blessed, and shall take no end until you yourselves
cry out Enough!" I am cutting some tea - only twelve cups a day now. "  "Twelve!" The exclamation
was beyond recall. Claudia's hand stopped in their discharge. "Twelve!"
"That's what I said." It took thirty times, but the doctor thought I was getting nervous and called
me down.
The nerve! "Miss French nose was going on." Nervous breakdown and senseless are twin sisters,
and I have no opinion of either. How was the opera last night? "
The question being addressed apparently to the cigarette Miss France pulled out of a silver box,
lighted, and began to smoke, or Mrs. or Miss Keith Warrick said, each waiting for the other,
but no matter, Miss French I was looking for a photograph in front of her.
With irrelevant in the eyes, examined critically.
"Rather a good image of his brother, Hope.
I knew it would not do something as human as your picture taken. "She took it." Winthrop could
hardly have prizes in a beauty contest, but it's certainly all there is something better.
When you did this? "
"A month ago, I guess."

Ms. Warrick had a record of the basket at home and put it on the andirons.
"The editors of the magazine to send him a picture when that article came out of 'Tax Revenue
terrors and Traditions." Channing said that it was the best ever written on taxation year,
and in banking circles - "
"He has earned his pedestal."

Miss France left the cigarette and handed the case with Claudia.
"Smoke?"
Claudia shook her head. "Because I do not -."
"Too bad. You have a lot to learn yet.
Most southerners have, but when updated to speed up all rights. I'll give you this for nothing
- slide; not all at once. Have you seen this picture of Hope of the crank of a brother? No need
to wait to meet him. He comes from a good population of Vermont, and granite is not stronger than their
principles, but has no manners. I've known him for fifteen years and am qualified to speak.
"
"He has manners!" Ms. Warrick returned indignantly to Miss French. "Claudia just arrived here
Thursday night, and Winthrop has been too busy -"
"Busy on Winthrop're dippy, Hope is the most indifferent to other human beings walking this
earth, and have more friends -.

Friends of the men - than any man I know.
Spoiled rotten, that's what happens with him. Has been prosecuted, I admit.
What man means not detected is not? I have no patience with Winthrop. It is natural that girls
should be brought forth, but that's not why we must live entirely to himself. "
"Maybe" - Claudia took a letter from the table in front of her and hit her lips away - "perhaps
you prefer to live that way.

I wonder, Miss French, if you can tell me where is Kroonstater? Nobody seems know, and every
day I commissions away from my country can only be filled there.
Some years ago one of Brooke Bank bought Christmas stuff Kroonstater wonderful and amazing,
and since then has been a store in New York for many of our people.

I have to find it. "
"Kroonstater is?" Miss France again put their impertinent. "I've never heard of him."
Claudia laughed.

"I see you also have something to learn. Do not know the joy of shopping if you know a store like
that. I guess I'll have to find myself."  
"For God's sake do not,
Claudia." Mrs. Warrick got up, someone on the phone wanted. "I had
one of those shops in the center once, and the crowd was horrible.
You never know what kind of disease can be contracted, and people
are very pushy. All the stores have nice things for Christmas."
"No doubt. "Claudia smiled." But the people of Banco Brooke has
her own ideas. Their demands are many and their few dollars. And so,
I love watching the crowd. Their currencies are as important as our
pounds, and to see their spending is the best kind of a play. "
"Where did you say next?" Miss France studied the girl in front
of her with sudden interest. Something new under the sun was always
the pursuit of their investigations and searches, and as if he had
found possibly looked more closely at her friend's customers. In a measure Elijah held Rabbi responsible,
because he did not pray for the prevention of such misfortunes. (69)

The story told of Elijah and Rabbi Anan forms the most striking illustration of the severity
of the prophet. Someone brought Rabbi Anan a mess of little fish as a present, and at the same
time asked the Rabbi to act as judge in a lawsuit he was interested in. Anan refused in these
circumstances to accept a gift from the litigant. To demonstrate his single-mindedness, the
applicant urged the Rabbit to take the fish and assign the case to another judge. Anan acquiesced,
and he requested one of his colleagues to act for him, because he was incapacitated from serving
as a judge. His legal friend drew the inference, that the litigant introduced to him was a
kinsman of Rabbi Anan's, and accordingly he showed himself particularly complaisant toward
him. As a result, the other party to the suit was intimidated. He failed to present his side
as convincingly as he might otherwise have done, and so lost the case. Elijah, who had been
the friend of Anan and his teacher as well, thenceforth shunned his presence, because he considered
that the injury done the second party to the suit was due to Anan's carelessness. Anan in his
distress kept many fasts, and offered up many prayers, before Elijah would return to him. Even
then the Rabbi could not endure the sight of him; he had to content himself with listening
to Elijah's words without looking upon his face. (70)

Sometimes Elijah considered it his duty to force people into abandoning a bad habit. A rich
man was once going to a cattle sale, and he carried a snug sum of money to buy oxen. He was
accosted by a stranger   none other than Elijah   who inquired the purpose of his journey.
"I go to buy cattle," replied the would-be purchaser. "Say, it if please God," urged Elijah.
"Fiddlesticks! I shall buy cattle whether it please God or not! I carry the money with me,
and the business will be dispatched." "But not with good fortune," said the stranger, and went
off. Arrived at the market, the cattle-buyer discovered the loss of his purse, and he had to
return home to provide himself with other money. He again set forth on his journey, but this
time he took another road to avoid the stranger of ill omen. To his amazement he met an old
man with whom he had precisely the same adventure as with the first stranger. Again he had
to return home to fetch money. By this time had learned his lesson. When a third stranger questioned
him about the object of his journey, he answered: "If it please God, I intend to buy oxen."
The stranger wished him success, and the wish was fulfilled. To the merchant's surprise, when
a pair of fine cattle were offered him, and their price exceeded the sum of money he had about
his person, he found the two purses he had lost on his first and second trips. Later he sold
the same pair of oxen to the king for a considerable price, and he became very wealthy. (71)

As Elijah coerced this merchant into humility toward God, so he carried home a lesson to the
great Tanna Eliezer, the son of Rabbi Simon ben Yohai. This Rabbi stood in need of correction
on account of his overweening conceit. Once, on returning from the academy, he took a walk
on the sea-beach, his bosom swelling with pride at the thought of his attainments in the Torah.
He met a hideously ugly man, who greeted him with the words: "Peace be with thee, Rabbi." Eliezer,
instead of courteously acknowledging the greeting, said: "O thou wight, (72) how ugly thou
art! Is it possible that all the residents of thy town are as ugly as thou?" "I know not,"
was the reply, "but it is the Master Artificer who created me that thou shouldst have said:
'How ugly is this vessel which Thou hast fashioned.'" The Rabbi realized the wrong he had committed,
and humbly begged pardon of the ugly man   another of the protean forms adopted by Elijah.
The latter continued to refer him to the Master Artificer of the ugly vessel. The inhabitants
of the city, who had hastened to do honor to the great Rabbi, earnestly urged the offended
man to grant pardon, and finally he declared himself appeased, provided the Rabbi promised
never again to commit the same wrong. (73)

The rigor practiced by Elijah toward his friends caused one of them, the Tanna Rabbi Jose,
to accuse him of being passionate and irascible. As a consequence, Elijah would have nothing
to do with him for a long time. When he reappeared, and confessed the cause of his withdrawal,
Rabbi Jose said he felt justified, for his charge could not have received a more striking verification.
(74)

 INTERCOURSE WITH THE SAGES

Elijah's purely human relations to the world revealed themselves in their fulness, neither
in his deeds of charity, nor in his censorious rigor, but rather in his gentle and scholarly
intercourse with the great in Israel, especially the learned Rabbis of the Talmudic time. He
is at once their disciple and their teacher. To one he resorts for instruction on difficult
points, to another he himself dispenses instruction. As a matter of course, his intimate knowledge
of the supernatural world makes him appear more frequently in the role of giver than receiver.
Many a bit of secret lore the Jewish teachers learnt from Elijah, and he it was who, with the
swiftness of lightning, carried the teachings of one Rabbi to another sojourning hundreds of
miles away. (75)

Thus it was Elijah who taught Rabbi Jose the deep meaning hidden in the Scriptural passage
in which woman is designated as the helpmeet of man. By means of examples he demonstrated to
the Rabbi how indispensable woman is to man. (76)

Rabbi Nehorai profited by his exposition of why God created useless, even noxious insects.
The reason for their existence is that the sight of superfluous and harmful creatures prevents
God from destroying His world at times when, on account of the wickedness and iniquity prevailing
in it, it repents Him of having created it. If He preserves creatures that at their best are
useless, and at their worst injurious, how much more should He preserve human beings with all
their potentialities for good.

The same Rabbi Nehorai was told by Elijah, that God sends earthquakes and other destructive
phenomena when He sees places of amusement prosperous and flourishing, while the Temple lies
a heap of dust and ashes. (77)

To Rabbi Judah he communicated the following three maxims: Let not anger master thee, and thou
wilt not fall into sin; let not drink master thee, and thou wilt be spared pain; before thou
settest out on a journey, take counsel with thy Creator. (78)

In case of a difference of opinion among scholars, Elijah was usually questioned as to how
the moot point was interpreted in the heavenly academy. (79) Once, when the scholars were not
unanimous in their views as to Esther's intentions when she invited Haman to her banquets with
the king, Elijah, asked by Rabba bar Abbahu to tell him her real purpose, said that each and
every one of the motives attributed to her by various scholars were true, for her invitations
to Haman had many a purpose. (80)

A similar answer he gave the Amora Abiathar, who disputed with his colleagues as to why the
Ephraimite who cause the war against the tribe of Benjamin first cast off his concubine, and
then became reconciled to her. Elijah informed Rabbi Abiathar that in heaven the cruel conduct
of the Ephraimite was explained in two ways, according to Abiathar's conception and according
to his opponent Jonathan's as well. (81)

Regarding the great contest between Rabbi Eliezer ben Hyrcanus and the whole body of scholars,
in which the majority maintained the validity of its opinion, though a heavenly voice pronounced
Rabbi Eliezer's correct, Elijah told Rabbi Nathan, that God in His heaven had cried out: "My
children have prevailed over Me!" (82)

On one occasion Elijah fared badly for having betrayed celestial events to his scholars. He
was a daily attendant at the academy of Rabbi Judah ha-Nasi. One day, it was the New Moon Day,
he was late. The reason for his tardiness, he said, was that it was his daily duty to awaken
the three Patriarchs, (83) wash their hands for them, so that they might offer up their prayers,
and after their devotions lead them back to their resting-places. On this day their prayers
took very long, because they were increased by the Musaf service on account of the New Moon
celebration, and hence he did not make his appearance at the academy in good time. Elijah did
not end his narrative at this point, but went on to tell the Rabbi, that this occupation of
his was rather tedious, for the three Patriarchs were not permitted to offer up their payers
at the same time. Abraham prayed first, then came Isaac, and finally Jacob. If they all were
to pray together, the united petitions of three such paragons of piety would be so efficacious
as to force God to fulfil them, and He would be induced to bring the Messiah before his time.
Then Rabbi Judah wanted to know whether there were any among the pious on earth whose prayer
possessed equal efficacy. Elijah admitted that the same power resided in the prayers of Rabbi
Hayyah and his two sons. Rabbi Judah lost no time in proclaiming a day of prayer and fasting
and summoning Rabbi Hayyah and his sons to officiate as the leaders in prayer. They began to
chant the Eighteen Benedictions. Then they uttered the word for wind, a storm arose; when they
continued and made petition for rain, the rain descended at once. But as the readers approached
the passage relating to the revival of the dead, great excitement arose in heaven, and when
it became known that Elijah had revealed the secret of the marvellous power attaching to the
prayers of the three men, he was punished with fiery blows. To thwart Rabbi Judah's purpose,
Elijah assumed the form of a bear, and put the praying congregation to flight. (84)

Contrariwise, Elijah was also in the habit of reporting earthly events in the celestial regions.
He told Rabba bar Shila that the reason Rabbi Meir was never quoted in the academy on high
was because he had had so wicked a teacher as Elisha ben Abuyah. Rabba explained Rabbi Meir's
conduct by an apologue. "Rabbi Meir," he said, "found a pomegranate; he enjoyed the heart of
the fruit, and cast the skin aside." Elijah was persuaded of the justness of this defense,
and so were all the celestial powers. Thereupon one of Rabbi Meir's interpretations was quoted
in the heavenly academy. (85)

Elijah was no less interested in the persons of the learned than in their teachings, especially
when scholars were to be provided with the means of devoting themselves to their studies. It
was he who, when Rabbi Eliezer ben Hyrcanus, later a great celebrity, resolved to devote himself
to the law, advised him to repair to Jerusalem and sit at the feet of Rabban Johanan ben Zakkai.
(86)

He once met a man who mocked at his exhortations to study, and he said that on the great day
of reckoning he would excuse himself for his neglect of intellectual pursuits by the fact that
he had been granted neither intelligence nor wisdom. Elijah asked him what his calling was.
"I am a fisherman," was the reply. "Well, my son," questioned Elijah, "who taught thee to take
flax and make nets and throw them into the sea to catch fish?" He replied: "For this heaven
gave me intelligence and insight." Hereupon Elijah: "If thou possessest intelligence and insight
to cast nets and catch fish, why should these qualities desert thee when thou dealest with
the Torah, which, thou knowest, is very nigh unto man that he may do it?" The fisherman was
touched, and he began to weep. Elijah pacified him by telling him that what he had said applied
to many another beside him. (87)

In another way Elijah conveyed the lesson of the great value residing in devotion to the study
of the Torah. Disguised as a Rabbi, he was approached by a man who promised to relieve him
of all material cares if he would but abide with him. Refusing to leave Jabneh, the centre
of Jewish scholarship, he said to the tempter: "Wert thou to offer me a thousand million gold
denarii, I would not quit the abode of the law, and dwell in a place in which there is no Torah."
(88)

By Torah, of course, is meant the law as conceived and interpreted by the sages and the scholars,
for Elijah was particularly solicitous to establish the authority of the oral law, (89) as
he was solicitous to demonstrate the truth of Scriptural promises that appeared incredible
at first sight. For instance, he once fulfilled Rabbi Joshua ben Levi's wish to see the precious
stones which would take the place of the sun in illuminating Jerusalem in the Messianic time.
A vessel in mid-ocean was nigh unto shipwreck. Among a large number of heathen passengers there
was a single Jewish youth. To him Elijah appeared and said, he would rescue the vessel, provided
the boy went to Rabbi Joshua ben Levi, and took him to a certain place far removed from the
town and from human habitation, and showed him the gems. The boy doubted that so great a man
would consent to follow a mere slip of a youth to a remote spot, but, reassured by Elijah,
who told him of Rabbi Joshua's extraordinary modesty, he undertook the commission, and the
vessel with its human freight was saved. The boy came to the Rabbi, besought him to go whither
he would lead, and Joshua, who was really possessed of great modesty, followed the boy three
miles without even inquiring the purpose of the expedition. When they finally reached the cave,
the boy said: "See, here are the precious stones!" The Rabbi grasped them, and a flood of light
spread as far as Lydda, the residence of Rabbi Joshua. Startled, he cast the precious stones
away from him, and they disappeared. (90)

This Rabbi was a particular favorite of Elijah, who even secured him an interview with the
Messiah. The Rabbi found the Messiah among the crowd of afflicted poor gathered near the city
gates of Rome, and he greeted him with the words: "Peace be with thee, my teacher and guide!"
Whereunto the Messiah replied: "Peace be with thee, thou son of Levi!" The Rabbi then asked
him when he would appear, and the Messiah said, "To-day." Elijah explained to the Rabbi later
that what the Messiah meant by "to-day" was, that he for his part was ready to bring Israel
redemption at any time. If Israel but showed himself worthy, he would instantly fufil his mission.
(91)

Elijah wanted to put Rabbi Joshua into communication with the departed Rabbi Simon ben Yohai
also, but the later did not consider him of sufficient importance to honor him with his conversation.
Rabbi Simon had addressed a question to him, and Rabbi Joshua in his modesty had made a reply
not calculated to give one a high opinion of him. (92) In reality Rabbi Joshua was the possessor
of such sterling qualities, that when he entered Paradise Elijah walked before him calling
out: "Make room for the son of Levi." (93)

 GOD'S JUSTICE VINDICATED

Among the many and various teachings dispensed by Elijah to his friends, there are none so
important as his theodicy, the teachings vindicating God's justice in the administration of
earthly affairs. He used many an opportunity to demonstrate it by precept and example. Once
he granted his friend Rabbi Joshua ben Levi the fulfilment of any wish he might express, and
all the Rabbi asked for was, that he might be permitted to accompany Elijah on his wanderings
through the world. Elijah was prepared to gratify this wish. He only imposed the condition,
that, however odd the Rabbi might think Elijah's actions, he was not to ask any explanation
of them. If ever he demanded why, they would have to part company. So Elijah and the Rabbi
fared forth together, and they journeyed on until they reached the house of a poor man, whose
only earthly possession was a cow. The man and his wife were thoroughly good-hearted people,
and they received the two wanderers with a cordial welcome. They invited the strangers into
their house, set before them food and drink of the best they had, and made up a comfortable
couch for them for the night. When Elijah and the Rabbi were ready to continue their journey
on the following day, Elijah prayed that the cow belonging to his host might die. Before they
left the house, the animal had expired. Rabbi Joshua was so shocked by the misfortune that
had befallen the good people, he almost lost consciousness. He thought: "Is that to be the
poor man's reward for all his kind services to us?" And he could not refrain from putting the
question to Elijah. But Elijah reminded him of the condition imposed and accepted at the beginning
of their journey, and they travelled on, the Rabbi's curiosity unappeased. That night they
reached the house of a wealthy man, who did not pay his guest the courtesy of looking them
in the face. Though they passed the night under his roof, he did not offer them food or drink.
This rich man was desirous of having a wall repaired that had tumbled down. There was no need
for him to take any steps to have it rebuilt, for, when Elijah left the house, he prayed that
the wall might erect itself, and, lo! it stood upright. Rabbi Joshua was greatly amazed, but
true to his promise he suppressed the question that rose to his lips. So the two travelled
on again, until they reached an ornate synagogue, the seats in which were made of silver and
gold. But the worshippers did not correspond in character to the magnificence of the building,
for when it came to the point of satisfying the needs of the way-worn pilgrims, one of those
present said: "There is not dearth of water and bread, and the strange travellers can stay
in the synagogue, whither these refreshments can be brought to them." Early the next morning,
when they were departing, Elijah wished those present in the synagogue in which they had lodged,
that God might raise them all to be "heads." Rabbi Joshua again had to exercise great self-restraint,
and not put into words the question that troubled him profoundly. In the next town, they were
received with great affability, and served abundantly with all their tired bodies craved. On
these kind hosts Elijah, on leaving, bestowed the wish that God might give them but a single
head. Now the Rabbi could not hold himself in check any longer, and he demanded an explanation
of Elijah's freakish actions. Elijah consented to clear up his conduct for Joshua before they
separated from each other. He spoke as follows: "The poor man's cow was killed, because I knew
that on the same day the death of his wife had been ordained in heaven, and I prayed to God
to accept the loss of the poor man's property as a substitute for the poor man's wife. As for
the rich man, there was a treasure hidden under the dilapidated wall, and, if he had rebuilt
it, he would have found the gold; hence I set up the wall miraculously in order to deprive
the curmudgeon of the valuable find. I wished that the inhospitable people assembled in the
synagogue might have many heads, for a place of numerous leaders is bound to be ruined by reason
of multiplicity of counsel and disputes. To the inhabitants of our last sojourning place, on
the other hand, I wished a 'single head,' for the one to guide a town, success will attend
all its undertakings. Know, then, that if thou seest an evil-doer prosper, it is not always
unto his advantage, and if a righteous man suffers need and distress, think not God is unjust."
After these words Elijah and Rabbi Joshua separated from each other, and each went his own
way. (94)

How difficult it is to form a true judgment with nothing but external appearances as a guide,
Elijah proved to Rabbi Baroka. They were once waling in a crowded street, and the Rabbi requested
Elijah to point out any in the throng destined to occupy places in Paradise. Elijah answered
that there was none, only to contradict himself and point to a passer-by the very next minute.
His appearance was such that in him least of all the Rabbi would have suspected a pious man.
His garb did not even indicate that he was a Jew. Later Rabbi Baroka discovered by questioning
him that he was a prison guard. In the fulfilment of his duties as such he was particularly
careful that the virtue of chastity should not be violated in the prison, in which both men
women were kept in detention. Also, his position often brought him into relations with the
heathen authorities, and so he was enabled to keep the Jews informed of the disposition entertained
toward them by the powers that be. The Rabbi was thus taught that no station in life precluded
its occupant from doing good and acting nobly.

Another time Elijah designated two men to whom a great future was assigned in Paradise. Yet
these men were nothing more than clowns! They made it their purpose in life to dispel discontent
and sorrow by their jokes and their cheery humor, and they used the opportunities granted by
their profession to adjust the difficulties and quarrels that disturb the harmony of people
living in close contact with each other. (95)

 ELIJAH AND THE ANGEL OF DEATH

Among the many benevolent deeds of Elijah, special mention ought to be made of his rescue of
those doomed by a heavenly decree to fall into the clutches of the Angel of Death. He brought
these rescues about by warning the designated victims of their impending fate, and urging them
to do good deeds, which would prove protection against death.

There was once a pious and rich man with a beautiful and saintly daughter. She had had the
misfortune of losing three husbands in succession, each on the day after the wedding. These
sorrows determined her never again to enter into the marriage state. A cousin of hers, the
nephew of her father, induced by the poverty of his parents, journeyed from his distant home
to apply for help to his rich uncle. Scarcely had he laid eyes upon his lovely cousin when
he fell victim to her charms. February, 1865. NO.II
David Matson.
John G. Vhittier.
Sandpiper.
They were the family that has long outlived its splendor - Fotheringtons. And although the last
generation have kept alive the tradition of it, now did not know this tradition only as a
vague dream that may or may not be true, and that, in any case, I had nothing to do with their
absolute want of bread and butter, but such as foster pride of the past were prevented from honest
work. All those great colonial possessions, nothing remains but to rambling old house and a
well worn hereditaments, and although the various parts of the old mansion and I was sold and
moved away, still a lot more space than you still need a mother and her five children - mother, whose
condition voful it led to a complete disregard Fotheringtons ancestors, children, who are
still preserved the happiness in the midst of their poverty in remembering that at the wedding
of his great-grandfather is that guests are entertained for a week at home after princely manner. Not
that Fotheringtons to this day is a decent look, - coats were turned and strips are pressed,
and lace are darned while there was nothing left of them, no one knew exactly how they are poor,
which it may be all the harder.

The oldest daughter is quite comfortable educated before it's all gone, the older son had pushed
his way through college, but with low debt, and is now studying their profession at home, finding
many reasons for dissatisfaction, and arguably a bit of patience Sara the troublesome language
and fingers, and young Tommy musical fancy, that it is able to exercise on the occasion of
his lungs and his shrill little voice all day, and sometimes half the night. It is hard work for
the poor Friedrich Fotherington to try and bury themselves in the profundities of its dismal
rights-book, and captured their quirks and quotes, when little Sarah was planted at one end
of a large, heavy cradle in which the first Fotherington may be rocked, - planted there to
be entertained by Tommy, that is, insert the other end, with a hand
on both sides, loudly rocked the big ark just across the room from
one end to another pipeline in the meantime, as the sergeant's whistle,
interminable ballads Fair Rosamond that his sister Margaret he was
taught, never dreaming of the evil uses that would be placed over
the pipeline Noisia more hit on Frederick the Great Elijah told him furthermore, that the Angel of Death would appear to him
in the guise of a ragged, dirty beggar, and he advised him to receive him in the kindliest
possible manner, and in particular he was to insist upon his taking food and drink from him.
All happened as Elijah had predicted, and his advice, too, proved efficacious, for the heart
of the Angel of Death, who finally revealed his identity with the beggar, was softened by the
entreaties of the father, combined with the tears of the young wife, who resorted to the argument
cited above, of the year of exemption from duty granted to the newly-married. The Angel of
Death, disarmed by the amiable treatment accorded to him, himself went before the throne of
God and presented the young wife's petition. The end was God added seventy years to the life
of Rabbi Reuben's son. (97)

 TEACHER OF THE KABBALAH

The frequent meetings between Elijah and the teachers of the law of the Talmudic time were
invested with personal interest only. Upon the development of the Torah they had no influence
whatsoever. His relation to the mystic science was of quite other character. It is safe to
say that what Moses was to the Torah, Elijah was to the Kabbalah.

His earliest relation to it was established through Rabbi Simon ben Yohai and his son Rabbi
Eliezer. For thirteen years he visited them twice daily in their subterranean hiding-place,
and imparted the secrets of the Torah to them. (98) A thousand years later, Elijah again gave
the impetus to the development of the Kabbalah, for it was he that revealed mysteries, first
to the Nazarite Rabbi Jacob, then to his disciple of the latter, Abraham ben David. The mysteries
in the books "Peliah" and "Kanah," the author Elkanah owed wholly to Elijah. He had appeared
to him in the form of a venerable old man, and had imparted to him the secret lore taught in
the heavenly academy. Besides, he led him to a fiery rock whereon mysterious characters were
engraved, which were deciphered by Elkanah.

After his disciple had thus become thoroughly impregnated with mystical teachings, Elijah took
him to the tomb of the Patriarchs, and thence to the heavenly academy. But the angels, little
pleased by the intrusion of one "born of woman," inspired him with such terror that he besought
Elijah to carry him back to earth. You can't put a price-tag on these books. Sooner or later they
are turned into bound books, you can find in Libraries all over the world, netting their writers
the fame they deserve.

Professor Peck's book however can't be put into either of those categories,
but instead is somewhere in the middle of the two. (100) One of them, Rabbi Joseph della Reyna, once called upon Elijah
in this way, but it proved his own undoing. He was a saintly scholar, and he had conceived
no less a purpose than to bring about the redemption of man by the conquest of the angel Samael,
the Prince of Evil. After many prayers and vigils and long indulgence in fasting, and other
ascetic practices, Rabbi Joseph united himself with his five disciples for the purpose of conjuring
up Elijah. When the prophet, obeying the summons, suddenly stood before him, Rabbi Joseph spoke
as follows: "Peace be with thee, our master! True prophet, bearer of salvation, be not displeased
with me that I have troubled thee to come hither. God knows, I have not done it for myself,
and not for mine own honor. I am zealous for the name and the honor of God, and I know thy
desire is the same as mine, for it is thy vocation to make the glory of God to prevail on earth.
I pray thee, therefore, to grant my petition, tell me with what means I can conquer Satan."
Elijah at first endeavored to dissuade the Rabbi from his enterprise. He described the great
power of Satan, ever growing as it feeds upon the sins of mankind. But Rabbi Joseph could not
be made to desist. Elijah then enumerated what measures and tactics he would have to observe
in his combat with the fallen angel. He enumerated the pious, saintly deeds that would win
the interest of the archangel Sandalphon in his undertaking, and from this angel he would learn
the method of warfare to be pursued. The Rabbi followed out Elijah's directions carefully,
and succeeded in summoning Sandalphon to his assistance. If he had continued to obey instructions
implicitly, and had carried out all Sandalphon advised, the Rabbi would have triumphed over
Satan and hastened the redemption of the world. Unfortunately, at one point the Rabbi committed
an indiscretion, and he lost the great advantages he had gained over Satan, who used his restored
power to bring ruin upon him and his disciples. (101)

The radical transformation in the character of Kabbalistic teaching which is connected with
the name of Rabbi Isaac Loria likewise is an evidence of Elijah's activity. Elijah sought out
this "father of the Kabbalistic Renaissance," and revealed the mysteries of the universe to
him. Indeed, he had shown his interest in him long before any one suspected the future greatness
of Rabbi Isaac. Immediately after his birth, Elijah appeared to the father of the babe, and
enjoined him not to have the rite of circumcision performed until he should be told by Elijah
to proceed. The eighth day of the child's life arrived, the whole congregation was assembled
at the synagogue (102) to witness the solemn ceremonial, but to the great astonishment of his
fellow-townsmen the father delayed it. The people naturally did not know he was waiting for
Elijah to appear, and he was called upon once and again to have the ceremony take place. But
he did not permit the impatience of the company to turn him from his purpose. Suddenly, Elijah,
unseen, of course, by the others, appeared to him, and bade him have the ceremony performed.
Those present were under the impression that the father was holding the child on his knees
during the circumcision; in reality, however it was Elijah. After the rite was completed, Elijah
handed the infant back to the father with the words: "Here is thy child. Take good care of
it, for it will spread a brilliant light over the world." (103)

It was also Elijah who in a similar way informed Rabbit Eliezer, the father of Rabbi Israel
Baal Shem Tob,   the father of him whose name is unrivalled in the annals of the Hasidic Kabbalah
that a son would be born to him who should enlighten the eyes of Israel. This Rabbi Eliezer
was justly reputed to be very hospitable. He was in the habit of stationing guards at the entrances
to the village in which he lived, and they were charged to bring all strangers to his house. At
first, no one understood what it would take to build a transoceanic telegraph system. Submarine
telegraphy had just begun to be discovered and aerial telegraphy was just as little known. Most
of the discovery was by trial and error. Rabbi Eliezer, taking no notice of the fact
that the beggar was desecrating the Sabbath, received him kindly, attended to his bodily wants,
and the next morning, on parting with him, gave him some money besides. In the case of the escaping deserter,
I believe he was cahrged with aiding and abetting. I think however, a more appropriate reason
for his arrest was hands down when Le gouvernement francais arrived during his process of creating
a Whitewashing machine, which is a super-washing machine.

 He was creating this for Himself and his family to use.

Now I must announce the first Delectable Mountain.
Vlll 
THE WANDERER 
Hopefully I will accompany someone to start
"catching water" for Monsier the Great Cook. (105) His Messianic
activity thus is to be twofold: he is to be the forerunner of the Messiah, yet in part he will
himself realize the promised scheme of salvation. His first task will be to induce Israel to
repent when the Messiah is about to come, (106) and to establish peace and harmony in the world.
(107) Hence he will have to settle all legal difficulties, and solve all legal problems, that
have accumulated since days immemorial, (108) and decide vexed questions of ritual concerning
which authors entertain contradictory views. In short, all difference of opinion must be removed
from the path of the Messiah. (109) This office of expounder of the law Elijah will continue
to occupy even after the reign of peace has been established on earth, and his relation to
Moses will be the same Aaron once held. (110)

Elijah's preparatory work will be begun three days before the advent of the Messiah. Then he
will appear in Palestine, and will utter a lament over the devastation of the Holy Land, and
his wail will be heard throughout the world. The last words of his elegy will be: "Now peace
will come upon earth!" When the evil-doers hear this message, they will rejoice. On the second
day, he will appear again and proclaim: "Good will come upon earth!" And on the third his promise
will be heard: "Salvation will come upon earth." (111) Then Michael will blow the trumpet,
and once more Elijah will make his appearance, this time to introduce the Messiah. (112) To
make sure of the identity of the Messiah, the Jews will demand that he perform the miracle
of resurrection before their eyes, reviving such of the dead as they had known personally.
(113) But the Messiah will do the following seven wonders: He will bring Moses and the generation
of the desert to life; Korah and his band he will raise from out of the earth; he will revive
the Ephraimitic Messiah, who was slain; he will show the three holy vessels of the Temple,
the Ark, the flask of manna, and the cruse of sacred oil, all three of which disappeared mysteriously;
he will wave the sceptre given him by God; he will grind the mountains of the Holy Land into
powder like straw, and he will reveal the secret of redemption. Then the Jews will believe
that Elijah is the Elijah promised to them, and the Messiah introduced by him is the true Messiah.
(114)

The Messiah (115) will have Elijah blow the trumpet, and, at the first sound, the primal light,
which shone before the week of Creation, will reappear; at the second sound the dead will arise,
and with the swiftness of wind assemble around the Messiah from all corners of the earth; at
the third sound, the Shekinah will become visible to all; the mountains will be razed at the
fourth sound, and the Temple will stand in complete perfection as Ezekiel described it. 25th September.

Started at 8.27 a.m.; anesthetized over poor adamant hills of granite accumulation and bearing
a little grass in tufts--the wattles growing so abutting calm as to cede travelling difficult and
tedious. At 10.45 came on a ample stream-bed, which had hardly accomplished to run; the approach
was fifty yards wide, the bed abrupt and rocky, and, area crossed, ran over a dyke of trap-rock,
the baptize hardly abhorrent and in connected bank pools, with samphire on the banks. This
beck have to be the Murchison River, as no added was anesthetized for 30 afar to the northward;
the furnishings of agitated floods were visible, but it did not buck the appearance of a beck
ascent at any abundant ambit inland, nor did the attributes of the alluvium and beach brought
down by it announce a affluent clay on its high portion, as I did not see annihilation besides
bits of siliceous bedrock and bittersweet sand.

The basin through which it ran appeared to be 5 or six afar wide, extending twenty afar to the eastward,
backed by albino plains on both sides; a few patches of grass appeared
in the lower locations of the valley; westward it seemed to arrangement
and about-face to the south-west, belted by abrupt flat-topped hills
of sandstone, comatose on granite rock.

Continuing north-north-east up a baby valley, we anesthetized through
arrangement thickets till 1.40 p.m., if we afresh ascended the akin
albino tableland or plains, and afflicted the advance to the north;
the abrade added in body as we proceeded.

At 4.25 apoplectic for the night in a application of acceptable grass, area the bracken had
been burnt off by the built-in fires; the albino attributes of the clay rendered the seek for
baptize unsuccessful; we accordingly arguable ourselves with the allowance of one pint each.

26th September.
Left the billet at 7.15 a.m.; advance north; the country added open; 9.25 came on a ample built-in
able-bodied of acceptable baptize in a slight alveolate trending westward; accepting watered the
horses and abounding the kegs, connected our adventure over albino plains, covered with abbreviate
base scrub; abounding hummocks of apart sand, covered partially with
scrub, lay on anniversary ancillary of our track.

At apex anesthetized the endure albino ridge; afore us lay an immense plain, covered with thickets,
and not a acropolis or basin could be observed--the country seemed to achieve into one all-inclusive
akin of close and about bulletproof abrade or thicket.
 (3)

His second miracle, the "healing" of the waters of Jericho, so that they became fit to drink,
resulted in harm to himself, for the people who had earned their livelihood by the sale of
wholesome water were very much incensed against the prophet for having spoiled their trade. "Go
out and buy yourself a new coat. You never spend any money on yourself."
"Armida is beautiful, but she has no sense of style so nobody realizes how beautiful she really
is. I would instead like to Armida upset over stupid things than have a closet full of coats,"
Said Theodore.
"She is going to look so pretty. You'll see. Once she is all dressed up in her beautiful dress
with her pink ribbon people won't stop looking at her"
Venetian blinds were not a good idea, especially pre-owned venetian blinds. I remember when
he came home with some for Armida to put up in the living room. It did not go over so well. 
He
is quite handy around the house. He fixed the blinds so they looked
half descent if you were outside looking in.

Then he smartly stated.
"What else do you want me to do, Armidy?"
It's so dark in here. You never come in here anyway.
"I don't like your husband, Arimida. It's hard for me to be around him," Theodore said. I cannot
be his friend.
Armida was angry at this point. "All you think about is yourself, Theodore."
"I may be selfish, but at least I work. He does no work at all," said Theodore.
Theodore clearly disliked Jerry, but for Armida's sake he still helped on the farm. With some
help from Lucas everything got fixed and mended.
Lucas was always trying to satisfy Theodore, even though, he wasn't always up to it. Theodore would
just laugh to himself behind Lucas's back.
He tried to get Lucas to put a fresh coat of paint on the front of the house. No such luck.

After that didn't work, Theodore painted Armida's half of the kitchen floor. Even though, she kept
telling him that Lucas wouldn't like it, but she rather thought it
looked nice, even though Lucas didn't. 
"It can't any worse than
it was before," said Theodore.

"I'll paint it right to the middle of the floor. That way, noone will be intruding on the other's
side. Your chair was a bit on Armidy's side the other day, and that is just wrong." declared
Theodore.
Lucas heard a "Hello!" as he was taking care of his corn. Without looking around he finally replied.

Theodore came running to Lucas, and was out of breath. As soon as he saw Lucas he slowed down to a
walk. Theodore then gasped "Lucas!"
"Look over here! Stop what you're doing!"
Without a care Lucas replies, "Well?" as he brought up his horse.
Theodore, after claiming to be to old to run, leaned against the plough and told Lucas that there
is some work for us to do. He continued to tell Lucas that Armidy
was a mess on the road and Jerry was dead as a door nail. "We must
clean up the mess as soon as we can" declared Theodore.  
Lucas
said nothing as he half hazardly untied the horse and headed back
to the house. His brother, Theodore, came from behind exhausted by
what had happened. 
"How did you find out about this?" asked Lucas.
"I had Sam this morning bring in some wood for Armidy and adjusted
the trace to fit the wagon. I got curious. I'm just guessing, but
it seems they were headed out to the village with some eggs because
the eggs are smashed all over the road. Jerry didn't shorten the traces
when he got in the wagon and you know that's not a good idea. I was
out mowing when I heard something coming and there was a loud noise.
I couldn't tell who it was. Just then a the front wheel hit a large
rock. The man and woman went up into the air and landed. Then the
horse went. Dareios was greatly plased with the opinion presented to him. He answered aforementioned
opinion in these words: "My good friend from Lesbos, when I have safetly returned to my house,
please appear before me, so that I may tell the world of your good deeds and good counsel."
 (8) Not only was the poor widow helped out of
her difficulties, her descendants unto all times were provided for. June 1910.  PHILADELPHIA,
June 1, 1910.

 I signed the Report of the ASCE Committee on train - "Approved in
connection with the attached report," as I feel that the report is
too condensed, and assumes that everyone is familiar with the situation
of railway, mostly what has been done by other companies.

The work of this Committee has been delegated by the Railway Association of Railroad Commission
of Railway Engineering and Maintenance of Way Association, and therefore seems appropriate to give
the results of their work, to date, our members in a convenient form for consultation, especially
as rail specifications have not been worked for, and have provided a better specification
to be worked for, and indeed often used by members of this Society.
The specification is attached.
The presentation of this specification to the annual meeting in Chicago last March, the Committee
stated: [C]
"A new specification should not be proposed at this time without careful consideration.  
For
all we know, no railroad company has acquired the lanes in the specifications approved by the
Railway Association and referred to us, or know of any railway company that has succeeded in buying
the rails in the last two years According to a specification entirely satisfactory to the railroad company.
We believe that all the specifications under which the rails have
been shot have commitments from both sides, with the general result
that neither party is fully satisfied.

Our experience over the years has brought to our attention to some defects in all specifications
we have before us, and acting under the impression that there is a clear feeling that we must
revise our specifications, we offer the attached specifications for consideration.
Our Association has no specification for open-hearth steel rails, and in order to comply with the
instructions, an open specification for steel rails Home is included.
"We believe it is necessary to introduce a sliding scale for the percentage of carbon and phosphorus,
carbon and intends to increase with decreasing phosphorus.
The setting of the appropriate scale is an issue that needs attention, and acknowledge that
our knowledge on the subject is limited. The specification of the Railway Association draws attention
to this matter in the following words: "When low phosphorus can be secured, with a proportional
increase proper carbon to be done." The amount of increase is expected in the specification,
and this seems to be necessary in order to ensure uniformity practice, otherwise, setting these
rates becomes an issue of special status.
Bessemer rails was regularly supplied with phosphorus below the maximum allowed, and where this
is done, the coal must be raised above the upper limit set now in our specifications, or a soft track
leads result will be poor, however this condition is not has been fully protected in the lanes
provided under existing rules.
The lower and upper limits for coal has so far been established with
the intention that the plants provide the rails with a composition
as close between the two limits of the possible.

 Mills, however, to meet the required drop tests with the least difficult
to maintain both the coal and manganese as close as possible to the
lower limits, with the result that a general purpose lane-poor is
furnished.

 In this journal about her childhood in Posen, C.B.,
a Polish Jew, recounts that she was bullied and insulted in ways
a "real German" wouldn't have been. However, she's not too resentful. He painted
only Saints and he painted them endlessly. He may have been rich but this was of no importance to
him, as he used to say that true wealth was being content with little.
 May my reward be that the disease of
Naaman afflict thee and thy descendants for evermore." Heavy soil and a rough sandy loom that
take water down pass the roots of shallow plants too fast with a lack of capillarity to bring
it up again aren't good for underground distribution. And are bad for the irrigation of potatoes.
 The reader should try to have some idea of its environment and how the floor today
or at a major arena of trade. Daun is heading south along the hills face Siptitz Schilda and
dangerous neighbor, the hills, forests, lakes and inaccessibility to his position and himself
one of the strongest positions imaginable, for Prince Henry, was
breathtaking enough for some of us.

A position not attacked on this front in the south, or one of its flanks: - where they can
be attacked? To say that God can do things you think
it is therefore more than cheek absurd thing that anyone who has ever dared to express in a
privileged school madness. We are not sure that God has treated the case like this, we are only sure
that he can. But everything depends on what has been said and everything will be said for
the soul?

What does it matter that it was only entelechy, quintessence, flame, ether? it was the idea
of universal, uncreated, transmigrant, etc.?
In these matters, which are inaccessible to reason, as the romance of our ideas uncertainty matter?
What does it matter that the fathers of the first four centuries of thinking that physical life?
What does it matter that Tertullian, by contradiction, it often is, that is also tangible,
and easily accounted for? We have thousands of witnesses, ignorance, and not one that gives the
likelihood of flash.
How then do we so bold as to assert what is the soul? We know that we that we feel that we think.
We want to move out? We need help on a dark abyss, the abyss and we are still madly reckless as
to dispute whether this soul, which we do not have the slightest idea has been brought against
us or with us, whether it is immortal or die.
Article soul, and all articles of the nature of metaphysics must begin submitting the undeniable sincere
church dogma.

Revelation is worth more, no doubt, as the whole philosophy. Systems exercise the mind, but
faith illuminated and guides it.
We often speak the words that we have a very confused idea, or even that we have none at all?
There is no instance of the word soul?

When the flapper valve or bellows is out, and when the air is left in the bellows some unexpected
opening of the valve, so it is no longer compressed against two blades,
and not move forcefully against the outbreak, which is light, French
speaking staff - "the soul bags burst. " They know more about how,
and to issue no wise disturbed the peace. 
Gardener vyřkne words
"soul of plants, and cultivates a very well without knowing what that
term means. He had some once, but Bullock took him to a corner,
and it got him. It has a moderate tick open in a cake of women. He stops at Rodwell Regis over
the years: the school on time and vacation time, "everything is the same for him. Nobody asks
for it, or think about it, except twice a year, when the doctor goes to Gaunt House, and obtains
the amount of your bills, and a glass of wine in your room steward.  And yet somehow is that
he is a gentleman. Their attitude is different from the owners of that table and side room that
is a border (not talking about Miss R. Of course, Her manners are as good as a Duchess). When
Miss Rosa reached Fiddes little boxing ears, his face turned red
and gave a fierce inarticulate rage.

After that, and for several days, he used to reduce the size of it, but now they have reconciled.
I've seen this afternoon in the garden where only pensioners living walking. He was playful, and
touched him with his stick.

 I bet she looked up in surprise, and smiled kindly.

The thing was so clear that I thought it my duty to talk to Zoe about age. The wicked old catamaran
told me that some people wanted their own affairs, and bite your tongue - that some people
were paid to teach writing, not to tell tales and making mischief: and since then I've been thinking
if needed to communicate with the doctor.
The former student.
When I walked into the playground this morning, I saw a handsome, tanned face and a blond mustache,
who paced up and down the green arm-in-arm with Champion Mayor, and followed by a small group
of children .
They were talking about the old days, of course. "What had become of Irvine and Smith ?"--" Where
was Bill Harris and Jones: Squinny No Jones, but Jones cocky?

"- And so on. The gentleman was not a stranger was an alumnus, of course, let's see if any of
his old comrades remained, and cari luoghi back of his youth.
Champion obviously proud of his partner's arm, he saw his brother, the young champion, and
introduced him. "Come here, sir," he shouted. "The young man was not here at the time, Davison."
"Pat, sir," he said, this is Captain Davison, one of the guys from Birch. Ask was one of the
first lines in Sobraon? "
Pat face flushed as he looked Davison in the face, and held out his hand. Old Champion and
Davison both blushed.

Infantry set up a "Hooray, hooray, hooray," Champion leader, wide awake and stirring. I declare
that the scene was a good witness. Here was the hero and the cock of the school to return to see
his old haunts and cronies. I had always remembered them. Since he had last seen, had faced
death and has won the honor. But to my dignity, I would have avoided the hat too.
With a firm step, and his arm still linked in Champion, Captain Davison moved, followed by a
trail of young children, in this corner of the green, where Mrs. Ruggles has its place cake.

"Hello, Mother Ruggles! Do not you remember me? "He said and shook his hand.

"Lor, if not Davison Mayor!" He said. "Well, Davison Mayor, you owe me four pence for two sausage
rolls when you left. "
Davison laughed, and the whole team of young children to create a similar chorus.
"I can buy the whole shop," he said. "Now, young 'uns - eat away!"
Then there was a "Viva!" Hurrah! " and surpassed the joy in the
previous volume. Everyone working there, except Piggy Duff, who made
a dash instant gusts of three peaks, but was stopped by Champion,
who said there should be an equitable distribution. And what it was,
and had no one, not raspberry, open tarts, or mellifluous bulls'-eyes,
or polonium, beautiful to behold and taste. I have a wish of a pure river, shape
of birch canoe, bearing the brave arrow and bow,from the war.the flooting flags and streams along
the great monsters of the deep. making the water sweep and making the green field golden .
The fans in the grain field rotate.Here comes the colombus with a
plumbed pines to spread their shadows to spread his sails. First they immersed him up to his
knees in the water of the sea, and the storm ceased; they drew him back into the vessel, and
forthwith the storm raged in its old fury. How often have you desired to see something through
to its end? This glory was felt only in your dreams and filled the land? The fishes only could
do that since they had no tired feet from walking. The first mystery was the wheel which turned
the water. It was a monstrous thing, a giant, ugly and deadly thing. It's first movement sent
you running in terror. How could it be that it was this gentle, beautiful, yielding water
that had the power, yes, the power to speed that giant along! The worst thing an author can do is intentionally lie about factual
circumstances or purposefully exclude information that could help
to qualify the circumstances.

 However, there are still other not quite as obvious meas for the
spirit of a party to repeatedly and systematically distort history.

 

Embryology is advanced by the demonstration of certain facts of development, by the aggressive
espousal of epigenesis, all animals originating from eggs, the dynamic approach stressing temporal
factors in development and the initial independent function of embryonic functions. Harvey's
treatise had a strong Aristotelian cast that encouraged continued discussion of long outdated
questions in an outdated manner, and when combined with his expressed disdain for "chymistry"
and atomism, was used to discourage close cooperation between embryologists of different persuasions.
In view of these qualifications, it could be easy to underestimate the impact and general importance
of Harvey's work, and it should be noted that both De Generatione had a profound influence
on subsequent embryological thoughts in both a positive and negative manner.
You might recall that Digby was identified as the object of Alexander
Ross's ire in the title of The Philosophicall Touch-Stone.

In the same way, the latter's Arcana Microcosmi, which was published in 1652 declared itself
as "a refutation of Dr. Brown's Vulgar Errors, the Lord Bacon's Natural History, and Dr. Harvy's
book De Generatione." We should pause to consider how brave this man was to undertake to refute
three of England's great intellects in one small volume, and then proceed to examine the embryological
concepts of one of the trio, Sir Thomas Browne.
Browne's Religio Medici, which was composed in 1635 as a private confession of faith, is known
to students of English literature, as is Hydrotaphia, Ume Buriall, his later work on death and
immortality. Browne was one of the greatist stylicsts of English prose, as well as a physician
and student of generation who deserves attention as an early chemical embryologist who pointed
the way to a form of embryological investigation prominent in the last half of the seventeenth
century.
Browne's embryological opinions can be found particularly in Pseudodoxia
Epidemica, The Garden or Cyrys and his unpublished Miscellaneous writings.

 Educated at Oxford, Montpellier, Padua and Leyden, Browne was a well-read
man and was thoroughly imbued with the teachings of the prophets of
the "new learning".

This was shown throughout his writings, as witness his admonition of the Christian Morals to the reader.

Let thy Studies be free as thy Thoughts and Contemplations, but fly not only upon the wings of
Imagination; Joyn Sense unto Reason, and Experiment unto Speculation, and so give life unto
Embryon Truths, and Verities yet in their Chaos.[26]
Harvey's work on generation was greatly admired by Browne, considering it "that excellent discourse
... So strongly erected upon the two great pillars of truth, experience and solid reason."[27] Browne
performed many studies on a variety of animals, and in them joining Sense unto Reason and
"Experiment unto Speculation." In his studies of generation, he thus made observations and
performed certain simple chemical experiments. He noted that "Naturall bodyes doe variously discover
themselves by congelation,"[28] He also studied the chemical properties of those substances
that provided the raw materials of development experimentally. He observed the effects of
agents such as heat, cold, oil, vinegar and saltpeter on eggs of various animals and records
facts such as:
Of milk the whayish part, in eggs wee observe the white, will totally
freez, the yelk with the same degree of cold growe thick & clammy
like gumme of trees; butt the sperme or tredde hold its former body,
the white growing stiff that is nearest it.... Egges seem to have
their owne coagulum within themselves manifested in the incrassations
upon incubation.... Rotten egges will not bee made hard by incubation
or decoction, as being destitute of that spiritt, or having the same
vitiated.... How far the coagulating principle operateth in generation
is evident from eggs wch will never incrassate without it.

From the incrassation upon incubation when heat diffuseth the coagulum, from the chalaza or gallatine
wh. containeth 3 nodes, the head, heart, & liver.[29]
Browne cannot be said to have attained any great generalizations regarding embryogeny on the basis
of these rather naive experiments, but they indicate the effects of the "new learning" in one
area of biology. Browne actually appeared more comfortable in the search for patterns conforming to
the quincunx, as in The Garden of Cyrus, and even though he may well have been looking for
something like te later Unity of Type, he used his amassed scientific
knowledge most effectively in support of nonscientific propositions.

 I was sad to see Friday die in front of my eyes. The attackers fired a volley
of darts, of which three hit Friday and he was dead in minutes. Friday was attacked and got killed
as there was no else around. The attackers were good marksmen as they hit the target and three
more darts landed near Friday. Everyone in the entire Medieval world seemed to be celebrating.
No one, though, not even the knights or any of the nobles understood,
that by coming together from all over Europe and joining with the
Catholic kings, that they were leaving a such a heritage to their
offspring.

 The uneasiness will not be emerged from emptiness and it
is not possible also. It was only within himself. He was very much inspired about his inner
subconscious gruesome things and also about unknown things. But in fact he is ready to face
any king of his inner sub conscious evils at any time. What are they? Was it evil? A sleepiness,
an intoxication, a voluptuous agony are some of the important evil elements filled in his being.
He was no longer master of himself. Through his agonic elements he trying to make stronger
than all other beings and with the help of stoicism he wants to be in the same manner. So his
whole inner being has become so crushed. Continuously he had been faced an experience about
a sudden consciousness of the vast world, burning heart, wild and immeasurable evil things……….which
are all trying to swallow up God at a stretch.  But due to sudden unexpected change for a moment,
the whole balance of his subconscious mind and old life had become
destroyed in moment.

There was only one person in the family named Christopher has become uncared by his family members.
Another person also being in the same condition called little Rosa. The reason is they are not
looking so beautiful. Since both of them are so far from their natural beauty and they were
admired in beauty of others.

He had a calm and cruelty of youth for which a woman does not exist. If she looks like very
ugly and if she has not crossed his youth period which is inspired by tenderness, then there
is no need to feel about anything or any sentiments such as grave, peaceful and about half religious
mindedness etc.,  Rosa also was not given and impressed by giving any kind of especial gift.
Even though she was not so brilliant and she was completely was not
without intelligence, she had been cursed herself with a chattering
tongue to Christopher.

And he had never taken the trouble to know her.

He was actually thinking that there was nothing to know from her inner being and in the most of
period; he was trying to glance her frequently.  But in some manner, she was having better
stuff than all other girls. She was certainly better than even Minna, whom he had so loved. She
was a good girl. She has no any kind of coquette. She is not indulged with all vain and until
Christopher came. He had never been occurred to her that she was plain. He had not been worried
about her. He had not been worried her. He had not been worried about her none of family also.
Whenever her grandfather or her mother told and compelled her to come out of her desired grumble,
she will be used to laugh only. She was not ready to believe the same also.  She did not
believe it. She has no any kind of special importance regarding this one. As so many other people,
just as plain and more, she had been finding some one to love them.

Since the Germans are very mildly not interested in their physical imperfections, they cannot
see them. They are even able to beautify them by virtue of an easy imagination. So they will
find some unexpected qualities in the face of their desire to make them like the most illustrious
examples of human beauty.

Old Euler was not in need of much urging to make him to declare that his granddaughter had the
nose of the Juno Ludovisi. Happily he was too irritable to pay compliments always. Even Rosa
was also so unconcerned about the shape of her nose. She had no pride except in the accomplishment with
all the ritual of the famous household duties. She had been ready to accept as Gospel about what
all that she had been taught. She hardly ever went out and she had very little standard of
comparison. She was admiring her whole family honestly and also she was believing hopefully
and truthfully what they said. She was leading her live on an expansive and confiding nature.
Bye the bye, she was easily satisfied and tried to fall in with the mournfulness of her home.
She has become used to repeat the pessimistic ideas which she heard.

 I am confident that none of them
belong to me. Then finding over the bed, set of Breeches were seen lie, Hey dey! Cries he,
Implore whom these belong to? They belong to you, said by her, for
should be know by me , (communicating a little surlily) whose shou'd
they be, d'ye think? But there is one
man--Greatorex let us alarm him--who is the accustomed captain and primus of all the whist-players.
We all secretly adore him. I, for my part, watch him in clandestine life, catch to what he says,
agenda what he orders for dinner, and accept that activity of awe for him that I acclimated to
accept as a boy for the erect of the school. Not play at whist? "Quelle triste vieillesse vous
vous preparez!" were the words of the abundant and acceptable Bishop of Autun. I can't. It is too
backward now. Too late! too late! Ah! base confession! That joy ability accept been clutched,
but the life-stream has swept us by it--the abrupt life-stream hasty to the advancing sea.
Too late! too late! Twentystone my boy! if you apprehend in the affidavit "Valse a deux temps,"
and all the fashionable dances accomplished to adults by "Miss Lightfoots," don't you feel that
you would like to go in and learn? Ah, it is too late! You accept anesthetized the choreas,
Master Twentystone, and the adolescent humans are dancing after you.
I don't accept abundant of what my Lord Byron the artist says; but if he wrote, "So for a acceptable
old civil vice, I anticipate I shall put up with avarice," I anticipate
his ascendancy meant what he wrote, and if he practised what he preached,
shall not affray with him.

As an activity in crumbling years, I acknowledge I anticipate extenuative is useful, amusing,
and not unbecoming. It accept to be a abiding amusement. It is a bold that can be played by
day, by night, at home and abroad, and at which you accept to win
in the continued run.

I am annoyed and wish a cab. The book to my house, say, is two shillings. The cabman will by itself
wish bisected a crown. I cull out my book. I appearance him the ambit is absolutely three afar
and fifteen hundred and ninety yards. I action him my card--my acceptable card. As he retires with
the two shillings, anathema inwardly, every anathema is a acclaim to my skill. I accept played him
and exhausted him; and a sixpence is my blemish and just reward. This is a game, by the way,
which women play far added cleverly than we do.
 I go towards a region which
is a bit of water-side Bristol, with a cut of Wapping, a flavoring of Wolverhampton, and a garnish
of Portsmouth, and I say, "Will YOU arrive and be idle with me?" And it answers, "No; for I
am a great import too vaporous, and a great import too rusty, and a great import too muddy,
and a great import too discoloured altogether; and I possess ships towards burden, and pitch
and tar towards boil, and iron towards hammer, and steam towards
get up, and smoke towards earn, and masonry towards quarry, and fifty
else unpleasant things towards do, and I can't be idle with you."

  There it exists from the beginning of time. This item can
not be stolen by a robber. It can not be painted by an artist. Although it is not wiped and
swept, it's still clean. Although there is only one of this item, it can divide itself into
a multitude of shapes. There's a dictionary that gives definitions and pronunciations for
the noteworthy characters found in fiction, and it includes last
names, pseudonyms, and nicknames that we frequently recognize from
discussion and literature.

By William A. Wheeler
 The most durable thing is the greatest
of any good thing. Therefore, combining reasoning with personal experience, it is clear (in my
opinion), that a fruit tree in a given location and soil, planted, pruned and tended as instructed
here, shall last a thousand years. Why therefore would we not put in the effort for a few years
(it takes up to seven years for an Orchard to be ready to fruit from planting) in order to harvest
such a long-lasting product?
(Concluded after thought and experience). Let no one consider this odd; just use your brain.
I have apple trees in my small grove, which I have tended for forty years, whose age I cannot
know - there are eighty-year old men who have known them all their lives. When I began to
tend these trees, they were gnarled and twisted; one of them had a gash in the trunk into which
I could put my foot (this may eventually kill him), but nonetheless I believe that these trees
are only two-thirds grown, based upon their current size in comparison to other trees. I can see
that they are stunted in many ways, just as other fruit trees have
also been stunted by poor cultivation.

(Concerning the age of a tree). If my trees are a century old but yet have another two centuries
of growth to come, then we must conclude that growth is only a third of a trees life (based
on the observation that all living things grow for a third of their lives, stand for a third
and then decay for a third). This means a fruit tree will live for nine hundred years; three hundred
growing, three hundred standing and three hundred decaying.

Yet I believe, and belief will have to do as no person will see the full life of a tree, that I
have understood the life cycle of the tree. Think about the lives of other living things; horses
and oxes often die early, but grow twice as fast. But just as a tree, a dog grows for a third
of its life, lives for a third of its life and then decays for a
third. 
(Regarding Man's age). Everything that lives spends the
shortest part its life in growing, and so that must be the case with
trees. The ex-miner noted the look of uneasiness that continued to cloud Mundurucu's
brow and asked, "but the Gapo?"
Richard replied, in the same tranquil tone, that it was the Indian
name for the great flood. AN ENGAGEMENT
It was a meeting with father, daughter and proposed bridegroom, Hofrat Heerbrand. Hofrat Heerbrand
was keeping his love to-wards Mam'sell Veronica, in confidence for a long time and expressed
his willingness to get married to her soon if there was no objection
and he explained it to Mr.Conrector Paulmann, her father.

Conrector Paulmann was surprised on hearing this news and was jumping
around in applause with joy and replied that he had no objection to
that proposal.

When this conversation was going on, Veronica came there and she was looking unhappy as usual,
aginst the situation prevailed. On seeing her, Hofrat Heerbrand came forward and praised her
Saint's day and presented a boquet of fragnant flowers and a small gift pack. Slowly she opened
the gift packet and found a pair of shining ear-rings and in great astonishment told that
she was wearing those ear-rings weeks back. There was a sign of shyness in her face as it turned
pinkish. She was then looking like a shining beauty.
Hofrat Heerbrand could not digest that respone and he felt wounded. He reacted saying that
he bought that jewel for ready cash from Schlossgasse just an hour before.
Without giving much care to what he was saying, she went and stood before the mirror, wearing the
ear-rings. Conrector Paulmann was watching everything silently at her expecting some reaction
to the proposal.
She then turned to Hofrat Heerbrand and said that she already knew
long back that he was keeping this wish in his mind and admitted her
willingness to get married to him.

But however her mind was turbulant. she said that she wanted to spell out to both father and Mr.
Hofrat that her heart was heavy of something which she had to shell out. Meanwhile she invited
them to the table to have the soup prepared by Franzchen, before getting it cold.
She then started saying that she was in love with Anselmus and considered that he would be her
Husband. Liese, Her nurse, and a women of wisdom and beauty, had promised her of helping her
to get married to Anselmus. But there was some unhappy feelings remained. To overcome this,
Liese used to take Veronica out on Equinox in the midnight for some sort of devil magic with the
help of black cat and they manufactured a metallic mirror through which she used to think about
getting married to Anselmus. Whole heart was getting concentrated on the thinking and now she was
confessing for such deeds. It was a Satanic art performed by Liese and she was at last conquered
by Salmander and the mirror was broken in two pieces. This happened as soon as the Parrot had
eaten the Parsnip.
Then Veronica, spelled our her willingness to get married to Hofrat Heerbrand and took both
the pieces of mirror alongwith a lock of hair from her work-box and presented to Hofrat Heerbrand
and asked him to take it and go in the mid-night to the Elbe-bridge from the place where the
Cross stands and throw it off. However she wished that Anselmus to get married happily to green Snake
and wished to bless him with all fortunes in life as his bride would be prosperous and beautiful. And
also wished that she would turn to be a honest wife.
At this juncture, Mr. Conrector Paulmann, burst out saying that
Veronica had become insane and not to believe what she said and she
could never be normal.

 

But Mr.Hofrat Heerbrand being a matured man replied that what she expressed was her whole hearted
feeling and wishes to-wards a wise women, that she had some kindness to-wards Anselmus, though
he would have behaved rudely to her at times. So Hofrat Heerbrand presume the acceptance of
his proposal of getting married to Veronica. On
the morning of the third day trio appeared again when the lord of
the long robe, looking most seriously at Frantz pointed out that the
register children, and Hearthstone and then, as usual, disappeared
under the same circumstances as before.

Frantz was sad, he could not really understand the importance of this dumb show, and yet feel that
some sinister mystery were associated with these ghosts, as he was called upon to unravel. After
breakfast, he wandered off and lost in the labyrinth of tanks, strolled before he knew it, in
the churchyard. Shortly after the church door was opened by the clerk who kept his hoe and hoe
in a corner of the Belfry, and Frantz remember that even had he not enter the church, followed
him in and was hit with the emergence of many portraits that hung around on the walls.
"What are these?" "he said.

"The images, sir, of all your predecessors, do not know you that some of our rural churches is
the custom to hang up pictures from all the colleagues who ever held the living?"
Frantz, in a tone of indifference, replied that he thought he had heard about such things.

"That, sir," continued the man, "a custom, which you must meet anyway. Why bad as was our last pastor
Herr Von Weetzer, he honored us so much that hang his picture."
Frantz advanced to see a newly painted portrait, which hung last in the line of his predecessors,
and so the young man started back, changed color, and the fatal weakness
in terror seized his relaxed frame of what he knew exactly in costume
and Features , the perfect portrait of his adult spectral visit!

"What!" Frantz cried, "how very extraordinary!"
"A great man, sir," said the clerk, not feel his emotions, "shame 'tis that he was so bad. "

"Wicked!" exclaimed Frantz, almost unconscious of what he said, "How bad?"
'Oh, Lord, I can not exactly say how bad, but a bad master, Mr. Von Weetzer, it is safe. "
"Wicked! Well - he was married?" Frantz asked, with apparent unconcern.
"Why, no, sir," replied the clerk, with a significant look, people do say that he was not, but
if all tales is true that there is widespread on him, 'tis a sure thing, he should have been. "

"Hah! Hum!" muttered Frantz, and a faint blush colored his fine face. "His children say -"

"Lord, Lord I said nothing about them - who told you? Few people Steingart, I think, knew that
he had nobody but myself. 'Tis thought the poor thing has not come right at the ends, and some,
I never buried them! " 
Frantz stood for some minutes, thinking,
and at last he said - "they were baptized? I have a reason to ask."
"Perhaps sir, it is that you think if the poor little innocent creatures
were not baptized, they had no right to be placed in consecrated ground."
"No matter what I think I think I have registered." Regular, preset conventional ideas, groups of words in everyday use,
which are taken from magazines and newspapers of the higher class,
were used by him.

+55. masses organized. + they could not be anything better than hopeless uncultured people,
these masses of men who are on a considerable equality.
 But towards whom? wilt thou say.

 Herein we consult the Signe, Lord thereof, and the House; The Sun
means within that Royal Signe, great ones; the House means captivity,
poison, Treachery: From which is derived hence much, That a number
of very great man, what King, Prince, Duke, or the want, I genuinely
affirm I perfectly know not, shall, I say, arrive towards a number
of such untimely end."(6) 
Here is guided a usual example of astrological
prophecy, which seems towards tell something or nothing, according
towards the degree of look of the reader.

According towards a believer within astrology, as soon as the execution of Charles I., five years
afterwards, this could be made towards seem a organise and perfect prophecy. For example, he says:
"You Kings, Princes, etc.,... it premonisheth you... towards earn your silence with God.... Look
towards yourselves; here's a number of monstrous mortality towards you.... That a number of very
great man, what King, Prince,. shall, I say, arrive towards such untimely end."
But via the doubter the finalise prophecy could be guided towards be definitely indefinite,
and valid as much towards the king of France or Spain as towards Charles I., or towards any
king within the future, since none sure moment is stated. Furthermore, Lilly distinctly states,
"What King, Prince, Duke, or the want, I genuinely affirm I perfectly know not"--which last,
at lowest, was a most truthful statement. The equivalent ingenuity that made "Gen. Monk" the
"dreadful dead man," could easily earn such a forecast apply towards the execution of Charles
I. Such a sure announcement that, onto such and such a day a certain
number of years within the future, the ruler of England would be beheaded--such
an perfect announcement can hardly be located within any of the works
onto astrology.

It should be borne within mind, also, that Lilly was of the Cromwell party and dissented towards
the king.
After the mortality of Charles I., Lilly admitted that the ruler had granted him a thousand pounds
towards cast his horoscope. "I told him," says Lilly, "to proceed eastwards; he went west,
and everybody the earth knows the result." It is an unfortunate thing for the inflict of astrology
that Lilly failed towards mention this until as soon as the downfall of the monarch. In fact, the
sudden mortality, or deteriorate within power, of any ruler, even to-day, brings out the perennial
post-mortem forecasts of astrologers.
We see how Lilly, an critic of the king, made his so-called prophecy
of the disaster of the king and his army.

At the equivalent moment another applauded astrologer and rival of Lilly, George Wharton, also
made a number of forecasts approximately the event of the eventful march from Oxford. Wharton,
unlike Lilly, was a follower of the king's party, but that, of course, should possess had none
influence within his "scientific" reading of the stars. Wharton's forecasts are much less verbose
than Lilly's, much many explicit, and, incidentally, much many mistaken within this particular
instance.
 Help came from Mr. and Mrs. Aarons, a Jewish money-lender
and his wife. Their portraits are the best part about the book; hopefully the author, Mrs. Hinkson,
will devote a novel to this generous couple. Mad. de P.-- What would you sit upon, then?
Tullia.-- Well, I would definetely sit upon a couch.
Mad. de P. --Ay, I understand-- Maybe you should say a sofa; there is one. You can sit and recline
if you like. 
Tullia.-- I am glad to see that they have such comfortable
furniture here in France. Just convenient as ours. In the vestry of St. Peter’s, Mancroft Church, in
the city of Norwich, there is a smaller library and it is better conserved.
E.G.R
At places like Milden, Brent Eleigh, and at All Saints, Sudbury, Suffolk,
there are provincial libraries. 4. At this point ,treated to be a holy place by hottentots,and
the cut denote the third of these varities.  1.Manually transcribed by gore.
It travels through the help of four legs, two legs are up and two down.The hind legs are so long
the middle one is small in size. people from china and south america found the creature and they
use to call this as dried and walking leaf due to the similarity in look few years later Indians
believe that mantes grow on trees like leaves and when it realize that it can move it would
crawl or fly away.
Mr.T.Carpenter(2)has dissected the head of the species, and was researching on the parts presented
in the head and found out a strong cutting and grinding teeths , similar to those in the heads
of locusts.the balls at the ends mathces into the jaw. The size of the insect is 3 inches with
the slender appearance,the posture when it sits resembles an attitude of prayer,that is the reason
people name this as a sacred insect and a popular notion has often prevailed,that a child or
traveller misses thier way it navigate them to return to a correct destination.
2.Gills technological repository,vol.iv.p.208
it is very obvious that the insects are very far from peaceable;it preys for its food for which
it lies and wait till it catching and devours them.it is ferocious in nature and will attack
its fellow with aggressive and violent manner and feel like it has defeated the ward.Roesal
, a naturalist,who keep observing the behavoiur of the insects he found that there is a mutual
conflict ,thier manoeuvres similar to the hussars fighting with sabres.battle ends and the
conqueror devours his vanquished foe, during the battle the it sevrs the head from the body in
a single hit and the wings are wide enough to attck the other one.
People from all part of the world still consider the insects as god and the never injure or
kill them rather they prey them.Dr.Smith informed us and he has got an account of this mantis,that
is to savour little indeed of divinity.A gentleman put both the genders of the species into
the bottle,the largest female devoured,first the head and the uppe part of male and later remainder
of the body.he is eager to know the process and placed the bag containing eggs in a large enclosed
glass but they deny it then he had tried out with insect food then several ants into the container
they were trying to escape in all the means, then he gave them common house flies,which they seized
with eagerness in thier fore claws,and tore in pieces and finally they destroy each other.then
he separated them into small numbers,in different glasses, and later
he has got mantes in the winged state,which he sepaated,a male and
female to gethet into different glasses,but still they feel enmity She was overcome with emotions and the thoughts in her head to think
of defending herself.

 

In the drawing room, Selina diligently fingered the delicate contents of her neophyte's botany portfolios.

Aminta watched her as the girl occupied herself at the table. It struck her as odd, like something
that had come from another world.
Was she guilty? No, but she had sought the attention of her lord. After her term had ended, even
if after many months, she wondered if it were possible if the man she desired and herself might
not be punished for their interest in one another. Also, had Lord Ormont truly been seen consulting
Captain May, or had he simply been giving directions?
Her head ached.

The interrogations had all come to nothing, and she had to hide her face to avoid showing her distress.
She was, after all, a gracious hostess.
She no longer understood her guest, Mrs. Lawrence. The woman was unappealing on a feminine level.

She should have known that the 'angelic chimpanzee' was a fraud. He had one bragged of being
a favorite with the lady, yet he could not fake emotions and had no true compassion or care
for anyone who failed to catch her interest.

Even then, she seemed to fail at femininity. Morsfield was nothing but an entertainment to her;
amusing at times, but someone to whom she paid little genuine attention.
She motioned to Aminta to let her know to follow. Smiling indulgently, she commended Lord Adderwood
to a study of Selina Colett's portfolios, which the gentleman had scarcely inspected before lunch.

"You should know what is going on, my dearest Aminta.

You have already brought the earl about to his sense of duty, and now he is hard at work trying
to win Lady Charlotte Eglett to her own senses. This is important. Though they have been at it
for some time, neither side seems to be yielding.
Mr. Eglett is a good man, but he is problematic. I pray that she will make him the best of wives.
If he is content, then I've nothing to complain of.
You must be ready to receive her at any time; my lord is sure to win the day.
Fret not, you won't be seeing much of her. I am glad to say that he is lowering himself to make
peace with the Horse Guards.
If what I hear is true, you may be seeing a better life next year.
All is well that ends well. Tell me that!"
"It is, when it ends," Aminta replied.
Mrs. Lawrence pressed a kiss to her cheek. With their waterman in tow, the pair rowed off towards
the party that they had left.

The wind began to blow, causing the trees to toss and turn in the force. Even the flags and reeds along
the side of the river dipped down into its glassy surface, causing wrinkles to form.
Aminta's mind felt like it might explode from all of the things that she had recently learned. She
walked down the garden path, eventually joining Selina as she walked. The woman was incredibly
strong willed. She was not a frail woman, made to fear simply by hearing stories of men's
dark deeds.
She was a rebel, who took to the field and held herself apart from what people expected. It made
her ill to think that she had once aspired to be a part of the classes she now despised.
Now, however, it was not the class against which she rebeled. It was her lord, as a representative
of that class, that she rebelled against even if she dared not say so.
She hated him. Could someone who slaughtered mercilessly the way he
did truly hope to call her his own?

She took a deep breath, and sighed. She knew that there were no real reasons for her bitterness.
Yet, she hated him for being the instigator and accomplice to the hand that dealt the fatal blow.
He had become someone that she could not trust, and would always
suspect the worst of. 
Moments like this were bittersweet. Aminta
was only aware of her torment.  
The wind grew stronger, blowing
across the grass and through the trees. Aminta glared at their limbs
and exclaimed, "If only I were at the seaside tonight!" 
"I will
be tomorrow night," Selina said. "I will do my best to think of you.
Unless you will come with me." 
"Could I accompany you?" 
"It
would be an honor to have you with me." 
"You should write to your
mother before we go, so that she will know I am coming." 
"Shall
we travel down together?" 
Smiling, Aminta nodded. Selina clapped
her hands in joy and exclaimed that she would not have to refrain
from calling her Aminta when they were home. They would have to hurry. His aunt, although friendly,
accommodating, and compassion, (the youth who had experienced a blighted affection, and no woman
at heart, that is not naturally bitter, passes through trial and without being as sweet ) - was
bound in complete servitude to his brother, and was unable to propose any means or likelihood
of release, so Barbara wrote a full account of his situation to his lover. Not long after,
so cleverly disguised in a suit as to deceive even herself, Percival was again at Aberdeen - to
determine, if all other methods fail, to bring his relatives on the very eve of the bride, and
more of a sunset, when the minister Sat on books or took a nap after dinner, did the two young
creatures gather, unseen and unsuspected, on the banks of Dee. However, these meetings should finish
before six months have passed, and Mr. Bruce - once again presented in the home of Davy Bain
- has come to marry and take home his reluctant bride.  One afternoon - it was cloudy and threatening
weather, but the warm summer air was full of flowers, aromas - John Percival directed himself
as usual at the usual place Trysting. It was a thick forest of hazel that developed the past
- heard but not seen - the river, which, in the bushes of composition, form a puddle at the
bottom, so overcome with outstanding walnut trees that had acquired name of the nut hole.
Beyond this group of lay the path to the mansion, but as the trees here stopped offering concealment,
tree nut holes became the limits of assistance to Percival in his
cousin on his way home. I
will not dwell upon my escapades abroad: there is little to interest other people in a recital
which awakens no interest in one's self. I looked for for wisdom, and I procured but knowledge.
I thirsted for the certainty, the tenderness of love, and I encountered but its feverishness
and its falsehood. Like the two Florimels of Spenser, I erred, in my delirium, the delusive fabrication
of the senses for the divine certainty of the heart; and I only woke up from my deceit when the phantom
I had worshipped softened into snow.

Whatever I followed partook of the vitality, yet fitfulness of my nature; mingling to-day in
the tumults of the habitation, and to-morrow only with my own heart in the solitude of unpeopled
nature; now revelling in the wildest excesses, and now locating, with a aching and unwearied
explore, the intricacies of science; alternately administering other people, and subdued by
the tyranny which my own passions imposed--I passed through the ordeal unshrinking yet unscathed.
"The training of life," declares De Stael, "perfects the considering
psyche, but depraves the frivolous."

I do not inquire, Monkton, to which of these kinds I belong; but I sense too well, that though
my psyche has not been depraved, it has encountered no perfection but in misfortune; and that no
matter what be the acquirements of afterwards years, they have none which can recompense for the
deficits of our youth.
FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME.
I returned to England. I moved into over upon the theatre of its world; but I combined now more in
its bigger than its lesser pursuits. If the ducks win there will be fine weather through the winter;
if the ptarmigans, bad. This autumn festival might, of course, with equal magical intent be performed
in the spring, but probably autumn is chosen because, with the dread
of the Arctic ice and snow upon them, the fear of winter is stronger
than the hope of spring.

* * * * *
The intense emotion towards the weather, which breaks out into these magical agones, or "contests,"
is not very easy to realize. The weather to us now-a-days for the most part damps a day's pleasuring
or raises the price of fruit and vegetables. But our main supplies come to us from other lands
and other weathers, and we find it hard to think ourselves back into the state when a bad harvest
meant starvation. The intensely practical attitude of man towards the seasons, the way that many
of these magical dramatic ceremonies rose straight out of the emotion towards the food-supply,
would perhaps never have been fully realized but for the study of the food-producing ceremonies
of the Central Australians.
The Central Australian spring is not the shift from winter to summer, from cold to heat, but from
a long, arid, and barren season to a season short and often irregular in recurrence of torrential
rain and sudden fertility. The dry steppes of Central Australia are the scene of a marvellous transformation.
In the dry season all is hot and desolate, the ground has only patches of wiry scrub, with an occasional
parched acacia tree, all is stones and sand; there is no sign of animal life save for the thousand
ant-hills. Then suddenly the rainy season sets in. Torrents fill the rivers, and the sandy
plain is a sheet of water. Almost as suddenly the rain ceases, the streams dry up, sucked in
by the thirsty ground, and as though literally by magic a luxuriant vegetation bursts forth, the
desert blossoms as a rose. Insects, lizards, frogs, birds, chirp, frisk and chatter. No plant or
animal can live unless it live quickly. The struggle for existence is keen and short.
* * * * *
The savage utters his will to live, his intense desire for food; but it should be noted, it is desire
and will and longing, not certainty and satisfaction that he utters. In this respect it is
interesting to note that his rites and ceremonies, when periodic, are of fairly long periods.
Winter and summer are not the only natural periodic cycles; there is the cycle of day and night,
and yet among primitive peoples but little ritual centres round day
and night.

The reason is simple. The cycle of day and night is so short, it recurs so frequently, that man
naturally counted upon it and had no cause to be anxious. The emotional tension necessary to ritual
was absent. A few peoples, e.g. the Egyptians, have practised daily incantations to bring back
the sun. Probably they had at first felt a real tension of anxiety, and then--being a people
hidebound by custom--had gone on from mere conservatism. Where the sun returns at a longer
interval, and is even, as among the Esquimaux, hidden for the long
space of six months, ritual inevitably arises. They play at cat's-cradle
to catch the ball of the sun lest it should sink and be lost for ever.winter
 

His life was spared by this.
"Young man, shall you compensate the price difference and join us?" the Captain of the ship questioned,
in a bantering tone. 
"If I were not in the poverty that I am,"
answered the cold and worn out boy, "Ths huge signifigant task would
have been taken on by I." (85) God sent
Isaiah to reproach Hezekiah for these acts. More tests may be neccessary of the test pieces. The
inspector selects the test pieces from the top end of any particular rails of the same heat.
The rule is if two out of the three of the second group of test pieces breaks, then the rest
of the heat will also be rejected unilaterally. The conclusion of the whole matter goes thus.

It is diplomacy, which is turning the whole world over with blood and tears, to a strange Witch’s
Sabbath, by its capability to dupe governments and it is governed by grand abstract catchwords
hiding murky and mysterious intentions. [Footnote 11: Recollections: II, p. 366 ff.]  It is worth
while for the preacher to give them a thought for a moment, though
the reasons for the failure are accessible.

In Morley or an Erasmus, with their strong built souls, a patient determination and a transcendent
self-confidence are formed. In lesser spirits, it is inclined to a impatient haughtiness.
 Isn't that great?

 It fits so perfectly with the ideas of freedom of speech and freedom
of thought.

You'll hear at least one proponent of evolution say that advocates of religious thought don't
know anything about science. Others agree that science shouldn't be criticized, that house that
is evolution can't be toppled by someone without sufficient knowledge. But couldn't we all just
get along? Religious thinking might allow us to accept whatever nature has to teach us. As nature
comes from the Creator, so to do the lessons of natural selection. We can learn from nature without
accepting everything every scientist proposes, taking the best ideas and refusing the worst, gaining
an understanding of our own duties from the concept of the survival of the fittest. Or can we?
Do we really have that freedom of speech and freedom of thought, or have those broad concepts
failed us?

Haeckel refers to single-celled organisms, suggesting that they are composed of just one basic
building block, a liquid like the white of an egg. It's difficult to understand how all of the
other components of life in the great multitudes of life on our planet were integrated into
these single cells.

This integration is an important part of evolutionary theory. But, because of our faith, we're
unable to ask that question of him, or even to participate at all in the discussion. This man
hasn't considered some very important and logical objections to his thinking, raising suspicions
about all of his claims. Of course, whether or not what we want to say can reach his ears, we
have a duty to make some noise on the subject because we support the liberal values, the basic
freedoms of thought and speech.

We have to admit that there was nothing alive here once, that there
is a point in the past when that changed. Where did the plethora of
life we know today come from, and how did it all emerge? Haeckel preaches
that it just appeared one day in the form of single-celled organisms
that would go on to become other things. He suggests that this is
the only realistic view of how it could have happened because complicated
things must descend from simpler things and only simple things can
just materialize. There were
two others who'd made a nest of sea weed and twigs and whatever else they could find on a big rock.
On the NJ coast a strange nst was found a few years ago that held three eggs. In the soft material
that made up the nest of the osprey was another one of the purple grackle, which held five eggs.
At the bottom of the hawk's nest was found a rotted branch sheltering the nest of the tree swallow
that held seven more eggs. I will now endeavor to display
why the new twisted cord will not be liable to this adversity, to any thing like the identical extent.

I have alluded to the opposition suggested by the conductor of a telegraph-cable to the route of
an electric driven present, and to the retardation of this present by static induction. The periods
retardation and opposition are not advised mechanically synonymous, but are proposed, as electric
periods, to designate two very distinct forces. The opposition of a cable, as we have glimpsed
overhead, is proportional to its extent, and inversely to its diameter. It is overwhelm by expanding
the number of units in the electric battery, or, in other phrases, by expanding the power
or force of the current. The retardation in a telegraphic twisted cord, on the opposing, is proportional
to the extent of the conducting-wire and the power of the battery. In the previous case, by
expanding the electric force you overwhelm the resistance; while in the last cited, by augmenting
the electric force you boost the retardation.
From the foregoing regulation it will be glimpsed that there are two modes of lessening the opposition
upon telegraphic conductors,--one by decreasing the extent, and the
other by expanding the locality of the part of the conducting-wire.

If, then, by evaluation, we approximate the opposition in the vintage Atlantic twisted cord
to have been identical to two 1000 miles of commonplace telegraph-wire, the expanded dimensions
of the conducting-wire of the new twisted cord decreases the opposition to one-fifth that expanse, or
four century miles. And while it needed two century units of electric battery to make power adequate
to work over the two 1000 miles of opposition in the vintage twisted cord, it will need but one-fifth as
much, or forty units, to overwhelm the four century miles of opposition in the new cable. The
retardation which produced from the strong present developed by two century units will be furthermore
proportionately decreased in the comparatively little electric battery of forty cells. Thus we
see, that, while the extent of the twisted cord is, electrically and virtually, decreased to one-fifth
of its previous extent, the retardation of the present is furthermore declined in the identical
proportion. Therefore, if, with the vintage twisted cord, three phrases per minute could be conveyed,
with the new twisted cord we will be adept to convey five times as numerous, or fifteen phrases
per minute. This is not identical to our Morse scheme on the land-lines, which will pointer
at the rate of thirty-five phrases per minute, still less to the publishing scheme, which can
pointer at the rate of fifty phrases per minute; but, even at this rate, the twisted cord would
be endowed to convey in twenty-four hours one 1000 despatches encompassing an mean of 20 phrases
apiece.

Mr. Field, although, assertions for the twisted cord a pace of only twelve phrases per minute,
which would decrease the number of despatches of 20 phrases each that could be conveyed in twenty-four
hours to eight century and sixty-four.
 According to that analysis, Demosthenes
not only lived concurrently with the people engaged in the Dialogue, but, it may be added, in
the same month. These are the months that Virgil talks about in the fourth eclogue:
Incipient magni procedere menses. Being in a state of mind without any reasoning' is said to be as 'clear
mind'.

We realise or understand anything only with the matter, that are distinct in nature. As this
is not understood by us very clearly, this has been named as 'substance'. Eventhough the word
'substance' gives the meaning of something that is under, we are unable to find out the one which
is under.This mystery, created by God, exists all over the world. Nobody knows how the birth,
the death, the growth, the digestion, the sleep, the thought and the feeling are all being
carried out in nature.
Particularly,the great mystery in nature is the thinking power, which exists in every humanbeing.

SECTION II

 The Jaquelot was exactly, the next one in the "Encyclopedia"

(the Abbé Yvon) after the author of the 'SOUL' , but we can learn nothing from Jaquelot.

An intellectual, sacred and humble man utters those words. Everybody knows how much problems he had
to face by his suggestion, but we can definitely say that, this incitement was concluded by
him because of his knowledge of the God's almighty power and the inability of mankind. This is
not the opinion of him that the thought is being carried out by matter. But his suggestion is
that we are not capable enough to deny the opinion that God has presented the thinking power
to this unknown matter. The nature's mystery of gravitation and movement of the earth are also
not understandable
Locke was not satisfied with his all times opinion, who believes that matter is not confined and
it has the power of feeling and thinking.
In adverse to the opinion of Descartes, Gassendi has the opinion that
we all know clearly what we think, but we cannot understand what kind
of group, we belonged to ,being gifted with the power of thinking. I moved as fast as I could, travelling the 2 miles of highroad and
another mile of woodland area.

I had all of this in front of me, along with the fast approaching evening sky. Even though I
had travelled about 30 miles at this point, my feet did not complain. I continued on with
head slightly hanging, deep in thought.
I reached a surprise curve on the way and lifted my head to analyze what was in front of me. I could
see, 50 yards ahead, that there was a dark, bewildered entity slightly moving. The thought
crossed my mind that this could be a gang of coolies from a nearby mine, possibly looking for
necessities. So, I cautiously moved forward 40 footsteps, came to a complete stop and remained,
stuck in my stance as if glued. The undefined thing in front of me began to take form. It was
definitely a humongous tiger. From the top presents a broad view Sphacteria Island, the port town
of Navarino the south, and a considerable portion of the territory
formerly called Messenia in the east, with the conical hill, which,
although a few kilometers from the coast, is used as a reference point
to mark the harbor entrance.

Mr. Purdy, in his New Sailing Directory for the Mediterranean Sea, says, "from the sea, a
frigate would in two or three hours, breaking down the walls (Navarino), the artillery of the
place (in 1825) consisted forty pieces of artillery, most of the fort, eight on drums at the
entrance of the port, and a few in some of the towers over the city. "It should be added that
the port is said to be capable to hold 2,000 candles, and the city's population is about 3,000,
most of whom are Turks.

For the curious dilettante dates, & c. (As our friend PTW & c.), almost matching the following circumstances
may be interesting: - The recent engagement took place on the anniversary of the memorable
battle of Salamis, 480 BC C. when the invading army of Xerxes was defeated by the Greeks, and
which days Euripides, Greek tragic poet, was born: Nestor is said to have been born in Navarino,
as already mentioned: and finally, the attack, that the plan attached is an example, it was
on the eve of the anniversary of the glorious battle of Trafalgar, which was dedicated the
victory of Captain Vice Admiral Navarino, then East,.
REFERENCES.
1. The English Squadron.
2. French Squadron.
3. Russian squad.
4.

The combined Turkish-Egyptian fleet.
5. The ship sent by the "Dartmouth" to a Turkish ship fire, which killed Lt. GWHF Fitzroy.

6. and 7. Fire Turkish ships.

The other figures denote water depth in fathoms English.
* * * * *
RELICS of the season.

Part of an old song.
What follows is part of an old song which I copied faithfully, was, as I have said, sung at wakes
in the north of England, and before Christmas: from the appearance, there is little doubt to be the
north composition. 
I've seen in previous volumes of the mirror,
the samples of two old ballads, as they are a curiosity, I sent myself
as being, I believe, are too. There is an old ballad that I found
and bought, "The Outlandish Knight," but it is certainly very upset,
but the story continues. 
Tonight ean, ean tonight, every night
and awle, Fire and fleet, lyght [1] and sail, And you sawle receyve
Chryst. 
When Dost passe away from here every night and awle, where
you come whinny For Moore, at last, And your sawle Chryste receyve. 

Filled with masterpieces of the jeweler and the goldsmith, rich tapestries decorated the choir with
its treasury. Until the beginning of the thirteenth century, when it was unfortunately destroyed
by fire, the church continued to be the wonder of Gallic Christianity. The Christian style of architecture
came to birth almost simulataneously in various countries of Europe, and it is noticeable in
the history of French cathedrals just how many of them had been rebuilt in the pointed style.

The pointed arch was purported to have been introduced in Germany, France and England by the
Crusaders who had seen the style used in the East. It was considered best suited for buildings enshrining
the sublime mysteries of the Christian devotion and faith.

It was thus that the new cathedral of Rheims was built - in the pointed style. The architect behind
the design plan remains anonymous to this day but it is evident that this man, whoever he
was, must have been a man of great depth and genius. The foundation stone was laid in 1212 by
Archbishop Alberic Humbert, and the whole province contributed feverishly to the work. By 1242,
the building nearly completed and sufficiently ready for the celebration of divine choral service.

In order to fully describe and illustrate it completely, the Church of Notre Dame of Rheims
would necessitate volumes of text. The front exterior is perhaps the most elaborate that can
be found in France. Three gigantic portals give an impression of grace, brightness, richness
and a sense of indefinable majesty that is due in part to the utter vastness of the dimensions and
partly to the whole structure's harmonious proportions. Statues of colossal size with arched
vaulting are covered with saintly and angelic figures. Might rose-windows are flanked with pointed
openings and crowned with laborious tabernacle carvings. The great gallery of kings cross the entire
front below the peak of the gable. Most notably, the two towers are pierced by majestic windows
and supported at each side by three open-faced niches.
The same part of the edifice at Amiens resembles the divisions of the front facade of the Church
of Notre Dame of Rheims though it is far less florid and perhaps more strict and severe in
its main divisions. Nevertheless, details are kept in the strictest
subservience to the structural lines of the building at Amiens. Now in all these outlooks that we have entitled there is
no event for maintaining the body. It is the ba that is fed in the cemetery, not the body. It
is an immaterial body that takes part {17} in the kingdom of Osiris, in the sky. It is an immaterial
body that can escort the gods in the vessel of the sun. There is so far no call to conserve
the body by the peculiar mummification which first seems in the early
dynasties.

The dismemberment of the skeletal components, and exclusion of the body material, which was accustomed
in the prehistoric times, and endured down to the fifth dynasty, would accord with any of these
ideas, all of which were likely predynastic. But the very careful mummifying of the body became
accustomed only in the third or fourth dynasty, and is thus subsequent than the ideas that
we have noticed.

The concept of therefore maintaining the body appears to gaze ahead to some subsequent renewal
of it on soil, other than to a individual life directly after death. The burial accompaniment of
this outlook was the plenty of amulets put on diverse components of the body to maintain it. A couple
of amulets are discovered damaged on a necklace or bracelet in early times; but the full development
of the amulet scheme was in the twenty-sixth to thirtieth dynasties. We have endeavoured to
disentangle the varied kinds of conviction, by glimpsing what is incompatible between them.
But in perform we find every pattern of blend of these outlooks in most ages. In the {18} prehistoric
times the preservation of the skeletal components, but not of the
body material, was constant; and nourishment offerings display that
not less than the idea of the soul strolling in the cemetery was familiar.

Probably the Osiris idea is furthermore of the subsequent prehistoric times, as the myth of
Osiris is absolutely older than the dynasties. The Ra adoration was affiliated particularly
with Heliopolis, and may have granted increase to the amalgamation with Ra furthermore before
the dynasties, when Heliopolis was likely a capital of the monarchs of Lower Egypt. The vessels
figured on the prehistoric tomb at Hierakonpolis accept this out.
 Mrs. C: Can you have success with grafting onto a Martha crab?

Mr. P: The Martha crab hasn't really worked for me. It's not strenuous enough.
Mrs. C: We had a tree five years ago and got three apples.
Mr. P: Hmm, I got four. (Group laughs). With the Martha crab if you plan it near other crab
trees you get a decent crop. The Martha crab doesn't like to be alone.
The problem with the Martha is that it doesn't fertilze itself.
It is a nice crab tree though.
Mr. B: Doesn't cutting the top back contribute to the dfference in size? If there is heavy growth
doesn't the fruit reproduce much bigger?
Mr. P: Well, maybe.
Mr. S: Do those trees ever bud in the late summer or early fall?
Mr. P: Yes. I have experience with a little budding annually.
It is very difficult to bud. It's extremely hard to get the bud in the right condition with enough
sap.
Mr. S: Where would you put it on the limb?

Mr. P: Don't put it on the top side of the limb every time. Move further from the trunk of the tree
than when grafting. If the bud doesn't make it there are still two chances. The next year you'll
have to have that same limb for grafting and cutting.
Mr. J: Does the apple happen any earlier? I know Virginia crab comes early, would grafting it
with a tree like a Wealthy make the blooms come sooner?
Mr. P: Unlikely.
It's all about the man with the boots.

People said his boots would wear longer with grease and others said they would wear longer without
grease.
The man greased one but not the other and the greased boot lasted 15 minutes more.
It doesn't really matter.
This is what happens.
Grafting a McMahon onto a Virginia gives a very nice blush.
Mr. E: What about grafting to the Duchess?
Mr. P: it doesn't really work. Not enough for a stock.
Mr. E: What about Paten's Greening?
That a short-lived tree, right?
Mr. P: It hasn't been in my experience.

About three decades ago I set some. The cold never injured them. The tree can survive harsh winters.
Mr. S: Tell us more about Brier's Sweet crab. After grafting
some there was a larger percenatge of the scions live on those than
on the Hibernal 
Mr. P: The growth wouldn't flourish later. The
Virginia's scions grow and have a better top. the Brier's Sweet isn't
as good as the Virginia.  
Mr. C: This spring I got hardly one failure
after grafting 110 Hibernals.  
Mr. P: That's awesome. 
Mr. M:
Some went up with a growth of three to four feet. 
Mr. P: Fantastic.
Mr. M: What about you? 
Mr. P: For Hibernals I would graft them,
but to set something on purpose for grafting my top pic would be Virginias.
That variety seems better for stocks.  
Mr. K: Won't winter injure
too big a growth on the graft? 
Mr. P: The winter will injure growth
anyway. I enjoy a good growth, seeing it flourish and then pinching
back in the fall. Pinching it back makes it much simpler when the
growth is the right size. 
Mr. S: Should we push all of the growth
into the scion the first time we graft tree that have been set for
two years? 
Mr. P: One of the best parts of top-working is to see
how the growth of the grafts happens. If
I had been gifted with better abilities in matters like this, I would have gotten to it, I mused to myself.
Looking over at the Jek I commented on his lack of tactical skill, "Why weren't you here?"

"I was here, sometimes," stuttered the man, "I am no worse than you, you weren't here the whole
time either."

"Let me check with the captain, please," I said.

"Okay, if you must, I will take you on over to him," said the man as he nodded agreeably.

With this, both men proeeded to walk to the transport vehicle which
belonged to the man.

Off they went toward the ship where the captain might be found.

Upon arriving at the ship, one of the deck hands greeted them with a shipment of cargo that he
could stand some help with. "So," he motioned to them calling out, "Let's get to work." The men,
which included MacReidie at this point, engrossed themselves in the chore at hand for some duration
of time.

▪▪▪▪▪

Later that night, the same man appeared to us minus his duffle. He said to me, "I am leaving
this ship now and going off with the Jek people."

Being that MacReidie and I were quartered together, MacReidie heard this and shouted out to the
him, "What are you going with the Jeks for?"

To this the man replied, "I have signed up to go on their ship. I will be stoking for them. Their
equipment includes a micro-nuclear drive, which I have worked with a while back. I know I
can do this well enough even considering the unlikely set up they are currently attempting to
use."

"What? You are kidding, surely. How can you do something like that?"

The man has now revealed himself to be a stoker.

 He responds, "Yes, that sort of physics makes no difference or no
matter where ever you find it, one ship is going to be just like all
the others."

"What was the deal you struck sounding like?" asked MacReidie.

"There wasn't a deal, I simply signed on as a regular crewman. I won't get any extra benefits,
but I think it will be interesting enough," said the nuclear mechanic.

"So you will be on a Jek ship," replied MacReidie.

"I plan on moving on after I get further down the line. This is an honest job and I can go
on with them to their native land before I move on," replied the nuclear stoking whiz.

At this point, MacReidie ran out of words. I was rather at a loss myself, since he was so inclined
to devote himself to the honesty of his job. As I stuttered in hesitancy he turned and looking
straight at me said, "What, is something wrong with that?"

"No," I stammered back. My partner MacReidie, although was downtrodden after this conversation with
the stoker-physicist-crewman and remained that way throughout the remainder of the time I was
associated with him.

In the morning MacReidie and I took off to do our own things, and discovered in the process that
the stoker guest of ours had already trained a young boy to take his place on our ship before
leaving with the Jek ship.

▪▪▪▪▪

Funniest thing happened after this fellow, who went to be with the Jeks, had met us: everything
associated with the Jeks seemed to run much more smoothly. This didn't
actually happen in any obvious way, but, subtly our good relations
with the Jeks took form. In a little while we could get Serenus deeper
in to the Jek's territory. 

Our acquantance, the nuclear-stoker,
was someone we sometimes heard of, too. He was working with the Nosurwey,
the Lud and some other people and traveling to all sorts of destinations.
The maps with markings and stars in them are not the perfect outhline
of the trail of this man. His habit of signing on ship after ship
made him difficult to keep up with. Traveling inter-galactically was
something he could handle better than some of us can and in his adventures
he crossed paths with many an alien critter. All the while his sustenance
stemmed from his simple attitude about ships, which was that they
are all very much the same to operate. Anywhere the air held some
oxygen and was free from any major toxicity would do for matters in
regard of doing business. In his opinion, or maybe it was his experience,
man can adjust to all kinds of food sources, it was the atmosphere
that would determine the safety of the work.

I am not very clear
on what this character might have done for us. I am not even sure
if he had anything to do with our better fate in the years that followed.
I am not sure if he merely stoked the ships of the others or if he
worked on as part of the crew unless the ship had performance troubles,
before he did something of the nuclear nature. What about those repulsive
tunes he enjoyed singing in his poor voice? Did he utter the jangles
in front of the other people, too? Our good luck in dealing with others
definitely increased after we met him, after we gave him a pass to
our ship, does this mean he was rewarding us for this? Maybe, it is
just that he was the magic token and we are being admired and even
rewarded by some higher power for our courtesies.

In the meantime,
I have become the captain of this ship, I am different. I have pedigreed
papers and I am not easy to find in my quarters. I love to stand on
the bridge and gaze into the outreaches of the stars. I ponder about
the death of the other captain as I do this and consider that he might
have survived if he, too, had stopped and taken the time to enjoy
the view out there. Maybe he could have stood the pressure for longer,
if he took breaks of wonderment as I do.

In my old age, I find that
I am more flexible about the failings of others, maybe they weren't
failings at all. The natives weren't supposed to sustain a loss greater than on the former occasion,
but the results lasted longer and were seared more painfully into memory. Three colonists
manning the guns on the eastern post were injured. Gardiner and Crook were dangerously hurt,
and Tines succumbed to his wounds. Although three bullets penetrated the Agent's clothes, he
fortunately escaped unharmed.

In this period, surgical knowledge was scarce and rudimentary, with little skill and no instruments
available at the settlement. While James's powders and febrifuges were widely available, there
were no provisions for broken bones and removing shards of metal from injured limbs.
 

The king instantly became hysterical with laughter.
"Trueth!" he said and turned to Kate, "thou art the shrewdest maiden in my kingdom." Turning to
the baron he said: "This lady spoke the truth, and the goose shall only lay golden eggs." And
thusly was Baron Von Dunderhead and his case dismissed. But he went even further than this and rewrote the text so that
the language became that of the 1400s rather than the 1300s. It was the only way to make it
work with his planned sequel, about which he wrote, "I feel inspyred
to make after the booke you hold in your handes another, which shall
be typesette in this same printer, and of its chapteres and tables
have some parte.

For some and another reason, I do not wish to put my book next to his." As he states, the next
book opens with an empty page, which is followed by a new title. His index is nevertheless
combined with the other seven books together in a single alphabet. A more detailed index, where
each of the books has a separate alphabet, can be found in the printing of Wynkyn de Worde.

The Polychronicon is one of Caxton's larger works, even laying aside the idea that this "Liber ultimus"
was the only work that sprang from his pen a total original, and in his bibliography the Prohemye,
he mentions the Polychronicon and Golden Legend as a pair of "notable" histories. More copies
of these have survived than those of any other books, possibly due to larger printings. There
are over 40 Polychronicons catalogued in the 1909 "Census of Caxtons", while his smaller printings
often survive in no more than one copy. On top of these 40 there are another 48 which were sold
at auction in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, but which
he could not connect to a known copy.

For example, the copy I am using was purchased in New York in 1868, and one of its previous owners
has inscribed their name on its inner cover. It was rebound by the most recent owner in the
finest cover available to the Victorians, with a leaf approximating standard letter paper.

Other copies of this work were bound in the same general way, for example a copy purchased in New York
in 1876; for this reason the "Census of Caxons" incorrectly conflates
the two. The opposite opinion still has its
believers, even of well-educated men across the globe, at least in all democracies and constitutional
monarchies. The principle that institutions similar to those of Britain may be safely imposed
on other countries is the guiding principal in the encouragement of revolutions in other countries
such as Belgium, Portugal, Span, and many South American republics. Among these states alone
can we now look for support and alliance.
The failure of these alien institutions in all of these countries (The aggressive and hostile
United States, the failure of the English system in Ireland, Spain, Italy, and Latin America) has
not changed this erroneous opinion among most of the men in this country.
Apparently, several generations must pass before these ideas disappear from common thought through
experience and suffering. Men vainly and proudly cling to their beliefs even despite the clear
evidence of wisdom and experience. The Roman Catholic Church was correct in saying that pride is the
most difficult sin to conquer in a man's heart.
An example will here illustrate how Montesquieu supported the other view point, that the institutions
of a society are influenced and formed by the particular character and history of a nation, and not
the other way around. For example, primogeniture, even thought it was alien to the Romans or
most of Northern Europe came to be universally adopted within the
feudal system and the rise of military aristocracy in every European
country. This endeavor again to bail the press seems to have
induced
" A Letter to an associate of legislature displaying that a guarded
Press is incapable to walk with tha Protestant Believers and harmful
to the autonomies of the Country." They are located enlightened in a goblet-plain
talk, of substance No. 3. Unexampled of them is conceivably the most debilitated stridency in
exposure, and is an astonishing signet of unerring serious wampum. It bears in a cartridge
the turkey shoot draw of Amenophis I. and has a label on moreover element.
 46. While there are kids to be baptized,
the Parents shall provide awareness thereof more night, or in the morning ahead of the commencement
of Morning Prayer, to the Curate. And after that the Godfathers and Godmothers, also the people
with the kids, should be prepared at the characters, either instantly following the final session
at Morning Prayer, otherwise without delay following the final message at Evening Prayer,
as the Curate by his judgment shall assign. Furthermore the Pastor coming to the Font, (which
is next to be filled with clean Water,) and standing nearby, shall
say, Hath this kid, &c.  
The use of the sound 'Priest' at this
position should not be taken to go away out the ministration of a
Deacon in the lack of the Priest, in to the extent that the Ordination
Service empowers a Deacon to baptize.

However it seems to keep out the ministration of a Deacon in the existence of the Priest.

The font ought to be filled right away before the Baptism, so that the water might be unpolluted
and new.
The authorized uniform for the Priest is a surplice and a stole.
It is the tradition of several Churches to utilize a shell for bucketing water on the youngster;
along with it ensure the application of adequate water. It is handy, in addition to the distinction
of the Sacrament, so as to when it is ministered according to the rubric at Morning or Dusk Prayer,
the Priest ought to be attend to the font by two or more of the choir, who will give him the
crust, or napkin, or grasp the book while necessary.
147. If they reply, No: After that shall the Priest carry on as followeth. Dearly beloved, &c.

148. Next shall the Priest speak, Let us pray.
By the words 'Let us pray,' the common congregation, with those instantly concerned in the Baptism,
must stoop, the Priest continuing to stand.
The Collects, Enormous and Never-ending God,' and 'Almighty and Everlasting God,' should be said
by the Priest lone, the public saying 'Amen.'
149. After that the populace stand up, and the Priest shall say, Listen to the words, &c.  
150.
Following the Gospel is read, the Minister shall formulate this short Refrain leading the terms
of the Gospel. Adored, ye hear, &c.
151.

 After that the Priest shall talk unto the Godfathers and Godmothers
on this clever.

Extremely adored, &c.
152. Then shall the Priest utter, O kind God, &c.
In the manuscript of 1549 the mark of the Cross was directed to be prepared in the water at
the words 'Sanctify this spray of Baptism,' which match to and be in matter restored in the
vocabulary 'Sanctify this water' in this plea, introduced in the amendment of 1662. It seems
for that reason permissible to re-establish also the act of consent which previously accompanies
the terms currently restore into matter.
153. Next the Priest shall receive the Child into his hand, also shall
say to the Godfathers and Godmothers,  
Name this Kid.  
154.
And after that naming after them (if they shall verify him that the
Child can fine bear it) he shall plunge it in the Water discreetly
and cautiously, saying, N. I baptize thee, &c.  
155. I know everything. You were a kid then.
Holding to the trunk of a lifeless tree, with her face turned toward the water, she moved even
farther from him. The dark rush of wind from it blew her hair upward
and moistened her forehead.I The submission was made, and the court decided in
favour of Pennsylvania. Nevertheless Connecticut gave intense indications of dissatisfaction
with that determination; nor did she emerge to be totally resigned to it, by negotiation and management,
something like an equivalent was found for the harm she meant herself
to have sustained.

Nothing here said is intended to convey the slightest reprimand on the conduct of that State.
She no disbelief genuinely whispered herself to have been injured by the certitude; and States,
like individuals, acquiesce with great reluctance in determinations to their disadvantage. Those
who had an opportunity of seeing the inside the transactions which attended the controversy
between this State and the region of Vermont, can vouch the opposition we experienced, as
well from States not interested as from those which were interested in the petition; and can
confirm the chance to which the amity of the Confederacy might have been exposed, had this
State attempted to assert its rights by might. Two motives preponderated in that opposition:
one, a suspicion entertained of our prospect faculty; and the notice of certain individuals of
induce in the neighboring States, who had obtained grants of lands under the actual government
of that borough.

Even the States which brought mail claims, in contradiction to ours, seemed more solicitous to
dissect this State, than to start their own pretensions. These were New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
and Connecticut. New Jersey and Rhode Island, on all occasions, discovered a balmy zeal for the
independence of Vermont; and Maryland, cultivate alarmed by the appearance
of a connection between Canada and that State, entered intensely into
the same views.

  There are three sub-orders proposed by A. Lameere: Cantharidiformia, which consists of
Phytophaga, Hereromera, Rhynchophora and the majority of Sharp's categorisation of Polymorpha;
Staphyliniformia, composed of rove-beetles, carrion-beetles and the
remaining families of Polymorpha; and Carabidiformia, also known as
Adephaga.

The basis of this categorisation is based upon formations of the abdomen, the arrangement of
veins in the wings, a count of malpighian tubules along with other features. Kolbe's classification
may be better than Lameere's because it takes into account more adult characteristics as well
as the larval stages. Kolbe acknowledges additional sub-orders: Adephaga; Heterophaga (including
Staphylinoidea, Arctinorhabda, also known as Lamellicornia, and Anchistopoda, also known as
Phytophaga, which includes Ladybirds; and Rhynchophora.
Those studying the Coleoptera cannot concur on a classification methodology, nor on the specialization
which can be considered by all concerned as natural. Lameere regards some Cantharidiformia
as basic Coleoptera. Rhynchophora, or weevils, are in a distinct group based on Horn and Leconte's
classification, because of their 'primitive' form. Kolbe however believes weevils are the most
specialized beetle, especially as the adult form develops from the
substantially different limbless maggot.

Kolbe also believed the Adephaga, with its chitinous larvae with two clawed feet, as the most
basic beetles; there cannot be much disagreement that strong similarities between larvae and
adults can be characterized as a 'primitive' marker. Coleoptera is a very well-established order
with very few members that do not exhibit some form of specialization during their life cycles.
Therefore it is not possible to constuct a series with clearly defined boundaries.
 I don't think he had a clue about how I respected him.
I wonder if he saw through my excitement every time I was around him.

If he did, he never showed it. I really thought he was angelic, and that's not blown out of
proportion. I pictured him as the most romantic of Shakespeare's characters, and was delighted to
spend any amount of time with him. Other boys were not at all interesting to me, it was only him
in my eyes. I was totally in love, and I'm positive I would have died for him.
******
SHELLEY'S GENEROSITY
A friend of Shelley's told about his generosity, at one point in his life, Shelley sent him
money to get by. He appreciated the money, which was a hundred per year, even though he was making
about a thousand a year. He was grateful for the extra money, and used it until he was making
enough money of his own. Shelley had even sent him fourteen hundred pounds to pay off his debts.
He admitted that Shelley's generosity did spoil him a bit, because he hadn't quite learned how
to manage his funds.

And the extra money was always there. Imagine how shamed the friend was when he learned about
Shelley's dire circumstances in later years. The sickness and pain he was in. At his funeral
service, the friend learned that Shelley was poor at the end, but had never once asked for help
from anyone. Had the friend known, he would have emptied his pockets to help Shelley, knowing
that Shelley had done just that, to help him.
MRS. JORDAN
Mrs. Jordan was a restrained woman, diligent in her ways. She complained about how young country
girls went without education, instead romping around in the hay. Mrs. Jordan was always dressed
in a bib and tucker, and a pinafore, fit to make any man surprised at her appearance. To see
her dressed like that, eating a slice of buttered bread, crying and staring at the bread as if eyeing
the very piece she intended to bite next, was indeed a lesson against will and hunger worth
a hundred Sunday sermons. No one could compare to her demeanor, when she was sweet, she was gentle,
kind, and one you could confide to. The way she would touch a friends face before she kissed them,
or encourage happiness when they were feeling blue, was amazing. She would sing beautifully
as she worked in the house, sweetly she sang to herself, "Since then I'm Doomed", or "In the dead
of the night". Her soft mellow voice---excuse me, reader. Tears are
welling in my eyes at the memories, it's as if she plucked happiness
from the moments of her life, and now they are gone, just like her. Protestant mission sites in the Ornge free Sites is confiscated
is one of the instances and another was best described as a raid carried out about forty years
ago by Transvaal Boers on the inoffensive Bechuana tribe, whose chief and many people accepted Christian
faith through the teaching of Moffat, David and Livingstone and evangelists. The reason for
that raid was report that Bechuana chief had exchanged some 400 guns for traders to fight the
Boers.An ultimatum was sent by Boers to surrender all these weapons.

In spite of protestation of the chief and his people that only eight guns had been barted for hunting,
which latter on found to be true, a commondo under commandant Paul Krugner, now president Krugner
was sent.

 In the operation, many of the natives were slain, their villages
were burnt, their cattle seized and great number of tribes were taken
captive for use as servants among the Boer farmers in the Transvaal.

This raid was followed by the total destruction of Moffat"s mission station-Church, school buildings
and industrial shops. After being looted these were consigned to flames so also the missionary
dwellings and amonst them was that of david Livingstone, with his furniture, books, and belongings.There
are enough records to ahow that besides Bechuana nation, that barbarous and idolatrous peoples
are ameanable to christanity voluntarily. Operation of civilised and liberal governmental
authority resulted in immense aid fro moral and economic advancement.This
resulted in represssing slavery and proprietary rights and justice
were equally afforded to black and white and Gospel might have free
course without constraint and without inducements of material advantages.

It happened that such conditions were on the eve of eventuating for the rescue and freedom
of darkest africa.This what all the devoted servants including Moffat,Livingstone, Colliard
had prayed for all their lives,what has been and it is still is the burden of the prayers(Without
doubt inspired) of millions of Christians.
 

his exhortation was, I suppose, the casuation for the sancationing of the national press. On
June 23, 28 Eliz, 1586 (as opposed to 1585 quoted in Strype), {426} Archbishop Whitgift and
the Lords of the Privy Council from the Star Chamber legislated principles towards the purpose
of counteracting corruption in the printing profession. No pressworks were to be located anywhere
other than in London (though one each was permitted in Universities); and no tome was to be
printed until it was reviewed by the Archbishop of Canterbury or the Bishop of London; with
an exemption favoring the Queen's printer, and works of non-statutory law, which were to be obliged
by the Chief Justices and Chief Baron, or either of them. Overarching and absolute jurisdiction
regarding search for proscribed books and printing works was also granted to the managers of
the Stationers' Company (see Strype's Life of Archbishop Whitgift, 222.; Records, No.XXIV.)
It came to pass that on July 1, 1637, an additional mandate of similar substance was issued
by the Court of Star Chamber. (see Rushworth's Historical Collections, Part ii. p.450.) The
Long Parliament, in spite of having disestablished the Star Chamber, appears to have had no
more progressive attitudes regarding Freedom of the Press than did Queen Elizabeth or the
Archbishops Whitgift and Laud; for come June 14, 1643, both Houses passed an ordinance barring
the printing of any injunction or resolution of either congress, without the express consent of one
or both Houses; or the publishment or vending of any book, brochure, or thesis, unless these
were passed and certified by such individuals as both or either House
deigned to commission for licensing the same.

(Parliamentary History, xii. 298.) The names of the officials appointed as such are listed in Neal's
History of the Puritans (ed. 1837, ii. 205.)
On September 28, 1647, the Lords and Commons enacted an even more stringent ordinance, which prescribed
suffering and fines for any person printing, publishing, marketing, or reading aloud any book, brochure,
treatment, song, potentially libelous tract, or newspaper, without
having been licensed by either or both Houses of Parliament, or by
persons authorized by same to perform such service.

Culpable vendors, peddlers, and "troubadours", were to be remanded for flogging as common criminals.
(Parliamentary History, xvi. 309.) Some light is thrown upon the likely motivation for the ordinance
by correspondence sent to the Earl of Manchester by Sir Thomas Fairfax, datelined "Putney, 20th
Sept., 1647." Sir Thomas deplores the existence of some printed flyers, maligning and slanderous,
to the Army particularly, and to the Commonwealth generally; and asserts his wish that these,
and similar tracts, be abrogated from here on out. (Lords' Journals, ix. 457.) Gilbert Mabbott
was, as a consequence, directed to be licenser of these sorts of weekly sheets as might be published,
but resigned the position on May 22, 1649 (Commons' Journals, vi. 214.) Evidently, he had onscientious
convictions against the assignment, for in other records is found, ascribed to the same date,
"Upon Mr. Mabbott's wish and motivations against the licensing of printed publications, he was
released from his post." (Whitelock's Memorials, 389.) On September 20, 1649, a parliamentary
ordinance was enacted enjoining printing in anyplace other than London, and York and Finsbury Universities,
without licensure from the Council of State (Scobell's Ordinances, Part ii. 90.); and on January
7, 1652-3, Parliament approved another ordinance for blocking the distribution of unlicensed
and opprobrious books. (Scobell's Ordinances, Part ii. 231.) In 1661, a bill for the administration
of printing was approved for passage by the House of Lords, but was then scrapped by the House
of Commons because the peers had attached a section excusing their residences from any searches;
however, in 1662, they passed the statute 13 and 14 Car.
 Consequently we distinguish the teachings of the prophet; where
we examine, that God acknowledges them for his people. They who are in the maximum suffering; are
alleged undeserving of men being there, are allowed within the undisclosed hollow of God.
 5. Charity has even helped be a cruelty against children. Mainly in England, poor street
urchins drive people to try and help, and helpless charities are available for the children
to be herded towards.

And those that lead this children are often using their apparent aid to gain credibility of
character in the world. England, of all countries, is notoriously scandalous, with its people
using poor children for personal gain. A Cirro-Stratus cloud is one of our most beautific forms of clouds
that glides along and attaches itself as if it were a parasite.
Twice, within the last two years while in New York City, the summer afternoons have displayed
large masses of clouds sweeping in from the southwest, laying low
in the sky, they could not be put into any previously described class
or recognized as such by meterologists.

These grayish hemispherical forms of large diameter could be seen in great numbers, they hung vertically
from a Stratus cloud or plane above them and seemed to be attached in some way. They had a distinct
yet regular shape and seemed to barely touch each other as they slid across the sky.
 It is basically accepted that there is a certain key to eating juby-juby nuts.
It is the discussion about how, when, and where to eat the juby-juby nut that causes a lot of friction.
Different people all claim that their particular methods are the right ones, pointing out those
that fail in their process of eating as proof that their own way is right. Among surviving Kakekikokuans
there are many different opinions, and conflict often arises among different factions even after
fighting a common enemies, all in an attempt to put to rest the argument over the best way
to eat their unique fruit.
Thanks to this an entire people are basically committing 'race-suicide.' Conflict doesn't arise
only from argument over the juby-juby nut issue.

Different issues - like how many beads a person should wear around his or her neck when visiting
the medicine man, whether the national custom of saluting the sun as it rises should be honored
when the sky is cloudy, or whether medicine-men are entitled to pick yams any day but Sunday - all
create strife within the Kakekikokuan people. These issues tear can tear people apart: people with
different opinions don't eat together or interact socially, and even their children aren't allowed
to play together.
However, there may be hope. A group of Church of England missionaries, sent by the Bishop of Zanzibar,
has come to the land. It is hopeful that their positive attitude and open-mindedness will help
open the Kakekikokuan people's eyes to their shared brotherhood.
********

********
Mr. Bernard Shaw, author of 'Pygmalion,' has been accused by German critics of plagiarizing Tobias
Smollett's novel, "The Peregrine Pickle." The accusation, however, is preposterous - Mr. Shaw
denies having ever even read Smollett's novel, and claims that such an accusation shows extreme
ignorance of English culture.
********
Mr. Spademan (of Woodnewton, Northants) put twelve eggs to incubate under a hen, and hatched thirteen
chickens. One of the eggs had two yolks, leading to the extra bird. All of the birds were doing
well, and the whole ordeal was a lesson to Mr. Spademan's hens.
****
The doctor said, "As a matter of fact, you shouldn't talk at all,
but that's asking a lot.

 Just don't say anything more than you need to."

With that he said 'good-bye,' and left the room.
While the patient was left to consider those instructions (wondering just how many words were
really necessary), the nurse came into the room.  
She said, "The
doctor's gone." 
It seemed apparent enough that this was true, so
the patient didn't reply. She looked out the window at the blue sky
and bright sunshine.  
"It's a really nice day." 
The patient
still said nothing, not falling for her attempt to strike up a conversation.
He did think, however, that he had made a similar remark himself the
previous day. 
"Do you want the paper?"  
"Yes," the patient said,
almost instantly regretting. He had waited almost fifty years for
that newspaper, surely he could have waited longer. At least the paper
would help pass time. It really is a great deal
less difficult, since Sordello realized, to imagine ascompared to accomplish. Genuine situations,
true to life, other folks thisall in which is situated spherical we all will be sterner products
ascompared to our own effortlessly moulded substance regarding desires. Who's not necessarily
sometime orperhaps some other lain sleepily during intercourse of your morning hours and also
been through inside considered theparticular techniques to getting upwards, right up until
any higher contact orperhaps a great alarum bell provides awakened theparticular realisation the
process just isn't but commenced? Which will not be lured to be able to shirk training regarding
some type inside thinking about any winning prize? Who's not necessarily at times created
the requirement increased and also increased right up until his / her calls for regarding fortune
are becoming so great in which, inside give up hope of earning excellent, he's got allow the
complete program fall apart into the pit regarding neglected desires? These kinds of risks,
the particular practically involuntary performing regarding not worth
aspiring, which were appreciated inside considered and also losing
vigor regarding genuine good results, pursuant to also effortless
a great indulgence inside blameless hope, are usually relatively clear
and possess for ages been recognized.

There is certainly one more that is noticed every so often and also sometimes portrayed. [16]
We've noticed in which also reduce any dream-world will make the entire world where we all
stay seem to be uninteresting and also normal. Yet just isn't the particular communicate no less
than normally correct? When our own thought-world will be also filter, also egocentric or
perhaps also vulnerable, almost all our own normal perform, appear and also lightweight even though
it could be, will be stultified, misdirected, usually lost. Everybody knows just how inside the professional
planet one thing greater than market is necessary; inside the mental planet one thing higher than
a clumsy and also unpretending goodwill. We'd like a specific perception to turn these kinds of
sound features regarding work and also experience for the finest
consideration.

"A guy's attain must go beyond his / her understanding, inches a fantastic poet shows us all,
and also the particular chickens or perhaps beavers usually do not carry on really blindly making
use of their constructing, yet.

Any time energy about energy continues to be damaged simply by wind
flow and also h2o or perhaps guy's interference.

They will eventually cater to theirparticular behavioral instinct to be ableto situations to be ableto
offer by themselves an improved potential for rewarding theirparticular further goal. Often we've
scarcely outgrown the particular beaver period: battles, incidents, condition, disputes--how
often times need to we all test once more the identical way which includes directed us all justbefore
directly into problems and also devastation justbefore we all set our own creativeness significantly
to be effective at the difficulty and also look for even fuller remedy? Of all risks regarding
the usage of theparticular creativeness, possibly the very best of most could be the fail to
put it to use, theparticular denial than it and its particular accompanying malnourishment.
ELIZABETH. METERS. COBHAM. [16] Mrs. Publication recognizes a great allusion to the risk, along
with for the initial, inside the safety measures in opposition to
covetousness inside the Tenth Commandment.

 THE PARTICULAR ENJOY SPIRIT[17]: ANY COMPLAINT.

[17] Start to see the write-up, "The Enjoy Character, inches inside the Nov problem. Along
with your contributor's outline with the enjoy the character, in which content discretion coming
from do it, yourself and its particular obligations so that moment and also considered and also
coronary heart could be filled up with larger ideas, nearly all the viewers can. I do believe,
totally consent, and also many of us can be thankful for the particular
spirited state for "play.

Inches Usually the one complaint that develops for the brain will be in which some professionalism
and trust, regarding patronage on the normal particular person, provides crept into the author's
considered and also peeps out there by lots of the content. "Common men"... "ordinary each day
person"... "average humankind, inches... "a worker" which... "cannot play"; can the particular
article writer with the Enjoy Character actually present us all what exactly is inside their
kisses? He could be a great performer inside terms. He could be an admirer regarding some other
martial art styles. He could be enthusiastic about pondering; this indicates just about difficult
to be able to your pet in which any person may have "freedom" minus the strength regarding
articulating that, without also the particular mind regarding the control. Many of us are also
appropriate, I do believe, to imagine which our very own findings with the puzzle and also wonder
regarding living are usually odd to be ableto yourself, or perhaps contributed simply using
a sympathetic handful of, handed down at times (by ab muscle handful of that had equally can and
also power to carry out so) to be ableto these kinds of with the outsiders since want adequate
to be able to access in which captivated me back garden and also acquire items as a result.
Yet have not the particular substantial finding with the very best performers, philosophers
and also educators recently been the "everyday people" carry out stay since significantly
and also generally because the thinkers and also performers?

They may be inarticulate and also cannot notify just what they will notice, yet in their
mind living is manufactured entertaining, orperhaps intriguing, orperhaps consecrated in accordance
with their particular personality. Who can point out justwhat the particular Cornish marine
methods to in which worn out member of staff? No less than this indicates any boldness, which is
practically insolence to choose justwhat that failed to suggest to be able to the girl! Have
not each leaving the revelations?
 Being made to
run in debt because of neglecting his business, and maintaining his mistress, he was forced to
fly into the low countries to secure himself since he was beginning
to be haunted by sergeants and bailiffs thus choosing to trust his
heels rather than his hands. Boil a leg of beef in
plenty of water until it's soft. Add two quarts of red wine, as well as two quarts of strong
beer. Add in cloves, mace and nutmegs, however much you feel is necessary. Peel, slice, and boil
some apples until they are tender. Break them up and then add half a pound of clean, unwashed
currans for each quart of liquor. Finally, add a pound of raisings and half pound of prunes.
Take out the beef and the rest is ready.
 

Vol. II. Pt. VII. ch. i. contains the sketch of the canoe.
In the introduction to RIBEYRO's History of Ceylon that the first people who settle Ceylon, arrived
from the coast of China. This information was rejected by VALENTYN,
ch, iv. p. 61. The earthquake spread up to 5,000
miles and shook the whole of Scotland. The English people were all alarmed and fasting and special
prayers are held in the Scott and Anglican churches. The earthquake in Tokyo 200 years ago
ruined the whole of Tokyo and more than 200,000 people died.

Again in 1855 same fate happened and a lot of people died. Inspite of all these calamities Tokyo
is now enabling Japan to play a vital role in world history. We can witness the upheaval of
great Mississippi valley by the graphic descriptions. The mighty river was stopped by the upheaval
and the banks of about 300 miles sunk under water
 I am constantly astonished by the earths capacity to take the sleepiest summers
day, the balmiest wind, the apparent quietest moment - and to suddenly catch it up, rend it asunder
and fling it aside with all the carelessness and casual cruelty of
a cat toying with a mouse.

I speak, of course, of the power and might of the electrical storm,
slumbering one minute, crackling destructively through the sky in
the next instant.

 

The earths energies distilled in purest form,the nearest we will see of the vitality that created
life from matter and gave it it form.
Poets of old find strange allies in modern science, both in awe and admiration of the phenomenon
found not only on earth, but throughout the known universe. Human life, human nerves are allied
to this force in some as yet mysterious fashion, as we seem to be in the thrall of the moon.
Whilst the rationality of scientific thought may one day find conclusive answers, humans know
instinctively to fear and respect this great natural force.
II We live our lives surrounded by mostly invisible forces that shape our natural world -
whilst sometimes in harmony with us, we are all too often in conflict with Mother Earth and
her forces. We try as a species to harness and to be the Master of nature, but events prove that
she can overcome us with a single swipe should she wish. The chemical elements that surround humanity,
can also overpower, the tsunamis, earthquakes, tornados, volcanic
eruptions - we must bow down towards the might of nature.

It is this very nature, the chemical and mechanical elements that make up our bodies - and make
them live - the air that we breathe, the food we ingest, the chemical reactions in our bodies
and brains, that make us as one with the planet and all that exists within in it, not separate
entities living shallowly on its surface, taking what we can with no redress given. The earth
has its ways of showing our species that, despite what we arrogantly would like to think, we may
not be the mightiest force on Planet Earth. 
It is only when what
man terms a 'natural disaster' takes place, that we realize that,
sometimes, nature could overwhelm even us. He
was just a clown for some people. But in Southern Europe he was held in high regard. They viewed
him as a sort of an ideal. He was always prompt, and in his approach, bold. He made himself
invaluable to anyone who was his superior. He was the very devil sometimes. He found favor among
the aristocrats not only by his wit but by his audacity as well. One could think of his as
a modern day Mephistopheles, affecting a supercilious attitude. People like Figaro become powerful
and no one is surprised about it. Actually, they seem to expect it of such people.
Fast-day in Boston was celebrated with an opera featuring Martha.

A more somber music would have been appropriate. There have been suggestions to use Masaniello
for high mass. Perhaps Don Giovanni would be suitable to celebrate St. John’s Day.
We are informed that a professor, who is famous for his humor and wit, and hails from a college
in western United States, is asked to deliver a poem at an assembly
of the Phi Beta Society, in Athens.

Do not be misled into thinking that this society with its Greek name is in Athens, Greece.
The Athens that we refer to here is not even the cultural capital of the United States of America.
It is a small, insignificant town. The professor will surely be disappointed when he finds
that the audience is not large, admiring enough to give him the pleasure of basking in their
adoration.
 However it seems to have huge power in foreign affairs and during a war it has a better
reputation. This happens because cosmopolitans have more external contacts than most people.
It all becomes a game of reputation and building relationships with the right people. Dr Kennicott
of Gopher would care about what Ezra Stowbody thinks and now about what Winston thinks. Basically
Dr. Kennicotts social set governs only in Gopher Prairie and Mrs Mingott is sensitive to the
social set governing the world. Both sets of people are socially sensitive.
The effects of the above are that even though Dr. Kennicott will make statements regarding the
larger society which appear to be created by himself, these opinions
are actually formed by High Society and ran down into Gopher Prairie
We will refrain from doing an in depth description of the social
tissue.

 The only aspects that should be remembered is that it plays a big
role in our spiritual contacts with the world through determining
factors for us such as; what is allowable and how it is criticized.

Judgment is dependant on affairs within the immediate competence. These judgments are decided based
on inheritance, transmitted or imitated factors from other social groups. The highest set of
people would make decisions for the great society. They make decisions on war and peace and
of social strategy and political power. Moral judgment occurs more often than constructive
thought. This is because position and contact are so important when determining our experiences
and perceptions of the world. For us ever to be able to think effectively we would have to eliminate
judgment and feelings and allow for nosiness and an open heart. However we need to be selfless
for the Great Society and that is impossible. We have an interest in public affairs but more
interested in our private affairs. The time and amount of consideration is limited that we can
spare for the labor of not taking views for granted, and we are going to have regular disruption.
CHAPTER IV  TIME AND ATTENTION  There have been studies regarding how much time people involve
themselves in informing themselves about public relationships. There are three studies and these
three happen to have similar results even though they were written at a different time and place.
- Hotchkiss and Frankin sent a questionnaire to 1761 male and female college students in New York
city. Most people answered and the results showed less 8 percent of people read the newspaper
less than 15 minutes a day and 17.5 percent read it more. - Scott sent a questionnaire to 4000
business men in Chicago. 70-75% of respondants thought 15 minutes a day reading a newspaper.
4% at less and 25@ at more.

However these figures are not based on accurate opinions so can not be taken too literally.
 The Queen has expressed her condolences to Mrs. Flora, but Sir James
Clark was not fired. The tide of public opinion strongly against the queen and her advisers, the
high society was disgusted by all this dirty laundry in Buckingham Palace, the public was through
the misuse of Lady Flora indignantly. At the end of March, popularity, and so bright and plentiful,
with which the young king began his reign, had completely disappeared.
No doubt, the lack of criteria has been demonstrated by the Tribunal. The
spectra of everybody known components, with the exception of a few gaseous ones, or those
too rare towards be yet elicited, possess been photographed within joint with the solar spectrum,
from the excessive ultra-violet down towards the D rope, and eye comments possess been made onto
a lot towards the limit of the solar spectrum.

A list of regular wave lengths of the impurities within the carbon poles extending towards wave
length 2,000 has been constructed towards quantity wave lengths beyond
the limits of the solar spectrum. After tying the arms of two young boys to
their horses at Pin, the Ulhans galloped off for a few miles literally crushing their knees. The
throat of one boy was cut and their heads were riddled with bullets.
At Sermaize a labourer, by the name of Brocard was arrested alongwith
his son.

 Out of sheer fear, the wife and daughter in law jumped into the stream
and Brocard was dragged away preventing him to save them.On reaching
home, four days later after being released, Brocard and his son found
the bodies of the two women in water with bullet wounds in their head.

Dergent, a parish priest at Aershot met the fate similar to Jesus. Stripped, tied to a cross in front
of the Church, his fingers and toes were crushed with the rifle butt. The local inhabitants
were forced to urinate on him in turn He was ultimately shot and his body thrown into the
canal. Other priests, his companions were made to busy Dergent where he fell
During the plunder at Herimenil, The inhabitants were confined inside a church for four days without
any meals. The Captain ordered fire on one such inhabitant, Madame Winger, aged 23 and her servants,
one girl and two boys, just because they were slow to proceed to church from their farm.
 Let no one accuse each
country punks for Eulenspiegle artifices, are the same.'
London, appeared in the year MDCCIX. The version I had ever seen was only one copy of the pre-Ritson,
and which I bought of Thomas Rodd, but my old friend Mr. Douce to later relinquished."
This copy, so no doubt now in the Bodleian. I have not heard of any other.
Eulenspiegel on the subject though, I Quarterly Review, versions of the Protestant and Romanist
some interesting comments would call attention to his correspondent, vol. xxi. p. 108.
I about it a very cleverly illustrated version was published in 1838 by Scheible of Stuttgart,
and that the opportunities of the information Hettlingischen (Caspar's Abel Sammlung Sassenchronik,
p. 185 a trip. Is) written in 1455, goes to prove that Dyll Ulnspiegel, 1540 as a comical
version Augsburgh styling, a fictional character, though under date of 1350 is a very serious
epidemic chronology through which the world raged the shows, and that "dosulfest sterff Ulenspeygel
Möllen to."
I travel to England's honor Murner am unable to answer queries.

 Most complete account of his life and writings, I believe, for their
version of the Murner Narrenbeschwörung imposed by Scheible, and
his dissertation satire ob der König von England EIN Lügner Sey,
oder der Luther.

WILLIAM J. THOMS.
Sir Edwin Sadleir (Vol. vii, 357 p. .).-- Sir Edwin Sadleir., Temple of Dinsley, Hertford, Bart in the
county, Sir Edwin (Sadleir's third son, was created baronet by Charles II.), Elizabeth, Sir
Walter Walker, Knt by the daughter LL.D. His older brother is dying in infancy; he succeeded
his father's death, in 1672, his reputation and wealth, and later married Mary, daughter and
John Lorymer, citizen and apothecary of London, and William Croone, MD widow of coheiress. The
woman set algebra lectures in Cambridge, and also lectures at the College of Physicians and
the Royal Society. (Hertfordshire, Chauncy page to see the ancient historical change .. 397, or
8vo edit., ii. 179, 180.; 325 Gresham Professor Ward is the 322 ..; Sir Ralph Sadler State Papers,
ii 610 .; weld history of the Royal Society, I 289 Sadler State Papers.) Sir Edwin Sadleir died
September 30, 1706 to have said: but that Lady Sadleir was the date of death, and according
to Ward, Sir Edwin Sadleir, survived him.

He died without issue, and after the baronetcy became extinct.
C. H. COOPER.
Cambridge.
Church (Vol. vii. p. 333.).--belfry tower separate from the body.,
Glamorganshire Llangyfelach parish of the church tower, the building
picked up some distance short.

Place in the legends, this is accounted for by a belief that Satan, in his desire to halt construction
of the church, it is often used as part of close as it was launched, and that He had just defeated
in length from two separate parts being made.
SELEUCUS.  
In addition to the bell towers unconnected with the
church, noticed in "N. & Q." DELIGHTED GARDENER
I was wandering so long and at last came to a Roman castle and there I was turned aback on seeing
a well built gentle man, standing, wearing Roman Royal costume with several gold and silk blended
threads through his shoulder and hip with a gold glit top cover on the staff. He was extraordinarily
staut and physically strong with a Roman nose. On seeing me he enquired regarding the purpose
of my entry. To my astonishment I was spell bound. When I was looking around I could see lot of
servants passing up and down the staircase just raising their eyebrows
and looking at me curiousoly, but asked nothing.

While I was standing there in such an amusement a mermaid apeared
and approched me and asked whether I required a job of a Gardener.

Quickly,I put my hand into my pocket in search of a few coins which I had, but felt sad as I could
not find it there. Then I could reconcile that the money would have gone While I was travelling
in the carriage by its jerk. Recognizing the presence of the maid and her enquiry, I sad,"Yes"
and agreed to under take the job of a Gardener.

After sometime a Gardener came uttering about good people and wanderers and gave me a lecture on being
a good worker and not to wander in the world anymore aimlessly as a fool. The final advice
was that I should turn up to be a good gentlman in the end. I was nodding and saying o.k. to
what ever he said and forgot all he said in the end. It was a surprise to me as how these things
happened and felt like a bird whose wings are clipped. However, I was happy and so I was enjoying
my livelyhood with my earnings.

 

I was very much delighted in my job as a Gardener. I earned enough and more money to have good food
and of course a glass of wine, though I had to work hard. The enchanting views of the pavillion
and arbors in the garden and the people talking and moving around, fascinated me very much and
wished to enjoy the same like them. When the chief Gardener was out of station, I used to have
a smoke with my small tobacco-pipe,lying down on the grass, looking at the sky with dreamful lovely
pleasent thoughts about the lady by whom he was guided to the castle. The passing show of the
clouds and the audio sound of the flies around was really a wonderful sweet atmosphere which
used to carry me back to my village. The lady who sometimes used to appear by walking with a
Guitar or a book at distance, visible through the tall grass around, was a heart filling sweet
sight and would suspect whether it was a dream or reality or not.
One day It so happened that, while I was going to my working place, by singing to myself -

"I gaze around me, going by forest, dale and lea, O'er heights where streams are flowing, My every
thought bestowing, Ah, Lady fair, on thee!"--
I was stunned to see two little glittering eyes of a beautiful young lady, fixed on me through
the semi-opened grills camoflaged with variety of flowers in the
garden. I was spell bound and slowly walked away by looking at something
away. One might observe
that although many of the bird tribe seem to be close to the residence of man for their domicile;
however, most of the time this bird tribe avoids cities and large towns mainly because there
isn't food for them. No statistical explanation of England has recently announced that we can detect, which
would give us something real picture of the current average rent
of land in this country [31], but we believe that all the information
we have been able to acquire for the consultations addressed to the
competent and knowledgeable people that can not be reduced to less
than 25 years. one hectare.

Since the last census we learn that Ireland Ireland contains 20,399,608 acres statute, and
that the rent is estimated at L12, 715 478 - give a little more than 12 years. As the average
rent.

[32] Taking into account that the tenant pays the tenth English - as in many municipalities,
amounting to more than all the average income obtained from Irish soil, which pays poor rates, and
which is heavily taxed by the highway Toll and other local assessments, and that the Irish
tenant does not pay tithe, and only half of the types of poor, there are no toll road, a lone
exception them near cities or large towns, which, in fact, only tax that the county pay is late,
which vary in different counties in ten pence to one and sixpence per acre every two years and
that this assessment will be greatly reduced under the new laws of the grand jury, under which
towns and Knights homes value and pay taxes - when we say all these things are taken into account
and also the land in Ireland is obviously better and more productive than English soil we
believe we have successfully sold in a serious accusation against the host Irish and we have
shown that it can be exorbitant financial burden, as he complains, which makes a big difference
between the social status of Irish and British occupiers.
No doubt it will say - "Yes, but the tenant is English, and their exploitation remain in good
condition, as owner, while the Irishman is forced to do it all yourself!" This is true, but
certainly the accession of the Irish tenant farmer on his farm, but it makes a small addition
to their other commitments. Gates and fences, which has, in relative terms, no, and if shown
to him, he soon suffered to go to ruin.

 Briefly she looked out of the window into the dark night.My poor heart was shaken with delight,
and I strained my eyes looking into the blank darkness that loomed large.Daylight brought
the chores of the day into focus and the reality of routine reduced the shaky feelings of the
previous night.With rewened commitment I pursued my work and totally
immersed myself in it.I spent more time working with the youngesters
and also decided to prepare a composition for the next day knowing
fully well that it would require a great deal of concentration and
many hours of hard work.

 I built a protective armor around myself but the evening again brought
a feeling of void that left me distraught.Mr Fairman was not at home.

Idid not feel comfortable there and decided to go down to the village.I did not want to upset
myself too much and avoided visiting the distant house.I had very few friends and contacts in
the village but there were some special friends of the incumbent's daughter.I made my way to
one of these favourites simply to pass time that hung on me painfully at home.For some time I
discussed general topics with the elderly female of the house; then a chance observation with
reference to Miss Ellen escaped my lips. The village took up the theme at length.
 "At least I'll get one West Pointer in.

Mount a man and send him to the school with this message; kill horses if he must, but be there
before sunset to-night and say--"
"Don't worry, I have already laid a wire to the school. Shall I connect you with it?"
It sounded good to me! With all this telephone and lightning communication, I was alive again. I
then realized, what a dull, inanimate horror this land had been to me, and how I had been
in such a stifled condition to have grown used to it.
I gave my order to the superintendent of the Academy personally. I also requested some paper
and a fountain pen and several boxes of safety matches.

I was annoyed with doing without these conveniences. I wasn't going to wear armor any more,
and therefore could get at my pockets.
When I returned from the monastery, I found a an amusing sight: the abbot and his monks were gathered
in the grand hall, observing with wide eyes the performances of a new magician, a newcomer. His
outfit was oozing fantastic; as the showy and foolish Indian medicine-man
often wears.

He was mobile, muttering, and gesticulating all while drawing mystical figures in the air and
on the floor,--typical magician behavior, you know. He was a celebrity from Asia--he announced.
That sort of testimonial was as good as gold, and accepted currency everywhere.
How cheap his gimmick was: his specialty was to telling what any individual was doing at the
moment; and what he had done at any time in the past, and of course what he would do at any time in
the future. He asked if any might like to know what the Emperor of the East was currently
doing? The delighted rubbing of hands made eloquent the answer--the crowd was sitting on the edge
of their seat. The fraud went through the regular paces, murmuring and so forth, and then suddenly
made the grave announcement:
"The high and mighty Emperor of the East doth at this moment put money in the palm of a holy
begging friar--one, two, three pieces, and they be all of silver."

 A buzz of excitement broke out around the hall-- 
Would they like
to know what the Supreme Lord of Inde was doing?

Yes. He told them what the Supreme Lord of Inde was doing. Then he told them what the Sultan
of Egypt was at; also what the King of the Remote Seas was about. They named it, he spoke it, never with
any hesitation. I concluded that if this went on any longer I should lose my supremacy, this fellow
would woo my sheep, I'd be left out in the cold.

I must put a cog in his wheel, and do it right away, too. I said:
"A question if I may, I should very greatly like to know what a certain someone is doing."

"Speak, his name and you shall know."
"It perhaps might be impossible..."
"Impossible is the possibility of that. The more difficult it is,
the more certainly will I reveal it to you." 
You see, I was stoking
the flames of interest. It was getting pretty high, too, as evidenced
by the craning necks all around, and the half-suspended breathing. In order to diminish the capacity of the pumps in the dry
season, the object of the adjustable stroke is applied. During this, each line of pumps is
driven from a crank. The crack is placed on a steel spurwheel sheft
that makes ten revolutions per minute and is 15 inches in diameter. Thus was Polia and
my treasured life. Forever accosting her with profound sighes and heart-rending sobs, cutting through
the viscous atmosphere, sequestered in the shadowe of gargantuan arches and coverings, occult
and Cimmerian, I said so to my own selfe.. By summer's end, the German Army and high command had come to the
truth that the war was a lost cause; and on this realization, they
returned to US President Woodrow Wilson's League of Nations proposal,
that they had rejected a year and a half previously, and to the "Fourteen
Points" program which had met such a frosty reception the previous
winter.

 It tells the story of Aeneas and Dido. 4. What myth refers to "his word is more
than the miraculous harp? 5. Gonzalo Commonwealth - its origin from Montaigne. A common assumption
that Shakespeare must have taken this reference from the translation. He could have taken directly
from the French. 6. Show bearing the words of Sebastian, "I am standing water, with its context.
(That is, at the turn of the tide between flow and complete.) 7. 'The man I' moon ', and the
folklore of it. 8. Natural history of the island. (Poet-Lore, April, 1894. Notes and news).
QUESTION FOR DEBATE
Is it a defect in the action of the play that the danger of the most important counter-argument
is dissipated so quickly?
ACT III
NEW conspiracies against PROSPERO
What is new are given the events in Act III? Scene i love continues to Fernando, and shows
no plans hinddrances not Prospero, but ii scene is a plot of Caliban, and iii scene shows Antonio
Sebastian and preparing to carry out the purpose for which they were initially defeated. To
account for the scene in Act II, which leads to this argument in connection with its sequel
in this event. Ariel is confused in its attempts to breed discord among the conspirators Trinculo
good by nature, but finally takes off with his music. Scene III represents Alonzo and his courtiers
confused and tired from their fruitless wandering through the island, and in just the temperament
to be confused by the pantomime and the Harpies. Consider the reliance
placed, through 'The Tempest', the effect of "solemn and strange music.

Plot of Antonio, which resumed, is blocked by Ariel's magic show and his indictment. Consider
how to improve the supernatural quality of the scene makes his speech affect their consciences
as if they themselves are accused, and how they are promoted in mental disorder. Dr. Bucknill,
a specialist in diseases of the brain, which has commented on Shakespeare's knowledge of such diseases,
said that frenzy Alonso takes a melancholy imaginative idea of suicide, while the folly of Antonio
and Sebastian stated in the idea of desperate struggle.

POINTS. 1. What is a 'catch' a 'drum? Give an account of music in the work, and demonstrate
the adequacy of their different effects on different characters. 2. Explain the allusions,
"Unicorns," "a tree, the throne of the Phoenix ',' mountain climbers 'with' bags of meat", etc
3. What is a vixen? To account for the mention of harpies in Virgil (Aeneid, Book III), and
"Paradise Regained" (Book II). What is not appropriate for the purpose of this quaint device
"?
QUESTION FOR DEBATE

Are counter-plots introduced in this act mainly affect the events or character?
ACT IV
THE CONFUSION OF THE PLOTTERS
Show how the history of Act IV consists of all that disturbs smooth patterns of Prospero, and
announces the complete reconciliation of the last act. The lovers, whose willingness to agree
to the plan of Prospero has made his work light so far as they are concerned, could only threaten
his and his future by early marriage, and Fernando, after stood the test of hard work, is now induced
a state of awe and holy spirit, produced by art, to keep your good resolutions. Describe the mask
and show their respect and their suitability for the purposes of Prospero. Why is Prospero so disturbed
the memory of a parcel as small as that of Caliban and his associates?

Is it likely that these types drunks could frame any frame that would be but as gauze before
his art? Is it natural that a creature as low as Caliban should show more intelligence than
Stephano and Trinculo to disengage "from Ariel stale 'set to catch them? What explains their caution
superior? Describe the device used by Prospero and Ariel to defeat these conspirators. Would it
be effective in an English stage?

POINTS. 1. Explanation of classical allusions. "Hymen of lamps", "Phoebus' steeds, 'Ceres,
Iris, Juno, etc' dark Dis", "Paphos", etc. 2. The botany of the Law IV. What is "stubble", "broom",
gorse? 3. Was 'Happy Online' a lime or a clothing line? 4. Explanation
of the jokes of the act. 5. Natural History blind mole on the island
again: "," lapas "," monkeys "," brown ", etc.  
QUESTION FOR DEBATE
Why is the punishment provided for the conspirators and lower
body for more psychic?  
ACT V  
Prospero TRIUMPH  
Sum the
results accomplished by Prospero's magic. Note Gonzalo account of
the work, and display the results ethical, and part of Ariel in Prospero's
time for reconciliation. Explain how, if Prospero had recovered his
duchy and yet, if 'all of us', says Gonzalo, we had not found, the
victory would have been material, not ethics. The
men from Silwa bore cross-hilted swords, most with a dagger fastened
above the elbow; others still have clubs scaled or spiked; and it
is not unknown to find guns; though the shot and powder needed for
their use is far more rare.

 Ismaeen and Abd-el-Mahjid, our guides, both carried single-barrelled
fowling-pieces and were expert shots, as we saw when we witnessed
them shooting hares.

In fact, thanks to them we ate hare every evening. They were cautious with their limited powder
supplies and would only fire when sure of making a hit.
 Where Marlborough left the thread of events, he takes up from
there; only at the peace of Utrecht he makes a start. Even if he had set off at the Revolution,
the case would have mostly been the same, since he is not by nature a military historian. Lord
Mahon’s powers have been put forth, since he concentrated on domestic story that is on the
illustrations of parliamentary contests or court intrigues and not on military events. A lucid,
judicious, and well-designed narrative of the British history has been given by him, with these,
as well as he could by his accomplished writing. The historian of Marlborough nevertheless must not
treat him as second to anyone including Louis XIV or William III. His Life should be included in
every schoolboy’s subjects as a separate work; otherwise we cannot say that justice has
been done to the hero of the English revolution.
 Teachers
in many schools have exclaimed: "How the hell does this man Rugby get to know all about us?"
Teaching is a spiritual work or nothing, and the director of the center should be at the greatest
teachers have been the head, a true leader of his personal spiritual things.  Our
profession is the most incredibly individualistic in the world. Probably the teaching of each subject
can be improved by establishing a reality organized cooperation between the teaching of several
teachers, and "politics" with its strong human appeal, with a leader worthy of his position, best
place to start. Teachers meet for a real educational purpose - and the last thing they ever
discussed in the Masters who have attended the meetings was educational principles - that would
learn to see in others minds and methods, broaden their intellectual sympathies and understanding
their differences. Thus, a real intellectual life of the company staff could begin. Often this
does not currently exist, and their absence is fatal to the school as an institution would be
intellectual.

And certainly, the need for tolerant staff can hardly be exaggerated.
And we're not thinking so much of war and controversies of the next few days. After the war
a source lower than even the crudest jingoistic patriotism is to monopolize the political thought
of the public school for the defense of "country", but of the property.

 The unorthodox not be denounced as "appeasers", but "socialist", and
the enemy will not be the Kaiser, but perhaps the Prime Minister of
a Labour government.

But as the only hope for the world after the war seems to be in a League of Nations as England's
only hope lies in the cooperation of all classes in a common pursuit of industrial justice.
Public schools are "conserved class" of the rich, and their opportunities for good, for damages,
will be almost unlimited.
"To turn the youth of the capitalist class with all its prejudices intact is pure capitalist dereliction
of duty by public school teachers." So he wrote a great teacher of the previous generation.
The obvious way to destroy the prejudices and biases is an enthusiastic and capable exposition
of the various forms of socialism. The best way to make the socialist teachers. But, assuming
that the social teaching is false, why are not socialists who fear for the result?
Is a necessary part of the system which in turn must make a reasoned defense of a reformed capitalism.

If this is done "to young people of the capitalist class" may be a result anti-socialist or
socialist, but at least go out in the world men of a certain economic understanding, with points of
view based on reasoning and reasoning over or experience which may be changed, not men with
the prejudices of the era intact.
If we assume in our staff a general inclination toward freedom of opinion, anything is possible.

A hundred questions of the organization emerge, mainly practical, and easier to solve the specific
experience of literary methods. You can, however, while worth a look at some of them.
Teachers will always be human, and political education should be organized so that in every way
suggest that teachers of divergent views are cooperating on a comprehensive program of political
education, as none of them alone could provide, not compete by the
political loyalty of the boys.

 

A school is not a farewell to the elections in permanent session. Thus, although a controversial
element is forced into the political education that could mitigate this element does not allow
any way to go to more than one teacher for political work. The child will move from one form to
another, and hence the conservatism of a summer course will be moderated by the radicalism
of the winter.
But these political compartments will not be particularly tight in any case. The Lord of the house
will be a lasting influence, and when a child genius live just out of the way of an understanding
teacher, it is unlikely that a total lose contact with others.
At the top of the school, however, the item in question must be accepted
with greater candor. We believe in the permanent institution of a
voluntary political class in which the best kids listen again to the
best of teachers who have taught them on their way to school. She looked at him casually one more time, seeing that he was begging, that he was
holding out his hands in her direction but without the courage to touch her. "How can I prove
myself to you?" he asked.

"Sir ... Mr. Dimitri ..." she started, "when you showed up to speak with me -- just two days
ago! -- I don't think you could have possibly ... I mean surely you couldn't have already had
these feelings ..."

Sanin Dimitri spoke as soon as she paused in her remarks. "I had them, absolutely, though I wasn't
very aware of them. I love you, have loved you from the first moment you appeared to me, even
though I didn't know how important you were becoming to me. I'd heard, though, that you were
engaged and serious about it. And further, I would never refuse your mother's wishes -- how
could I say no? -- and have done what she asked in a way that you'll find most predictable."

There was the sound of a weighty foot stomping, and a relatively fat but respectable looking
man (who appeared to be from some other country) came out from behind the rise, a backpack over
one shoulder, to gawk, with a tourist's lack of concern for politeness, at Gemma and Sanin as
they sat there on the bench in the garden. The man then coughed, and moved along on his way.

 Sanin started talking again as soon as the sound of the intruder's
feet retreated into silence.

"I was told by your mother that it would be scandalous if you ended your betrothal to Mister
Klueber." At this, Gemma grimaced a bit. Sanin continued: "And because I'd played my part in
giving people something to talk about, I had to, because of your mother, because of my concerns
for your reputation, advise you to marry your fiancée. Whatever I felt."
"Do me a favor, Mr. Dimitri, and don't refer to him, Klueber, as
my fiancée. He and I will never be married, and he knows it."

"He
knows it? You mean you've told him that? When exactly did you tell
him?"

"About a day ago."

"In person?"

"Yes, he came to visit us.
At the house."

"So ... Gemma ... does this mean you love me back?"

Gemma
rotated in Sanin's direction, a reply on her lips. The malarious or marsh toxin, which in our bleak latitudes creates
universal ague, in the warmer, remittent feverishness, and in unfavourable southerly localities
of Europe, (such as those of choked with population townships, where the heat has been progressively
for some time of an intertropical degree)--true yellow feverishness, which is nothing less than
the utmost level of malarious disease; but this has not ever happened in European townships,
if not as long as the driest seasons--seasons truly blighted by drought, when sultry withering land
winds have demolished covering vegetation, and as in the locality of Gibraltar, have left
the low-lying stranded, and leeward township to corrupt without perflation or ventilation amidst
its own amassed exhalations. I recognise not how I can better demonstrate the circumstances
of Gibraltar in these pestiferous times of the year, than by a quotation from a report of my
own on the Island of Guadaloupe, in the year 1816, which, though typed without any probable
source to the query at subject, has become more apposite than any kind other I could advance; "all
standard currents of airstream have the effect of dispersing malaria; when this purifying effect
is with-held, either through the contributing elements of time of the year, or when it not able
to be made to remove the land on account of the intervention of high mountains, the extra subjects
are most fatal. The leeward shorelines of Guadaloupe, for a course of close to 30 miles, under
the shield of a very precipitous ridge of volcanic outcrops, not
ever sensed the open ocean breeze, neither any breeze but the after
dark land-wind from the mountains; and though the loam, which I have
often appraised, is a surprisingly open, dry and wholesome one, being
mostly sand and gravel, utterly, and positively without marsh, in
the most hazardous positions, it is inconceivably pestiferous right
through the total tract, and in no position more so than the bare
sandy seashore close to the high-water mark.

 The colour sheltering population only ever endeavour to dwell it;
and when they observe unfamiliar persons tarrying on the shoreline
after nightfall, they not ever bungle to caution them of their danger.

 Can't anything be done to save the fish
swimming in the Connecticut River? There are companies manufacturing paper from logs in Holyoke,
Mass. and Windsor Locks, Conn. I'm told that these companies dump
chemicals into the river twice a day and it is affecting our fish
population.

These factories are located at the bottom of falls and this is where schools of fish swim.
The sand-bars and river shores are lined with fish that have died from the chemicals being
released into the water. There were three salmon found within two miles of my office that were
thought to weigh 12, 20 and 25 pounds!). There are so many dead fish lining the river's edge
that eagles are swooping in for them. In fact, at least nine eagles have been shot over the past two
seasons.
I am writing to you in hopes that the Fish Commissioner might stop these factories from dumping
their deadly chemicals into the river. Please save the fish in our river!
Yours truly,

Wm Hood East Windsor Hill, Connecticut October 13, 1879
******
Saint Stephen, March 1, 1880
Prof. Spencer F. Baird U.S. Commissioner Fish and Fisheries 
Dear
Sir, 
I am sending you remarks in regards to the Restigouche and
Saint Croix Rivers.

These remarks may be somewhat crude but they are either taken from official statistics or are facts
that I am aware of. If they are useful, feel free to publish any of them.
I would like to obtain some young shad for the Saint Croix River.
The elder generation believe the shad are much better food than salmon.
This fish was very abundant at one time. Restocking the Saint Croix
with shad could be successful like it was in the Connecticut River. (1 Samuel 20:3; 1 Kings 1:29.) An entreaty to God, either
personal or through an agent, in corroboration of the verity of a
claim or promise, constitutes the swearing of an oath.

As already stated, a conspiratorial alliance may be without an oath being sworn. But we are
unsure that any such thing has ever existed. Odd-Fellows have maintained that they require no
inaugural oaths. In the oration published by the Grand Lodge of the United States, alluded to heretofore,
this promulgation is presented: "No oath, as was thought once to be madnatory, is asked of
the candidate."

(Appendix to Proceedings of the Grand Lodge, 1859, page 10.) Nevertheless, Grosch, in the Odd-Fellow's
Manual (which he authored), refers to an "supplication unto Heaven" in the initiation into at
least one of the several degrees of membership.
 The forgetfulness of God will never be tempted by cruel, deceiving foes. The
growth of knowledge will not exhaust the mind or ones energies. No matter what heights we scale
to, no matter what mountains we climb, dreams we realize, there will always be more obstacles
ahead of us. There shall always be new wonders, truths and fresh objects to bring out the potential
in our mind, soul and body. He also had to destroy the vessel, as it was no longer seaworthy as
it sat in a state of disrepair.

On multiple occasions, his groups went to the shore to gather essential water, but their efforts
were easily blocked. He stayed in James River for five to six days before departing, at which
time the Governor disbanded his forces and send word back home accusing the masters.

After the 1672 war, the English leadership took this experience as an opportunity to send two
armored ships to Virginia, which were protecting a group of merchentmen near the James in July
of 1673 when nine Dutch ships were seen nearing the capes.

A battle was imminent, with tobacco ships being repurposed and armed
with weapons.

The bigger vessels summoned assistance from the crews of weaker ships, but they were not able to
prepare fast enough to prevent the enemy from anchoring at Lynhaven Bay.

Unaware of the dangers, a Maryland fleet of eight began approaching the Dutch, and it became apparent
that the time for action was upon the English. Until then, they were not fully cognizant of
the predicament, believing that the men-of-war would be able to defend the fleet as it pulled
back on the James or passed below the aim of Nansemond fort.
 Though
we called the Captain to us, it was Mr John Maddick who came first, followed by the doctor
and some others. On perceiving this the Captain also came. When the Captain left the ship,
many crowded very eagarly after him that all would have been spoiled
for us; but by chance we got off the boat with twenty-one people in
her and hanging to her sides.

Some were forced to slip; while others not being able to reach the ship perished on the cold
ice; where the rest were lost.
0n the 25 th of March, we bid a sad and miserable farewell to our suffering brethen, with the
heart of every one so overloaded with their own pain and misery that there was very little room
for others' pain and misery. After that we thought on the next course of action we deceided to
go for the shore.
Our provision, thrown overboard, comprised of a small barrel of flour, a five gallon rundlet
of brandy. We also took an old chest, which stood us good because we had but one oar and our
ship's handspikes.

So using a hatchet which was on the boat by chance we could split the chest and nail it to the
handspikes, to make our oars. Nails themselves were drawn from different parts the boat. The
rest of the chest was used to kindle a fire. Our main tarpaulin, which had been newly tarred, which
was put into the boat,was made a main-sail and a old piece of canvas which had been the sail to a
yawl was made the a fore-sail.In this condition we turned towards
the shore, and seeing the surrounding ice lie north and south, we
steered north and were clear of it by the morning.

Steering clear of ice we got into the ocean. The winds still being easterly, the sail was hoisted
by us and the boat was steered west-north-west about fifteen leagues, when another field of
ice came up. Attempting to sail through these great islands of ice , they drove fast together and almost
enclosed our boat and our boat had to be hauled up on the ice. Otherwise we should have perished.

It was here that we lay for eleven days without seeing the sea even once. As the ice was thick
and there were seals in abundance, many seals were caught. The skin made our fire hearth and
the lean could be boiled with the fat that melted so easily.

The region was cold and the boat being so small too small to afford room for all, and the men lying
in it kept hurting each other. So there were lots of cries and complains of pain especially
in their feet. There was no real remedy to this. So we kept Watch in groups of six and six
both for making more room as wellas to guard aginst the ice breaking under our boat. Breaking
OF ice under our boat happened often and it became necessary to launch or carry her to a place
which we thought strong enough to bear her weight. In eleven days
we saw the sea, and, with great difficulty, got the boat out. I can only say that if this should be our spirit we are certainly
defeated.

 Where is our devotion to the sport manly, so powerful in the molding
of our national character?

What has been our immemorial right to see it? Where is our boasted liberty, with serious shortcomings,
we now have the opportunity to find the winner? What do WELLINGTON of Waterloo? Marlborough
and Blenheim? BOTTOMLEY and the Battle of the Somme? As the perversity of reasoning are thus to squeeze
the best instincts of our race?

He tells us to fight for everything that is sacred. However, there is nothing that holds more
sacred in all households across the country cottages that the preservation of our bloodstock. Let
us not deceive ourselves. It is our supremacy in the bloodstock only car that makes the governess,
the milk truck, car of the brewer, single plow.

These are fundamental facts.
It has been suggested that in order to avoid the crowds assembling frivolous in wartime, races
could be run privately. But it is absolutely impracticable. Only at the racecourse public
the virtues of our British bloodstock high on the screen. The presence thrilling the crowd is
absolutely essential to bring about its nerve and temperament. And our bloodstock has suffered
cruelly in the gaps in the Grand Stand.

Moreover there are some who actually complain that gasoline consumed in large quantities by those
attending meetings of the race. Are we going to put heart back into making our enemies know
that we are short of gasoline?

And finally there are some who understand so little the qualities of the thoroughbred as to suggest
that the game must be stopped in time of war. The horse, unlike the cabinet, is intelligent.
Can be expected to exhibit their valuable qualities of speed and endurance if nobody puts their money
up?
I have to say anything more. Such frivolous legislation is bad enough
at any time during the period of Armageddon is nothing short of treason.
One wonders if our government begin to realize that we are at war.
I am, Yours kindly, as always, statistics. 
* * * * * 
THE DIARY
OF A COORDINATOR. This stated idea was meant
to be shown by the word Most-High applied to the Syrian gods called Baals as well as to Jehovah.
According to this heavenas-based cult, the "Most High" resided in
the giant globe that held the spheres of all the stars and hugged
the entire galaxy that he ruled.

The Romanic peoples translated the name of this to show that this God was the highest.
This god's power was said to cover the expanse of all eternity. A singular tenant of all pre-Babylonian
astronomy was that all comic phenomena was caused or determined by the movements of heavenly
bodies and so thereby, sidereal influence. The changes of Mother Nature, as well as the minds of
humanity, were controlled as led by "Destiny" and, by the cosmic energies that lived in the dimensional
sky. As restating, the gods were invincible; they were the holders
of the reins of the universe.

The Baals religion was based upon the idea that this autocracy had yet held. As we have stated,
they were conceived after the image of an Asiatic monarch, and the religious terminology was
evidently intended to display the humility of their priests toward them. In Syria we find nothing
analogous to what existed in Egypt, where the priest thought he could compel the gods to act,
and even dared to threaten them. There was yet said to be a great expanse between these "gods"
and he common mortal, astrology only emphasized this by making them seem overpowering and almighty.
In the Latin world the Asian religious systems provoked and diffused these ideas over all the
planet Earth. Apuleius calls the Syrian goddess, "Mother Nature."
The watching of heavely bodies had, moreover, led theses astrologers to the arguable fact of a eternity
within which a person could be in the hands of God after death . The constant turning and revolving
upon axes of plants and other heavenly bodies was only to set their minds upon this thouroughly.
 It was not Christianity that ruined the empire, although it semed
so, the number of Christian believers was small and the empire was
evil and self destructing on its own.

 Now, I am going to
 explain you shortly what was happened there. Could you remember
about my resemblance when you first saw me as a first time? I
was appearing just in a sickly, plain, sad little girl. I was
standing at the avenue gate just twenty years ago? During that time,
"Le Pere Francois was brutally assassinated a fowl. He was falling
down by cutting his throat with a clasp-knife. He was terribly assassinated
for a poor thing that he was strongly struggled anxiously in
his seizes and his blood was flowed into the gutter. When he was
assassinated, a group of boys were looking on in great delight,
when Le Pere Francois was gossiping with M. le Cure, who didn't seem
to mind in the least. When I saw this fearful bloody scene, I have
been fainted with pity and horror. In that minute, suddenly you
came out of the school opposite with Alfred and Charlie Plunket, and
saw the entire situation well. Then you said with noble tempered tendency
and you called Pere Francois was a 'sacred pig of assassin'. Co you
remember that and it was very rude in French--and struck
him as near his face as you could reach. "Have you forgotten that?
Ah, but I have not so. I think that it was not a powerful deed. Perhaps,
if you could come so early, you will save him certainly.

But you came too late to save the fowl. Besides, when Pere Francois tried to attack you back again
and when he left some of the fowl's blood on your cheek, it was considered as a baptism. You have become
my hero on the spot. Also you have become my angel of light. Just you can go over there to look.
Is he beautiful enough? That was you, Mr. Ibbetson.  "M. le Cure said something about 'ces
Anglais' who has become mad when his horse was beaten by a man. Yet people are paying to box
each other to death. Don't you really remember? Oh, But now I am able to recollect them all!  "And
that little language we invented and used to talk so fluently! Can you rappel it to yourself?
'Ne le recollects tu pas?'As we would have said in those days, it was used to be thee and
you to be with us then.  Well, but as a special thing, in all such events, you should definitely
remember how we were living together in happiest situation for more than five years. You have
to also remember how you admired me and played with me. Beside how did you take part in my
life and in everything whether they are all right or wrong. Also you have to realize how did
you carry me and pick a back when I was in severe fatigue.

In all such these kings of your drawings, I have them with me all. And oh! Also you were behaving
sometimes so funny also. I know due to your funny activities how did you make my mummy to laugh
and M. le Major! Now please try to just look at Gogo again. Have
you forgotten what he is doing now?

But I have not so. He has just changed the musee des families for the Penny Magazine. Also
he is explaining about Hogarth's pictures of the 'Idle and Industrious Apprentices' to Mimsey.
Now they both are agreed that the idle is one and it is much lesser objectionable in these two.
Now a day, Mimsey is looking so in active especially in raising her thumb in taking with her mouth.
What is the reason? Actually she is not such a type. Now her little heart is completely bundled
with full of gratitude and love for Gogo. This is the reason, that she is always keeping silence and
she cannot speak as normal as she was.Now she used always suck her thumb for keeping her silence.
Now she has become so poor, sick and completely ungainly child!

 Now even she would like to be with Gogo as slave moreover she is
also ready to die for Gogo.

Bye the bye, Gogo’s mother enthusiastically adoring him.But she is having more jealous on dear Madame
Pasquier. The reason is she is having a very good and so sweet son. In just one minute from now,
when she cuts that last curl-paper, poor long-dead mummy will call Gogo and try to give him a
good 'Irish hug. Also she will make him happy for a week. If you are ready to wait a minute then
you can see there exactly what did I tell you now?  "Well, all that came to an end now. Madame
Pasquier has gone out once for all and he will never come back again as Gogo. Monsieur and Madame
Pasquier were already dead and dear mamma also going to be died in a week from the cholera.
Poor heart broken Mimsey will be taken away to St. Petersburg, Warsaw, Leipsic, Venice, all
over Europe. Her father due to his heart broken condition, he will be also with her there.
"It was her and her father’s wish that she should become a pianist by profession. So for this reason,
she studied hard for many years in almost every capital cities and she was getting practice
almost under every master in Europe. Due to her hard work and sincere practice, she gave promise
of success.  And due to these reasons, she was wandering here and there and from one place
to another place.

Since she was a young woman, she was easily inspired by every body and greatly spoiled and it
has been caused to become much-of young woman. Mr. Ibbetson, even though she is telling that
who shouldn't, she was having many suitors in all kinds and in each and every country.
 But the free Swiss would not obey, so the citizens of the Canton
of Zurich rose in their republican glory and marched to the city lead by a charismatic preacher,
and with weapons they had hastily collected. Scarring the Strauss group away; the group retreated;
then the citizens of the Canton of Zurich put the government in the trust of conservative Christian
men, and quietly withdrew to their mountain homes without bloodshed. The new government put
in charge Mr. Lange in the place claimed, but never occupied, by Strauss. Mr. Strauss recieved
half the salary until at least 1857.
Could a man in our own country have such influence over the American mind?
 But if you give the bottle I do not quit after all.
Here are the open windows. We capture all cold. Maybe you heard anything? I can hear those people
eat. What a project! Maybe you heard anything? Eaters hear quite clearly now. Santa Claus comes.
I think he is going to give us all the gifts.
Maybe you heard anything? I was given a diary. What are you? Another journal? 1921 is yours? So
is mine. How stupid! Christmas will be a year next Sunday, I see. So will our wedding day.
I hope you will remember this time. And Spring have arranged to begin on March 21. Think of it!
Spring - in less than three months!
There they go.
Hoot out boobs wild wild sky!
What a joyful noise! Much better than bells, indeed more accurately as an expression of feelings.
There is a kind of weak, but watching "note about it. And that's how I feel, rather. It was
a terrible year, indeed, was not - that last?, I mean. No money, no clothes - nothing but small
accounts rates and dentists and respect shown for our esteemed favor. A time of crisis .... But
I kept the flag flying. This year ----
Hello! someone will recite. What do you think will be? You will not guess. Yes, you're right.

Ring out a slowly-cause death and old forms of struggle for the party.
That sounds like a bit of government propaganda. Outrageous, I tell
her. If I was a wee free ---- 
Ring lifestyles noble manners sweet
---- 
This is a hit on someone, also I should not wonder. Someone
must have written a topical verse for the occasion. Those people are
still eating. I expect they are Hogg-money, or what is .... 
Are
still stubborn as ever about the fact that hot water bottle? Mallarmé's unique style of thinking set his writing apart from that
of others in a way that many find difficult to understand (if they
recognise it in the first place).

Rather than clarifying the relationshisps between concepts in his work, he left it up to the
reader to make the necessary connections in order to reach the conclusions he wished to emphasise.
Mallarmé felt little need to appeal to the wider literary community: he made no novel strides with
his work, nor did he concern himself with making his work easily
accessible to others.

 It was quickly realized that such operations were not sustainable
and permits were discountinued. Salmon eggs could only be gotten by the states through Canadian
government-controlled breeding programs; however, even then the eggs were priced so high that
the establishments were nearly themselves shut down.

It became clear by 1870 that salmon eggs needed to be sourced from somewhere new, somewhere as yet
undiscovered and untried. Such a source was found in Maine, where it was thought the Penobscot
river might be of use. Though the Penobscot was not as productive
as Canadian rivers, it might be made to yeild a hearty quantity of
salmon ova.

The Penobscot was studied prior to the start of operations. It was
found that the river was approximately 225 miles long. The
Boxers had changed their plans on finding that they couldn't carry the mission buildings by
assault, and now attempted to starve out the defenders. It wasn't often a single Boxer was
to be seen, even though there were hundreds within a stone's-throw. Every building that could
be spotted from the mission had a Boxer flag on it, and every house facing it had been strengthened.
From these houses the Boxers, fired on the mission, the residential
part of which was in a ruined condition.

To get from the platforms to the mission house was a work of danger, for some trained Chinese
soldiers, they could look down into the enclosure, they fired every time of the defenders was
seen. They used excessive amounts of ammunition, but without drawing the fire of the missionaries and
their friends.
Another week went by--quite possibly there worst week yet. Two more died from fatigue or starvation.
The mule which had drawn the missionaries' trap for some years, had been killed and skinned, and in
the course of two or three days the last of it would be eaten. When that was gone there would
not be aminiscule amount of food left. If it had not been for the women and children, the men
would have made a sortie and died.
'We must remain where we are for their sake,' Barton declared, and no one argued with him. Then
they tried to find a way to stretch what little mule flesh was left; but the rations were already
so small that it seemed impossible.

'What's that?' Charlie announced, suddenly. 'Didn't you hear anything?'
'only the shots those boxers fired off,' Fred replied.
'No, not that. I thought I heard someone cheering.'
'Imagination, I'm afraid,' Barton said, sorrowfully, but he had uttered the words when the sound
of firing in the distance was heard.
'Relief!' Charlie declared, excitedly. 'I'm certain it was an English cheer which I heard.'

'The firing is not in the town,' Ping Wang remarked, 'and look the
boxers are leavin.' 
The sound of the firing had clearly caused
the most excitement among the Boxers.

They streamed out of the houses and ran off towards the gates through which the advancing force,
would have to enter the town.
The sound of shots in the distance was now becoming louder, and a fierce fight was raging somewhere
near the town gates.

 Soon they knew that the force attacking the town was winning, Severeal
scared Chinamen ran off to find a place to hide. 
three fourths
of an hour after the first sound of firing was heard by Charlie and
his friends, a loud, undeniable British cheer rang through the air.

'They've come into the town,' Fred exclaimed, and cheered excitedly." His father, J.B.M. Doublet taught him music. Adolphe Liantaudis a noted
cornet player from New Orleans is known for the power of his playing and its unique purity and
smoothness. To check his next attack of malaria, though, we gave him a tube of
quinine.

With the long rest in San Giovanni, it began to seem impossible to get away from it. If caught by
the ever closing in Serbian government, there would be little left for us. That monday evening
we were sitting with the frenchmen, who, too, were depressed, and at last Tweedledum spoke-

"We shall be here forever, Paris is a dream."
"Oh," said Jan, unwittingly. "I think we shall be home in about a
week." 
Dum put on the elite French air, which is debasing even
in a good man. 
"Vous croyez?" he said. 
"I'm sure," said Jan.
"A dinner," replied Dum. 
"Good," said Jan. 
This offered a
new buzz to life. Gwendolen tells her mother that it is just the same as Christian wickedness
and Rex agrees with her saying that it is less shocking and part of
the past.

Rex follows this by asking about Briseis.
 First, Among the persons of grade nations inside the Mediterranean
district, encompassing Spaniards, Italians, Greeks, Moors, and the Mediterranean islanders,
very dark hair with dark eyes is nearly universal, scarcely, one individual in some hundreds giving
an exclusion to this comment with this hue of the hair and eyes is conjoined a complexion
of brownish white, which the French call the hue of brunettes.

We should observe, that all through all the zones into which we have split up the European district,
alike complexions to this of the Mediterranean nations are rarely glimpsed The features, really,
of weather are not so varied, but that even the identical plants are discovered sporadically,
in the North of Europe as in the Alps and Pyrenees. But if we make a evaluation between the
common hues of large figures, we can effortlessly find a succession of shades or of distinct hues.
Secondly, In the southernmost of the three zones, to the northward of the Pyreno-Alpine
line, namely, in the latitude of France, the widespread shade of colour of the hair is a chestnut
earth colour sheltering, to which the complexion and the shade of colour of the eyes withstand
a certain relation.  Thirdly, In the to the north components of Germany, England, in Denmark,
Finland and a large part of Russia, the xanthous kind, powerfully
assessed, is common The Danes have habitually been renowned as a persons
of florid complexion, azure eyes, and yellow hair The Hollanders were
termed by Silius Italicus, "Auricomi Batavi," the golden haired Batavians,
and Linnæus has characterised the Finns as a tribe differentiated
by "capillis flavis prolixis."

Fourthly, In the to the north partition we find the Norwegians and Swedes to be usually big,
white haired men, with lightweight gray eyes individual characteristics so common to the northward
of the Baltic, that Linnæus has particular them in a delineation of the inhabitants of Swedish
Gothland. We have then to the northward of Mount Atlas, four well assessed diversity of human
complexion doing well each other, and in accurate agreement with the gradations of latitude
and of weather from south to north. The persons are therefore far almost white in the hue of their
skin, but in the more southerly of the three districts overhead characterised, with a blend
of dark, or of the complexion of brunettes, or for example we period swarthy or sallow persons.
Fifthly, In the next district, to the southward of Atlas, the native
inhabitants, are the "gentes sub fusci coloris" of Leo, and the immigrant
Arabs in the identical homeland are, as we have glimpsed by abundant
testimonies, of a alike high dark hue, but changing between that and
a flawless black.

Sixthly, With the tropic and the latitude of the Senegal, commences the territory of predominant
and virtually universal pitch black, and this carries on, if we enclose us to the small and basic nations,
through all inter tropical Africa.
 The imagination whose images were
taken to meet all its brilliance, the deserters who engage in servile passions of the hour.
The story whose tales of glory and ignominy which referred to the gallows to boost his own
reputation in the future tense.

As for us, today, not to mention their names, but, like the ghost injured in the image of the
poet in the world of spirits, in turn pass over in silence. Remember that it was a great old
Republican in the field of letters, John Milton by name, whose shadow must be terrible for your
thoughts. Beware of becoming a public embarrassment. The great revenge for years will become
a mere trick of literature in prose and verse of all, not inspired by devotion to humanity, zeal for
the cause of the oppressed, and a hearty love of truth, while all coverage of the lies start.
Those who have despised our free institutions, and predicted our downfall, and rejoiced in anticipation
of the destruction of our country, for the lease of a hundred years for its own domain of
Church and State, and have their faith that oppressive rebels trying to build an empire on the ruins
of the Ten Commandments are so blind to discern the laws of human nature, as they are difficult
to breed the horoscope of events. This western continent, under God, pray to the despots, not
going to barbarism and desolation. What a great mission of freedom and religion, which sent
New England to California in the person of Thomas Starr King, wrote
that Mount Shasta is found to be higher than Mont Blanc.

Some elevations of the earth's surface, in this hemisphere shirts however, can be contemplated.
The pulpit is only one impostor nice when it violates the truth that is set to defend. All
your lies echoes of greed and inhumanity sitting in the pews, and
when in the approximate age, is a dog that barks does not fool thieves
or warn us of danger, real dumb, to whom his silence, but copies are
men who seem demure below to hear his instructions.

We are astonished to find a liar in the beam of the sky over the telegraph
wires.

We will exceed our surprise. Lying is fully human, not all the primaries. The private operator
has to carry its object, the partisan political purpose to serve the government's flattering
for people who are afraid to incorrect accounts of military movements and fortified positions
and the number of dead and wounded on both sides. Kinglake Telegraph calls a device by which an
employee determines to a great nation. Who but the nation, or part of it, gives the secretary?
He does not control, but the records, the sense of community in all its acts of imagination, and
hear the click or read the odd points, we want a relationship of trust or auditor responsible human
beings, even those bills.

But creatures of sympathy, approval needy dependent as we are, we will deliver all or any of
these lies? No - no sympathy for the truth, the superior and supreme court whose verdict we
must appeal. Before going on foot, witnesses of the eternal truth of God in our hearts. Lionheart,
Andrew Jackson said: "When I decide on my course, I do not ask what
people will think, but look in my own heart for guidance, believing
that all brave men will agree with me."

 

"As the minister began the issue of slavery, left the church," said a respectable citizen for a modest
woman, whose consent was safe.
"And the minister to move on?" He asked quietly.
"Yes, he continued," the bad citizen.
Thus, in this land, continue down the road of justice and truth that we have finally begun.
Let us not become more sympathetic, however, once legal, is because of the oppression and
evil. We will be as good as a thousand years, when we are through our struggle. For the respect
of Europe, we will not anxiety. Cordially or involuntarily come to the victory of the right
and the restoration of our manhood by divine law, deterrence of all iniquity at home or abroad.
Our success is a signal to all tyrannies, which have been falsely proud and strong united
to crush the ignorant and the lowly, lower. The dominant political and ecclesiastical usurpation of
the exclusive privilege and not give and take of mutual support against
growing humanity Roman augurs could keep the last one in the face.

 With a degree of banter
and insight peculiar to criticism from the north, he asks, "Where is Mr. Hope has hidden all his
eloquence and poetry until this hour?" How come he has suddenly exploded descriptions Unfortunately
that did not pen of Tacitus, and shows a depth of feeling and the force of imagination that Lord
Byron could not excel? I do not shrink from a syllable of this praise. "The issues on which
Mr. Hope had written previously were not calculated to evoke their feelings eloquently, and that
excellence was not expected of him, which, to use harmless satire Edinburgh Reviewer, "mused
pokers muffineers and planned."  It was not praise of part: universal contemporary criticism
Anastasio be allowed a work which shows great talent and extraordinary. It abounds in sublime passages
- in the sense - in the knowledge of history and knowledge of human character - and the rapid
sale of the three editions has proved superior to these characteristics have been widely recognized
by the reading public. The work in its fourth edition continues to enjoy a good sale. In each
reprint the details of the writer is traceability: Corrections and alterations in the metaphysical
about passages as illustrated by the points of character, are made with exquisite skill, and
becomes fresh academic elegance are observable along of each volume of the work. Memory probably
in some cases has allowed the author to re-touch your photos of scenes from the East, and reorganizing
its group of cases. How delightful entertainment work must have been for this so ingenious a
mind! One of his similes - the eyes of a woman crying in comparison with violets wet with
dew - has never been out of our memory, and one of his scenes of battle almost makes the reader
imagine himself traded to the scene for a weapon the contest.
Mr. Hope was married in 1806, the Hon. Louisa Beresford, daughter of the late Lord Decies, Archbishop
of Tuam, and sister of the comrades present, with which he left three sons, the eldest of whom,
Mr. Henry Hope, was boyfriend of the late king's bedroom, and recently took his seat in parliament
for the town of West Looe. From his mother very talented and we know many nice features, and however brilliant
may have been his glory in the life of high fashion, is more than compensated for his active
benevolence in the county, visiting homes and relieve anxiety of the poor of the neighborhood.

In Mr. literary knowledgeHope and its sponsorship of arts that we have already spoken. It is,
however, grateful to be enabled to refer to special events such sponsorship. There should therefore
be forgotten, that the liberality of señorEsperanza, Thorwalsden, the celebrated Danish sculptor,
is mainly indebted for an introduction to favor the world: we have seen in the seat of the
liberal pattern, Deepdene, a great marble boar impeccable, for which the sculptor was commissioned
a thousand guineas.

Mr. Hope, too, was an early sponsor of Mr. George Dawe, RA In memory
of this distinguished painter and luck we find that "Andromache requesting
the life of her Son," a scene in the play French entitled "Andromache",
was purchased by Mr. Hope, which, in the most liberal, talent approval
marked Dawe, favoring him with several commissions for portraits of
family, especially a half-length of Mrs. Hope, with his two sons,
and two long integers the lady alone.

"For what is useful and elegant arts stimulus Mr Hope, expanded, and for the past ten years
has served as one of the Vice-Presidents of the Society of Arts and Sciences in the Adelphi.

Mr. Hope is usually passed "open season" on inside his mansion in Duchess Street, Portland-place,
where they had assembled a valuable collection of works of art, beaten
together, and includes paintings, antique statues, busts, vases and
other relics of antiquity, arranged in floors, furniture and decorations
which were designed, in general, after the classical models, by the
holder himself clever.

Among the exquisite sculpture is the Venus of the tub, by Canova. All these valuables were open
to the public under certain restrictions, during the "season." Mr. Hope had also one of the
most delightful properties in the county of Surrey - viz. the Deepdene, near Dorking, which
attaches the Park box, purchased from the devisees of the late Sir Charles Talbot, Bart.
 

Yesterday we visited the Mozzi palace to see the box Benvenuto, "The night after the Battle of Jena."
Then, several churches - the Santa Croce, which is sacred ground:
the Annonciata, famous for the frescoes of Andrea del Sarto, and Carmine,
I liked the lighting for the elegance of its architecture, and fine
marble high-relief white.

In this church is the Chapel of Our Lady of Caramel, painted by Masuccio, and preserve ancient frescoes:
they are curious rather than beautiful, and it will decay.

Today we visited the School of Fine Arts, contains a very good and extensive collection of molds
of the old, and some works of modern artists and students are exposed. If I were to judge by the
samples I've seen here and elsewhere, I would say a cold, looking, hard style prevails tea tray
in the paint, and taste worse, if possible, in sculpture. No soul, no grandeur or simplicity,
a little blandness in the design, and detail of finish details; involvement instead of grace,
the distortion rather than power, and beauty rather than beauty. However, the artists who
executed these works, and those who buy them have free access to the wonders of the gallery,
and the treasures of the Pitti Palace.

Are the round eyes, souls, sans taste, sans every thing, but money and self-esteem?
November 22 .-- Our morning, however, busy, usually held for one hour in the gallery or in the
Pitti Palace, at night they spend in the Mercato Nuovo, in the workshops of artists, or Cascina.

In the gallery today, I reviewed the Dutch school and the hall of pictures, and ended as always
with the Tribune. La Salle des Portraits contains a complete collection of portraits of painters
to this day. In general their respective faces are expressive of his characters and style of
painting. Harlow's poor image, painted by himself, is here.

The Dutch and Flemish painters (despite its exquisite pots and pans, and cabbage and carrot, birch
brooms, which can count on each branch, and carpets, you can count on each thread) does not
interest me; landscapes also, quite naturally, are mere nature Dutch
(with some brilliant exceptions), cattle fat, cut trees, louts, and
windmills.

Of course I'm not talking about Van Dyck, Rubens or, that "in the colors of the rainbow lived",
or Rembrandt, the king of the clouds and shadows, but for my part, I give up everything Mieris,
Netscher, Teniers and Gerard Douwe ever produced, by one of the Eden-like creations Claude,
or one of the beautiful heads Guido - or simply for the pleasure of seeing Titian's Flora once
a day, I would give a whole Dutchmen gallery, if any.
 There must be a willingness between a husband and wife to "give and take"
and share in building a successful marriage. If they don't, little  problems they encounter
will soon escalate into huge fights. A wife should not simply obey without question; the husband
should not rule with an iron fist, but be a thoughtful head of the household. And neither party should
be pressured to ignore their personal principles and morals.
Here are a few sound rules:
1. The husband should give his spouse a generous allowance every week and define to the wife
what the money is earmarked for.

2. Invite mutual friends into your home, and do not allow them to rob you and your wife of
the quality time you need to cultivate a successful relationship.

3. Attend church together regularly. If that is not possible, make certain one spouse goes each
Sunday. Take communions consistently because this will strengthen your union in the eyes of
God.
4. A father is an extremely strong role model for children, especially the boys. Do not depend
on your wife or the school to provide your children with spiritual
training.

Do not sit home. Go to church with your children.
5. Men, in general, have a responsibility to home, church and country. Their first priority is
to the family. But be mindful of other commitments. You will be rewarded, spiritually, for
your loyalty and work in the church. And, as a Christian, you should give something back to help
others as well as enjoying the blessings that the church bestows upon you and your family.
God does not want robots. Everyone should contribute for the good
of all. And finally, though your individual power might be small,
your country still needs you to express your opinions -- whatever
your beliefs might be -- to benefit the entire nation. The aisles down each side are authentic Norman architecture. During the reign of Edward III a choir
was built, according to a license obtained during the eleventh year
that the king reigned.

 Stones from the Shireword Forest quarry were used to build the choir.

 Martha's arms
were held up by her, towards her as the first flash  of lightning came to her .
She asked Scylla to come and slide off into her arms.She also told  that she will try to save both
of them from the herd , which is  stampeded and is coming towards them .
Scylla did the same what she was told without the word , and she  was half kneeling , half lying
on the ground in a few seconds.
Then Dan was struck by Martha as hard as possible by Martha with  her flat hand .
Then she asked Dan to hey up and run because he also need not to  stay there .
The horse also found to be galloped off into the darkness.
Then there showed a cow boy leaning far over the neck of his pony ,  who is riding for his life
, just when another lighting-flash  came.He was not able to see
them , even if he passed only a dozen  yards from them .Martha caught
a glimpse of the tossing horns and  also lurching heads of the cattle
when she could dimly see two or  three other riders coming towards
them at desperate speed.

Then without taking a moment for thought she bent over trembling  Scylla and unfastened the
waistband of her dress skirt and pulled  it deftly from under her and she looks as cool as she
had nothing  in the world to fear .Then she took one of the bright colored  garments in each
hand of her after removing her own .
Then the night was sudenly lighted by lightning-flashes when the
storm broke fruriously , then there seemed to make one long lasting
flare when those lightning flashes followed one another.Martha saw
that the herd was scarcely two hundred yards away after all the
cow-boys had passed.

She raised the skirts and stepped directly in front of Scylla's  postrate form .
She cried and asked Scylla to scream .
Those skirts were waved wildly about her head ,as she stood  straight up , when the driving rain
fell in torrent and the  prairies also look as light as day by the lightning , and she  started shouting
at the top of her voice .
Now her face was look as pale as paper and even her own violent
motions and the wind make her long hair tossed as she was very  conscious
about the fact that her shout shaped themselves into a  prayer ,
that the herd might divide and pass them and her brother  was safe .

And when the cattle was only a hundred yards away , she now can  easily see the lightning shining
on his horns and his red rolling  eyes . There are two things started to come in her mind
whether he  crush her or would he turn a side ,when he was coming straight  towards her
. Now she started shouting more loudly and swung the  skirts more wildly . Then there also
comes an idea which definitely  leads to certain death when she felt an almost overpowering
impulse  to turn and run away. The only possible option for her now is to  keep her position
firmly and continue to scream with swinging her  skirts . Then she thinks that the followers
might do the same if  the first steer swerved and passed her .
As he lurched toward her he seemed of mammoth proportion .His great
hoofs lookeed like trip hammers as it pounded the ground .

It  becomes closer and closer . He was even not twenty feet away.She  was looked straight into
his big crazy eyes . Again after some  closeness he just change his course a trifle and passed
her like a  great fury , then there exist a compact mass of herd , as others  were only a few
feet behind him . On seing this she screamed louder  and redoubled her waving .
 Following step is to seek favorable signs, and two men off for saying
this.

They repair to some spot in the jungle, or more frequently on the river, where they build a
small hut, they adorn the poles collapse of its framework, and as insurance against disruptions
by passing acquaintances. Or the sound of certain birds and animals is favorable, others unfavorable,
but friendly creatures to be respected in a specific order, where there are signs to be entirely
satisfactory. If very bad signs are observed, the men return home to report the facts, and
will make another attempt, after a few days. Where are signs of mixed character, they will persist
for some time, hoping to get a sufficient number of good signs to counter or undo bad. When
seeking to place their comments, their choice is determined to see a spider-hunter (ARACHNOTHERA)
flying across the river, chirping like flies.

This is seen when they stop the boat, shouting at the birds, "Oh, ISIT friend, to protect
us and give us success." One of the men land on the bank, hews a pole about eight feet long, cuts
her bouquets of chips without letting go (pl. 97) to the pole, and tie one end of it in the
ground so that it remains in slope to the abode of the enemy. While this is done on shore, a
fire of some sort (if only one cigarette) is lit up in the boat, and the position is explained more
fully in birds, but no mention of the name of the enemy. Observers then raise a hut near the sign-pole
for their shelter, and pass the night there before to look out for signs of birds near desired.
This is trogan (HARPACTES DUVAUCELII), which has a unique soft Trilling and a bright red breast.
When you see this bird, is addressed in the same way as the spider-hunter, and this second phase of
the process is also marked by a feathered stick thrust into the ground before the hut. Then
they spend a night in the hut hoping for significant dreams. To dream of abundance of fruit
(which symbolizes the head) is favorable to any dream or fear of
an unpleasant situation is unfavorable.

After a favorable dream comes the most important stage of work, observation Hawks. They look
for Laki NEHO the door of their hut at nine o'clock in the morning. Once an eagle is seen, they
light a fire and call on him to go left, waving a stick with feathers in this direction, and
shouting at the top of his voice, one of them pours out a torrent of words addressed to hawk. If he
leaves the right, have noted that the console is a low grade, and they sit down to wait for another.
 Mrs. D. M. Cook

How to prepare Oyster Cabbage

First, mince finely
one half of a cabbage.

Put the cabbage in a pot and fill with water. Boil cabbage for ten minutes and then strain off
water. Next, pour milk over cabbage. Bring milk to a boil. Lastly, add cracker crumbs, small
amount of butter, and a pinch of salt and pepper.
 "O Lord God!"

 This as we were all upset into a snowdrift, the sleigh being three
part overturned, and our Jesus precipitate in the opposite course.

"How far are we from the next halting-place?" suddenly inquired my buddy, with an ejaculation
which show that even his good rage had given way below the cold and our situation.  "Only four versus,
one of noble birth," replied the under pressure Jesus, who was efficiently engaged endeavoring
to right the half-overturned sleigh.  A Russian verse about night-fall, and under such conditions
as I have endeavored to summit out to the reader, is an unknown extent.

A Scotch mile and a bit, an Irish union, a Spanish Logitech, or the German stoned, are at all
times calculated to call forth the wrath of the travelers, but in no way equal to the first-named
division of distance.  For the avers is hardly two-thirds of an English mile, and when, after
profound yet for an hour, we were told that there were still two against more before we could arrive
at our halting-place, it begin wholly to sunrise upon my friend that either our driver's facts
of distance, or otherwise his veracity, was at fault.  At last we reached a long, struggling
village, shaped of houses constructed much in the same way as that previously described when our
horses stopped before a position apart cottage. The manager came out to meet us at the doorstep.
"Samovar, samovar!" (urn), said my buddy.

"Quick, quick! Samovar!" and hurrying by him, and hastily throwing off our furs, we endeavored
to regain our lost circulation beside the walls of a well-heated stove. The Russian peasants
are not ignorant of the good old maxim that the early bird gets the worm, and the few hours' daylight
they enjoy all through the winter months makes it doubly necessary for them to observe this precept.
We were all up a good hour before sunrise, my cohort making the tea, while our driver was harnessing
the horses, but this time not three abreast, for the road was bad and narrow; so we strong-minded
to have two small sleighs with a pair of horses to each, and put our luggage in one vehicle
while we traveled in the other.  Off we went a motley crew. First, the grubby peddler who had
wished to be my companion's bedfellow the night before; then our
luggage sleigh; and, finally, my friend and self, who brought up the
rear, with a careful eye upon our effects, as the people in that part
of the country were said to have some involved in distinctive between
mecca and tummy.

 The sun was vivid and glorious, and in no division of the world
hitherto visited have I ever seen aurora in such glory.

First, a pale blue streak, steadily extending over the whole of the eastern horizon, arose
like a wall except for the hazy beyond; then, changeably changing cooler until the summit was
like lapin-lazuli, and its base a sheet of purple waves of grey and crystal, radiating from the
darker hues, relieved the eye, appalled by the vastness of the barrier; the purple practicalities
were in turn up heaved by a sea of fire, which dazzled the eye with its glowing brilliancy, and
the wall of colors floating in space broke up into castles, fortifications, and towers, which
were wafted by the breeze far away from our view.  The sea of flame meanwhile had lighted up the whole
horizon; the eye quailed beneath the glare. The snowy carpet at our feet reflected like a camera
the wonderful panorama overhead. Flakes of light in rapid succession bound earth to sky, until
the globe of sparkling light arising from the depths of this ocean
of flame dimmed into inconsequential the setting of the picture.

Presently a sudden check and exclamation of our Jesus tell us that the strap up had given
way, and a conversation, liberally interlarded with epithets exchanged sandwiched between the
driver and the peddler, showed that there was decidedly a difference of opinion between them.
It appeared that the man of buying was the only one of the festivity who knew the road, and
having discovered this fact, he determined to make use of his knowledge by refusing to show
the way unless the proprietor of the horses who drove the motor vehicle containing our luggage
would abate a little from the price he had demanded for the hire of the horse in the peddler's
sleigh. "A good buy is a good buy!" cried our driver, wishing to curry favor with his master, now
a not many yards behind him.  "A bargain is a bargain. Oh, thou
son of an animal, drive on!"

"It is very cold," unintelligible my escort.
 Planning to lynch another black tonight.In those days there werent any schools where slaves
could go.So small log cabins were turned into schools. But my sister and I never went to school.At
thirty-two I married William L. Davison after leaving the plantation. I had to work and there
was no company on the plantation. My only surviving grandchild,Willa May Reynolds, used to teach
in a school in City Grove ,Tennessee and now she is married.Abe Lincoln did alot of good and
Ithought very highly of him.As kids we used to sing a song 'Gonna hang Jeff Davis to a sour
apple tree as we go marchin' home.'Without really knowing what it meant.Both Booker T. Washington
and Fredrick Douglass were great men, doing good like Abe Lincoln.With the abolition of slavery
blacks could breathe freely'A lady recently asked if tne blacks were really not happier under the
whites, which Ithought was meaningless.Ibelong to the Third Bapist Church and think that all
people should do and be good.The atrocities me and my sister suffered are unimaginable and God
forgive the perpetrators.We must love one another like true Christians.betty Lugabell, Reporter
( TR. also reported as Lugabill) Harold Pugh, Editor R.S. Drum, Supervisor Jun 9, 1937 Folklore: Ex'Slaves
Paulding Co. District 10 MARY BELLE DEMPSEY Ex-Slave ,87 years'I was a toddler when the family
movesd from Wilford county ,Kentuckybut my mother told me all about
slavery.My parents were Sidney Jane and William Booker and my brother
was named George William Booker.The whitw man who owned my parents
was a good man.

26 slaves worked in his fairly large plantation and he treated them well. Each slave family had their
own cabin and the women prepared the meals there. These were in good condition.The master was
a farmer, the men helped in the fields but the women looked after their homes.The slaves had
their churches as well. and sometimes during their meetings the white people would create trouble.
The slaves would then place chunks and matches on the white man's
gate post as a warning that their houses would be burnt if they continued
causing trouble.The owner of the adjoinging farm was ready to sell
the mother slave and her five children but the children created such
a furoe that the misteress bought them back although she did not have
much money to spare.I don't know many more slave stories and I am
too old now and looking forward to dyeing and joining my friends and
relatives in the heavenly abode.I believe that religion is the most
important thing in the world.'Former Slave Interview, Special Aug
16, 1937Butler County, District#2 Middletown.MRS NANCE east 809 Seventeen
Ave. Middletown.' Mammy'East, 809 SeventeenthAve, Middletown , Ohiorules
afour room bungalow in the negro district set aside the the American
Rollinf Mill Corporation.She lives there with her sons and workers
in the same immaculate fashion that she was taught in a Southern plantation.Her
house is equipped with all modern equipment but she herself does not
believe in modern things.' Iam aware of the slavery days as my parents
told me all they knew about those days.

 ose o' my heart, a rose is sweet And fresh as dew.

Some have thorns, but, Rose o' my heart, None have you.
Rose o' my heart, this day wear My roses, do! For next to my heart, Rose o' my heart, I wear you."

Miss Clark's favorite, "My Dear", was written for he baby brother during an absence from home.

Miss Clark now works at Kansas University in the Extension Department. She is in charge of club
programs and sporadically works in package libraries.
MARY VANCE HUMPHREY.

Mary Vance Humphrey of Junction City, Kansas, has written a series of short stories on the property
rights of women in Kansas. This is a vital topic to the women of Kansas. The series includes
titles such as, "The Legal Status of Mrs. O'Rourke" and "King Lear in Kansas".
As a younger woman Mrs. Humphrey was a poet. Recently she shifted her efforts toward prose exclusively.
Her historical novel, "The Squatter Sovereign", is a romance of pioneer days, specifically
the settlement of Kansas in the fifties.
Mrs. Humphrey founded the Reading Club of Junction City, and was one of the founders of the
Woman's Kansas Day Club and the Kansas State Social Science Club. She has served as Director
of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, President of the Woman's Kansas Day Club and as
President of the State Federation. Her tenure on the Board of Education has done much for
Junction City and her passion for libraries has done just as much for Kansas.
Margaret Hill McCarter has written about her record as an official: "Her whole soul is in her
work. She is the genuine metal, shirking nothing, cheapening nothing, and withal happy in the
enjoyment of her obligation. She stands for patriotism, progress and peace. Something of the
message of the shepherds heard out beyond Bethlehem that Christmas morning long ago sounds
in the chords she strikes."
As the widow of the late Judge James Humphrey, she has shown herself
to be an able wife of such a deserving man.

KATE A. APLINGTON.
The Kansas State Traveling Art Gallery owes its founding and much of its success to Kate A.
Aplington. Aplingto, the author of a recognizable western story, "Pilgrims of the Plains." The Art Gallery
has been a recognized state institution since Feb., 1907. As Vice-President and Superintendent of
the gallery, and as writer of the art lectures that accompany the work, Mrs. Aplington's artistic
and innovative nature coupled with the tennacity of a student have
made the gallery the work of art it is today.

At present, the Aplingtons are living in Miami, Florida. For twenty five years prior to that,
Council Grove was their home, the most famous location on the Santa
Fe Trail.

 Investigations and research of the old Santa Fe Trail days and lecturers
on several educational and literary topics came about from the years
spent in that historical place.

"Pilgrims of the Plains," published in Feb., 1913, is a story worthy of a place in the front
rank of westerns. In July of this year, Grossett and Dunlap will republish it in their "Popular
Edition" of novels.
Mrs. Aplington is now working on a book about "Art-Museums of America"
and based on the comments of notable Museum Directors, this will be
a great success much like her novel. "Florida of the Reclamation,"
a character set in and around Miami, Florida, is also in the works.
EMMA UPTON VAUGHN. 
Emma Upton Vaughn, a Kansas City, Kansas teacher,
is the author of the little book of short stories called "The Lower
Bureau Drawer". As family names, there are two Hawthornes and Hathornes in England at present.
While the two names may have originally been identical, both have long separated to be as
distinct as the names Smith and Smythe. There have only been two instances which I found where
the first William Hathorne wrote down his name. The first of the two, in the various documents
at the State House, seems to have been written by other people. As it was liberally spelled Hathorn,
Hathorne, Hawthorn, Haythorne, and Harthorne, we can come to the conclusion that the "a" was
broadly pronounced. Let us examine these distinct differences and determine their bearing
on the conclusions already drawn.

Basically, his work is safer, more sanitary, and occurs during the day, as well as above the
ground.
 I'd pretty much figured they were the steps of two different people,
and I was pondering who they could be as I heard a soft rapping on
the door.

I didn't open it quickly, as the knock seemed rather threatening and I was afraid of having another
problem.
 He had two reasons that
worried him about the room, the books in the shelves untouched and his mother’s work-basket kept
there. These things reminded of the happy day in spring during March. The clattering noise of the
ice that had melted the gush of water, the sound of canary singing, all came to his mind. Even
at this sad time, these made him feel happy, as they brought the
image of his mother and Violet who was warm hearted.

He felt miserable now at the time of retreat than the time he had to go away. There is only
silence and absence which made him feel terrible. How he wanted to hear someone speak! Or
at least some noise! And now he had the letter Violet had written. He was not wholly willing
to read for fear that it might not be for him, which proved wrong.
It was for Harry.

It started addressing Harry by his name, and it had enquired whether he knew that she loved
him, Ernest. As I thought he was better than us both. Violet thinks that she had pitied herself and
Harry, which she thought to be love for him. She was doubtless about her love for Ernest all
the time. Violet also adds that she understood her love for him and also that though Ernest is
famous and successful, yet he was unsatisfied, for people with talents aspire for more always.
Now he is at the verge of death and he is asking for violet.
As a brother Harry will never be able to deny him the things he desires.

 Will Harry now let Violet go to him?

She also adds, “Now that you are benevolent and kind-hearted, I am asking you to forgive me and
also show mercy upon me, and I am sure to get them as well.” and finishes the letter by
signing her name, "VIOLET."
Harry came into the room, as Ernest was shaken by the letter and trying to understand what it
meant. Ernest was very worried for his brother, who was already suffering from the distress.
Harry had gathered himself and spoke with an intense look in his face.
He started saying that he should have revealed the truth that the fact that Violet loved him
came to his understanding when she left. He knew that she loved Ernest. Though she loved him,
she pitied Harry and this she thought was love. When he came to say that Violet is all his
and should live with him in the warm Italian Place, it was already late. He also adds “Since
I failed to act fast, I have brought sorrow upon myself. Violet belongs to you now.” He
also confesses his terrible, evil, self-seeking happiness which he
felt at the moment of loss.

 It
is not alone fit to exercise the bookish commonsense of a abundant people, and to accord thereby
to the accomplishment of mankind, but it is aswell basal to all workmen, whose end is to accord
to assertive bodies bent forms, and it is principally attributable to the methods of this art accepting
been too little extended, or in actuality about actually neglected, that the advance of our
industry has been so slow. We shall accord again to accord an advantageous administration to
civic education, by authoritative our adolescent artisan accustomed with the appliance of anecdotic
geometry, to the clear constructions which are all-important in the greater amount of the arts,
and in authoritative use of this geometry in the representation and
assurance of the elements of machinery, by agency of which, man by
the aid of the armament of nature, affluence for himself, in a manner,
in his operations no added labour than that of his intellects.

It is no beneath advantageous to extend the ability of those phenomena of attributes which may
be angry to the accumulation of the arts. The agreeableness which accompanies them will affected
the abhorrence that men accept in accepted for chiral operations, (which a lot of attention
as aching and laborious,) as it will accomplish them acquisition
amusement in the exercise of their intellect; appropriately there
care to be in the academic academy a advance of anecdotic geometry.

As yet we accept no able-bodied aggregate elementary plan on that art, because till this time
abstruse men accept taken too little absorption in it, or it has alone been practised in an abstruse
address by bodies whose apprenticeship had not been abundantly extended, and were clumsy to acquaint
the aftereffect of their lucubrations. A advance artlessly articulate would be actually after effect.
 The Master Spirits in disbelief give abundant evidence of
their ignorance of the scriptures of the Bible. Not once in a thousand researched the writings
of the Bible with pure and honest motives. Many of them never investigated it at all. To read
a chapter here and there with the sole purpose of finding bugs and getting a difficulty, not research.
An honest investigation requires a very different course. All tests must be taken to court and
presented in such a way as to be understood, as was given, otherwise
the court is not able to decide the case fairly.

That all men like Colonel Ingersoll did not investigate what the Bible is evident from the fact
that, to be like him ought to be unfaithful in their history. It is published to the world
that the colonel had been born an infidel. He has been hacking on religion and the Bible since
I was a toddler. So that infidelity is not the result of intelligent inquiry science or religion.
I will not undertake to say what the Colonel's problems, but if he was born an infidel is possible,
according to our law, he will die an unbeliever.

 many infidels, which is governed by a spirit of fanaticism, of course,
have worked as hard as if the world's salvation depended on his effort,
without any hope of improving their condition, the false philosophy
of materialism defending delivery a man nothing to live for, except
his own animal nature.

This philosophy says that everything is fine, as long as dodge the corners of the laws of your
country. If the materialist can avoid paying fines and other penalties all the laws of your
country, what need he care for a lifetime rather than another? You say he has a conscience?
Well, maybe that will not burn to be past feeling.

Very few men, I know, never reach that state depraved.
 She just happened to be at the gate picking flowers.
She was direct with him, but her flushed cheeks could not hide her true feelings. On the walk home,
the two talked the whole way.

He babbled on about nothing in particular, and she could see that he felt the same way about
her.

That night at the tea-table, she positioned herself at the head of the table. Her guest, younger
sisters, and two brothers filled in around the table.

Her father, a banker and insurance agent by trade, sat at the other end. The meal was traditional,
yet comfortable. Throughout the night, her father spoke carefully, and made his authority known.
The conversations they had that night were vibrant and plentiful.

The conversation became serious when the subject of the milk came up. The family was without
cream, and could not get their cow to produce milk Tonight they ate strawberries with their tea.
Like so many other nights, they would have to eat without cream again.

Her father, Mr. Torrence mentioned the sermon from last week in church.

The sermon had caused an uproar about the cream, and it had upset
her to be forced to sit through the upheaval. 

Trilium, the cow,
it seemed had suddenly stopped producing milk. The girl's opinion
was that the cow must be cursed. She was young, only 18, and this
explanation made perfect sense to her. 

She blushed, and hid her
disdain from her sister. She made sure that her student could not
see. 

"We must have a lot of magic going on around here." The housemaster
said to the minister. 

He thought she had been joking about the curse.
 Really I never saw any people
in such torment regarding their spirit. I cannot but look ahead this as a genuine reply to plea.
I have also numerous other people in deep sorrow, and I sense that I am fairly weak in soothing them.
I would fain be similar to Noah, who set out his hand and take in
the exhausted dove; but God makes me position by and experience that
I am a kid.

Will God never direct the scenes of our effort close to each other? We are in his hand; let Him do
as seemeth Him superior. Pray for me, for my populace, for my individual essence, that I be not
a cast away."
Few godly pastors can be keen to alter the view of their efforts, unless it is simple that the Cloudy
Support is pointing them away. It is unsafe for men to prefer for themselves; and also often has
it happened that the minister, who, on minor reason, stirred away from his previous watch-tower,
has had cause to grieve more than the displeasure of his hopes in his superior and wider sphere.
But while this is admitted, most likely it can show inexcusable in Mr. M'Cheyne to have prayed
for a mark of the Lord's spirit.

It is to be observed, however, that he determined the point of responsibility on other basis; and
it was merely with the sight of obtaining an extra corroboration by the occurrences of fate,
that he prayed in this way, in obedience to the will of the Lord.

He never detained it correct to choose the lane of responsibility by any such symbols or tokens; he
believed that the written statement supplied enough facts for guiding the believing essence;
and such beneficial occurrences as happened in this case he regarded as vital only as far as they
might be answers to plea. Indeed, he himself has left us a glimpse of his views on this point
in a portion, which (for it is not dated) might have been written regarding this occasion. He
had been thinking on Gideon's Fleece.

When God called Gideon forward to clash "Go, save thou Israel in thy might,"-- The realistic fighter
wanted a mark That God would on his efforts shine. The man who, at thy fear authority, lifted
the safeguard and fatal brand. To do thy odd and scared work-- Thy vocation of blood and revenge,
Lord! -- Might want pledge twice as tried; to establish Thou wouldst his steps betide. But while
the memo which we carry Is one to build the dumb man chant; To offer the sightless man wash
and see, The lame to jump with delight; To lift the spirit that's
bent down, To clean away the tears and glare To spray all the spirit
inside From the condemning accent of crime Then, such a symbol my
call to confirm, To moralize my Saviour's failing adore, I cannot,
challenge not, anticipate to discover.

 The little boy stood before his grand dad and
began to ask questions. He asked him whether his father and uncle faught in the war. Grand pa answered
him that his dad was in the HL.I and uncle Joseph sailed the sea,
commander of a T.B.D and another uncle Jack was a Major.

Then the anxious boy asked about him. He affectionatley stroked his golden hair and told him that
he was a 'general'. The old man mounted the little boy in his lap and narrated to him the stories
of the past and the little boy was very keen and interested to hear about it.When the first
war broke out everyone in the family were engaged in one or other work. The grand ma of the
boy became a V.A.D , his aunties were busy in working at Y.M.C.A and the servants were also not
there. The cook was conscribed for baker's round. The house maid, forsook her dusters and broom
and went out to deliver the mail. The parlour maid became a vet and some other servants gone
out to manufacturing munitions.And he said to the boy . He was the only person left in the
house.Even though he knew no trade he have done all the work of the family himself. He chopped the
sticks, kindled the fire and made delicious food for the family and served it hot to them. He
have done all the cleaning works for the family and the shopping was also his duty.When the family
came back home tired of doing duties the smell of the delicious food
welcome them.

He said the little boy that he was a general and How generals fight against enemy. Hearing all this
the little boy became thrilled and he clapped. And after ascending from his lap he Saluted the
old man with love and pride.
 To a resolution on the number nine it appeared to clearly point, just like in music the
tonic is pointed to by the sensitive seventh points. It would understandably be explained
if nine could only be established...Man's number in creation is five (and isn't also five eyes
the facial measurement of man?)when five is added to four it makes nine, the number of material
elements that he dominates, which in turn would show the greatness
or completeness of man. Unique
reactions for man. Life-cycles for chemistry for genders. Period of capcity to reproduce and
sex issue. Comparative differences for significance of physiological
sex.

IV. SEX SPECIALIZATION AND GROUP SURVIVAL  
Adaptation and specialization.
 On January 29th, after they received orders to come to New Orleans,
La.,the regiment traveled by train from St. Louis to Cairo. It then boarded onto the W.R. Arthur
steamboat and left the following night. 1000 people where on board
at that time The remarkable Rev. Charles Caleb Colton, who also published "Lacon"
in 1820, was one of the earliest cigar-smokers during the Pennisular War. It is believed that
cigar smoking was directly connected with the experiences of British
officers in Portugal and Spain.

Initially, cigar smoking was restricted to only a few people. However, social prejudice against
tobacco continued unabated.

During this time, Rev. Charles Caleb Colton was the successor over
Rector of Tiverton and Vicar of Kew. Upon leaving Vicar Kew, is known
to have kept cigars under the pulpit, where be believed the temperature
was perfect. She came upon it unexpectedly, and unnoticeably reclused from her
pen and books and for many weeks took up a business from home untill
she no longer physically or mentally have the will to continue.

She began wasting away and could not hold in her wretched emotions of sadness. Since she distanced
herself from people, her mother did not notice her troubles. "Lucretia, it is a long time
since you have written any thing." Said her mother. With tears flowing she said, "O mother, I
have given that up long ago." "But why?" said her mother. With strong reaction she replied
"I am convinced from what my friends have said, and from what I see, that I have done wrong
in pursuing the course I have.

I well know the circumstances of the family are such, that it requires the united efforts of every member
to sustain it; and since my eldest sister is now gone, it becomes my duty to do every thing in my power
to lighten the cares of my parents." Seeing how distressed she was, her mother reacted in a
comforting way. She told her daughter not to avoid any great decision to comform to either side
of devoting to her ambitions, nor ignoring them. This made her mind at ease, because she could
still write and be happy.

She was thirteen years old when her mother had coached her on this. Although it may not be clear
in the passage how exactly this effected her mind set.
When I start to think about something deeply and am figuring it out, it unfortunately escapes me
no matter how much I wish for the thoughts to be solved. I give up, defeated.
She pleads with me to write and when I attempt to do so she critisized
my work and laughs at my failure and I am left helpless and unaccomplished.

My friends all bost that they have great accomplishmetns but I tell them to keep them to themselves
so I seem less of a failure.

Lucrecia was not as ungifted as she is portrayed. She was just
embound with an impossible task that she could not amount up to. It was not a theoretical
analysis which done by me.
I shared the secrets of my job with the agent members.
When I was in the intention of doing something, I looked into me and traveled through the alertness
and the achievements of my heart power.When i felt bored, I was floating on the surface only .I
could not looked into me and my heart power.

 

Sometimes I thought, Why I felt unhappy even though I had all the things and could understand the
things to do to attain my ambitions and aims in my life.Yes, It fully
depends on my heart.

It only makes me soft and ca-roded all my powerful desire of my mind.

I felt very bad for wasting my whole young life.The one who wasted their life like me might
admired at the mass.I feel ashamed for the sympathy of myself.Instead
of searching for the realness of love, I shrinked me in the feelings
of sadness.

I wondered that really did i do anything for the service of men.

I could see more individual failures to complete the measures successfully.We can work on the events
and move it to success but we cannot continue our efforts. We start to hate to do the efforts.We
bored ourselves.

But it leads to the dangerous end.

Even in the worries, I neglected to shape my desires and to clear
my studies,but I was listening to my heart oscillation.Because of
my unsteadiness I wasted my whole young life.The young life is wasted
within me without giving pleasure.I was tired to wake up my soul to
remember the benefits of my youthness.

Nobody was there to share my happiness and sadness.
More experiences are written in the pages of Chalmers.
When I was young, I had a deep attraction towards love and to be loved.But it was too young
to feel that. So that feelings passed away from me.But still now I never experienced it again.

My manliness blocked me to welcome my youthness.It makes me to see the world in fiction instead
of seeing its reality.In true, I wont get any reward if i see the world in its reality.
But I can drive me from my errors and hold me up in the paradise.
Now I want to acknowledge myself.
Men who have no conditions and adjusted with normal lives of the world can afford all the earthly
pleasures.
I degenerated myself.Neither the men nor the women makes me happy.My aims could not reach its
goals.I was disappointed finally.I felt bad at my friends not for
their faithlessness but for not having flavor in their speech.I failed
to see the happiness and failed to attain victory in their love.

My feelings is not a temporary one but it urged me a long back.Now i formed a solution for that.I
am adopting that.
Now I have made a new agreement with the nature.Like a bird which
flies all the day around the world and enjoys its time but has come
back to its home at last, I want to live.

Still i have one thought in my mind which all the time engaged in me. That thought helps me
to reduce the gloomy in the present life.My dear friend Monkton, "Do u think that it all usual for
the human beings." 
With regards. Th riverside low lands are very fertile. I ever didn't heard
about a barren land near riverside. The soil of York-shire is famous for cattle as it is on
river side of Humber. As it was on riverside lots of grass grown
there can feed bulks of cattle.

The countries in Europe is also known for its fertility as they lie so low. In the case of
Egypt it is known as the gift of Nile. We cannot compare the fertility of Egypt to another land.
Because of this the soil suitable for an orchard is river side low
plaine. Usually I spoke of women with great
caution (due to the fact that my girlfriends had lain in the house of my mother,being careful
had now become a habit to me.) One evening I was talking about virgins and how to obtain one. Such things
were done he told me; a young woman was had by the Harridans, for the right price, but usually the
girls were sold repeatedly as virgins, "and," he added " those girls are trained, and there is
no way to really know; you may be paying for one who really got fucked first by a butcher boy,
and after the butcher a dandy bought and paid for her virginity; you might actually pay for it boy,
and not ever know you have been taken. I thought about this a lot, and brought up the subject
again the next night. His idea was the himself being an old stager as himself was not to be done;
however any horny young beggar would go up the girl, and gloat that he had had a virgin, if
the girl was delightful and beautiful."When with your eye you see
the tight covered hole, to your little finger it will be tight, and
also to your cock tight; when your eye, cock, and finger have been
satisfied, and actually seen blood on your cock, you will then be
able to be sure that you have had a virgin.

I thought, " I am going to be deceived."

 A week later, with no letter, I went to her house, and discovered
that she was gone and had taken all her belongings with her.

That evening I spoke a little of my hopes to the Major, not giving the lady's identity, or telling
where she had gone; and he laughed. " My boy you are done brown, you will never see her again."
 One more thing, before I close. It is often said that I am different
from Dewey and Schiller, as I bend more to popular opinion, while they stay stalwart in their
pragmatism. The same is also confirmed by the exposition of Holy Scripture.

For it is said: "You must not offer you devils," the original word is Seghuirim, ie rough and
hairy goats because in this way the devil often appeared, as defined by the rabbi who Tremellius
hath also explained, and when word Ascimah God Emath takes some explanation. "Dr. Joseph granted,
a pious and learned divine, author of the prestigious" Key to the Apocalypse ", says that 'the
devil could not appear in human form, while the man was in his integrity
because he was a spirit fallen from his first glorious perfection,
and therefore must be in a form that could argue his imperfection
and humiliation, which was shaped like an animal, otherwise [he plausibly
listed] no reason given why he should not rather have appeared to
Eve in the form of a woman than a hose.

But since the fall of matter has changed, now we know he can take his likeness of a man. He
appears in the form of man's imperfection rather to age or abnormality, which as an old man
(as witches say) and maybe it's not completely wrong, which is corny confirmed that devil in
human form has always a deformity of some uncouth member or other, as if he still could not take
him completely human form, because that man is not totally diminished as he is. "Whatever
form he can assume that the cloven foot must always be visible in
any disguise, and Othello looks first for that fabulous, but certain
characters when he examines his treacherous friend.

Reginald Scot's reminiscent of what was instilled in him in kindergarten, may occur some even to
this day. 'In our childhood, "he complains," our mothers' maids have so terrified us with an ugly
devil having horns on his head, fire in the mouth, a tail in his breech presentation, eyes like
a bison, fangs like a dog, a skin which a niger, a voice roaring like a lion, where we start and
are afraid when we hear a cry Boh! 'Chaucer has expressed faith in his age on the subject. It seems
to have been a proper duty of a priest to call attention to his ecclesiastical superior, with
other crimes of witchcraft. The Friar describes his 'Erchedeken' as a -
It boldely Didde execucioun In punyschying of fornicacioun, Of wicchecraft ....
This clerical employee in his service a subordinate "sompnour, 'which in the course of his
official duty, one day meetings a devil whose' dwellynge in Helle, 'who condescends to inform
the officer on the dark subject of demon-visions: - 
When we liketh
we can take care of Ellis Or do you seme that we ben Schaper BY tyme
as a man or a monkey; Or as a aungel I can Ryde or go: It's no wonder
things about it then, A lowsy jogelour can deceyve it; parfay And
I can even more craft than he.

 The pain of the stone required extraordinary quantities of opiates to manage,
keeping him sedated even while it made the experience easier. In the end, his strength and health
failing, he received warning to prepare for imminent death. Summoning what was left of his willpower,
he said goodbye to his children and resigned himself to his fate. His last day among the living
was March 28 of 1745.

In his description of this event and the preceding pains of illness, Horace Walpole, who may
have been Lord Orford's son, writes casually and with great emotion. Walpole notes, with grief
in his words, that, to paraphrase, Orford was himself to the end despite his suffering. At that
point Walpole ends his narration with saying more. The famous, court-favored faction known as
the Granvilles had, privately, thought very highly of Horace, including Lady Sophia Fermor,
now the Lady Granville.

In the time before Lord Orford's passing, Horace wrote, describing the Granvilles, that they
were always present at the royal seat, the only tolerated company of the court. The only thing
more excessive that the childishness of the mighty is their brashness. Because they had nothing
better to do, they'd become devoted to puzzles which they commissioned be printed, in large
amounts, in books to be distributed at social events. That was itself a calm and relatively safe
activity. The Lady's celebrated beauty was in decline at this point. The painting of her in hair
and neck coverings, with most of her skull hidden inside a kind of hat, does reveal an intelligent
expression on the face so many had complimented so often and for so long. She had attractive eyebrows
on a lovely forehead, charming eyes that seemed both unfocused and intensely alive, and a face
characterized by clear, classically beautiful lines. Her clothing was as silly as her personality,
but when she wanted to show off her grandeur, to play the great lady,
it was impossible to compete with her.

Mrs. Delany refers to her birthday outfit: a white dress of satin, covered in leaves, vines, morning
glories, and rose buds, all made of fancy stitching and in their
respective natural colors.

The dress made such an impact that Delany said, describing it to her friend, that Lady Granville,
dress and all, was an artistic masterpiece, that, considering her age, no one looked better.
It was difficult to separate her from the way she presented herself.

This was about the same time that the house at Houghton was shuttered. It was closed down because Lord
Orford passed away fifty thousand pounds in debt.

The next Lord Orford, Horace, the older of the brothers, decided
to keep Houghton closed to save money. He called this a "new and very
unknown economy"; in other words, it was unusual up until that point
for his family to moderate their spending.

Sir Robert Walpole made
his money via a scheme to do with the South Sea, selling his investments
at exactly the right time to collect a big profit. Arthur, as befits a king, decreed
a settlement to the claim both men had on the maiden. Gwyn ap Nudd of the North and Gwythyr
son of Griedawl would enter into battle annually on May first and fight for the hand of the maiden
from that day forward until one of them should die .

The maiden would in the meanwhile live with her father and see neither of her suitors. As a
gesture of peace between the houses of the two suitors, Arthur released the nobles from prison.
 The tragedy was starting; we see the society
as it will be under the new Administration. We fear for the future of the Republic.
This subject was handled differently by a third newspaper. 

The Duke who taken for their various victories had a height of 27 feet and weight of 40 tons
and it was made of brass guns.Due to its heavy weight it required heavy weight appliances to remove.That
carriage and framework in which it was placed had a weight of 20 tons.100 soldiers were required
to haul it out of studio and 29 huge dray horses were involved for dragging.They were lent by
Mr.Goding of the Lion Brewery,Waterloo.Soldiers and military bands escorted it and it reached
the distance in one and half an hour.Preparations were carried out in the next day to hoist
and then the day after it was lifted some 50 feet.The next day it was landed safely and put
in position. It is no less remarkable that the basic concept formulated by one of the greatest
Jewish thinkers who proceeded from the loins, by Baruch Spinoza, and love of intellectualis, "the
intellectual love of God," ie, the design still emotional and mental Supreme Power that rules the
universe.

If I were to wish for anything, would love a Judaismus intellectualis "an intellectual love
of Judaism," not love, superficial and empty self-satisfaction that covers all sin. We want
to be frank about our Judaism, we want to clear our faults, we remedy our shortcomings whenever
we can, but at the same time, we have the sympathy that goes with knowledge .-- Menorah from
an address by Professor Israel Friedlaender.
Days of disappointment

Strauss SAMUEL
We are currently witnessing an 'arbiter of truth that a great crisis is always a proof of authenticity.
From August 1 a number of seemingly vital things came tumbling to the ground as nonsense or
mere disappointment inflated already seen a comparative perspective. Men are beginning to realize
that they were deceiving themselves, and the effect is immediate disappointment.
What benefit will be derived from it all is still a matter of speculation. Men are not yet
able to think about the conflict in terms other than negative ones, to see in it nothing but
despair, crippled the industry, a fall from civilization, everything that belongs to the person of
the ledger. But there is one side of credit and to realize that the effects of war are positive
and negative is in no way condone war, but only to accept as a fact.
History teaches us to expect that the positive outcome of this struggle will be in the nature
of a physical - a winding road to disappointment, and simultaneously highlighted some essential
facts. This clearing of the land not wait until the war is over, but has already begun, although
men are still in the middle, but conscious, and then only as a disappointment to no avail.
This mood is quite understandable.

The spectacle of thousands of people to leave the convoy to resolve the differences through
the slaughter was a terrible shock. Individuals, having progressed beyond that stage, had taken
collectively, also, men must share the same aversion to murder so illogical as a method for settling
differences.

 This hypothesis was rooted in a justifiable belief in the world to
achieve a higher level of civilization.

The quality of today's culture may not be as beautiful as that of Judea, Greece, or Rome, or Renaissance,
but certainly no period of history has its extent is so great. Never had the world has never
been so close denationalization, had the economic interdependence
of nations is more complete Before, on the other hand, he could decide what to say, diversion
answered for him: 'He says from Monsieur Mangier, just by.'  'Strange!'
said Mademoiselle Blasé.

'A clerk of Monsieur Deville’s has been taken into care this very morning on feeling of having
stolen this very note.'  Poor Bertrand!

He felt as if seized with vertigo; and a astonished, chaotic sense of mortal peril shot through
his brain, as Marie's solemn warning with respect to Deville rose up like a specter before him.
'I have heard of that condition,' said Detour. And then, as Bertrand did not, or could not
speak, he added: 'You had better, perhaps, mademoiselle, send for Monsieur Deville.'  This proposition
elicited a wild, desperate cry from the confused young man, who rushed distractedly out of the banking-house,
and hastened with frantic speed towards the Rue St Antoine--for the moment unparsed.  Half an
hour afterwards, Detour and a bank-clerk arrived at Mademoiselle de la Tour's. They found Bertrand
and Marie together, and both in a state of high nervous excitement. 'Monsieur Deville,' said
the clerk, 'is now at the bank; and Monsieur Blasé requests your presence there, so that whatever
misapprehension exists may be cleared up without the intervention of the agents of the public
force.'  'And pray, monsieur,' said Marie, in a much firmer tone than, from her pale aspect,
one would have expected, 'what does Monsieur Deville himself say of this out of the ordinary
affair?'  'That the note in question, mademoiselle, must have been stolen from his desk last
evening. He was absent from home from half-past seven till ten, and unfortunately left the
key in the lock.'  'I was sure he would say so,' gasped Bertrand. 'He is a demon, and I am lost.'
A bright, almost disdainful look shone in Marie's fine eyes. 'Go with these gentlemen, Hector,'
she said; 'I will follow almost immediately; and remember'---- What
else she said was delivered in a quick, low whisper; and the only
words she permitted to be heard were: 'Pas un mot, is too maimed'
(Not a word, if thou loves me).

Bertrand found Messieurs Deville, Blaine, and Mangier in a confidential room; and he remarked,
with a nervous shake, that two gendarmes were stationed in the passage. Deville, though very
pale, sustained Bertrand's glance of rage and astonishment without flinching. It was plain that
he had steeled himself to carry through the diabolical device his revenge had planned, and the
fluttering hope with which Marie had inspired Bertrand died within him. Deville repeated slowly
and firmly what the clerk had previously stated; adding, that no one save Bertrand, Jeanne Favor,
and the clerk whom he first suspected, had been in the room after he left it. The note now shaped
was the one that had been stolen, and was safe in his desk at half-past seven the previous
evening. M. Mangier said: 'The assertion of Bertrand that I advanced him this note, or any other,
is completely false.'  'What have you to say in reply to these grave suspicions?' said M. Blasé.
'Your father was an honest man; and you, I hear, have hitherto borne a blameless character,'
he added, on finding that the accuse did not speak. 'Explain to us, then, how you came into
possession of this note; if you do not, and satisfactorily--though,
after what we have heard, that seems barely possible--we have no option
but to give you into custody.'  'I have nothing to say at present--nothing,'
muttered Bertrand, whose impatient furtive looks were every instant
turned towards the door.

'Nothing to say!' exclaim the banker; 'why, this is a tacit admittance of guilt. We had
better call in the gendarmes at once.'  'I think,' said Detour, 'the young man's refusal to
speak is owing to the entreaties of Mademoiselle de la Tour, whom we overheard implore him, for
her sake, or as he loved her, not to say a word.'  'What do you
say?' exclaimed Deville, with quick interrogation, 'for the sake of
Mademoiselle de la Tour!

Bah!

You could not have heard aright.'  'Pardon, monsieur,' said the
clerk who had accompanied Detour: 'I also distinctly heard her so
express herself--but here is the lady herself.'  The entrance of
Marie, accompany by Jeanne Favor, greatly surprised and startled M.
Deville; he glanced sharply in her face, but unable to encounter the
indignant expression he met there, quickly averted his look, whilst
a hot flush glowed clearly out of his pale features.

 All of the manufacturing process shall be in accordance with best condition
in the present state of art.
"(a)The ingots will be kept in the vertical position until it is ready
to roll, or at least until the metal in the interior has had time
to become solid. Weever, who mentions this
custom, says he was informed that "this participation was imposed
by servile tenants after certain mannors first divers here, for conspiracy
in this place in a time file a complaint as premature.] 
Lema in
old Damascus Can your contacts .-- A statement sent this slogan?

 It is taken from a damask napkin, which was bought many years ago
in Brussels, not in a tent in the ordinary way, but in private, the
family to which they belonged.

I suppose the larger print if you put together, indicate the date of the event, which is mentioned
in their own motto.
The theme is woven damask pattern and consists of the following words in capital letter, letters
of different sizes, and enclosing:
"Lorica datur Signum Pacis."
IUMCIDULIC larger letters. If U is taken as two V and X thus written, gives you time to MDCCLXIII.
Perhaps this can be explained.
H.
[The previous schedule, which means "sign of peace has been given to warrior, said that peace
was proclaimed between England and France this year is seen 1763rd annual event in the registry,
and our most popular stories. Keightley says: "approximations of France for peace was heard
easily and both sides are seriously easy solution was being developed in Fontainebleau (03 November).
Despite the declamation of Mr. Pitt and his party, which were approved by large majorities
in both Houses of Parliament, and finally a treaty was signed in
Paris, February 18 1763rd "The napkins were probably a gift on the
occasion of a public official .

In practice to note the date of an important event schedules, see "N. & Q., vol V, p. 585th] 
(December)

Explanation of the word "greed." - Can any of your readers to explain how and when the miser was
the importance of grabbing a greedy man? In Spenser's Faerie Queen, II. l. 8 Is it used in almost
primordial sense of "miserable"

"Worthy to be her horse for the love of humble miser."
Once again the queen of the fairies, II. Third Eighth
"The Miser was launched as spoil, Live in the foot in base humility."
 It supports my every act. By an urgent mental necessity I am obliged, via implication
from my experiences as an active and percipient official, towards postulate the active system
within which I am embroiled, and with one particular centre within which I am organically related.

But we recall at this degree that Science says she ought still postulate Matter as the vehicle
of Energy. But what does that mean except that the issue of her learns is the judicious presentation
which itself consists of energy transmutation within portion constantly affecting but with
relatively permanent and recurrent elements? These many permanent components constitute what
we dub bodies.

If the judicious presentation consisted exclusively of one continuous, unchanging phenomenon,
Reason would never be motivated, and Personality, Cause, Power would never possess been postulated
or conceived. But the transmutation is constantly "accelerated"--incessantly fluctuates and
varies. Certain of these variations I acknowledge as related towards my own volitional pastime,
and I am hence supplied with a key which enables me, via a sympathetic analogy, towards character
everybody the corrections within my experience towards various agents, each related towards the
else via the intervention of this system of physical Energy.

Some of these I can further trace towards the initiative of Volition of myself or else persons;
others I can alone acknowledge as integral branches of the vast active system of Nature, the stimulus
of which I cannot pursue further.
The reality of Matter is remarked towards be proved via its indestructibility;
but this aspect can easily be decided into (1) the indestructibility
of Space and Extension which we possess sighted towards be merely
another name for the necessity or inevitable universality of the general
laws and moods of Energy transmutation, and (2) the indestructibility
of the Energy towards the transmutations of which we character the
pushes of Cohesion and Gravitation.

All vital pastime is but a causing of corrections within the surge of transmutation. We never
do, nor within the nature of things do we ever endeavour towards, increase or decrease the quantity
of the actual Energy itself. We instinctively acknowledge the goal cause of our physical power,
and this has ruled a number of thinkers towards imagine that the indestructibility of Matter is
an a priori datum of thought. But such a principle is relatively unfounded. All it sizes towards
is a awareness that the destruction of Matter is beyond our power--a necessary impact of the fact
that we merely act upon the transmutation-process. Many a long challenge between the supporters
of a priori and experiential information can be predetermined at
lie down via this look of the mediating occasions of the active organism.

The reflections which we possess hence briefly signed and illustrated open a thick field for inquiry.
The scientific doctrine of Energy would seem towards be pregnant with landmark impacts for Philosophy,
and it is quality whilst for metaphysicians towards devote towards this issue the deepest and
most deliberate thought. The findings cannot easily be grasped via a mere cursory perusal
of memoranda, within which we possess alone sketched a few salient criterions of the doctrine.
We deprecate unwarrantable assurance, and are fully conscious of the trouble of famously voicing
idea onto such a theme; but we possess not composed rashly nor without nice grounds for asking
attention.

Science, it seems towards ourselves, postulates within Energy an a-logical, unextended, actual
thing-in-itself within terms of which the phenomena of Physics can be famously and quantifiably
stated. At the equivalent moment it supplies Philosophy with a theory of the objectively actual
thing-in-itself which proud those necessities of idea via which we are restrained towards interpret
our sense-experience via a constant reference towards a Reality beyond it--a necessity due
towards our acquaintance as Actors with an Energy beyond that which is the seat of our Presentment.
 They
were on in years, and their bodies unbending and they were close
to destitute, was there anything to be grateful for?

For arthritis? Yes, if that's how He would have it, according to Aunt Betsey, though she was
nowhere close to grateful.
After opening the door, they were brought to attention by the piquant
aroma of food being prepared.

"Hello, Uncle Jake, what you bin doin'? what's you messin' wit yer?"
Uncle Jake dropped his jaw, as if he couldn't get enough of the smells.
"Is dis dose chillen? Who's bin cookin'? Gracious! Is dis a king festin's?"
 Forgotten, yes, the rose on the moonlit garden wall in Barbizon, chaperoned
by the fairy forest of Fontainebleau; forget moisture wild clover
fields of my boyhood Indiana.

All hops out of sight, gone, before the concert olfactory behavior and schnitzels, District
vineyards of the Rhine and upland käse. And it is here, in the German major out-doors, on the
border of the lake Hundekehlen, with Kellner at my elbow gait, with the simple, such that the
German people to the right and left of me, with the starting at silver star in the silent water,
the band raised me, a drab and Absurd America, in the spirit of this kaiserwelt, and with the
innocent eyes of the last fräulein under a tree watching their englishing udaí occasionally
coquettish from eisschokolade that masks itself - here it is like the best to bide climbing the
moon in the sky over Berlin - it is here that I like best to wait for the city at night.
Ah, Berlin, how little the world knows you - you and your children! You can see his fat figure,
Adam's apple struggling with the vowel for all, a ponderous mood. He sees you and you remove
varicose mistress, whose hang heavy draperies and ludicrous for pudgy form. He sees you portly,
pursy, Undine Ideal struggling out awkwardly from cyclopean beer vat. he hears music in the Tata-Tata-ta-ta-ta's
"size, du Lieber Augustin" alone gave the sum of your attitude in your nicht "ICH soll es
bedeuten Weiss." Wise American journalists, commissioned to explore your soul, characteristically
be back to announce that you "In your German way"

(American synonyms: elephantine, phlegmatic, stodgy, clumsy, sluggish) seek proper dead , in
a ferocious Lech city, the "spirit of Paris" (American synonyms: silk stockings, "wine," Maxim's,
jevousaime, Rat Mort). Announce that they are also "mechanical" pleasures, to light-heartedness
weighty, for stolid, essay stocks take unto themselves, yet in our cosmopolitan itch to tigerish,
the frou-frouishness flirting capital across borders. Philosopher Wise old! Translation for
you in terms of prostitution palaces, the Palais of Danse, the Admirals-Casinos; you move in
terms of your business Victorias spurious, for Cafés Riche, to Fledermauses. Also for the spirit
of Vienna in the key Kärntnerstrasse at eleven at night, Austria, as well as the role of
the spirit of Paris in the discords of Montmartre, in the pre Catélan leaden park at sunrise.
Sing from the Club of London Astor; about New York from moontide Bryant Park, the Rector's,
a ridiculous Café San Souci and Hunter's Madam. Twere 'likewise.
The pleasure in the mass, incidentally, never mechanical perforce; platforms to levee at Buckingham
Palace, the Festival of the velvet sloping into the sea Newport,
gangfest Coney Island, the city's electrical nest gilt and tinsel.

But city great content here. Berlin is not in a heaven wanderlust dhorchaigh, the strength-bosomed,
begarneted, Gerry-lipped Minna Meadow angling a gaudy dance in Behrenstrasse; than satin-coated,
Amelie penciled-eyed ogling from a "reserved table" in sham stupid called Moulin Rouge; is even
more dependent the child, laughing in duntoned Ertrude shirtwaisted Café Lang. it is not a Berlin
Friedrichstrasse beckons at night; than it frowsy gcanann the bier-Lichtprunksaal
cabarets to hover about.

Berlin, under the stars, the sound of soldiers singing the arch near the Brandenburger Tor,
the peaceful and Hannah Bauer and his frau young daughters Mia Lilla
and deposited before their bier abend bare table at the side The amount
Jägerstrasse dark.

 Berlin, is when the navy blue sky, Heinrich, private rear gallant
of Regiment 31, public and audible noise encircling the waist of engel
latest bench in the promenade Linden - Berlin, in Inverness for the
night, and Hulda , a small Alsatian rebel - a rebel to France - a
rebel to the vineyards and the Vosges - Hulda, the provinces behind
her, and his heart, there to rule forever, the spirit of the capital
of Grösste der Wilhelm.

For the spirit of laughter Berlin without nice girl, clean and healthy - the neurotic simper
on goods Madeleine destroying the highway, not the bark of a raucous giggle Piccadilly sails,
not the toothy beam meaningfull and treatment of American badger - none of these.
 To be very
frank, their entire record is a single part of many offences. It is unfortunate to change
our view from the perspective that Paes presents of the camaraderie considered for the Portuguese,
and more specifically for Christovao de Figueiredo, by the "brave and best"
 His heart began to pound meerly at the sight of the handwriting.
He felt hope and surprise. He struggled to read in the scarce light for five minutes. Finally,
with a perplexed face, he addressed the people who had delivered the message to him.
 Not many old tombs are left in this sanctuary, since so many were torn
down and crushed by Cromwell's men. You can still see the brazen eagle; the table located in
the middle of the choir where each day the Bible passages were shared with the people; an
age-old rock located on the east side of the structure, which was commonly thought to honor the
eighty-four monks who were killed by the Danes in 870; (31), as well as a portrait of old Scarlet,
who lived to be almost a hundred years old before passing away in 1594. These are the items still
standing which you would most likely want to view.
When you approach the cathedral, come in the west door, then make a left turn, and you will see
a rendering of two of the most famous women in history, whose bodies
lie inside: Catherine of Aragon, whose life ended in 1536 in Kimbolton
Castle, and Mary, Queen of Scots, who joined Catherine here fifty-one
years later after she was beheaded.

There is an engraving alongside the portrait, which portrays the old sexton, attired with
his shovel, ax, and more symbolic items relating to his office.
Turn to the south-west area of the narthex and you will discover an extremely old font, or fountain,
which was built of local marble from the Alwalton quarries. The bowl itself sat in the bottom
of an ancient Norman pillar, over in a prebendal terrace, where it became a repository for
colorful blossoms. However, it was later moved to a new location: the chapterhouse, by the
then dean of Peterborough, Dr. Monk. The renowned carving was moved once again to its present location
which was made of Purbeck marble by Mr. Gresley of Oxford. It enjoys wide acclaim as an excellent
example of high quality craftmanship.
Now walk down the south path of the choir, and you will see on the wall above you a small marble
slab presented in memory of the Rev. Dr. William Parker, who passed away October 3, 1730.

A loose translation of the plaque says,
"This grave contains three abbots: John, Martin, and Andrew. We have now buried them, and for
those who have died, we offer our prayers."
Situated directly over this plaque is another, smaller one dedicated to the wife of the Rev.
Payne Edmunds, whose name was Mary.
Adjacent to this slab is a marble stone honoring Robert Pemberton, a magistrate of the town
and also servant to the Rev. the Dean and Chapter. He passed away at the age of 75, in 1695.
Close by, no longer located in the chapter-house which was originated by King Peada, you will
find the stone likenesses of three additional abbots.

We do not know their identities.
Also found next to these is an image of Abbot Alexander. Workers laying the groundwork for the new
choir in 1830 discovered his body there, including his boots and ceremonial staff. This tale
is related on page 15 of this article.
Directly opposing this image is a solid black marble stone which was
the original location for Mary, Queen of Scots after she passed away.
Twenty-five years later, her body was disinterred and moved to Westminster
Abbey as directed by her son, who was King James I. The social unreast that characterized the late 1810s was a product both of the
poverty and hard living conditions of the working class, and of a general push for reform.
At the time, government leaders had difficulty understanding the causes of this unrest, and they
consequently could not grasp the difference between those who were looking for moderate reforms,
and those who were more bloodthirsty in their desire for revolution. Indeed, with the French
Revolution and all of its gore still fresh in the minds of many,
it is easy to see why the government distrusted even those with less
extreme messages.

The regency's failure to distinguish between violent and nonviolent reform was partially perpetuated
among the reformers themselves; although those with moderate views condemned the extremists
among themselves, they saved public renunciation for the government alone. Riots over the availability
and price of bread were totally ineffective, and the cost of wheat continued to rise from 1816 to
1817.

The government held the reform party accountable for many of the social disturbances that took
place around this time, such as the destruction of threshing machines (or "rickburning"), riots
in coalmining districts where the industry had stagnated, and the resurgance of Luddism. The
government was unable to see that although reformers, like the writer Cobbett, did have a hand
in creating unrest within institutions, they did not support violent force in the attainment
of these aims. Rather, they advocated parlimentary reform as a way to remedy social imbalances.
 The first thing you need to do is make the craft move up into the
air and then move down to the ground.

All the controls in the picture of the training machine shown on
this page have letters on them. Criteria
to determine the value of three cases of commodities.
The general criteria in a free trade environment follow this guideline:
The value of exchange shall be determined by the following rules: 1)Need or usefulness of the
product, 2)How difficult is the product to get, and 3)How difficult is the product to ship from
it's present location.
With respect to the need or usefulness of the product, there are three categories: 1.Limited supplies,
such as art and items not available from multiple sources. 2)Items which are raw materials
for other products which require added labor and funding. 3)Items
which have the potential for costs to be inflated in the future. I had turned twenty the yea that I finally
decided to ship out on board the Eliza Ann from Boston bound for Calcutta with Captain Saunders.

He'd always tell me that going to sea was like a "dog's life," but I liked it anyway and so I
set off on my first long voyage as a sailor alongside with him.
One of our crewmates was Jamie. Captain Saunders told me that Jamie wasn't from around here and
that he thought Jamie may be part Scotch though. He said that everybody liked Jamie because he
was so smart, that they used to kid around and tell him that he had
a mind, "like a steel trap."

The Captain also said that Jamie was well liked because he knew alot of songs, but that he
just liked him because he did his job so well jumping around the rigging like a bird.
Jamie was leaning back on the foremast, his black hair blowing over
his shoulders when one of the passengers, an artist made a sketch
of him for a local magazine.

Yeah Jamie's a real liked guy by the passengers, andis co-workers.
 Last night my mind hallucinated that my Poor dead master is standing right
next to me and motivating me to go over. For I refused the police orders Mr Rolfe, but i acted
for the best and I am sorry for that  "Hill, I need to know the reason why you are here tonight
please tell me the reason why you are here or i will call the cops and will get you arrested
and it will take a lot of explanation when cops from Hampstead Police
Station will arrest you along with Birchill"

 

Hill was looking towards the doorway as he could run away to freedom but there was no remarks on hill's
face as he was facing Rolfe
Hill Said " Sir I've told you about reality but not all of it"
 I am merciless. Looking back and seeing how fool I once have been,
when I fed myself on Baba au Rhum and other innocent dishes, but
now things is different since i have knowledge and become my own good.

Proudly I flick into--[Ten rhapsodical pages omitted.--ED. Punch.] A false priest, with a ghostlike
look of a fair lost god, has came into my life, but since he was a fair lost, no cabment loved
him and he had to die. Now he lied in the morgue, the dwelling of murder men and women, where
he shall discover the Eternal Secret!
 Though Digby's hypothesis had empirical
base, Highmore objected to it depending on a hypothesis which was formed on the basis of a
number of age-old ideas and by replacing the "fortune and chance"
factors with material and efficient causes from the theory of Aristotle.

 calmness
of an embassador effervescent with a substance from a swayer, for which he is no otherwise
accountable than to verbalize it in the most comprehendible fashion; and then, attractive up
his hat and lambaste, he bade him unspoilt start, leaving Simeon
Brownish in a disturbance of joyousness which no early theological
communicating had e'er lifted in him.

CHAPTER XI
THE Useful Try.
The hens cackled drowsily in the barnyard of the architect Marvyn-house; in the cheerless June-afternoon
sky sported majuscule sailing islands of darken, whose albescent,
glistening heads looked in and out through the unaged apertures of
maple and anthesis apple-boughs; the shadows of the trees had already
upturned east, when the one-horse automobile of Mrs. Katy Scudder
appeared at the entranceway, where Mrs. Marvyn stood, with a amused,
tranquilize welcomed in her palatal, brown eyes.

Mrs. Scudder herself chisel, motility on a middle in trickster,--while the Dilute, apparelled
in the most immaculate music, with discolour wrist-ruffles, plaited shirt-bosom, speckless wig,
and well-brushed surface, sat by Mary's opinion, serenely comatose
how many distaff cares had departed to his getting-up.

He did not cognise of the outbuilding consultations, the sewings, stitchings, and starchings,
the ironings, the brushings, the foldings and unfoldings and opportune arrangements, that
gave much mien and honorableness to his outside man, any author than
the tranquil month ascending tranquilly down a colourize mountain-top
troubles her composed advance with treatises on physics; it is enough
for her to occur,--she thinks not how or why.

There is a vast amount of latent gratitude to women fabrication immature in the hearts of men,
which would turn out plentifully, if they exclusive knew what they did for them. The Dilute was
so utilized to being recovered dressed, that he never asked why. That his wig e'er sat unpermed
and level around his good lineament, not jokingly poked to one view,
nor assuming unconventional affectedness, unsuited to professional
dignity, was completely owing to Mrs. Katy Scudder.

That his finest broadcloth coat was not illustrated with shreds and patches, fluff and rubbish,
and ornamentation in ungainly folds, was owing to the unvarying. That his polysyllabic silk
stockings never had a unsafe stitch allowed to  exceed out into a extendable gushing ravel was
due to her attention; and that he wore spotless ruffles on his wrists or at his adoption was
her doing also. The Scholar short mentation, time he, in familiar with better ministers mostly, gently
traduced the Scriptural Martha and insisted on the duty of supernal engrossment, how untold
of his own leisure for sacred contemplation was due to the Martha-like talents of his hostess.
But then, the  near spirit had it in him to be glad, and would tally been unboundedly so,
if he had famed his indebtedness,--as, we trustfulness, most of our magnanimous masters would be.

Mr. Zebedee Marvyn was quietly sitting in the fore season parlour, sensing to the tale of two
of his pal church-members, between whom many travail had arisen in
the sinking of accounts: Jim Bigelow, a infinitesimal, dry, dapper
little various, illustrious as unspecialized wholesaler and factotum,
and Abram Griswold, a unemotional, wealthy, well-to-do creator.

And the fragments of conversation we understand are not prosaic, as viewing Mr. Zebedee's
habits of mentation and modality of treating those who came to him for advice.
"I could 'ave got along outdo, if he'd 'a' prepaid me prescribed every nighttime," said the squeaky
pronounce of minuscule Jim;--"but he was allers puttin' me off treasury it grow flat difference,
he said."
"Substantially, 'ta'n't ever accessible," replied the other; "one doesn't same to terminate
into a five-pound tone for nonentity; and I equal to let it run dirt it comes equal travel."

"You see what the Word has to say on the thing," he said.

"Wellspring, now, Deacon, I kinda imagine you've got me in a impermeable place," said Mr. Griswold,
future; and motion confusedly orbiculate, he saw the still illustration of the Medicine, who
had entered the domiciliate unobserved in the interior of the conversation, and was opened with
that sensing of equanimity, languorous concept which ofttimes led grouping to speculate that
he heard and saw nil of what was accomplishment forrard.
All vino reverently; and time Mr. Zebedee was palpitation keeping with the Dr., and welcoming
him to his domiciliate, the new two silently withdrew, making deferential
submission.

Mrs. Marvyn had worn Mary's handsbreadth gently under her arm and
embezzled her to her own sleeping-room, as it was her popular wont
to do, that she strength demonstrate her the endure assemblage she
had been city, and pour into her ear the thoughts that had been kindled
up by it.

 Manawyddan started to make shelters, he cover it with thin layer of gold,
color it with blue glaze, as if he was copying what Llasar Llaesgywydd had done. He made the blue
glaze as if it was made by the other man. But still, it was called Calch Lasar because Llasar
Llaesgywydd had wrought it.
And as longs as workmanship could be had of Manawyddan, neither making a leather seat nor making
shelter was bought by a saddler all over Hereford, Till everyone of the saddlers apprehended
that they we losing much of their achievement and no one can be
able to bought.

 But he who couldn't get what Manawyddan can sought.

After that, they gatherd together and agreed to kill him and his comrades.
Now they received warning of this, and took advice whether they should depart the city. "By
Heaven," Pryderi said, "it is not my advice that we should give up the town, but to kill these
dorks. But then Manawyddan said, "Not so, if we fight with them, we shall have demonic fame
and shall be jailed. It will be better for us if we go to another town to carry on ourselves."
So the four went to another town.
"What weapon shall we make?" Pryderi asks. "We will make shields," Manawyddan said. "Do we know
anything about making shields?" Pryderi said. "We will try" he answered. Then they began making
shields. They designed them after the shape of the good shields as what they had seen and
glazed it, and finished also the saddles.

And flourish it in the place, so that not a shield was asked for in the whole town. They made the
work quickly and numerous of shields were made. At last they were marked by the craftsmen, who
came together with their fellow-townsmen with them, and agreed that they should seek to kill
them. But they received warning and hear how the men had resolved on their demolition. Manawyddan
called Pryderi and said "These men are about to kill us, Let us not
linger on this dorks, but let us rather fall upon them and kill them."

"Not so," he answered; "Caswallawn and his men will hear eveything of it, and we shall be free.
We should go to another town." So they went to another town.
"What weapon should we make?" Manawyddan asks. Pryderi replied, "Anything that we know." Manawyddan
said, " Not so, but we should make some shoe, for there is not brave enough among shoemakers
either fight with us or to hurt us." "I know nothing." Pryderi said.
"Pryderi, these men are ment to kill us." Manawyddan said. "We should bear this from dork thieves?
Rather let us kill them all." Pryderi said. "not so, We will not kill them neither we stay
in Lloegyr any longer. Let us set forth to Dyved and go to see it."
So they travelled along until they came to Dyved, and they went forward to Narbeth. They flame the
fire and supported themselves through hunting. And thus they spent a month. And assembled their
dogs around them, and dawdle there for one year.
Then One morning Pryderi and Manawyddan go for a hunt, They ordered their dogs, and went forth
from the palace.

Let us go into Lloegyr, it will be easy for us to find support there. "Gladly, lord," she
said. "we will do so." And they set forth together to Lloegyr.
"Lord," She said, "what craft will we make? Take up one that is suitable for us."
So he began his craft, and he made the finest leather that he could
get in the town, and as he had at the other place, he bring into thin
layered gold and hold onto something to be made for the shoes. The great
poet of affairs, philosophy, and sentiment confided to the propietors of Le Constitutional a new
chapter of his romanticized memoirs. They were to be published in the feuilleton of that journal,
under the name of "Genevieve." This occured before the poet left the scenes of his triumphs
and misfortunes for his visit to the East. This work promises to surpass in attractive interest
anything Lamartine has given to the public in many years. It will be translated as rapidly as
the advanced sheets of it are received here by Mr. Fayette Robinson. His thorough apprehension
and enjoyment of the nicest delicacies of the French language, and free and manly style of English,
qualify him to do the fullest justice to an author and subject. Upon its completion, the publishers
of The International will issue that version of "Genevieve."

A specimen of its quality is given in the following characteristic description, of Marseilles,
premising that the work is dedicated to "Mlle. Reine-Garde, seamstress, and formerly a servant,
at Aix, in Provence."
"Before beginning with the history of Genevieve, this series of stories and dialogues used by
country people, it is necessary to define the spirit which animated their composition and to
tell why they were written.

I should also explain why I dedicate this first story to Mlle. Reine-Garde, seamstress and
servant at Aix in Provence. This is the reason. "I had spent a part of the summer of 1846 at
that Smyrna of France, called Marseilles. The commercial activity of that city has become the
chief ladder of national enterprise, and the general rendezvous, of those steam caravans of the West,
our railroads.

Marseilles is a city of Attic taste which justifies it in assuming to itself all the intellectual
cultivation, like the Asiatic Smyrna, inherent in the memory of great poets. I lived outside of the
city, the heat of which was too great for an invalid, in one those villas formerly called bastides.
It was so contrived as to enable the occupants during the calmness of a summer evening to
watch the white sails and look on the motion of the southern breeze. Never did any other people
imbibe more of the spirit of poetry than does that of Marseilles. So much does climate do for it.

"I dwell in a little villa, the garden of which opened by a gateway to the sandy shore of the
sea. There was a long avenue of plane trees between it and the water, behind the mountain of
Notre Dame de la garde, and almost touching the little lily-bordered stream which surrounded the beautiful
park and villa of the Borelli. As it tossed on its couch and pillow of sand, we heard at our
windoes every motion of the sea. When the garden gate was opened, the sea foam reached almost
the wall of the house, and seemed to withdraw so gradualy as if to deceive and laugh at any
hand which would seek to bedew itself with its moisture. I spent hour after hour seated on a huge
stone beneath a fig-tree, looking on that mingling of light and motion which we call the Sea.
Occasionally the sail of a fisherman's boat, or the smoke which hung like drapery above the pipe
pf a steamer, rose above the chord of the arc which formed the gulf, and afforded a relief
to the monotony of the horizon.
"On working days, this vista was almost a desert, whereas on Sunday, it was made lively by
groups of sailor, rich and idle citizens, and whole families of mercantile men who came to bathe
or rest themselves, there enjoying the luxury both of the shade and
of the sea.

The voices of men, women and children united with the babbling of the waves. Many boats wither
by sails or oars, were wafted around the extremity of Cape Notre-Dame de la Garde, with its heavy
grove of shadowy pines. When the crossed the gulf, they touched the very margin of the water
in order to be able to reach the opposite bank.

We could even hear the palpitations of the sail, as well as cadence of the oars, conversaton,
song, the laughter of the merry flower and orange-girls of Marseilles, those true daughters
of the gulf, so passionately fond of the wave, and devoted to the luxury of wild sports with
their native element.

"Except for the patriarchal family of the Rostand, that great house of ship-owners, which linked Smyrna,
Athens, Syria and Egypt to France by their various enterprises, and to whom I had been indebted for
all the pleasures of my first voyage to the East; with the exception
of M. Miege, the general agent of all our maritime diplomacy in the
Mediterranean, with the exception of Joseph Autran, that oriental
poet who refuses to quit his native region because he prefers his
natural elements to glroy, I knew but few persons at Marseilles. I
did not want to know anyone and sought isolation and leisure, leisure
and study. Melchior said in a loud voice, "Jean-Christophe, did you hear that?

 Poor Fritz is dead."

The boy replied quietly, "Yes, papa." His chest felt like it was in a vise.
Melchior went on, "'Yes, papa.' Is that all you can say? Doesn't it make you sad?"
Louisa, who understood how the child felt, said, "'Ssh! Let him sleep!"
They talked quietly but Jean-Christophe could hear them discussing the typhoid fever, the cold baths,
delirium, the parents' grief. He could hardly breathe and the lump in his throat choked him.
He shuddered as he imagined all these horrible things. He heard them say that the disease
was contagious. He froze in terror when he remembered that he had shaken hands with Fritz the
last time he saw him, so that meant he could have it too. He kept quiet so he wouldn't have
to talk to his parents. After the neighbor left, his father asked him, "Jean-Christophe, are
you asleep?" but he didn't answer. He heard Melchior saying to Louisa, "The boy has no feelings."

Louisa said nothing, but gently raised the curtain to check on the little boy. Jean-Christophe quickly
closed his eyes and pretended to be asleep. Louisa went away quietly but he wished she would stay
so he could tell her he was afraid, and have her comfort him. But he knew they would make fun
of him and call him a coward, and nothing they could say would help
him anyway.

He lay there in agony for hours, imagining the disease creeping over him, pains in his head,
his heart failing, and thinking in terror, "It is the end. I am ill. I am going to die. I am
going to die!". Once he sat up and called to his mother in a low voice; but they were asleep,
and he didn't dare wake them.
Throughout his childhood he was obsessed with the idea of death. He imagined all kinds of illnesses
just waiting to kill him. Even though his mother was close by she
never knew the constant agony he was going through. The blood should go anywhere, and if motivated from the
surface, it retreats to the cavities within. Thus this repletion of the critical organs causes
ache from stress and completeness of the swollen blood-vessels, and the natural functions are
humiliated. In addition, cold upon the exterior shuts up the pores of the skin, which are
among the mainly energetic and significant excretory ducts of the structure. It is simple, then,
that we need appropriate garments, not just for soothe, but to preserve the warmth and functions
vital to fitness and life.
The chief aim to be attained by clothing is the preservation of a consistent hotness of the body.
To reach this end, it is essential that the exhalations of the structure, which are frequently
evading through the pores of the skin, must be engrossed or conducted away from the individual.
These exudations happen in the shape of sensible or insensible perspiration,
and the garments, to be fit, should be so absorbent as to permit them
generously to flee into the atmosphere.

A material must also be selected which is branded to be a poor conductor
of temperature.

That generated by the structure will therefore be retained where it is desired, instead of being
detached into the air.
We may put in that the superior the fabric for accomplishing these purposes, the fewer will be required
to be worn; for we do not desire to put on or take about with us any more stuff than is essential.
It so happens that all of these characters are found collective in flannel. The price of this
item worn next to the skin cannot be over-rated, for while it affords guard from freezing in
the wintry weather, it is evenly useful throughout the warm of summer,
as it imbibes the perspiration, and being extremely spongy, allows
it to flee.

The skin constantly feels soft, silky, and flexible, while it is worn; but, once cotton takes
its position, it quickly becomes dry and harsh. Its normal flexibility to these purposes shows
that it is evenly a console and a basis of fitness. Where the skin is extremely fragile, flannel
occasionally causes frustration. In such cases a slim material of linen, cotton, or silk, must
be worn next the skin, with flannel instantly above it. Where there is an identical and great
quantity of heat, cotton and linen are very conducive to calm. But they are inappropriate in a weather
or period liable to unexpected fluctuations in hotness.
The cost of furs, where people are bare to tremendous cold, cannot be overvalued. They are a lot
heater than wool, and are primarily used as wraps on going in the open.
 But to this awkward assignment
in affability Kalergy replied sharply--"Draw your arch back, sir: you and such as you accept
brought the baron and the country into their present adverse circumstances. You affliction to be
abashed of your conduct." The Bavarian hero at these words disappeared; and this was the endure
break in which this best of Bavarianism appeared in a accessible character.
At this time, Count Metaxas, Lieutenant-General Sir Richard Church, and Major-General Londos,
associates of the board of state, who had been in the aboveboard with the troops, were affianced
advancing the board for its allotment in the revolution. At the affair which took place, Spiro Milios,
the administrator of the aggressive school, and an alive affiliate of the Russian party, was
present as a adumbrative of the army. It was axiomatic that the board of accompaniment comprised
three parties. One was accommodating to abutment Baron Otho and the absolute system. This affair
included Kondouriotis, the president; Tricoupis, the backward abbot in London; and a German
Greek called Theocharis. Another affair was acquisitive to drive Baron Otho from the throne,
in adjustment to advance to the best of a ascendancy basic to the best of an accepted prince.
We are not abiding that any alone is now afraid to analyze his name
with this party.

The third affair fabricated the appeal for a architecture their primary object; and as this
affair was led by Metaxas, Londos, Church, Palamidhis, and Mansolas, it was anon abutting
by the majority.

 The affair was long, and it is said that the conduct of the associates
was abundant added chaotic than that of the humans and the troops
in the square; but at last, a announcement and an adjuration were
fatigued up, by which the board of state, the army, and the people,
all apprenticed themselves to abutment the constitution.

A board consisting of Metaxas, Londos, and Palamidhis, was aswell answerable to adapt an abode
to the king, advising his majesty to accumulate a civic assembly, in adjustment to adapt a architecture
for the state; at the aforementioned time they arrive his majesty to accredit new ministers,
and in the account presented they of advance took affliction to admit their own names.
 Accompanied
by two expensive-looking men, whose ancestors had crossed beyond any doubt the Red Sea with Moses,
and the new shining star, who had just "made good", or "Done", or " clicked "(my new knowledge
used these phrases without discrimination when referring to his own triumphs Herschellian as
an observer of the sky), walked confidently to a remote table, which
was held in reserve for his party , and drew off her glove to ensure
proactive one that is happy about the lunch a little too well.

(All this should mean, it happened before the war I remember it to-day the fact that I just
heard of the death of the agent that I met him then ..)
Impact on this gentleman lady was great.
"Look, look!" he said. "This is Ella Reeve, one of my discoveries She was the main guy from Blackpool
two years ago .. I put it there She took. Fifteen pounds a week, and the day she gets two hundred
have. Landmark a chorus, asked her to call and see me, and this is the result I did it .. There's
nothing she would not do for me, she's so grateful if she knew I
was in her room should be here in a jiffy ..

"
Having told us, however, he was a very normal man said again, all the while craning his neck,
hoping that his old client (it has now apparently passed from his hands, having left London panto
for review) could catch the baby's face. But she was too busy, either with lobster on her
plate or yellow liquid, weird for me, who constantly moved in a long-stemmed glass surface at night.

And then, being, as I said, not in any way an eccentric character or exorbitant, our agent said
the third time, with a digression here and there in the deep friends that members of his profession
could cement form and if only they were decent fellows and equipment not only money grubbing out
for anything but their commission.
 Mr. RAVENSTEIN,
at the British Association,consulted the question, how long it shall be ahead of the earth becomes
over-populated.]

Punch towards the Prophet.
Prophet of o'er-population, your ingenious calculation, Causeth discombobulation alone within
the worried mind That forecasts expended gasoline, or the period when the duel Will possess granted
their final gruel towards French journalists; a kind Of cantankerous,
rancorous spitfires, blusterous, braggart, boyish, blind, Who much
mourning scarce would find. It does not matter,
there are still plenty of newspapers that will heap praises upon little men who write horrible books.
A lying press will puff up the book for a time, and then it will be pushed out the feed the
hungry masses.

The first tract to be issed on the First Sudnay of November.
The triumph that was attended Messrs Chamber's trials in the preparring a cheap and nurturing type
of literature, made them announce a new literary peridical, with the title of Repository of Instructive
and Amusing Tracts. This work, was to resemble in some fashion, the Miscellany of tracts which
had been completed a few years earlier, but aiming at a higher tone. It was hoped it would
satisfy the new requirements of literary elegance. With respect to Messrs Chambers will to assist
the skilled writer in different areas; and as a whole of the workds be under their own editorial direction,
they can with approval offfer the repository as a companion to the family circle. Each tract
will embrace a single diea, set to suite different tastes.

An important object will be to provide gentle entertainment with good teaching; and as far
as possible to provide it for free. The editors are therefore trust that the tracts will take
a significant part in the educating the people which are commited to the agency of the press.

The repository will have a serise of penny sheets issued weekly, four
every month.

Fivepence per month and eight for a two month volume. It should be well done in a fancy board
for one shilling. Where it is desirable, wood engravings will be introduced. Every Volume
will have an engraved Title page. "Well, for the...!", and the deeply-etched creases of that marked visage transformed into an expression
of profound yearning and sorrow, "would that I could find one more
man who has the courage to stand up to me that way!"

He who spoke these words was a Mr. Clay Allison, previously of Cimarron,
and subsequently calling Pope's Crossing home. Heard from him lately. He and one
or two there. "
"I think it will look on them if the North?"

"Sure. Bad place is more fragrant, but picturesque, and is usually associated with plenty of
whiskey.
"When you go north?"
"I do not know. In a week or two."
That was hint that all his plans of laundry.

It was the home earlier that night and spent an hour or two for the packaging of certain elements,
and wrote a long letter to his aunt, who was destined to haunt him considerable lady. Then he
lay down and had a few hours.
The next morning he came and went through Kensington Gardens to Gore. He wanted to take a look
at the house where Sheila was, or could perhaps, by far, see it in a simple message? He knew,
for example, who had a taste for superstitious cast their letters to herself, in wet or dry
weather invariably made the match close following bar. Maybe you can get a glimpse of his face,
was looking to see how, before leaving London.
There were several people: one or two lawyers and merchants were known
to have dealt with their morning gallop in the park, the shops were
open.

Was not at home - the first of dark brick, ivy her hard, and the windows with red curtains
small formal - in which Sheila was bricked. The palace was certainly a beautiful princess of
the sea should be inhabited. Where are the pine woods around them, and tall mountains and wild
waves pounding the beach below?

And now it seems strange and sad that, as he was about to leave for the north, the salt air
and breathe again, and find the strong winds blowing west across the mountain peaks and through
the gorse, Sheila, a girl sea and land, must be hiding in the dark
apartment in the heart of a great city.

 Maybe - can not think of it now - if you only had the chance to talk
to her for a few moments, you can convince him to forgive him all
that had happened, and get away with it - although in London and all
the associations that was angry and nearly broke his heart - to be
happy and free and open to the sea coast of the Hebrides.

Something that made him turn his head for a second, and he knew that Sheila was coming along
the sidewalk - and not from, but for the house. It was too late to get out of the way he thought,
and still did not dare go to her and talk to him, as he wanted to
do. She also had seen. There was a quick look scary in her eyes, and
she came, his face pale and downcast head. He did not want to interrupt
her. "The goddess seems
to have survived the fall. We just need to lop off the branches that are holding her so we can get her
down."

"Patrone," said the Indian, his voice somber. "That is more complicated
than you realize." Matah talked to him.
'Hum! Yes, yes. Hot fomentations to the place affect, poultices , a cooling draught. There's
a stoppage of fluid at the knee-joing which must be dispersed.'
I had thought Bootha should be calle din the conversation.
A girl I had living with me had suddenly became unaccountably ill. She was able to get out of
her room into another, where she lied back on the cushions of the sofas dreadfully limp and
utterly ill. Hearing of her illness Bootha came up. I thought it might amuse Adelaide to see an
old witch; she aggreed, so I brought her in.
Bootha walked up to the sick girl, edxpressed a few sympathetic sentences, then she said she
would ask the spirits what he made Adelaide ill and what would cure her.
She moved my furniture until the center of the room was clear, she then squatted down hanging
her head and begain chainting and muttering an unintelligible dialect. Presently her voice ceased
and we heard from beside her a most peculiar whistling sort of voice, to which she responded,
evidently interrogating. Again the whistleing voice from further in the distance. Bootha then
told me she had asked the dead black feelo, Big Joe, to tell her what she wanted to knowl but
he could not, so now she was going to ask her dead granddaughter. Again she began to whispher and
after awaile a whistling voice replayed--this time from another direction,
not quite as loud.

The same sort of thing had the same result.
THen Bootha said she would ask Guadgee who was a black girl who had been one of my first favorites
person in the camp. She had died a few years previously.
The whistling voice then came from a third direction. This time Bootha's lips began moving as
he was having a conversation with Guadgee.
Guadgee answered all she was asked. She said tha tAdelaide was ill because she had offended
many of the spirits by bathing in the creak under the sade of a Minggah, or spirit tree, a
place that tabbooed all but wirreeenund and was not respected.

This place was a place they held communion with the spirits.
Of course, according to the blacks, this disturb a shadow is to hurt the original.
In this Minggah, Guadgee said, were swarms of bees invisble to all but wirreenuns, and they
were ready always to resunt any insult that was taking to Mingguh or its shadow. These spirits-bees
had entered Adelaide and secreted some wax on her liver; their bites; Guadgee said, were on her
back.
Well, that can not be. I said, I never did bathe in the shade of Minggah; for going as you
always do with the house=girls, you are bound to be kept from such sacriledge; they would never
dare such desecration.'
'Which is their Minggah? Is it a big Coolabah between the Bend and the garden?'
'Yes.'
'Then I did bathere there the last time I went there. I was up too
late to go with the Black-but-Comelys, and as the sun was shinning
I went further into a round poing and bathed in the shade. And the
bee bites must be those horribly irritating pimples i have across
my back.' 
The cause of illness settled to her satisfaction, Bootha
asked how to cure it. The patient was drinking nothing hot nor heating
but as much as cold water she liked, especially a long drink before
going to bed. He had selected a pure white lily, accidentally, instead of a poppy
that grows in the desert.

Max made sure that the mirror was securely placed onto one of the
tent-hooks. He would have preferred to break the mirror, but instead
placed it securely under a garishly painted Moorish chest. In the times when even the most educated considered magic
as real, one wizard was reported to have cast his own horoscope, and to have found out that he
was to die by a stone falling on him. He made an enchanted casket, which he considered to be
invunerable, because like everyone, he was desperate to cling to life.
 Mr. Seward sent a despatch to Mr. Adams that they are quite satisfied
that their cause was justified given their own resources and ability
to maintain this cause.

He further added that they did not wish any power to come to their aid in this regard. Their only
desire was to sustain the admitted rights and that there should not be any external interference.

Surprisingly Earl Russellhad the opinion that we had a slow pace in offence from France than from
England.He was, therefore, dissatisfied with in this respect.

According to him we should not feel so. The reason behind this is the same why we should feel the
other way also. He thinks that due to the reason that our inheritance of Anglo-Sexon genius,
speaking the same English language etc., we are more patient with England than with France.
 Only within the last few years,
most of this class, whose massive amounts of wealth and free time might seem to constitute them
the unusual patrons of the arts, rarely or never visited even the city, but for years remained
frozen in the place of the people who were here before them, rooted in the soil like an old tree.
"His greatest treasures were his guns, dogs, and horses." He spent most of his free time hunting,
shooting, and other sports which became a big part of his life.
 

There was a cup of chocolate and the morning paper in the tray, the same thing every morning. Then
the lady. Derlin courageously stood up, slipped her little bare feet in leather sandals, wrapped
in a white cashmere coat, shivering and huddled in an armchair by the fire. She took a sip
of chocolate, and a little burned, she has to wait awhile. He left the cup, took the paper, unfolded
it, and quickly moved his gaze on the six columns of the first page.

 Basically, at the very bottom of the sixth column, were the following
lines: 
Yesterday afternoon at the opera was not a brilliant performance
of "Sigurd."

Society was well represented in it, the Duchess of Montaiglon beautiful, the beautiful Countess
of Verdinière Lardac, the marquise Muriel wonderful, lively Baroness -
To read the name of the Baroness was necessary to turn the page. Mme. Derlin not time, she was
thinking, thinking. The night before she had fun with Palmer to bring to their social leaders
in the house, and it so happened that the banker had been brought to its wonderful the Marquise.
And Mme. Derlin - that was twenty - was up a little to look in the mirror. He exchanged a smile
with a young blonde who was very pink and white.
"Ah, he thought, if I were a marquise who wrote this man might have
paid some attention to me, and my name might be there.

I wonder if it's fun to see your name on a document?

"

And in addressing the issue itself, turned the page and continued
reading: 
- Baroness Myrvoix animated, etc. We have to announce
the emergence of a new star that has suddenly exploded in the constellation
of Paris.

The house was in ecstasy over a strange and disturbing ah blonde,
whose dark eyes of steel, and whose shoulders - the shoulders!

The shoulders were the evening event. From all sides was heard asked,
"Who is she?"

"Who is she?" "Who are those divine men?" "Who?"

We know, and our readers, no doubt, will thank us for telling them the name of this wonderful
ideal. It is the lady. Derlin.

His name! She had read his name! She was astonished. His eyes clouded. All letters of the alphabet
began to dance wildly in the paper.

Then he calmed down, stopped and got his place. She was able to find
your name, and continue reading; 
It is the lady.

Derlin, the wife of one of the nicest and richest lawyers in Paris. The Prince of Nérins,
whose word is of such importance in the field, said last night to
everyone who would listen, "She's the most beautiful woman in Paris."

We are absolutely of the opinion.
A single paragraph, and that was it. It was enough, it was too!

Derlin Madame was seized with a feeling of indescribable confusion. It was a combination of
fear and pleasure, of joy and anguish, of satisfied vanity and modesty
wounded.

Her gown was a little open, folded it again with a kind of violence, and crossed over, with his feet,
suddenly drawn back to the couch.

She felt naked. It seemed that all Paris was there in his room, and that the prince was in front
of all Nérins Paris saying, "Look, look! She is the most beautiful
woman in Paris."

The Prince of Nérins! She knew the name, to read with great interest in the documents of all
articles, entitled "Parisian Life," "High Life", "Echoes Society",
etc, and all the pillars of society signed "Mousseline"

"Fanfreluche," Brimborion "," Véloutine "all accounts of marriages big, big ball, big trips
out, and sales of great charity.

The Prince's name frequently appeared in these articles, and it was always cited as the supreme
arbiter of elegance of Paris.
And it was he who had said - ah! - Definitely pleasure was stronger than fear. Still trembling with
emotion, madame. Derlin went and stood before a long mirror, a cheval glass old Jacob, who never
before had reflected good than middle-class women married to good lawyers. In that mirror,
looked at, examined, studied, along with curiosity and enthusiasm. Of course, she knew she was
pretty, but oh, the power of print!

She was absolutely delightful. It was not the lady. Derlin - she was the most beautiful woman
in Paris! Her feet, her little feet - their nudity and not troubled her - left the field. She
gently lifted into the sky, into the clouds, and was turned into a goddess.
But suddenly a hold of her anxiety. "Edward, what Edward say?" Edward was her husband.
 

n 1872 he was awarded two patents for improvement in water wheels, but had never built wheels
with that pattern. After filling and patents granted for its new turbine improved Norma, who was
satisfied to perfection, and often said: "I can improve my record more door turbine because
it is so close to perfection as can be done" and was fully convinced,
last year I was experimenting with a cylinder of the door of the turbine,
and the patent was issued October 21, 1890.

He had previously made a 24-inch wheel, which was tested August 14, 1890, proof of Holyoke canal,
and gave fair results, and at the time of his death was to have made a new turbine runner cylinder
the door, we've completed and tested. His idea was that the manufacture and sale of the turbines
and the recording of the cylinder of the door. His inventive powers are not limited to water
wheels, for the February 23, 1886, was granted patents for automatic steam engine, the governor
and the lubrication device. We also remember in 1873 or 1874, when his mind was occupied with
his "standard turbine, which was hampered by a device that is currently used in the locomotive
of the present building (which can not be said), but when the delimitation water wheel, the
two in conflict, and by his invitation that he wrote to a prominent builder of locomotives and examine
the drawings, which he had not finished, and sold himself. This is only a weak memory, but I
remember when says: "Well, that's out of my mind now, and I can devote
to the completion of my new album.

"- American Miller.  * * * * *
ALTERNATE CURRENT capacitors.
In a recent meeting of the Physical Society of London, Mr. Swinburne James read a paper on the
current alternatives capacitors. It is said, is generally assumed that there is no difficulty
in making high pressure condensers commercial alternating currents. The first difficulty is the
isolation, the dielectric must be very thin, otherwise the volume of the capacitor is too large.
Some dielectric of 0.2 mm. thickness can be made to foot up to 8,000
volts when small parts, but the capacitors to complete a much larger
margin should be allowed.

Another difficulty arises from the absorption, and every time this happens, the apparent capacity
is greater than the calculated. Assuming that the fibers of the paper in a paper capacitor to
be embedded wires in the insulation oil, then if the capacitor is charged fibers have their ends
at different potentials, so that current flows to equalize and loses energy. This increases the
current capacity. A paper capacitor current jelly boiled took abnormally large and heated rapidly.
A high temperature was in the water and lost power and the current decreases gradually.  
When
a thin plate of mica is placed between two sheets of tin, which overheats and the potential
drop in the films of air separating the mica paper and is large enough to cause disruptive
discharge to the surface of mica . There seems to be a thin layer of minutes sparks under the
leaves, and there is a strong smell of ozone. In a dielectric is heated, there may be three types
of conduction, viz.

Metal, when a regular driver is embedded in an insulator, disturbing, and probably is the case
of mica, and the electrolyte, which may occur in the glass. In a transparent dielectric driving
should be electrolytic or disturbing, otherwise the vibrations of light would be drowned. dielectric
loss in a cable can be severe. Calculation of waste paper soaked in a hot gelatin capacitor,
the loss of a network of Deptford 7000 watts out.

Another effect observed in Deptford is an increase of pressure in the network.
 Each of these looks has been willingly debated;
the last having the cooperation of the late Dr. Bruce, the highest of everybody administration
onto the mural antiquities. And tunnel, even the very latest, possess caused findings which are
alleged via each of the rival theories.[289]
F. 5.--Quite maybe everybody are within quantity true. The "Vallum" as we already see it is evidently
meant for defence against a southern foe. But the spade has granted ample evidence that the
rampart has been amended, and that, within a lot continent at lowest,
it formerly faced northwards. I expected to see the day, and although I do not see it, must come
at last, when it is treated as a madman or an impostor who dares to
claim nobility or precedence, and can not display your family name
in the history of their country.

Even that can display, and can not write your own under it in the same or as beautiful characters,
must submit to the imputation of degeneracy, which are exempt from humble and obscure. "The good
thing about Penn, also placed ago in which Landor dressed his thoughts, when the Lord tells
Quaker Peterborough:" Of all the pride, however, and all the craziness, the coarsest is where a
man has no merit in itself is to a par with one that has it, and found that claim in any plea or
better title than that, though he has not, his grandfather had. I would not use violence or
coercion in any rational creature; but rather that such brutality in a human form must run
through the streets with no cure, I screamed like a little kid for the blacksmith in his oven,
and the horn of my barn soaking unthong next door. "Landor could write his name with his family
in beautiful characters, so not ashamed to relate stories of their ancestors. He was honored
with satisfaction that perpetuates the memory of two of these characters in the talks" Imaginary
"between King Henry IV. and Sir Arnold Savage, Oliver Cromwell and
Walter Noble.

 Clearly
irritated with my inadequacy, she asked with a tone of slight petulance, "Can't you think of anything?"
I shook my head in negation.
I said, "I can't, but could you not find out from them? You could ask Margery; she would tell
you what Max would like. Then you could sound him about her. It's done oft."
Brightening up, she said, "What a splendid idea! I'll go this very instant." The Queen was very
impulsive.
Looking excited and quite pleased with herself, she returned again
half an hour later. Her cheeks gave off the color of pink rose-leaves.
Breathlessly, she said, "About Max, it is all right." Quesor: The history of Henry VII written by Lord Bacon was published
in 1622.

W.B.: Mercury doesn't lose its power when used but should be strained through wash-leather when
oxydized.
Protosulph: Gilding would have been useless. We think that protosulphate would still require
blowing on the glass. The developing solution will keep. Stains can
be washed from the finger using cyanide of potassium, but it's a poison
so must be used with care. The fort
is still so outlying great that the lower division is occupied by a farmer's family; and in several
of the upper rooms are still lasting huge chimney-pieces of hoary limestone, of a extremely up to
date figure, the straight portions of which are decorated with a quatrefoil decoration carved
in a round, but there are no dates or armorial bearings: from the windows of the fortress four
others are noticeable, no one of them further than two miles from
each other; and an extremely big cromlech is inside a little yards
of the fort trench.

The following myth is connected of the fortress:--When the Danes were constructing the castle
(the Danes were the great builders, as Oliver Cromwell was the vast demolisher of all the aged
castles, abbeys, &c. in Ireland),--when the Danes were building the Fort of Ballyportree, they
composed workmen from all digs, and strained them to work night and day without stopping for
relax or food; and according as any of them fell down from fatigue, his body was thrown upon
the partition, which was built up above him! When {491} the fortress was completed, its residents
tyrannised over the entire nation, until the time arrived once the Danes were at last excluded from
Ireland. Ballyportree Castle held out to the final, but at duration it was occupied following
a brutal struggle, only three of the defence force being found lively, who proved to be a father
and his two sons; the furious conquerors were about to murder them too, when one of then projected
that their life should be spared, and a liberated way to their own nation given them, on circumstance
that they taught the Irishmen how to prepare the well-known ale from
the heather--that underground so keenly desirable by the Irish, and
so passionately protected by the Danes.

At first neither promises nor pressure had any outcome on the prisoners, but at extent the
senior fighter consented to inform the secret on situation that his two sons have to first be
put to demise before his eyes, alleging his dread, that when he returned to his own fatherland,
they might cause him to be set to death for revealing the secret. Though rather astonished
at his demand, the Irish chieftains straight away comply with it, and the young men were slain.
Then the old soldier exclaimed, "Fools! I saw that your pressure and your promises were starting
to manipulate my sons; for they were but boys, and might have yielded: but now the secret is secure,
your bullying or your promises have no consequence on me!" furious at their distress, the Irish
military hewed the harsh northman in pieces, and the popular secret is still mysterious.
 In order to be prepared for the
incoming accusations of a lack of common sense and a desire for attention,
especially because, for this viewpoint, Xenophanes, a male whose power
added much credit to his assertions, couldn't get away from the similar
censure from others.

 Sitting near the window thus saying, I looked outside
the open window into the clear sky. It was a splendid silent night with the May moon in all
her beauty was smiling above. The town lay far and wide below with all its numerous lights,--
while at a distance an interfering space seen as a quadrangular area (where highlighted in the
middle was a huge grand old church), and, there seen along with the
gardens are the cottages or mansions that covered the sides of the
hill. 
“Is it not that house,” after a short breath, “over
there with three gables, the one in which-in which the Dr. Lloyd resided—the
Abbot’s House?” 
I spoke suddenly, as if to let her know my
inner wish to shift the subject of speech.

My hostess paused her knitting, got up and bent to look forward.
"Yes. but what a wonderful night! How is it that the moon is able to merge many things together
in harmony unlike the sun, which shows only the contrast? That states old church tower, though dull
with all those thousand years on it, and with the rotten tiles of the roof which had given
away and the chimney-pots open in the goodness of yesterday,--now under the moonlight have
been put together as one undivided magical spell!"
As my hostess spoke thus, she got up from her chair, taking all her
work along, and went past from the window to the balcony.

Very often Mrs. Poyntz went low to accept her thoughts of expression to get back in her variation
of strict to the point, practical and ways that suit the present times; but she would do this
often,--always and whenever she did, gave me an impression of an intelligent including much of
confidence to not to give way to the thought that sentiments do have a place in this life, while
putting it in proper place, along with a mixed approach and making a difference with which
some titled class beauty permits the genius, at the same time checks the probable evidence
of an enchanting and penniless poet. For just some time her eyes gazed over the scenario with
sheer enthralled joy, then, as they fixed over on the Abbots' House, her face got back again
to that sadness which linked with her strong character, her fingers went back to knitting automatically,
and she spoke in her clean, hard and strong voice, " Could you guess why I take so much pains
to convince Mr. Vigors to find out Mrs. Ashleigh at that indicated place?"
"You helped us with your clear explanation of thoughts."
"A few thoughts of mine beside the main one; Persons who take the
responsibility of administering others, as I do, be it a rule of kingdom
or a hamlet, must take voluntary steps as per the government states
and stick to it.

 The law that abides best with the Hill is Respect for the appropriateness.

 I see it is if the two pictures
he was kind enough to send me, being a square stereographs [] T-square, located in the intersection
points towards the observer, and remove from his tail, and a angle if the market is the center
of radiation, and while its distance from the camera is only six feet of separation points
no less than three feet apart.
To push the argument to extremes to test its value is quite right, but this goes far beyond the
extreme, it can be allowed such an expression very Hibernian.
No object, however minute, can be clearly seen when brought closer to the eye than a point, because
it will be what is technically called the focus. It is true that this point varies in different
people, but the average distance is 10 inches healthy vision. Now, adopting MR. Merritt own
standard of 2 ½ inches between the eyes, it is clear that the focus is supposed to have been
selected correctly, the distance between cameras was just what might have been taken away double
extreme. There is no need to suggest what a person devoid of taste (category I, which are undoubtedly
included) could be in production by adopting the method radial monstrosities, such a one is
not likely to produce good results all.
I turn now to another charge me. It is true that I am unacquainted with the tenets of academic
perspective, but equally true that we familiar with their deeds, as must any one who has studied
the optical and geometrical science in general, and while I agree, set out proposals for a picture
with one eye, I by no means agree with the assumption that points to "loss" in both radial stereographs
taken precautions, "should be so far, that they could not flow in a stereoscope, "on the experiment,
by contrast, direct show me what reason suggests also that they flow into one such as complete
when viewed by both eyes.
 The researcher has applied pressure of upwards of 20,000 atmospheres
to metals that possess the property in question, and found that even
these enormous pressures produce very little change in density.

Solids read a maximum density, which cannot be modified by pressure. The only way to change the density
of a solid is to change the temperature. However, some solids can take an allotropic condition
of greater density. The researcher had previously showed that solids in allotropic state could
assume the volume of their container, which is analogous to the aggregation of matter. This raises
the possibility that both phenomena are the result of the same cause-- polymerization. The elasticity
of a body can be thought of as its response to pressure, when it reaches the critical pressure
where it begins to flow. For example, ice can be forced to flow at 0c. by applying enough pressure.
In this sense, brittle objects are ones which do not flow under pressure.

Hydrogen Amalgam

Hydrogen is a gas but it is a chemically a metal, and it can form alloys with solid metals. Hydrogen
can also form a compound with liquid mercury, and the resulting fluid can be thought of not
as an alloy but as an amalgam of hydrogen and mercury, or the "hydrogen amalgam." One of the
problems with mercury is its "sickening" and its "flouring" and loss. Engineers and scientists
have been searching for a solution to a problem for a long time now. The bottom tip of the facing plank reaches to a quarter of an inch under
the base of the drawer. My case is in an enclosure that is dimly lit, and paper that is left
to dry here and ensconced in a portfolio when it dries appears not to be impaired by the light
that falls on it. It was hinted that some of the dogs would even be killed and Sakalar
and Ivan were chastised for their insatiable greed which had caused
them to get into this predicament. 
Suddenly the old man, grinning
like the Cheshire cat, said, "See!"as he pointed southward. The nest can be spotted from a distance among surround grass, whose
blades are often interwoven with the nest to shield the bird from
harsh sunlight that is especially strong in the marsh.

The Rails
are omnivorous. During September and October, they swarm weeds and
wild oats. They feed on nutritious seeds, small snail shells, worms,
and larvae of insects which they extract from the mud. The Sora Rail,
with its thin, compressed body, reluctance to fly, and agility in
running and hiding among the grass, is similar to the more common
Virginia Rail. 

The Sora frequents parts of marshes where fresh water
springs rise through the morass. It is here that it usually builds
a nest, "one of which," says an observer, "we had the good fortune
to discover." The nest was built at the bottom of a tuft of grass
amid an almost impenetrable quagmire, and was composed of old, wet
grass and rushes. The eggs had been pushed out of the nest by a rising
tide during a violent northwest storm and lay scattered about the
drift weed. There are usually six to ten eggs. They are of a dirty
white or pale cream color and speckled with specks of red and pale
purple.

The Sora Rail flies in a straight line for a short distance
and suddenly dives into the water.

The rails have many predators,
and many nests are robbed of their eggs by weasels, snakes, blackbirds,
and Marsh Hawks - although the latter can't disturb them as easily,
as Marsh Hawks hunt from the skies and have a hard time discerning
Rails' nests from the grass below.