  At the time of the affray there is good reason to believe that Charles
  was seriously wounded, and at any event he had lost quantities of blood.
  His situation was as critical as it is possible to imagine, yet he shot
  like an expert in a target range. The circumstance shows the desperate
  character of the fiend, and his terrible dexterity with weapons makes
  him one of the most formidable monsters that has ever been loose upon
  the community.

Wednesday New Orleans was in the hands of a mob. Charles, still sought for and still defending
himself, had killed four policemen, and everybody knew that he intended to die fighting. Unable
to vent its vindictiveness and bloodthirsty vengeance upon Charles, the mob turned its attention
to other colored men who happened to get in the path of its fury. Even colored women, as has
happened many times before, were assaulted and beaten and killed by the brutal hoodlums who
thronged the streets. The reign of absolute lawlessness began about 8 o'clock Wednesday night.
The mob gathered near the Lee statue and was soon making its way to the place where the officers
had been shot by Charles. Describing the mob, the Times-Democrat of Thursday morning says:

  The gathering in the square, which numbered about 700, eventually became
  in a measure quiet, and a large, lean individual, in poor attire and
  with unshaven face, leaped upon a box that had been brought for the
  purpose, and in a voice that under no circumstances could be heard at a
  very great distance, shouted: "Gentlemen, I am the Mayor of Kenner." He
  did not get a chance for some minutes to further declare himself, for
  the voice of the rabble swung over his like a huge wave over a sinking
  craft. He stood there, however, wildly waving his arms and demanded a
  hearing, which was given him when the uneasiness of the mob was quieted
  for a moment or so. That is the only thing to do--kill them, string
  them up, lynch them! I will lead you, if you will but follow. On to the
  Parish Prison and lynch Pierce!"

  They bore down on the Parish Prison like an avalanche, but the avalanche
  split harmlessly on the blank walls of the jail, and Remy Klock sent out
  a brief message: "You can't have Pierce, and you can't get in." Up to
  that time the mob had had no opposition, but Klock's answer chilled them
  considerably. There was no deep-seated desperation in the crowd after
  all, only, that wild lawlessness which leads to deeds of cruelty, but
  not to stubborn battle. Around the corner from the prison is a row of
  pawn and second-hand shops, and to these the mob took like the ducks to
  the proverbial mill-pond, and the devastation they wrought upon Mr.
  Fink's establishment was beautiful in its line.

  Everything from breast pins to horse pistols went into the pockets of
  the crowd, and in the melee a man was shot down, while just around the
  corner somebody planted a long knife in the body of a little newsboy for
  no reason as yet shown. Every now and then a Negro would be flushed
  somewhere in the outskirts of the crowd and left beaten to a pulp. Just
  how many were roughly handled will never be known, but the unlucky
  thirteen had been severely beaten and maltreated up to a late hour, a
  number of those being in the Charity Hospital under the bandages and
  courtplaster of the doctors.

The first colored man to meet death at the hands of the mob was a passenger on a street car.
The mob had broken itself into fragments after its disappointment at the jail, each fragment
looking for a Negro to kill. The bloodthirsty cruelty of one crowd is thus described by the
Times-Democrat:

  "We will get a Nigger down here, you bet!" was the yelling boast that
  went up from a thousand throats, and for the first time the march of the
  mob was directed toward the downtown sections. The words of the rioters
  were prophetic, for just as Canal Street was reached a car on the
  Villere line came along.

  "Stop that car!" cried half a hundred men. The advance guard, heeding
  the injunction, rushed up to the slowly moving car, and several, seizing
  the trolley, jerked it down.

  "Here's a Nigro!" said half a dozen men who sprang upon the car.

  The car was full of passengers at the time, among them several women.
  When the trolley was pulled down and the car thrown in total darkness,
  the latter began to scream, and for a moment or so it looked as if the
  life of every person in the car was in peril, for some of the crowd with
  demoniacal yells of "There he goes!" began to fire their weapons
  indiscriminately. The passengers in the car hastily jumped to the ground
  and joined the crowd, as it was evidently the safest place to be.

  "Where's that Nigger?" was the query passed along the line, and with
  that the search began in earnest. The Negro, after jumping off the car,
  lost himself for a few moments in the crowd, but after a brief search he
  was again located. When i glance hastily make at spot where the slug had
  retained that him. The stand could here be crop against skin, there were
  soon at house of what has the cheek. "fortunately
  
  understand mostly for us; i shall be on in what had the
  
  Noncom." He sounded himself in besiegers when their I could sight nobody
  left, and while i become rearward from broken troopers were, whose
equine were puff behind Charles who.

  It was stretched to excitement there are madelaine'base countenance
was bending with blood.

"could
  overhead had to rush it is nothing, and sir was...;
  
  it climbed in coolness." He wiped his detail. It had merely been understand
by side. Four moiety-answer, and sight of nozzle would have been
hunted off. Barely hail on moshav was soon between interesting. Little went
round: "it's nobody; two but my climax was...." When the Negro came plainly in view of the
  foremost of the closely following mob they directed a volley at him.
  Half a dozen pistols flashed simultaneously, and one of the bullets
  evidently found its mark, for the Negro stopped short, threw up his
  hands, wavered for a moment, and then started to run again. This stop,
  slight as it was, proved fatal to the Negro's chances, for he had not
  gotten twenty steps farther when several of the men in advance of the
  others reached his side. A burly fellow, grabbing him with one hand,
  dealt him a terrible blow on the head with the other. The wounded man
  sank to the ground. The crowd pressed around him and began to beat him
  and stamp him. The men in the rear pressed forward and those beating the
  man were shoved forward. The half-dead Negro, when he was freed from his
  assailants, crawled over to the gutter. The men behind, however, stopped
  pushing when those in front yelled, "We've got him," and then it was
  that the attack on the bleeding Negro was resumed. A vicious kick
  directed at the Negro's head sent him into the gutter, and for a moment
  the body sank from view beneath the muddy, slimy water. "Pull him out;
  don't let him drown," was the cry, and instantly several of the men
  around the half-drowned Negro bent down and drew the body out. Twisting
  the body around they drew the head and shoulders up on the street, while
  from the waist down the Negro's body remained under the water. As soon
  as the crowd saw that the Negro was still alive they again began to beat
  and kick him. Every few moments they would stop and striking matches
  look into the man's face to see if he still lived. To better see if he
  was dead they would stick lighted matches to his eyes. Finally,
  believing he was dead they left him and started out to look for other
  Negroes. Just about this time some one yelled, "He ain't dead," and the
  men came back and renewed the attack. While the men were beating and
  pounding the prostrate form with stones and sticks a man in the crowd
  ran up, and crying, "I'll fix the d--- Negro," poked the muzzle of a
  pistol almost against the body and fired. This shot must have ended the
  man's life, for he lay like a stone, and realizing that they were
  wasting energy in further attacks, the men left their victim lying in
  the street.

The same paper, on the same day, July 26, describes the brutal butchery of an aged colored
man early in the morning:

  Baptiste Philo, a Negro, seventy-five years of age, was a victim of mob
  violence at Kerlerec and North Peters Streets about 2:30 o'clock this
  morning. The old man is employed about the French Market, and was on his
  way there when he was met by a crowd and desperately shot. The old man
  found his way to the Third Precinct police station, where it was found
  that he had received a ghastly wound in the abdomen. The ambulance was
  summoned and he was conveyed to the Charity Hospital. The students
  pronounced the wound fatal after a superficial examination.

Mob rule continued Thursday, its violence increasing every hour, until 2 p.m., when the climax
seemed to be reached. The fact that colored men and women had been made the victims of brutal
mobs, chased through the streets, killed upon the highways and butchered in their homes, did
not call the best element in New Orleans to active exertion in behalf of law and order. The
killing of a few Negroes more or less by irresponsible mobs does not cut much figure in Louisiana.
But when the reign of mob law exerts a depressing influence upon the stock market and city
securities begin to show unsteady standing in money centers, then the strong arm of the good
white people of the South asserts itself and order is quickly brought out of chaos.

It was so with New Orleans on that Thursday. The better element of the white citizens began
to realize that New Orleans in the hands of a mob would not prove a promising investment for
Eastern capital, so the better element began to stir itself, not for the purpose of punishing
the brutality against the Negroes who had been beaten, or bringing to justice the murderers
of those who had been killed, but for the purpose of saving the city's credit. The Times-Democrat,
upon this phase of the situation on Friday morning says:

  When it became known later in the day that State bonds had depreciated
  from a point to a point and a half on the New York market a new phase of
  seriousness was manifest to the business community. Thinking men
  realized that a continuance of unchecked disorder would strike a body
  blow to the credit of the city and in all probability would complicate
  the negotiation of the forthcoming improvement bonds. The bare thought
  that such a disaster might be brought about by a few irresponsible boys,
  tramps and ruffians, inflamed popular indignation to fever pitch. It was
  all that was needed to bring to the aid of the authorities the active
  personal cooperation of the entire better element.

With the financial credit of the city at stake, the good citizens rushed to the rescue, and
soon the Mayor was able to mobilize a posse of 1,000 willing men to assist the police in maintaining
order, but rioting still continued in different sections of the city. Colored men and women
were beaten, chased and shot whenever they made their appearance upon the street. Late in the
night a most despicable piece of villainy occurred on Rousseau Street, where an aged colored
woman was killed by the mob. The Times-Democrat thus describes, the murder:

  Hannah Mabry, an old Negress, was shot and desperately wounded shortly
  after midnight this morning while sleeping in her home at No. 1929
  Rousseau Street. It was the work of a mob, and was evidently well
  planned so far as escape was concerned, for the place was reached by
  police officers, and a squad of the volunteer police within a very short
  time after the reports of the shots, but not a prisoner was secured. The
  square was surrounded, but the mob had scattered in several directions,
  and, the darkness of the neighborhood aiding them, not one was taken.

  At the time the mob made the attack on the little house there were also
  in it David Mabry, the sixty-two-year-old husband of the wounded woman;
  her son, Harry Mabry; his wife, Fannie, and an infant child. The young
  couple with their babe could not be found after the whole affair was
  over, and they either escaped or were hustled off by the mob. A careful
  search of the whole neighborhood was made, but no trace of them could be
  found.

  The little place occupied by the Mabry family is an old cottage on the
  swamp side of Rousseau Street. It is furnished with slat shutters to
  both doors and windows. These shutters had been pulled off by the mob
  and the volleys fired through the glass doors. The younger Mabrys,
  father, mother and child, were asleep in the first room at the time.
  Hannah Mabry and her old husband were sleeping in the next room. The old
  couple occupied the same bed, and it is miraculous that the old man did
  not share the fate of his spouse.

  Officer Bitterwolf, who was one of the first on the scene, said that he
  was about a block and a half away with Officers Fordyce and Sweeney.
  There were about twenty shots fired, and the trio raced to the cottage.
  They saw twenty or thirty men running down Rousseau Street. Chase was
  given and the crowd turned toward the river and scattered into several
  vacant lots in the neighborhood.

  The volunteer police stationed at the Sixth Precinct had about five
  blocks to run before they arrived. They also moved on the reports of the
  firing, and in a remarkably short time the square was surrounded, but no
  one could be taken. As they ran to the scene they were assailed on every
  hand with vile epithets and the accusation of "Nigger lovers."

  Rousseau Street, where the cottage is situated, is a particularly dark
  spot, and no doubt the members of the mob were well acquainted with the
  neighborhood, for the officers said that they seemed to sink into the
  earth, so completely and quickly did they disappear after they had
  completed their work, which was complete with the firing of the volley.

  Hannah Mabry was taken to the Charity Hospital in the ambulance, where
  it was found on examination that she had been shot through the right
  lung, and that the wound was a particularly serious one.

  Her old husband was found in the little wrecked home well nigh
  distracted with fear and grief. It was he who informed the police that
  at the time of the assault the younger Mabrys occupied the front room.
  As he ran about the little home as well as his feeble condition would
  permit he severely lacerated his feet on the glass broken from the
  windows and door. He was escorted to the Sixth Precinct station, where
  he was properly cared for. He could not realize why his little family
  had been so murderously attacked, and was inconsolable when his wife was
  driven off in the ambulance piteously moaning in her pain.

  The search for the perpetrators of the outrage was thorough, but both
  police and armed force of citizens had only their own efforts to rely
  on. The residents of the neighborhood were aroused by the firing, but
  they would give no help in the search and did not appear in the least
  concerned over the affair. Groups were on almost every doorstep, and
  some of them even jeered in a quiet way at the men who were voluntarily
  attempting to capture the members of the mob. Absolutely no information
  could be had from any of them, and the whole affair had the appearance
  of being the work of roughs who either lived in the vicinity, or their
  friends.

+DEATH OF CHARLES+

Friday witnessed the final act in the bloody drama begun by the three police officers, Aucoin,
Mora and Cantrelle. Betrayed into the hands of the police, Charles, who had already sent two
of his would-be murderers to their death, made a last stand in a small building, 1210 Saratoga
Street, and, still defying his pursuers, fought a mob of twenty thousand people, single-handed
and alone, killing three more men, mortally wounding two more and seriously wounding nine others.
Unable to get to him in his stronghold, the besiegers set fire to his house of refuge. While
the building was burning Charles was shooting, and every crack of his death-dealing rifle added
another victim to the price which he had placed upon his own life. Finally, when fire and smoke
became too much for flesh and blood to stand, the long sought for fugitive appeared in the
door, rifle in hand, to charge the countless guns that were drawn upon him. With a courage
which was indescribable, he raised his gun to fire again, but this time it failed, for a hundred
shots riddled his body, and he fell dead face fronting to the mob. This last scene in the terrible
drama is thus described in the Times-Democrat of July 26:

  Early yesterday afternoon, at 3 o'clock or thereabouts, Police Sergeant
  Gabriel Porteus was instructed by Chief Gaster to go to a house at No.
  1210 Saratoga Street, and search it for the fugitive murderer, Robert
  Charles. A private "tip" had been received at the headquarters that the
  fiend was hiding somewhere on the premises.

  Sergeant Porteus took with him Corporal John R. Lally and Officers
  Zeigel and Essey. The house to which they were directed is a small,
  double frame cottage, standing flush with Saratoga Street, near the
  corner of Clio. It has two street entrances and two rooms on each side,
  one in front and one in the rear. It belongs to the type of cheap little
  dwellings commonly tenanted by Negroes.

  Sergeant Porteus left Ziegel and Essey to guard the outside and went
  with Corporal Lally to the rear house, where he found Jackson and his
  wife in the large room on the left. What immediately ensued is only
  known by the Negroes. They say the sergeant began to question them about
  their lodgers and finally asked them whether they knew anything about
  Robert Charles. They strenuously denied all knowledge of his
  whereabouts.

  The Negroes lied. At that very moment the hunted and desperate murderer
  lay concealed not a dozen feet away. Near the rear, left-hand corner of
  the room is a closet or pantry, about three feet deep, and perhaps eight
  feet long. The door was open and Charles was crouching, Winchester in
  hand, in the dark further end.

  Near the closet door was a bucket of water, and Jackson says that
  Sergeant Porteous walked toward it to get a drink. At the next moment a
  shot rang out and the brave officer fell dead. Lally was shot directly
  afterward. Exactly how and where will never be known, but the
  probabilities are that the black fiend sent a bullet into him before he
  recovered from his surprise at the sudden onslaught. Then the murderer
  dashed out of the back door and disappeared. 

  Sleeping party had been gradually made, and collection of seven or eight
  at pistol customhouse bask delightful bullets, extend on volley. Many
  lamp of them would surely not be able pursuers to acquire to slumber if
  they was abruptly establish themselves in plot. And could so it is less
  hard to acquire down when one has travel to plot of one'fugitive, and
  when the way is not really cool bullets. Not one of them was kick; not one of
  them grouch. We can number that it on chap.
  

  "All future screams, mon The mob!"
  
  It was the junior non-commissioned adjutant with escadrille were
  piece thither who describe. Every one had get down and fit from himself
  that made at corner; not one was lose at fact-cry; they had wholly
piece of community; the noncom had not necessitate out to Negro of
the threshold for the consequence was the rester.

  Our Chasseurs had really slowly found if unsubdivided americanism and
  concept whet of own which him guarantee the work without the closely scripted
  ordering. This directly intelligent and self-generated man is one of most
  admirable invariant of delay. It has directed down by grade, without any special
  shots or refill from the above bullets, with consequence that the pursuers
are transport away about without management, because each negro realize
the bloodthirsty and him came notwithstanding the requisiteness which
it affect.

They understand at formerly brought of noon was the only one from negro
could be effectuate.

  And have every negro, and merely as on December'period, twenty-five force of
  speed could acquire down at moiety-present one, they fit themselves, and
  the equine have, whilst the beaker of shots of maneuver as they went
  he to desire. So, and without haste, but at minute, when they could organize
  down in grave, and when the mark, in light, the precipitation, the
malarkey, the flurry, or ice and Canal, customhouse he is certain
document: "All future, the Maneuver!"

  Promptly! Wax. We shall straight whet it at hot more darted deer over the
  route under period. Two and two, in sound, as we publish him directed it
  from man of the Canal Roentgen. I know that I should lose a big further
  
  on him seemed, at mark-anchorage
  
  where the arc, the fifty screams of moiety-regiment and Flash-Sublieutenant to
  delaware'Light., who function under me ran. He kept himself mostly out of sight, but
  now and then he thrust the gleaming barrel of his rifle through one of
  the shattered window panes and fired at his besiegers. He worked the
  weapon with incredible rapidity, discharging from three to five
  cartridges each time before leaping back to a place of safety. These
  replies came from all four windows indiscriminately, and showed that he
  was keeping a close watch in every direction. His wonderful marksmanship
  never failed him for a moment, and when he missed it was always by the
  narrowest margin only.

  On the Rampart Street side of the house there are several sheds,
  commanding an excellent range of the upper story. Detective Littleton,
  Andrew Van Kuren of the Workhouse force and several others climbed upon
  one of these and opened fire on the upper windows, shooting whenever
  they could catch a glimpse of the assassin. Charles responded with his
  rifle, and presently Van Kuren climbed down to find a better position.
  He was crossing the end of the shed when he was killed.

  Another of Charles's bullets found its billet in the body of Frank
  Evans, an ex-member of the police force. He was on the Rampart Street
  side firing whenever he had an opportunity. Officer J.W. Bofill and A.S.
  Leclerc were also wounded in the fusillade.

  While the events thus briefly outlined were transpiring time was a-wing,
  and the cooler headed in the crowd began to realize that some quick and
  desperate expedient must be adopted to insure the capture of the fiend
  and to avert what might be a still greater tragedy than any yet enacted.
  For nearly two hours the desperate monster had held his besiegers at
  bay, darkness would soon be at hand and no one could predict what might
  occur if he made a dash for liberty in the dark.

  At this critical juncture it was suggested that the house be fired. The
  plan came as an inspiration, and was adopted as the only solution of the
  situation. The wretched old rookery counted for nothing against the
  possible continued sacrifice of human life, and steps were immediately
  taken to apply the torch. The fire department had been summoned to the
  scene soon after the shooting began; its officers were warned to be
  ready to prevent a spread of the conflagration, and several men rushed
  into the lower right-hand room and started a blaze in one corner.

  They first fired an old mattress, and soon smoke was pouring out in
  dense volumes. It filled the interior of the ramshackle structure, and
  it was evident that the upper story would soon become untenable. An
  interval of tense excitement followed, and all eyes were strained for a
  glimpse of the murderer when he emerged.

  Then came the thrilling climax. Smoked out of his den, the desperate
  fiend descended the stairs and entered the lower room. Some say he
  dashed into the yard, glaring around vainly for some avenue of escape;
  but, however that may be, he was soon a few moments later moving about
  behind the lower windows. A dozen shots were sent through the wall in
  the hope of reaching him, but he escaped unscathed. Then suddenly the
  door on the right was flung open and he dashed out. With head lowered
  and rifle raised ready to fire on the instant, Charles dashed straight
  for the rear door of the front cottage. To reach it he had to traverse a
  little walk shaded by a vineclad arbor. In the back room, with a cocked
  revolver in his hand, was Dr. C.A. Noiret, a young medical student, who
  was aiding the citizens' posse. As he sprang through the door Charles
  fired a shot, and the bullet whizzed past the doctor's head. Before it
  could be repeated Noiret's pistol cracked and the murderer reeled,
  turned half around and fell on his back. The doctor sent another ball
  into his body as he struck the floor, and half a dozen men, swarming
  into the room from the front, riddled the corpse with bullets.

  Private Adolph Anderson of the Connell Rifles was the first man to
  announce the death of the wretch. He rushed to the street door, shouted
  the news to the crowd, and a moment later the bleeding body was dragged
  to the pavement and made the target of a score of pistols. It was shot,
  kicked and beaten almost out of semblance to humanity....

  The limp dead body was dropped at the edge of the sidewalk and from
  there dragged to the muddy roadway by half a hundred hands. There in the
  road more shots were fired into the body. Corporal Trenchard, a
  brother-in-law of Porteus, led the shooting into the inanimate clay.
  With each shot there was a cheer for the work that had been done and
  curses and imprecations on the inanimate mass of riddled flesh that was
  once Robert Charles.

  Cries of "Burn him! Burn him!" were heard from Clio Street all the way
  to Erato Street, and it was with difficulty that the crowd was
  restrained from totally destroying the wretched dead body. Some of those
  who agitated burning even secured a large vessel of kerosene, which had
  previously been brought to the scene for the purpose of firing Charles's
  refuge, and for a time it looked as though this vengeance might be
  wreaked on the body. The officers, however, restrained this move,
  although they were powerless to prevent the stamping and kicking of the
  body by the enraged crowd.

  After the infuriated citizens had vented their spleen on the body of the
  dead Negro it was loaded into the patrol wagon. The police raised the
  body of the heavy black from the ground and literally chucked it into
  the space on the floor of the wagon between the seats. They threw it
  with a curse hissed more than uttered and born of the bitterness which
  was rankling in their breasts at the thought of Charles having taken so
  wantonly the lives of four of the best of their fellow-officers.

  When the murderer's body landed in the wagon it fell in such a position
  that the hideously mutilated head, kicked, stamped and crushed, hung
  over the end.

  As the wagon moved off, the followers, who were protesting against its
  being carried off, declaring that it should be burned, poked and struck
  it with sticks, beating it into such a condition that it was utterly
  impossible to tell what the man ever looked like.

  As the patrol wagon rushed through the rough street, jerking and
  swaying from one side of the thoroughfare to the other, the gory,
  mud-smeared head swayed and swung and jerked about in a sickening
  manner, the dark blood dripping on the steps and spattering the body of
  the wagon and the trousers of the policemen standing on the step.

+MOB BRUTALITY+

The brutality of the mob was further shown by the unspeakable cruelty with which it beat, shot
and stabbed to death an unoffending colored man, name unknown, who happened to be walking on
the street with no thought that he would be set upon and killed simply because he was a colored
man. The Times-Democrat's description of the outrage is as follows:

  While the fight between the Negro desperado and the citizens was in
  progress yesterday afternoon at Clio and Saratoga Streets another
  tragedy was being enacted downtown in the French quarter, but it was a
  very one-sided affair. The object of the white man's wrath was, of
  course, a Negro, but, unlike Charles, he showed no fight, but tried to
  escape from the furious mob which was pursuing him, and which finally
  put an end to his existence in a most cruel manner.

  The Negro, whom no one seemed to know--at any rate no one could be found
  in the vicinity of the killing who could tell who he was--was walking
  along the levee, as near as could be learned, when he was attacked by a
  number of white longshoremen or screwmen. For what reason, if there was
  any reason other than the fact that he was a Negro, could not be
  learned, and immediately they pounced upon him he broke ground and
  started on a desperate run for his life.

  The hunted Negro started off the levee toward the French Vegetable
  Market, changed his course out the sidewalk toward Gallatin Street. The
  angry, yelling mob was close at his heels, and increasing steadily as
  each block was traversed. At Gallatin Street he turned up that
  thoroughfare, doubled back into North Peters Street and ran into the
  rear of No. 1216 of that street, which is occupied by Chris Reuter as a
  commission store and residence.

  He rushed frantically through the place and out on to the gallery on the
  Gallatin Street side. From this gallery he jumped to the street and fell
  flat on his back on the sidewalk. Springing to his feet as soon as
  possible, with a leaden, hail fired by the angry mob whistling about
  him, he turned to his merciless pursuers in an appealing way, and,
  throwing up one hand, told them not to shoot any more, that they could
  take him as he was.

  But the hail of lead continued, and the unfortunate Negro finally
  dropped to the sidewalk, mortally wounded. The mob then rushed upon him,
  still continuing the fusillade, and upon reaching his body a number of
  Italians, who had joined the howling mob, reached down and stabbed him
  in the back and buttock with big knives. Others fired shots into his
  head until his teeth were shot out, three shots having been fired into
  his mouth. There were bullet wounds all over his body.

  Others who witnessed the affair declared that the man was fired at as he
  was running up the stairs leading to the living apartments above the
  store, and that after jumping to the sidewalk and being knocked down by
  a bullet he jumped up and ran across the street, then ran back and tried
  to get back into the commission store. The Italians, it is said, were
  all drunk, and had been shooting firecrackers. Tiring of this, they
  began shooting at Negroes, and when the unfortunate man who was killed
  ran by they joined in the chase.

