Of course it does not become the present writer, who has partaken of the best entertainment
which his friends could supply, to make fun of their (somewhat ostentatious, as it must be
confessed) hospitality. If they gave a dinner beyond their means, it is no business of mine.
I hate a man who goes and eats a friend's meat, and then blabs the secrets of the mahogany.
Such a man deserves never to be asked to dinner again; and though at the close of a London
season that seems no great loss, and you sicken of a whitebait as you would of a whale--yet
we must always remember that there's another season coming, and hold our tongues for the present.

As for describing, then, the mere victuals on Timmins's table, that would be absurd. Everybody--(I
mean of the genteel world of course, of which I make no doubt the reader is a polite ornament)--Everybody
has the same everything in London. You see the same coats, the same dinners, the same boiled
fowls and mutton, the same cutlets, fish, and cucumbers, the same lumps of Wenham Lake ice,
&c. The waiters with white neck-cloths are as like each other everywhere as the peas which
they hand round with the ducks of the second course. Can't any one invent anything new?

The only difference between Timmins's dinner and his neighbor's was, that he had hired, as
we have said, the greater part of the plate, and that his cowardly conscience magnified faults
and disasters of which no one else probably took heed.

But Rosa thought, from the supercilious air with which Mrs. Topham Sawyer was eying the plate
and other arrangements, that she was remarking the difference of the ciphers on the forks and
spoons--which had, in fact, been borrowed from every one of Fitzroy's friends--(I know, for
instance, that he had my six, among others, and only returned five, along with a battered old
black-pronged plated abomination, which I have no doubt belongs to Mrs. Gashleigh, whom I hereby
request to send back mine in exchange)--their guilty consciences, I say, made them fancy that
every one was spying out their domestic deficiencies: whereas, it is probable that nobody present
thought of their failings at all. People never do: they never see holes in their neighbors'
coats--they are too indolent, simple, and charitable.

Some things, however, one could not help remarking: for instance, though Fitz is my closest
friend, yet could I avoid seeing and being amused by his perplexity and his dismal efforts
to be facetious? His eye wandered all round the little room with quick uneasy glances, very
different from those frank and jovial looks with which he is accustomed to welcome you to a
leg of mutton; and Rosa, from the other end of the table, and over the flowers, entree dishes,
and wine-coolers, telegraphed him with signals of corresponding alarm. Poor devils! why did
they ever go beyond that leg of mutton?

Funnyman was not brilliant in conversation, scarcely opening his mouth, except for the purposes
of feasting. The fact is, our friend Tom Dawson was at table, who knew all his stories, and
in his presence the greatest wag is always silent and uneasy.

Fitz has a very pretty wit of his own, and a good reputation on circuit; but he is timid before
great people. And indeed the presence of that awful Lady Bungay on his right hand was enough
to damp him. She was in court mourning (for the late Prince of Schlippenschloppen). She had
on a large black funereal turban and appurtenances, and a vast breastplate of twinkling, twiddling
black bugles. No wonder a man could not be gay in talking to HER.

Mrs. Rowdy and Mrs. Topham Sawyer love each other as women do who have the same receiving nights,
and ask the same society; they were only separated by Ranville Ranville, who tries to be well
with both and they talked at each other across him.

