From that time, until the commencement of work upon the batteries and trenches, the engineer
company and its officers were engaged in reconnoitring the ground between the picket line of
our army and the fortifications of the city. My reports were made each night to the Chief Engineer.
The night of the 15th, he pointed out to me, on a map of the city and its fortifications, the
general location in which it was desired to place the army gun battery, on the southern prolongation
of the principal street of the city, and within about six hundred yards of its fortifications.
He directed me, with the engineer company, to closely examine that ground. I was informed by
him, at the same time, that Captain R. E. Lee, of the engineer corps, had discovered a favorable
position for a battery, of six heavy naval guns, on the point of a commanding sand ridge, about
nine hundred yards from the western front of the city; but no final decision would be made
in regard to the naval battery until the army battery could be definitely located. He said
General Scott was getting impatient at the delay; and I was directed to find, as soon as possible,
a position that would satisfy the conditions prescribed, by the Chief Engineer, for an army
battery.

I explained those conditions to McClellan and to Foster; and informed them that I would assign
one-third of the company to each of them as an escort--take one-third myself--and we would
all three start, at daylight next morning, in search of a location for the required battery.
It was necessary that we should be extremely careful not to get to fighting each other in the
dense chaparral.

We found a location that complied with the conditions. In reporting this fact to the Chief
Engineer, I added: "The communication with the battery will be very difficult--will require
a great deal of work--and will be dangerous". He ordered me to take the engineer company to
the selected ground, next morning, and lay out the battery; and said he would direct Lieutenant
G. T. Beauregard, who had supervised the construction of the field fortifications at Tampico,
to assist in the work.

At 2 P. M. that day the battery and magazine had been traced out, all necessary profiles carefully
adjusted; and, the whole completed, ready to commence throwing up the works. We had not been
discovered by the Mexicans--though we could plainly see their sentinels on the walls; and occasionally
hear words of command. After allowing the company to rest for a couple of hours we started
to return to camp.

In going forward we had the Mexicans before us; and by exercising great care, at certain places,
could avoid being seen. When our backs were turned to Vera Cruz I felt confident that we would
soon be discovered and fired upon. I had cautioned the men to be as careful as possible; but,
in spite of their best efforts, we were seen, and a heavy fire of artillery was opened upon
us. The order to move at double-quick was immediately given. The company was conducted about
three hundred yards, to a cut in a low sand ridge, that had been formed by a road crossing
that ridge. All got safely into the cut. The Mexican artillery fire, aimed at us, was continued
for about twenty minutes. We had then before us an open level plain for five hundred yards.
Soon after the fire upon us had ceased, I ordered the men to scatter and run rapidly across
the plain until they reached a designated place of shelter behind high sand hills. Beauregard
and I brought up the rear in this movement. The Mexicans re-opened their guns upon us whilst
we were crossing the plain and continued to fire for some time after we reached the shelter
above referred to.

When I reported the result of that day's work to the Chief Engineer, I urged him to permit
a further examination to be made, for a location of the army gun battery, before attempting
to construct the one we had just laid out.

He consented, and we made further reconnaissance the next day. In the meantime the pickets
of Worth's division had been considerably advanced. On returning from an examination at the
extreme front that day I came across a detachment of the Fifth Infantry not far from the Cemetery.
Whilst explaining the object of my search to a group of four or five young officers, a person
whom I took to be a veteran sergeant, said to me that he knew a good position for a battery,
only a few hundred yards from where we then were. I asked him to describe it to me.

From the description he gave I thought the ground referred to would be a favourable site; and
asked him to tell me definitely how to reach it. He offered to guide me to the place. On getting
to the position I found that the conformation of the ground constituted almost a natural parapet
for a six gun battery--requiring but little work to complete it for use. It afforded immediate
shelter for men and guns.

It was not on the prolongation of the main street of the city, and it was farther from the
enemy's works than the site where a battery had already been laid out. But the communications
with the proposed new location were shorter, and could easily be made much safer--in every
way better than was possible in the former case. I thanked my guide for pointing out the position;
and told him I thought it would be adopted by the Chief Engineer.

After our return to the group of young officers, my "guide" was soon called away; and, I then
asked one of them the name of that "fine old Sergeant" who had pointed out such a good location
for the battery. To my amazement he replied: "That was Major Scott, the commander of our regiment".

The Major was enveloped in an ordinary soldier's overcoat and wore an old, common slouched
hat. I had mistaken the "famous Martin Scott" for a "fine old Sergeant" of the line.

On my return to camp I reported all the facts to the Chief Engineer. The position first selected
and laid out, for the army gun battery, was abandoned; and the location pointed out by Major
Martin Scott was adopted.

The work of throwing up batteries, digging trenches, and making covered communications with
them, was commenced on the night of the 18th by large working parties detailed from the line.
After that time, the officers of the engineer company, including myself, were placed on general
engineer service--supervising the construction of the siege works. All the engineer officers
then with the army, except the Chief, were in regular turn detailed for that duty; each having
some of the men of the engineer company to assist him.

After the work upon the army gun battery, the mortar batteries and the trenches had been fairly
commenced, I was transferred to the naval battery and took my regular turn, with Captain R.
E. Lee, and Lieutenant Z. B. Tower, in superintending its construction. I was in charge of
that work the day it opened its guns upon the fortifications of the city, having relieved Captain
Lee that morning. Seeing him still in the battery, about the time the firing commenced, I asked
him if he intended to continue in control; adding, "If so, I report to you for instructions
and orders". He replied: "No. I am not in charge. I have remained only to see my brother, Lieutenant
Sydney Smith Lee of the Navy, who is with one of the heavy guns. My tour of service is over.
You are in control; and, if I can be of any service to you whilst I remain here, please let
me know".

There had previously been a difference of opinion between Captain Lee and myself in regard
to the dimensions that should be given to the embrasures. The Chief Engineer decided in favor
of Captain Lee, and the embrasures were changed and made to conform to his views. In a very
short time after the firing began one of the embrasures became so badly choked that it could
not be used until the debris could be removed. Hastily renewing the blindage of brush-wood
that had been used to conceal the work from view of the enemy during the construction, the
detail of engineer soldiers then on duty, in the battery, cleared the embrasure of the obstructions,
removed the blindage, and the gun resumed its fire. Just after that incident, I asked Captain
Lee what he now thought in regard to the proper dimensions for the embrasures. He replied:
"They must be made greater when the battery is repaired to-night."

The naval detachment had only forty rounds of ammunition; which was expended in about three
hours, and the firing had to cease until the arrival of the next naval detachment. The latter
when it came into the battery, had only forty rounds of ammunition and was to serve until relieved,
the next afternoon by a third naval detachment.

Before the ammunition of the first detachment was expended the embrasures were all in a very
bad condition--the battery was almost entirely unserviceable; and before the second detachment
arrived I caused the embrasures to be filled up, until the battery could be repaired that night
and put in good condition for re-opening the next day.

The second naval detachment came into the battery about the middle of the afternoon. The naval
captain in command, without consulting me, ordered the embrasures to be cleared at once, with
the intention of immediately opening fire. Perceiving what was being done by the sailors in
re-opening the embrasures, I ordered them to stop; and asked by whose authority they were acting.
On being informed that their orders came from the commander of the detachment, I asked them
to point him out to me. I immediately introduced myself to him, as the engineer officer in
full charge of the construction of the battery, and told him if the embrasures were cleared
the battery would still be unfit for service--that it could not be repaired until that night,
and would then be put in better condition than it was when it first opened. The army gun battery
would be ready next morning; and its fire, combined with that of the naval battery, after the
latter was put in good condition, would be very effective. But, if the naval detachment opened
fire that afternoon, the battery being unfit for service, its ammunition would be exhausted
before night without hurting the enemy; and the battery would necessarily be silent the next
day, when the army battery would open its fire.

The naval captain insisted that the embrasures should be cleared at once, and the firing resumed.

I protested against his clearing the embrasures and told him that, but for the appearance of
the thing, I would leave the battery and take my men with me if he persisted in carrying out
his intentions. I added: "I will remain here until regularly relieved, but will continue to
protest against the course you propose to pursue".

He then told me that it was "the General's" order that he should open fire that afternoon as
promptly as possible.

I asked him why he had not told me of that order in the first place; and added: "It is not
customary for General Scott to give orders to engineer officers through officers of the navy.
But, if you had told me in the beginning that he had ordered the battery to commence firing
as soon as possible after you reached it, I would have accepted his order--coming to me through
you."

To this he replied; "I did not say the order came from General Scott." I asked: "Whom did you
mean when you said 'the General.'" He told me that he meant "General Patterson." To which I
replied: "I receive no orders in reference to this battery except from General Scott or the
Chief Engineer of the Army."

