FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE

By Marcus Clarke

DEDICATION TO SIR CHARLES GAVAN DUFFY

My Dear Sir Charles, I take leave to dedicate this work to you, not merely because your nineteen
years of political and literary life in Australia render it very fitting that any work written
by a resident in the colonies, and having to do with the history of past colonial days, should
bear your name upon its dedicatory page; but because the publication of my book is due to your
advice and encouragement.

The convict of fiction has been hitherto shown only at the beginning or at the end of his career.
Either his exile has been the mysterious end to his misdeeds, or he has appeared upon the scene
to claim interest by reason of an equally unintelligible love of crime acquired during his
experience in a penal settlement. Charles Reade has drawn the interior of a house of correction
in England, and Victor Hugo has shown how a French convict fares after the fulfilment of his
sentence. But no writer--so far as I am aware--has attempted to depict the dismal condition
of a felon during his term of transportation.

I have endeavoured in "His Natural Life" to set forth the working and the results of an English
system of transportation carefully considered and carried out under official supervision; and
to illustrate in the manner best calculated, as I think, to attract general attention, the
inexpediency of again allowing offenders against the law to be herded together in places remote
from the wholesome influence of public opinion, and to be submitted to a discipline which must
necessarily depend for its just administration upon the personal character and temper of their
gaolers.

Your critical faculty will doubtless find, in the construction and artistic working of this
book, many faults. I do not think, however, that you will discover any exaggerations. Some
of the events narrated are doubtless tragic and terrible; but I hold it needful to my purpose
to record them, for they are events which have actually occurred, and which, if the blunders
which produced them be repeated, must infallibly occur again. It is true that the British Government
have ceased to deport the criminals of England, but the method of punishment, of which that
deportation was a part, is still in existence. Port Blair is a Port Arthur filled with Indian-men
instead of Englishmen; and, within the last year, France has established, at New Caledonia,
a penal settlement which will, in the natural course of things, repeat in its annals the history
of Macquarie Harbour and of Norfolk Island.

With this brief preface I beg you to accept this work. I would that its merits were equal either
to your kindness or to my regard.

I am,

My dear Sir Charles,

Faithfully yours,

MARCUS CLARKE

THE PUBLIC LIBRARY, MELBOURNE

CONTENTS

  DEDICATION
  PROLOGUE

  BOOK I.--THE SEA.  1827.

  I.      THE PRISON SHIP
  II.     SARAH PURFOY
  III.    THE MONOTONY BREAKS
  IV.     THE HOSPITAL
  V.      THE BARRACOON
  VI.     THE FATE OF THE "HYDASPES"
  VII.    TYPHUS FEVER
  VIII.   A DANGEROUS CRISIS
  IX.     WOMAN'S WEAPONS
  X.      EIGHT BELLS
  XI.     DISCOVERIES AND CONFESSIONS
  XII.    A NEWSPAPER PARAGRAPH

  BOOK II.--MACQUARIE HARBOUR.  1833.

  I.      THE TOPOGRAPHY OF VAN DIEMEN'S LAND
  II.     THE SOLITARY OF "HELL'S GATES"
  III.    A SOCIAL EVENING
  IV.     THE BOLTER
  V.      SYLVIA
  VI.     A LEAP IN THE DARK
  VII.    THE LAST OF MACQUARIE HARBOUR
  VIII.   THE POWER OF THE WILDERNESS
  IX.     THE SEIZURE OF THE "OSPREY"
  X.      JOHN REX'S REVENGE
  XI.     LEFT AT "HELL'S GATES"
  XII.    "MR." DAWES
  XIII.   WHAT THE SEAWEED SUGGESTED
  XIV.    A WONDERFUL DAY'S WORK
  XV.     THE CORACLE
  XVI.    THE WRITING ON THE SAND
  XVII.   AT SEA

  BOOK III.--PORT ARTHUR.  1838.

  I.      A LABOURER IN THE VINEYARD
  II.     SARAH PURFOY'S REQUEST
  III.    THE STORY OF TWO BIRDS OF PREY
  IV.     "THE NOTORIOUS DAWES"
  V.      MAURICE FRERE'S GOOD ANGEL
  VI.     MR. MEEKIN ADMINISTERS CONSOLATION
  VII.    RUFUS DAWES'S IDYLL
  VIII.   AN ESCAPE
  IX.     JOHN REX'S LETTER HOME
  X.      WHAT BECAME OF THE MUTINEERS OF THE "OSPREY"
  XI.     A RELIC OF MACQUARIE HARBOUR
  XII.    AT PORT ARTHUR
  XIII.   THE COMMANDANT'S BUTLER
  XIV.    MR. NORTH'S INDISPOSITION
  XV.     ONE HUNDRED LASHES
  XVI.    KICKING AGAINST THE PRICKS
  XVII.   CAPTAIN AND MRS. FRERE
  XVIII.  IN THE HOSPITAL
  XIX.    THE CONSOLATIONS OF RELIGION
  XX.     A NATURAL PENITENTIARY
  XXI.    A VISIT OF INSPECTION
  XXII.   GATHERING IN THE THREADS
  XXIII   RUNNING THE GAUNTLET
  XXIV.   IN THE NIGHT
  XXV.    THE FLIGHT
  XXVI.   THE WORK OF THE SEA
  XXVII.  THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW OF DEATH

  BOOK IV.--NORFOLK ISLAND.  1846.

  I.      EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH
  II.     THE LOST HEIR
  III.    EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH
  IV.     EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH
  V.      MR. RICHARD DEVINE SURPRISED
  VI.     IN WHICH THE CHAPLAIN IS TAKEN ILL
  VII.    BREAKING A MAN'S SPIRIT
  VIII.   EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH
  IX.     THE LONGEST STRAW
  X.      A MEETING
  XI.     EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH
  XII.    THE STRANGE BEHAVIOUR OF MR. NORTH
  XIII.   MR. NORTH SPEAKS
  XIV.    GETTING READY FOR SEA
  XV.     THE DISCOVERY
  XVI.    FIFTEEN HOURS
  XVII.   THE REDEMPTION
  XVIII.  THE CYCLONE

  EPILOGUE

  APPENDIX

HIS NATURAL LIFE.

PROLOGUE.

On the evening of May 3, 1827, the garden of a large red-brick bow-windowed mansion called
North End House, which, enclosed in spacious grounds, stands on the eastern height of Hampstead
Heath, between Finchley Road and the Chestnut Avenue, was the scene of a domestic tragedy.

Three persons were the actors in it. One was an old man, whose white hair and wrinkled face
gave token that he was at least sixty years of age. He stood erect with his back to the wall,
which separates the garden from the Heath, in the attitude of one surprised into sudden passion,
and held uplifted the heavy ebony cane upon which he was ordinarily accustomed to lean. He
was confronted by a man of two-and-twenty, unusually tall and athletic of figure, dresses in
rough seafaring clothes, and who held in his arms, protecting her, a lady of middle age. The
face of the young man wore an expression of horror-stricken astonishment, and the slight frame
of the grey-haired woman was convulsed with sobs.

These three people were Sir Richard Devine, his wife, and his only son Richard, who had returned
from abroad that morning.

"So, madam," said Sir Richard, in the high-strung accents which in crises of great mental agony
are common to the most self-restrained of us, "you have been for twenty years a living lie!
For twenty years you have cheated and mocked me. For twenty years--in company with a scoundrel
whose name is a byword for all that is profligate and base--you have laughed at me for a credulous
and hood-winked fool; and now, because I dared to raise my hand to that reckless boy, you confess
your shame, and glory in the confession!"

"Mother, dear mother!" cried the young man, in a paroxysm of grief, "say that you did not mean
those words; you said them but in anger! See, I am calm now, and he may strike me if he will."

Lady Devine shuddered, creeping close, as though to hide herself in the broad bosom of her son.

The old man continued: "I married you, Ellinor Wade, for your beauty; you married me for my
fortune. I was a plebeian, a ship's carpenter; you were well born, your father was a man of
fashion, a gambler, the friend of rakes and prodigals. I was rich. I had been knighted. I was
in favour at Court. He wanted money, and he sold you. I paid the price he asked, but there
was nothing of your cousin, my Lord Bellasis and Wotton, in the bond."

"Spare me, sir, spare me!" said Lady Ellinor faintly.

"Spare you! Ay, you have spared me, have you not? Look ye," he cried, in sudden fury, "I am
not to be fooled so easily. Your family are proud. Colonel Wade has other daughters. Your lover,
my Lord Bellasis, even now, thinks to retrieve his broken fortunes by marriage. You have confessed
your shame. To-morrow your father, your sisters, all the world, shall know the story you have
told me!"

"By Heaven, sir, you will not do this!" burst out the young man.

"Silence, bastard!" cried Sir Richard. "Ay, bite your lips; the word is of your precious mother's
making!"

Lady Devine slipped through her son's arms and fell on her knees at her husband's feet.

"Do not do this, Richard. I have been faithful to you for two-and-twenty years. I have borne
all the slights and insults you have heaped upon me. The shameful secret of my early love broke
from me when in your rage, you threatened him. Let me go away; kill me; but do not shame me."

Sir Richard, who had turned to walk away, stopped suddenly, and his great white eyebrows came
together in his red face with a savage scowl. He laughed, and in that laugh his fury seemed
to congeal into a cold and cruel hate.

"You would preserve your good name then. You would conceal this disgrace from the world. You
shall have your wish--upon one condition."

"What is it, sir?" she asked, rising, but trembling with terror, as she stood with drooping
arms and widely opened eyes.

The old man looked at her for an instant, and then said slowly, "That this impostor, who so
long has falsely borne my name, has wrongfully squandered my money, and unlawfully eaten my
bread, shall pack! That he abandon for ever the name he has usurped, keep himself from my sight,
and never set foot again in house of mine."

"You would not part me from my only son!" cried the wretched woman.

"Take him with you to his father then."

Richard Devine gently loosed the arms that again clung around his neck, kissed the pale face,
and turned his own--scarcely less pale--towards the old man.

"I owe you no duty," he said. "You have always hated and reviled me. When by your violence
you drove me from your house, you set spies to watch me in the life I had chosen. I have nothing
in common with you. I have long felt it. Now when I learn for the first time whose son I really
am, I rejoice to think that I have less to thank you for than I once believed. I accept the
terms you offer. I will go. Nay, mother, think of your good name."

Sir Richard Devine laughed again. "I am glad to see you are so well disposed. Listen now. To-night
I send for Quaid to alter my will. My sister's son, Maurice Frere, shall be my heir in your
stead. I give you nothing. You leave this house in an hour. You change your name; you never
by word or deed make claim on me or mine. No matter what strait or poverty you plead--if even
your life should hang upon the issue--the instant I hear that there exists on earth one who
calls himself Richard Devine, that instant shall your mother's shame become a public scandal.
You know me. I keep my word. I return in an hour, madam; let me find him gone."

He passed them, upright, as if upborne by passion, strode down the garden with the vigour that
anger lends, and took the road to London.

"Richard!" cried the poor mother. "Forgive me, my son! I have ruined you."

Richard Devine tossed his black hair from his brow in sudden passion of love and grief.

"Mother, dear mother, do not weep," he said. "I am not worthy of your tears. Forgive! It is
I--impetuous and ungrateful during all your years of sorrow--who most need forgiveness. Let
me share your burden that I may lighten it. He is just. It is fitting that I go. I can earn
a name--a name that I need not blush to bear nor you to hear. I am strong. I can work. The
world is wide. Farewell! my own mother!"

"Not yet, not yet! Ah! see he has taken the Belsize Road. Oh, Richard, pray Heaven they may
not meet."

"Tush! They will not meet! You are pale, you faint!"

"A terror of I know not what coming evil overpowers me. I tremble for the future. Oh, Richard,
Richard! Forgive me! Pray for me."

"Hush, dearest! Come, let me lead you in. I will write. I will send you news of me once at
least, ere I depart. So--you are calmer, mother!"

          *          *          *          *          *

Sir Richard Devine, knight, shipbuilder, naval contractor, and millionaire, was the son of
a Harwich boat carpenter. Early left an orphan with a sister to support, he soon reduced his
sole aim in life to the accumulation of money. In the Harwich boat-shed, nearly fifty years
before, he had contracted--in defiance of prophesied failure--to build the Hastings sloop of
war for His Majesty King George the Third's Lords of the Admiralty. This contract was the thin
end of that wedge which eventually split the mighty oak block of Government patronage into
three-deckers and ships of the line; which did good service under Pellew, Parker, Nelson, Hood;
which exfoliated and ramified into huge dockyards at Plymouth, Portsmouth, and Sheerness, and
bore, as its buds and flowers, countless barrels of measly pork and maggoty biscuit. The sole
aim of the coarse, pushing and hard-headed son of Dick Devine was to make money. He had cringed
and crawled and fluttered and blustered, had licked the dust off great men's shoes, and danced
attendance in great men's ante-chambers. Nothing was too low, nothing too high for him. A shrewd
man of business, a thorough master of his trade, troubled with no scruples of honour or of
delicacy, he made money rapidly, and saved it when made. The first hint that the public received
of his wealth was in 1796, when Mr. Devine, one of the shipwrights to the Government, and a
comparatively young man of forty-four or thereabouts, subscribed five thousand pounds to the
Loyalty Loan raised to prosecute the French war. In 1805, after doing good, and it was hinted
not unprofitable, service in the trial of Lord Melville, the Treasurer of the Navy, he married
his sister to a wealthy Bristol merchant, one Anthony Frere, and married himself to Ellinor
Wade, the eldest daughter of Colonel Wotton Wade, a boon companion of the Regent, and uncle
by marriage of a remarkable scamp and dandy, Lord Bellasis. At that time, what with lucky speculations
in the Funds--assisted, it was whispered, by secret intelligence from France during the stormy
years of '13, '14, and '15--and the legitimate profit on his Government contracts, he had accumulated
a princely fortune, and could afford to live in princely magnificence. But the old-man-of-the-sea
burden of parsimony and avarice which he had voluntarily taken upon him was not to be shaken
off, and the only show he made of his wealth was by purchasing, on his knighthood, the rambling
but comfortable house at Hampstead, and ostensibly retiring from active business.

His retirement was not a happy one. He was a stern father and a severe master. His servants
hated, and his wife feared him. His only son Richard appeared to inherit his father's strong
will and imperious manner. Under careful supervision and a just rule he might have been guided
to good; but left to his own devices outside, and galled by the iron yoke of parental discipline
at home, he became reckless and prodigal. The mother--poor, timid Ellinor, who had been rudely
torn from the love of her youth, her cousin, Lord Bellasis--tried to restrain him, but the
head-strong boy, though owning for his mother that strong love which is often a part of such
violent natures, proved intractable, and after three years of parental feud, he went off to
the Continent, to pursue there the same reckless life which in London had offended Sir Richard.
Sir Richard, upon this, sent for Maurice Frere, his sister's son--the abolition of the slave
trade had ruined the Bristol House of Frere--and bought for him a commission in a marching
regiment, hinting darkly of special favours to come. His open preference for his nephew had
galled to the quick his sensitive wife, who contrasted with some heart-pangs the gallant prodigality
of her father with the niggardly economy of her husband. Between the houses of parvenu Devine
and long-descended Wotton Wade there had long been little love. Sir Richard felt that the colonel
despised him for a city knight, and had heard that over claret and cards Lord Bellasis and
his friends had often lamented the hard fortune which gave the beauty, Ellinor, to so sordid
a bridegroom. Armigell Esme Wade, Viscount Bellasis and Wotton, was a product of his time.
Of good family (his ancestor, Armigell, was reputed to have landed in America before Gilbert
or Raleigh), he had inherited his manor of Bellasis, or Belsize, from one Sir Esme Wade, ambassador
from Queen Elizabeth to the King of Spain in the delicate matter of Mendoza, and afterwards
counsellor to James I, and Lieutenant of the Tower. This Esme was a man of dark devices. It
was he who negotiated with Mary Stuart for Elizabeth; it was he who wormed out of Cobham the
evidence against the great Raleigh. He became rich, and his sister (the widow of Henry de Kirkhaven,
Lord of Hemfleet) marrying into the family of the Wottons, the wealth of the house was further
increased by the union of her daughter Sybil with Marmaduke Wade. Marmaduke Wade was a Lord
of the Admiralty, and a patron of Pepys, who in his diary [July 17,1668] speaks of visiting
him at Belsize. He was raised to the peerage in 1667 by the title of Baron Bellasis and Wotton,
and married for his second wife Anne, daughter of Philip Stanhope, second Earl of Chesterfield.
Allied to this powerful house, the family tree of Wotton Wade grew and flourished.

In 1784, Philip, third Baron, married the celebrated beauty, Miss Povey, and had issue Armigell
Esme, in whose person the family prudence seemed to have run itself out.

The fourth Lord Bellasis combined the daring of Armigell, the adventurer, with the evil disposition
of Esme, the Lieutenant of the Tower. No sooner had he become master of his fortune than he
took to dice, drink, and debauchery with all the extravagance of the last century. He was foremost
in every riot, most notorious of all the notorious "bloods" of the day.

Horace Walpole, in one of his letters to Selwyn in 1785, mentions a fact which may stand for
a page of narrative. "Young Wade," he says, "is reported to have lost one thousand guineas
last night to that vulgarest of all the Bourbons, the Duc de Chartres, and they say the fool
is not yet nineteen." From a pigeon Armigell Wade became a hawk, and at thirty years of age,
having lost together with his estates all chance of winning the one woman who might have saved
him--his cousin Ellinor--he became that most unhappy of all beings, a well-born blackleg. When
he was told by thin-lipped, cool Colonel Wade that the rich shipbuilder, Sir Richard Devine,
had proposed an alliance with fair-haired gentle Ellinor, he swore, with fierce knitting of
his black brows, that no law of man nor Heaven should further restrain him in his selfish prodigality.
"You have sold your daughter and ruined me," he said; "look to the consequences." Colonel Wade
sneered at his fiery kinsman: "You will find Sir Richard's house a pleasant one to visit, Armigell;
and he should be worth an income to so experienced a gambler as yourself." Lord Bellasis did
visit at Sir Richard's house during the first year of his cousin's marriage; but upon the birth
of the son who is the hero of this history, he affected a quarrel with the city knight, and
cursing him to the Prince and Poins for a miserly curmudgeon, who neither diced nor drank like
a gentleman, departed, more desperately at war with fortune than ever, for his old haunts.
The year 1827 found him a hardened, hopeless old man of sixty, battered in health and ruined
in pocket; but who, by dint of stays, hair-dye, and courage, yet faced the world with undaunted
front, and dined as gaily in bailiff-haunted Belsize as he had dined at Carlton House. Of the
possessions of the House of Wotton Wade, this old manor, timberless and bare, was all that
remained, and its master rarely visited it.

On the evening of May 3, 1827, Lord Bellasis had been attending a pigeon match at Hornsey Wood,
and having resisted the importunities of his companion, Mr. Lionel Crofton (a young gentleman-rake,
whose position in the sporting world was not the most secure), who wanted him to go on into
town, he had avowed his intention of striking across Hampstead to Belsize. "I have an appointment
at the fir trees on the Heath," he said.

"With a woman?" asked Mr. Crofton.

"Not at all; with a parson."

"A parson!"

"You stare! Well, he is only just ordained. I met him last year at Bath on his vacation from
Cambridge, and he was good enough to lose some money to me."

"And now waits to pay it out of his first curacy. I wish your lordship joy with all my soul.
Then, we must push on, for it grows late."

"Thanks, my dear sir, for the 'we,' but I must go alone," said Lord Bellasis dryly. "To-morrow
you can settle with me for the sitting of last week. Hark! the clock is striking nine. Good night."

          *          *          *          *          *

At half-past nine Richard Devine quitted his mother's house to begin the new life he had chosen,
and so, drawn together by that strange fate of circumstances which creates events, the father
and son approached each other.

          *          *          *          *          *

As the young man gained the middle of the path which led to the Heath, he met Sir Richard returning
from the village. It was no part of his plan to seek an interview with the man whom his mother
had so deeply wronged, and he would have slunk past in the gloom; but seeing him thus alone
returning to a desolated home, the prodigal was tempted to utter some words of farewell and
of regret. To his astonishment, however, Sir Richard passed swiftly on, with body bent forward
as one in the act of falling, and with eyes unconscious of surroundings, staring straight into
the distance. Half-terrified at this strange appearance, Richard hurried onward, and at a turn
of the path stumbled upon something which horribly accounted for the curious action of the
old man. A dead body lay upon its face in the heather; beside it was a heavy riding whip stained
at the handle with blood, and an open pocket-book. Richard took up the book, and read, in gold
letters on the cover, "Lord Bellasis."

The unhappy young man knelt down beside the body and raised it. The skull had been fractured
by a blow, but it seemed that life yet lingered. Overcome with horror--for he could not doubt
but that his mother's worst fears had been realized--Richard knelt there holding his murdered
father in his arms, waiting until the murderer, whose name he bore, should have placed himself
beyond pursuit. It seemed an hour to his excited fancy before he saw a light pass along the
front of the house he had quitted, and knew that Sir Richard had safely reached his chamber.
With some bewildered intention of summoning aid, he left the body and made towards the town.
As he stepped out on the path he heard voices, and presently some dozen men, one of whom held
a horse, burst out upon him, and, with sudden fury, seized and flung him to the ground.

At first the young man, so rudely assailed, did not comprehend his own danger. His mind, bent
upon one hideous explanation of the crime, did not see another obvious one which had already
occurred to the mind of the landlord of the Three Spaniards.

"God defend me!" cried Mr. Mogford, scanning by the pale light of the rising moon the features
of the murdered man, "but it is Lord Bellasis!--oh, you bloody villain! Jem, bring him along
here, p'r'aps his lordship can recognize him!"

"It was not I!" cried Richard Devine. "For God's sake, my lord say--" then he stopped abruptly,
and being forced on his knees by his captors, remained staring at the dying man, in sudden
and ghastly fear.

Those men in whom emotion has the effect of quickening circulation of the blood reason rapidly
in moments of danger, and in the terrible instant when his eyes met those of Lord Bellasis,
Richard Devine had summed up the chances of his future fortune, and realized to the full his
personal peril. The runaway horse had given the alarm. The drinkers at the Spaniards' Inn had
started to search the Heath, and had discovered a fellow in rough costume, whose person was
unknown to them, hastily quitting a spot where, beside a rifled pocket-book and a blood-stained
whip, lay a dying man.

The web of circumstantial evidence had enmeshed him. An hour ago escape would have been easy.
He would have had but to cry, "I am the son of Sir Richard Devine. Come with me to yonder house,
and I will prove to you that I have but just quitted it,"--to place his innocence beyond immediate
question. That course of action was impossible now. Knowing Sir Richard as he did, and believing,
moreover, that in his raging passion the old man had himself met and murdered the destroyer
of his honour, the son of Lord Bellasis and Lady Devine saw himself in a position which would
compel him either to sacrifice himself, or to purchase a chance of safety at the price of his
mother's dishonour and the death of the man whom his mother had deceived. If the outcast son
were brought a prisoner to North End House, Sir Richard--now doubly oppressed of fate--would
be certain to deny him; and he would be compelled, in self-defence, to reveal a story which
would at once bring his mother to open infamy, and send to the gallows the man who had been
for twenty years deceived--the man to whose kindness he owed education and former fortune. 

Unfortunately for our Marchioness, Count Alhedín was not a man against whom they could enforce such
subtle arts. Count perhaps liked it rested quietly in doubt when other subjects it was, but in
the business of love, like leaving the question soon.

Elisa's flirtations were not, therefore, the success they had with other men.

The Count raised the issue in such a way that was necessary for the mystery is cleared. Elisa whisked
denied all their flirtations, and the Count is away until calm, coldly his claim of love. They
returned the flirting, the demands were renewed, and she again refused, and Condesito unwittingly
offended, withdrew completely from the court to Elisa.

All Flirting further work was lost. The Condesito Elisa even gave satisfaction of pride, showing
their anger or exhale a complaint.

The last flirtation, the latest flirtation with the Count had been
sensitive, was in Paris during the spring.

In Paris also came the commitment of the Earl of no be sensitive again. And the Count was able
to meet its commitment. Easier conquests consoled and distracted him from that very slight
setback.

Was mortified a thousand times more pride in this than the Conde Elisa.

Unaccustomed Elisa to desist as soon heartthrobs pretending and withdraw as well with glacial
rest, he was somewhat rough, but concealed the sink.

The Condesito and she left, apparently, at least very close.

He had come to Madrid for business, and Elisa promised to go to Biarritz
for the summer.

Occurred, while in Madrid the Count, the appearance of Dona Ines Beatriz and Gardens Buen Retiro,
the efforts of Count to know them and treat them, and eventually as we have already referred.

The
count did not go to Biarritz to fulfill his promise friendly.

Elisa, at first, distracted with other flirtations, surrounded by
adoration and triumphant ever, not missed the lack of Conde.

Assumed that business and held him still lasted in Madrid.

Later, when he reached her ears that kept him in Madrid Conde new
love, Elisa was a little upset as, but not well ascertained that no
new love were in no great lady, no lady swanky and famous, but with
a villager, wife of a writer or anything like that, he became a terrible
desire to laugh and make fun the Condesito, and forgot his brilliant
victories past, considering it as an unhappy parapoco, who took refuge
from the tacky, or failure to achieve anything in higher areas, or
having depressed mood, or taste havoc, ruin and plebeian.

Elisa returned to Madrid. Count saw in theaters, walks and talks, and found it so kindly and so friendly
affection that was more certain than ever his indifference to her
point to love.

Indifference could not be affected or pretended that way.

This began to offend the vanity of Elisa.

We dare not smite also ensure that any other fiber of his heart, less petty than that which corresponds
to vanity.

It also captured the mood of Elisa's most lively curiosity to know the woman clerk, from whom
all claimed as the Count was in love.

But Dona Beatriz had not penetrated more classrooms than in those of the Countess of San Teódulo;
would not drive, for the simple reason that it was not, going to
Mass and other church and other times that of Elisa.

Anyway, they went months without Elisa came to see Dona Beatriz. It is true that if Elisa walked
curious, he was also afraid of her. I was afraid to find it beautiful and naturally distinguished.
He reveled in mock vulgar and ordinary.

Meanwhile, Elisa came to the notice of something that had to mortify most of all: the drive
Count on us to believe that their relations with Dona Beatriz was
Petrarchism himself.

Was this is true or not, involved a consideration, respect, a delicate attention to clerk's wife,
Elisa was filled with anger and even envy when it pondered. The more efforts did not ponder,
the more frequent were the thoughts.

Elisa still conformed to explain everything by a certain cowardice,
indolence or poverty of spirit, which withdrew the count of how difficult
and how easy it was inclined to, that led him to depart of the rough
and steep climb to follow the beaten path and plains.

The I could not suffer with patience was that the Count is pleased and still boasts that go
up by higher roughness, and struggling with the toughest challenges she had excited in vain to climb
and overcome.

Despite their efforts to pretend the contrary, insisted Elisa then form large idea of ​​merit
of Dona Beatriz.

- It must be - he said to himself - a devil woman, beautiful, discreet,
possessing infernal resources, as has been bewitched and stupefy the
Count, which is no small or inexperienced no fool.

With these and similar reflections the Marquesa is tormented almost continuously.

The new, finally, the showdown with the poet Arturo Conde to defend the pristine purity of women's
clerk, a bomb exploded in the heart of Elisa.

- The wish, the love
madly - Elisa said in the depths of my soul -.

What will be done that daemon to capture those thoughts free to breaking on the mind clear
and calm, to move a storm of passions in that spirit so calmly?

Nothing fixed Elisa answer such questions, but vaguely, and pretended to Dona Beatriz so beautiful,
so quiet and so elegant as it was in reality, and also implied in
Dona Beatriz learned an art not a wisdom infused just so extraordinary,
that all flirtations she used to use were crude, childish or silly,
in comparison with those of fortunate that dark and provincial.

In this state of mind came a day happened to be damn, going for a walk Elisa in Lander, while passing
through the Puerta del Sol at about four o'clock in the afternoon, interpose some women off
guard and they were about to be trampled.

The man who accompanied escaped the danger of shaking his stick before the horse, which, terrified,
is raised their hands, and gesticulating rearing and shook the landau and scared at the same time
Elisa.

How it would not be surprised to recognize the man who had just given
him the fright Alhedín Count himself, who greeted her politely and
humbly asked forgiveness sign of that necessary irreverence!

There was no time for talk to Elisa Conde, whose horses, paragraph
Count them block the path, pulled furiously, despite the vigor with
which the driver was holding.

Elisa had time, however, to look, to examine the two women.

Guessed the point who they were.

Cruel was the result of its review.

Beatriz absorbed their attention, scarcely noticed Inesita; but Beatrice saw her and watched,
studied with an intensity so deep, which offset surplus over the
short period of the study.

In the depths of his consciousness, into that abyss where not served by larger self live in
us, and as far as understanding rarely gets dull, Elisa recognized much lower for a moment
around Dona Beatriz.

Soon, however, turned his mind from the prostration, he recovered from being intimidated, the faint
he had fallen.

The reaction of wounded pride was very violent and powerful.

Then, running in his car down the street of Alcala, Elisa vowed to fight to the death Dona
Beatriz, which was far removed from that rose against him so formidable enemy.

On behalf of pride in the name of love, which was born suddenly pride in his soul, if well with impure
bastard birth, Elisa was resolved to fight, to venture all to attract
Count back and take it away from Dona Beatriz and take it.

Husband or lover, everything was just at that moment of anger: what mattered was held the count,
get that was not Dona Beatriz, get that woman saw abandoned.

XVII

Despite its cult of Dona Beatriz, the Condesito still going to theaters, tours and meetings
aristocratic. At these points always found Elisa.

This re-used to captivate all the means employed had before, but the little Count, firm and cold
as a stone, it is not sensible or even showed it was understood.

Elisa did not lose hope so: its arts and was strained beyond the term until where his life had
taken the flirtation. Neither got the Count and give the slightest sign that were inclined to
surrender.

Elisa then took pains in her dress and hairstyle, looked new and rich galas, the mother of
invention so that the gatherings had more spell their conversation, drew around him a few men were
worth more to any style, was surrounded by more brilliant and numerous
court ever and even so he could overcome the indifference of Conde.

Samples gave him more obvious and flattering your choice of left planted a thousand times around
a circle of admirers, and breaking on balls, went to grab the arm
of the scornful.

For he was the sweetest eyes, the warmest smiles, all those signs in short, often portend for
and reveal love, without going beyond the limits of modesty and decorum.

The count did not respond to diversion. This would, but less cruel. The Count replied with
gratitude, with extreme courtesy and compliance with such glacial, which put itself out of the
poor Marchioness.

Imagine, finally, Elisa, that was happening with the Count as the shepherd liar in the fable
who cried "Wolf! Wolf!

"When the wolf came, and that once the wolf came, not worth crying "Wolf!" because those who could
help him no credit given their cries. Elisa Conde estimated that came with the claim, fearing
new joke. Was therefore necessary to give full evidence of sincerity.

Much has violated before resolving. His pride would not consent. Their customs, so contrary the humble
honesty, his desire to put dock.

Elisa knew promising, encouraging, giving hope in such an air and confusing that even she
could deny that he had promised encouraged. His love, or rather the ghost, the appearance of love
she created and nurtured in his soul, was so subtle and vaporous,
it slid to the bulk of the most hardened, sometimes waking up storms,
and left no trace no trace of their passage.

Vanish as shadow was illusory, vain as sylph, and had the strength
to destroy a giant heart.

But the ghost of love is not worth it and with the Count. True love, though born of envy and jealousy,
not worth either. The Count, chastened and false love, false took for the true. It was essential
to show his true love and reality, but offered the slightest doubt. Elisa Beatriz eager to steal
the heart of the Count, cost what it might took.

In this mood, Elisa was given to all that could assure the victory. But in the midst of its most
violent passions, prudence never left. Estimated calmly, as if in quiet.

Calculated, then, on this occasion, that unconditional surrender was not victory but defeat;
it is possible that the Count, true winner, to return to Dona Beatriz,
hiding fleeting infidelity or asking pardon for his fault.

Elisa shivered just thinking of spite.

His first idea was that the Count, if left to Dona Beatrice, or her husband or her lover, limited
to only one of the two terms of the dilemma.

The Marquesa, so free up there, decided to subject to the dominion of man. It was rich, despite
his futile flirtation, its reputation had been preserved without
stain, was no less illustrious family that the Count, was for Count
an excellent match, why were not to marry the two?

It was the only sure Elisa had to triumph over Dona Beatriz.

A woman as proud as a hint Elisa could not direct the Count: they could not She was declared.
Decidióse, therefore, a step that would not compromise its reputation, which the left unharmed,
but could mortify his vanity.

Called home to an elderly uncle who inspired him the most confidence
confession made to him general of his flirtation with Count Alhedín;
recognized that with love there are no jokes; stated that, teasing
her with love, and was mocked, the captive and love, and begged the
wise guy who saw the mother of the little Count, and, as their own,
while giving understand that it was satisfied that the Marquise was
propitious, propose to that lady so bright marriage for his son.

Uncle discretion and ability to comply with the delicate assignment. Alhedín widow Countess
found that his son could not dream of better wedding, and put himself
entirely from the Marquesa, whose strong will for the Count's extremely
flattered.

It goes without saying that the negotiations were with the utmost secrecy.

The Countess of Alhedín had with his son a long conversation, he talked about the wedding proposal
as a great joy to his house, and an auspicious event which deserved all approval and tried to take
away from the amorous entanglements meant it, painting the home delights domestic and repeating
what was sometimes said, that it was time that had a family, acquire other serious and respectable
and employed his life and the high clothing God had given serious
matters, that would be of greater pro and luster of his name and for
the good of his country.

The Condesito again denied his mother that
he had relations with Dona Beatriz, and confessed I had been prendadísimo
de la Marquesa, but added that his heartless coquetry he had healed
from the principle of love, and that he had healed so completely that
it was and impossible to love the Marquise, and therefore to marry
her, while recognizing that was worthy of carrying his name and be
his partner in life.

In short, although in an indirect way, and with
the deepest secrecy, and softening the blow those who spent two means,
namely: first, the Countess, speaking to the uncle, and Uncle after
talking to the niece, but she, like hard lesson as punishment for
his flirtations, received what is commonly called a terrible squash.

The
pride of Elisa, insulted and humiliated in the most lively, called
revenge from the bottom of his heart.

Elisa never expected, nor in
their darkest dreams and desperate, that a man had to resist their
powerful attractions and the magic of his flirtations, that this man
had of love when it was she who used to love all men, and finally
had to drive up to the point of taking the initiative and to beg his
hand, and to receive from him an insolent and merciless condemnation.

The
cause of all these evils was Dona Beatriz. Because of Dona Beatriz
Elisa believed that Earl had fallen in love, because of Dona Beatriz
Conde believed that the despised. 

The anger took hold of his soul
threw away the anger all feeling generous, scruples, any consideration
to oppose revenge.

As long as revenge She did not draw as neither
the crime, do not blush in the media reflect vilest and get to take
advantage of them.

XVIII

Two days after the cruel disappointment
of Elisa, Don Braulio Gonzalez, to go sit in the his desk in the Ministry,
he saw on his desk a letter which was addressed. The opened and read
as follows:

"Mr. Don Braulio: Fame is spreading everywhere you listísimo.
I've taken you love and do not want to believe. In the situation you
are ready to call him the greatest injury. Indeed you may not be ready
in just. Or you are not ready, or you go over ready. I prefer to believe
and say that you are stupid. It would be so infamous know and hide!
No, you do not know what in Madrid knows every living creature. You
do not hide.

For an instant the two looked at each other, and then Rufus Dawes was seized from behind by
his collar, and flung with a shock upon the deck.

Leaping to his feet, his first impulse was to rush upon his assailant, but he saw the ready
bayonet of the sentry gleam, and he checked himself with an effort, for his assailant was Mr.
Maurice Frere.

"What the devil do you do here?" asked the gentleman with an oath. "You lazy, skulking hound,
what brings you here? If I catch you putting your foot on the quarter-deck again, I'll give
you a week in irons!"

Rufus Dawes, pale with rage and mortification, opened his mouth to justify himself, but he
allowed the words to die on his lips. What was the use? "Go down below, and remember what I've
told you," cried Frere; and comprehending at once what had occurred, he made a mental minute
of the name of the defaulting sentry.

The convict, wiping the blood from his face, turned on his heel without a word, and went back
through the strong oak door into his den. Frere leant forward and took the girl's shapely hand
with an easy gesture, but she drew it away, with a flash of her black eyes.

"You coward!" she said.

The stolid soldier close beside them heard it, and his eye twinkled. Frere bit his thick lips
with mortification, as he followed the girl into the cuddy. Sarah Purfoy, however, taking the
astonished Sylvia by the hand, glided into her mistress's cabin with a scornful laugh, and
shut the door behind her.

CHAPTER II. SARAH PURFOY.

Convictism having been safely got under hatches, and put to bed in its Government allowance
of sixteen inches of space per man, cut a little short by exigencies of shipboard, the cuddy
was wont to pass some not unpleasant evenings. Mrs. Vickers, who was poetical and owned a guitar,
was also musical and sang to it. Captain Blunt was a jovial, coarse fellow; Surgeon Pine had
a mania for story-telling; while if Vickers was sometimes dull, Frere was always hearty. Moreover,
the table was well served, and what with dinner, tobacco, whist, music, and brandy and water,
the sultry evenings passed away with a rapidity of which the wild beasts 'tween decks, cooped
by sixes in berths of a mere five feet square, had no conception.

On this particular evening, however, the cuddy was dull. Dinner fell flat, and conversation
languished.

"No signs of a breeze, Mr. Best?" asked Blunt, as the first officer came in and took his seat.

"None, sir."

"These--he, he!--awful calms," says Mrs. Vickers. "A week, is it not, Captain Blunt?"

"Thirteen days, mum," growled Blunt.

"I remember, off the Coromandel coast," put in cheerful Pine, "when we had the plague in the
Rattlesnake--"

"Captain Vickers, another glass of wine?" cried Blunt, hastening to cut the anecdote short.

"Thank you, no more. I have the headache."

"Headache--um--don't wonder at it, going down among those fellows. It is infamous the way they
crowd these ships. Here we have over two hundred souls on board, and not boat room for half
of 'em."

"Two hundred souls! Surely not," says Vickers. "By the King's Regulations--"

"One hundred and eighty convicts, fifty soldiers, thirty in ship's crew, all told, and--how
many?--one, two three--seven in the cuddy. How many do you make that?"

"We are just a little crowded this time," says Best.

"It is very wrong," says Vickers, pompously. "Very wrong. By the King's Regulations--"

But the subject of the King's Regulations was even more distasteful to the cuddy than Pine's
interminable anecdotes, and Mrs. Vickers hastened to change the subject.

"Are you not heartily tired of this dreadful life, Mr. Frere?"

"Well, it is not exactly the life I had hoped to lead," said Frere, rubbing a freckled hand
over his stubborn red hair; "but I must make the best of it."

"Yes, indeed," said the lady, in that subdued manner with which one comments upon a well-known
accident, "it must have been a great shock to you to be so suddenly deprived of so large a
fortune."

"Not only that, but to find that the black sheep who got it all sailed for India within a week
of my uncle's death! Lady Devine got a letter from him on the day of the funeral to say that
he had taken his passage in the Hydaspes for Calcutta, and never meant to come back again!"

"Sir Richard Devine left no other children?"

"No, only this mysterious Dick, whom I never saw, but who must have hated me."

"Dear, dear! These family quarrels are dreadful things. Poor Lady Devine, to lose in one day
a husband and a son!"

"And the next morning to hear of the murder of her cousin! You know that we are connected with
the Bellasis family. My aunt's father married a sister of the second Lord Bellasis."

"Indeed. That was a horrible murder. So you think that the dreadful man you pointed out the
other day did it?"

"The jury seemed to think not," said Mr. Frere, with a laugh; "but I don't know anybody else
who could have a motive for it. However, I'll go on deck and have a smoke."

"I wonder what induced that old hunks of a shipbuilder to try to cut off his only son in favour
of a cub of that sort," said Surgeon Pine to Captain Vickers as the broad back of Mr. Maurice
Frere disappeared up the companion.

"Some boyish follies abroad, I believe; self-made men are always impatient of extravagance.
But it is hard upon Frere. He is not a bad sort of fellow for all his roughness, and when a
young man finds that an accident deprives him of a quarter of a million of money and leaves
him without a sixpence beyond his commission in a marching regiment under orders for a convict
settlement, he has some reason to rail against fate."

"How was it that the son came in for the money after all, then?"

"Why, it seems that when old Devine returned from sending for his lawyer to alter his will,
he got a fit of apoplexy, the result of his rage, I suppose, and when they opened his room
door in the morning they found him dead."

"And the son's away on the sea somewhere," said Mr. Vickers "and knows nothing of his good
fortune. It is quite a romance."

"I am glad that Frere did not get the money," said Pine, grimly sticking to his prejudice;
"I have seldom seen a face I liked less, even among my yellow jackets yonder."

"Oh dear, Dr. Pine! How can you?" interjected Mrs. Vickers. "'Pon my soul, ma'am, some of them
have mixed in good society, I can tell you. There's pickpockets and swindlers down below who
have lived in the best company."

"Dreadful wretches!" cried Mrs. Vickers, shaking out her skirts. "John, I will go on deck."

At the signal, the party rose.

"Ecod, Pine," says Captain Blunt, as the two were left alone together, "you and I are always
putting our foot into it!"

"Women are always in the way aboard ship," returned Pine.

"Ah! Doctor, you don't mean that, I know," said a rich soft voice at his elbow.

It was Sarah Purfoy emerging from her cabin.

"Here is the wench!" cries Blunt. "We are talking of your eyes, my dear." "Well, they'll bear
talking about, captain, won't they?" asked she, turning them full upon him.

"By the Lord, they will!" says Blunt, smacking his hand on the table. "They're the finest eyes
I've seen in my life, and they've got the reddest lips under 'm that--"

"Let me pass, Captain Blunt, if you please. Thank you, doctor."

And before the admiring commander could prevent her, she modestly swept out of the cuddy.

"She's a fine piece of goods, eh?" asked Blunt, watching her. "A spice o' the devil in her, too."

Old Pine took a huge pinch of snuff.

"Devil! I tell you what it is, Blunt. I don't know where Vickers picked her up, but I'd rather
trust my life with the worst of those ruffians 'tween decks, than in her keeping, if I'd done
her an injury."

Blunt laughed.

"I don't believe she'd think much of sticking a man, either!" he said, rising. "But I must
go on deck, doctor." Pine followed him more slowly. "I don't pretend to know much about women,"
he said to himself, "but that girl's got a story of her own, or I'm much mistaken. What brings
her on board this ship as lady's-maid is more than I can fathom." And as, sticking his pipe
between his teeth, he walked down the now deserted deck to the main hatchway, and turned to
watch the white figure gliding up and down the poop-deck, he saw it joined by another and a
darker one, he muttered, "She's after no good, I'll swear."

At that moment his arm was touched by a soldier in undress uniform, who had come up the hatchway.
"What is it?"

The man drew himself up and saluted.

"If you please, doctor, one of the prisoners is taken sick, and as the dinner's over, and he's
pretty bad, I ventured to disturb your honour."

"You ass!" says Pine--who, like many gruff men, had a good heart under his rough shell--"why
didn't you tell me before?" and knocking the ashes out of his barely-lighted pipe, he stopped
that implement with a twist of paper and followed his summoner down the hatchway.

In the meantime the woman who was the object of the grim old fellow's suspicions was enjoying
the comparative coolness of the night air. Her mistress and her mistress's daughter had not
yet come out of their cabin, and the men had not yet finished their evening's tobacco. The
awning had been removed, the stars were shining in the moonless sky, the poop guard had shifted
itself to the quarter-deck, and Miss Sarah Purfoy was walking up and down the deserted poop,
in close tête-à-tête with no less a person than Captain Blunt himself. She had passed and repassed
him twice silently, and at the third turn the big fellow, peering into the twilight ahead somewhat
uneasily, obeyed the glitter of her great eyes, and joined her.

"You weren't put out, my wench," he asked, "at what I said to you below?"

She affected surprise.

"What do you mean?"

"Why, at my--at what I--at my rudeness, there! For I was a bit rude, I admit."

"I? Oh dear, no. You were not rude."

"Glad you think so!" returned Phineas Blunt, a little ashamed at what looked like a confession
of weakness on his part.

"You would have been--if I had let you."

"How do you know?"

"I saw it in your face. Do you think a woman can't see in a man's face when he's going to insult
her?"

"Insult you, hey! Upon my word!"

"Yes, insult me. You're old enough to be my father, Captain Blunt, but you've no right to kiss
me, unless I ask you."

"Haw, haw!" laughed Blunt. "I like that. Ask me! Egad, I wish you would, you black-eyed minx!"

"So would other people, I have no doubt." "That soldier officer, for instance. Hey, Miss Modesty?
I've seen him looking at you as though he'd like to try."

The girl flashed at him with a quick side glance.

"You mean Lieutenant Frere, I suppose. Are you jealous of him?"

"Jealous! Why, damme, the lad was only breeched the other day. Jealous!"

"I think you are--and you've no need to be. He is a stupid booby, though he is Lieutenant Frere."

"So he is. You are right there, by the Lord."

Sarah Purfoy laughed a low, full-toned laugh, whose sound made Blunt's pulse take a jump forward,
and sent the blood tingling down to his fingers ends.

"Captain Blunt," said she, "you're going to do a very silly thing."

He came close to her and tried to take her hand.

"What?"

She answered by another question.

"How old are you?"

"Forty-two, if you must know."

"Oh! And you are going to fall in love with a girl of nineteen."

"Who is that?"

"Myself!" she said, giving him her hand and smiling at him with her rich red lips.

The mizen hid them from the man at the wheel, and the twilight of tropical stars held the main-deck.
Blunt felt the breath of this strange woman warm on his cheek, her eyes seemed to wax and wane,
and the hard, small hand he held burnt like fire.

"I believe you are right," he cried. "I am half in love with you already."

She gazed at him with a contemptuous sinking of her heavily fringed eyelids, and withdrew her hand.

"Then don't get to the other half, or you'll regret it."

"Shall I?" asked Blunt. "That's my affair. Come, you little vixen, give me that kiss you said
I was going to ask you for below," and he caught her in his arms.

In an instant she had twisted herself free, and confronted him with flashing eyes.

"You dare!" she cried. "Kiss me by force! Pooh! you make love like a schoolboy. If you can
make me like you, I'll kiss you as often as you will. If you can't, keep your distance, please."

Blunt did not know whether to laugh or be angry at this rebuff. He was conscious that he was
in rather a ridiculous position, and so decided to laugh.

"You're a spitfire, too. What must I do to make you like me?"

She made him a curtsy.

"That is your affair," she said; and as the head of Mr. Frere appeared above the companion,
Blunt walked aft, feeling considerably bewildered, and yet not displeased.

"She's a fine girl, by jingo," he said, cocking his cap, "and I'm hanged if she ain't sweet
upon me."

And then the old fellow began to whistle softly to himself as he paced the deck, and to glance
towards the man who had taken his place with no friendly eyes. But a sort of shame held him
as yet, and he kept aloof.

Maurice Frere's greeting was short enough.

"Well, Sarah," he said, "have you got out of your temper?"

She frowned.

"What did you strike the man for? He did you no harm."

"He was out of his place. What business had he to come aft? One must keep these wretches down,
my girl."

"Or they will be too much for you, eh? Do you think one man could capture a ship, Mr. Maurice?"

"No, but one hundred might."

"Nonsense! What could they do against the soldiers? There are fifty soldiers."

"So there are, but--"

"But what?"

"Well, never mind. It's against the rules, and I won't have it."

"'Not according to the King's Regulations,' as Captain Vickers would say."

Frere laughed at her imitation of his pompous captain.

"You are a strange girl; I can't make you out. Come," and he took her hand, "tell me what you
are really."

"Will you promise not to tell?"

"Of course."

"Upon your word?"

"Upon my word."

"Well, then--but you'll tell?"

"Not I. Come, go on."

"Lady's-maid in the family of a gentleman going abroad."

"Sarah, you can't be serious?" "I am serious. That was the advertisement I answered."

"But I mean what you have been. You were not a lady's-maid all your life?"

She pulled her shawl closer round her and shivered.

"People are not born ladies' maids, I suppose?"

"Well, who are you, then? Have you no friends? What have you been?"

She looked up into the young man's face--a little less harsh at that moment than it was wont
to be--and creeping closer to him, whispered--"Do you love me, Maurice?"

He raised one of the little hands that rested on the taffrail, and, under cover of the darkness,
kissed it.

"You know I do," he said. "You may be a lady's-maid or what you like, but you are the loveliest
woman I ever met."

She smiled at his vehemence.

"Then, if you love me, what does it matter?" "If you loved me, you would tell me," said he,
with a quickness which surprised himself.

"But I have nothing to tell, and I don't love you--yet."

He let her hand fall with an impatient gesture; and at that moment Blunt--who could restrain
himself no longer--came up.

"Fine night, Mr. Frere?"

"Yes, fine enough."

"No signs of a breeze yet, though."

"No, not yet."

Just then, from out of the violet haze that hung over the horizon, a strange glow of light broke.

"Hallo," cries Frere, "did you see that?"

All had seen it, but they looked for its repetition in vain. Blunt rubbed his eyes.

"I saw it," he said, "distinctly. A flash of light." They strained their eyes to pierce through
the obscurity.

"Best saw something like it before dinner. There must be thunder in the air."

At that instant a thin streak of light shot up and then sank again. There was no mistaking
it this time, and a simultaneous exclamation burst from all on deck. From out the gloom which
hung over the horizon rose a column of flame that lighted up the night for an instant, and
then sunk, leaving a dull red spark upon the water.

"It's a ship on fire," cried Frere.

CHAPTER III. THE MONOTONY BREAKS.

They looked again, the tiny spark still burned, and immediately over it there grew out of the
darkness a crimson spot, that hung like a lurid star in the air. The soldiers and sailors on
the forecastle had seen it also, and in a moment the whole vessel was astir. Mrs. Vickers,
with little Sylvia clinging to her dress, came up to share the new sensation; and at the sight
of her mistress, the modest maid withdrew discreetly from Frere's side. Not that there was
any need to do so; no one heeded her. Blunt, in his professional excitement, had already forgotten
her presence, and Frere was in earnest conversation with Vickers.

"Take a boat?" said that gentleman. "Certainly, my dear Frere, by all means. That is to say,
if the captain does not object, and it is not contrary to the Regulations."

"Captain, you'll lower a boat, eh? We may save some of the poor devils," cries Frere, his heartiness
of body reviving at the prospect of excitement.

"Boat!" said Blunt, "why, she's twelve miles off and more, and there's not a breath o' wind!"

"But we can't let 'em roast like chestnuts!" cried the other, as the glow in the sky broadened
and became more intense.

"What is the good of a boat?" said Pine. "The long-boat only holds thirty men, and that's a
big ship yonder."

"Well, take two boats--three boats! By Heaven, you'll never let 'em burn alive without stirring
a finger to save 'em!"

"They've got their own boats," says Blunt, whose coolness was in strong contrast to the young
officer's impetuosity; "and if the fire gains, they'll take to 'em, you may depend. In the
meantime, we'll show 'em that there's someone near 'em." And as he spoke, a blue light flared
hissing into the night.

"There, they'll see that, I expect!" he said, as the ghastly flame rose, extinguishing the
stars for a moment, only to let them appear again brighter in a darker heaven.

"Mr. Best--lower and man the quarter-boats! Mr. Frere--you can go in one, if you like, and
take a volunteer or two from those grey jackets of yours amidships. I shall want as many hands
as I can spare to man the long-boat and cutter, in case we want 'em. Steady there, lads! Easy!"
and as the first eight men who could reach the deck parted to the larboard and starboard quarter-boats,
Frere ran down on the main-deck.

Mrs. Vickers, of course, was in the way, and gave a genteel scream as Blunt rudely pushed past
her with a scarce-muttered apology; but her maid was standing erect and motionless, by the
quarter-railing, and as the captain paused for a moment to look round him, he saw her dark
eyes fixed on him admiringly. He was, as he said, over forty-two, burly and grey-haired, but
he blushed like a girl under her approving gaze. Nevertheless, he said only, "That wench is
a trump!" and swore a little.

Meanwhile Maurice Frere had passed the sentry and leapt down into the 'tween decks. At his
nod, the prison door was thrown open. The air was hot, and that strange, horrible odour peculiar
to closely-packed human bodies filled the place. It was like coming into a full stable.

He ran his eye down the double tier of bunks which lined the side of the ship, and stopped
at the one opposite him.

There seemed to have been some disturbance there lately, for instead of the six pair of feet
which should have protruded therefrom, the gleam of the bull's-eye showed but four.

"What's the matter here, sentry?" he asked.

"Prisoner ill, sir. Doctor sent him to hospital."

"But there should be two."

The other came from behind the break of the berths. It was Rufus Dawes. He held by the side
as he came, and saluted.

"I felt sick, sir, and was trying to get the scuttle open."

The heads were all raised along the silent line, and eyes and ears were eager to see and listen.
The double tier of bunks looked terribly like a row of wild beast cages at that moment.

Maurice Frere stamped his foot indignantly.

"Sick! What are you sick about, you malingering dog? I'll give you something to sweat the sickness
out of you. Stand on one side here!"

Rufus Dawes, wondering, obeyed. He seemed heavy and dejected, and passed his hand across his
forehead, as though he would rub away a pain there.

"Which of you fellows can handle an oar?" Frere went on. "There, curse you, I don't want fifty!
Three'll do. Come on now, make haste!"

The heavy door clashed again, and in another instant the four "volunteers" were on deck. The
crimson glow was turning yellow now, and spreading over the sky.

"Two in each boat!" cries Blunt. "I'll burn a blue light every hour for you, Mr. Best; and
take care they don't swamp you. Lower away, lads!" As the second prisoner took the oar of Frere's
boat, he uttered a groan and fell forward, recovering himself instantly. Sarah Purfoy, leaning
over the side, saw the occurrence.

"What is the matter with that man?" she said. "Is he ill?"

Pine was next to her, and looked out instantly. "It's that big fellow in No. 10," he cried.
"Here, Frere!"

But Frere heard him not. He was intent on the beacon that gleamed ever brighter in the distance.
"Give way, my lads!" he shouted. And amid a cheer from the ship, the two boats shot out of
the bright circle of the blue light, and disappeared into the darkness.

Sarah Purfoy looked at Pine for an explanation, but he turned abruptly away. For a moment the
girl paused, as if in doubt; and then, ere his retreating figure turned to retrace its steps,
she cast a quick glance around, and slipping down the ladder, made her way to the 'tween decks.

The iron-studded oak barricade that, loop-holed for musketry, and perforated with plated trapdoor
for sterner needs, separated soldiers from prisoners, was close to her left hand, and the sentry
at its padlocked door looked at her inquiringly. She laid her little hand on his big rough
one--a sentry is but mortal--and opened her brown eyes at him.

"The hospital," she said. "The doctor sent me"; and before he could answer, her white figure
vanished down the hatch, and passed round the bulkhead, behind which lay the sick man.

CHAPTER IV. THE HOSPITAL.

The hospital was nothing more nor less than a partitioned portion of the lower deck, filched
from the space allotted to the soldiers. It ran fore and aft, coming close to the stern windows,
and was, in fact, a sort of artificial stern cabin. At a pinch, it might have held a dozen men.

Though not so hot as in the prison, the atmosphere of the lower deck was close and unhealthy,
and the girl, pausing to listen to the subdued hum of conversation coming from the soldiers'
berths, turned strangely sick and giddy. She drew herself up, however, and held out her hand
to a man who came rapidly across the misshapen shadows, thrown by the sulkily swinging lantern,
to meet her. It was the young soldier who had been that day sentry at the convict gangway.

"Well, miss," he said, "I am here, yer see, waiting for yer."

"You are a good boy, Miles; but don't you think I'm worth waiting for?"

Miles grinned from ear to ear.

"Indeed you be," said he.

Sarah Purfoy frowned, and then smiled.

"Come here, Miles; I've got something for you."

Miles came forward, grinning harder.

The girl produced a small object from the pocket of her dress. If Mrs. Vickers had seen it
she would probably have been angry, for it was nothing less than the captain's brandy-flask.

"Drink," said she. "It's the same as they have upstairs, so it won't hurt you."

The fellow needed no pressing. He took off half the contents of the bottle at a gulp, and then,
fetching a long breath, stood staring at her.

"That's prime!"

"Is it? I dare say it is." She had been looking at him with unaffected disgust as he drank.
"Brandy is all you men understand." Miles--still sucking in his breath--came a pace closer.

"Not it," said he, with a twinkle in his little pig's eyes. "I understand something else, miss,
I can tell yer."

The tone of the sentence seemed to awaken and remind her of her errand in that place. She laughed
as loudly and as merrily as she dared, and laid her hand on the speaker's arm. The boy--for
he was but a boy, one of those many ill-reared country louts who leave the plough-tail for
the musket, and, for a shilling a day, experience all the "pomp and circumstance of glorious
war"--reddened to the roots of his closely-cropped hair.

"There, that's quite close enough. You're only a common soldier, Miles, and you mustn't make
love to me."

"Not make love to yer!" says Miles. "What did yer tell me to meet yer here for then?"

She laughed again.

"What a practical animal you are! Suppose I had something to say to you?"

Miles devoured her with his eyes.

"It's hard to marry a soldier," he said, with a recruit's proud intonation of the word; "but
yer might do worse, miss, and I'll work for yer like a slave, I will."

She looked at him with curiosity and pleasure. Though her time was evidently precious, she
could not resist the temptation of listening to praises of herself.

"I know you're above me, Miss Sarah. You're a lady, but I love yer, I do, and you drives me
wild with yer tricks."

"Do I?"

"Do yer? Yes, yer do. What did yer come an' make up to me for, and then go sweetheartin' with
them others?"

"What others?"

"Why, the cuddy folk--the skipper, and the parson, and that Frere. I see yer walkin' the deck
wi' un o' nights. Dom 'um, I'd put a bullet through his red head as soon as look at un."

"Hush! Miles dear--they'll hear you."

Her face was all aglow, and her expanded nostrils throbbed. Beautiful as the face was, it had
a tigerish look about it at that moment.

Encouraged by the epithet, Miles put his arm round her slim waist, just as Blunt had done,
but she did not resent it so abruptly. Miles had promised more.

"Hush!" she whispered, with admirably-acted surprise--"I heard a noise!" and as the soldier
started back, she smoothed her dress complacently.

"There is no one!" cried he.

"Isn't there? My mistake, then. Now come here, Miles."

Miles obeyed.

"Who is in the hospital?"

"I dunno."

"Well, I want to go in."

Miles scratched his head, and grinned.

"Yer carn't."

"Why not? You've let me in before." "Against the doctor's orders. He told me special to let
no one in but himself."

"Nonsense."

"It ain't nonsense. There was a convict brought in to-night, and nobody's to go near him."

"A convict!" She grew more interested. "What's the matter with him?"

"Dunno. But he's to be kep' quiet until old Pine comes down."

She became authoritative.

"Come, Miles, let me go in."

"Don't ask me, miss. It's against orders, and--"

"Against orders? Why, you were blustering about shooting people just now."

The badgered Miles grew angry. "Was I? Bluster or no bluster, you don't go in." She turned
away. "Oh, very well. If this is all the thanks I get for wasting my time down here, I shall
go on deck again."

Miles became uneasy.

"There are plenty of agreeable people there."

Miles took a step after her.

"Mr. Frere will let me go in, I dare say, if I ask him."

Miles swore under his breath.

"Dom Mr. Frere! Go in if yer like," he said. "I won't stop yer, but remember what I'm doin' of."

She turned again at the foot of the ladder, and came quickly back.

"That's a good lad. I knew you would not refuse me"; and smiling at the poor lad she was befooling,
she passed into the cabin.

There was no lantern, and from the partially-blocked stern windows came only a dim, vaporous
light. The dull ripple of the water as the ship rocked on the slow swell of the sea made a
melancholy sound, and the sick man's heavy breathing seemed to fill the air. The slight noise
made by the opening door roused him; he rose on his elbow and began to mutter. Sarah Purfoy
paused in the doorway to listen, but she could make nothing of the low, uneasy murmuring. Raising
her arm, conspicuous by its white sleeve in the gloom, she beckoned Miles.

"The lantern," she whispered, "bring me the lantern!"

He unhooked it from the rope where it swung, and brought it towards her. At that moment the
man in the bunk sat up erect, and twisted himself towards the light. "Sarah!" he cried, in
shrill sharp tones. "Sarah!" and swooped with a lean arm through the dusk, as though to seize her.

The girl leapt out of the cabin like a panther, struck the lantern out of her lover's hand,
and was back at the bunk-head in a moment. The convict was a young man of about four-and-twenty.
His hands--clutched convulsively now on the blankets--were small and well-shaped, and the unshaven
chin bristled with promise of a strong beard. His wild black eyes glared with all the fire
of delirium, and as he gasped for breath, the sweat stood in beads on his sallow forehead.

The aspect of the man was sufficiently ghastly, and Miles, drawing back with an oath, did not
wonder at the terror which had seized Mrs. Vickers's maid. With open mouth and agonized face,
she stood in the centre of the cabin, lantern in hand, like one turned to stone, gazing at
the man on the bed.

"Ecod, he be a sight!" says Miles, at length. "Come away, miss, and shut the door. He's raving,
I tell yer."

The sound of his voice recalled her.

She dropped the lantern, and rushed to the bed.

"You fool; he's choking, can't you see? Water! give me water!"

And wreathing her arms around the man's head, she pulled it down on her bosom, rocking it there,
half savagely, to and fro.

Awed into obedience by her voice, Miles dipped a pannikin into a small puncheon, cleated in
the corner of the cabin, and gave it her; and, without thanking him, she placed it to the sick
prisoner's lips. He drank greedily, and closed his eyes with a grateful sigh.

Just then the quick ears of Miles heard the jingle of arms. "Here's the doctor coming, miss!"
he cried. "I hear the sentry saluting. Come away! Quick!"

She seized the lantern, and, opening the horn slide, extinguished it.

"Say it went out," she said in a fierce whisper, "and hold your tongue. Leave me to manage."

She bent over the convict as if to arrange his pillow, and then glided out of the cabin, just
as Pine descended the hatchway.

"Hallo!" cried he, stumbling, as he missed his footing; "where's the light?"

"Here, sir," says Miles, fumbling with the lantern. "It's all right, sir. It went out, sir."

"Went out! What did you let it go out for, you blockhead!" growled the unsuspecting Pine. "Just
like you boobies! What is the use of a light if it 'goes out', eh?" As he groped his way, with
outstretched arms, in the darkness, Sarah Purfoy slipped past him unnoticed, and gained the
upper deck.

CHAPTER V. THE BARRACOON.

In the prison of the 'tween decks reigned a darkness pregnant with murmurs. The sentry at the
entrance to the hatchway was supposed to "prevent the prisoners from making a noise," but he
put a very liberal interpretation upon the clause, and so long as the prisoners refrained from
shouting, yelling, and fighting--eccentricities in which they sometimes indulged--he did not
disturb them. This course of conduct was dictated by prudence, no less than by convenience,
for one sentry was but little over so many; and the convicts, if pressed too hard, would raise
a sort of bestial boo-hoo, in which all voices were confounded, and which, while it made noise
enough and to spare, utterly precluded individual punishment. One could not flog a hundred
and eighty men, and it was impossible to distinguish any particular offender. So, in virtue
of this last appeal, convictism had established a tacit right to converse in whispers, and
to move about inside its oaken cage.

To one coming in from the upper air, the place would have seemed in pitchy darkness, but the
convict eye, accustomed to the sinister twilight, was enabled to discern surrounding objects
with tolerable distinctness. The prison was about fifty feet long and fifty feet wide, and
ran the full height of the 'tween decks, viz., about five feet ten inches high. The barricade
was loop-holed here and there, and the planks were in some places wide enough to admit a musket
barrel. On the aft side, next the soldiers' berths, was a trap door, like the stoke-hole of
a furnace. At first sight this appeared to be contrived for the humane purpose of ventilation,
but a second glance dispelled this weak conclusion. The opening was just large enough to admit
the muzzle of a small howitzer, secured on the deck below. In case of a mutiny, the soldiers
could sweep the prison from end to end with grape shot. Such fresh air as there was, filtered
through the loopholes, and came, in somewhat larger quantity, through a wind-sail passed into
the prison from the hatchway. But the wind-sail, being necessarily at one end only of the place,
the air it brought was pretty well absorbed by the twenty or thirty lucky fellows near it,
and the other hundred and fifty did not come so well off. The scuttles were open, certainly,
but as the row of bunks had been built against them, the air they brought was the peculiar
property of such men as occupied the berths into which they penetrated. These berths were twenty-eight
in number, each containing six men. They ran in a double tier round three sides of the prison,
twenty at each side, and eight affixed to that portion of the forward barricade opposite the
door. Each berth was presumed to be five feet six inches square, but the necessities of stowage
had deprived them of six inches, and even under that pressure twelve men were compelled to
sleep on the deck. Shy girl that was perhaps the best companion to Ulysses. Also, I was
prepared for what he had seen in his childhood, to be the wife of a Marine ... Farewell to Professor!

They
married.

Then, Ferragut, who could not live idle, returned to sea, but as first officer of an ocean liner
that made regular trips to South America. For him, this amounted to be used in a floating office,
visiting the same ports, invariably repeating equal work. His mother was satisfied to see him in
uniform. Fixed his eye tape on the calendar as the wife of an employee's fixed on the clock. He
was certain that after two months, he would appear again coming across the land, charged exotic
gifts, like a husband who returns from the office with a bouquet purchased the street.

Returning from the first two trips went to wait on the dock, looked
around her gold lace cap and blue coat with passengers on ships that
were moving decks with the joy of coming to Europe.

On the next trip, Dona Cristina forced her to stay home, fearing that
the excitement agglomerations and jeopardize its next port motherhood.

Then, in each of its arrivals, Ferragut saw a new child, but always the same: first, a wrapper
of batiste and lace held by a nurse Sunday best, then - when he was captain Transatlantic - a
little boy with skirts, chubby, round head covered with silky lint, tending to it's arms and finally,
a boy who began to go to school and seeing his father grabbed his hard right hand, admiring it
with deep eyes, as though he saw in his person the realization of all the forces of the universe.

Don
Pedro the professor continued to visit the home of Dona Cristina, although less frequently. He
had resigned and coldly angry gesture of the man who thinks he has come too late and is convinced
that his misfortune is the work of the neglect ... If he had spoken
before!

The certainty of its importance is not allowed to doubt that she would have accepted with joy.

Despite
this conviction, could not contain aggressiveness at times ironic, that is vented classic inventing
nicknames. The young wife of Odysseus, bent over her lace work, Penelope was awaiting the return
of errant husband.

Cristina accepted this nickname, for knowing vaguely that it was a good queen customs. But the
day the professor, by logical deduction, called Telemachus to Tape
son, Grandma protested.

- His name is Stephen, like his grandfather
... Telemachus That is the name of theater.

In one of his trips took Ulysses a scale of a few hours at the port
of Valencia to see his godfather.

From time to time received letters from the poet, growing shorter
and sad, shaky letters that betrayed its decline.

Upon entering the office felt the same impression of the sleepers
of the legends, who believe waking up after a few hours of sleep and
stayed dozens of years.

Everything was like in its infancy: the busts of the great poets at the height of the libraries,
crowns in their glass cages, jewelry and statues won by force of consonants in their windows
and pedestals, the books of brilliant back to forming tight battalions along shelves. But the
whiteness of the bust had taken a chocolate color, the bronzes were red with rust, was green gold,
crowns are leafless. It seemed there was rained ash on the immobility of things.

People offered the same aspect of neglect and decay. Ulysses met the poet skinny and yellow, deep
in an armchair, his beard white luenga, one eye almost closed and
Another huge open.

Upon seeing the ocean, broad chest, strong man, tan, Labarta is began to mourn a child hiccups,
as if crying on the misery of human illusions, on the deceptive brevity of life that needs
the waves of constant renewal.

More work still cost Ferragut recognize a lady that was small and
cramped with the poet.

His skeleton hung flaccid fat tissues, like rags of past luxury. The head was small, her face
wrinkling had the wintry apples, plums, of all fruits that contract and mummified, losing their liquid.
"Doña Pepa !...» The tuteaban old couple now in the presence of Ulysses, with the quiet amorality
of those who are close to death and forget the fears and scruples of a life that is crumbling
behind him.

The ocean seen in this physical misery the sad end of an absurd diet,
happy and childish candy serve as the basis of nutrition, the major
rice-dish daily watermelon and melon filling in between meals, ice
cream served in cups enormous, spreading the perfume of honeyed snow.

They both spoke sigh of illnesses, who judged incomprehensible, attributing to ignorance of doctors.
Consumption was suddenly attacking the people of the countries abundant.

His life was smelted in a blast of liquid sugar ... And yet guessed Ferragut the disobedience of
the old couple to the disciplines of the regime, its concealment Child tricks to please their
own fruits and syrups, the charm of its existence.

The interview was short. The captain had to return to Grao, where
he waited his transatlantic soon to sail for South America.

The poet cried again, kissing his godson. I would not see more to this giant that seemed to repel
their weak hugs with the bellows of his breath.

- Odysseus, my son ... Valencia always thinking ... Make for it all
you can ... And you know.

Always Valencia!

What he vowed all the poet, not understanding what was expected of him Valencia, ocean simple
wandering the seas.

Labarta wanted to accompany him to the door, but sank into his chair, obedient to the despotism
of his loving companion, who feared for him major catastrophes.

Poor Dona Pepa! ... Ferragut felt like to laugh and to mourn when
receiving a kiss from his mouth wrinkled, whose hair had become spikes.

It was a kiss that recalls old beauty in contact with a handsome, a barren woman kiss caressing
the child might have.

- The unfortunate Carmelo! ... Do not write, and do not read ... Ay! What will become of me?
...

He spoke of the decline of his poet with pity of a strong and healthy. Is terrified to think about
the years he could survive his master.

Who look, not looked upon herself.

A year later, the captain found in Port Said, at the back of the Philippines,
a letter his godfather.

Doña Pepa had died, and Labarta, shaking his tearful stupor of its doldrums, the long goodbye
with a song. Ulysses spent the eyes of the newspaper clipping was within the letter containing
the last verses of the poet. They were verses in Castilian. Bad! ... After that, it was undoubtedly
his approaching end.

He had no opportunity to see him again: he died while traveling.

Upon landing in Barcelona his mother gave him a letter written almost in agony. "Valencia, my
son always Valencia!" And after repeating several times this recommendation, let him know it was his
heir.

The books, statues, all the glorious memories Labarta, went to Barcelona
for decorate the house of the sailor.

Telemachus could entertain the small breaking the old crowns troubadour, tearing pictures of volumes,
with the unconsciousness of a spirited child who his father is far
away and was exposed to two ladies who adore him.

Furthermore, the poet left his godson an old house in Valencia, more land and a certain amount
in marketable securities. Total: thirty thousand dollars.

The other guardian of his childhood, the strong Triton, remained insensitive to the passage of time.
Ferragut met him several times, on arriving at Barcelona, ​​installed in your home, in dull
hostility Dona Cristina, dedicating to Ribbon and her son a part of the care that was previously
only Ulysses.

Steven wanted the little house knew the great-grandparents.

- Did
I leave it?

... You know that back in the Navy men are strong as bronze.

You really leave me? ...

He doubted his influence with the angry gesture of soft Dona Cristina. "Trusting his grandson
the Triton, that instills the love of maritime adventure, like Ulysses?

... Behind blue devil!

The doctor wandered bewildered through the port of Barcelona ... Too much noise, too much movement.
He walked proudly beside Odysseus, making the adventures of his years of ocean tramp and cosmopolitan.
Saw in him the greatest Ferragut: sea man his grandparents, but with capacity; adventurous of all
the oceans as he had been but with a place on the bridge, coated
conferring absolute command responsibility and danger.

To re-embark Ulysses Triton retreating to their domains.

- Next time - said to console to leave without the child of his nephew.

And a few months later he reappeared, bigger and bigger, uglier, more
tanned, with a smile silent words before exploding in Ulysses, the
same as a thundercloud burst in thunder.

Back from a trip to the Black Sea, Mrs Cristina said her son:

- Your uncle is dead.

The pious Christian lady lamented the disappearance of his brother,
spend their prayers, but he insisted with some cruelty in the story
of his sad end.

I could not forgive its fatal intervention in the fate of Ulysses.

Had died as he lived, at sea, victim for his temerity, without confession, as well as a pagan.

Another legacy that fell on Ferragut ... His uncle had been released to swim on a sunny morning
winter, and had not returned.

The older of the coastline explained to her how the accident: a fainting,
a collision with the rocks.

The Dotor was still strong, but the years do not pass without leaving
footprint.

Some believed in a fight with a "pot head" or other carnivorous fish which hunt in the Mediterranean
waters. In vain the fishermen took their boats for all incoming and outgoing angularity of the
promontory, exploring the dark caves and low funds crystalline transparency. Nobody could find
the corpse of Triton.

Ferragut remembered the procession of Aphrodite that the doctor had described so often in the summer
nights in the distance watching the headlights.

Perhaps he had encountered the joyous procession of the Nereids,
by binding to it forever.

This absurd assumption that Ulysses made mentally, incredulous, sad
smile, repeated at the same time just thinking of many people from
the Navy.

They refused to believe in his death. A sorcerer does not drown. Down would have found something
very interesting and when tired of living in the green depths swam back to his house.

No, the Dotor not dead.

And for many years, women who followed the coast at dusk quickened their pace, crossing to distinguish
in the dark waters a tree or a package of seaweed. They feared that arise from Triton soon, bearded,
lewd, dripping, returning from his foray by the mysterious depths
of the sea.

IV

FREYA

The name of Ulises Ferragut began to be famous among the captains of the Spanish ports. Nautical adventures
from the time it came through very little in this popularity. Most of them had braved greatest
dangers, and if he liked, was the instinctive respect Men who feel strong and simple with an
intelligence that considered superior.

No other reading than his career, spoke with awe of the many books Ferragut filled the cabin,
many of them on matters that seemed mysterious. Some even made inaccurate statements to complement
the prestige of his comrade:

- He knows a lot ... In addition to ocean, is a lawyer.

The consideration of his fortune contributed equally to the appreciation. It was a major shareholder
to the shipping company that provided services. Calculated with proud peers exaggerated the wealth
of his mother, tasándola in millions.

Find friends all vessel flying the Spanish flag at the stern, no matter
what its port of origin and the regionalism of his crew.

All he wanted: the Basque captains, sober words, rude and familiarity confianzudo; Asturian
and Galician masters, lovesick and wasteful, that belie its character greed and sadness inland, the
masters in Andalusia, which seem to lead in its funny language reflects
the white light Cádiz and its wines, the captain of Valencia, to talk
politics on the bridge, imagining what could be the future Marine
Republic; Masters of Catalonia and Mallorca, who know the business
as thoroughly as their owners.

Whenever I connected the need to defend their rights, immediately thought Ulysses. None wrote
like him.

The old drivers coming from below, seamen who began his career in
the boats Coastal and barely fit their expertise to the handling of
books, Ferragut spoke proudly

- They say that people are gross sea
... There you have to Don Luis, who is one of us.

They can ask whatever they want ... A wise!

The name of Odysseus made them hesitate. I thought nickname, and not wanting to incur a lack
respect, had finally transformed into Don Luis.

For some, the only defect Ferragut was his good luck. He still had not lost a ship commanded by him. And
all good sailing ocean without rest should be history of these misfortunes to be a full captain.
Only the farmers do not lose ships.

When his mother died, Odysseus was undecided about the future, not
knowing whether to continue his seafaring life or take a brand new
one.

His relatives in Barcelona, ​​merchants agile understanding for evaluation of a fortune, which
amounted to the notary had left and his wife, and adding Labarta and the doctor, just shy of
one million pesetas ... And a man with so much money going to continue
living the same as a poor captain needs salary to maintain his family?

...

His cousin Joaquin Blanes, owner of a knitwear factory, he repeatedly urged to follow their example.
Should stay on the ground and use their capital in Catalan industry. Ulysses was in the country,
by his mother and being born in the neighboring land of Valencia. Needed men of wealth and power
to intervene in government. Blanes was regionalist policy with the enthusiasm of a bourgeois
who is released into fictional adventures.

Tape did not say a word as to her spouse. She was the daughter of a sailor and had accepted be
the wife of another. Also, understand marriage according to family tradition: absolute mistress
women inside the house, but reliant on foreign affairs the will of the Lord, the warrior, the head
of household, without allowing thoughts or objections on their actions.

Ulysses was adopted for himself the decision to leave the seafaring life. Worked by the suggestions
of his cousins, he needed only a little dispute with one of the directors shipowner's house to
offer his resignation, no one could get him to back the requests and explanations of the other
associates.

In the first months of his earthly existence, missed the despairing immobility things. The world
was a disagreeable stiffness and hardness. He felt something akin to a principle faint to see
that everything was still where he left him, without allowing the
lower back and forth, the slightest fantasy dynamics.

In the morning, the half-opening his eyes, he felt the sweet sensation of freedom irresponsibly.
Nothing with the fate of the house. The lives of those who slept on the other floors, above and
below it, were not entrusted to their supervision ... But a few days did he needed something
that was one of the greatest satisfactions of his life: the will
of power, like remote.

Two maids came embarrassed to air their voices and peals of ringing. This was all for he who
had sent dozens of hard rough men that instilled terror down ports.

No one consulted him now, while at sea all sought his advice and often needed to disrupt your
sleep. The house could exist without his daily visit from the caves to the roof, going to the
last tap.

Women who did the cleaning in the morning he was forced to take refuge in the office with their land
broom. Not was allowed to comment, could not extend an arm gallon, same as when scolded the
barefoot and bare-chested grumetería, demanding that the cover is clean as lounge. He felt
dwarfed, exonerated. I thought of Hercules dressed as a woman, spinning her distaff. The love
of family had made him renounce his life of a mighty man.

Only the treatment of his wife, who surrounded himself with assiduous care, as if to compensate
with that of the long separation, he made the situation bearable. And she was satisfied his
conscience by making father "earth", worrying about her son, who began to prepare to join the
Institute, reviewing their books, helping in the understanding of texts.

But these pleasures were not long lasting.

Bored him family gatherings at home and in their relatives, conversations with uncles, cousins
​​and nephews on earnings and businesses or on the defects of centralized tyranny. According to them,
all the calamities of heaven and earth came from Madrid. The governor of the province was the
"consul of Spain. "

These merchants only interrupted their criticism in religious silence to hear the music Wagner struck
on the piano by the children of the family. A friend sang tenor Lohengrin in Catalan. The enthusiasm
was the most excited to roar: "The hymn ... the anthem! " There was no mistaking. For them there
was only one hymn.

And accompanied with a Canturri softly to the liturgical music of The Harvesters.

Ulises recalled with nostalgia his life transatlantic commander: a life wide, worldwide, incessant
and varied horizons, cosmopolitan crowd. It looked stopped on covered by groups of smart girls who
asked new dances in the week. Out his passage fluttering white skirts, veils that flowed like
colored clouds, laughter and trills Spanish speakers in a music that seemed to set in, all the playful
noise of a cage Tropic bird.

Former presidents of the Republic - general or doctors who came to rest to Europe - we had on
the bridge, with a serious Napoleon, the main facts of his story. Men business, to go to America,
he hoped his great plans: rivers changed from river, rail through the jungle, learned monstrous electric
forces cascades of several kilometers wide, the desert cities vomited in a few weeks; all the
wonders of a world in puberty, you want to conceive as her young imagination. It was the demiurge
of small floating world, provided he pleases of joy and love.
In the hot afternoons of the Line, was enough to give an order to
shake the torpor brutish of things and beings. "Let the music up and
serve refreshments." And in a few minutes Couples whirled along the
deck, smiling mouths, eyes lit up in a bright spot of hope and desire.
Behind the praise sounded. Midwives will were very distinguished.
"You see he is a person well." Waiters and crew made a relationship
exaggerated his wealth and his studies. Some young people who sailed
to Europe with imagination in the very hotbed novel, contracted disappointed
to learn that hero was married and had a son. Lonely ladies, lying
on a chaise longue, with volume in hand, managed, and saw him, the
corolla of her skirts, holding legs in such haste that always left
them more exposed. Then, fixing him a deep look, initiated the dialogue,
always the same way:

- How did you come to master, so young?

Ah,
misery! ... He who had lived several years, from one end to another
of the Atlantic, a rich, lively, fragrant, sometimes by resisting
to the vagaries of feminine wisdom, surrendering other with discreet
modesty ocean, was now no other admirers the tribe vulgarota Blanes,
no other illusions that he suggested his cousin, the manufacturer
excited because the great apostles of the party were set on a certain
sympathy with the master.

Every morning, on waking, suffered a rude
shock in their tastes. The first thing that looked room was a "no
personality", a house that had nothing of him, arranged by the Cleaning
maids with neat and lack of logic, constantly changing site of things.

He
recalled with nostalgia his cabin small and tidy, where there was
no furniture to escape his sight for a box whose contents were not
in his memory. His body slid with disengage from custom, through the
passes of the furniture. She had adapted to all incoming and outgoing
angles, such as shellfish flesh is adapted to the inner windings of
their shells. The cabin seemed formed by secretions of his being:
it was a shell, a shell that was with him from one end to another
of the oceans, heated to high temperatures Tropics, closing with an
Eskimo hut caulk the approach to the cold waters.

He inspired a love
like he feels the monk by his cell, but this cell was global, and
enter it after a storm last night on the bridge or from a fall to
land in the various ports, I saw the same thing, with papers and books
still on the table, clothes hanging on the racks, still photographs
on the walls. Changed the daily spectacle of sea and land, changing
the temperature and the course of stars, the people, huddled in winter
coats, white dress in a week and looked to the sky the new star of
the opposite hemisphere ... and your cabin always well, like a corner
of a planet apart, insensitive to variations of this world. You can
see her vitality in her face--as many lives as a cat. But she'd bring infection quicker than
anybody."

"I'll--I'll go at once," cried poor Vickers, turning round. The woman of whom they were speaking
met him on the ladder. Her face was paler than usual, and dark circles round her eyes gave
evidence of a sleepless night. She opened her red lips to speak, and then, seeing Vickers,
stopped abruptly.

"Well, what is it?"

She looked from one to the other. "I came for Dr. Pine."

Vickers, with the quick intelligence of affection, guessed her errand. "Someone is ill?"

"Miss Sylvia, sir. It is nothing to signify, I think. A little feverish and hot, and my mistress--"

Vickers was down the ladder in an instant, with scared face.

Pine caught the girl's round firm arm. "Where have you been?" Two great flakes of red came
out in her white cheeks, and she shot an indignant glance at Blunt.

"Come, Pine, let the wench alone!"

"Were you with the child last night?" went on Pine, without turning his head.

"No; I have not been in the cabin since dinner yesterday. Mrs. Vickers only called me in just
now. Let go my arm, sir, you hurt me."

Pine loosed his hold as if satisfied at the reply. "I beg your pardon," he said gruffly. "I
did not mean to hurt you. But the fever has broken out in the prison, and I think the child
has caught it. You must be careful where you go." And then, with an anxious face, he went in
pursuit of Vickers.

Sarah Purfoy stood motionless for an instant, in deadly terror. Her lips parted, her eyes glittered,
and she made a movement as though to retrace her steps.

"Poor soul!" thought honest Blunt, "how she feels for the child! D---- that lubberly surgeon,
he's hurt her!--Never mind, my lass," he said aloud. It was broad daylight, and he had not
as much courage in love-making as at night. "Don't be afraid. I've been in ships with fever
before now."

Awaking, as it were, at the sound of his voice, she came closer to him. "But ship fever! I
have heard of it! Men have died like rotten sheep in crowded vessels like this."

"Tush! Not they. Don't be frightened; Miss Sylvia won't die, nor you neither." He took her
hand. "It may knock off a few dozen prisoners or so. They are pretty close packed down there--"

She drew her hand away; and then, remembering herself, gave it him again.

"What is the matter?"

"Nothing--a pain. I did not sleep last night."

"There, there; you are upset, I dare say. Go and lie down."

She was staring away past him over the sea, as if in thought. So intently did she look that
he involuntarily turned his head, and the action recalled her to herself. She brought her fine
straight brows together for a moment, and then raised them with the action of a thinker who
has decided on his course of conduct.

"I have a toothache," said she, putting her hand to her face.

"Take some laudanum," says Blunt, with dim recollections of his mother's treatment of such
ailments. "Old Pine'll give you some."

To his astonishment she burst into tears.

"There--there! Don't cry, my dear. Hang it, don't cry. What are you crying about?"

She dashed away the bright drops, and raised her face with a rainy smile of trusting affection.
"Nothing! I am lonely. So far from home; and--and Dr. Pine hurt my arm. Look!"

She bared that shapely member as she spoke, and sure enough there were three red marks on the
white and shining flesh.

"The ruffian!" cried Blunt, "it's too bad." And after a hasty look around him, the infatuated
fellow kissed the bruise. "I'll get the laudanum for you," he said. "You shan't ask that bear
for it. Come into my cabin."

Blunt's cabin was in the starboard side of the ship, just under the poop awning, and possessed
three windows--one looking out over the side, and two upon deck. The corresponding cabin on
the other side was occupied by Mr. Maurice Frere. He closed the door, and took down a small
medicine chest, cleated above the hooks where hung his signal-pictured telescope.

"Here," said he, opening it. "I've carried this little box for years, but it ain't often I
want to use it, thank God. Now, then, put some o' this into your mouth, and hold it there."

"Good gracious, Captain Blunt, you'll poison me! Give me the bottle; I'll help myself."

"Don't take too much," says Blunt. "It's dangerous stuff, you know."

"You need not fear. I've used it before."

The door was shut, and as she put the bottle in her pocket, the amorous captain caught her
in his arms.

"What do you say? Come, I think I deserve a kiss for that."

Her tears were all dry long ago, and had only given increased colour to her face. This agreeable
woman never wept long enough to make herself distasteful. She raised her dark eyes to his for
a moment, with a saucy smile. "By and by," said she, and escaping, gained her cabin. It was
next to that of her mistress, and she could hear the sick child feebly moaning. Her eyes filled
with tears--real ones this time.

"Poor little thing," she said; "I hope she won't die."

And then she threw herself on her bed, and buried her hot head in the pillow. The intelligence
of the fever seemed to have terrified her. Had the news disarranged some well-concocted plan
of hers? Being near the accomplishment of some cherished scheme long kept in view, had the
sudden and unexpected presence of disease falsified her carefully-made calculations, and cast
an almost insurmountable obstacle in her path?

"She die! and through me? How did I know that he had the fever? Perhaps I have taken it myself--I
feel ill." She turned over on the bed, as if in pain, and then started to a sitting position,
stung by a sudden thought. "Perhaps he might die! The fever spreads quickly, and if so, all
this plotting will have been useless. It must be done at once. It will never do to break down
now," and taking the phial from her pocket, she held it up, to see how much it contained. It
was three parts full. "Enough for both," she said, between her set teeth. The action of holding
up the bottle reminded her of the amorous Blunt, and she smiled. "A strange way to show affection
for a man," she said to herself, "and yet he doesn't care, and I suppose I shouldn't by this
time. I'll go through with it, and, if the worst comes to the worst, I can fall back on Maurice."
She loosened the cork of the phial, so that it would come out with as little noise as possible,
and then placed it carefully in her bosom. "I will get a little sleep if I can," she said.
"They have got the note, and it shall be done to-night."

CHAPTER VII. TYPHUS FEVER.

The felon Rufus Dawes had stretched himself in his bunk and tried to sleep. But though he was
tired and sore, and his head felt like lead, he could not but keep broad awake. The long pull
through the pure air, if it had tired him, had revived him, and he felt stronger; but for all
that, the fatal sickness that was on him maintained its hold; his pulse beat thickly, and his
brain throbbed with unnatural heat. Lying in his narrow space--in the semi-darkness--he tossed
his limbs about, and closed his eyes in vain--he could not sleep. His utmost efforts induced
only an oppressive stagnation of thought, through which he heard the voices of his fellow-convicts;
while before his eyes was still the burning Hydaspes--that vessel whose destruction had destroyed
for ever all trace of the unhappy Richard Devine.

It was fortunate for his comfort, perhaps, that the man who had been chosen to accompany him
was of a talkative turn, for the prisoners insisted upon hearing the story of the explosion
a dozen times over, and Rufus Dawes himself had been roused to give the name of the vessel
with his own lips. Had it not been for the hideous respect in which he was held, it is possible
that he might have been compelled to give his version also, and to join in the animated discussion
which took place upon the possibility of the saving of the fugitive crew. As it was, however,
he was left in peace, and lay unnoticed, trying to sleep.

The detachment of fifty being on deck--airing--the prison was not quite so hot as at night,
and many of the convicts made up for their lack of rest by snatching a dog-sleep in the bared
bunks. The four volunteer oarsmen were allowed to "take it out."

As yet there had been no alarm of fever. The three seizures had excited some comment, however,
and had it not been for the counter-excitement of the burning ship, it is possible that Pine's
precaution would have been thrown away. The "Old Hands"--who had been through the Passage before--suspected,
but said nothing, save among themselves. It was likely that the weak and sickly would go first,
and that there would be more room for those remaining. The Old Hands were satisfied.

Three of these Old Hands were conversing together just behind the partition of Dawes's bunk.
As we have said, the berths were five feet square, and each contained six men. No. 10, the
berth occupied by Dawes, was situated on the corner made by the joining of the starboard and
centre lines, and behind it was a slight recess, in which the scuttle was fixed. His "mates"
were at present but three in number, for John Rex and the cockney tailor had been removed to
the hospital. The three that remained were now in deep conversation in the shelter of the recess.
Of these, the giant--who had the previous night asserted his authority in the prison--seemed
to be the chief. His name was Gabbett. He was a returned convict, now on his way to undergo
a second sentence for burglary. The other two were a man named Sanders, known as the "Moocher",
and Jemmy Vetch, the Crow. They were talking in whispers, but Rufus Dawes, lying with his head
close to the partition, was enabled to catch much of what they said.

At first the conversation turned on the catastrophe of the burning ship and the likelihood
of saving the crew. From this it grew to anecdote of wreck and adventure, and at last Gabbett
said something which made the listener start from his indifferent efforts to slumber, into
sudden broad wakefulness.

It was the mention of his own name, coupled with that of the woman he had met on the quarter-deck,
that roused him.

"I saw her speaking to Dawes yesterday," said the giant, with an oath. "We don't want no more
than we've got. I ain't goin' to risk my neck for Rex's woman's fancies, and so I'll tell her."

"It was something about the kid," says the Crow, in his elegant slang. "I don't believe she
ever saw him before. Besides, she's nuts on Jack, and ain't likely to pick up with another man."

"If I thort she was agoin' to throw us over, I'd cut her throat as soon as look at her!" snorts
Gabbett savagely.

"Jack ud have a word in that," snuffles the Moocher; "and he's a curious cove to quarrel with."

"Well, stow yer gaff," grumbled Mr. Gabbett, "and let's have no more chaff. If we're for bizness,
let's come to bizness."

"What are we to do now?" asked the Moocher. "Jack's on the sick list, and the gal won't stir
a'thout him."

"Ay," returned Gabbett, "that's it."

"My dear friends," said the Crow, "my keyind and keristian friends, it is to be regretted that
when natur' gave you such tremendously thick skulls, she didn't put something inside of 'em.
I say that now's the time. Jack's in the 'orspital; what of that? That don't make it no better
for him, does it? Not a bit of it; and if he drops his knife and fork, why then, it's my opinion
that the gal won't stir a peg. It's on his account, not ours, that she's been manoovering,
ain't it?"

"Well!" says Mr. Gabbett, with the air of one who was but partly convinced, "I s'pose it is."

"All the more reason of getting it off quick. Another thing, when the boys know there's fever
aboard, you'll see the rumpus there'll be. They'll be ready enough to join us then. Once get
the snapper chest, and we're right as ninepenn'orth o' hapence."

This conversation, interspersed with oaths and slang as it was, had an intense interest for
Rufus Dawes. Plunged into prison, hurriedly tried, and by reason of his surroundings ignorant
of the death of his father and his own fortune, he had hitherto--in his agony and sullen gloom--held
aloof from the scoundrels who surrounded him, and repelled their hideous advances of friendship.
He now saw his error. He knew that the name he had once possessed was blotted out, that any
shred of his old life which had clung to him hitherto, was shrivelled in the fire that consumed
the "Hydaspes". The secret, for the preservation of which Richard Devine had voluntarily flung
away his name, and risked a terrible and disgraceful death, would be now for ever safe; for
Richard Devine was dead--lost at sea with the crew of the ill-fated vessel in which, deluded
by a skilfully-sent letter from the prison, his mother believed him to have sailed. Richard
Devine was dead, and the secret of his birth would die with him. Rufus Dawes, his alter ego,
alone should live. Rufus Dawes, the convicted felon, the suspected murderer, should live to
claim his freedom, and work out his vengeance; or, rendered powerful by the terrible experience
of the prison-sheds, should seize both, in defiance of gaol or gaoler.

With his head swimming, and his brain on fire, he eagerly listened for more. It seemed as if
the fever which burnt in his veins had consumed the grosser part of his sense, and given him
increased power of hearing. He was conscious that he was ill. His bones ached, his hands burned,
his head throbbed, but he could hear distinctly, and, he thought, reason on what he heard profoundly.

"But we can't stir without the girl," Gabbett said. "She's got to stall off the sentry and
give us the orfice."

The Crow's sallow features lighted up with a cunning smile.

"Dear old caper merchant! Hear him talk!" said he, "as if he had the wisdom of Solomon in all
his glory? Look here!"

And he produced a dirty scrap of paper, over which his companions eagerly bent their heads.

"Where did yer get that?"

"Yesterday afternoon Sarah was standing on the poop throwing bits o' toke to the gulls, and
I saw her a-looking at me very hard. At last she came down as near the barricade as she dared,
and throwed crumbs and such like up in the air over the side. By and by a pretty big lump,
doughed up round, fell close to my foot, and, watching a favourable opportunity, I pouched
it. Inside was this bit o' rag-bag."

"Ah!" said Mr. Gabbett, "that's more like. Read it out, Jemmy."

The writing, though feminine in character, was bold and distinct. Sarah had evidently been
mindful of the education of her friends, and had desired to give them as little trouble as
possible.

"All is right. Watch me when I come up to-morrow evening at three bells. If I drop my handkerchief,
get to work at the time agreed on. The sentry will be safe."

Rufus Dawes, though his eyelids would scarcely keep open, and a terrible lassitude almost paralysed
his limbs, eagerly drank in the whispered sentence. There was a conspiracy to seize the ship.
Sarah Purfoy was in league with the convicts--was herself the wife or mistress of one of them.
She had come on board armed with a plot for his release, and this plot was about to be put
in execution. He had heard of the atrocities perpetrated by successful mutineers. Story after
story of such nature had often made the prison resound with horrible mirth. He knew the characters
of the three ruffians who, separated from him by but two inches of planking, jested and laughed
over their plans of freedom and vengeance. Though he conversed but little with his companions,
these men were his berth mates, and he could not but know how they would proceed to wreak their
vengeance on their gaolers.

True, that the head of this formidable chimera--John Rex, the forger--was absent, but the two
hands, or rather claws--the burglar and the prison-breaker--were present, and the slimly-made,
effeminate Crow, if he had not the brains of the master, yet made up for his flaccid muscles
and nerveless frame by a cat-like cunning, and a spirit of devilish volatility that nothing
could subdue. With such a powerful ally outside as the mock maid-servant, the chance of success
was enormously increased. There were one hundred and eighty convicts and but fifty soldiers.
If the first rush proved successful--and the precautions taken by Sarah Purfoy rendered success
possible--the vessel was theirs. Rufus Dawes thought of the little bright-haired child who
had run so confidingly to meet him, and shuddered.

"There!" said the Crow, with a sneering laugh, "what do you think of that? Does the girl look
like nosing us now?"

"No," says the giant, stretching his great arms with a grin of delight, as one stretches one's
chest in the sun, "that's right, that is. That's more like bizness."

"England, home and beauty!" said Vetch, with a mock-heroic air, strangely out of tune with
the subject under discussion. "You'd like to go home again, wouldn't you, old man?"

Gabbett turned on him fiercely, his low forehead wrinkled into a frown of ferocious recollection.

"You!" he said--"You think the chain's fine sport, don't yer? But I've been there, my young
chicken, and I knows what it means."

There was silence for a minute or two. The giant was plunged in gloomy abstraction, and Vetch
and the Moocher interchanged a significant glance. Gabbett had been ten years at the colonial
penal settlement of Macquarie Harbour, and he had memories that he did not confide to his companions.
When he indulged in one of these fits of recollection, his friends found it best to leave him
to himself.

Rufus Dawes did not understand the sudden silence. With all his senses stretched to the utmost
to listen, the cessation of the whispered colloquy affected him strangely. Old artillery-men
have said that, after being at work for days in the trenches, accustomed to the continued roar
of the guns, a sudden pause in the firing will cause them intense pain. Something of this feeling
was experienced by Rufus Dawes. His faculties of hearing and thinking--both at their highest
pitch--seemed to break down. It was as though some prop had been knocked from under him. No
longer stimulated by outward sounds, his senses appeared to fail him. The blood rushed into
his eyes and ears. He made a violent, vain effort to retain his consciousness, but with a faint
cry fell back, striking his head against the edge of the bunk.

The noise roused the burglar in an instant. There was someone in the berth! The three looked
into each other's eyes, in guilty alarm, and then Gabbett dashed round the partition.

"It's Dawes!" said the Moocher. "We had forgotten him!"

"He'll join us, mate--he'll join us!" cried Vetch, fearful of bloodshed.

Gabbett uttered a furious oath, and flinging himself on to the prostrate figure, dragged it,
head foremost, to the floor. The sudden vertigo had saved Rufus Dawes's life. The robber twisted
one brawny hand in his shirt, and pressing the knuckles down, prepared to deliver a blow that
should for ever silence the listener, when Vetch caught his arm. "He's been asleep," he cried.
"Don't hit him! See, he's not awake yet."

A crowd gathered round. The giant relaxed his grip, but the convict gave only a deep groan,
and allowed his head to fall on his shoulder. "You've killed him!" cried someone.

Gabbett took another look at the purpling face and the bedewed forehead, and then sprang erect,
rubbing at his right hand, as though he would rub off something sticking there.

"He's got the fever!" he roared, with a terror-stricken grimace.

"The what?" asked twenty voices.

"The fever, ye grinning fools!" cried Gabbett. "I've seen it before to-day. The typhus is aboard,
and he's the fourth man down!"

The circle of beast-like faces, stretched forward to "see the fight," widened at the half-uncomprehended,
ill-omened word. It was as though a bombshell had fallen into the group. Rufus Dawes lay on
the deck motionless, breathing heavily. The savage circle glared at his prostrate body. The
alarm ran round, and all the prison crowded down to stare at him. All at once he uttered a
groan, and turning, propped his body on his two rigid arms, and made an effort to speak. But
no sound issued from his convulsed jaws.

"He's done," said the Moocher brutally. "He didn't hear nuffin', I'll pound it."

The noise of the heavy bolts shooting back broke the spell. The first detachment were coming
down from "exercise." The door was flung back, and the bayonets of the guard gleamed in a ray
of sunshine that shot down the hatchway. This glimpse of sunlight--sparkling at the entrance
of the foetid and stifling prison--seemed to mock their miseries. It was as though Heaven laughed
at them. By one of those terrible and strange impulses which animate crowds, the mass, turning
from the sick man, leapt towards the doorway. The interior of the prison flashed white with
suddenly turned faces. The gloom scintillated with rapidly moving hands. "Air! air! Give us air!"

"That's it!" said Sanders to his companions. "I thought the news would rouse 'em."

Gabbett--all the savage in his blood stirred by the sight of flashing eyes and wrathful faces--would
have thrown himself forward with the rest, but Vetch plucked him back.

"It'll be over in a moment," he said. "It's only a fit they've got." He spoke truly. Through
the uproar was heard the rattle of iron on iron, as the guard "stood to their arms," and the
wedge of grey cloth broke, in sudden terror of the levelled muskets.

There was an instant's pause, and then old Pine walked, unmolested, down the prison and knelt
by the body of Rufus Dawes.

The sight of the familiar figure, so calmly performing its familiar duty, restored all that
submission to recognized authority which strict discipline begets. The convicts slunk away
into their berths, or officiously ran to help "the doctor," with affectation of intense obedience.
The prison was like a schoolroom, into which the master had suddenly returned. "Stand back,
my lads! Take him up, two of you, and carry him to the door. The poor fellow won't hurt you."
His orders were obeyed, and the old man, waiting until his patient had been safely received
outside, raised his hand to command attention. "I see you know what I have to tell. The fever
has broken out. That man has got it. It is absurd to suppose that no one else will be seized.
I might catch it myself. You are much crowded down here, I know; but, my lads, I can't help
that; I didn't make the ship, you know."

"'Ear, 'ear!"

"It is a terrible thing, but you must keep orderly and quiet, and bear it like men. You know
what the discipline is, and it is not in my power to alter it. I shall do my best for your
comfort, and I look to you to help me."

Holding his grey head very erect indeed, the brave old fellow passed straight down the line,
without looking to the right or left. He had said just enough, and he reached the door amid
a chorus of "'Ear, 'ear!" "Bravo!" "True for you, docther!" and so on. But when he got fairly
outside, he breathed more freely. He had performed a ticklish task, and he knew it.

"'Ark at 'em," growled the Moocher from his corner, "a-cheerin' at the bloody noos!"

"Wait a bit," said the acuter intelligence of Jemmy Vetch. "Give 'em time. There'll be three
or four more down afore night, and then we'll see!"

CHAPTER VIII. A DANGEROUS CRISIS.

It was late in the afternoon when Sarah Purfoy awoke from her uneasy slumber. She had been
dreaming of the deed she was about to do, and was flushed and feverish; but, mindful of the
consequences which hung upon the success or failure of the enterprise, she rallied herself,
bathed her face and hands, and ascended with as calm an air as she could assume to the poop-deck.

Nothing was changed since yesterday. The sentries' arms glittered in the pitiless sunshine,
the ship rolled and creaked on the swell of the dreamy sea, and the prison-cage on the lower
deck was crowded with the same cheerless figures, disposed in the attitudes of the day before.
Even Mr. Maurice Frere, recovered from his midnight fatigues, was lounging on the same coil
of rope, in precisely the same position.

Yet the eye of an acute observer would have detected some difference beneath this outward varnish
of similarity. The man at the wheel looked round the horizon more eagerly, and spit into the
swirling, unwholesome-looking water with a more dejected air than before. The fishing-lines
still hung dangling over the catheads, but nobody touched them. The soldiers and sailors on
the forecastle, collected in knots, had no heart even to smoke, but gloomily stared at each
other. Vickers was in the cuddy writing; Blunt was in his cabin; and Pine, with two carpenters
at work under his directions, was improvising increased hospital accommodation. The noise of
mallet and hammer echoed in the soldiers' berth ominously; the workmen might have been making
coffins. The prison was strangely silent, with the lowering silence which precedes a thunderstorm;
and the convicts on deck no longer told stories, nor laughed at obscene jests, but sat together,
moodily patient, as if waiting for something. Three men--two prisoners and a soldier--had succumbed
since Rufus Dawes had been removed to the hospital; and though as yet there had been no complaint
or symptom of panic, the face of each man, soldier, sailor, or prisoner, wore an expectant
look, as though he wondered whose turn would come next. On the ship--rolling ceaselessly from
side to side, like some wounded creature, on the opaque profundity of that stagnant ocean--a
horrible shadow had fallen. The Malabar seemed to be enveloped in an electric cloud, whose
sullen gloom a chance spark might flash into a blaze that should consume her.

The woman who held in her hands the two ends of the chain that would produce this spark, paused,
came up upon deck, and, after a glance round, leant against the poop railing, and looked down
into the barricade. As we have said, the prisoners were in knots of four and five, and to one
group in particular her glance was directed. Three men, leaning carelessly against the bulwarks,
watched her every motion.

"There she is, right enough," growled Mr. Gabbett, as if in continuation of a previous remark.
"Flash as ever, and looking this way, too."

"I don't see no wipe," said the practical Moocher.

"Patience is a virtue, most noble knuckler!" says the Crow, with affected carelessness. "Give
the young woman time."

"Blowed if I'm going to wait no longer," says the giant, licking his coarse blue lips. "'Ere
we've been bluffed off day arter day, and kep' dancin' round the Dandy's wench like a parcel
o' dogs. The fever's aboard, and we've got all ready. What's the use o' waitin'? Orfice, or
no orfice, I'm for bizness at once!--"

"--There, look at that," he added, with an oath, as the figure of Maurice Frere appeared side
by side with that of the waiting-maid, and the two turned away up the deck together.

"It's all right, you confounded muddlehead!" cried the Crow, losing patience with his perverse
and stupid companion. "How can she give us the office with that cove at her elbow?"

Gabbett's only reply to this question was a ferocious grunt, and a sudden elevation of his
clenched fist, which caused Mr. Vetch to retreat precipitately. The giant did not follow; and
Mr. Vetch, folding his arms, and assuming an attitude of easy contempt, directed his attention
to Sarah Purfoy. She seemed an object of general attraction, for at the same moment a young
soldier ran up the ladder to the forecastle, and eagerly bent his gaze in her direction.

Maurice Frere had come behind her and touched her on the shoulder. Since their conversation
the previous evening, he had made up his mind to be fooled no longer. The girl was evidently
playing with him, and he would show her that he was not to be trifled with.

"Well, Sarah!"

"Well, Mr. Frere," dropping her hand, and turning round with a smile.

"How well you are looking to-day! Positively lovely!"

"You have told me that so often," says she, with a pout. "Have you nothing else to say?"

"Except that I love you." This in a most impassioned manner.

"That is no news. I know you do."

"Curse it, Sarah, what is a fellow to do?" His profligacy was failing him rapidly. "What is
the use of playing fast and loose with a fellow this way?"

"A 'fellow' should be able to take care of himself, Mr. Frere. I didn't ask you to fall in
love with me, did I? If you don't please me, it is not your fault, perhaps."

"What do you mean?"

"You soldiers have so many things to think of--your guards and sentries, and visits and things.
You have no time to spare for a poor woman like me."

"Spare!" cries Frere, in amazement. "Why, damme, you won't let a fellow spare! I'd spare fast
enough, if that was all." She cast her eyes down to the deck and a modest flush rose in her
cheeks. "I have so much to do," she said, in a half-whisper. "There are so many eyes upon me,
I cannot stir without being seen."

She raised her head as she spoke, and to give effect to her words, looked round the deck. Her
glance crossed that of the young soldier on the forecastle, and though the distance was too
great for her to distinguish his features, she guessed who he was--Miles was jealous. Frere,
smiling with delight at her change of manner, came close to her, and whispered in her ear.
She affected to start, and took the opportunity of exchanging a signal with the Crow.

"I will come at eight o'clock," said she, with modestly averted face.

"They relieve the guard at eight," he said deprecatingly.

She tossed her head. "Very well, then, attend to your guard; I don't care."

"But, Sarah, consider--"

"As if a woman in love ever considers!" said she, turning upon him a burning glance, which
in truth might have melted a more icy man than he. --She loved him then! What a fool he would
be to refuse. To get her to come was the first object; how to make duty fit with pleasure would
be considered afterwards. Besides, the guard could relieve itself for once without his supervision.

"Very well, at eight then, dearest."

"Hush!" said she. "Here comes that stupid captain."

And as Frere left her, she turned, and with her eyes fixed on the convict barricade, dropped
the handkerchief she held in her hand over the poop railing. It fell at the feet of the amorous
captain, and with a quick upward glance, that worthy fellow picked it up, and brought it to her.

"Oh, thank you, Captain Blunt," said she, and her eyes spoke more than her tongue.

"Did you take the laudanum?" whispered Blunt, with a twinkle in his eye.

"Some of it," said she. "I will bring you back the bottle to-night."

Blunt walked aft, humming cheerily, and saluted Frere with a slap on the back. The two men
laughed, each at his own thoughts, but their laughter only made the surrounding gloom seem
deeper than before.

Sarah Purfoy, casting her eyes toward the barricade, observed a change in the position of the
three men. They were together once more, and the Crow, having taken off his prison cap, held
it at arm's length with one hand, while he wiped his brow with the other. Her signal had been
observed.

During all this, Rufus Dawes, removed to the hospital, was lying flat on his back, staring
at the deck above him, trying to think of something he wanted to say.

When the sudden faintness, which was the prelude to his sickness, had overpowered him, he remembered
being torn out of his bunk by fierce hands--remembered a vision of savage faces, and the presence
of some danger that menaced him. He remembered that, while lying on his blankets, struggling
with the coming fever, he had overheard a conversation of vital importance to himself and to
the ship, but of the purport of that conversation he had not the least idea. In vain he strove
to remember--in vain his will, struggling with delirium, brought back snatches and echoes of
sense; they slipped from him again as fast as caught. He was oppressed with the weight of half-recollected
thought. He knew that a terrible danger menaced him; that could he but force his brain to reason
connectedly for ten consecutive minutes, he could give such information as would avert that
danger, and save the ship. But, lying with hot head, parched lips, and enfeebled body, he was
as one possessed--he could move nor hand nor foot.

The place where he lay was but dimly lighted. The ingenuity of Pine had constructed a canvas
blind over the port, to prevent the sun striking into the cabin, and this blind absorbed much
of the light. He could but just see the deck above his head, and distinguish the outlines of
three other berths, apparently similar to his own. The only sounds that broke the silence were
the gurgling of the water below him, and the Tap tap, Tap tap, of Pine's hammers at work upon
the new partition. By and by the noise of these hammers ceased, and then the sick man could
hear gasps, and moans, and mutterings--the signs that his companions yet lived. Is that the girl deserved it all: the light of the brazier discovered
his face animated, his eyes lit rechispeantes, and showed the curly hair, undone by agitation
of the walk, and floating in fancy threads on his forehead, shoulders and neck. Baltasar and
erased in American and fungi, were placed between the jostling crowd and perhaps he whispered
to one hundred thousand blunders, but it was not for bagpipes CAFTA is that was not in the
mood for compliments Amparo, being solely owned by the fervor political.

He felt overwrought, feverish, in days so memorable. Everywhere he pretended his fevered imagination
dangers, struggles, hatched plots to stifle black freedom. Of fixed-fixed the Madrid government
already knew such time that cigarette marinedina performed a heroic unprecedented efforts to hasten
the triumph of federal, and with such thoughts latíale Amparo his little heart and swelled the
bosom agitated. Amid the vulgarity and dullness of daily life and the monotony of work always
identical to itself, such hazards revolutionary were poetry, novel, adventure, blue sky through which
to fly with wings of gold. His fantasy uneducated and spirited was tending them. The emphatic phrases
of the articles, the redundant periods of speeches rang in his ears like the refrain of the waltz
in the child dancer. That arrival of individuals of the Assembly of the Union was to safeguard
what would the Apostles for a people who hear about the Gospel and soon saw arrive on its
shores to announce makers.

Amparo by certain thing was approaching when observed with a fact worthy of Memory: craved,
without declaring itself, using the forces of self-denial and sacrifice that there are latent
in the soul of the woman of the people. Sacrifice for any of those men who came from Cantabria to
predict the redemption immolate himself for the oldest, by uglier, paying capital and some
extraordinary service! Knocking on your door to high at night, say breathlessly that "here comes
the police 'and that is hidden; hidden alleys accompany him to a safe hiding place, put him
in a few hands dollars saved by dint of rolling cigarettes, receiving instead a bundle of proclamations
to divide the next day, with the caveat that "if they are caught, can be counted soul in Purgatory";
distributed by stealth and zeal, and as a reward for so many hardships, risks similar win an expressive
handshake, a look of gratitude for the outlawed .... If heroism temperature is a matter of
moral, Amparo, who was a hundred degrees, perhaps stop shooting for the cause without saying
a peep, and who knows if time would not be included walking her side portrait of Mariana Pineda in
the tables represent the martyrs of freedom .... Happy or unfortunately, what you want, that's
why no reñiremos, times were more comic than tragic, and the laudable efforts of Amparo not won another
crown but martyrdom in the factory were prevented from reading newspapers, manifestos, proclamations
and leaflets, and that she and a few others who spoke and sang live subversive songs related
to the suspended Northern Union, as they say, employment and salary.

-XVIII-

Village Tribune

The Red Circle check the rest, it is not spoken, but the banquet Marineda offers delegates
of Cantrabria and Cantabrialta. You do not have the Red Circle partners as opulent as the Casino
Manufacturers and the Society of Friends, but sobral soul and detachment, as occasion required,
bleed the pockets, pledged, if necessary, to the eyes and leave with
color and present a table that does not embarrass you.

Call to confer with President of the Circle "person of good taste," never needed in the villages
to conduct the formalities, came to the point where the performance of their duties, and gave such skill
that may soon negotiate a loan of silver candlesticks, shopping table, fine china, damask tablecloths
and fresh, whimsical toothpick and amazing cigar.

Which received the go-between rubbed his hands ensuring that the
board chairman would royally ornamented.

- Regia, no sir - said the
president somewhat gloomy -.

Republican, you say.

He declined the organizer of the festival to discuss the adverb, and pleased to have found accessories,
was to seek the main, or food. Coping with joggers and coffee, managed to combine food, wine and ice
cream as it seemed more orthodox and elegant; but he wanted his unhappiness at the last minute
political enthusiasm throw it all away, prompting this federal bodegonero to send 'proof'
of its wines and one baker to send half robust dozen pies, which
fell at the banquet as barbarians in selected piece of classical Latin.

Trifles that history will surely record.

Purpose began food late, and still circulated two herbal soup and puree, when the waiters closed
timber windows and lit the candles on the chandeliers and gas appliances. Then saw himself out of
the vagaries of twilight the table, the long sixty-covered table, with its bright silver, their
bouquets of flowers symmetrically placed, tall bunches of sweet, his trembling jellies, where
the light shimmered as in a lake. The president handed Circle around a look of pride. In truth the
appearance of the banquet was magnificent. Still prevailed in the book the first time: people ate in
moderation and delicacy, bartenders and waiters walked quietly no heels, spoons produced slight
music-over dishes, virginity Tablecloth happy eyes, and taste of the soup fog not totally banished
the fragrant fumes of roses and carnations in the vases. However, to serve the first entry neighbors
began to talk table, and the growing buzz of conversation emboldened the waiters, who walked and
more stout.

Head of the table the old white-bearded, and his noble theatrical figure completed the decoration.
To his right was the president of the Circle and left the speaker's dark face, which, according
to Amparo, "threw terms" hard to understand.

Still other delegates order of respectability, alternating with members of the Board, the press, the
party.

Was gradually heightening the noise and sparking talk of languages, where overflowing and abundance
of the heart. Which, thanks to venerable old age, could be called patriarch, smiling, approving,
agreeing with everyone, while the grim and frowning delegate they are composed his best to
play. The third dish rasa bullet fired against property, capital and the middle class, and the president
of the Circle, skipper and owner facility had to be piqued and shortly afterwards the patriarch
himself was the angry, because I know not what phrases on the right of insurrection and the use
of violent and coercive means. None seemed to the lawful patriarch, in his opinion, love, peace,
fraternity, were the best basis to establish the federal union, not only of Cantabria and Spain,
but the world. Each claimed their reasons, trying to look like the alien Chimera, the discussion
was general involved in her journalists and delegates from the farthest ends the table, someone offered
without being heard, people in low voice exclaimed in a pleading tone: "But hey, gentlemen ...
if you hear a word ...». It was in vain. The core group it was spoken all, of his confused clamor
only highlighted phrases, angry, determined in excel. "That's utopia, utopias fatal .... No, I will convince
you with the story in hand .... Yes, yes, let us honey .... The French Revolution .... It was
another scheme, gentlemen .... Do not confuse the times .... Are you an error .... A fact is no general
law .... That Pi has said .... Cantu is a reactionary .... The baptism of blood .... Infertile
horrors ...». While the controversy lasted, the waiters did not understand to pass the sources
of the roast and pour the champagne .... One of them leaned over the chair and whispered to him not
I know what ... The president stood up to the point and left the
room, followed quickly reentering a group of women.

Under the captains. Penetrated gracefully, wearing a cotton gown and shawl clear Manila bright red
light that attracted the gas, the red rag of the bullfighters. His handkerchief Silk was the
same color, and the right hand holding a huge bouquet of artificial flowers, roses Bengal bloody
hue, covered with long sealing tape, which read in letters the dedication gold. One might say that
was the protecting genius of the place, Elf Circle Red, the white
shawl, scarf, flowers and ribbons gathered in a vibrant chord Scarlet,
like a symphony of fire.

Intrepid girl came forward holding up the field and picking up, with the free arm the shawl, whose
fringes he rained down on the hips.

And as the conspicuous debater, leaving his seat, shew want to take the ex-voto offered the girl
for the sake of the goddess Liberty Amparo swerved and went right to the patriarch. The circle
opened to let pass.

The girl, still holding the field, watching the old man. This, standing with his silver beard and
slightly undulating like the hermits of tragedy, with his bald head
adorned with abundant central tufts es, with his tall, slightly stooped
and, he imagined the old classical adorned with his attributes, crowning
the top of the times.

And the patriarch, in turn, thought see that good-looking the living
symbol of young people.

Both made in his mind thinking of sympathy assaulted them.

- This
guy gets respect as well as a bishop - is said Amparo.

- This girl
seems to Freedom - murmured the patriarch.

Meanwhile, the girl began his peroration. Temblábale voice at the beginning, two or three sometimes
had to move his hand, motionless, his forehead damp, and not knowing what had triggered to the branch,
whose films wriggle like snakes of flame, and coughed to break a knot that tightened the uvula.
Gradually, the rumor of the table, the whisper of the guests more distant, the light from gas
burners that heated the brains, the aroma of wine and Champagne foam, which still seemed to budge
on the bright atmosphere, the drunk, and felt flowing from his lips the words and spoke with affluence,
with aplomb, without cutting or trip. The guests were given the elbow, smiling, speaking through his
teeth a "bravo!, Very good! "To hear that Republican operatives Factory branch offered to the
Assembly that North Union and the Red Circle to test ... and to show respect ... as testimony
that the hearts that beat ... etc. The patriarch's hand was placed on chest, carried it to his
mouth most sincere pleasure, while the debater, stiff and serious, occasionally bowed his head
slowly in approval. Finally, the She ended her speech giving the bouquet to the patriarch and
shouting: "Citizens delegates health and fraternity!

".

Offering the old man took and passed the president, who stayed with her very fist and without what
to do. Amparo companions confused by the sudden silence, looked askance all directions, wondering
the splendor of the table and somewhat surprised that the banquet Republican order was a matter
of both delegates and eat them instead of saving the country.

The patriarch approached Amparo, his cheeks were wrinkled and withered at the time rosy cheekbones.

-
Thanks, nodding stammered daughters senile ...-- -. Thank you, citizens .... Closer, tribune of the
people ... us a fraternal embrace a saint .... Viva la tribune of
the people!

North Union Viva!

- Viva! - All tenderly Amparo stammered, choking -.

Whether you live ... many years! - And old and the girl were two
fingers to break to mourn, and some of the guests laughed Socapa to
see that paternal arm around her neck that youth.

-XIX-

North Union

Beware
if it's hot!

On the hard blue clouds of the horizon is not tainted by the slightest mist, waving streamers, placed
in the Venetian masts around the stronghold of the Puerta del Castillo, and their colors Gayoso
do not detract from the joy radiating from the sky and the loud and cheerful crowd. Bows and waves
green foliage are mast to mast, Dishon and contrasted with the tone of cerulean sky. Amphitheater
in the middle of the stage stood for the Assembly of the Union with its platform to the center
and flanked by two lower, but higher, for the party committees. Well might the Constituent Assembly
of the Union's North Coast Iberian - so named in their official documents - take the stage plump
and satisfied Presidential session and few brief hours had sufficed to lay the foundations of
the great federal union contract; glorious activity, especially compared with phlegm and machaconería
those lazy Constituent Cortes, which took months to write a basic code and final for the nation.

Impetuously walked into the amphitheater the delegation, composed
of the Republican party and youth, a lot of small fry, rural committees,
delegates and all Christian faithful moved out of curiosity wanted
to interfere in the procession.

Hastily, as if it were a being only animated by a single breath of life, and voice had the band that
stunned the environment with more hymns and anthems, overtook the pulsating mass of humanity,
and driven by the compact crowd, flags, wreaths, hesitated as if he were drunk, and as soon
gave stumbled and swayed hither and thither, like tornadoes to stand up straight haughty.
And the houses seem to be talking traffic picture and understand your case, and some rained
flowers, bouquets, wreaths, and others in smaller numbers, closed and bolted, we said they frowned
and put on sullen and serious as he felt the touch of revolutionary waves.

When these came crashing into the bulwark, spread and spilled everywhere. The crowd climbed ladders,
rode on the bridge of the bastions, invaded the boxes commissioners,
and spread topping the neighboring heights, for the trunks of the
masts climbed more than a rogue, bent on dominating the situation.

Majestically entered Assembly his box, and so the delegates took their seats, the tumult subsided
as if by magic, and about twenty thousand people were silent religious. Only be heard out in
some corner of the wide scenario, the melancholy cry proclaiming: "Lemon Water cold, wafers, water,
sugar, water! ". Two photographers, located in the right place to take the view, focused covering
his head with green baize cloth, and their machines seemed the eyes of history, watching the
scene. Almost hear the flight of a fly especially near the presidential box.

They proceeded to the signing and reading of the Union contract. From a distance it looked
in the box a grouping of heads, including the black hair stood out from the debater melodramatic
and gold pince-nez and the Patriarch's snowy beard, shining in the sun like the Jehovah's in
biblical paintings.

Baltasar and Borren were supported on a canvas of parapet, standing on a stone chair, which
allowed them to see what is happening. Both paid attention short, realizing that witnessed an interesting
incident of the Spanish political drama.

- Here is incubated something, man - said Borren leaning toward his friend.

- Obviously, you incubated!

The universal mess ... and hash that will make Spain these gentlemen!

- Man, says no .... Said that they wish to confederate, to make us more uniditos than before ...
Do not you see that this is called the Union?

- Yes, yes, you cut a finger with saliva and then paste!

- A well that a nation is no orange paneled so easily done .... You know what you told me of this
old man ... Patriarch? Look, I explained that it Republican ... There were things in those ancient
times! It was the second in a rich house ... powerful, man! The arrampló mayorazgo all, huh?,
Mimes and finance, and he was a old pigeon of the flogging memory .... Another had been made
misanthropic ... He became then progressive philanthropist, and then federal ... and is a blessed
that embraces all the world, and hear Mass, and is incapable of harming
anyone ... I have him here between ourselves for something pussy ....

-
And that dark ... that of eyeglasses?

- Ah! that ... say is that
those who want to lose the colonies and save the principles: straight
man, geometry .... According to Palacios, who knows, the equation
between logic and absurdity: not for nothing is an engineer.

If to achieve their ideals had to skin them ... Poor skin!

- And
if I had skinned himself?

- Caspita!, The epidermis outside the own
.... However, we are not skeptics, man.

There you to that other ... the black mustache ... which is to the left of the Patriarch. Well
look, man, that has cost him money and aggravation this political masquerade ... emigre, accused,
abused ... and escaped to go to the Mariana ... I do not know how .... There is humor for everything
in this sublunary world .... And to say that when God brings about
girls like that deal politicking in the boys!

In pronouncing these words pointed Borren Amparo, whose red dresses will distinguish the female circle
around her.

- Well, that girl still politicking rather than the bearded ... Do not you know ...?

And the incident of the banquet was discussed, shredded, pierced by the two men's mouths, it adorned
with festoons satirical.

Meanwhile, there was the Union contract, and despite the sun was
not far from the zenith, people clustered and pressed produced unbearable
temperatures, and you could hear cries of this ilk: "We die .-- .--
When we stifle come a little cool! - But, man, Nah, you squeeze us
.-- Hail Mary, how awful .-- Estes Nah, you still .-- For if you do
not see, annoyed: sa figurae we see others? - So even can reach into
a pocket for a handkerchief sad! - Watch the clock if you have felt.

" And the voice of the reader of the Contract was flying atop the sea of ​​heads and the words "sacrosanct
guarantees ... tenets of freedom ... invulnerable rights ... ideal blessed ... honest and free
people ... "dilate in warm and serene environment. A rain flowers came, unexpectedly, to obscure,
and many white doves were released to it, lowering the point the laborious flapping flight, and fell over
the crowd, hampered bound to have long legs. A roaring rocket bucket came snorting Luceria in
all directions, echoing the music, there was a minute of screaming, live, noise and confusion,
and no one noticed that an old man, a waffle, half dragged out of the enclosure and half in
the arms of two men. "He gave an accident," they said as he passed, without adding another
comment.

-XX-

Lad and lass

And the accident, died that same evening, without confession, without regaining the senses.
Was the scorching sun? A thousand times he fell vertically on the skull to Mr. Rosendo in their
times of military life, and we, the island of Cuba pica in order
.... Was to have become to handle wafer chuck prepare for the extraordinary
rate of consumption of those days solemn?

Was it, as some gossips said, the pride of seeing his daughter so
eloquently and bizarre, and so feted by the lords of the Assembly?

Stay for posterity the hard failure, although the latter assumption
seems unfounded, because Mr. Rosendo, far from express satisfaction
when the girl got into such quarrels, broke a few days before his
silence to tell things to the soul searching about it three feet and
lose the cat placement by madness.

Military service had been formed in such a way the character of old, that insubordination was
for him the ugliest crime and its currency, passive obedience, automatic, and so he threatened Amparo,
rolling her eyes and voice fierce stammer, to break a rib if you would read newspapers in
the factory.
 Caution
was forgotten; and those at the back, seeing Jemmy Vetch raised upon the crest of that human
billow which reared its black outline against an indistinct perspective of struggling figures,
responded to his grin of encouragement by rushing furiously forward.

Suddenly a horrible roar like that of a trapped wild beast was heard. The rushing torrent choked
in the doorway, and from out the lantern glow into which the giant had rushed, a flash broke,
followed by a groan, as the perfidious sentry fell back shot through the breast. The mass in
the doorway hung irresolute, and then by sheer weight of pressure from behind burst forward,
and as it so burst, the heavy door crashed into its jambs, and the bolts were shot into their
places.

All this took place by one of those simultaneous movements which are so rapid in execution,
so tedious to describe in detail. At one instant the prison door had opened, at the next it
had closed. The picture which had presented itself to the eyes of the convicts was as momentary
as are those of the thaumatoscope. The period of time that had elapsed between the opening
and the shutting of the door could have been marked by the musket shot.

The report of another shot, and then a noise of confused cries, mingled with the clashing of
arms, informed the imprisoned men that the ship had been alarmed. How would it go with their
friends on deck? Would they succeed in overcoming the guards, or would they be beaten back?
They would soon know; and in the hot dusk, straining their eyes to see each other, they waited
for the issue Suddenly the noises ceased, and a strange rumbling sound fell upon the ears of
the listeners.

          *          *          *          *          *

What had taken place?

This--the men pouring out of the darkness into the sudden glare of the lanterns, rushed, bewildered,
across the deck. Miles, true to his promise, did not fire, but the next instant Vickers had
snatched the firelock from him, and leaping into the stream, turned about and fired down towards
the prison. The attack was more sudden then he had expected, but he did not lose his presence
of mind. The shot would serve a double purpose. It would warn the men in the barrack, and perhaps
check the rush by stopping up the doorway with a corpse. Beaten back, struggling, and indignant,
amid the storm of hideous faces, his humanity vanished, and he aimed deliberately at the head
of Mr. James Vetch; the shot, however, missed its mark, and killed the unhappy Miles.

Gabbett and his companions had by this time reached the foot of the companion ladder, there
to encounter the cutlasses of the doubled guard gleaming redly in the glow of the lanterns.
A glance up the hatchway showed the giant that the arms he had planned to seize were defended
by ten firelocks, and that, behind the open doors of the partition which ran abaft the mizenmast,
the remainder of the detachment stood to their arms. Even his dull intellect comprehended that
the desperate project had failed, and that he had been betrayed. With the roar of despair which
had penetrated into the prison, he turned to fight his way back, just in time to see the crowd
in the gangway recoil from the flash of the musket fired by Vickers. The next instant, Pine
and two soldiers, taking advantage of the momentary cessation of the press, shot the bolts,
and secured the prison.

The mutineers were caught in a trap.

The narrow space between the barracks and the barricade was choked with struggling figures.
Some twenty convicts, and half as many soldiers, struck and stabbed at each other in the crowd.
There was barely elbow-room, and attacked and attackers fought almost without knowing whom
they struck. Gabbett tore a cutlass from a soldier, shook his huge head, and calling on the
Moocher to follow, bounded up the ladder, desperately determined to brave the fire of the watch.
The Moocher, close at the giant's heels, flung himself upon the nearest soldier, and grasping
his wrist, struggled for the cutlass. A brawny, bull-necked fellow next him dashed his clenched
fist in the soldier's face, and the man maddened by the blow, let go the cutlass, and drawing
his pistol, shot his new assailant through the head. It was this second shot that had aroused
Maurice Frere.

As the young lieutenant sprang out upon the deck, he saw by the position of the guard that
others had been more mindful of the safety of the ship than he. There was, however, no time
for explanation, for, as he reached the hatchway, he was met by the ascending giant, who uttered
a hideous oath at the sight of this unexpected adversary, and, too close to strike him, locked
him in his arms. The two men were drawn together. The guard on the quarter-deck dared not fire
at the two bodies that, twined about each other, rolled across the deck, and for a moment Mr.
Frere's cherished existence hung upon the slenderest thread imaginable.

The Moocher, spattered with the blood and brains of his unfortunate comrade, had already set
his foot upon the lowest step of the ladder, when the cutlass was dashed from his hand by a
blow from a clubbed firelock, and he was dragged roughly backwards. As he fell upon the deck,
he saw the Crow spring out of the mass of prisoners who had been, an instant before, struggling
with the guard, and, gaining the cleared space at the bottom of the ladder, hold up his hands,
as though to shield himself from a blow. The confusion had now become suddenly stilled, and
upon the group before the barricade had fallen that mysterious silence which had perplexed
the inmates of the prison.

They were not perplexed for long. The two soldiers who, with the assistance of Pine, had forced-to
the door of the prison, rapidly unbolted that trap-door in the barricade, of which mention
has been made in a previous chapter, and, at a signal from Vickers, three men ran the loaded
howitzer from its sinister shelter near the break of the barrack berths, and, training the
deadly muzzle to a level with the opening in the barricade, stood ready to fire.

"Surrender!" cried Vickers, in a voice from which all "humanity" had vanished. "Surrender,
and give up your ringleaders, or I'll blow you to pieces!"

There was no tremor in his voice, and though he stood, with Pine by his side, at the very mouth
of the levelled cannon, the mutineers perceived, with that acuteness which imminent danger
brings to the most stolid of brains, that, did they hesitate an instant, he would keep his
word. There was an awful moment of silence, broken only by a skurrying noise in the prison,
as though a family of rats, disturbed at a flour cask, were scampering to the ship's side for
shelter. This skurrying noise was made by the convicts rushing to their berths to escape the
threatened shower of grape; to the twenty desperadoes cowering before the muzzle of the howitzer
it spoke more eloquently than words. The charm was broken; their comrades would refuse to join
them. The position of affairs at this crisis was a strange one. From the opened trap-door came
a sort of subdued murmur, like that which sounds within the folds of a sea-shell, but, in the
oblong block of darkness which it framed, nothing was visible. The trap-door might have been
a window looking into a tunnel. On each side of this horrible window, almost pushed before
it by the pressure of one upon the other, stood Pine, Vickers, and the guard. In front of the
little group lay the corpse of the miserable boy whom Sarah Purfoy had led to ruin; and forced
close upon, yet shrinking back from the trampled and bloody mass, crouched in mingled terror
and rage, the twenty mutineers. Behind the mutineers, withdrawn from the patch of light thrown
by the open hatchway, the mouth of the howitzer threatened destruction; and behind the howitzer,
backed up by an array of brown musket barrels, suddenly glowed the tiny fire of the burning
match in the hand of Vickers's trusty servant.

The entrapped men looked up the hatchway, but the guard had already closed in upon it, and
some of the ship's crew--with that carelessness of danger characteristic of sailors--were peering
down upon them. Escape was hopeless.

"One minute!" cried Vickers, confident that one second would be enough--"one minute to go quietly,
or--"

"Surrender, mates, for God's sake!" shrieked some unknown wretch from out of the darkness of
the prison. "Do you want to be the death of us?"

Jemmy Vetch, feeling, by that curious sympathy which nervous natures possess, that his comrades
wished him to act as spokesman, raised his shrill tones. "We surrender," he said. "It's no
use getting our brains blown out." And raising his hands, he obeyed the motion of Vickers's
fingers, and led the way towards the barrack.

"Bring the irons forward, there!" shouted Vickers, hastening from his perilous position; and
before the last man had filed past the still smoking match, the cling of hammers announced
that the Crow had resumed those fetters which had been knocked off his dainty limbs a month
previously in the Bay of Biscay.

In another moment the trap-door was closed, the howitzer rumbled back to its cleatings, and
the prison breathed again.

          *          *          *          *          *

In the meantime, a scene almost as exciting had taken place on the upper deck. Gabbett, with
the blind fury which the consciousness of failure brings to such brute-like natures, had seized
Frere by the throat, determined to put an end to at least one of his enemies. But desperate
though he was, and with all the advantage of weight and strength upon his side, he found the
young lieutenant a more formidable adversary than he had anticipated.

Maurice Frere was no coward. Brutal and selfish though he might be, his bitterest enemies had
never accused him of lack of physical courage. Indeed, he had been--in the rollicking days
of old that were gone--celebrated for the display of very opposite qualities. He was an amateur
at manly sports. He rejoiced in his muscular strength, and, in many a tavern brawl and midnight
riot of his own provoking, had proved the fallacy of the proverb which teaches that a bully
is always a coward. He had the tenacity of a bulldog--once let him get his teeth in his adversary,
and he would hold on till he died. In fact he was, as far as personal vigour went, a Gabbett
with the education of a prize-fighter; and, in a personal encounter between two men of equal
courage, science tells more than strength. In the struggle, however, that was now taking place,
science seemed to be of little value. To the inexperienced eye, it would appear that the frenzied
giant, gripping the throat of the man who had fallen beneath him, must rise from the struggle
an easy victor. Brute force was all that was needed--there was neither room nor time for the
display of any cunning of fence.

But knowledge, though it cannot give strength, gives coolness. Taken by surprise as he was,
Maurice Frere did not lose his presence of mind. The convict was so close upon him that there
was no time to strike; but, as he was forced backwards, he succeeded in crooking his knee round
the thigh of his assailant, and thrust one hand into his collar. Over and over they rolled,
the bewildered sentry not daring to fire, until the ship's side brought them up with a violent
jerk, and Frere realized that Gabbett was below him. Pressing with all the might of his muscles,
he strove to resist the leverage which the giant was applying to turn him over, but he might
as well have pushed against a stone wall. With his eyes protruding, and every sinew strained
to its uttermost, he was slowly forced round, and he felt Gabbett releasing his grasp, in order
to draw back and aim at him an effectual blow. Disengaging his left hand, Frere suddenly allowed
himself to sink, and then, drawing up his right knee, struck Gabbett beneath the jaw, and as
the huge head was forced backwards by the blow, dashed his fist into the brawny throat. The
giant reeled backwards, and, falling on his hands and knees, was in an instant surrounded by
sailors.

Now began and ended, in less time than it takes to write it, one of those Homeric struggles
of one man against twenty, which are none the less heroic because the Ajax is a convict, and
the Trojans merely ordinary sailors. Shaking his assailants to the deck as easily as a wild
boar shakes off the dogs which clamber upon his bristly sides, the convict sprang to his feet,
and, whirling the snatched-up cutlass round his head, kept the circle at bay. Four times did
the soldiers round the hatchway raise their muskets, and four times did the fear of wounding
the men who had flung themselves upon the enraged giant compel them to restrain their fire.
Gabbett, his stubbly hair on end, his bloodshot eyes glaring with fury, his great hand opening
and shutting in air, as though it gasped for something to seize, turned himself about from
side to side--now here, now there, bellowing like a wounded bull. His coarse shirt, rent from
shoulder to flank, exposed the play of his huge muscles. He was bleeding from a cut on his
forehead, and the blood, trickling down his face, mingled with the foam on his lips, and dropped
sluggishly on his hairy breast. Each time that an assailant came within reach of the swinging
cutlass, the ruffian's form dilated with a fresh access of passion. At one moment bunched with
clinging adversaries--his arms, legs, and shoulders a hanging mass of human bodies--at the
next, free, desperate, alone in the midst of his foes, his hideous countenance contorted with
hate and rage, the giant seemed less a man than a demon, or one of those monstrous and savage
apes which haunt the solitudes of the African forests. Spurning the mob who had rushed in at
him, he strode towards his risen adversary, and aimed at him one final blow that should put
an end to his tyranny for ever. A notion that Sarah Purfoy had betrayed him, and that the handsome
soldier was the cause of the betrayal, had taken possession of his mind, and his rage had concentrated
itself upon Maurice Frere. The aspect of the villain was so appalling, that, despite his natural
courage, Frere, seeing the backward sweep of the cutlass, absolutely closed his eyes with terror,
and surrendered himself to his fate.

As Gabbett balanced himself for the blow, the ship, which had been rocking gently on a dull
and silent sea, suddenly lurched--the convict lost his balance, swayed, and fell. Ere he could
rise he was pinioned by twenty hands.

Authority was almost instantaneously triumphant on the upper and lower decks. The mutiny was over.

CHAPTER XI. DISCOVERIES AND CONFESSIONS.

The shock was felt all through the vessel, and Pine, who had been watching the ironing of the
last of the mutineers, at once divined its cause.

"Thank God!" he cried, "there's a breeze at last!" and as the overpowered Gabbett, bruised,
bleeding, and bound, was dragged down the hatchway, the triumphant doctor hurried upon deck
to find the Malabar plunging through the whitening water under the influence of a fifteen-knot
breeze.

"Stand by to reef topsails! Away aloft, men, and furl the royals!" cries Best from the quarter-deck;
and in the midst of the cheery confusion Maurice Frere briefly recapitulated what had taken
place, taking care, however, to pass over his own dereliction of duty as rapidly as possible.

Pine knit his brows. "Do you think that she was in the plot?" he asked.

"Not she!" says Frere--eager to avert inquiry. "How should she be? Plot! She's sickening of
fever, or I'm much mistaken."

Sure enough, on opening the door of the cabin, they found Sarah Purfoy lying where she had
fallen a quarter of an hour before. The clashing of cutlasses and the firing of muskets had
not roused her.

"We must make a sick-bay somewhere," says Pine, looking at the senseless figure with no kindly
glance; "though I don't think she's likely to be very bad. Confound her! I believe that she's
the cause of all this. I'll find out, too, before many hours are over; for I've told those
fellows that unless they confess all about it before to-morrow morning, I'll get them six dozen
a-piece the day after we anchor in Hobart Town. I've a great mind to do it before we get there.
Take her head, Frere, and we'll get her out of this before Vickers comes up. What a fool you
are, to be sure! I knew what it would be with women aboard ship. I wonder Mrs. V. hasn't been
out before now. There--steady past the door. Why, man, one would think you never had your arm
round a girl's waist before! Pooh! don't look so scared--I won't tell. Make haste, now, before
that little parson comes. Parsons are regular old women to chatter"; and thus muttering Pine
assisted to carry Mrs. Vickers's maid into her cabin.

"By George, but she's a fine girl!" he said, viewing the inanimate body with the professional
eye of a surgeon. "I don't wonder at you making a fool of yourself. Chances are, you've caught
the fever, though this breeze will help to blow it out of us, please God. That old jackass,
Blunt, too!--he ought to be ashamed of himself, at his age!"

"What do you mean?" asked Frere hastily, as he heard a step approach. "What has Blunt to say
about her?"

"Oh, I don't know," returned Pine. "He was smitten too, that's all. Like a good many more,
in fact."

"A good many more!" repeated the other, with a pretence of carelessness.

"Yes!" laughed Pine. "Why, man, she was making eyes at every man in the ship! I caught her
kissing a soldier once."

Maurice Frere's cheeks grew hot. The experienced profligate had been taken in, deceived, perhaps
laughed at. All the time he had flattered himself that he was fascinating the black-eyed maid,
the black-eyed maid had been twisting him round her finger, and perhaps imitating his love-making
for the gratification of her soldier-lover. It was not a pleasant thought; and yet, strange
to say, the idea of Sarah's treachery did not make him dislike her. There is a sort of love--if
love it can be called--which thrives under ill-treatment. Nevertheless, he cursed with some
appearance of disgust.

Vickers met them at the door. "Pine, Blunt has the fever. Mr. Best found him in his cabin groaning.
Come and look at him."

The commander of the Malabar was lying on his bunk in the betwisted condition into which men
who sleep in their clothes contrive to get themselves. The doctor shook him, bent down over
him, and then loosened his collar. "He's not sick," he said; "he's drunk! Blunt! wake up! Blunt!"

But the mass refused to move.

"Hallo!" says Pine, smelling at the broken tumbler, "what's this? Smells queer. Rum? No. Eh!
Laudanum! By George, he's been hocussed!"

"Nonsense!"

"I see it," slapping his thigh. "It's that infernal woman! She's drugged him, and meant to
do the same for"--(Frere gave him an imploring look)--"for anybody else who would be fool enough
to let her do it. Dawes was right, sir. She's in it; I'll swear she's in it."

"What! my wife's maid? Nonsense!" said Vickers.

"Nonsense!" echoed Frere.

"It's no nonsense. That soldier who was shot, what's his name?--Miles, he--but, however, it
doesn't matter. It's all over now." "The men will confess before morning," says Vickers, "and
we'll see." And he went off to his wife's cabin.

His wife opened the door for him. She had been sitting by the child's bedside, listening to
the firing, and waiting for her husband's return without a murmur. Flirt, fribble, and shrew
as she was, Julia Vickers had displayed, in times of emergency, that glowing courage which
women of her nature at times possess. Though she would yawn over any book above the level of
a genteel love story; attempt to fascinate, with ludicrous assumption of girlishness, boys
young enough to be her sons; shudder at a frog, and scream at a spider, she could sit throughout
a quarter of an hour of such suspense as she had just undergone with as much courage as if
she had been the strongest-minded woman that ever denied her sex. "Is it all over?" she asked.

"Yes, thank God!" said Vickers, pausing on the threshold. "All is safe now, though we had a
narrow escape, I believe. How's Sylvia?" The child was lying on the bed with her fair hair
scattered over the pillow, and her tiny hands moving restlessly to and fro.

"A little better, I think, though she has been talking a good deal."

The red lips parted, and the blue eyes, brighter than ever, stared vacantly around. The sound
of her father's voice seemed to have roused her, for she began to speak a little prayer: "God
bless papa and mamma, and God bless all on board this ship. God bless me, and make me a good
girl, for Jesus Christ's sake, our Lord. Amen."

The sound of the unconscious child's simple prayer had something awesome in it, and John Vickers,
who, not ten minutes before, would have sealed his own death warrant unhesitatingly to preserve
the safety of the vessel, felt his eyes fill with unwonted tears. The contrast was curious.
From out the midst of that desolate ocean--in a fever-smitten prison ship, leagues from land,
surrounded by ruffians, thieves, and murderers, the baby voice of an innocent child called
confidently on Heaven.

          *          *          *          *          *

Two hours afterwards--as the Malabar, escaped from the peril which had menaced her, plunged
cheerily through the rippling water--the mutineers, by the spokesman, Mr. James Vetch, confessed.

"They were very sorry, and hoped that their breach of discipline would be forgiven. It was
the fear of the typhus which had driven them to it. They had no accomplices either in the prison
or out of it, but they felt it but right to say that the man who had planned the mutiny was
Rufus Dawes."

The malignant cripple had guessed from whom the information which had led to the failure of
the plot had been derived, and this was his characteristic revenge.

CHAPTER XII. A NEWSPAPER PARAGRAPH.

Extracted from the Hobart Town Courier of the 12th November, 1827:--

"The examination of the prisoners who were concerned in the attempt upon the Malabar was concluded
on Tuesday last. The four ringleaders, Dawes Gabbett, Vetch, and Sanders, were condemned to
death; but we understand that, by the clemency of his Excellency the Governor, their sentence
has been commuted to six years at the penal settlement of Macquarie Harbour."

END OF BOOK THE FIRST

BOOK II.--MACQUARIE HARBOUR. 1833.

CHAPTER I. THE TOPOGRAPHY OF VAN DIEMEN'S LAND.

The south-east coast of Van Diemen's Land, from the solitary Mewstone to the basaltic cliffs
of Tasman's Head, from Tasman's Head to Cape Pillar, and from Cape Pillar to the rugged grandeur
of Pirates' Bay, resembles a biscuit at which rats have been nibbling. Eaten away by the continual
action of the ocean which, pouring round by east and west, has divided the peninsula from the
mainland of the Australasian continent--and done for Van Diemen's Land what it has done for
the Isle of Wight--the shore line is broken and ragged. Viewed upon the map, the fantastic
fragments of island and promontory which lie scattered between the South-West Cape and the
greater Swan Port, are like the curious forms assumed by melted lead spilt into water. If the
supposition were not too extravagant, one might imagine that when the Australian continent
was fused, a careless giant upset the crucible, and spilt Van Diemen's land in the ocean. The
coast navigation is as dangerous as that of the Mediterranean. Passing from Cape Bougainville
to the east of Maria Island, and between the numerous rocks and shoals which lie beneath the
triple height of the Three Thumbs, the mariner is suddenly checked by Tasman's Peninsula, hanging,
like a huge double-dropped ear-ring, from the mainland. Getting round under the Pillar rock
through Storm Bay to Storing Island, we sight the Italy of this miniature Adriatic. Between
Hobart Town and Sorrell, Pittwater and the Derwent, a strangely-shaped point of land--the Italian
boot with its toe bent upwards--projects into the bay, and, separated from this projection
by a narrow channel, dotted with rocks, the long length of Bruny Island makes, between its
western side and the cliffs of Mount Royal, the dangerous passage known as D'Entrecasteaux
Channel. At the southern entrance of D'Entrecasteaux Channel, a line of sunken rocks, known
by the generic name of the Actaeon reef, attests that Bruny Head was once joined with the shores
of Recherche Bay; while, from the South Cape to the jaws of Macquarie Harbour, the white water
caused by sunken reefs, or the jagged peaks of single rocks abruptly rising in mid sea, warn
the mariner off shore.

It would seem as though nature, jealous of the beauties of her silver Derwent, had made the
approach to it as dangerous as possible; but once through the archipelago of D'Entrecasteaux
Channel, or the less dangerous eastern passage of Storm Bay, the voyage up the river is delightful.
From the sentinel solitude of the Iron Pot to the smiling banks of New Norfolk, the river winds
in a succession of reaches, narrowing to a deep channel cleft between rugged and towering cliffs.
A line drawn due north from the source of the Derwent would strike another river winding out
from the northern part of the island, as the Derwent winds out from the south. The force of
the waves, expended, perhaps, in destroying the isthmus which, two thousand years ago, probably
connected Van Diemen's Land with the continent has been here less violent. The rounding currents
of the Southern Ocean, meeting at the mouth of the Tamar, have rushed upwards over the isthmus
they have devoured, and pouring against the south coast of Victoria, have excavated there that
inland sea called Port Philip Bay. If the waves have gnawed the south coast of Van Diemen's
Land, they have bitten a mouthful out of the south coast of Victoria. The Bay is a millpool,
having an area of nine hundred square miles, with a race between the heads two miles across.

About a hundred and seventy miles to the south of this mill-race lies Van Diemen's Land, fertile,
fair, and rich, rained upon by the genial showers from the clouds which, attracted by the Frenchman's
Cap, Wyld's Crag, or the lofty peaks of the Wellington and Dromedary range, pour down upon
the sheltered valleys their fertilizing streams. No parching hot wind--the scavenger, if the
torment, of the continent--blows upon her crops and corn. The cool south breeze ripples gently
the blue waters of the Derwent, and fans the curtains of the open windows of the city which
nestles in the broad shadow of Mount Wellington. The hot wind, born amid the burning sand of
the interior of the vast Australian continent, sweeps over the scorched and cracking plains,
to lick up their streams and wither the herbage in its path, until it meets the waters of the
great south bay; but in its passage across the straits it is reft of its fire, and sinks, exhausted
with its journey, at the feet of the terraced slopes of Launceston.

The climate of Van Diemen's Land is one of the loveliest in the world. Launceston is warm,
sheltered, and moist; and Hobart Town, protected by Bruny Island and its archipelago of D'Entrecasteaux
Channel and Storm Bay from the violence of the southern breakers, preserves the mean temperature
of Smyrna; whilst the district between these two towns spreads in a succession of beautiful
valleys, through which glide clear and sparkling streams. But on the western coast, from the
steeple-rocks of Cape Grim to the scrub-encircled barrenness of Sandy Cape, and the frowning
entrance to Macquarie Harbour, the nature of the country entirely changes. Along that iron-bound
shore, from Pyramid Island and the forest-backed solitude of Rocky Point, to the great Ram
Head, and the straggling harbour of Port Davey, all is bleak and cheerless. Upon that dreary
beach the rollers of the southern sea complete their circuit of the globe, and the storm that
has devastated the Cape, and united in its eastern course with the icy blasts which sweep northward
from the unknown terrors of the southern pole, crashes unchecked upon the Huon pine forests,
and lashes with rain the grim front of Mount Direction. Furious gales and sudden tempests affright
the natives of the coast. Navigation is dangerous, and the entrance to the "Hell's Gates" of
Macquarie Harbour--at the time of which we are writing (1833), in the height of its ill-fame
as a convict settlement--is only to be attempted in calm weather. The sea-line is marked with
wrecks. The sunken rocks are dismally named after the vessels they have destroyed. The air
is chill and moist, the soil prolific only in prickly undergrowth and noxious weeds, while
foetid exhalations from swamp and fen cling close to the humid, spongy ground. All around breathes
desolation; on the face of nature is stamped a perpetual frown. The shipwrecked sailor, crawling
painfully to the summit of basalt cliffs, or the ironed convict, dragging his tree trunk to
the edge of some beetling plateau, looks down upon a sea of fog, through which rise mountain-tops
like islands; or sees through the biting sleet a desert of scrub and crag rolling to the feet
of Mount Heemskirk and Mount Zeehan--crouched like two sentinel lions keeping watch over the
seaboard.

CHAPTER II. THE SOLITARY OF "HELL'S GATES".

"Hell's Gates," formed by a rocky point, which runs abruptly northward, almost touches, on
its eastern side, a projecting arm of land which guards the entrance to King's River. In the
middle of the gates is a natural bolt--that is to say, an island-which, lying on a sandy bar
in the very jaws of the current, creates a double whirlpool, impossible to pass in the smoothest
weather. Once through the gates, the convict, chained on the deck of the inward-bound vessel,
sees in front of him the bald cone of the Frenchman's Cap, piercing the moist air at a height
of five thousand feet; while, gloomed by overhanging rocks, and shadowed by gigantic forests,
the black sides of the basin narrow to the mouth of the Gordon. The turbulent stream is the
colour of indigo, and, being fed by numerous rivulets, which ooze through masses of decaying
vegetable matter, is of so poisonous a nature that it is not only undrinkable, but absolutely
kills the fish, which in stormy weather are driven in from the sea. As may be imagined, the
furious tempests which beat upon this exposed coast create a strong surf-line. After a few
days of north-west wind the waters of the Gordon will be found salt for twelve miles up from
the bar. The head-quarters of the settlement were placed on an island not far from the mouth
of this inhospitable river, called Sarah Island.

Though now the whole place is desolate, and a few rotting posts and logs alone remain-mute
witnesses of scenes of agony never to be revived--in the year 1833 the buildings were numerous
and extensive. On Philip's Island, on the north side of the harbour, was a small farm, where
vegetables were grown for the use of the officers of the establishment; and, on Sarah Island,
were sawpits, forges, dockyards, gaol, guard-house, barracks, and jetty. The military force
numbered about sixty men, who, with convict-warders and constables, took charge of more than
three hundred and fifty prisoners. These miserable wretches, deprived of every hope, were employed
in the most degrading labour. No beast of burden was allowed on the settlement; all the pulling
and dragging was done by human beings. About one hundred "good-conduct" men were allowed the
lighter toil of dragging timber to the wharf, to assist in shipbuilding; the others cut down
the trees that fringed the mainland, and carried them on their shoulders to the water's edge.
The denseness of the scrub and bush rendered it necessary for a "roadway," perhaps a quarter
of a mile in length, to be first constructed; and the trunks of trees, stripped of their branches,
were rolled together in this roadway, until a "slide" was made, down which the heavier logs
could be shunted towards the harbour. The timber thus obtained was made into rafts, and floated
to the sheds, or arranged for transportation to Hobart Town. The convicts were lodged on Sarah
Island, in barracks flanked by a two-storied prison, whose "cells" were the terror of the most
hardened. Each morning they received their breakfast of porridge, water, and salt, and then
rowed, under the protection of their guard, to the wood-cutting stations, where they worked
without food, until night. The launching and hewing of the timber compelled them to work up
to their waists in water. Many of them were heavily ironed. Those who died were buried on a
little plot of ground, called Halliday's Island (from the name of the first man buried there),
and a plank stuck into the earth, and carved with the initials of the deceased, was the only
monument vouchsafed him.

Sarah Island, situated at the south-east corner of the harbour, is long and low. The commandant's
house was built in the centre, having the chaplain's house and barracks between it and the
gaol. The hospital was on the west shore, and in a line with it lay the two penitentiaries.
Lines of lofty palisades ran round the settlement, giving it the appearance of a fortified
town. These palisades were built for the purpose of warding off the terrific blasts of wind,
which, shrieking through the long and narrow bay as through the keyhole of a door, had in former
times tore off roofs and levelled boat-sheds. The little town was set, as it were, in defiance
of Nature, at the very extreme of civilization, and its inhabitants maintained perpetual warfare
with the winds and waves.

But the gaol of Sarah Island was not the only prison in this desolate region.

At a little distance from the mainland is a rock, over the rude side of which the waves dash
in rough weather. On the evening of the 3rd December, 1833, as the sun was sinking behind the
tree-tops on the left side of the harbour, the figure of a man appeared on the top of this
rock. He was clad in the coarse garb of a convict, and wore round his ankles two iron rings,
connected by a short and heavy chain. To the middle of this chain a leathern strap was attached,
which, splitting in the form of a T, buckled round his waist, and pulled the chain high enough
to prevent him from stumbling over it as he walked. His head was bare, and his coarse, blue-striped
shirt, open at the throat, displayed an embrowned and muscular neck. Emerging from out a sort
of cell, or den, contrived by nature or art in the side of the cliff, he threw on a scanty
fire, which burned between two hollowed rocks, a small log of pine wood, and then returning
to his cave, and bringing from it an iron pot, which contained water, he scooped with his toil-hardened
hands a resting-place for it in the ashes, and placed it on the embers. It was evident that
the cave was at once his storehouse and larder, and that the two hollowed rocks formed his kitchen.

Having thus made preparations for supper, he ascended a pathway which led to the highest point
of the rock. His fetters compelled him to take short steps, and, as he walked, he winced as
though the iron bit him. A handkerchief or strip of cloth was twisted round his left ankle;
on which the circlet had chafed a sore. Painfully and slowly, he gained his destination, and
flinging himself on the ground, gazed around him. The afternoon had been stormy, and the rays
of the setting sun shone redly on the turbid and rushing waters of the bay. On the right lay
Sarah Island; on the left the bleak shore of the opposite and the tall peak of the Frenchman's
Cap; while the storm hung sullenly over the barren hills to the eastward. Below him appeared
the only sign of life. A brig was being towed up the harbour by two convict-manned boats.

The sight of this brig seemed to rouse in the mind of the solitary of the rock a strain of
reflection, for, sinking his chin upon his hand, he fixed his eyes on the incoming vessel,
and immersed himself in moody thought. More than an hour had passed, yet he did not move. The
ship anchored, the boats detached themselves from her sides, the sun sank, and the bay was
plunged in gloom. Lights began to twinkle along the shore of the settlement. The little fire
died, and the water in the iron pot grew cold; yet the watcher on the rock did not stir. With
his eyes staring into the gloom, and fixed steadily on the vessel, he lay along the barren
cliff of his lonely prison as motionless as the rock on which he had stretched himself.

This solitary man was Rufus Dawes.

CHAPTER III. A SOCIAL EVENING.

In the house of Major Vickers, Commandant of Macquarie Harbour, there was, on this evening
of December 3rd, unusual gaiety.

Lieutenant Maurice Frere, late in command at Maria Island, had unexpectedly come down with
news from head-quarters. The Ladybird, Government schooner, visited the settlement on ordinary
occasions twice a year, and such visits were looked forward to with no little eagerness by
the settlers. To the convicts the arrival of the Ladybird meant arrival of new faces, intelligence
of old comrades, news of how the world, from which they were exiled, was progressing. When
the Ladybird arrived, the chained and toil-worn felons felt that they were yet human, that
the universe was not bounded by the gloomy forests which surrounded their prison, but that
there was a world beyond, where men, like themselves, smoked, and drank, and laughed, and rested,
and were Free. What I
care what thou hast done? ... Were away and my son was at my side ... And not see more! ...
My destiny is to live forever alone! You know I can not be a mother again; I'm sick and can not
give me another child ... And you, you! who has taken away the only I had ...

His imagination produced the most improbable inferences to explain this loss to itself unfair.

- God wants to punish you for your bad life, and why he killed Stephen and kill me slowly to me
... When I wanted to throw his death from the balcony. Still alive because I'm Christian but
what life awaits me! What a life for you if you are truly a father! ... Think your child does
not exist if you had stayed in Naples.

Ferragut was pitiful.

He lowered his head, not the strength to repeat the disordered and
lying protests that had taken the first words of his wife.

"If she knew the whole truth!" He repeated in his mind the voice of remorse.

I thought with horror of what he might say tape to know the extent
of his sin.

Fortunately, knew that it was he who had helped with their help to the murderers of his son ...
And the conviction that never come to know him was to admit his words with a quiet humility: the
humility of one hears criminal charged with a crime by a judge who
ignores other attacks even greater.

Tape finished speaking to a discouraged and gloomy tone. I could not more: his anger subsided,
consumed by her own vehemence. The sobs cut the words. I would not see her husband the same
man as before: the child's body lay between the two.

- I can never love ... What have you done, Ulysses?

What have you done that you have horror? ... When I'm alone, I cry, my sadness is immense,
but I admit my misfortune with resignation as a distant thing that was inevitable ... So I hear
your footsteps and see you go, raises truth. I think my son has died for you, still live if it
had not gone in search yours to remind you that you were his father and that I owed to us ...
And when I think that, you hate, hate you!

... You killed my son! My only consolation is to think that if you are aware, suffer even more
than me.

Ferragut came out of this horrible scene with the conviction that
he must flee.

That house and was not his. Nor was his wife. The memory of the dead filled it all, stood
between him and Film, pushing him, throwing him back into the sea. His ship was the only refuge
for the rest of his life, and should benefit from it as the greatest criminals of past centuries
took refuge in the haven of the monasteries.

Did someone need to download their anger, to find an official to whom to attribute their misfortunes.
Tape had been revealed as a completely new.

Had never suspect much energy of character, passionate vehemence in this obedient young woman
and sweet. Should have a counselor who took advantage of his complaints to speak ill of her husband.

And
he looked at Don Pedro the professor, because he kept a certain prejudice
against him asleep from their days of their courtship.

In addition, it offended him at home with an air noble character, whose virtues served as contrast
to the sins and omissions of the owner home.

Ferragut had the same character all the great runners of affairs: liberal housing and carefree
person; punctilious and suspicious in itself.

- That old geezer - he said - is in love with tape.

It's a platonic love, with him not There is nothing to fear, but I do all the damage that can ...
I shall say a few words.

Don Pedro, who continued their daily visits to console the mother, speaking of the poor Stephen
as if he had been devoting his son and servile smiles to the captain,
found himself tackled by it one afternoon on the staircase landing.

The ocean suddenly aged speaking, emphasizing its physical traits with a strong ugliness. It
seemed at the time his uncle, the Triton.

Made a menacing voice memory of a well-known classical passage teacher. Namesake the old Odysseus,
returning to his palace, was found surrounded by suitors to Penelope,
and had them hanging from a spike by the most virile and painful.

-
Did not you, professor?

... Here I do not see more than one suitor, but swears Ulises hang it on the same side if he
returns to find him at home.

Pedro fled. Deemed interesting to the rugged heroes of the Odyssey,
but in verse and paper.

In reality seemed dangerous brutes. He wrote a letter to Tape which
suspended its visits tell her husband to return to the sea.

This abuse increased the alienation of the wife. Represented an affront to her. After to make him lose
his son, Ulysses scare your only friend.

Captain felt the need to go.

To continue in that hostile environment that exacerbated his remorse, pile on error on error.
Only action he could to forget.

One day Toni said that within hours they were about to leave. Had offered his services to allied
navies to victual the fleet besieging the Dardanelles. The Mare Nostrum transported food, weapons,
ammunition, airplanes.

Toni tries to raise an objection.

It was easy to find travel safer and equally fruitful; could go to America ...

- And my revenge? - Ferragut interrupted -.

The rest of my life I committed to doing everything that is bad to the murderers of my son. The
allies need ships, I give them mine and myself.

Knowing the concerns of his second, added:

- In addition, they pay
well.

These trips are very rewarding ... I get what I ask.

For the first time in his life on board the Mare Nostrum pilot was a gesture of contempt for
the cost of freight.

- I forgot - Ulysses continued, smiling in spite of his sadness -.

This trip flatters your ideal ... Let us work for the Republic.

Went to England, taking its cargo leaving for the Dardanelles. Ferragut wanted to sail alone,
without the protection of the destroyers escorting the ships assembled in convoy.

He knew the Mediterranean. In addition, he was a neutral country and the Spanish flag flying
at the stern of the vessel.

This abuse was not remorse, nor seemed disloyal.

German privateers to prey approaching neutral flaunting flags to
deceive and not flee.

The submarines were hidden behind peaceful sailing, to emerge suddenly beside the fumes without
defense. The procedures felons of old pirates had been raised by the Germanic fleet.

The submarine was not afraid. Relied on the speed of Mare Nostrum and his star.

- And if we leave one to step - said to his mate - that we go to the bow.

I wanted it to be so, to launch the ship on the sub at full speed, spurs.

Mediterranean was no longer the same sea of ​​months before, whose secrets he knew the captain
and I could not live there safely, and in the home of a friend.

Only remained in his cabin the time to sleep. He and Toni spent long hours on the bridge, speaking
without looking, with eyes turned to the sea, watching the moving
surface blue.

All crew members, even those who were within hours of rest, felt the need monitor the same way.

By day, the slightest alarm discovery sent the bow to stern. All waste sea, regardless weeks
before he ran beside the ship's sides, caused now cries for attention
and made many arms extended to point.

The pieces of wood, the empty cans of preserved under the sun shone, bunches of seaweed, a gull
with leaving folded wings rocked by a wave, suggested the submarine
periscope poking at the water.

At night, surveillance was even greater. The danger of the submersible had to add the a collision.
Warships and transports sailed the Halls allies or completely to
dark.

Those who did sentry at the bridge no longer looked at the sea surface and pale phosphorescence.
Probed the horizon, fearing that arose before the way forward black, huge and fast, spewed from
the dark.

If you ever slowed the captain's cabin, came immediately in his memory remember fatal.

- Esteban! ... My son ...

And his eyes filled with tears.

Remorse and anger made him imagine tremendous vengeance. He was convinced that their implementation
was impossible, but served his momentary consolation character of southern predisposed to the
bloodiest claims.

One day, posting the papers left in a suitcase, found the picture of Freya. Seeing bold smile,
his quiet eyes fixed on him, he felt that was made inside a shameful cleavage. He admired the
beauty of this occurrence: a shiver shook her back; emerged in memory of past pleasures ... And
at the same time, there was another Ferragut within it twitched with the Levantine homicidal
violence, which only supports the death revenge.

She was to blame for everything. "Ah ... this! "

He tore the picture, but then was picking up the pieces, and eventually save between papers.

His
anger changed objective. Freya, in fact, was not the main culprit of the death Stephen. He thought
of the other, the false diplomatic, at the Von Kramer had perhaps directed the torpedo that
broke his son ... Would not the devil that you encounter any time?

... What a pleasure to be alone two, face to face!

At last he fled from the solitude of the cabin, which tormented him with the wishes of impotent
revenge. With Toni, atop the ship, he felt better ... And with a humble kindness never met
his second, the goodness of pain and misfortune, talked and talked, enjoying the care of their
single listener, as if telling stories to a circle of wonderful children.

In the Strait of Gibraltar he described the great power supply sent
by the Ocean the Mediterranean, and in that time helped to push the
propeller on the ship.

Without this Atlantic current, the mare nostrum, which lost a lot of atmospheric evaporative
more water than it contributed rains and rivers would dry in a few centuries. Was calculated
I could disappear in four hundred sixty years, leaving traces of their existence as a salt
layer of fifty-two feet thick.

Born in their big breasts and numerous deep freshwater springs on the coast of Asia Minor, Morea,
Dalmatia and southern Italy, received also a considerable contribution Black Sea, because it, unlike
the Mediterranean, with rainfall monopolized and drag rivers of water than lost by evaporation, sent
through the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles in the form of surface
current.

But these inflows, although they were large, lost its importance compared with the renovation of
the ocean current.

Atlantic waters entering the Mediterranean so powerfully, they could not stop course or contrary
winds or the movement of reflux. Sailing ships had to wait sometimes months at a strong wind
that helps them overcome the impetuous mouth Strait.

- That I know very well - said Toni -.

Once, going to Cuba, were in sight of Gibraltar more than fifty days, advancing and losing the
way, until a favorable wind made us overcome the current and out into the great sea.

- The current that - added Ferragut - was one of the causes that precipitated
the decline of the Mediterranean sea in the sixteenth century.

We had to go to the Indies newly discovered and the Catalan sea or the Genoese remained here in
the Straits for weeks struggling with air and water to the contrary, while Galicia, the Basque, French
and English, who had left while its ports were already close to America ... Fortunately, Steam
navigation has us all equal.

Toni silently admired his captain. What I had learned in books that filled his cabin! ...

It was in the Mediterranean where the men had committed first to the waves. The civilization from
India, but Asian people could not make the learning of sailors in a sea where the coast is very
distant from each other and monsoons Indian Ocean blowing six straight
months in one direction and six months in another.

Only to reach the Mediterranean, in their migrations by land, the white man had wanted to be
a sailor. This sea, which compared to others is just a lake dotted with islands, was offered as
a school. Any wind leaving its sails, was sure of arriving at a hospital bank. The sweet breezes
and irregular rotated with the sun certain times of the year. The hurricane crossed the river, but
never fixed. There were no tides. Its ports and steps were not dry, its coasts and islands were
often to so close, who were among them, their land, beloved of heaven, received the sweetest
eyes from the sun.

Ferragut evoked the memory of men who had crossed the sea for centuries as far that history did not
mention them. As only traces of their existence were the nuraghs talayots Sardinia and the Balearic
Islands, giant tables made with blocks, barbarous altars huge boulders, reminiscent of the menhirs
and dolmens Celts the coast of Brittany. These people had gone dark, from island to island, from
the bottom Mediterranean to the Straits, which is its door.

The captain imagined their boats made of tree trunks just trimmed,
moved to paddle, or rather thrust of a shovel, no other help than
a rudimentary sail only ex-tended to blow from astern.

The first Europeans Navy was equal to that of the wild islands of Oceania, who are still currently
in its fleet of logs of islands in the archipelago.

So they had dared to break away from the coast, losing sight of land, venturing into the wilderness
blue, advised of the existence of the humps steamy islands of mountains
marked on the horizon at sunset.

Each advance in the Mediterranean sea this stammering had shown greater audacity and waste of
energy that the discovery of America or the first trip around the world ... These early sailors
threw themselves not to the sea ​​adventures: they were people en masse, taking with them
families and animals. Tribes, Once installed on an island, let loose fragments of his own
life, who came to colonize, through the waves, other land nearby.

Ulysses and his second major disasters thought ignored by history: the storm surprised to exodus
navigator, whole fleets of rude rafts swallowed by the abyss within
minutes, families dying clutching their pets when they were going
to try a new breakthrough in its embryonic civilization.

To get an idea of ​​what were their small boats, fleets recalled Ferragut of the Homeric poems, created
many centuries later. Winds instilled a religious terror sea ​​to
the warriors gathered to fall over Troy. Their ships remained chained
a year in Aulis ports for fear of hostility in the air, and appease
Mediterranean to the gods sacrificed the life of a virgin.

Everything
was danger and mystery in the realm of the waves. The roaring chasms,
crags barked Sirens were singing the pitfalls that were attracted
to his music to craft to disintegrate. There was no particular god
island, no monster, no mage Cyclops or warping of artifice. The terror
was the first god of the seas. The man, before he tamed the elements,
tribute them more superstitious fears.

A material factor was strongly
influenced by changes in the Mediterranean life. The Sandy, moved
to the whim of the currents, ruined the village or climbed to the
top an unexpected prosperity. Famous cities in history were not present
more than streets of debris at the foot of a hill crowned by the remains
of a castle Phoenician, Roman, Byzantine, Saracen, or the time of
the Crusades. In other centuries had been known ports: before its
walls naval battles were fought. Now, from the ruined Acropolis barely
reached to see the Mediterranean as a faint blue band at the end of
the low, marshy plain. Sand had moved the old sea port with a distance
of miles ... By contrast, cities went inland to be places of shipment,
the continued drilling of the waves they would find.

The wickedness
of man had imitated the work of destruction of nature. When a republic
expired maritime republic to another rival, the first thing I thought
was obstructing port sand and stones, in perverting the course of
the water so that it became earthly city, losing their fleets and
their traffic. The Genoese, winners of Pisa, blinded by its port with
the sands of Arno, and the city of the first conquerors Mallorca,
sailors to the Holy Land, the Knights of St. Stephen, guardians of
the Mediterranean, to be passed Pisa's dead, people who know only
by hearsay sea.

- Sand - ended by saying Ferragut - has changed in
the Mediterranean trade routes and historical destinations.

Of the
acts had been to stage the mare nostrum, most famous for Captain was
the unprecedented issuance of almogávares to east, the saga of Roger
de Flor, which he known since childhood by stories of the poet Labarta,
Triton and the poor secretary of people who dreamed at all hours with
the bygone grandeur of the sea in Catalonia.

Everyone talked in months
of the blockade of the Dardanelles. Vessels plying the Mediterranean,
as merchants the war, worked for the major operation military that
was unfolding before Gallipoli. The name of the long dead sea which
separates Europe from Asia was in every mouth. The eyes of humans
converged at this point, as in the remote ages of the Trojan War.

-
We too have been there - Ferragut said proudly -. The Dardanelles
have been for several years in Catalonia and Aragon. Gallipoli was
a city ruled by our Valencian Ramon Muntaner.

And began the story
of the conquest of the East almogávares, romantic odyssey, barbarous
and bloody through the ancient Asian provinces of the Roman Empire,
which only came to end with the founding of a Spanish duchy of Athens
and Neopatras in the city of Pericles and Minerva. Please God, I will
give them to her when we go back--or send her to England if I can. She is a good-hearted girl,
but she wants polishing sadly, I'm afraid."

Just then someone came up the garden path and saluted.

"What is it, Troke?"

"Prisoner given himself up, sir."

"Which of them?"

"Gabbett. He came back to-night."

"Alone?" "Yes, sir. The rest have died--he says."

"What's that?" asked Frere, suddenly interested.

"The bolter I was telling you about--Gabbett, your old friend. He's returned."

"How long has he been out?"

"Nigh six weeks, sir," said the constable, touching his cap.

"Gad, he's had a narrow squeak for it, I'll be bound. I should like to see him."

"He's down at the sheds," said the ready Troke--"a 'good conduct' burglar. You can see him
at once, gentlemen, if you like."

"What do you say, Vickers?"

"Oh, by all means."

CHAPTER IV. THE BOLTER.

It was not far to the sheds, and after a few minutes' walk through the wooden palisades they
reached a long stone building, two storeys high, from which issued a horrible growling, pierced
with shrilly screamed songs. At the sound of the musket butts clashing on the pine-wood flagging,
the noises ceased, and a silence more sinister than sound fell on the place.

Passing between two rows of warders, the two officers reached a sort of ante-room to the gaol,
containing a pine-log stretcher, on which a mass of something was lying. On a roughly-made
stool, by the side of this stretcher, sat a man, in the grey dress (worn as a contrast to the
yellow livery) of "good conduct" prisoners. This man held between his knees a basin containing
gruel, and was apparently endeavouring to feed the mass on the pine logs.

"Won't he eat, Steve?" asked Vickers.

And at the sound of the Commandant's voice, Steve arose.

"Dunno what's wrong wi' 'un, sir," he said, jerking up a finger to his forehead. "He seems
jest muggy-pated. I can't do nothin' wi' 'un."

"Gabbett!"

The intelligent Troke, considerately alive to the wishes of his superior officers, dragged
the mass into a sitting posture.

Gabbett--for it was he--passed one great hand over his face, and leaning exactly in the position
in which Troke placed him, scowled, bewildered, at his visitors.

"Well, Gabbett," says Vickers, "you've come back again, you see. When will you learn sense,
eh? Where are your mates?"

The giant did not reply.

"Do you hear me? Where are your mates?"

"Where are your mates?" repeated Troke.

"Dead," says Gabbett.

"All three of them?"

"Ay."

"And how did you get back?"

Gabbett, in eloquent silence, held out a bleeding foot.

"We found him on the point, sir," said Troke, jauntily explaining, "and brought him across
in the boat. He had a basin of gruel, but he didn't seem hungry."

"Are you hungry?"

"Yes."

"Why don't you eat your gruel?"

Gabbett curled his great lips.

"I have eaten it. Ain't yer got nuffin' better nor that to flog a man on? Ugh! yer a mean lot!
Wot's it to be this time, Major? Fifty?"

And laughing, he rolled down again on the logs.

"A nice specimen!" said Vickers, with a hopeless smile. "What can one do with such a fellow?"

"I'd flog his soul out of his body," said Frere, "if he spoke to me like that!"

Troke and the others, hearing the statement, conceived an instant respect for the new-comer.
He looked as if he would keep his word.

The giant raised his great head and looked at the speaker, but did not recognize him. He saw
only a strange face--a visitor perhaps. "You may flog, and welcome, master," said he, "if you'll
give me a fig o' tibbacky." Frere laughed. The brutal indifference of the rejoinder suited
his humour, and, with a glance at Vickers, he took a small piece of cavendish from the pocket
of his pea-jacket, and gave it to the recaptured convict. Gabbett snatched it as a cur snatches
at a bone, and thrust it whole into his mouth.

"How many mates had he?" asked Maurice, watching the champing jaws as one looks at a strange
animal, and asking the question as though a "mate" was something a convict was born with--like
a mole, for instance.

"Three, sir."

"Three, eh? Well, give him thirty lashes, Vickers."

"And if I ha' had three more," growled Gabbett, mumbling at his tobacco, "you wouldn't ha'
had the chance."

"What does he say?"

But Troke had not heard, and the "good-conduct" man, shrinking as it seemed, slightly from
the prisoner, said he had not heard either. The wretch himself, munching hard at his tobacco,
relapsed into his restless silence, and was as though he had never spoken.

As he sat there gloomily chewing, he was a spectacle to shudder at. Not so much on account
of his natural hideousness, increased a thousand-fold by the tattered and filthy rags which
barely covered him. Not so much on account of his unshaven jaws, his hare-lip, his torn and
bleeding feet, his haggard cheeks, and his huge, wasted frame. Not only because, looking at
the animal, as he crouched, with one foot curled round the other, and one hairy arm pendant
between his knees, he was so horribly unhuman, that one shuddered to think that tender women
and fair children must, of necessity, confess to fellowship of kind with such a monster. But
also because, in his slavering mouth, his slowly grinding jaws, his restless fingers, and his
bloodshot, wandering eyes, there lurked a hint of some terror more awful than the terror of
starvation--a memory of a tragedy played out in the gloomy depths of that forest which had
vomited him forth again; and the shadow of this unknown horror, clinging to him, repelled and
disgusted, as though he bore about with him the reek of the shambles.

"Come," said Vickers, "Let us go back. I shall have to flog him again, I suppose. Oh, this
place! No wonder they call it 'Hell's Gates'."

"You are too soft-hearted, my dear sir," said Frere, half-way up the palisaded path. "We must
treat brutes like brutes."

Major Vickers, inured as he was to such sentiments, sighed. "It is not for me to find fault
with the system," he said, hesitating, in his reverence for "discipline", to utter all the
thought; "but I have sometimes wondered if kindness would not succeed better than the chain
and the cat."

"Your old ideas!" laughed his companion. "Remember, they nearly cost us our lives on the Malabar.
No, no. I've seen something of convicts--though, to be sure, my fellows were not so bad as
yours--and there's only one way. They had reached the verandah now. The rising moon shone softly
on the bay beneath them, and touched with her white light the summit of the Grummet Rock.

"That is the general opinion, I know," returned Vickers. "But consider the life they lead.
Good God!" he added, with sudden vehemence, as Frere paused to look at the bay. "I'm not a
cruel man, and never, I believe, inflicted an unmerited punishment, but since I have been here
ten prisoners have drowned themselves from yonder rock, rather than live on in their misery.
Only three weeks ago, two men, with a wood-cutting party in the hills, having had some words
with the overseer, shook hands with the gang, and then, hand in hand, flung themselves over
the cliff. It's horrible to think of!"

"They shouldn't get sent here," said practical Frere. "They knew what they had to expect. Serve
'em right."

"But imagine an innocent man condemned to this place!"

"I can't," said Frere, with a laugh. "Innocent man be hanged! They're all innocent, if you'd
believe their own stories. Hallo! what's that red light there?"

"Dawes's fire, on Grummet Rock," says Vickers, going in; "the man I told you about. Come in
and have some brandy-and-water, and we'll shut the door in place."

CHAPTER V. SYLVIA.

"Well," said Frere, as they went in, "you'll be out of it soon. You can get all ready to start
by the end of the month, and I'll bring on Mrs. Vickers afterwards."

"What is that you say about me?" asked the sprightly Mrs. Vickers from within. "You wicked
men, leaving me alone all this time!"

"Mr. Frere has kindly offered to bring you and Sylvia after us in the Osprey. I shall, of course,
have to take the Ladybird."

"You are most kind, Mr. Frere, really you are," says Mrs. Vickers, a recollection of her flirtation
with a certain young lieutenant, six years before, tinging her cheeks. "It is really most considerate
of you. Won't it be nice, Sylvia, to go with Mr. Frere and mamma to Hobart Town?"

"Mr. Frere," says Sylvia, coming from out a corner of the room, "I am very sorry for what I
said just now. Will you forgive me?"

She asked the question in such a prim, old-fashioned way, standing in front of him, with her
golden locks streaming over her shoulders, and her hands clasped on her black silk apron (Julia
Vickers had her own notions about dressing her daughter), that Frere was again inclined to laugh.

"Of course I'll forgive you, my dear," he said. "You didn't mean it, I know."

"Oh, but I did mean it, and that's why I'm sorry. I am a very naughty girl sometimes, though
you wouldn't think so" (this with a charming consciousness of her own beauty), "especially
with Roman history. I don't think the Romans were half as brave as the Carthaginians; do you,
Mr. Frere?"

Maurice, somewhat staggered by this question, could only ask, "Why not?"

"Well, I don't like them half so well myself," says Sylvia, with feminine disdain of reasons.
"They always had so many soldiers, though the others were so cruel when they conquered."

"Were they?" says Frere.

"Were they! Goodness gracious, yes! Didn't they cut poor Regulus's eyelids off, and roll him
down hill in a barrel full of nails? What do you call that, I should like to know?" and Mr.
Frere, shaking his red head with vast assumption of classical learning, could not but concede
that that was not kind on the part of the Carthaginians.

"You are a great scholar, Miss Sylvia," he remarked, with a consciousness that this self-possessed
girl was rapidly taking him out of his depth.

"Are you fond of reading?"

"Very."

"And what books do you read?"

"Oh, lots! 'Paul and Virginia', and 'Paradise Lost', and 'Shakespeare's Plays', and 'Robinson
Crusoe', and 'Blair's Sermons', and 'The Tasmanian Almanack', and 'The Book of Beauty', and
'Tom Jones'."

"A somewhat miscellaneous collection, I fear," said Mrs. Vickers, with a sickly smile--she,
like Gallio, cared for none of these things--"but our little library is necessarily limited,
and I am not a great reader. John, my dear, Mr. Frere would like another glass of brandy-and-water.
Oh, don't apologize; I am a soldier's wife, you know. Sylvia, my love, say good-night to Mr.
Frere, and retire."

"Good-night, Miss Sylvia. Will you give me a kiss?"

"No!"

"Sylvia, don't be rude!"

"I'm not rude," cries Sylvia, indignant at the way in which her literary confidence had been
received. "He's rude! I won't kiss you. Kiss you indeed! My goodness gracious!"

"Won't you, you little beauty?" cried Frere, suddenly leaning forward, and putting his arm
round the child. "Then I must kiss you!"

To his astonishment, Sylvia, finding herself thus seized and kissed despite herself, flushed
scarlet, and, lifting up her tiny fist, struck him on the cheek with all her force.

The blow was so sudden, and the momentary pain so sharp, that Maurice nearly slipped into his
native coarseness, and rapped out an oath.

"My dear Sylvia!" cried Vickers, in tones of grave reproof.

But Frere laughed, caught both the child's hands in one of his own, and kissed her again and
again, despite her struggles. "There!" he said, with a sort of triumph in his tone. "You got
nothing by that, you see."

Vickers rose, with annoyance visible on his face, to draw the child away; and as he did so,
she, gasping for breath, and sobbing with rage, wrenched her wrist free, and in a storm of
childish passion struck her tormentor again and again. "Man!" she cried, with flaming eyes,
"Let me go! I hate you! I hate you! I hate you!"

"I am very sorry for this, Frere," said Vickers, when the door was closed again. "I hope she
did not hurt you."

"Not she! I like her spirit. Ha, ha! That's the way with women all the world over. Nothing
like showing them that they've got a master."

Vickers hastened to turn the conversation, and, amid recollections of old days, and speculations
as to future prospects, the little incident was forgotten. But when, an hour later, Mr. Frere
traversed the passage that led to his bedroom, he found himself confronted by a little figure
wrapped in a shawl. It was his childish enemy.

"I've waited for you, Mr. Frere," said she, "to beg pardon. I ought not to have struck you;
I am a wicked girl. Don't say no, because I am; and if I don't grow better I shall never go
to Heaven."

Thus addressing him, the child produced a piece of paper, folded like a letter, from beneath
the shawl, and handed it to him.

"What's this?" he asked. "Go back to bed, my dear; you'll catch cold."

"It's a written apology; and I sha'n't catch cold, because I've got my stockings on. If you
don't accept it," she added, with an arching of the brows, "it is not my fault. I have struck
you, but I apologize. Being a woman, I can't offer you satisfaction in the usual way."

Mr. Frere stifled the impulse to laugh, and made his courteous adversary a low bow.

"I accept your apology, Miss Sylvia," said he.

"Then," returned Miss Sylvia, in a lofty manner, "there is nothing more to be said, and I have
the honour to bid you good-night, sir."

The little maiden drew her shawl close around her with immense dignity, and marched down the
passage as calmly as though she had been Amadis of Gaul himself.

Frere, gaining his room choking with laughter, opened the folded paper by the light of the
tallow candle, and read, in a quaint, childish hand:--

SIR,--I have struck you. I apologize in writing. Your humble servant to command, SYLVIA VICKERS.

"I wonder what book she took that out of?" he said. "'Pon my word she must be a little cracked.
'Gad, it's a queer life for a child in this place, and no mistake."

CHAPTER VI. A LEAP IN THE DARK.

Two or three mornings after the arrival of the Ladybird, the solitary prisoner of the Grummet
Rock noticed mysterious movements along the shore of the island settlement. The prison boats,
which had put off every morning at sunrise to the foot of the timbered ranges on the other
side of the harbour, had not appeared for some days. The building of a pier, or breakwater,
running from the western point of the settlement, was discontinued; and all hands appeared
to be occupied with the newly-built Osprey, which was lying on the slips. Parties of soldiers
also daily left the Ladybird, and assisted at the mysterious work in progress. Rufus Dawes,
walking his little round each day, in vain wondered what this unusual commotion portended.
Unfortunately, no one came to enlighten his ignorance.

A fortnight after this, about the 15th of December, he observed another curious fact. All the
boats on the island put off one morning to the opposite side of the harbour, and in the course
of the day a great smoke arose along the side of the hills. The next day the same was repeated;
and on the fourth day the boats returned, towing behind them a huge raft. This raft, made fast
to the side of the Ladybird, proved to be composed of planks, beams, and joists, all of which
were duly hoisted up, and stowed in the hold of the brig.

This set Rufus Dawes thinking. Could it possibly be that the timber-cutting was to be abandoned,
and that the Government had hit upon some other method of utilizing its convict labour? He
had hewn timber and built boats, and tanned hides and made shoes. Was it possible that some
new trade was to be initiated? Before he had settled this point to his satisfaction, he was
startled by another boat expedition. Three boats' crews went down the bay, and returned, after
a day's absence, with an addition to their number in the shape of four strangers and a quantity
of stores and farming implements. Rufus Dawes, catching sight of these last, came to the conclusion
that the boats had been to Philip's Island, where the "garden" was established, and had taken
off the gardeners and garden produce. Rufus Dawes decided that the Ladybird had brought a new
commandant--his sight, trained by his half-savage life, had already distinguished Mr. Maurice
Frere--and that these mysteries were "improvements" under the new rule. When he arrived at
this point of reasoning, another conjecture, assuming his first to have been correct, followed
as a natural consequence. Lieutenant Frere would be a more severe commandant than Major Vickers.
Now, severity had already reached its height, so far as he was concerned; so the unhappy man
took a final resolution--he would kill himself. Before we exclaim against the sin of such a
determination, let us endeavour to set before us what the sinner had suffered during the past
six years.

We have already a notion of what life on a convict ship means; and we have seen through what
a furnace Rufus Dawes had passed before he set foot on the barren shore of Hell's Gates. But
to appreciate in its intensity the agony he suffered since that time, we must multiply the
infamy of the 'tween decks of the Malabar a hundred fold. In that prison was at least some
ray of light. All were not abominable; all were not utterly lost to shame and manhood. Stifling
though the prison, infamous the companionship, terrible the memory of past happiness--there
was yet ignorance of the future, there was yet hope. But at Macquarie Harbour was poured out
the very dregs of this cup of desolation. The worst had come, and the worst must for ever remain.
The pit of torment was so deep that one could not even see Heaven. There was no hope there
so long as life remained. Death alone kept the keys of that island prison.

Is it possible to imagine, even for a moment, what an innocent man, gifted with ambition, endowed
with power to love and to respect, must have suffered during one week of such punishment? We
ordinary men, leading ordinary lives--walking, riding, laughing, marrying and giving in marriage--can
form no notion of such misery as this. Some dim ideas we may have about the sweetness of liberty
and the loathing that evil company inspires; but that is all. We know that were we chained
and degraded, fed like dogs, employed as beasts of burden, driven to our daily toil with threats
and blows, and herded with wretches among whom all that savours of decency and manliness is
held in an open scorn, we should die, perhaps, or go mad. But we do not know, and can never
know, how unutterably loathsome life must become when shared with such beings as those who
dragged the tree-trunks to the banks of the Gordon, and toiled, blaspheming, in their irons,
on the dismal sandpit of Sarah Island. No human creature could describe to what depth of personal
abasement and self-loathing one week of such a life would plunge him. Even if he had the power
to write, he dared not. As one whom in a desert, seeking for a face, should come to a pool
of blood, and seeing his own reflection, fly--so would such a one hasten from the contemplation
of his own degrading agony. Imagine such torment endured for six years!

Ignorant that the sights and sounds about him were symptoms of the final abandonment of the
settlement, and that the Ladybird was sent down to bring away the prisoners, Rufus Dawes decided
upon getting rid of that burden of life which pressed upon him so heavily. For six years he
had hewn wood and drawn water; for six years he had hoped against hope; for six years he had
lived in the valley of the shadow of Death. He dared not recapitulate to himself what he had
suffered. Indeed, his senses were deadened and dulled by torture. He cared to remember only
one thing--that he was a Prisoner for Life. In vain had been his first dream of freedom. He
had done his best, by good conduct, to win release; but the villainy of Vetch and Rex had deprived
him of the fruit of his labour. Instead of gaining credit by his exposure of the plot on board
the Malabar, he was himself deemed guilty, and condemned, despite his asseverations of innocence.
The knowledge of his "treachery"--for so it was deemed among his associates--while it gained
for him no credit with the authorities, procured for him the detestation and ill-will of the
monsters among whom he found himself. On his arrival at Hell's Gates he was a marked man--a
Pariah among those beings who were Pariahs to all the world beside. Thrice his life was attempted;
but he was not then quite tired of living, and he defended it. This defence was construed by
an overseer into a brawl, and the irons from which he had been relieved were replaced. His
strength--brute attribute that alone could avail him--made him respected after this, and he
was left at peace. At first this treatment was congenial to his temperament; but by and by
it became annoying, then painful, then almost unendurable. Tugging at his oar, digging up to
his waist in slime, or bending beneath his burden of pine wood, he looked greedily for some
excuse to be addressed. He would take double weight when forming part of the human caterpillar
along whose back lay a pine tree, for a word of fellowship. He would work double tides to gain
a kindly sentence from a comrade. In his utter desolation he agonized for the friendship of
robbers and murderers. Then the reaction came, and he hated the very sound of their voices.
He never spoke, and refused to answer when spoken to. He would even take his scanty supper
alone, did his chain so permit him. He gained the reputation of a sullen, dangerous, half-crazy
ruffian. Captain Barton, the superintendent, took pity on him, and made him his gardener. He
accepted the pity for a week or so, and then Barton, coming down one morning, found the few
shrubs pulled up by the roots, the flower-beds trampled into barrenness, and his gardener sitting
on the ground among the fragments of his gardening tools. For this act of wanton mischief he
was flogged. At the triangles his behaviour was considered curious. He wept and prayed to be
released, fell on his knees to Barton, and implored pardon. Barton would not listen, and at
the first blow the prisoner was silent. From that time he became more sullen than ever, only
at times he was observed, when alone, to fling himself on the ground and cry like a child.
It was generally thought that his brain was affected.

When Vickers came, Dawes sought an interview, and begged to be sent back to Hobart Town. This
was refused, of course, but he was put to work on the Osprey. After working there for some
time, and being released from his irons, he concealed himself on the slip, and in the evening
swam across the harbour. He was pursued, retaken, and flogged. Then he ran the dismal round
of punishment. He burnt lime, dragged timber, and tugged at the oar. The heaviest and most
degrading tasks were always his. Shunned and hated by his companions, feared by the convict
overseers, and regarded with unfriendly eyes by the authorities, Rufus Dawes was at the very
bottom of that abyss of woe into which he had voluntarily cast himself. Goaded to desperation
by his own thoughts, he had joined with Gabbett and the unlucky three in their desperate attempt
to escape; but, as Vickers stated, he had been captured almost instantly. He was lamed by the
heavy irons he wore, and though Gabbett--with a strange eagerness for which after events accounted--insisted
that he could make good his flight, the unhappy man fell in the first hundred yards of the
terrible race, and was seized by two volunteers before he could rise again. His capture helped
to secure the brief freedom of his comrades; for Mr. Troke, content with one prisoner, checked
a pursuit which the nature of the ground rendered dangerous, and triumphantly brought Dawes
back to the settlement as his peace-offering for the negligence which had resulted in the loss
of the other four. For this madness the refractory convict had been condemned to the solitude
of the Grummet Rock.

In that dismal hermitage, his mind, preying on itself, had become disordered. He saw visions
and dreamt dreams. He would lie for hours motionless, staring at the sun or the sea. He held
converse with imaginary beings. He enacted the scene with his mother over again. He harangued
the rocks, and called upon the stones about him to witness his innocence and his sacrifice.
He was visited by the phantoms of his early friends, and sometimes thought his present life
a dream. Whenever he awoke, however, he was commanded by a voice within himself to leap into
the surges which washed the walls of his prison, and to dream these sad dreams no more.

In the midst of this lethargy of body and brain, the unusual occurrences along the shore of
the settlement roused in him a still fiercer hatred of life. He saw in them something incomprehensible
and terrible, and read in them threats of an increase of misery. Had he known that the Ladybird
was preparing for sea, and that it had been already decided to fetch him from the Rock and
iron him with the rest for safe passage to Hobart Town, he might have paused; but he knew nothing,
save that the burden of life was insupportable, and that the time had come for him to be rid of it.

In the meantime, the settlement was in a fever of excitement. In less than three weeks from
the announcement made by Vickers, all had been got ready. The Commandant had finally arranged
with Frere as to his course of action. He would himself accompany the Ladybird with the main
body. His wife and daughter were to remain until the sailing of the Osprey, which Mr. Frere--charged
with the task of final destruction--was to bring up as soon as possible. "I will leave you
a corporal's guard, and ten prisoners as a crew," Vickers said. "You can work her easily with
that number." To which Frere, smiling at Mrs. Vickers in a self-satisfied way, had replied
that he could do with five prisoners if necessary, for he knew how to get double work out of
the lazy dogs.

Among the incidents which took place during the breaking up was one which it is necessary to
chronicle. Near Philip's Island, on the north side of the harbour, is situated Coal Head, where
a party had been lately at work. This party, hastily withdrawn by Vickers to assist in the
business of devastation, had left behind it some tools and timber, and at the eleventh hour
a boat's crew was sent to bring away the débris. The tools were duly collected, and the pine
logs--worth twenty-five shillings apiece in Hobart Town--duly rafted and chained. The timber
was secured, and the convicts, towing it after them, pulled for the ship just as the sun sank.
In the general relaxation of discipline and haste, the raft had not been made with as much
care as usual, and the strong current against which the boat was labouring assisted the negligence
of the convicts. The logs began to loosen, and although the onward motion of the boat kept
the chain taut, when the rowers slackened their exertions the mass parted, and Mr. Troke, hooking
himself on to the side of the Ladybird, saw a huge log slip out from its fellows and disappear
into the darkness. Gazing after it with an indignant and disgusted stare, as though it had
been a refractory prisoner who merited two days' "solitary", he thought he heard a cry from
the direction in which it had been borne. He would have paused to listen, but all his attention
was needed to save the timber, and to prevent the boat from being swamped by the struggling
mass at her stern.

The cry had proceeded from Rufus Dawes. From his solitary rock he had watched the boat pass
him and make for the Ladybird in the channel, and he had decided--with that curious childishness
into which the mind relapses on such supreme occasions--that the moment when the gathering
gloom swallowed her up, should be the moment when he would plunge into the surge below him.
The heavily-labouring boat grew dimmer and dimmer, as each tug of the oars took her farther
from him. Presently, only the figure of Mr. Troke in the stern sheets was visible; then that
also disappeared, and as the nose of the timber raft rose on the swell of the next wave, Rufus
Dawes flung himself into the sea.

He was heavily ironed, and he sank like a stone. He had resolved not to attempt to swim, and
for the first moment kept his arms raised above his head, in order to sink the quicker. But,
as the short, sharp agony of suffocation caught him, and the shock of the icy water dispelled
the mental intoxication under which he was labouring, he desperately struck out, and, despite
the weight of his irons, gained the surface for an instant. As he did so, all bewildered, and
with the one savage instinct of self-preservation predominant over all other thoughts, he became
conscious of a huge black mass surging upon him out of the darkness. An instant's buffet with
the current, an ineffectual attempt to dive beneath it, a horrible sense that the weight at
his feet was dragging him down,--and the huge log, loosened from the raft, was upon him, crushing
him beneath its rough and ragged sides. All thoughts of self-murder vanished with the presence
of actual peril, and uttering that despairing cry which had been faintly heard by Troke, he
flung up his arms to clutch the monster that was pushing him down to death. The log passed
completely over him, thrusting him beneath the water, but his hand, scraping along the splintered
side, came in contact with the loop of hide rope that yet hung round the mass, and clutched
it with the tenacity of a death grip. In another instant he got his head above water, and making
good his hold, twisted himself, by a violent effort, across the log.

For a moment he saw the lights from the stern windows of the anchored vessels low in the distance,
Grummet Rock disappeared on his left, then, exhausted, breathless, and bruised, he closed his
eyes, and the drifting log bore him swiftly and silently away into the darkness.

          *          *          *          *          *

At daylight the next morning, Mr. Troke, landing on the prison rock found it deserted. The
prisoner's cap was lying on the edge of the little cliff, but the prisoner himself had disappeared.
Pulling back to the Ladybird, the intelligent Troke pondered on the circumstance, and in delivering
his report to Vickers mentioned the strange cry he had heard the night before. "It's my belief,
sir, that he was trying to swim the bay," he said. "He must ha' gone to the bottom anyhow,
for he couldn't swim five yards with them irons."

Vickers, busily engaged in getting under weigh, accepted this very natural supposition without
question. The prisoner had met his death either by his own act, or by accident. It was either
a suicide or an attempt to escape, and the former conduct of Rufus Dawes rendered the latter
explanation a more probable one. In any case, he was dead. As Mr. Troke rightly surmised, no
man could swim the bay in irons; and when the Ladybird, an hour later, passed the Grummet Rock,
all on board her believed that the corpse of its late occupant was lying beneath the waves
that seethed at its base.

CHAPTER VII. THE LAST OF MACQUARIE HARBOUR.

Rufus Dawes was believed to be dead by the party on board the Ladybird, and his strange escape
was unknown to those still at Sarah Island. Maurice Frere, if he bestowed a thought upon the
refractory prisoner of the Rock, believed him to be safely stowed in the hold of the schooner,
and already half-way to Hobart Town; while not one of the eighteen persons on board the Osprey
suspected that the boat which had put off for the marooned man had returned without him. Indeed
the party had little leisure for thought; Mr. Frere, eager to prove his ability and energy,
was making strenuous exertions to get away, and kept his unlucky ten so hard at work that within
a week from the departure of the Ladybird the Osprey was ready for sea. Mrs. Vickers and the
child, having watched with some excusable regret the process of demolishing their old home,
had settled down in their small cabin in the brig, and on the evening of the 11th of January,
Mr. Bates, the pilot, who acted as master, informed the crew that Lieutenant Frere had given
orders to weigh anchor at daybreak.

At daybreak accordingly the brig set sail, with a light breeze from the south-west, and by
three o'clock in the afternoon anchored safely outside the Gates. Unfortunately the wind shifted
to the north-west, which caused a heavy swell on the bar, and prudent Mr. Bates, having consideration
for Mrs. Vickers and the child, ran back ten miles into Wellington Bay, and anchored there
again at seven o'clock in the morning. The tide was running strongly, and the brig rolled a
good deal. Mrs. Vickers kept to her cabin, and sent Sylvia to entertain Lieutenant Frere. Sylvia
went, but was not entertaining. She had conceived for Frere one of those violent antipathies
which children sometimes own without reason, and since the memorable night of the apology had
been barely civil to him. In vain did he pet her and compliment her, she was not to be flattered
into liking him. "I do not like you, sir," she said in her stilted fashion, "but that need
make no difference to you. You occupy yourself with your prisoners; I can amuse myself without
you, thank you." "Oh, all right," said Frere, "I don't want to interfere"; but he felt a little
nettled nevertheless. On this particular evening the young lady relaxed her severity of demeanour.
Her father away, and her mother sick, the little maiden felt lonely, and as a last resource
accepted her mother's commands and went to Frere. He was walking up and down the deck, smoking.

"Mr. Frere, I am sent to talk to you."

"Are you? All right--go on."

"Oh dear, no. It is the gentleman's place to entertain. Be amusing!"

"Come and sit down then," said Frere, who was in good humour at the success of his arrangements.
"What shall we talk about?"

"You stupid man! As if I knew! It is your place to talk. Tell me a fairy story."

"'Jack and the Beanstalk'?" suggested Frere.

"Jack and the grandmother! Nonsense. Make one up out of your head, you know."

Frere laughed.

"I can't," he said. "I never did such a thing in my life."

"Then why not begin? I shall go away if you don't begin."

Frere rubbed his brows. "Well, have you read--have you read 'Robinson Crusoe?'"--as if the
idea was a brilliant one.

"Of course I have," returned Sylvia, pouting. "Read it?--yes. Everybody's read 'Robinson Crusoe!'"

"Oh, have they? Well, I didn't know; let me see now." And pulling hard at his pipe, he plunged
into literary reflection.

Sylvia, sitting beside him, eagerly watching for the happy thought that never came, pouted
and said, "What a stupid, stupid man you are! I shall be so glad to get back to papa again.
He knows all sorts of stories, nearly as many as old Danny."

"Danny knows some, then?"

"Danny!"--with as much surprise as if she said "Walter Scott!" "Of course he does. I suppose
now," putting her head on one side, with an amusing expression of superiority, "you never heard
the story of the 'Banshee'?"

"No, I never did."

"Nor the 'White Horse of the Peppers'?"

"No."

"No, I suppose not. Nor the 'Changeling'? nor the 'Leprechaun'?" "No."

Sylvia got off the skylight on which she had been sitting, and surveyed the smoking animal
beside her with profound contempt.

"Mr. Frere, you are really a most ignorant person. Excuse me if I hurt your feelings; I have
no wish to do that; but really you are a most ignorant person--for your age, of course."

Maurice Frere grew a little angry. "You are very impertinent, Sylvia," said he.

"Miss Vickers is my name, Lieutenant Frere, and I shall go and talk to Mr. Bates."

Which threat she carried out on the spot; and Mr. Bates, who had filled the dangerous office
of pilot, told her about divers and coral reefs, and some adventures of his--a little apocryphal--in
the China Seas. Frere resumed his smoking, half angry with himself, and half angry with the
provoking little fairy. This elfin creature had a fascination for him which he could not account
for.

However, he saw no more of her that evening, and at breakfast the next morning she received
him with quaint haughtiness.

"When shall we be ready to sail? Mr. Frere, I'll take some marmalade. Thank you."

"I don't know, missy," said Bates. "It's very rough on the Bar; me and Mr. Frere was a soundin'
of it this marnin', and it ain't safe yet."

"Well," said Sylvia, "I do hope and trust we sha'n't be shipwrecked, and have to swim miles
and miles for our lives."

"Ho, ho!" laughed Frere; "don't be afraid. I'll take care of you."

"Can you swim, Mr. Bates?" asked Sylvia.

"Yes, miss, I can."

"Well, then, you shall take me; I like you. Mr. Frere can take mamma. We'll go and live on
a desert island, Mr. Bates, won't we, and grow cocoa-nuts and bread-fruit, and--what nasty
hard biscuits!--I'll be Robinson Crusoe, and you shall be Man Friday. I'd like to live on a
desert island, if I was sure there were no savages, and plenty to eat and drink."

"That would be right enough, my dear, but you don't find them sort of islands every day."

"Then," said Sylvia, with a decided nod, "we won't be ship-wrecked, will we?"

"I hope not, my dear."

"Put a biscuit in your pocket, Sylvia, in case of accidents," suggested Frere, with a grin.

"Oh! you know my opinion of you, sir. Don't speak; I don't want any argument".

"Don't you?--that's right."

"Mr. Frere," said Sylvia, gravely pausing at her mother's cabin door, "if I were Richard the
Third, do you know what I should do with you?"

"No," says Frere, eating complacently; "what would you do?"

"Why, I'd make you stand at the door of St. Paul's Cathedral in a white sheet, with a lighted
candle in your hand, until you gave up your wicked aggravating ways--you Man!"

The picture of Mr. Frere in a white sheet, with a lighted candle in his hand, at the door of
St. Paul's Cathedral, was too much for Mr. Bates's gravity, and he roared with laughter. "She's
a queer child, ain't she, sir? A born natural, and a good-natured little soul."

"When shall we be able to get away, Mr. Bates?" asked Frere, whose dignity was wounded by the
mirth of the pilot.

Bates felt the change of tone, and hastened to accommodate himself to his officer's humour.
"I hopes by evening, sir," said he; "if the tide slackens then I'll risk it; but it's no use
trying it now."

"The men were wanting to go ashore to wash their clothes," said Frere.

"If we are to stop here till evening, you had better let them go after dinner."

"All right, sir," said Bates.

The afternoon passed off auspiciously. The ten prisoners went ashore and washed their clothes.
Their names were James Barker, James Lesly, John Lyon, Benjamin Riley, William Cheshire, Henry
Shiers, William Russen, James Porter, John Fair, and John Rex. This last scoundrel had come
on board latest of all. He had behaved himself a little better recently, and during the work
attendant upon the departure of the Ladybird, had been conspicuously useful. His intelligence
and influence among his fellow-prisoners combined to make him a somewhat important personage,
and Vickers had allowed him privileges from which he had been hitherto debarred. Mr. Frere,
however, who superintended the shipment of some stores, seemed to be resolved to take advantage
of Rex's evident willingness to work. He never ceased to hurry and find fault with him. He
vowed that he was lazy, sulky, or impertinent. It was "Rex, come here! Do this! Do that!" As
the prisoners declared among themselves, it was evident that Mr. Frere had a "down" on the
"Dandy". The day before the Ladybird sailed, Rex--rejoicing in the hope of speedy departure--had
suffered himself to reply to some more than usually galling remark and Mr. Frere had complained
to Vickers. "The fellow's too ready to get away," said he. "Let him stop for the Osprey, it
will be a lesson to him." Vickers assented, and John Rex was informed that he was not to sail
with the first party. His comrades vowed that this order was an act of tyranny; but he himself
said nothing. He only redoubled his activity, and--despite all his wish to the contrary--Frere
was unable to find fault. He even took credit to himself for "taming" the convict's spirit,
and pointed out Rex--silent and obedient--as a proof of the excellence of severe measures.
To the convicts, however, who knew John Rex better, this silent activity was ominous. He returned
with the rest, however, on the evening of the 13th, in apparently cheerful mood. Indeed Mr.
Frere, who, wearied by the delay, had decided to take the whale-boat in which the prisoners
had returned, and catch a few fish before dinner, observed him laughing with some of the others,
and again congratulated himself.

The time wore on. Darkness was closing in, and Mr. Bates, walking the deck, kept a look-out
for the boat, with the intention of weighing anchor and making for the Bar. All was secure.
Mrs. Vickers and the child were safely below. The two remaining soldiers (two had gone with
Frere) were upon deck, and the prisoners in the forecastle were singing. The wind was fair,
and the sea had gone down. In less than an hour the Osprey would be safely outside the harbour.

CHAPTER VIII. THE POWER OF THE WILDERNESS.

The drifting log that had so strangely served as a means of saving Rufus Dawes swam with the
current that was running out of the bay. For some time the burden that it bore was an insensible
one. Exhausted with his desperate struggle for life, the convict lay along the rough back of
this Heaven-sent raft without motion, almost without breath. At length a violent shock awoke
him to consciousness, and he perceived that the log had become stranded on a sandy point, the
extremity of which was lost in darkness. Painfully raising himself from his uncomfortable posture,
he staggered to his feet, and crawling a few paces up the beach, flung himself upon the ground
and slept.

When morning dawned, he recognized his position. The log had, in passing under the lee of Philip's
Island, been cast upon the southern point of Coal Head; some three hundred yards from him were
the mutilated sheds of the coal gang. For some time he lay still, basking in the warm rays
of the rising sun, and scarcely caring to move his bruised and shattered limbs. The sensation
of rest was so exquisite, that it overpowered all other considerations, and he did not even
trouble himself to conjecture the reason for the apparent desertion of the huts close by him.
If there was no one there--well and good. If the coal party had not gone, he would be discovered
in a few moments, and brought back to his island prison. In his exhaustion and misery, he accepted
the alternative and slept again.

As he laid down his aching head, Mr. Troke was reporting his death to Vickers, and while he
still slept, the Ladybird, on her way out, passed him so closely that any one on board her
might, with a good glass, have espied his slumbering figure as it lay upon the sand.

When he woke it was past midday, and the sun poured its full rays upon him. His clothes were
dry in all places, save the side on which he had been lying, and he rose to his feet refreshed
by his long sleep. He scarcely comprehended, as yet, his true position. He had escaped, it
was true, but not for long. He was versed in the history of escapes, and knew that a man alone
on that barren coast was face to face with starvation or recapture. Glancing up at the sun,
he wondered indeed, how it was that he had been free so long. Then the coal sheds caught his
eye, and he understood that they were untenanted. This astonished him, and he began to tremble
with vague apprehension. Entering, he looked around, expecting every moment to see some lurking
constable, or armed soldier. Suddenly his glance fell upon the food rations which lay in the
corner where the departing convicts had flung them the night before. At such a moment, this
discovery seemed like a direct revelation from Heaven. He would not have been surprised had
they disappeared. Had he lived in another age, he would have looked round for the angel who
had brought them.

By and by, having eaten of this miraculous provender, the poor creature began--reckoning by
his convict experience--to understand what had taken place. The coal workings were abandoned;
the new Commandant had probably other work for his beasts of burden to execute, and an absconder
would be safe here for a few hours at least. But he must not stay. For him there was no rest.
If he thought to escape, it behoved him to commence his journey at once. As he contemplated
the meat and bread, something like a ray of hope entered his gloomy soul. Here was provision
for his needs. The food before him represented the rations of six men. Was it not possible
to cross the desert that lay between him and freedom on such fare? The very supposition made
his heart beat faster. It surely was possible. He must husband his resources; walk much and
eat little; spread out the food for one day into the food for three. Here was six men's food
for one day, or one man's food for six days. He would live on a third of this, and he would
have rations for eighteen days. Eighteen days! What could he not do in eighteen days? He could
walk thirty miles a day--forty miles a day--that would be six hundred miles and more. Yet stay;
he must not be too sanguine; the road was difficult; the scrub was in places impenetrable.
He would have to make détours, and turn upon his tracks, to waste precious time. He would be
moderate, and say twenty miles a day. Twenty miles a day was very easy walking. Taking a piece
of stick from the ground, he made the calculation in the sand. Eighteen days, and twenty miles
a day--three hundred and sixty miles. More than enough to take him to freedom. It could be
done! With prudence, it could be done! He must be careful and abstemious! Abstemious! He had
already eaten too much, and he hastily pulled a barely-tasted piece of meat from his mouth,
and replaced it with the rest. The action which at any other time would have seemed disgusting,
was, in the case of this poor creature, merely pitiable.

Having come to this resolution, the next thing was to disencumber himself of his irons. This
was more easily done than he expected. He found in the shed an iron gad, and with that and
a stone he drove out the rivets. The rings were too strong to be "ovalled", * or he would have
been free long ago. He packed the meat and bread together, and then pushing the gad into his
belt--it might be needed as a weapon of defence--he set out on his journey.

     * Ovalled--"To oval" is a term in use among convicts, and
     means so to bend the round ring of the ankle fetter that the
     heel can be drawn up through it.

His intention was to get round the settlement to the coast, reach the settled districts, and,
by some tale of shipwreck or of wandering, procure assistance. As to what was particularly
to be done when he found himself among free men, he did not pause to consider. At that point
his difficulties seemed to him to end. Let him but traverse the desert that was before him,
and he would trust to his own ingenuity, or the chance of fortune, to avert suspicion. The
peril of immediate detection was so imminent that, beside it, all other fears were dwarfed
into insignificance.

Before dawn next morning he had travelled ten miles, and by husbanding his food, he succeeded
by the night of the fourth day in accomplishing forty more. Footsore and weary, he lay in a
thicket of the thorny melaleuca, and felt at last that he was beyond pursuit. The next day
he advanced more slowly. The bush was unpropitious. Dense scrub and savage jungle impeded his
path; barren and stony mountain ranges arose before him. He was lost in gullies, entangled
in thickets, bewildered in morasses. The sea that had hitherto gleamed, salt, glittering, and
hungry upon his right hand, now shifted to his left. He had mistaken his course, and he must
turn again. For two days did this bewilderment last, and on the third he came to a mighty cliff
that pierced with its blunt pinnacle the clustering bush. He must go over or round this obstacle,
and he decided to go round it. A natural pathway wound about its foot. Here and there branches
were broken, and it seemed to the poor wretch, fainting under the weight of his lessening burden,
that his were not the first footsteps which had trodden there. The path terminated in a glade,
and at the bottom of this glade was something that fluttered. Rufus Dawes pressed forward,
and stumbled over a corpse!

In the terrible stillness of that solitary place he felt suddenly as though a voice had called
to him. All the hideous fantastic tales of murder which he had read or heard seemed to take
visible shape in the person of the loathly carcase before him, clad in the yellow dress of
a convict, and lying flung together on the ground as though struck down. Stooping over it,
impelled by an irresistible impulse to know the worst, he found the body was mangled. One arm
was missing, and the skull had been beaten in by some heavy instrument! The first thought--that
this heap of rags and bones was a mute witness to the folly of his own undertaking, the corpse
of some starved absconder--gave place to a second more horrible suspicion. He recognized the
number imprinted on the coarse cloth as that which had designated the younger of the two men
who had escaped with Gabbett. He was standing on the place where a murder had been committed!
A murder!--and what else? Thank God the food he carried was not yet exhausted! He turned and
fled, looking back fearfully as he went. He could not breathe in the shadow of that awful mountain.

Crashing through scrub and brake, torn, bleeding, and wild with terror, he reached a spur on
the range, and looked around him. Above him rose the iron hills, below him lay the panorama
of the bush. The white cone of the Frenchman's Cap was on his right hand, on his left a succession
of ranges seemed to bar further progress. A gleam, as of a lake, streaked the eastward. Gigantic
pine trees reared their graceful heads against the opal of the evening sky, and at their feet
the dense scrub through which he had so painfully toiled, spread without break and without
flaw. It seemed as though he could leap from where he stood upon a solid mass of tree-tops.
He raised his eyes, and right against him, like a long dull sword, lay the narrow steel-blue
reach of the harbour from which he had escaped. One darker speck moved on the dark water. It
was the Osprey making for the Gates. It seemed that he could throw a stone upon her deck. A
faint cry of rage escaped him. During the last three days in the bush he must have retraced
his steps, and returned upon his own track to the settlement! 

Paraguay River and the people Curumias and CAAC.

We continued our sailing eight days, and gave in a river, and then in the town of Curumias, which is many
Indians who are kept for hunting and fishing, and make wine from locust, [15] (Which the Germans
call joannesbrot). These people tried to serve us all, and gave us as needed with pleasure, in
three days we were there. Men and women of great stature: some bring in an agugerillo nose,
in which put a pen gallantry parrot, and the other is painted blue face with roots that are
never removed, and bring cotton cloth from the waist to the knees.
Mepenes distance of 40 leagues.

From there we went to the Agac, who also kept hunting and fishing. Indian men and women are high,
and these are painted and cover as the background. Recibiéronnos of war, wanting impede the journey,
and can not reduce them to reason, we fought with them in water and land and killed many:
of us died 15. Do not take anything because the time to fight wives and children had retired, and
hid the supplies and how much they had. These Agac are stubborn warriors in water, earth. Then
tell what happened: the village is Curumias of 35 leagues.

It is situated near the river Jepido, [16] that the other side has
the Paraguay River, which descends from the mountains of Peru, near
the Xarayes.

CHAPTER XX.

Carios peoples.

From these towns we pass to those of the caries, which are 50 miles of Agac where found much corn
and cotton. Indians eat sweet potato roots, they know to apples, and cassava that tastes chestnuts
that make beer (mandel-bee-re). They also fish meat, pigs, ostriches, sheep, Indian, as big
as mules, goats, chickens, rabbits, and other things of this kind. There is honey in abundance,
they also make wine, cooking it.

It is so long the land inhabited by the caries, which is 300 miles wide and long. The Indians are
small and fat, and more work than others. Bring a agugerillo in lips, and a crystal fawn on him,
called in their language tembetá, two feet long, and the thickness of a goose cannon: go naked
like pigs. Use including selling fathers to daughters, husbands to the women, and sometimes
brothers to sisters; and the value of India is a shirt or knife, or hocecilla, or something similar.
Eat meat even human, if they can acquire. To kill the captives in war, whether men or wives,
young men or old, and as we kill the pigs.

Preserved for some years an Indian recommended age and trace, but
it will accommodate the wishes of all, they kill and eat to treat,
as famous as that of our wedding, but if gives pleasure to all, and
grow old keep it until she dies.

Carios make these journeys longer than the other Indians Rio de la
Plata.

They are fierce in war, and have their towns and fortresses near the river, in Paraga high.

CHAPTER
XXI.

Lambaré the city, and as it was besieged and surrendered.

The city of these Indians, who call these inhabitants Lambaré, is surrounded by two fences
sticks, as thick as a man, placed every twelve steps, kneeling on the ground, leaving without
so much as the height of a man with the sword and arm raised, and to fifteen steps had made
pits and holes in three states of deep, covered with branches and earth, and in the middle each,
a spear set, acute. This device is to get to the Christians, because leaving Juan de Ayolas
60 men in custody of the launches, was against the city, in order, with 300 soldiers prevented it,
and arrived at a bullet shot of the Army of the Indians 4.000 were armed with bows and arrows,
they sent us to say we were to return to the ships, and give us provisions, and the rest we
needed to return to our land as before. We despise this offer, because this province very
well suited for us, the abundance of supplies, especially because in four consecutive years we
had not eaten bread, but meat and fish only, and often very low. They started the caries shooting
at us, and we did not hurt them, but we wanted them to understand be his friends would not quiet
down for not having experienced our swords nor muskets.

Acercámonos and shoot the artillery, to whose noise and havoc, seeing that fell many died
without knowing that, and deformed agugeros wounds in their bodies, terrified with great fear,
fled tumultariarmente, falling over each other in the pits, more than 300, giving great haste
to get to his people.

We besieged the city, and the Indians fought back strongly, until the third day, killing 16 Spanish,
but fearing damage to their wives and children who were with him,
asked forgiveness and lives, and delivered to our will, offering to
do what they mandásemos and accept peace.

Oyola Captain gave seven pig, over 18 years and six deer, begging
us to stay with them.

A two Indian soldiers were to those served, and food and other necessities, and so we were
friends.

He entered the Village of the Assumption day, the year of 1539, and gave the name of the day, and
so is called today.

CHAPTER XXII.

Lambaré do a castle, with the name of the Assumption, and Carias, with relief Christians, are
against the CAAC.

Mandóse after the Carians that would make a great house of stone,
earth and wood, for safety and defense of Christians, should lift
the Indians.

We stayed here for two months.

Carios also offered the help in the war, and that if it was against Agac (which 30 leagues
distant from them, and about 334 of Good Hope Island, populated by Timbúes) 18.000 that would
give Indians.

Whereupon our captain ordered 300 Spanish, and went with them and
tooth decay Paraguay River 30 miles to the village of Agac, who were
sleeping on the site that they had left.

Reconociéronlo the Carias, and suddenly fell upon them, between 3 and 4 in the morning, and slew
all his enemies, old and young, according to the custom they have
when they are victorious.

We took about 500 canoes after we burned all the towns where we, with other damage. After a month
came some Agac, that had not been found in the ruin of stay away from this land, asking forgiveness.
The captain consented, according to the order of King, and admitted of peace, as it should do, although
pidiesen third time, because only if they rebel later, slaves were perpetual.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Are the soldiers in the Assumption; recognize the site and condition of the land, and move up
the river above.

In six months we were in this city, we repaired to the stillness, and as our Oyola captain was informed
of the Payaguá that are populated by about 100 miles of the Assumption,
to the banks of the Paraguay River, as he said cavities, and that
was their main food hunting and fishing, and also had carob flour
that made eating with fish, and wine as sweet as our wine.

Then he commanded five ships loaded Oyola corn, and prevent of all
things necessary, and give to the sailors as they needed for the proper
event the journey, the two months that he meditated.

First I wanted to make war with the Indians Payaguá, and then to
the Caracas.

Attending all the cavities with carefully and submission, and they promised faithfully obey all
orders from the captain spots.

Ordered so referred, and prevented the ship around, the captain chose 300 soldiers, better armed
and compounds, and left 100 in the city of the Assumption. River always sailing above, at
five miles we reached a pueblezuelo, whose Indians trageron meat, poultry, geese, sheep and
ostriches, and came to the last village of Carias, called Itatin, distant 80 miles of the Assumption,
Indians gave their supplies and other things that we helped.

CHAPTER XXIV.

Mount San Fernando and Peyaguás.

From there we got to the mountain called San Fernando, similar to that called Bogemberg [17],
and we Payaguá the Indians, 12 miles from Itatin: recibiéronnos peace, even feigned as learned
later, brought it home, and treated us with fish, meat, locust bean Pan or John, so we were nine
days. Ask the captain if he made them the nation knew Xarayes called, said they had heard, who
lived away in a rich province gold and silver, but no Indian had
ever seen any of it: and by relation of others, He added that they
were as wise as Christians, and abounding in corn, or cassava cazabí,
mandubís, yams and other roots, of sheep or elk meat, like animals
donkeys whose feet are like a cow, the skin thickness; of rabbits,
deer, geese, chickens, and other things that we learned after the
fact.

Asked the captain to guide the Payaguá, to go into that province,
and offered ready; and about 300 Indians ordered his captain to go
with us and brought us food and other things.

Published our captain the journey in four days, sending it proveyesen all what is necessary for
this company: three ships broke, leaving 50 Christians in the two, with orders that were there.
[18] Four months waiting, and if not return at the end, retreated to the Assumption: we were waiting
six months without knowing anything about John Oyola, and lack the supplies, it was necessary
to return to Domingo de Irala, who had been by our captain, to the city of Assumption, as our captain
had ordered.

CHAPTER XXV.

Juan Oyola comes to the land of the Naperús and Samocosis, and is dead to the back with all
Christians.

Juan Party Oyola with 300 Spanish and 300 Indians, came to the Naperús,
friends and allies of Payaguá, which remained hunting and fishing.

It populous nation, and she took some Oyola Indians for guides, because
I had to walk between several nations, as did full of jobs and lack
of all: many resisted him with weapons, and killed half the people.

Samocosis the Indians came, and could not go forward, and leaving
three Spanish patients with these Indians, set out the work, he turned
with all his family.

John descanzo Oyola with his people, weary of the road, three days in Naper, and although
it came good, understood Indians did not bring ammunition and weapons, which covered the Naperús
and Payaguá, to kill, and they got it: for having left Naper, Christians Oyola with to go to the
Payaguá, being almost in the middle of the road on them suddenly gave great multitude of these
two nations, (hidden in the forest meant for this betrayal, where had to pass), and as rabid
dogs killed the captain and his soldiers, healthy and patients without escape.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Seeing death of his captain, the Spanish elected in his place Domingo Martinez de Irala.

We knew the treachery of Payaguá, by an Indian [19] who had been slave Oyola, the which the
enemy fled to know the language, but did not give him full credit,
although it had all that had happened, from the beginning to the end
of the set pitiful.

So we were a year in the city of Assumption, unaware of our people
other than the above, and what the captain had Carios Irala, and be
publicly known that Payaguá and Naperús he had died.

But for sure, we wanted to hear from the mouth of one of the Payaguá.

Two months later, some cavities comprises two Payaguá, and trageron the captain, and asking if they
had helped to kill our men, denied it, saying that even our captain had not returned to his
own province. Gave them to torture, and confessed the truth, and what is mentioned in chapter
history, sending them to burn the captain tied to a suit, surrounded by a large fire. Then
we choose as captain to said Irala, until the King ordered otherwise, for had always been
fair and kind, especially with the soldiers.

CHAPTER XXVII.

Captain prison places in the Assumption, going to the Timbúes and casualties is: let Antonio
de Mendoza in Corpus Christi, and sails to Buenos Aires.

He then Captain provide four brigs, and 150 Spanish Village, sailing down Paraguay and Parana rivers.
The second, leaving the other people in the Assumption, with orders to join the 150 who were in
Thimphu, and to the 160 of the ships of Buenos Aires, came to the Timbúes, or Good Hope, and
Fort Corpus Christi, where our people had been, but we found the land without Indians, because
the Captain Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan, presbyter, Juan Hernandez, clerk, they were like governors,
after several treatment infidels and evil, had killed the chief of the Timbúes and other Indians, and
the rest is fled, of whom we had received many benefits. So sad knowing evil, we are amazed,
and our captain entrusted to Antonio de Mendoza Fort Corpus Christi, leaving 120 men and supplies,
in order to guard against the Indians, being always alert with good
guards, and if the Indians should come to peace, to treat them with
love, making few attentions were possible, and avoiding all who attempt
to harm them, and them Christians, and looking each other with the
utmost diligence.

Thus returned to ship, carrying get to Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan
and Hernandez, author of the infamous death of the Indians.

When they were to sail, was a principal Indian Thimphu, great friend of the Christians, was
compelled to follow his men, by his wife, children, relatives and
family, which permission to advise the captain who did not leave there
any Christian, for all the people of war of the province was settled
or to kill them, or out of the land.

The captain replied he would return soon, and people leaving enough to resist the Indians, and
begged it came, the Christians, with his wife, children and families, and they promised, and
leaving Corpus Christi, embarked the captain.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Timbúes treacherously kill 50 Spanish: forsake the other the strength of Corpus Christi, and
shipped to Buenos Aires.

After eight days, more or less, the chief sent his brother, but treacherous, treacherously, asking
our captain Mendoza six soldiers with rifles and other weapons, to spend to us with all their
wealth and family to live forever. Pondered the fear that had at the Thimphu, and the lack of
security to come without this relief, offered, as a friend request all our convenience, bring
many provisions, and an abundance of other things. Persuaded the captain, not only gave him
6, but 50 well-armed Spanish musketeers, charging that go with restraint, caution and concern,
to get rid of the damage they could cause the Indians who were half
a league from us.

The 50 Spanish arrived in front of their houses, Timbúes were greeted with the peace of Judas:
ofreciéronles fishing and hunting, and to start eating, they were about friends and enemies,
that looked to others that had been hidden at home, with such fury and haste, that it is a boy named
Caldera escaped from their hands, none was saved. And by continuing to rage, we envistieron
10.000, and stood upon the strong fourteen calendar days, with intent to destroy us, but God mercifully
stopped him. Traian long spears, swords they had taken to the Christians killed by spikes, and fought
with them and other weapons, night and day, for take the fort, but could not.

After fourteen days, gave the last envestida, stubborn throwing all his strength, and set fire to
the houses. Out came the captain Antonio de Mendoza with a sword by a door in which the Indians
had set his helmet, well hidden, and just gave it when he crossed Indians with spears, falling
to a standstill.

God wanted them to food over Indians, and could not stay over, lifted
the siege and were thus rested, and more with two launches that sent
our captain of Buenos Aires, with provisions and ammunition, so that
we could hold until we come back, which caused us great joy.

But it was greater sadness that the death of Christians instilled in the newcomers, and not
finding another way to restore, by mutual agreement we decided to
abandon Corpus Christi, and become to Buenos Aires, as egecutamos
with all people.

Scared our arrival the captain, and vehemently was overwhelmed by the ruin of the people, not
knowing he would do, for lacking the other provisions and the need for any business.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A ship arrives in Spain with people to the island of Santa Catalina, where they go to ours in
a boat.

Fifteen days had were in Buenos Aires, there fell a caravel to Spain, and warned us Santa Catalina
to be in a ship with 200 men, who came by Captain Alonso Cabrera. Al make available about our
captain ordered another small ship that was to Brazil, to Santa Catalina, [20] which was about 300
miles from Buenos Aires. Posted by captain Gonzalo de Mendoza, with orders if we find them in Santa Catalina,
loaded with rice, cassava and other supplies that his sight. Asked
the captain Gonzalo de Mendoza 7 soldiers, who could be trusted, and
chose 6 Spanish, and to me and 20 others to join us.

Sailed a month,
and we arrived at Santa Catalina, where he was the ship we were looking,
with Captain Alonso Cabrera and his people, with which we rejoice
much, and spent two months with it. As we loaded our ship with rice,
manioc and corn, and left with both ships and the captain and his
soldiers Cabrera Alonso de Santa Catalina, sailing to Buenos Aires;
and lies just 20 miles from the city, the eve of All Saints, in the
Paraná River, asked sailors to each other, if they were already in
the river Paraná. The "Dandy" and
a crew of nine convicts navigate a brig round the world! Preposterous; why, not a man aboard
could work a reckoning! His nautical fancy pictured the Osprey helplessly rolling on the swell
of the Southern Ocean, or hopelessly locked in the ice of the Antarctic Seas, and he dimly
guessed at the fate of the deluded ten. Even if they got safe to port, the chances of final
escape were all against them, for what account could they give of themselves? Overpowered by
these reflections, the honest fellow made one last effort to charm his captors back to their
pristine bondage.

"Fools!" he cried, "do you know what you are about to do? You will never escape. Give up the
brig, and I will declare, before my God, upon the Bible, that I will say nothing, but give
all good characters."

Lesly and another burst into a laugh at this wild proposition, but Rex, who had weighed his
chances well beforehand, felt the force of the pilot's speech, and answered seriously.

"It's no use talking," he said, shaking his still handsome head. "We have got the brig, and
we mean to keep her. I can navigate her, though I am no seaman, so you needn't talk further
about it, Mr. Bates. It's liberty we require."

"What are you going to do with us?" asked Bates.

"Leave you behind."

Bates's face blanched. "What, here?"

"Yes. It don't look a picturesque spot, does it? And yet I've lived here for some years"; and
he grinned.

Bates was silent. The logic of that grin was unanswerable.

"Come!" cried the Dandy, shaking off his momentary melancholy, "look alive there! Lower away
the jolly-boat. Mrs. Vickers, go down to your cabin and get anything you want. I am compelled
to put you ashore, but I have no wish to leave you without clothes." Bates listened, in a sort
of dismal admiration, at this courtly convict. He could not have spoken like that had life
depended on it. "Now, my little lady," continued Rex, "run down with your mamma, and don't
be frightened."

Sylvia flashed burning red at this indignity. "Frightened! If there had been anybody else here
but women, you never would have taken the brig. Frightened! Let me pass, prisoner!"

The whole deck burst into a great laugh at this, and poor Mrs. Vickers paused, trembling for
the consequences of the child's temerity. To thus taunt the desperate convict who held their
lives in his hands seemed sheer madness. In the boldness of the speech however, lay its safeguard.
Rex--whose politeness was mere bravado--was stung to the quick by the reflection upon his courage,
and the bitter accent with which the child had pronounced the word prisoner (the generic name
of convicts) made him bite his lips with rage. Had he had his will, he would have struck the
little creature to the deck, but the hoarse laugh of his companions warned him to forbear.
There is "public opinion" even among convicts, and Rex dared not vent his passion on so helpless
an object. As men do in such cases, he veiled his anger beneath an affectation of amusement.
In order to show that he was not moved by the taunt, he smiled upon the taunter more graciously
than ever.

"Your daughter has her father's spirit, madam," said he to Mrs. Vickers, with a bow.

Bates opened his mouth to listen. His ears were not large enough to take in the words of this
complimentary convict. He began to think that he was the victim of a nightmare. He absolutely
felt that John Rex was a greater man at that moment than John Bates.

As Mrs. Vickers descended the hatchway, the boat with Frere and the soldiers came within musket
range, and Lesly, according to orders, fired his musket over their heads, shouting to them
to lay to But Frere, boiling with rage at the manner in which the tables had been turned on
him, had determined not to resign his lost authority without a struggle. Disregarding the summons,
he came straight on, with his eyes fixed on the vessel. It was now nearly dark, and the figures
on the deck were indistinguishable. The indignant lieutenant could but guess at the condition
of affairs. Suddenly, from out of the darkness a voice hailed him--

"Hold water! back water!" it cried, and was then seemingly choked in its owner's throat.

The voice was the property of Mr. Bates. Standing near the side, he had observed Rex and Fair
bring up a great pig of iron, erst used as part of the ballast of the brig, and poise it on
the rail. Their intention was but too evident; and honest Bates, like a faithful watch-dog,
barked to warn his master. Bloodthirsty Cheshire caught him by the throat, and Frere, unheeding,
ran the boat alongside, under the very nose of the revengeful Rex. The mass of iron fell half
in-board upon the now stayed boat, and gave her sternway, with a splintered plank.

"Villains!" cried Frere, "would you swamp us?"

"Aye," laughed Rex, "and a dozen such as ye! The brig's ours, can't ye see, and we're your
masters now!"

Frere, stifling an exclamation of rage, cried to the bow to hook on, but the bow had driven
the boat backward, and she was already beyond arm's length of the brig. Looking up, he saw
Cheshire's savage face, and heard the click of the lock as he cocked his piece. The two soldiers,
exhausted by their long pull, made no effort to stay the progress of the boat, and almost before
the swell caused by the plunge of the mass of iron had ceased to agitate the water, the deck
of the Osprey had become invisible in the darkness.

Frere struck his fist upon the thwart in sheer impotence of rage. "The scoundrels!" he said,
between his teeth, "they've mastered us. What do they mean to do next?"

The answer came pat to the question. From the dark hull of the brig broke a flash and a report,
and a musket ball cut the water beside them with a chirping noise. Between the black indistinct
mass which represented the brig, and the glimmering water, was visible a white speck, which
gradually neared them.

"Come alongside with ye!" hailed a voice, "or it will be the worse for ye!"

"They want to murder us," says Frere. "Give way, men!"

But the two soldiers, exchanging glances one with the other, pulled the boat's head round,
and made for the vessel. "It's no use, Mr. Frere," said the man nearest him; "we can do no
good now, and they won't hurt us, I dare say."

"You dogs, you are in league with them," bursts out Frere, purple with indignation. "Do you
mutiny?"

"Come, come, sir," returned the soldier, sulkily, "this ain't the time to bully; and, as for
mutiny, why, one man's about as good as another just now."

This speech from the lips of a man who, but a few minutes before, would have risked his life
to obey orders of his officer, did more than an hour's reasoning to convince Maurice Frere
of the hopelessness of resistance. His authority--born of circumstance, and supported by adventitious
aid--had left him. The musket shot had reduced him to the ranks. He was now no more than anyone
else; indeed, he was less than many, for those who held the firearms were the ruling powers.
With a groan he resigned himself to his fate, and looking at the sleeve of the undress uniform
he wore, it seemed to him that virtue had gone out of it. When they reached the brig, they
found that the jolly-boat had been lowered and laid alongside. In her were eleven persons;
Bates with forehead gashed, and hands bound, the stunned Grimes, Russen and Fair pulling, Lyon,
Riley, Cheshire, and Lesly with muskets, and John Rex in the stern sheets, with Bates's pistols
in his trousers' belt, and a loaded musket across his knees. The white object which had been
seen by the men in the whale-boat was a large white shawl which wrapped Mrs. Vickers and Sylvia.

Frere muttered an oath of relief when he saw this white bundle. He had feared that the child
was injured. By the direction of Rex the whale-boat was brought alongside the jolly-boat, and
Cheshire and Lesly boarded her. Lesly then gave his musket to Rex, and bound Frere's hands
behind him, in the same manner as had been done for Bates. Frere attempted to resist this indignity,
but Cheshire, clapping his musket to his ear, swore he would blow out his brains if he uttered
another syllable; Frere, catching the malignant eye of John Rex, remembered how easily a twitch
of the finger would pay off old scores, and was silent. "Step in here, sir, if you please,"
said Rex, with polite irony. "I am sorry to be compelled to tie you, but I must consult my
own safety as well as your convenience." Frere scowled, and, stepping awkwardly into the jolly-boat,
fell. Pinioned as he was, he could not rise without assistance, and Russen pulled him roughly
to his feet with a coarse laugh. In his present frame of mind, that laugh galled him worse
than his bonds.

Poor Mrs. Vickers, with a woman's quick instinct, saw this, and, even amid her own trouble,
found leisure to console him. "The wretches!" she said, under her breath, as Frere was flung
down beside her, "to subject you to such indignity!" Sylvia said nothing, and seemed to shrink
from the lieutenant. Perhaps in her childish fancy she had pictured him as coming to her rescue,
armed cap-a-pie, and clad in dazzling mail, or, at the very least, as a muscular hero, who
would settle affairs out of hand by sheer personal prowess. If she had entertained any such
notion, the reality must have struck coldly upon her senses. Mr. Frere, purple, clumsy, and
bound, was not at all heroic.

"Now, my lads," says Rex--who seemed to have endured the cast-off authority of Frere--"we give
you your choice. Stay at Hell's Gates, or come with us!"

The soldiers paused, irresolute. To join the mutineers meant a certainty of hard work, with
a chance of ultimate hanging. Yet to stay with the prisoners was--as far as they could see--to
incur the inevitable fate of starvation on a barren coast. As is often the case on such occasions,
a trifle sufficed to turn the scale. The wounded Grimes, who was slowly recovering from his
stupor, dimly caught the meaning of the sentence, and in his obfuscated condition of intellect
must needs make comment upon it. "Go with him, ye beggars!" said he, "and leave us honest men!
Oh, ye'll get a tying-up for this."

The phrase "tying-up" brought with it recollection of the worst portion of military discipline,
the cat, and revived in the minds of the pair already disposed to break the yoke that sat so
heavily upon them, a train of dismal memories. The life of a soldier on a convict station was
at that time a hard one. He was often stinted in rations, and of necessity deprived of all
rational recreation, while punishment for offences was prompt and severe. The companies drafted
to the penal settlements were not composed of the best material, and the pair had good precedent
for the course they were about to take.

"Come," says Rex, "I can't wait here all night. The wind is freshening, and we must make the
Bar. Which is it to be?"

"We'll go with you!" says the man who had pulled the stroke in the whale-boat, spitting into
the water with averted face. Upon which utterance the convicts burst into joyous oaths, and
the pair were received with much hand-shaking.

Then Rex, with Lyon and Riley as a guard, got into the whale boat, and having loosed the two
prisoners from their bonds, ordered them to take the place of Russen and Fair. The whale-boat
was manned by the seven mutineers, Rex steering, Fair, Russen, and the two recruits pulling,
and the other four standing up, with their muskets levelled at the jolly-boat. Their long slavery
had begotten such a dread of authority in these men that they feared it even when it was bound
and menaced by four muskets. "Keep your distance!" shouted Cheshire, as Frere and Bates, in
obedience to orders, began to pull the jolly-boat towards the shore; and in this fashion was
the dismal little party conveyed to the mainland.

It was night when they reached it, but the clear sky began to thrill with a late moon as yet
unrisen, and the waves, breaking gently upon the beach, glimmered with a radiance born of their
own motion. Frere and Bates, jumping ashore, helped out Mrs. Vickers, Sylvia, and the wounded
Grimes. This being done under the muzzles of the muskets, Rex commanded that Bates and Frere
should push the jolly-boat as far as they could from the shore, and Riley catching her by a
boat-hook as she came towards them, she was taken in tow.

"Now, boys," says Cheshire, with a savage delight, "three cheers for old England and Liberty!"

Upon which a great shout went up, echoed by the grim hills which had witnessed so many miseries.

To the wretched five, this exultant mirth sounded like a knell of death. "Great God!" cried
Bates, running up to his knees in water after the departing boats, "would you leave us here
to starve?"

The only answer was the jerk and dip of the retreating oars.

CHAPTER XI. LEFT AT "HELL'S GATES."

There is no need to dwell upon the mental agonies of that miserable night. Perhaps, of all
the five, the one least qualified to endure it realized the prospect of suffering most acutely.
Mrs. Vickers--lay-figure and noodle as she was--had the keen instinct of approaching danger,
which is in her sex a sixth sense. She was a woman and a mother, and owned a double capacity
for suffering. Her feminine imagination pictured all the horrors of death by famine, and having
realized her own torments, her maternal love forced her to live them over again in the person
of her child. Rejecting Bates's offer of a pea-jacket and Frere's vague tenders of assistance,
the poor woman withdrew behind a rock that faced the sea, and, with her daughter in her arms,
resigned herself to her torturing thoughts. Sylvia, recovered from her terror, was almost content,
and, curled in her mother's shawl, slept. To her little soul this midnight mystery of boats
and muskets had all the flavour of a romance. With Bates, Frere, and her mother so close to
her, it was impossible to be afraid; besides, it was obvious that papa--the Supreme Being of
the settlement--must at once return and severely punish the impertinent prisoners who had dared
to insult his wife and child, and as Sylvia dropped off to sleep, she caught herself, with
some indignation, pitying the mutineers for the tremendous scrape they had got themselves into.
How they would be flogged when papa came back! In the meantime this sleeping in the open air
was novel and rather pleasant.

Honest Bates produced a piece of biscuit, and, with all the generosity of his nature, suggested
that this should be set aside for the sole use of the two females, but Mrs. Vickers would not
hear of it. "We must all share alike," said she, with something of the spirit that she knew
her husband would have displayed under like circumstance; and Frere wondered at her apparent
strength of mind. Had he been gifted with more acuteness, he would not have wondered; for when
a crisis comes to one of two persons who have lived much together, the influence of the nobler
spirit makes itself felt. Frere had a tinder-box in his pocket, and he made a fire with some
dry leaves and sticks. Grimes fell asleep, and the two men sitting at their fire discussed
the chances of escape. Neither liked to openly broach the supposition that they had been finally
deserted. It was concluded between them that unless the brig sailed in the night--and the now
risen moon showed her yet lying at anchor--the convicts would return and bring them food. This
supposition proved correct, for about an hour after daylight they saw the whale-boat pulling
towards them.

A discussion had arisen amongst the mutineers as to the propriety of at once making sail, but
Barker, who had been one of the pilot-boat crew, and knew the dangers of the Bar, vowed that
he would not undertake to steer the brig through the Gates until morning; and so the boats
being secured astern, a strict watch was set, lest the helpless Bates should attempt to rescue
the vessel. During the evening--the excitement attendant upon the outbreak having passed away,
and the magnitude of the task before them being more fully apparent to their minds--a feeling
of pity for the unfortunate party on the mainland took possession of them. It was quite possible
that the Osprey might be recaptured, in which case five useless murders would have been committed;
and however callous in bloodshed were the majority of the ten, not one among them could contemplate
in cold blood, without a twinge of remorse, the death of the harmless child of the Commandant.

John Rex, seeing how matters were going, made haste to take to himself the credit of mercy.
He ruled, and had always ruled, his ruffians not so much by suggesting to them the course they
should take, as by leading them on the way they had already chosen for themselves. "I propose,"
said he, "that we divide the provisions. There are five of them and twelve of us. Then nobody
can blame us."

"Ay," said Porter, mindful of a similar exploit, "and if we're taken, they can tell what we
have done. Don't let our affair be like that of the Cypress, to leave them to starve." "Ay,
ay," says Barker, "you're right! When Fergusson was topped at Hobart Town, I heard old Troke
say that if he'd not refused to set the tucker ashore, he might ha' got off with a whole skin."

Thus urged, by self-interest, as well as sentiment, to mercy, the provision was got upon deck
by daylight, and a division was made. The soldiers, with generosity born of remorse, were for
giving half to the marooned men, but Barker exclaimed against this. "When the schooner finds
they don't get to headquarters, she's bound to come back and look for 'em," said he; "and we'll
want all the tucker we can get, maybe, afore we sights land."

This reasoning was admitted and acted upon. There was in the harness-cask about fifty pounds
of salt meat, and a third of this quantity, together with half a small sack of flour, some
tea and sugar mixed together in a bag, and an iron kettle and pannikin, was placed in the whale-boat.
Rex, fearful of excesses among his crew, had also lowered down one of the two small puncheons
of rum which the store-room contained. Cheshire disputed this, and stumbling over a goat that
had been taken on board from Philip's Island, caught the creature by the leg, and threw it
into the sea, bidding Rex take that with him also. Rex dragged the poor beast into the boat,
and with this miscellaneous cargo pushed off to the shore. The poor goat, shivering, began
to bleat piteously, and the men laughed. To a stranger it would have appeared that the boat
contained a happy party of fishermen, or coast settlers, returning with the proceeds of a day's
marketing.

Laying off as the water shallowed, Rex called to Bates to come for the cargo, and three men
with muskets standing up as before, ready to resist any attempt at capture, the provisions,
goat and all, were carried ashore. "There!" says Rex, "you can't say we've used you badly,
for we've divided the provisions." The sight of this almost unexpected succour revived the
courage of the five, and they felt grateful. After the horrible anxiety they had endured all
that night, they were prepared to look with kindly eyes upon the men who had come to their
assistance.

"Men," said Bates, with something like a sob in his voice, "I didn't expect this. You are good
fellows, for there ain't much tucker aboard, I know."

"Yes," affirmed Frere, "you're good fellows."

Rex burst into a savage laugh. "Shut your mouth, you tyrant," said he, forgetting his dandyism
in the recollection of his former suffering. "It ain't for your benefit. You may thank the
lady and the child for it."

Julia Vickers hastened to propitiate the arbiter of her daughter's fate. "We are obliged to
you," she said, with a touch of quiet dignity resembling her husband's; "and if I ever get
back safely, I will take care that your kindness shall be known."

The swindler and forger took off his leather cap with quite an air. It was five years since
a lady had spoken to him, and the old time when he was Mr. Lionel Crofton, a "gentleman sportsman",
came back again for an instant. At that moment, with liberty in his hand, and fortune all before
him, he felt his self-respect return, and he looked the lady in the face without flinching.

"I sincerely trust, madam," said he, "that you will get back safely. May I hope for your good
wishes for myself and my companions?"

Listening, Bates burst into a roar of astonished enthusiasm. "What a dog it is!" he cried.
"John Rex, John Rex, you were never made to be a convict, man!"

Rex smiled. "Good-bye, Mr. Bates, and God preserve you!"

"Good-bye," says Bates, rubbing his hat off his face, "and I--I--damme, I hope you'll get safe
off--there! for liberty's sweet to every man."

"Good-bye, prisoners!" says Sylvia, waving her handkerchief; "and I hope they won't catch you,
too."

So, with cheers and waving of handkerchiefs, the boat departed.

In the emotion which the apparently disinterested conduct of John Rex had occasioned the exiles,
all earnest thought of their own position had vanished, and, strange to say, the prevailing
feeling was that of anxiety for the ultimate fate of the mutineers. But as the boat grew smaller
and smaller in the distance, so did their consciousness of their own situation grow more and
more distinct; and when at last the boat had disappeared in the shadow of the brig, all started,
as if from a dream, to the wakeful contemplation of their own case.

A council of war was held, with Mr. Frere at the head of it, and the possessions of the little
party were thrown into common stock. The salt meat, flour, and tea were placed in a hollow
rock at some distance from the beach, and Mr. Bates was appointed purser, to apportion to each,
without fear or favour, his stated allowance. The goat was tethered with a piece of fishing
line sufficiently long to allow her to browse. The cask of rum, by special agreement, was placed
in the innermost recess of the rock, and it was resolved that its contents should not be touched
except in case of sickness, or in last extremity. There was no lack of water, for a spring
ran bubbling from the rocks within a hundred yards of the spot where the party had landed.
They calculated that, with prudence, their provisions would last them for nearly four weeks.

It was found, upon a review of their possessions, that they had among them three pocket knives,
a ball of string, two pipes, matches and a fig of tobacco, fishing lines with hooks, and a
big jack-knife which Frere had taken to gut the fish he had expected to catch. But they saw
with dismay that there was nothing which could be used axe-wise among the party. Mrs. Vickers
had her shawl, and Bates a pea-jacket, but Frere and Grimes were without extra clothing. It
was agreed that each should retain his own property, with the exception of the fishing lines,
which were confiscated to the commonwealth.

Having made these arrangements, the kettle, filled with water from the spring, was slung from
three green sticks over the fire, and a pannikin of weak tea, together with a biscuit, served
out to each of the party, save Grimes, who declared himself unable to eat. Breakfast over,
Bates made a damper, which was cooked in the ashes, and then another council was held as to
future habitation.

It was clearly evident that they could not sleep in the open air. It was the middle of summer,
and though no annoyance from rain was apprehended, the heat in the middle of the day was most
oppressive. Moreover, it was absolutely necessary that Mrs. Vickers and the child should have
some place to themselves. At a little distance from the beach was a sandy rise, that led up
to the face of the cliff, and on the eastern side of this rise grew a forest of young trees.
Frere proposed to cut down these trees, and make a sort of hut with them. It was soon discovered,
however, that the pocket knives were insufficient for this purpose, but by dint of notching
the young saplings and then breaking them down, they succeeded, in a couple of hours, in collecting
wood enough to roof over a space between the hollow rock which contained the provisions and
another rock, in shape like a hammer, which jutted out within five yards of it. Mrs. Vickers
and Sylvia were to have this hut as a sleeping-place, and Frere and Bates, lying at the mouth
of the larder, would at once act as a guard to it and them. Grimes was to make for himself
another hut where the fire had been lighted on the previous night.

When they got back to dinner, inspirited by this resolution, they found poor Mrs. Vickers in
great alarm. Grimes, who, by reason of the dint in his skull, had been left behind, was walking
about the sea-beach, talking mysteriously, and shaking his fist at an imaginary foe. On going
up to him, they discovered that the blow had affected his brain, for he was delirious. Frere
endeavoured to soothe him, without effect; and at last, by Bates's advice, the poor fellow
was rolled in the sea. The cold bath quelled his violence, and, being laid beneath the shade
of a rock hard by, he fell into a condition of great muscular exhaustion, and slept.

The damper was then portioned out by Bates, and, together with a small piece of meat, it formed
the dinner of the party. Mrs. Vickers reported that she had observed a great commotion on board
the brig, and thought that the prisoners must be throwing overboard such portions of the cargo
as were not absolutely necessary to them, in order to lighten her. This notion Bates declared
to be correct, and further pointed out that the mutineers had got out a kedge-anchor, and by
hauling on the kedge-line, were gradually warping the brig down the harbour. Before dinner
was over a light breeze sprang up, and the Osprey, running up the union-jack reversed, fired
a musket, either in farewell or triumph, and, spreading her sails, disappeared round the western
horn of the harbour.

Mrs. Vickers, taking Sylvia with her, went away a few paces, and leaning against the rugged
wall of her future home, wept bitterly. Bates and Frere affected cheerfulness, but each felt
that he had hitherto regarded the presence of the brig as a sort of safeguard, and had never
fully realized his own loneliness until now.

The necessity for work, however, admitted of no indulgence of vain sorrow, and Bates setting
the example, the pair worked so hard that by nightfall they had torn down and dragged together
sufficient brushwood to complete Mrs. Vickers's hut. During the progress of this work they
were often interrupted by Grimes, who persisted in vague rushes at them, exclaiming loudly
against their supposed treachery in leaving him at the mercy of the mutineers. Bates also complained
of the pain caused by the wound in his forehead, and that he was afflicted with a giddiness
which he knew not how to avert. By dint of frequently bathing his head at the spring, however,
he succeeded in keeping on his legs, until the work of dragging together the boughs was completed,
when he threw himself on the ground, and declared that he could rise no more.

Frere applied to him the remedy that had been so successfully tried upon Grimes, but the salt
water inflamed his wound and rendered his condition worse. Mrs. Vickers recommended that a
little spirit and water should be used to wash the cut, and the cask was got out and broached
for that purpose. Tea and damper formed their evening meal; and by the light of a blazing fire,
their condition looked less desperate. Mrs. Vickers had set the pannikin on a flat stone, and
dispensed the tea with an affectation of dignity which would have been absurd had it not been
heart-rending. She had smoothed her hair and pinned the white shawl about her coquettishly;
she even ventured to lament to Mr. Frere that she had not brought more clothes. Sylvia was
in high spirits, and scorned to confess hunger. When the tea had been drunk, she fetched water
from the spring in the kettle, and bathed Bates's head with it. It was resolved that, on the
morrow, a search should be made for some place from which to cast the fishing line, and that
one of the number should fish daily.

The condition of the unfortunate Grimes now gave cause for the greatest uneasiness. From maundering
foolishly he had taken to absolute violence, and had to be watched by Frere. After much muttering
and groaning, the poor fellow at last dropped off to sleep, and Frere, having assisted Bates
to his sleeping-place in front of the rock, and laid him down on a heap of green brushwood,
prepared to snatch a few hours' slumber. Wearied by excitement and the labours of the day,
he slept heavily, but, towards morning, was awakened by a strange noise.

Grimes, whose delirium had apparently increased, had succeeded in forcing his way through the
rude fence of brushwood, and had thrown himself upon Bates with the ferocity of insanity. Growling
to himself, he had seized the unfortunate pilot by the throat, and the pair were struggling
together. Bates, weakened by the sickness that had followed upon his wound in the head, was
quite unable to cope with his desperate assailant, but calling feebly upon Frere for help,
had made shift to lay hold upon the jack-knife of which we have before spoken. Frere, starting
to his feet, rushed to the assistance of the pilot, but was too late. Grimes, enraged by the
sight of the knife, tore it from Bates's grasp, and before Frere could catch his arm, plunged
it twice into the unfortunate man's breast.

"I'm a dead man!" cried Bates faintly.

The sight of the blood, together with the exclamation of his victim, recalled Grimes to consciousness.
He looked in bewilderment at the bloody weapon, and then, flinging it from him, rushed away
towards the sea, into which he plunged headlong.

Frere, aghast at this sudden and terrible tragedy, gazed after him, and saw from out the placid
water, sparkling in the bright beams of morning, a pair of arms, with outstretched hands, emerge;
a black spot, that was a head, uprose between these stiffening arms, and then, with a horrible
cry, the whole disappeared, and the bright water sparkled as placidly as before. The eyes of
the terrified Frere, travelling back to the wounded man, saw, midway between this sparkling
water and the knife that lay on the sand, an object that went far to explain the maniac's sudden
burst of fury. The rum cask lay upon its side by the remnants of last night's fire, and close
to it was a clout, with which the head of the wounded man had been bound. It was evident that
the poor creature, wandering in his delirium, had come across the rum cask, drunk a quantity
of its contents, and been maddened by the fiery spirit.

Frere hurried to the side of Bates, and lifting him up, strove to staunch the blood that flowed
from his chest. It would seem that he had been resting himself on his left elbow, and that
Grimes, snatching the knife from his right hand, had stabbed him twice in the right breast.
He was pale and senseless, and Frere feared that the wound was mortal. Tearing off his neck-handkerchief,
he endeavoured to bandage the wound, but found that the strip of silk was insufficient for
the purpose. The noise had roused Mrs. Vickers, who, stifling her terror, made haste to tear
off a portion of her dress, and with this a bandage of sufficient width was made. Frere went
to the cask to see if, haply, he could obtain from it a little spirit with which to moisten
the lips of the dying man, but it was empty. Grimes, after drinking his fill, had overturned
the unheaded puncheon, and the greedy sand had absorbed every drop of liquor. Sylvia brought
some water from the spring, and Mrs. Vickers bathing Bates's head with this, he revived a little.
By-and-by Mrs. Vickers milked the goat--she had never done such a thing before in all her life--and
the milk being given to Bates in a pannikin, he drank it eagerly, but vomited it almost instantly.
It was evident that he was sinking from some internal injury.

None of the party had much appetite for breakfast, but Frere, whose sensibilities were less
acute than those of the others, ate a piece of salt meat and damper. It struck him, with a
curious feeling of pleasant selfishness, that now Grimes had gone, the allowance of provisions
would be increased, and that if Bates went also, it would be increased still further. He did
not give utterance to his thoughts, however, but sat with the wounded man's head on his knees,
and brushed the settling flies from his face. He hoped, after all, that the pilot would not
die, for he should then be left alone to look after the women. Perhaps some such thought was
agitating Mrs. Vickers also. As for Sylvia, she made no secret of her anxiety.

"Don't die, Mr. Bates--oh, don't die!" she said, standing piteously near, but afraid to touch
him. "Don't leave mamma and me alone in this dreadful place!"

Poor Bates, of course, said nothing, but Frere frowned heavily, and Mrs. Vickers said reprovingly,
"Sylvia!" just as if they had been in the old house on distant Sarah Island.

In the afternoon Frere went away to drag together some wood for the fire, and when he returned
he found the pilot near his end. Mrs. Vickers said that for an hour he had lain without motion,
and almost without breath. The major's wife had seen more than one death-bed, and was calm
enough; but poor little Sylvia, sitting on a stone hard by, shook with terror. She had a dim
notion that death must be accompanied by violence. As the sun sank, Bates rallied; but the
two watchers knew that it was but the final flicker of the expiring candle. "He's going!" said
Frere at length, under his breath, as though fearful of awaking his half-slumbering soul. Mrs.
Vickers, her eyes streaming with silent tears, lifted the honest head, and moistened the parched
lips with her soaked handkerchief. A tremor shook the once stalwart limbs, and the dying man
opened his eyes. For an instant he seemed bewildered, and then, looking from one to the other,
intelligence returned to his glance, and it was evident that he remembered all. His gaze rested
upon the pale face of the affrighted Sylvia, and then turned to Frere. There could be no mistaking
the mute appeal of those eloquent eyes.

"Yes, I'll take care of her," said Frere.

Bates smiled, and then, observing that the blood from his wound had stained the white shawl
of Mrs. Vickers, he made an effort to move his head. It was not fitting that a lady's shawl
should be stained with the blood of a poor fellow like himself. The fashionable fribble, with
quick instinct, understood the gesture, and gently drew the head back upon her bosom. In the
presence of death the woman was womanly. For a moment all was silent, and they thought he had
gone; but all at once he opened his eyes and looked round for the sea.

"Turn my face to it once more," he whispered; and as they raised him, he inclined his ear to
listen. "It's calm enough here, God bless it," he said; "but I can hear the waves a-breaking
hard upon the Bar!"

And so his head dropped, and he died.

As Frere relieved Mrs. Vickers from the weight of the corpse, Sylvia ran to her mother. "Oh,
mamma, mamma," she cried, "why did God let him die when we wanted him so much?"

Before it grew dark, Frere made shift to carry the body to the shelter of some rocks at a little
distance, and spreading the jacket over the face, he piled stones upon it to keep it steady.
The march of events had been so rapid that he scarcely realized that since the previous evening
two of the five human creatures left in this wilderness had escaped from it. 

CHAPTER XLII.

Tooth decay due to the Christians, aided by the Yapirús and Nagases,
earning them Froemidiere and Acaraiba.

We left the Assumption, with our General, 350 Christians, and the 1000 Indians, distributed so, always
three goes to a Christian: we three leagues of Carias were 15.000, governed by their chief Mayrairú,
and although we went half a league of them envestida not be tired
by the way, and very wet from the rain continued: ocultámonos in a
forest, where we had spent the night.

At six o'clock the next day, we began to march, and at seven the envestida: The battle lasted
until ten, who fled precipitately to get into Froemidiere, [40] people who had fortified, four leagues
away, leaving dead 2.000, whose heads took the Yapirús. Of us died ten, and some injuries that
we send to the Assumption, others follow the enemy until Froemidiere, where he had put the
chief Mayrairú with Indians. Had the fortified village as walls, with three tiers of logs, thick
as a man, a state of high, had also made holes, as those remaining these, and in each one, five
or six stakes set and sharpened like needles. It was fine strengthened, with strong Indian garrison:
tuvímosle besieged three days in vain. We over 400 large round shields, the hides of the sheep,
pig, called guanaco: is so big this animal like a horse medium blue, not pati-tended, in else
like the ass, and good food. Her skin is a half finger thick, and there many in this province.
These shields Yapirús we gave some Indians, with a sickle, and between two Indians would put a
harquebusier. Between two three rushed to the people, by three parts, and at three hours,
destroyed the palisades, we, with great slaughter in Indian wives and kids, although most of
them fled to Acaraiba, his people, I was twenty leagues Froemidiere, which had been fortified
as they could. They returned Cavities to assemble the large number, and put his army near a rough
woods, benefit from it if these people also lost. At five in the afternoon we arrived, chasing
the Carias, to Acaraiba and sitiámosle: laying the attacks on three spot, and sentries let in
the forest. Then we got the relief that we had asked to meet the dead and wounded and was 200 Christians
and 500 Yapirús and Nagases of the Assumption, with which our increased Christian army and 1.300 to
450 Indians. They had fortified the Carians sticks to Acaraiba and ditches, much more than other
people, and also had made some instruments such as buzzards, with the people, than if they had
the effect they thought, each would have taken twenty or thirty men. We were on it four days without
doing anything, until a Indian Carlo, who had been his captain, and owned the village, came
by night General, asking with great instance, not destroy it with fire, offering, if allowed,
to trace and method of take. Prometíole the general, who would not receive any damage, ensuring it met.
Thus showed two paths in the forest they were going to give the people, saying that when fire inside
him to do it, we had to envestida. In the same way that you had tried, be executed: we the people,
and we killed many Indians, and those who believed escape, fleeing, fell into the hands of the
Yapirús, which killed most: their wives and children were free because they had hidden in a large
forest, a mile away.

Those who escaped the massacre, the chief Taber took refuge in his
village, called Hieruquizaba, Acaraiba 40 leagues, we could not follow,
because they were burning and pillaging as they went, removing all
the supplies and food.

We spent four days in Acaraiba, repair work and curing the wounded.

CHAPTER XLIII.

Returned to the Assumption, in charge of another expedition, up the
river on the ships, and to take Hieruquizaba, forgiving to Taber.

We returned to the city of the Assumption, with the intention of repeating the journey down
the river, looking for Hieruquizaba village where he lived the chief of the Indians, Taber. In
the Assumption were fourteen days, warning of weapons, ammunition, supplies and other things
for the day referred. The general, who already had nearly 60 years of age, sought to increase
Spanish é his Indian army to replace the sick and wounded in the
battles and footage of people.

Compúsose nine navy brigs and 200 canoes, which were 1.500 Yapirús: go up by Paraguay river,
to search Hieruquizaba village, where they had fled caries that far
46 miles of the Assumption, and on this trip we gathered the chief,
who gave the trace taking to Acari, with 1.000 Carias, against Taber.

Willing people on the ground and water, march, and we were two leagues from Hieruquizaba, and
the general sent two Indians say to Taber caries hiciese the fugitives back to town, with their
wives, children and finances, and that should give obedience to the Christians as before: and if
they reused, the would push all of that province. Taber said that neither knew General, or to
those Christians who envistiesen course, that was to kill, throwing
bones against them.

Club sent to the ambassadors, and sent them away, threatening that if no Christians are fleeing,
they had to kill.

The general, seeing the failure of his embassy, ​​he marched with
all his might, distributed four squadrons: the river we Ipan, which
is as wide as the Danube, is half state of deep, and in parts more:
grow with the flood, so sometimes you can not walk on land.

We had to cross this river, but the Indians were defending this step, and made us so great harm,
if it were not for God's providence, and the artillery that fired it, would have perished. But
we pass, and the ships reached the other bank, which saw by the Indians, fled to get to his
village, half a league from there. Seguímoslos so fast, almost at the same time we reached the
village Hieruquizaba, which place, so there no one could enter or leave: use after huanaco shields
and axes, as is said, and that afternoon we entered the village, killing many Indians, and reserving
their wives and children to captives, and had commanded the general.

Many Indians fled the run, and Yapirús friends got the dispossession of 1.000 heads of their
enemies.

Then came the Carians fled with his boss, asking pardon of the general, and that they restitution
of their wives and children, offering obedience, and serving as before
and the general forgave them.

And persevered after steadfast in our service, all the time I was there at that province. This war
lasted half a year, since 1546.

CHAPTER XLIV.

General Turns itself to the Assumption, and go inland for gold and silver.

After the war, became the general with people on the ships to the Assumption, and rest two full years,
provided that in so long ship came from Spain and not be idle general, suggested to the soldiers
if they would have to enter the ground rather than in with a people. All agreed on what he
said, and broke 350 Spanish, to those who offered, if they were with him, together Indians
and take care of clothing, horses and whatever else necessary. Joyful all admitted the offer:
He called the decay, and asked them if he wanted to go to 2.000? And the point offered to serve
as were required.

After two months, our general left the year 1548, up the Paraguay River with seven brigs and
two hundred canoes. People who did not fit into the ships, was by land, with 130 horses and he
returned to gather near the high, round hill of San Fernando, 92 miles distant from the Assumption,
which inhabit the Payaguá. Did the general return from there to the Assumption five launches
with the canoes, leaving the other two with 50 Spanish, supplied for two years; by Captain Don
Francisco de Mendoza, [41] in order to stay in that place two years
entrusting had great care with the Indians, what should happen to
John Oyola, until you return.

He began his journey with 300 Christians, 130 horses and 2,000 caries, and in eight continuous
days no found a nation. On the ninth, and to the thirty-six miles from Mount San Fernando, we
in Naperús, Indians are kept for hunting and fishing.

They are tall and robust. The women are ugly, and from waist to knee bring a towel. Four days
later we arrived at the Mapais, [42] populous nation. They are so sugetos to their principals,
that the Indians needed to serve, and served in the rustic German nobles.

Have an abundance of fruits of corn, cassava, sweet potatoes, Mandubia, pacobas, and other roots
and things to eat. There are many deer, sheep, pigs, ostriches, ducks, geese, chickens and
other many birds. In the forests there are many groups, they spend on wine making and other uses,
and how walking later, so much more fertile ground.

All year there eating corn and roots in this province.

The sheep, which they call huanacos are of two kinds, domestic and Monte Carlo, that used to load,
horseback riding and other ministries, such as use of the horses, and on this day, for being
bad leg, I walked over forty miles at a time. In Peru, carrying the merchandise in them. [43]
are high and warlike Indians, who only take care of things War: Indian women are beautiful, and
walk covers and background. Not working in the field, before the Indians are careful to support
the family, home or do more than tect or cotton spinning, or cooking the food to their husbands, or
serve in other nice things which are also with others easily.

Mbayas came out to receive, less than half a league from this village,
next to a lugarillo, where they said, perfidious and treacherous,
that sosegasemos that night, and assist us with what necesitásemos,
and to ensure the treachery which dealt generally gave the three Indian
girls four silver crowns, which tend to bring in the head, and four
plates, each half inch long and half as wide, that are placed on the
forehead ornament.

We believed were peace, and we stayed at the lugarillo, and finished dinner and sentinel sites,
sleep until near midnight, the general least three Indian cast, and looking for them, was moved
the army and the Mbayas suspecting evil, secretly ordered the dawn that they were all in its
housing prevented with their weapons, and ready to egecutar what they are commanded.

CHAPTER XLV.

Mbayas peoples, Chan, Toba, Peyonas, Mayegoni, Morrone, Paroni and Siman. [44]

Imagining Indians we were sleeping, suddenly rammed us 2.000, which were quickly routed, with
the death of more than half, and the rest fled the village, where
quickly followed them and entered it, but did not find anyone, not
their wives and children.

General chased with 150 musketeers and 2,500 Indians in a great hurry, for three days and two
nights without stopping over to eat and to rest four or five hours
a night.

The third day we took in the woods many Mbayas with their children and wives, but they were not
we sought, but his friends, who did not have the slightest suspicion that they were to them:
no But they paid for the guilty, because when we hit them, killing them and intrigued with Indian
and their children, about 3,000, and it gets dark, no escape, because all the large number of the
people gathered on a hill surrounded by forests.

I caught the 19 Indian men and women stripping not very old, and other things.

We returned to camp where we stayed eight days, because we had enough food. From Mbayas the mountain
of San Fernando, there are 50 leagues, and from the Naperús, 36.

Following the path, we came to the Indians Chanes, subjects of the Mbayas, the way that Germany
to his rustic gentlemen are in this day and planted corn and roots cultivated in this land during
the year: for when you are harvesting, another is maturing and another is planted, and so at any
time in the fields are fresh things to eat. From there we went to another village, whose Indians
fled when they saw us and left us plenty food, we stopped two days, at six miles we came to the Toba
Indians, who had fled, and was well aware of food, are also sugetos to the Mbayas.

We continued the journey without finding any Indians, and to the seven days to reach the nation of
the Peyonas, which is only 14 miles from the Toba. The chief of the village came to greet us peace,
together large crowd of Indians, General fervently, toilets enter the village, putting your actual
site where we received. But generally not served, and with good words the right way, he wanted
and did not want the boss, he entered the town, he had lots of chickens, geese, deer, sheep, ostriches,
parrots, rabbits and other similar, much corn and roots, that the land is fertile, but very
lack of water, and silver and gold, which we did not dare to ask, because the other nations
where we were to pass, they did not know what they wanted, and flee. Three days we stopped to these
Peyonas, and generally informed of the nature and condition of this province, and to say goodbye
gave us a guide, take us by a way that there is water to drink.

And at four leagues to the nation we call Mayegoni, where we spent
a day and taking guide and language departed.

These Indians were very peaceful, and gave us everything we needed.

Walks eight leagues, we came to the nation of Indians Peppers: recibiéronos also of peace, and
we two days with them, and made relation of the nature and quality of land, with new guide we
continued our journey, and at four miles we came to another nation, not so crowded, Paroni
call, will Indian warriors 3.000: there we stopped for a day, but had little food. At twelve
miles we enter another nation, whose natives are called Siman. His people is situated on a high hill
and surrounded by thorns and underbrush as wall. Were assembled many, and we were in war with bows,
arrows and other weapons. His pride was short-lived, it up, deserted their people, having been
burned before, but the fields give us enough food.

CHAPTER XLVI.

Of the Barcones, Leyhanos, Carconos, Sivisicosis and Samocosis.

A 16 miles from this village, we walked in four days, arrived near the town suddenly Barcones
Indians, not knowing we were going, they began to flee, but at our request stopped. We asked food,
and promptly trageron abundantly, chickens, geese, sheep, ostriches, deer and other things, and
very glad we stopped the Indians four days, taking news from the land. Thence in three days, the Indians
entered Leyhanos, nation that lives to twelve miles from the Barcones: had little victuals, for
the locust had destroyed almost all fruit, and not spend what we had, we went to walk past
night and in four days we went 16 leagues, and came to another nation called Carconos, that
although they had suffered the same plague, had more food. Reported in a day we were, that in 24
or 30 miles, which was about the nation of the Indians Sivisicosis, find no water. Reached on
the sixth day, with great difficulty, for although Carconos provided us, were dying of thirst,
some of us, if this trip we did not find a root, which was off the ground, it went out large leaves, which
had water as firm as in a glass, not spilled, or consumed easily, and each have half a pint.
Two hours at night, being near the town of Sivisicosis tried to flee with their Muyeres and children,
but the general dispatched a language, which were still in their homes, and without fear any, that
would do them no harm, and they did. There was great lack of water in that province and more for
not rained in three months to fill the cisterns that collect it, or had rivers, or other beverage
that makes the cassava root, thus: - They missed a mortar crushed roots, and pulled the milky
juice: if it can be water, also make wine from these roots. There was only one well in this town,
when I put the general sentinel, to distribute water to every year, according to the measurement
given by him, and even with these Providence had great work by the lack of water, and so many,
that we remembered gold and silver, everything was crying for water. This job gave me the
grace, favor and kindness many, because their distribution was not
very low, but careful not missing water and only because she has Sivisicosis
war with neighbors. Two days spent in this town and wondering if we
were to move forward or become, cast lots, and went to prosiguiésemos.
Informóse the general land and the Indians said that in six days'
journey would come Samocosis the Indians, and that he would find two
streams good for drinking, thus continued our journey, leading some
Sivisicosis to guides, who fled the first night leaving confusing
to find the way: but you were right, and gave the Indians Samocosis,
we were in war, not wanting to hear peace: but easily routed and fled.
In the battle we turned some, they told us that in that town had been
left sick Juan Oyola three Christians, when he was in recognizing
that land of order of D. Pedro Mendoza (as told at length in Chapter
25). Did Mrs. Vickers complain of the instability of her brushwood hut, it was Rufus
Dawes who worked a wicker shield, and plastering it with clay, produced a wall that defied
the keenest wind. He made cups out of pine-knots, and plates out of bark-strips. He worked
harder than any three men. Nothing daunted him, nothing discouraged him. When Mrs. Vickers
fell sick, from anxiety and insufficient food, it was Rufus Dawes who gathered fresh leaves
for her couch, who cheered her by hopeful words, who voluntarily gave up half his own allowance
of meat that she might grow stronger on it. The poor woman and her child called him "Mr." Dawes.

Frere watched all this with dissatisfaction that amounted at times to positive hatred. Yet
he could say nothing, for he could not but acknowledge that, beside Dawes, he was incapable.
He even submitted to take orders from this escaped convict--it was so evident that the escaped
convict knew better than he. Sylvia began to look upon Dawes as a second Bates. He was, moreover,
all her own. She had an interest in him, for she had nursed and protected him. If it had not
been for her, this prodigy would not have lived. He felt for her an absorbing affection that
was almost a passion. She was his good angel, his protectress, his glimpse of Heaven. She had
given him food when he was starving, and had believed in him when the world--the world of four--had
looked coldly on him. He would have died for her, and, for love of her, hoped for the vessel
which should take her back to freedom and give him again into bondage.

But the days stole on, and no vessel appeared. Each day they eagerly scanned the watery horizon;
each day they longed to behold the bowsprit of the returning Ladybird glide past the jutting
rock that shut out the view of the harbour--but in vain. Mrs. Vickers's illness increased,
and the stock of provisions began to run short. Dawes talked of putting himself and Frere on
half allowance. It was evident that, unless succour came in a few days, they must starve.

Frere mooted all sorts of wild plans for obtaining food. He would make a journey to the settlement,
and, swimming the estuary, search if haply any casks of biscuit had been left behind in the
hurry of departure. He would set springes for the seagulls, and snare the pigeons at Liberty
Point. But all these proved impracticable, and with blank faces they watched their bag of flour
grow smaller and smaller daily. Then the notion of escape was broached. Could they construct
a raft? Impossible without nails or ropes. Could they build a boat? Equally impossible for
the same reason. Could they raise a fire sufficient to signal a ship? Easily; but what ship
would come within reach of that doubly-desolate spot? Nothing could be done but wait for a
vessel, which was sure to come for them sooner or later; and, growing weaker day by day, they
waited.

One morning Sylvia was sitting in the sun reading the "English History", which, by the accident
of fright, she had brought with her on the night of the mutiny. "Mr. Frere," said she, suddenly,
"what is an alchemist?"

"A man who makes gold," was Frere's not very accurate definition.

"Do you know one?"

"No."

"Do you, Mr. Dawes?"

"I knew a man once who thought himself one."

"What! A man who made gold?"

"After a fashion."

"But did he make gold?" persisted Sylvia.

"No, not absolutely make it. But he was, in his worship of money, an alchemist for all that."

"What became of him?"

"I don't know," said Dawes, with so much constraint in his tone that the child instinctively
turned the subject.

"Then, alchemy is a very old art?"

"Oh, yes."

"Did the Ancient Britons know it?"

"No, not as old as that!"

Sylvia suddenly gave a little scream. The remembrance of the evening when she read about the
Ancient Britons to poor Bates came vividly into her mind, and though she had since re-read
the passage that had then attracted her attention a hundred times, it had never before presented
itself to her in its full significance. Hurriedly turning the well-thumbed leaves, she read
aloud the passage which had provoked remark:--

"'The Ancient Britons were little better than Barbarians.

"A coracle! That's a boat! Can't we make a coracle, Mr. Dawes?"

CHAPTER XIII. WHAT THE SEAWEED SUGGESTED.

The question gave the marooned party new hopes. Maurice Frere, with his usual impetuosity,
declared that the project was a most feasible one, and wondered--as such men will wonder--that
it had never occurred to him before. "It's the simplest thing in the world!" he cried. "Sylvia,
you have saved us!" But upon taking the matter into more earnest consideration, it became apparent
that they were as yet a long way from the realization of their hopes. To make a coracle of
skins seemed sufficiently easy, but how to obtain the skins! The one miserable hide of the
unlucky she-goat was utterly inadequate for the purpose. Sylvia--her face beaming with the
hope of escape, and with delight at having been the means of suggesting it--watched narrowly
the countenance of Rufus Dawes, but she marked no answering gleam of joy in those eyes. "Can't
it be done, Mr. Dawes?" she asked, trembling for the reply.

The convict knitted his brows gloomily.

"Come, Dawes!" cried Frere, forgetting his enmity for an instant in the flash of new hope,
"can't you suggest something?"

Rufus Dawes, thus appealed to as the acknowledged Head of the little society, felt a pleasant
thrill of self-satisfaction. "I don't know," he said. "I must think of it. It looks easy, and
yet--" He paused as something in the water caught his eye. It was a mass of bladdery seaweed
that the returning tide was wafting slowly to the shore. This object, which would have passed
unnoticed at any other time, suggested to Rufus Dawes a new idea. "Yes," he added slowly, with
a change of tone, "it may be done. I think I can see my way."

The others preserved a respectful silence until he should speak again. "How far do you think
it is across the bay?" he asked of Frere.

"What, to Sarah Island?"

"No, to the Pilot Station."

"About four miles."

The convict sighed. "Too far to swim now, though I might have done it once. But this sort of
life weakens a man. It must be done after all."

"What are you going to do?" asked Frere.

"To kill the goat."

Sylvia uttered a little cry; she had become fond of her dumb companion. "Kill Nanny! Oh, Mr.
Dawes! What for?"

"I am going to make a boat for you," he said, "and I want hides, and thread, and tallow."

A few weeks back Maurice Frere would have laughed at such a sentence, but he had begun now
to comprehend that this escaped convict was not a man to be laughed at, and though he detested
him for his superiority, he could not but admit that he was superior.

"You can't get more than one hide off a goat, man?" he said, with an inquiring tone in his
voice--as though it was just possible that such a marvellous being as Dawes could get a second
hide, by virtue of some secret process known only to himself.

"I am going to catch other goats." "Where?"

"At the Pilot Station."

"But how are you going to get there?"

"Float across. Come, there is not time for questioning! Go and cut down some saplings, and
let us begin!"

The lieutenant-master looked at the convict prisoner with astonishment, and then gave way to
the power of knowledge, and did as he was ordered. Before sundown that evening the carcase
of poor Nanny, broken into various most unbutcherly fragments, was hanging on the nearest tree;
and Frere, returning with as many young saplings as he could drag together, found Rufus Dawes
engaged in a curious occupation. He had killed the goat, and having cut off its head close
under the jaws, and its legs at the knee-joint, had extracted the carcase through a slit made
in the lower portion of the belly, which slit he had now sewn together with string. This proceeding
gave him a rough bag, and he was busily engaged in filling this bag with such coarse grass
as he could collect. Frere observed, also, that the fat of the animal was carefully preserved,
and the intestines had been placed in a pool of water to soak.

The convict, however, declined to give information as to what he intended to do. "It's my own
notion," he said. "Let me alone. I may make a failure of it." Frere, on being pressed by Sylvia,
affected to know all about the scheme, but to impose silence on himself. He was galled to think
that a convict brain should contain a mystery which he might not share.

On the next day, by Rufus Dawes's direction, Frere cut down some rushes that grew about a mile
from the camping ground, and brought them in on his back. This took him nearly half a day to
accomplish. Short rations were beginning to tell upon his physical powers. The convict, on
the other hand, trained by a woeful experience in the Boats to endurance of hardship, was slowly
recovering his original strength.

"What are they for?" asked Frere, as he flung the bundles down. His master condescended to
reply. "To make a float."

"Well?"

The other shrugged his broad shoulders. "You are very dull, Mr. Frere. I am going to swim over
to the Pilot Station, and catch some of those goats. I can get across on the stuffed skin,
but I must float them back on the reeds."

"How the doose do you mean to catch 'em?" asked Frere, wiping the sweat from his brow.

The convict motioned to him to approach. He did so, and saw that his companion was cleaning
the intestines of the goat. The outer membrane having been peeled off, Rufus Dawes was turning
the gut inside out. This he did by turning up a short piece of it, as though it were a coat-sleeve,
and dipping the turned-up cuff into a pool of water. The weight of the water pressing between
the cuff and the rest of the gut, bore down a further portion; and so, by repeated dippings,
the whole length was turned inside out. The inner membrane having been scraped away, there
remained a fine transparent tube, which was tightly twisted, and set to dry in the sun.

"There is the catgut for the noose," said Dawes. "I learnt that trick at the settlement. Now
come here."

Frere, following, saw that a fire had been made between two stones, and that the kettle was
partly sunk in the ground near it. On approaching the kettle, he found it full of smooth pebbles.

"Take out those stones," said Dawes.

Frere obeyed, and saw at the bottom of the kettle a quantity of sparkling white powder, and
the sides of the vessel crusted with the same material.

"What's that?" he asked.

"Salt."

"How did you get it?"

"I filled the kettle with sea-water, and then, heating those pebbles red-hot in the fire, dropped
them into it. We could have caught the steam in a cloth and wrung out fresh water had we wished
to do so. But, thank God, we have plenty."

Frere started. "Did you learn that at the settlement, too?" he asked.

Rufus Dawes laughed, with a sort of bitterness in his tones. "Do you think I have been at 'the
settlement' all my life? The thing is very simple, it is merely evaporation."

Frere burst out in sudden, fretful admiration: "What a fellow you are, Dawes! What are you--I
mean, what have you been?"

A triumphant light came into the other's face, and for the instant he seemed about to make
some startling revelation. But the light faded, and he checked himself with a gesture of pain.

"I am a convict. Never mind what I have been. A sailor, a shipbuilder, prodigal, vagabond--what
does it matter? It won't alter my fate, will it?"

"If we get safely back," says Frere, "I'll ask for a free pardon for you. You deserve it."

"Come," returned Dawes, with a discordant laugh. "Let us wait until we get back."

"You don't believe me?"

"I don't want favour at your hands," he said, with a return of the old fierceness. "Let us
get to work. Bring up the rushes here, and tie them with a fishing line."

At this instant Sylvia came up. "Good afternoon, Mr. Dawes. Hard at work? Oh! what's this in
the kettle?" The voice of the child acted like a charm upon Rufus Dawes. He smiled quite cheerfully.

"Salt, miss. I am going to catch the goats with that."

"Catch the goats! How? Put it on their tails?" she cried merrily.

"Goats are fond of salt, and when I get over to the Pilot Station I shall set traps for them
baited with this salt. When they come to lick it, I shall have a noose of catgut ready to catch
them--do you understand?"

"But how will you get across?"

"You will see to-morrow."

CHAPTER XIV. A WONDERFUL DAY'S WORK.

The next morning Rufus Dawes was stirring by daylight. He first got his catgut wound upon a
piece of stick, and then, having moved his frail floats alongside the little rock that served
as a pier, he took a fishing line and a larger piece of stick, and proceeded to draw a diagram
on the sand. This diagram when completed represented a rude outline of a punt, eight feet long
and three broad. At certain distances were eight points--four on each side--into which small
willow rods were driven. He then awoke Frere and showed the diagram to him.

"Get eight stakes of celery-top pine," he said. "You can burn them where you cannot cut them,
and drive a stake into the place of each of these willow wands. When you have done that, collect
as many willows as you can get. I shall not be back until tonight. Now give me a hand with
the floats."

Frere, coming to the pier, saw Dawes strip himself, and piling his clothes upon the stuffed
goat-skin, stretch himself upon the reed bundles, and, paddling with his hands, push off from
the shore. The clothes floated high and dry, but the reeds, depressed by the weight of the
body, sank so that the head of the convict alone appeared above water. In this fashion he gained
the middle of the current, and the out-going tide swept him down towards the mouth of the harbour.

Frere, sulkily admiring, went back to prepare the breakfast--they were on half rations now,
Dawes having forbidden the slaughtered goat to be eaten, lest his expedition should prove unsuccessful--wondering
at the chance which had thrown this convict in his way. "Parsons would call it 'a special providence,'"
he said to himself. "For if it hadn't been for him, we should never have got thus far. If his
'boat' succeeds, we're all right, I suppose. He's a clever dog. I wonder who he is." His training
as a master of convicts made him think how dangerous such a man would be on a convict station.
It would be difficult to keep a fellow of such resources. "They'll have to look pretty sharp
after him if they ever get him back," he thought. "I'll have a fine tale to tell of his ingenuity."
The conversation of the previous day occurred to him. "I promised to ask for a free pardon.
He wouldn't have it, though. Too proud to accept it at my hands! Wait until we get back. I'll
teach him his place; for, after all, it is his own liberty that he is working for as well as
mine--I mean ours." Then a thought came into his head that was in every way worthy of him.
"Suppose we took the boat, and left him behind!" The notion seemed so ludicrously wicked that
he laughed involuntarily.

"What is it, Mr. Frere?"

"Oh, it's you, Sylvia, is it? Ha, ha, ha! I was thinking of something--something funny."

"Indeed," said Sylvia, "I am glad of that. Where's Mr. Dawes?"

Frere was displeased at the interest with which she asked the question.

"You are always thinking of that fellow. It's Dawes, Dawes, Dawes all day long. He has gone."

"Oh!" with a sorrowful accent. "Mamma wants to see him."

"What about?" says Frere roughly. "Mamma is ill, Mr. Frere."

"Dawes isn't a doctor. What's the matter with her?"

"She is worse than she was yesterday. I don't know what is the matter."

Frere, somewhat alarmed, strode over to the little cavern.

The "lady of the Commandant" was in a strange plight. The cavern was lofty, but narrow. In
shape it was three-cornered, having two sides open to the wind. The ingenuity of Rufus Dawes
had closed these sides with wicker-work and clay, and a sort of door of interlaced brushwood
hung at one of them. Frere pushed open this door and entered. The poor woman was lying on a
bed of rushes strewn over young brushwood, and was moaning feebly. From the first she had felt
the privation to which she was subjected most keenly, and the mental anxiety from which she
suffered increased her physical debility. The exhaustion and lassitude to which she had partially
succumbed soon after Dawes's arrival, had now completely overcome her, and she was unable to rise.

"Cheer up, ma'am," said Maurice, with an assumption of heartiness. "It will be all right in
a day or two."

"Is it you? I sent for Mr. Dawes."

"He is away just now. I am making a boat. Did not Sylvia tell you?"

"She told me that he was making one."

"Well, I--that is, we--are making it. He will be back again tonight. Can I do anything for you?"

"No, thank you. I only wanted to know how he was getting on. I must go soon--if I am to go.
Thank you, Mr. Frere. I am much obliged to you. This is a--he-e--dreadful place to have visitors,
isn't it?"

"Never mind," said Frere, again, "you will be back in Hobart Town in a few days now. We are
sure to get picked up by a ship. But you must cheer up. Have some tea or something."

"No, thank you--I don't feel well enough to eat. I am tired."

Sylvia began to cry.

"Don't cry, dear. I shall be better by and by. Oh, I wish Mr. Dawes was back."

Maurice Frere went out indignant. This "Mr." Dawes was everybody, it seemed, and he was nobody.
Let them wait a little. All that day, working hard to carry out the convict's directions, he
meditated a thousand plans by which he could turn the tables. He would accuse Dawes of violence.
He would demand that he should be taken back as an "absconder". He would insist that the law
should take its course, and that the "death" which was the doom of all who were caught in the
act of escape from a penal settlement should be enforced. Yet if they got safe to land, the
marvellous courage and ingenuity of the prisoner would tell strongly in his favour. The woman
and child would bear witness to his tenderness and skill, and plead for him. As he had said,
the convict deserved a pardon. The mean, bad man, burning with wounded vanity and undefined
jealousy, waited for some method to suggest itself, by which he might claim the credit of the
escape, and snatch from the prisoner, who had dared to rival him, the last hope of freedom.

Rufus Dawes, drifting with the current, had allowed himself to coast along the eastern side
of the harbour until the Pilot Station appeared in view on the opposite shore. By this time
it was nearly seven o'clock. He landed at a sandy cove, and drawing up his raft, proceeded
to unpack from among his garments a piece of damper. Having eaten sparingly, and dried himself
in the sun, he replaced the remains of his breakfast, and pushed his floats again into the
water. The Pilot Station lay some distance below him, on the opposite shore. He had purposely
made his second start from a point which would give him this advantage of position; for had
he attempted to paddle across at right angles, the strength of the current would have swept
him out to sea. Weak as he was, he several times nearly lost his hold on the reeds. The clumsy
bundle presenting too great a broadside to the stream, whirled round and round, and was once
or twice nearly sucked under. At length, however, breathless and exhausted, he gained the opposite
bank, half a mile below the point he had attempted to make, and carrying his floats out of
reach of the tide, made off across the hill to the Pilot Station.

Arrived there about midday, he set to work to lay his snares. The goats, with whose hides he
hoped to cover the coracle, were sufficiently numerous and tame to encourage him to use every
exertion. He carefully examined the tracks of the animals, and found that they converged to
one point--the track to the nearest water. With much labour he cut down bushes, so as to mask
the approach to the waterhole on all sides save where these tracks immediately conjoined. Close
to the water, and at unequal distances along the various tracks, he scattered the salt he had
obtained by his rude distillation of sea-water. Between this scattered salt and the points
where he judged the animals would be likely to approach, he set his traps, made after the following
manner. He took several pliant branches of young trees, and having stripped them of leaves
and twigs, dug with his knife and the end of the rude paddle he had made for the voyage across
the inlet, a succession of holes, about a foot deep. At the thicker end of these saplings he
fastened, by a piece of fishing line, a small cross-bar, which swung loosely, like the stick
handle which a schoolboy fastens to the string of his pegtop. Forcing the ends of the saplings
thus prepared into the holes, he filled in and stamped down the earth all around them. The
saplings, thus anchored as it were by the cross-pieces of stick, not only stood firm, but resisted
all his efforts to withdraw them. To the thin ends of these saplings he bound tightly, into
notches cut in the wood, and secured by a multiplicity of twisting, the catgut springes he
had brought from the camping ground. The saplings were then bent double, and the gutted ends
secured in the ground by the same means as that employed to fix the butts. This was the most
difficult part of the business, for it was necessary to discover precisely the amount of pressure
that would hold the bent rod without allowing it to escape by reason of this elasticity, and
which would yet "give" to a slight pull on the gut. After many failures, however, this happy
medium was discovered; and Rufus Dawes, concealing his springes by means of twigs, smoothed
the disturbed sand with a branch and retired to watch the effect of his labours. About two
hours after he had gone, the goats came to drink. There were five goats and two kids, and they
trotted calmly along the path to the water. The watcher soon saw that his precautions had been
in a manner wasted. The leading goat marched gravely into the springe, which, catching him
round his neck, released the bent rod, and sprang him off his legs into the air. He uttered
a comical bleat, and then hung kicking. Rufus Dawes, though the success of the scheme was a
matter of life and death, burst out laughing at the antics of the beast. The other goats bounded
off at this sudden elevation of their leader, and three more were entrapped at a little distance.
Rufus Dawes now thought it time to secure his prize, though three of the springes were as yet
unsprung. He ran down to the old goat, knife in hand, but before he could reach him the barely-dried
catgut gave way, and the old fellow, shaking his head with grotesque dismay, made off at full
speed. The others, however, were secured and killed. The loss of the springe was not a serious
one, for three traps remained unsprung, and before sundown Rufus Dawes had caught four more
goats. Removing with care the catgut that had done such good service, he dragged the carcases
to the shore, and proceeded to pack them upon his floats. He discovered, however, that the
weight was too great, and that the water, entering through the loops of the stitching in the
hide, had so soaked the rush-grass as to render the floats no longer buoyant. He was compelled,
therefore, to spend two hours in re-stuffing the skin with such material as he could find.
Some light and flock-like seaweed, which the action of the water had swathed after the fashion
of haybands along the shore, formed an excellent substitute for grass, and, having bound his
bundle of rushes lengthwise, with the goat-skin as a centre-piece, he succeeded in forming
a sort of rude canoe, upon which the carcases floated securely.

He had eaten nothing since the morning, and the violence of his exertions had exhausted him.
Still, sustained by the excitement of the task he had set himself, he dismissed with fierce
impatience the thought of rest, and dragged his weary limbs along the sand, endeavouring to
kill fatigue by further exertion. The tide was now running in, and he knew it was imperative
that he should regain the further shore while the current was in his favour. To cross from
the Pilot Station at low water was impossible. If he waited until the ebb, he must spend another
day on the shore, and he could not afford to lose an hour. Cutting a long sapling, he fastened
to one end of it the floating bundle, and thus guided it to a spot where the beach shelved
abruptly into deep water. It was a clear night, and the risen moon large and low, flung a rippling
streak of silver across the sea. On the other side of the bay all was bathed in a violet haze,
which veiled the inlet from which he had started in the morning. The fire of the exiles, hidden
behind a point of rock, cast a red glow into the air. The ocean breakers rolled in upon the
cliffs outside the bar, with a hoarse and threatening murmur; and the rising tide rippled and
lapped with treacherous melody along the sand. He touched the chill water and drew back. For
an instant he determined to wait until the beams of morning should illumine that beautiful
but treacherous sea, and then the thought of the helpless child, who was, without doubt, waiting
and watching for him on the shore, gave new strength to his wearied frame; and fixing his eyes
on the glow that, hovering above the dark tree-line, marked her presence, he pushed the raft
before him out into the sea. The reeds sustained him bravely, but the strength of the current
sucked him underneath the water, and for several seconds he feared that he should be compelled
to let go his hold. But his muscles, steeled in the slow fire of convict-labour, withstood
this last strain upon them, and, half-suffocated, with bursting chest and paralysed fingers,
he preserved his position, until the mass, getting out of the eddies along the shore-line,
drifted steadily down the silvery track that led to the settlement. After a few moments' rest,
he set his teeth, and urged his strange canoe towards the shore. Paddling and pushing, he gradually
edged it towards the fire-light; and at last, just when his stiffened limbs refused to obey
the impulse of his will, and he began to drift onwards with the onward tide, he felt his feet
strike firm ground. Opening his eyes--closed in the desperation of his last efforts--he found
himself safe under the lee of the rugged promontory which hid the fire. It seemed that the
waves, tired of persecuting him, had, with disdainful pity, cast him ashore at the goal of
his hopes. Looking back, he for the first time realized the frightful peril he had escaped,
and shuddered. To this shudder succeeded a thrill of triumph. "Why had he stayed so long, when
escape was so easy?" Dragging the carcases above high-water mark, he rounded the little promontory
and made for the fire. The recollection of the night when he had first approached it came upon
him, and increased his exultation. How different a man was he now from then! Passing up the
sand, he saw the stakes which he had directed Frere to cut whiten in the moonshine. His officer
worked for him! In his own brain alone lay the secret of escape! He--Rufus Dawes--the scarred,
degraded "prisoner", could alone get these three beings back to civilization. Did he refuse
to aid them, they would for ever remain in that prison, where he had so long suffered. The
tables were turned--he had become a gaoler! He had gained the fire before the solitary watcher
there heard his footsteps, and spread his hands to the blaze in silence. He felt as Frere would
have felt, had their positions been reversed, disdainful of the man who had stopped at home.

Frere, starting, cried, "It is you! Have you succeeded?"

Rufus Dawes nodded.

"What! Did you catch them?"

"There are four carcases down by the rocks. You can have meat for breakfast to-morrow!"

The child, at the sound of the voice, came running down from the hut. "Oh, Mr. Dawes! I am
so glad! We were beginning to despair--mamma and I."

Dawes snatched her from the ground, and bursting into a joyous laugh, swung her into the air.
"Tell me," he cried, holding up the child with two dripping arms above him, "what you will
do for me if I bring you and mamma safe home again?"

"Give you a free pardon," says Sylvia, "and papa shall make you his servant!" Frere burst out
laughing at this reply, and Dawes, with a choking sensation in his throat, put the child upon
the ground and walked away.

This was in truth all he could hope for. All his scheming, all his courage, all his peril,
would but result in the patronage of a great man like Major Vickers. His heart, big with love,
with self-denial, and with hopes of a fair future, would have this flattering unction laid
to it. He had performed a prodigy of skill and daring, and for his reward he was to be made
a servant to the creatures he had protected. Yet what more could a convict expect? Sylvia saw
how deeply her unconscious hand had driven the iron, and ran up to the man she had wounded.
"And, Mr. Dawes, remember that I shall love you always." The convict, however, his momentary
excitement over, motioned her away; and she saw him stretch himself wearily under the shadow
of a rock.

CHAPTER XV. THE CORACLE.

In the morning, however, Rufus Dawes was first at work, and made no allusion to the scene of
the previous evening. He had already skinned one of the goats, and he directed Frere to set
to work upon another. "Cut down the rump to the hock, and down the brisket to the knee," he
said. "I want the hides as square as possible." By dint of hard work they got the four goats
skinned, and the entrails cleaned ready for twisting, by breakfast time; and having broiled
some of the flesh, made a hearty meal. Mrs. Vickers being no better, Dawes went to see her,
and seemed to have made friends again with Sylvia, for he came out of the hut with the child's
hand in his. Frere, who was cutting the meat in long strips to dry in the sun, saw this, and
it added fresh fuel to the fire in his unreasonable envy and jealousy. However, he said nothing,
for his enemy had not yet shown him how the boat was to be made. Before midday, however, he
was a partner in the secret, which, after all, was a very simple one.

Rufus Dawes took two of the straightest and most tapered of the celery-top pines which Frere
had cut on the previous day, and lashed them tightly together, with the butts outwards. He
thus produced a spliced stick about twelve feet long. About two feet from either end he notched
the young tree until he could bend the extremities upwards; and having so bent them, he secured
the bent portions in their places by means of lashings of raw hide. The spliced trees now presented
a rude outline of the section of a boat, having the stem, keel, and stern all in one piece.
This having been placed lengthwise between the stakes, four other poles, notched in two places,
were lashed from stake to stake, running crosswise to the keel, and forming the knees. Four
saplings were now bent from end to end of the upturned portions of the keel that represented
stem and stern. Two of these four were placed above, as gunwales; two below as bottom rails.
At each intersection the sticks were lashed firmly with fishing line. The whole framework being
complete, the stakes were drawn out, and there lay upon the ground the skeleton of a boat eight
feet long by three broad.

Frere, whose hands were blistered and sore, would fain have rested; but the convict would not
hear of it. "Let us finish," he said regardless of his own fatigue; "the skins will be dry
if we stop."

"I can work no more," says Frere sulkily; "I can't stand. You've got muscles of iron, I suppose.
I haven't."

"They made me work when I couldn't stand, Maurice Frere. It is wonderful what spirit the cat
gives a man. There's nothing like work to get rid of aching muscles--so they used to tell me."

"Well, what's to be done now?"

"Cover the boat. There, you can set the fat to melt, and sew these hides together. Two and
two, do you see? and then sew the pair at the necks. There is plenty of catgut yonder."

"Don't talk to me as if I was a dog!" says Frere suddenly. "Be civil, can't you."

But the other, busily trimming and cutting at the projecting pieces of sapling, made no reply.
It is possible that he thought the fatigued lieutenant beneath his notice. About an hour before
sundown the hides were ready, and Rufus Dawes, having in the meantime interlaced the ribs of
the skeleton with wattles, stretched the skins over it, with the hairy side inwards. Along
the edges of this covering he bored holes at intervals, and passing through these holes thongs
of twisted skin, he drew the whole to the top rail of the boat. One last precaution remained.
Dipping the pannikin into the melted tallow, he plentifully anointed the seams of the sewn
skins. The boat, thus turned topsy-turvy, looked like a huge walnut shell covered with red
and reeking hide, or the skull of some Titan who had been scalped. "There!" cried Rufus Dawes,
triumphant. "Twelve hours in the sun to tighten the hides, and she'll swim like a duck."

The next day was spent in minor preparations. The jerked goat-meat was packed securely into
as small a compass as possible. The rum barrel was filled with water, and water bags were improvised
out of portions of the intestines of the goats. Rufus Dawes, having filled these last with
water, ran a wooden skewer through their mouths, and twisted it tight, tourniquet fashion.
He also stripped cylindrical pieces of bark, and having sewn each cylinder at the side, fitted
to it a bottom of the same material, and caulked the seams with gum and pine-tree resin. Thus
four tolerable buckets were obtained. One goatskin yet remained, and out of that it was determined
to make a sail. "The currents are strong," said Rufus Dawes, "and we shall not be able to row
far with such oars as we have got. If we get a breeze it may save our lives." It was impossible
to "step" a mast in the frail basket structure, but this difficulty was overcome by a simple
contrivance. From thwart to thwart two poles were bound, and the mast, lashed between these
poles with thongs of raw hide, was secured by shrouds of twisted fishing line running fore
and aft. Sheets of bark were placed at the bottom of the craft, and made a safe flooring. It
was late in the afternoon on the fourth day when these preparations were completed, and it
was decided that on the morrow they should adventure the journey. "We will coast down to the
Bar," said Rufus Dawes, "and wait for the slack of the tide. I can do no more now."

Sylvia, who had seated herself on a rock at a little distance, called to them. Her strength
was restored by the fresh meat, and her childish spirits had risen with the hope of safety.
The mercurial little creature had wreathed seaweed about her head, and holding in her hand
a long twig decorated with a tuft of leaves to represent a wand, she personified one of the
heroines of her books.

"I am the Queen of the Island," she said merrily, "and you are my obedient subjects. Pray,
Sir Eglamour, is the boat ready?"

"It is, your Majesty," said poor Dawes.

"Then we will see it. Come, walk in front of me. I won't ask you to rub your nose upon the
ground, like Man Friday, because that would be uncomfortable. Mr. Frere, you don't play?"

"Oh, yes!" says Frere, unable to withstand the charming pout that accompanied the words. "I'll
play. What am I to do?"

"You must walk on this side, and be respectful. Of course it is only Pretend, you know," she
added, with a quick consciousness of Frere's conceit. "Now then, the Queen goes down to the
Seashore surrounded by her Nymphs! There is no occasion to laugh, Mr. Frere. Of course, Nymphs
are very different from you, but then we can't help that."

Marching in this pathetically ridiculous fashion across the sand, they halted at the coracle.
"So that is the boat!" says the Queen, fairly surprised out of her assumption of dignity. "You
are a Wonderful Man, Mr. Dawes!"

Rufus Dawes smiled sadly. "It is very simple."

"Do you call this simple?" says Frere, who in the general joy had shaken off a portion of his
sulkiness. "By George, I don't! This is ship-building with a vengeance, this is. There's no
scheming about this--it's all sheer hard work."

"Yes!" echoed Sylvia, "sheer hard work--sheer hard work by good Mr. Dawes!" And she began to
sing a childish chant of triumph, drawing lines and letters in the sand the while, with the
sceptre of the Queen.

"Good Mr. Dawes! Good Mr. Dawes! This is the work of Good Mr. Dawes!"

Maurice could not resist a sneer.

"See-saw, Margery Daw, Sold her bed, and lay upon straw!" said he.

"Good Mr. Dawes!" repeated Sylvia. "Good Mr. Dawes! Why shouldn't I say it? You are disagreeable,
sir. I won't play with you any more," and she went off along the sand.

"Poor little child," said Rufus Dawes. "You speak too harshly to her."

Frere--now that the boat was made--had regained his self-confidence. Civilization seemed now
brought sufficiently close to him to warrant his assuming the position of authority to which
his social position entitled him. "One would think that a boat had never been built before
to hear her talk," he said. "If this washing-basket had been one of my old uncle's three-deckers,
she couldn't have said much more. By the Lord!" he added, with a coarse laugh, "I ought to
have a natural talent for ship-building; for if the old villain hadn't died when he did, I
should have been a ship-builder myself."

Rufus Dawes turned his back at the word "died", and busied himself with the fastenings of the
hides. Could the other have seen his face, he would have been struck by its sudden pallor.

"Ah!" continued Frere, half to himself, and half to his companion, "that's a sum of money to
lose, isn't it?"

"What do you mean?" asked the convict, without turning his face.

"Mean! Why, my good fellow, I should have been left a quarter of a million of money, but the
old hunks who was going to give it to me died before he could alter his will, and every shilling
went to a scapegrace son, who hadn't been near the old man for years. That's the way of the
world, isn't it?"

Rufus Dawes, still keeping his face away, caught his breath as if in astonishment, and then,
recovering himself, he said in a harsh voice, "A fortunate fellow--that son!"

"Fortunate!" cries Frere, with another oath. "Oh yes, he was fortunate! He was burnt to death
in the Hydaspes, and never heard of his luck. His mother has got the money, though. I never
saw a shilling of it." And then, seemingly displeased with himself for having allowed his tongue
to get the better of his dignity, he walked away to the fire, musing, doubtless, on the difference
between Maurice Frere, with a quarter of a million, disporting himself in the best society
that could be procured, with command of dog-carts, prize-fighters, and gamecocks galore; and
Maurice Frere, a penniless lieutenant, marooned on the barren coast of Macquarie Harbour, and
acting as boat-builder to a runaway convict.

Rufus Dawes was also lost in reverie. He leant upon the gunwale of the much-vaunted boat, and
his eyes were fixed upon the sea, weltering golden in the sunset, but it was evident that he
saw nothing of the scene before him. Struck dumb by the sudden intelligence of his fortune,
his imagination escaped from his control, and fled away to those scenes which he had striven
so vainly to forget. He was looking far away--across the glittering harbour and the wide sea
beyond it--looking at the old house at Hampstead, with its well-remembered gloomy garden. He
pictured himself escaped from this present peril, and freed from the sordid thraldom which
so long had held him. He saw himself returning, with some plausible story of his wanderings,
to take possession of the wealth which was his--saw himself living once more, rich, free, and
respected, in the world from which he had been so long an exile. He saw his mother's sweet
pale face, the light of a happy home circle. He saw himself--received with tears of joy and
marvelling affection--entering into this home circle as one risen from the dead. A new life
opened radiant before him, and he was lost in the contemplation of his own happiness.

So absorbed was he that he did not hear the light footstep of the child across the sand. Mrs.
Vickers, having been told of the success which had crowned the convict's efforts, had overcome
her weakness so far as to hobble down the beach to the boat, and now, heralded by Sylvia, approached,
leaning on the arm of Maurice Frere.

"Mamma has come to see the boat, Mr. Dawes!" cries Sylvia, but Dawes did not hear.

The child reiterated her words, but still the silent figure did not reply.

"Mr. Dawes!" she cried again, and pulled him by the coat-sleeve.

The touch aroused him, and looking down, he saw the pretty, thin face upturned to his. Scarcely
conscious of what he did, and still following out the imagining which made him free, wealthy,
and respected, he caught the little creature in his arms--as he might have caught his own daughter--and
kissed her. Sylvia said nothing; but Mr. Frere--arrived, by his chain of reasoning, at quite
another conclusion as to the state of affairs--was astonished at the presumption of the man.
The lieutenant regarded himself as already reinstated in his old position, and with Mrs. Vickers
on his arm, reproved the apparent insolence of the convict as freely as he would have done
had they both been at his own little kingdom of Maria Island. "You insolent beggar!" he cried.
"Do you dare! Keep your place, sir!"

The sentence recalled Rufus Dawes to reality. His place was that of a convict. What business
had he with tenderness for the daughter of his master? Yet, after all he had done, and proposed
to do, this harsh judgment upon him seemed cruel. He saw the two looking at the boat he had
built. He marked the flush of hope on the cheek of the poor lady, and the full-blown authority
that already hardened the eye of Maurice Frere, and all at once he understood the result of
what he had done. He had, by his own act, given himself again to bondage. As long as escape
was impracticable, he had been useful, and even powerful. Now he had pointed out the way of
escape, he had sunk into the beast of burden once again. In the desert he was "Mr." Dawes,
the saviour; in civilized life he would become once more Rufus Dawes, the ruffian, the prisoner,
the absconder. He stood mute, and let Frere point out the excellences of the craft in silence;
and then, feeling that the few words of thanks uttered by the lady were chilled by her consciousness
of the ill-advised freedom he had taken with the child, he turned on his heel, and strode up
into the bush. Ask me later with no less
love, if he knew it was there. Replied the holy man, no doubt for my sins. That is, my son:? But that
sin? Speak without rezelo. For more than kill me, could not manage, until the charity of the pious
inquisitor gave me some light. I remembered the end of my reckless words, and I was not convicted
of more than Exercises, discipline, and thirty thousand pieces of fine. They carried on to thank
the Grand Inquisitor, sugeto very friendly, I wonder what I had thought that her party. Deliciosisima
Rospondile was, and I went for my haste saliesemos companions to the country, since it is so
enjoyable. These had taken place to informed of all the great deeds delivered again by the Spaniards
for the sake of religion, and read the memories of the famous bishop of Chiapas, where it has beheaded,
burned or drowned idolatrous ten million Americans to convert them to our holy faith. Well
I think it weighs something the bishop, but rebaxe although half of the victims, is still proved
a prodigious zeal.

Atormentabame burning constantly traveling, and was determined to end my pilgrimage to Europe
for Turkey. Encamineme to this, with a firm purpose of not saying my mind again about the parties
he had seen. These Turks, dixe my companions, they're pagans have not received the holy baptism,
and certainly should be more cruel than the holy inquisitors callemonos then, while living among
Moros.

This would encourage, but was astonished to see many more temples in Turkey Christians on the
island where he was born, and even grown congregations friars, who dexaban in peace to pray
to the Virgin Mary, and Muhammad curse, some in Greek, some in Latin, and other in Armenian.
iQue honest people are the Turks! I exclaimed. The Greek and Latin Christians irreconcilable
enemies in Constantinople, and these slaves are chasing each other like dogs that bite in the
street, and that separate suits their masters. Then the grand vizier protected the Greeks: the Greek
Patriarch, who had accused me of dinner with the Latin patriarch, and was convicted of the
divan a hundred sticks on the soles of the feet, to rescue price five hundred sequins. Hanged
the next day the Grand Vizier, and the third his successor, which was not hung up there a month,
I condemn the same fine for having dinner with the patriarch Greek so that I saw in the sad
precision frequeentar not the Greek church or America. For comfort rented a beautiful Circassian,
who was the most affectionate person alone with a man, and the most devout at the mosque.
One night, the soft taste of love exclaimed giving me a hug: Allah, Ilah, Allah, are the sacramental
words of the Turks; I thought you were the love, And I said with much love: Allah, Ilah, Allah.
Ha, he said the delay, Merciful God be praised, and you are Turkish. I replied that he thanked
the Lord that had given me strength to be, and I thought it was very happy. Morning came to get
circumcised the magnet, and I have difficulty putting, I proposed the cadi of the neighborhood, a man
of good composition, I would send impaled. Free at last my foreskin and my back for a thousand
sequins, and I escape running Persia, resolved not to hear Mass in Turkey Greek or Latin,
and if ever Allah, Ilah, Allah in the moments from the likes of love.

So get to Ispahan, I asked if it was the party of black sheep or ram white. Replied that the same
one that gave me another, which makes it tender. It must be noted that Persia was still divided
into two factions, the ram's black and white. I believe that by mocking both parties, and I
found myself in a terrible commitment to gate of the city, of whom
I left paying a lot of sequins, not having to do with sheep.

Do not stop to China, which comes with an interpreter, he said that I was the country where could
live happy and free: the Tatars had invaded it they placed all blood and fire, while the reverend
Jesuit Fathers on the one hand, and the reverend fathers Dominicans second, they said winning souls
for heaven, without anybody noticing. Have never been more zealous converters, are chasing
each other with the most fervent ardor, wrote Rome whole volumes of libel, and tried by a
faithless infidels and soul. There was an awful row between them about how to do the courtesy,
the Jesuits The Chinese wanted to greet their parents to the fashion of China, and Dominicans
it was the fashion of Rome. Sucediome the Jesuits thought I was a Dominican, and they told
him that His Majesty was Tartara spy of the Pope. Commission gave the supreme council a first
mandarin to arrest me, the qual command a sheriff, who had at his command four brackets, which
seized me, and I bound with all ceremony. Conduxeronme, after hundred and forty prostrations, before
His Majesty, I wonder if I was a spy of the Pope and if it was true that the prince had to
come in person to dethrone him. I replied that Pope was a clergyman of more than seventy years,
that his statements were far more than four thousand miles those of his Sacred Majesty Tartaro-China,
that his army was two thousand soldiers standing guard with a para-waters not anyone dethroned,
and I could sleep without His Majesty fear. This was the least fatal adventure of my life, as
did more than send me to Macao, where I embarked for Europe.

It was necessary to caulk the ship off the coast of Golconda, and I take advantage of the opportunity
to see the court of the Aurengzeb, of whom there were then a thousand wonders. It was this
monarch in Delhi, and enjoy the taste imponderable façade to façade behold the day of the pompous
ceremony that received the heavenly gift that he sent the sheriff of Mecca, and was the broom
which had swept the holy house, the Kaaba, the Belho-Allah: broom is a symbol that alimpia all
the filth of the soul. It appears that did not need Aurengzeb, who was the male more Hindustan
religious whole, since it had beheaded one of his brothers, and given poison his father, and
had destroyed a scaffold twenty Omra rajas and many others, but That did not mean anything,
and nobody talked about anything but his devotion to whom is the of no other comparable, as
it was not that of the sacred majesty of the Most Serene Emperor
Morocco, Mulcy Ishmael, qual a quantas heads cut every Friday, after
to prayer.

No article I word that I had chastened the voyages, and knew it was not competent judge to adjudicate
between these two August sovereign. I confess, however, that a French boy, who locked, lacking
the respect due to the emperors of India and Marruceos, saying with great imprudence in Europe had
very principles governing sovereign rightly his states, and also frequeentaban churches, without taking
life so their parents and siblings or cut the head of his vassals. Our language interpreter realized
expressions india impias of this boy. I trained with him on other occasions I had happened, send saddle
camels, and went with the French. Later I learned that night had come and fetch him great
Aurengzeb officials, and not having found more than the interpreter, was this executed in the
main square, without flattery confessed all that was very fair palace
his death.

Quedabame to see the Africa to enjoy all the delights of our hemisphere, and saw effect. Black
corsairs seized my vessel. My boss complaining bitterly, and ask them for violating the laws
of nations. He was answered by Captain black: Your nose is long, and our flat, your hair is smooth,
and our wool curl, your skin is ashen-gray color and our Ebony, therefore under the sacrosanct
laws of nature, we must always be enemies. At fairs You give us of Guinea, as if we were pack
animals, to force us to work in not that such tough tasks as ridiculous, to vergajazos haceis
we pierce the mountains to get a kind of yellow powder that nothing is good, and that's no good,
or very, a chive Egypt. Quando So you find us, and we can only, I force them to labreis our land,
and if not you cut the noses and ears.

There was replicated as discrete reasoning. I went to the tilth of a black woman by keep my ears
and my nose, and after a year I rescued. Having seen all quanto good, beautiful and admirable
in the earth, I determined to see no more than my household gods:
I married in my country, I was a cuckold, and saw it was the most
pleasant condition of human life.

       

End of the voyages of castigating.

       

* * * * *

MICROMEGAS,

Philosophical history.

* * * * *

CHAPTER ONE.

Journey of a denizen of the world of the star Sirius to the planet Saturn.

There was one of the planets revolving around the star called Sirius, a boy much talent, whom
I had the honor of meeting in the last journey he made to our paltry nest. Micromegas was his
name, a name that falls perfectly to all large, and had eight leagues high, I mean twenty-four
thousand five steps geometric calipers.

Some algebraist, caste people are very useful to the public, to take this step in my story pen, and
calculated that taking the Lord Don Micromegas, Sirius country dweller, from soles to occiput
twenty-four thousand feet, making one hundred and twenty thousand feet King, and we citizens
of the land going through the community of five feet, and taking our globe nine thousand miles
in circumference, it is absolutely essential that the planet where our national hero has fully
twenty-one million six hundred thousand times circumference of our earth. Well, nothing is more
common and more natural, and states certain princelings of Germany or Italy, which may beating
in half an hour, compared with Turkey, Russia, or Spanish America, is an image, still very distant
from Indeed, the differences that nature has established among men.

It is the height of His Excellency that we said, where all our painters colegiran and sculptors,
whose body might be about fifty thousand feet in circumference king because is very well proportioned.
His understanding of the most insightful is that you can see he knows a multitude of things, and some
have invented: only bordered with the two hundred and fifty years, while a student at the
Jesuit college of your planet, as there style is common, I guess by the force of his intelligence
over fifty propositions of Euclid, which are eighteen but did Blaise Pascal, the qual having guessed,
according to her sister, thirty and two playing, became, walking
the years, fed medium geometry, and malisimo metaphysical.

Age of four hundred and fifty years, but not to get out of childhood, dissects a very small
insects that did not reach a hundred feet in diameter, and the microscopes were hiding regular,
and wrote a book about them very funny, but that he brought not a few surprises. The mufti
of his country, not less ticklish than ignorant, found in his book proposals suspicious, ill-sounding,
rash, heretical, or smelling of heresy, and he chased the death, then tried to see if the substantial
form of fleas from Sirius was of the same nature that of the snails. Micromegas Defendiose
salty, declared the women in their favor, because after two hundred and twenty years which had lasted
the lawsuit, did Mufti condemn the book for qualifiers that he had not read nor could read, and
was banished court time the author for eight years.

Not much afflicted him out of a court full of intrigue and gossip. He composed a few tenths very
funny against the mufti, that this does not give a damn, and devoted himself to travel planet
to planet, only to perfect his reason and his heart, as they say. Those who are used to walking
in car cufflinks, or chaise was amazed at the carriages up there, because we, in our ball of
mud, do not understand other styles than ours. Fully knew the laws of gravitation and the forces
attractive and repulsive our walker, and he used them so well that
now mounted in a sunbeam, now riding a kite, balloon balloon went
he and his servants, as well as a paxarillo flits from branch to branch.

Soon there run the Milky Way; and I regret to confess that never could descry, among the stars that
is planted, that beautiful sky empyrean, who with his spyglass discovered the illustrious Derham,
curate [Footnote: English Wise, author of Theology astronomical, and other works, who strives to
prove the existence of God by the contemplation of the wonders of nature.]. I do not say why that
has not been very well Mr Derham, God forbid size of committing mistake, but after Micromegas was
in the country, and was a good observer: I do not want to contradict anyone.

After many journeys came a day Micromegas the globe of Saturn, and although he was used to see new
things, yet we stop confusing the smallness of this planet and its inhabitants, and could
not release the smile of superiority that can not contain more sane sometimes. Truth is that
Saturn is nine hundred times larger than the earth, and the inhabitants the country are dwarfs
of about two thousand yards, with a short difference in height. Riose to top of them with their
servants, as does an Italian musician Lulli's music, when it comes
to France, but Sirius was the man of reason, and quickly recognized
that one could very well be that thought to have nothing of ridiculous,
since there from six thousand feet height.

Acostumbrose to Saturninus, after having been shocked, and became
a close friend of the secretary of the Academy of Saturn, a man of
great talent, which in truth nothing was invented, but very nicely
gave account of the inventions of others, and to regularly couplets
girls and big load.

I'll post here, to the satisfaction of my readers, a conversation
very surprised that the secretary had one day Mr. Micromegas.

CHAPTER II.

Sirius Talk to the inhabitants of Saturn.

HE went to bed, went up to his face to the secretary, and said Micromegas: We confess that is
very diverse nature. Truth is, he said the Saturnino; is nature as a garden, whose flowers
.... Ha, he said the other, DEXA gardening. As it is, followed the Secretary, as a reunion of
blonde and brunette, whose adornments ..... What do I care about your brunette? interrupted
the other. Or as a gallery of squares, whose images ...... No, Sir, no, replied the traveler,
nature is as nature. ? A what the hell you walk looking for those comparisons? For to rejoice,
'said the secretary. If I do not want to recreate me, what I want you to teach, "said the traveler.
Tell me what senses are first quantos men of your globe. Nothing more than seventy-two, he
said the academic and everyday We complain about such a shortage, that our imagination is dexa
back our needs, and we believe that with our seventy-two senses, our annulled, and our five
moons do not have enough, and it is true that despite our great curiosity and passion that of
our seventy-two senses are daughters, we have plenty of time to get bored. Well what I think,
he said Micromegas, because on our globe we have about a thousand ways, and we still are not
that vague desires, not that concern, which constantly tells us that we are girl thing, and that
other beings much more perfect. I made a few voyages, and have seen other very inferior to
us mortals, and others who are far superior, but I have seen no with no more desires than real
needs, and more needs satisfaction. Perhaps a day will END a country where nothing is needed, but
I have not been told of this country. Then threw themselves to form conjectures on Saturnino
and Sirius, but after many no less ingenious reasoning uncertain, was forced to re-establish
facts. ? Quanto long live? he said the Syrian. Ha, very little, "replied the man from Saturn. The
same is true in our country, 'said the Syrian, we are always complaining about the shortness
of life. Must is that it is universal pension of nature. Alas! our lives, 'said the Saturnino
is five hundred revolutions of the sun movie (coming to be fifteen thousand years, or near,
counting as us.) You see that it is almost die so that one is born: it is our existence one
point, a moment our lives, our globe an atom, and each instruction is just beginning something, when
death snatches before experience. As for me I dare not any draft form, and I am like a drop of
water in the vast ocean, and what more sonroxo cause me in your presence, quan look ridiculous
in this figure do world. Micromegas answered her: If you were not a philosopher, would have, the
apprehension of desconsolaros, telling that is our life seven hundred times more extensive than
yours, but you well know that when has been to restore the body to the elements, and revive
differently Baxo nature that is what you call die, Quando is reached, say, this moment of metamorphosis,
it matters little have lived forever or one day alone, two is the same. I have been in countries
where people live a thousand times more than mine, and I saw that still complained, but are
everywhere sugetos of reason, who can resign, and give thanks to the author of nature, which
with a wonderful kind of uniformity has spread in the universe varieties with an endless profusion.
So par example, all people who think they are different, and they all look in the gift of thinking
and desire. Everywhere is the matter extensive, but each has different properties globe. ? Qantas of
these properties have your area? If you speak of the properties without the quale we could
not survive our globe as he is, he said the Saturnino, do not exceed three hundred, to wit the extension,
impenetrability, mobililad, gravity, divisibility, etc.. Without doubt, replied the walker,
which is sufficient for such a short number of breeder plan your intimate room, and in all
things I love his wisdom, because if all I see differences, also provides in all proportions. Your globe
is small, and so are its inhabitants, you have few feelings, and your subject has a few properties:
this is the disposal of Providence. ? Color is your sun well tested? Very ashen white, 'said the Saturnino,
and when we divide one of its rays, we find that has seven colors. The strip our flesh, he
said the Syrian, and we thirty-nine primary colors. In all quanta have examined, I have not
found a sun that looks like another, and not on your planet is a
face that no differs from all others.

After many queestiones analog, was reported to be different substances quantas Saturn knew, and
was answered that he had until about thirty, God, space, matter, people who feel large, extensive
beings who feel and think, people they think and are not widespread, which penetrate, and not
penetrate, and so on. The Sirius world in which there are three hundred, and that he had discovered
in his travels up to three thousand, I leave necessarily extraordinary philosopher stunned to
Saturn.

Finally, having communicated a quanto another almost all knew and
did not know many things, and having discoursed for space of an entire
solar revolution, were determined to make a short journey together
philosophical.

CHAPTER III.

Journey of two people from Sirius and Saturn

They were to board our two walkers in the atmosphere of Saturn with a very decent provision of
mathematical instruments, when the lady of Saturninus, who knew, it came to make bitter complaints.
This was a very graceful brunette, who had no more than fifteen hundred feet high, but repaired
with the boy through his body. iha cruel! exclaimed, I've resisted after fifteen hundred years,
when I had just given up, having no above last hundred years in your arms, go ime abandoned by traveling
with a giant another world!

Come on, you're not more than a curious, and have never been in love, that if you were Saturnino
legitimate, most constant serious. Where are you going? ? You want? less wandering is that you
our five moons, and less changeable our annulled. This is just, I want anymore. Philosopher embraced her,
weeping with her, as philosopher, and the lady, after having fainted, went to console with
a dude.

They cut our two curious and jumped first to nullify they found very flattened as you guessed
a famous inhabitant of our globule, and from there they went to moon in moon. A comet passing
close to the last, and threw him with his servants and instruments.

Just had walked a hundred and fifty million miles, they encountered satellites Jupiter. Alighted
on this planet, where they stopped a year, and learned very secret curious, which would have
given to the press, had it not been for the inquisitors propositions have found something hard
to swallow, but I managed to read the manuscript the library of the Most Illustrious Archbishop
of ... allowed me to register their books, with all the generosity and kindness that characterize
such an illustrious prelate.

Let us return however to our walkers. Leaving Jupiter, passed through a space of about a hundred
million miles, and cost the planet Mars, the qual, as everyone knows, is five times smaller than
our globule, and they saw two moons that serve this planet, and have not our astronomers have discovered.
While the abbot was written in much Donayre Ximenez against the existence of these moons,
but I appeal to those run by analogy, all great philosophers who know very well that it will be possible
to live without two moons Mars at least, being so far from the sun. Anyway, they seemed to our
travelers thing girl, who feared not finding a comfortable inn, and went forward as do two Quando
walkers encounter poor sales in the wilderness, and continue to the
next village.

But then he repented the Syrian and his partner, who walked a long
period without finding hostel.

After a little light descry, which was the land, which seemed very
mean thing to people who had come from Jupiter.

However, rezelando repent again, were determined to land on it. They went into the comet's tail,
and finding an aurora borealis by hand, went inside and brought ashore
to the north shore of the Baltic Sea, five of July 1737.

CHAPTER
IV.

That accounts of what happened on the globe of the earth.

Having
rested a bit, had lunch two mountains that are then cooked his servants
with much toilet.

Rufus Dawes raised his head, and, seeing the approaching vessel, awoke to the consciousness
of his duty. With a low laugh, full of unutterable bitterness, he placed the burden he had
borne so tenderly in the arms of the lieutenant, and moved to the blazing bows.

          *          *          *          *          *

The brig was close upon them. Her canvas loomed large and dusky, shadowing the sea. Her wet
decks shone in the morning sunlight. From her bulwarks peered bearded and eager faces, looking
with astonishment at this burning boat and its haggard company, alone on that barren and stormy
ocean.

Frere, with Sylvia in his arms, waited for her.

END OF BOOK THE SECOND

BOOK III.--PORT ARTHUR. 1838.

CHAPTER I. A LABOURER IN THE VINEYARD.

"Society in Hobart Town, in this year of grace 1838, is, my dear lord, composed of very curious
elements." So ran a passage in the sparkling letter which the Rev. Mr. Meekin, newly-appointed
chaplain, and seven-days' resident in Van Diemen's Land, was carrying to the post office, for
the delectation of his patron in England. As the reverend gentleman tripped daintily down the
summer street that lay between the blue river and the purple mountain, he cast his mild eyes
hither and thither upon human nature, and the sentence he had just penned recurred to him with
pleasurable appositeness. Elbowed by well-dressed officers of garrison, bowing sweetly to well-dressed
ladies, shrinking from ill-dressed, ill-odoured ticket-of-leave men, or hastening across a
street to avoid being run down by the hand-carts that, driven by little gangs of grey-clothed
convicts, rattled and jangled at him unexpectedly from behind corners, he certainly felt that
the society through which he moved was composed of curious elements. Now passed, with haughty
nose in the air, a newly-imported government official, relaxing for an instant his rigidity
of demeanour to smile languidly at the chaplain whom Governor Sir John Franklin delighted to
honour; now swaggered, with coarse defiance of gentility and patronage, a wealthy ex-prisoner,
grown fat on the profits of rum. The population that was abroad on that sunny December afternoon
had certainly an incongruous appearance to a dapper clergyman lately arrived from London, and
missing, for the first time in his sleek, easy-going life, those social screens which in London
civilization decorously conceal the frailties and vices of human nature. Clad in glossy black,
of the most fashionable clerical cut, with dandy boots, and gloves of lightest lavender--a
white silk overcoat hinting that its wearer was not wholly free from sensitiveness to sun and
heat--the Reverend Meekin tripped daintily to the post office, and deposited his letter. Two
ladies met him as he turned.

"Mr. Meekin!"

Mr. Meekin's elegant hat was raised from his intellectual brow and hovered in the air, like
some courteous black bird, for an instant. "Mrs. Jellicoe! Mrs. Protherick! My dear leddies,
this is an unexpected pleasure! And where, pray, are you going on this lovely afternoon? To
stay in the house is positively sinful. Ah! what a climate--but the Trail of the Serpent, my
dear Mrs. Protherick--the Trail of the Serpent--" and he sighed.

"It must be a great trial to you to come to the colony," said Mrs. Jellicoe, sympathizing with
the sigh.

Meekin smiled, as a gentlemanly martyr might have smiled. "The Lord's work, dear leddies--the
Lord's work. I am but a poor labourer in the vineyard, toiling through the heat and burden
of the day." The aspect of him, with his faultless tie, his airy coat, his natty boots, and
his self-satisfied Christian smile, was so unlike a poor labourer toiling through the heat
and burden of the day, that good Mrs. Jellicoe, the wife of an orthodox Comptroller of Convicts'
Stores, felt a horrible thrill of momentary heresy. "I would rather have remained in England,"
continued Mr. Meekin, smoothing one lavender finger with the tip of another, and arching his
elegant eyebrows in mild deprecation of any praise of his self-denial, "but I felt it my duty
not to refuse the offer made me through the kindness of his lordship. Here is a field, leddies--a
field for the Christian pastor. They appeal to me, leddies, these lambs of our Church--these
lost and outcast lambs of our Church."

Mrs. Jellicoe shook her gay bonnet ribbons at Mr. Meekin, with a hearty smile. "You don't know
our convicts," she said (from the tone of her jolly voice it might have been "our cattle").
"They are horrible creatures. And Dona Beatriz - such was the respect
and consideration that he had wanted - the Count is angry that anyone could imagine he dared
to desire.

The Count would therefore appear as fine friend, as an admirer and constant as that He delights
in talking, watching, communicating thoughts, without interest or purpose it is not clear as crystal
and gold. To this there was no need to hide who spoke spend time with Dona Beatriz ear. It was
not secret to conceal the sinful, but in order not to pollute the holy. It was not the mystery that
surrounds the offender is over honest people, but the mystery of
undertaken with regard to the profane vulgar.

Unfortunately, the profane vulgar was not content with believing in the sanctity of mystery, and
I explained a bit tired so uplifting.

Almost every night and Condesito Beatriz had a lengthy duet, unheard of for all except for them.

Don
Braulio before the duo took place just as mysterious as Don Braulio was absent. Neither they are
modest, or Don Braulio was worried.

It seems that all three lived equally convinced of the pristine innocence of it all, although
would also that the conviction was entirely consumed in three of them, not leaving anything for
the rest the world.

All the pundits were complaining about the low of the sham and shame, which that the taking of
Conde, Beatriz, and even the great Don Braulio, in whom mercy to fame was getting to be too clever,
no person would involve candid and ignorance, but notorious and vile pretense.

More extreme and who spread this bad opinion was Arturo, the poet. In his verse was almost always
religious and moral, and ascetic, and mystic, without mixing mills, but in prose, as if the verses
had spent all the poetry of his soul, was most prosaic and realistic than you can imagine.
This dissonance between his words and his words triggered rhythmic
the pace was a strange contradiction.

The subway and the consonants seemed imperative categorical conscience. He recited his poems,
and listeners were inclined to regard as a holy father, Dr. enlightened and blessed servant of
God. He spoke without number and without rhyme, and was afraid to hear it was a runaway tyke,
without belief and without respect for anything.

The night following the morning when the conference took place between
the Count and his mother, Count, therefore he was moody, mixed very
little in general conversation the gathering of Rosita.

He spoke a few words with her, spoke briefly with Ines, who was there, greeted the pundits,
and went to make his apart with Dona Beatriz which was apparently
longer and more intimate than ever.

Don Braulio wine that night and saw the addition to the usual serenity.

The

gatherings usually lasted until about two, but don Braulio and ladies
used leave before one o'clock.

So they did that night.

The Count of Alhedín, though he had won more chat, did not dare to leave when it was Dona Beatriz,
or immediately afterwards. It was, entering the general run of those
who were there until the last minute.

Conde did not speak, however, because he was preoccupied and imaginative.

The poet, usually was the one who made the biggest expense of words when they spoke the Count.
That night the poet was in vein. Talked a lot, say a thousand jocosidades, they are laughing,
and he was one who got drunk to talk and to be applauded, rather than drinking wine and spirits.
Arthur, perhaps without having taken a drink to his lips, he was drunk.

So, seeing the Count silent, began to encourage him to speak, throwing some poorly disguised barbs
on the passions purely spiritual about how happy and peaceful they must live their husbands whose
wives inspire such passions, and on discussions semi-divine must
have that and love.

- God - the poet said - they unties the tongue
forcibly gives them a richer language and perfect that all known that
befall mankind.

The charms that have them to say they find no adequate expression in the jargon that we understand.
How is possible that the speech itself that ask us to eat, drink
and other necessities mechanics, will be asked what such love and
will ask?

Even the idea of ​​what they ask and get barely perceived by the
layman but a confused way back in the depths and dark of the soul,
there in the unfathomable depths of feeling with the sense of spirit,
forgetting about the other senses.

Arthur was always pompous and ironic phrases like that the high finished exclaiming

- What? Am I clear? Do I understand or not understand the metaphysics of love?

Count suppressed his disgust: it was given the hint when I could, and if he said any word was
by gravity, without following the joke.

- There are plenty of love - remained the poet - all sons of the nymphs: Amores terrestrial
they are what we usually know, but there are also one and only love, son Venus Urania, which, as
reported by the fabulist Aesop, and then many others have repeated poets and fabulous, live almost
forever in heaven. The immortal gods can not live without him. The presence of this Love is the
bliss of the gods. However, this Love is so good and pious, that hurt the misery and baseness of men,
calls occasionally licensed to Jupiter to descend to earth and bring us true consolation and reflecting
the light of glory. With difficulty Jupiter granted this license, to him and other immortals find
it extremely distressing lack of love, but when granting the license, that is one century at most, and soon,
Love descends between us, and leaving younger siblings whenever her shadowing, wounding vulgar souls,
uses his arrows little gold cross lofty and divine souls. Of these souls, and wounded, then rises
a stream of pure ideas, feelings and concepts near superhuman perfection,
they are like bright beacons placed at intervals in history, in the
dark and rough road that follows the wandering humanity.

Great news, gentlemen, great news! Correspondence not yet been published,
But be you for sure.

This has recently come Celestial love between us.

As much as it hides out of modesty, we have come to see him. It is full of grace and truth. His
glory dazzles us, but we are not blind.

Neither this parody of the most beautiful fable of Aesop Count put any comment.

The poet went more excited:

- Love the sky is hurt, as I said, some souls di cartello cousin, but after all while living here,
on earth, it always goes wandering and homeless. Choose the soul nobler, purer and more beautiful,
and makes his home there. This soul is usually a woman, often married. Imagine, what honor,
what distinction for the husband!

In the present case, the coming of Love in our godless and vicious Iron Age, the mansion Love,
its headquarters, as it were, is the soul of a married woman. Will gap and proud her husband?

Count
here and could not contain and conceal his anger. Repressed, however, the language, because
in full gathering seemed ridiculous and disgusting insults unleashed
on against scurrilous Arthur.

His eyes only denoted his anger. The poet looked as if to devour the fire in his eyes.

Rosita, by lightness of character, thoughtlessness, had been carried away from the talk poet and had laughed
at the jokes.

Arthur had been very funny, making a droll emphasis their expressions and accompanying them with
appropriate gesticulation. But Rosita came to, he warned how angry was the Count and, although
late, the poet silenced.

When the men left the gathering together and were in the street and
not hit Count to restrain his anger.

Lost all respect, began to roll all the wisdom, foresaw no result some, and turning to Arthur,
he said, if quietly, not so much that any of the other commentators could not hear:

- Know it to your government. Nor fables of Aesop, or with quotes from Plato, or in any way, however
indirect it may be, consent to forward that, in my presence, even when not I hereby put on solfa
my friendship with Beatriz. If I know you speak another Instead of it, which allude to it,
you make fun of her husband, she will feel much, but I'll break their
necks.

Count these words pronounced with such seriousness and energy, which Arthur could not slip taking
them to laugh. It was therefore necessary to answer seriously. And to answer it seriously,
being man who was respected, he had no recourse but to answer as answered

- I also feel very much - he said - but as I know, I know that I will continue putting in solfa
your friendship with Mrs Beatrice and I will continue making fun of credulity or cunning Don Braulio
whenever I please, that truce is excused or expected to grant me.

Rompámonos their necks in the act, as you wish.

A few more words intervened between the two. In the same pundits who were present elected either
the sponsors, who arranged a saber duel for tomorrow morning.

Sponsors, as people of opinion, made extraordinary efforts to cut the set friendly, polite plea becoming
the threat of Conde, and generous pledge not torn down by injunction of the poet, not to speak
ill of the love of heaven, but Conde and poet were so heated that
not even the first paved to play the role of supplicant, nor the second,
even if you begged on his knees, said he was able to shut up and not
to be cursing and mocking, as long as it was in the mood for, which
was often.

There was therefore forced to fight.

Already on the ground, received the Count the whole series of indiscretions that he had committed
to reach that end, which could not retreat, and from which all success
was bad.

Bad and if by chance dingy Arthur, who in life had taken a sword in his hand, struck him or
will pate; bad and cruel if he, who went every day to the weapons room, stabbed to taste the
poor poet, bad and Remal, now come out victorious, sometimes defeated, because of all Still,
the launch would be counterproductive. The launch was to not murmur of Dona Beatriz, and the Count
was set to make her name resound in the ten thousand trumpets of Fame.

But all this would have mattered on time and do not think so. Then there was another discretion
to be a saber.

The saber is given, and, as expected, received Arturo. For this, no injury care was. A month
of bed to heal enough for the poet.

Also fulfilled, as expected unless the other provision. It was not dog or cat Madrid not to speak
of the love of Count frantic by the wife of a clerk in the Treasury, of his crazy claim that it is
respected as angelic creature, semi-divine, and out of order and conditions that are used naturally,
and his singular affection towards her husband suffered, whose Count suffering had the impossible
determination that nobody would know or riese.

As Earl was not to challenge and kill all Madrid, particularly women, story of her affair with
Beatriz, imagined or real, but embroidered and discussed by all styles, circulated on talk shows,
cafes, casinos and theaters.

Beatriz's reputation was more hurt and that the body of Arthur, is the lance he had with him
the Earl of Alhedín gentleman, incapable, by persuasion and by the violence, to convince anyone
of his Platonism.

XVI

Among the many mistakes that I put the critics, nothing grieves me as much as you accuse me Women
always painting something rebellious and outrageous. "Who is the
author? - Say -.

Have not known but light women? Why not us in their stories to the honest and pure, which
always fulfilled his duty, which can and should serve as a model? " "This author - add - hates women
or has very bad opinion of them."

Against unjust accusation and I have to say that Clara, and Lucia, El Comendador Mendoza Irene
even less in The Doctor Faustino, without all those clothes and requirements can and should
make women an angelic creature. I will not deny, however, that Dona Blanca had sinned, and that
the ferocity of his penance was worse than the sin itself, that Pepita Jimenez was too flirtatious
and more passionate than reasonable, and not once in love knew contained, and as a gun shot
to the hair, that Mary, the immortal friend, is abandoned his passion as if I had not had free
will, as if he had been driven by an irresistible force, that was
interested Constancita, calculator and capricious, and Rosita did
not recognize human or divine law other than his whim, but in all
these women - no hold otherwise - are noticed in the midst of its
biggest losses, such yearning for the infinite love so sweet so tender
and passionate earnestness to the role of Savior and Redeemer to provide
a hint of bliss or happiness for man wanted, even at the expense of
his own condemnation, that effortlessly forgive seem sympathetic.

Moreover, I have to repeat here, but little of tired: a complete virtue you can not take action
that interested and has some dramatic, horrific monsters not imagine, persecutors of that virtue.

As
well accuse me, and certainly more so, poverty of imagination, should
not wonder I've had so far not enough verve to make up these monsters.

Matter, finally, be aware that, in these stories called secular novels, not characters should
be left as allegories of virtues or vices, but to take real life, where, typically, we see in
them a certain mix of good and bad qualities of vices and virtues, foibles starts sublime
and pathetic, which is what is the truth of the characters and what
gives the characters mock, if the author's style is able to both more
vivid and persistent reality that the characters historical.

In a poetic narrative that this is either novel, although the prose is written, a woman immaculate,
a saint, an angel, can not be mixed in the action but at the expense of others characters,
it is best to appear, without reaching the end of his robe to mud land, and end up vanishing into
the ether or up to the empyrean. His feet hardly be touch the ground.

In short, either way all is said, as I aspire to give aesthetic rules for writing novels, it
is certain that I, not because I think badly of women, but for lack of imagination and the misfortune
of not having found frequently holy - not saints either - in this sublunary world, I have to allow
me to introduce this story, true and simple, a new character, women too, who is far more than any
other of my heroes to be a paragon of perfection, but strongly involved in the events that I refer.

This
woman is a Marquesa. His title is not necessary to say. The call it by its name baptism, as if
we have the greatest intimacy with her. The call Elisa.

It was about three years had been widowed. Not yet reached age thirty. She had no children. It was delicious
and very elegant.

Not even his fiercest enemy was denied discreet, witty, fun and cheerful. Not even his most
determined dared to call worshipers beautiful, nor its detractors ever molested a description
of it ugly. Everyone unanimously the distinguished declared eminent degree. But what stood out
and why? It was not too high or too low or too white or too dark, or blonde or brunette. In
none of their there was nothing unusual features or markings. His nose was not long and flat,
not too regular or too irregular, her mouth was not big or girl, against her teeth could not
pitch anyone an epigram, but also, without exaggeration, could compare with the pearls. In
short: crushed and analyzed all the visible and tangible items of
Elisa, for example, hands, waist, feet, arms, throat and forehead,
there was nothing to draw attention or for good nor bad.

The symmetrical layout or order of all these parties had nothing either of singular. The Elisa
was unique in the set, but in a strange way. The expression his face was no doubt what was
notable, which, more remarkable, made her unforgettable for those who had seen her only once.

It
seems that his appearance was for all souls a force similar to that of the press stamping on the
bronze or gold, with indelible and firm drawing, the image that carries If the die. And Elisa
also made so that, yielding to all the demands of fashion voluble,
taking all its changes in dress and hairstyle, always kept unchanged,
immutable, the material traces of his person, as the figure in the
steel die is recorded.

Time itself seemed to have stood for it for eight years. At least Elisa required contemplate too closely
to notice some very slight on his face passing of time that had happened.

Contábanse such wonders about the seductive power of Elisa, that even the fools men invulnerable
and most precious love feared if they were to treat it a lot.

It was assumed frenzied passion that had inspired, stubborn, deep and lasting, and that she,
or had remained insensitive, or had yielded for an instant a fleeting sympathy, a hallucination
momentary before mastering his heart had vanished as a dream.

If you had raised an idol on the altar of his mind, he was overthrown
at once.

The Marquis, the husband of Elisa, was a gentleman and very comm'il faut negligible. Their marriage
done for reasons of state and treasury, and had acted in love, or had created later. The full
vanity, a perfect vacuum around baby, all estimation and confidence, from the day of the wedding
until the day of death had been neatly hidden under the polite forms of mutual consideration,
respect and cold the most delicate gallantry.

Moreover, Elisa had always gone through modest and prudent. Not cited, during marriage, a triumph
that love alone would have brought upon it.

Had I known instill or without knowing or intending it, had raised expectations that did not
come to fruition.

Until now a widow, Elisa had not frequently addressed to the Earl of Alhedín.

Verle and wish her boyfriend was in all one. She was a genius so that we would proceed rudely called
flirtation, because his vanity was so subtle, so shoot and so refined, I needed a name more pilgrims
and newer. So, as I have come to find out, because of Elisa had to enter the elegant and aristocratic
dialect Madrid the English word flirtation, which begins and even
disseminated abasement.

A few years ago was a word that was silent except in the most elegant rooms and only if applied
to another woman who was not Elisa.

Elisa began, then, to flirt with Condesito.

He soon obtained inspire love a little, but not the Condesito of those who surrender and enslave
easily.

The flirtation leaves no trace, no trace, no sign of injury,
and may yet enter deep in the soul and hurt her death. The most essential
excellence of the flirtation is, what I have said, to shoot darts
so invisible, that the person who shoots can be taken for dismissing,
in favor augur without ever Atine or the foundation or the testimony
of omen, and hopes to evoke under such mysterious spells that are
seen by those ruling. The question that a woman has done something
to encourage, must remain standing. On this question should appear
another no less important, namely because the woman has done something
in that sense, what it has done with reflective or raptured will?
Was there any inspiration was deliberate or unconscious?

It is fair
to note that this theory about the flirtation has told me a lady very
talented and very learned in such studies. From what I can not answer,
is that the word English has the same meaning everywhere. Perhaps
flirtation and coquetry are in Britain perfect synonyms. But here
we try to philology. It matters little value etymological and genuine
speech. What matters is that the word address flirtation, in the elegant
salons of Spain, has a very different value, it means a refinement,
a subtlety of coquetry, flirtation rather plain and simple usually
is customary.

"That I am not half good enough for you," cried Frere, with sudden vehemence. "I--"

"It's my happiness you've got to think of, Captain Bruin," said the girl. "You've saved my
life, haven't you, and I should be wicked if I didn't love you! No, no more kisses," she added,
putting out her hand. "Come, papa, it's cool now; let's walk in the garden, and leave Maurice
to think of his own unworthiness."

Maurice watched the retreating pair with a puzzled expression. "She always leaves me for her
father," he said to himself. "I wonder if she really loves me, or if it's only gratitude, after
all?"

He had often asked himself the same question during the five years of his wooing, but he had
never satisfactorily answered it.

CHAPTER II. SARAH PURFOY'S REQUEST.

The evening passed as it had passed a hundred times before; and having smoked a pipe at the
barracks, Captain Frere returned home. His home was a cottage on the New Town Road--a cottage
which he had occupied since his appointment as Assistant Police Magistrate, an appointment
given to him as a reward for his exertions in connection with the Osprey mutiny. Captain Maurice
Frere had risen in life. Quartered in Hobart Town, he had assumed a position in society, and
had held several of those excellent appointments which in the year 1834 were bestowed upon
officers of garrison. He had been Superintendent of Works at Bridgewater, and when he got his
captaincy, Assistant Police Magistrate at Bothwell. The affair of the Osprey made a noise;
and it was tacitly resolved that the first "good thing" that fell vacant should be given to
the gallant preserver of Major Vickers's child.

Major Vickers also prospered. He had always been a careful man, and having saved some money,
had purchased land on favourable terms. The "assignment system" enabled him to cultivate portions
of it at a small expense, and, following the usual custom, he stocked his run with cattle and
sheep. He had sold his commission, and was now a comparatively wealthy man. He owned a fine
estate; the house he lived in was purchased property. He was in good odour at Government House,
and his office of Superintendent of Convicts caused him to take an active part in that local
government which keeps a man constantly before the public. Major Vickers, a colonist against
his will, had become, by force of circumstances, one of the leading men in Van Diemen's Land.
His daughter was a good match for any man; and many ensigns and lieutenants, cursing their
hard lot in "country quarters", many sons of settlers living on their father's station among
the mountains, and many dapper clerks on the civil establishment envied Maurice Frere his good
fortune. Some went so far as to say that the beautiful daughter of "Regulation Vickers" was
too good for the coarse red-faced Frere, who was noted for his fondness for low society, and
overbearing, almost brutal demeanour. No one denied, however, that Captain Frere was a valuable
officer. It was said that, in consequence of his tastes, he knew more about the tricks of convicts
than any man on the island. It was said, even, that he was wont to disguise himself, and mix
with the pass-holders and convict servants, in order to learn their signs and mysteries. When
in charge at Bridgewater it had been his delight to rate the chain-gangs in their own hideous
jargon, and to astound a new-comer by his knowledge of his previous history. The convict population
hated and cringed to him, for, with his brutality, and violence, he mingled a ferocious good
humour, that resulted sometimes in tacit permission to go without the letter of the law. Yet,
as the convicts themselves said, "a man was never safe with the Captain"; for, after drinking
and joking with them, as the Sir Oracle of some public-house whose hostess he delighted to
honour, he would disappear through a side door just as the constables burst in at the back,
and show himself as remorseless, in his next morning's sentence of the captured, as if he had
never entered a tap-room in all his life. His superiors called this "zeal"; his inferiors "treachery".
For himself, he laughed. "Everything is fair to those wretches," he was accustomed to say.

As the time for his marriage approached, however, he had in a measure given up these exploits,
and strove, by his demeanour, to make his acquaintances forget several remarkable scandals
concerning his private life, for the promulgation of which he once cared little. When Commandant
at the Maria Island, and for the first two years after his return from the unlucky expedition
to Macquarie Harbour, he had not suffered any fear of society's opinion to restrain his vices,
but, as the affection for the pure young girl, who looked upon him as her saviour from a dreadful
death, increased in honest strength, he had resolved to shut up those dark pages in his colonial
experience, and to read therein no more. He was not remorseful, he was not even disgusted.
He merely came to the conclusion that, when a man married, he was to consider certain extravagances
common to all bachelors as at an end. He had "had his fling, like all young men", perhaps he
had been foolish like most young men, but no reproachful ghost of past misdeeds haunted him.
His nature was too prosaic to admit the existence of such phantoms. Sylvia, in her purity and
excellence, was so far above him, that in raising his eyes to her, he lost sight of all the
sordid creatures to whose level he had once debased himself, and had come in part to regard
the sins he had committed, before his redemption by the love of this bright young creature,
as evil done by him under a past condition of existence, and for the consequences of which
he was not responsible. One of the consequences, however, was very close to him at this moment.
His convict servant had, according to his instructions, sat up for him, and as he entered,
the man handed him a letter, bearing a superscription in a female hand.

"Who brought this?" asked Frere, hastily tearing it open to read. "The groom, sir. He said
that there was a gentleman at the 'George the Fourth' who wished to see you."

Frere smiled, in admiration of the intelligence which had dictated such a message, and then
frowned in anger at the contents of the letter. "You needn't wait," he said to the man. "I
shall have to go back again, I suppose."

Changing his forage cap for a soft hat, and selecting a stick from a miscellaneous collection
in a corner, he prepared to retrace his steps. "What does she want now?" he asked himself fiercely,
as he strode down the moonlit road; but beneath the fierceness there was an under-current of
petulance, which implied that, whatever "she" did want, she had a right to expect.

The "George the Fourth" was a long low house, situated in Elizabeth Street. Its front was painted
a dull red, and the narrow panes of glass in its windows, and the ostentatious affectation
of red curtains and homely comfort, gave to it a spurious appearance of old English jollity.
A knot of men round the door melted into air as Captain Frere approached, for it was now past
eleven o'clock, and all persons found in the streets after eight could be compelled to "show
their pass" or explain their business. The convict constables were not scrupulous in the exercise
of their duty, and the bluff figure of Frere, clad in the blue serge which he affected as a
summer costume, looked not unlike that of a convict constable.

Pushing open the side door with the confident manner of one well acquainted with the house,
Frere entered, and made his way along a narrow passage to a glass door at the further end.
A tap upon this door brought a white-faced, pock-pitted Irish girl, who curtsied with servile
recognition of the visitor, and ushered him upstairs. The room into which he was shown was
a large one. It had three windows looking into the street, and was handsomely furnished. The
carpet was soft, the candles were bright, and the supper tray gleamed invitingly from a table
between the windows. As Frere entered, a little terrier ran barking to his feet. It was evident
that he was not a constant visitor. The rustle of a silk dress behind the terrier betrayed
the presence of a woman; and Frere, rounding the promontory of an ottoman, found himself face
to face with Sarah Purfoy.

"Thank you for coming," she said. "Pray, sit down."

This was the only greeting that passed between them, and Frere sat down, in obedience to a
motion of a plump hand that twinkled with rings.

The eleven years that had passed since we last saw this woman had dealt gently with her. Her
foot was as small and her hand as white as of yore. Her hair, bound close about her head, was
plentiful and glossy, and her eyes had lost none of their dangerous brightness. Her figure
was coarser, and the white arm that gleamed through a muslin sleeve showed an outline that
a fastidious artist might wish to modify. The most noticeable change was in her face. The cheeks
owned no longer that delicate purity which they once boasted, but had become thicker, while
here and there showed those faint red streaks--as though the rich blood throbbed too painfully
in the veins--which are the first signs of the decay of "fine" women. With middle age and the
fullness of figure to which most women of her temperament are prone, had come also that indescribable
vulgarity of speech and manner which habitual absence of moral restraint never fails to produce.

Maurice Frere spoke first; he was anxious to bring his visit to as speedy a termination as
possible. "What do you want of me?" he asked.

Sarah Purfoy laughed; a forced laugh, that sounded so unnatural, that Frere turned to look
at her. "I want you to do me a favour--a very great favour; that is if it will not put you
out of the way."

"What do you mean?" asked Frere roughly, pursing his lips with a sullen air. "Favour! What
do you call this?" striking the sofa on which he sat. "Isn't this a favour? What do you call
your precious house and all that's in it? Isn't that a favour? What do you mean?"

To his utter astonishment the woman replied by shedding tears. For some time he regarded her
in silence, as if unwilling to be softened by such shallow device, but eventually felt constrained
to say something. "Have you been drinking again?" he asked, "or what's the matter with you?
Tell me what it is you want, and have done with it. I don't know what possessed me to come
here at all."

Sarah sat upright, and dashed away her tears with one passionate hand.

"I am ill, can't you see, you fool!" said she. "The news has unnerved me. If I have been drinking,
what then? It's nothing to you, is it?"

"Oh, no," returned the other, "it's nothing to me. You are the principal party concerned. If
you choose to bloat yourself with brandy, do it by all means."

"You don't pay for it, at any rate!" said she, with quickness of retaliation which showed that
this was not the only occasion on which they had quarrelled.

"Come," said Frere, impatiently brutal, "get on. I can't stop here all night."

She suddenly rose, and crossed to where he was standing.

"Maurice, you were very fond of me once."

"Once," said Maurice.

"Not so very many years ago."

"Hang it!" said he, shifting his arm from beneath her hand, "don't let us have all that stuff
over again. It was before you took to drinking and swearing, and going raving mad with passion,
any way."

"Well, dear," said she, with her great glittering eyes belying the soft tones of her voice,
"I suffered for it, didn't I? Didn't you turn me out into the streets? Didn't you lash me with
your whip like a dog? Didn't you put me in gaol for it, eh? It's hard to struggle against you,
Maurice."

The compliment to his obstinacy seemed to please him--perhaps the crafty woman intended that
it should--and he smiled.

"Well, there; let old times be old times, Sarah. You haven't done badly, after all," and he
looked round the well-furnished room. "What do you want?"

"There was a transport came in this morning."

"Well?"

"You know who was on board her, Maurice!"

Maurice brought one hand into the palm of the other with a rough laugh.

"Oh, that's it, is it! 'Gad, what a flat I was not to think of it before! You want to see him,
I suppose?" She came close to him, and, in her earnestness, took his hand. "I want to save
his life!"

"Oh, that be hanged, you know! Save his life! It can't be done."

"You can do it, Maurice."

"I save John Rex's life?" cried Frere. "Why, you must be mad!"

"He is the only creature that loves me, Maurice--the only man who cares for me. He has done
no harm. He only wanted to be free--was it not natural? You can save him if you like. I only
ask for his life. What does it matter to you? A miserable prisoner--his death would be of no
use. Let him live, Maurice."

Maurice laughed. "What have I to do with it?"

"You are the principal witness against him. If you say that he behaved well--and he did behave
well, you know: many men would have left you to starve--they won't hang him."

"Oh, won't they! That won't make much difference."

"Ah, Maurice, be merciful!" She bent towards him, and tried to retain his hand, but he withdrew it.

"You're a nice sort of woman to ask me to help your lover--a man who left me on that cursed
coast to die, for all he cared," he said, with a galling recollection of his humiliation of
five years back. "Save him! Confound him, not I!"

"Ah, Maurice, you will." She spoke with a suppressed sob in her voice. "What is it to you?
You don't care for me now. You beat me, and turned me out of doors, though I never did you
wrong. This man was a husband to me--long, long before I met you. He never did you any harm;
he never will. He will bless you if you save him, Maurice."

Frere jerked his head impatiently. "Bless me!" he said. "I don't want his blessings. Let him
swing. Who cares?"

Still she persisted, with tears streaming from her eyes, with white arms upraised, on her knees
even, catching at his coat, and beseeching him in broken accents. In her wild, fierce beauty
and passionate abandonment she might have been a deserted Ariadne--a suppliant Medea. Anything
rather than what she was--a dissolute, half-maddened woman, praying for the pardon of her convict
husband.

Maurice Frere flung her off with an oath. "Get up!" he cried brutally, "and stop that nonsense.
I tell you the man's as good as dead for all I shall do to save him."

At this repulse, her pent-up passion broke forth. She sprang to her feet, and, pushing back
the hair that in her frenzied pleading had fallen about her face, poured out upon him a torrent
of abuse. "You! Who are you, that you dare to speak to me like that? His little finger is worth
your whole body. He is a man, a brave man, not a coward, like you. A coward! Yes, a coward!
a coward! A coward! You are very brave with defenceless men and weak women. You have beaten
me until I was bruised black, you cur; but who ever saw you attack a man unless he was chained
or bound? Do not I know you? I have seen you taunt a man at the triangles, until I wished the
screaming wretch could get loose, and murder you as you deserve! You will be murdered one of
these days, Maurice Frere--take my word for it. Men are flesh and blood, and flesh and blood
won't endure the torments you lay on it!"

"There, that'll do," says Frere, growing paler. "Don't excite yourself."

"I know you, you brutal coward. I have not been your mistress--God forgive me!--without learning
you by heart. I've seen your ignorance and your conceit. I've seen the men who ate your food
and drank your wine laugh at you. I've heard what your friends say; I've heard the comparisons
they make. One of your dogs has more brains than you, and twice as much heart. And these are
the men they send to rule us! Oh, Heaven! And such an animal as this has life and death in
his hand! He may hang, may he? I'll hang with him, then, and God will forgive me for murder,
for I will kill you!"

Frere had cowered before this frightful torrent of rage, but, at the scream which accompanied
the last words, he stepped forward as though to seize her. In her desperate courage, she flung
herself before him. "Strike me! You daren't! I defy you! Bring up the wretched creatures who
learn the way to Hell in this cursed house, and let them see you do it. Call them! They are
old friends of yours. They all know Captain Maurice Frere."

"Sarah!"

"You remember Lucy Barnes--poor little Lucy Barnes that stole sixpennyworth of calico. She
is downstairs now. Would you know her if you saw her? She isn't the bright-faced baby she was
when they sent her here to 'reform', and when Lieutenant Frere wanted a new housemaid from
the Factory! Call for her!--call! do you hear? Ask any one of those beasts whom you lash and
chain for Lucy Barnes. He'll tell you all about her--ay, and about many more--many more poor
souls that are at the bidding of any drunken brute that has stolen a pound note to fee the
Devil with! Oh, you good God in Heaven, will You not judge this man?"

Frere trembled. He had often witnessed this creature's whirlwinds of passion, but never had
he seen her so violent as this. Her frenzy frightened him. "For Heaven's sake, Sarah, be quiet.
What is it you want? What would you do?"

"I'll go to this girl you want to marry, and tell her all I know of you. I have seen her in
the streets--have seen her look the other way when I passed her--have seen her gather up her
muslin skirts when my silks touched her--I that nursed her, that heard her say her baby-prayers
(O Jesus, pity me!)--and I know what she thinks of women like me. She is good--and virtuous--and
cold. She would shudder at you if she knew what I know. Shudder! She would hate you! And I
will tell her! Ay, I will! You will be respectable, will you? A model husband! Wait till I
tell her my story--till I send some of these poor women to tell theirs. You kill my love; I'll
blight and ruin yours!"

Frere caught her by both wrists, and with all his strength forced her to her knees. "Don't
speak her name," he said in a hoarse voice, "or I'll do you a mischief. I know all you mean
to do. I'm not such a fool as not to see that. Be quiet! Men have murdered women like you,
and now I know how they came to do it."

For a few minutes a silence fell upon the pair, and at last Frere, releasing her hands, fell
back from her.

"I'll do what you want, on one condition."

"What?"

"That you leave this place."

"Where for?"

"Anywhere--the farther the better. I'll pay your passage to Sydney, and you go or stay there
as you please."

She had grown calmer, hearing him thus relenting. "But this house, Maurice?"

"You are not in debt?"

"No."

"Well, leave it. It's your own affair, not mine. If I help you, you must go."

"May I see him?"

"No."

"Ah, Maurice!"

"You can see him in the dock if you like," says Frere, with a laugh, cut short by a flash of
her eyes. "There, I didn't mean to offend you."

"Offend me! Go on."

"Listen here," said he doggedly. "If you will go away, and promise never to interfere with
me by word or deed, I'll do what you want."

"What will you do?" she asked, unable to suppress a smile at the victory she had won.

"I will not say all I know about this man. I will say he befriended me. I will do my best to
save his life."

"You can save it if you like."

"Well, I will try. On my honour, I will try."

"I must believe you, I suppose?" said she doubtfully; and then, with a sudden pitiful pleading,
in strange contrast to her former violence, "You are not deceiving me, Maurice?"

"No. Why should I? You keep your promise, and I'll keep mine. Is it a bargain?"

"Yes."

He eyed her steadfastly for some seconds, and then turned on his heel. As he reached the door
she called him back. Knowing him as she did, she felt that he would keep his word, and her
feminine nature could not resist a parting sneer.

"There is nothing in the bargain to prevent me helping him to escape!" she said with a smile.

"Escape! He won't escape again, I'll go bail. Once get him in double irons at Port Arthur,
and he's safe enough."

The smile on her face seemed infectious, for his own sullen features relaxed. "Good night,
Sarah," he said.

She put out her hand, as if nothing had happened. "Good night, Captain Frere. It's a bargain,
then?"

"A bargain."

"You have a long walk home. Will you have some brandy?"

"I don't care if I do," he said, advancing to the table, and filling his glass. "Here's a good
voyage to you!"

Sarah Purfoy, watching him, burst into a laugh. "Human beings are queer creatures," she said.
"Who would have thought that we had been calling each other names just now? I say, I'm a vixen
when I'm roused, ain't I, Maurice?"

"Remember what you've promised," said he, with a threat in his voice, as he moved to the door.
"You must be out of this by the next ship that leaves."

"Never fear, I'll go."

Getting into the cool street directly, and seeing the calm stars shining, and the placid water
sleeping with a peace in which he had no share, he strove to cast off the nervous fear that
was on him. That interview had frightened him, for it had made him think. It was hard that,
just as he had turned over a new leaf, this old blot should come through to the clean page.
It was cruel that, having comfortably forgotten the past, he should be thus rudely reminded of it.

CHAPTER III. THE STORY OF TWO BIRDS OF PREY.

The reader of the foregoing pages has doubtless asked himself, "what is the link which binds
together John Rex and Sarah Purfoy?"

In the year 1825 there lived at St. Heliers, Jersey, an old watchmaker, named Urban Purfoy.
He was a hard-working man, and had amassed a little money--sufficient to give his grand-daughter
an education above the common in those days. At sixteen, Sarah Purfoy was an empty-headed,
strong-willed, precocious girl, with big brown eyes. She had a bad opinion of her own sex,
and an immense admiration for the young and handsome members of the other. The neighbours said
that she was too high and mighty for her rank in life. Her grandfather said she was a "beauty",
and like her poor dear mother. She herself thought rather meanly of her personal attractions,
and rather highly of her mental ones. She was brimful of vitality, with strong passions, and
little religious sentiment. She had not much respect for moral courage, for she did not understand
it; but she was a profound admirer of personal prowess. Her distaste for the humdrum life she
was leading found expression in a rebellion against social usages. She courted notoriety by
eccentricities of dress, and was never so happy as when she was misunderstood. She was the
sort of girl of whom women say--"It is a pity she has no mother"; and men, "It is a pity she
does not get a husband"; and who say to themselves, "When shall I have a lover?" There was
no lack of beings of this latter class among the officers quartered in Fort Royal and Fort
Henry; but the female population of the island was free and numerous, and in the embarrassment
of riches, Sarah was overlooked. Though she adored the soldiery, her first lover was a civilian.
Walking one day on the cliff, she met a young man. He was tall, well-looking, and well-dressed.
His name was Lemoine; he was the son of a somewhat wealthy resident of the island, and had
come down from London to recruit his health and to see his friends. Sarah was struck by his
appearance, and looked back at him. He had been struck by hers, and looked back also. He followed
her, and spoke to her--some remark about the wind or the weather--and she thought his voice
divine. They got into conversation--about scenery, lonely walks, and the dullness of St. Heliers.
"Did she often walk there?" "Sometimes." "Would she be there tomorrow?" "She might." Mr. Lemoine
lifted his hat, and went back to dinner, rather pleased with himself.

They met the next day, and the day after that. Lemoine was not a gentleman, but he had lived
among gentlemen, and had caught something of their manner. He said that, after all, virtue
was a mere name, and that when people were powerful and rich, the world respected them more
than if they had been honest and poor. Sarah agreed with this sentiment. Her grandfather was
honest and poor, and yet nobody respected him--at least, not with such respect as she cared
to acknowledge. In addition to his talent for argument, Lemoine was handsome and had money--he
showed her quite a handful of bank-notes one day. He told her of London and the great ladies
there, and hinting that they were not always virtuous, drew himself up with a moody air, as
though he had been unhappily the cause of their fatal lapse into wickedness. Sarah did not
wonder at this in the least. Had she been a great lady, she would have done the same. She began
to coquet with this seductive fellow, and to hint to him that she had too much knowledge of
the world to set a fictitious value upon virtue. He mistook her artfulness for innocence, and
thought he had made a conquest. Moreover, the girl was pretty, and when dressed properly, would
look well. Only one obstacle stood in the way of their loves--the dashing profligate was poor.
He had been living in London above his means, and his father was not inclined to increase his
allowance.

Sarah liked him better than anybody else she had seen, but there are two sides to every bargain.
Sarah Purfoy must go to London. In vain her lover sighed and swore. Unless he would promise
to take her away with him, Diana was not more chaste. The more virtuous she grew, the more
vicious did Lemoine feel. His desire to possess her increased in proportionate ratio to her
resistance, and at last he borrowed two hundred pounds from his father's confidential clerk
(the Lemoines were merchants by profession), and acceded to her wishes. There was no love on
either side--vanity was the mainspring of the whole transaction. Lemoine did not like to be
beaten; Sarah sold herself for a passage to England and an introduction into the "great world".

We need not describe her career at this epoch. Suffice it to say that she discovered that vice
is not always conducive to happiness, and is not, even in this world, so well rewarded as its
earnest practice might merit. Sated, and disappointed, she soon grew tired of her life, and
longed to escape from its wearying dissipations. At this juncture she fell in love.

The object of her affections was one Mr. Lionel Crofton. Crofton was tall, well made, and with
an insinuating address. His features were too strongly marked for beauty. His eyes were the
best part of his face, and, like his hair, they were jet black. He had broad shoulders, sinewy
limbs, and small hands and feet. His head was round, and well-shaped, but it bulged a little
over the ears which were singularly small and lay close to his head. With this man, barely
four years older than herself, Sarah, at seventeen, fell violently in love. This was the more
strange as, though fond of her, he would tolerate no caprices, and possessed an ungovernable
temper, which found vent in curses, and even blows. He seemed to have no profession or business,
and though he owned a good address, he was even less of a gentleman than Lemoine. Yet Sarah,
attracted by one of the strange sympathies which constitute the romance of such women's lives,
was devoted to him. Touched by her affection, and rating her intelligence and unscrupulousness
at their true value, he told her who he was. He was a swindler, a forger, and a thief, and
his name was John Rex. When she heard this she experienced a sinister delight. He told her
of his plots, his tricks, his escapes, his villainies; and seeing how for years this young
man had preyed upon the world which had deceived and disowned her, her heart went out to him.
"I am glad you found me," she said. "Two heads are better than one. We will work together."

John Rex, known among his intimate associates as Dandy Jack, was the putative son of a man
who had been for many years valet to Lord Bellasis, and who retired from the service of that
profligate nobleman with a sum of money and a wife. John Rex was sent to as good a school as
could be procured for him, and at sixteen was given, by the interest of his mother with his
father's former master, a clerkship in an old-established city banking-house. Mrs. Rex was
intensely fond of her son, and imbued him with a desire to shine in aristocratic circles. He
was a clever lad, without any principle; he would lie unblushingly, and steal deliberately,
if he thought he could do so with impunity. He was cautious, acquisitive, imaginative, self-conceited,
and destructive. He had strong perceptive faculties, and much invention and versatility, but
his "moral sense" was almost entirely wanting. He found that his fellow clerks were not of
that "gentlemanly" stamp which his mother thought so admirable, and therefore he despised them.
He thought he should like to go into the army, for he was athletic, and rejoiced in feats of
muscular strength. To be tied all day to a desk was beyond endurance. But John Rex, senior,
told him to "wait and see what came of it." He did so, and in the meantime kept late hours,
got into bad company, and forged the name of a customer of the bank to a cheque for twenty
pounds. The fraud was a clumsy one, and was detected in twenty-four hours. Forgeries by clerks,
however easily detected, are unfortunately not considered to add to the attractions of a banking-house,
and the old-established firm decided not to prosecute, but dismissed Mr. John Rex from their
service. The ex-valet, who never liked his legalized son, was at first for turning him out
of doors, but by the entreaties of his wife, was at last induced to place the promising boy
in a draper's shop, in the City Road.

This employment was not a congenial one, and John Rex planned to leave it. He lived at home,
and had his salary--about thirty shillings a week--for pocket money. Though he displayed considerable
skill with the cue, and not infrequently won considerable sums for one in his position, his
expenses averaged more than his income; and having borrowed all he could, he found himself
again in difficulties. His narrow escape, however, had taught him a lesson, and he resolved
to confess all to his indulgent mother, and be more economical for the future. Just then one
of those "lucky chances" which blight so many lives occurred. The "shop-walker" died, and Messrs.
Baffaty & Co. made the gentlemanly Rex act as his substitute for a few days. Shop-walkers have
opportunities not accorded to other folks, and on the evening of the third day Mr. Rex went
home with a bundle of lace in his pocket. Unfortunately, he owed more than the worth of this
petty theft, and was compelled to steal again. This time he was detected. One of his fellow-shopmen
caught him in the very act of concealing a roll of silk, ready for future abstraction, and,
to his astonishment, cried "Halves!" Rex pretended to be virtuously indignant, but soon saw
that such pretence was useless; his companion was too wily to be fooled with such affectation
of innocence. "I saw you take it," said he, "and if you won't share I'll tell old Baffaty."
This argument was irresistible, and they shared. Having become good friends, the self-made
partner lent Rex a helping hand in the disposal of the booty, and introduced him to a purchaser.
The purchaser violated all rules of romance by being--not a Jew, but a very orthodox Christian.
He kept a second-hand clothes warehouse in the City Road, and was supposed to have branch establishments
all over London.

Mr. Blicks purchased the stolen goods for about a third of their value, and seemed struck by
Mr. Rex's appearance. "I thort you was a swell mobsman," said he. This, from one so experienced,
was a high compliment. Encouraged by success, Rex and his companion took more articles of value.
John Rex paid off his debts, and began to feel himself quite a "gentleman" again. Just as Rex
had arrived at this pleasing state of mind, Baffaty discovered the robbery. Not having heard
about the bank business, he did not suspect Rex--he was such a gentlemanly young man--but having
had his eye for some time upon Rex's partner, who was vulgar, and squinted, he sent for him.
Rex's partner stoutly denied the accusation, and old Baffaty, who was a man of merciful tendencies,
and could well afford to lose fifty pounds, gave him until the next morning to confess, and
state where the goods had gone, hinting at the persuasive powers of a constable at the end
of that time. The shopman, with tears in his eyes, came in a hurry to Rex, and informed him
that all was lost. He did not want to confess, because he must implicate his friend Rex, but
if he did not confess he would be given in charge. Flight was impossible, for neither had money.
In this dilemma John Rex remembered Blicks's compliment, and burned to deserve it. If he must
retreat, he would lay waste the enemy's country. His exodus should be like that of the Israelites--he
would spoil the Egyptians. The shop-walker was allowed half an hour in the middle of the day
for lunch. John Rex took advantage of this half-hour to hire a cab and drive to Blicks. That
worthy man received him cordially, for he saw that he was bent upon great deeds. John Rex rapidly
unfolded his plan of operations. The warehouse doors were fastened with a spring. He would
remain behind after they were locked, and open them at a given signal. A light cart or cab
could be stationed in the lane at the back, three men could fill it with valuables in as many
hours. Did Blicks know of three such men? Blicks's one eye glistened. He thought he did know.
At half-past eleven they should be there. Was that all? No. Mr. John Rex was not going to "put
up" such a splendid thing for nothing. The booty was worth at least £5,000 if it was worth
a shilling--he must have £100 cash when the cart stopped at Blicks's door. Blicks at first
refused point blank. Let there be a division, but he would not buy a pig in a poke. Rex was
firm, however; it was his only chance, and at last he got a promise of £80. That night the
glorious achievement known in the annals of Bow Street as "The Great Silk Robbery" took place,
and two days afterwards John Rex and his partner, dining comfortably at Birmingham, read an
account of the transaction--not in the least like it--in a London paper.

John Rex, who had now fairly broken with dull respectability, bid adieu to his home, and began
to realize his mother's wishes. He was, after his fashion, a "gentleman". As long as the £80
lasted, he lived in luxury, and by the time it was spent he had established himself in his
profession. This profession was a lucrative one. It was that of a swindler. Gifted with a handsome
person, facile manner, and ready wit, he had added to these natural advantages some skill at
billiards, some knowledge of gambler's legerdemain, and the useful consciousness that he must
prey or be preyed on. John Rex was no common swindler; his natural as well as his acquired
abilities saved him from vulgar errors. He saw that to successfully swindle mankind, one must
not aim at comparative, but superlative, ingenuity. He who is contented with being only cleverer
than the majority must infallibly be outwitted at last, and to be once outwitted is--for a
swindler--to be ruined. Examining, moreover, into the history of detected crime, John Rex discovered
one thing. At the bottom of all these robberies, deceptions, and swindles, was some lucky fellow
who profited by the folly of his confederates. This gave him an idea. Suppose he could not
only make use of his own talents to rob mankind, but utilize those of others also? Crime runs
through infinite grades. He proposed to himself to be at the top; but why should he despise
those good fellows beneath him? His speciality was swindling, billiard-playing, card-playing,
borrowing money, obtaining goods, never risking more than two or three coups in a year. But
others plundered houses, stole bracelets, watches, diamonds--made as much in a night as he
did in six months--only their occupation was more dangerous. Now came the question--why more
dangerous? Because these men were mere clods, bold enough and clever enough in their own rude
way, but no match for the law, with its Argus eyes and its Briarean hands. They did the rougher
business well enough; they broke locks, and burst doors, and "neddied" constables, but in the
finer arts of plan, attack, and escape, they were sadly deficient. Good. These men should be
the hands; he would be the head. He would plan the robberies; they should execute them.

Working through many channels, and never omitting to assist a fellow-worker when in distress,
John Rex, in a few years, and in a most prosaic business way, became the head of a society
of ruffians. Mixing with fast clerks and unsuspecting middle-class profligates, he found out
particulars of houses ill guarded, and shops insecurely fastened, and "put up" Blicks's ready
ruffians to the more dangerous work. In his various disguises, and under his many names, he
found his way into those upper circles of "fast" society, where animals turn into birds, where
a wolf becomes a rook, and a lamb a pigeon. Rich spendthrifts who affected male society asked
him to their houses, and Mr. Anthony Croftonbury, Captain James Craven, and Mr. Lionel Crofton
were names remembered, sometimes with pleasure, oftener with regret, by many a broken man of
fortune. He had one quality which, to a man of his profession, was invaluable--he was cautious,
and master of himself. Having made a success, wrung commission from Blicks, rooked a gambling
ninny like Lemoine, or secured an assortment of jewellery sent down to his "wife" in Gloucestershire,
he would disappear for a time. He liked comfort, and revelled in the sense of security and
respectability. Thus he had lived for three years when he met Sarah Purfoy, and thus he proposed
to live for many more. With this woman as a coadjutor, he thought he could defy the law. She
was the net spread to catch his "pigeons"; she was the well-dressed lady who ordered goods
in London for her husband at Canterbury, and paid half the price down, "which was all this
letter authorized her to do," and where a less beautiful or clever woman might have failed,
she succeeded. Her husband saw fortune before him, and believed that, with common prudence,
he might carry on his most lucrative employment of "gentleman" until he chose to relinquish
it. Alas for human weakness! He one day did a foolish thing, and the law he had so successfully
defied got him in the simplest way imaginable.

Under the names of Mr. and Mrs. Skinner, John Rex and Sarah Purfoy were living in quiet lodgings
in the neighbourhood of Bloomsbury. Their landlady was a respectable poor woman, and had a
son who was a constable. This son was given to talking, and, coming in to supper one night,
he told his mother that on the following evening an attack was to be made on a gang of coiners
in the Old Street Road. The mother, dreaming all sorts of horrors during the night, came the
next day to Mrs. Skinner, in the parlour, and, under a pledge of profound secrecy, told her
of the dreadful expedition in which her son was engaged. John Rex was out at a pigeon match
with Lord Bellasis, and when he returned, at nine o'clock, Sarah told him what she had heard.

Now, 4, Bank-place, Old Street Road, was the residence of a man named Green, who had for some
time carried on the lucrative but dangerous trade of "counterfeiting". This man was one of
the most daring of that army of ruffians whose treasure chest and master of the mint was Blicks,
and his liberty was valuable. John Rex, eating his dinner more nervously than usual, ruminated
on the intelligence, and thought it would be but wise to warn Green of his danger. Not that
he cared much for Green personally, but it was bad policy to miss doing a good turn to a comrade,
and, moreover, Green, if captured might wag his tongue too freely. But how to do it? If he
went to Blicks, it might be too late; he would go himself. He went out--and was captured. When
Sarah heard of the calamity she set to work to help him. She collected all her money and jewels,
paid Mrs. Skinner's rent, went to see Rex, and arranged his defence. Blicks was hopeful, but
Green--who came very near hanging--admitted that the man was an associate of his, and the Recorder,
being in a severe mood, transported him for seven years. 

The viceroy was pensive a few seconds and then, rising from his seat, put hand on the shoulder
of his secretary:

- My friend, what is done is well done, and the world would run better if, in given cases, were not
shyster shysters and other crows Themis, but elves, administering justice. And so, good night
and God and Mary to take us in His holy guard and deliver us goblins
and remorse.

THE DUST OF THE COUNTESS

CHRONICLE OF THE AGE OF FOURTEEN VICEROY OF PERU

(By Dr. Ignacio La-Puente.)

I

In a June afternoon in 1631 all the bells of the churches of Lima
mourned funeral prayers, and the monks of the four religious orders
at that time were, gathered in full choir chanted psalms and prayers.

The inhabitants of the city three times crowned crossed for sites that, sixty years later, the
Viceroy Conde de la Monclova should build portals Clerks and keypads,
stopping in front of the side door of the palace.

In it everything is back entrances and exits of characters, more or
less characterized.

No one would say it had to anchor in Callao, a galleon with immense new Spain, such was the
agitation palace and popular! or, as in our democratic days, was
doing one of those strokes of theater that can give early end to the
justice of rope and stake.

Events, such as water should be drunk at the source, and hence, with leave of the captain arquebusiers
faction is in the above door, penetrate, reader, if you please me
company, in a palace recamarín.

They were in him the most excellent Don Luis Jerónimo Fernández de
Cabrera Bobadilla and Mendoza, Count of Chinchón, Viceroy of these
kingdoms of Peru SM Philip IV, and his close friend the Marquis de
Corpa.

Both were silent and looking eagerly towards the door exhaust, which
gave way to open up a new character.

This was an old man.

He wore black wool trousers half leg, corduroy shoes with buckles stone, velvet jacket and
waistcoat, hanging from the latter a thick silver chain with beautiful stamps. If we add that spent
suede gloves, the reader will know the perfect type of a Aesculapian at that time.

Dr. Juan de Vega, a native of Catalonia, newly arrived in Peru, as
a doctor the Viceroy's house was one of the luminaries of the science
that teaches to kill through a recipe.

- Well, don Juan? - Questioned
the viceroy, more with the look of the word.

- Lord, no hope.

Only a miracle can save Dona Francisca.
And Don John retired air pricked.

This short dialogue just for the
less informed reader knows what it is.

The viceroy had arrived in
Lima in January 1639, and two months later, his beautiful and young
wife Dona Francisca Henriquez de Ribera, which had landed in Paita
not be exposed to the hazards of a possible naval combat with pirates.
Some time later he felt the viceroy attacked the periodic fever to
be identified by the name of tertian, and was known by the Incas as
endemic in the valley of Rimac.

It is known that when, in 1378, Pachacutec
sent an army of thirty thousand Cuzco to conquer Pachacamac, lost
the flower of their troops to the ravages of tertian. It was reported
also that her lover was naturally most anxious that she should not give evidence, as she was--an
additional point of romantic interest--affected deeply by the illness consequent on the suffering
she had undergone, and in a state of pitiable mental confusion as to the whole business. These
reports caused the Court, on the day of the trial, to be crowded with spectators; and as the
various particulars of the marvellous history of this double escape were detailed, the excitement
grew more intense. The aspect of the four heavily-ironed prisoners caused a sensation which,
in that city of the ironed, was quite novel, and bets were offered and taken as to the line
of defence which they would adopt. At first it was thought that they would throw themselves
on the mercy of the Crown, seeking, in the very extravagance of their story, to excite public
sympathy; but a little study of the demeanour of the chief prisoner, John Rex, dispelled that
conjecture. Calm, placid, and defiant, he seemed prepared to accept his fate, or to meet his
accusers with some plea which should be sufficient to secure his acquittal on the capital charge.
Only when he heard the indictment, setting forth that he had "feloniously pirated the brig
Osprey," he smiled a little.

Mr. Meekin, sitting in the body of the Court, felt his religious prejudices sadly shocked by
that smile. "A perfect wild beast, my dear Miss Vickers," he said, returning, in a pause during
the examination of the convicts who had been brought to identify the prisoner, to the little
room where Sylvia and her father were waiting. "He has quite a tigerish look about him."

"Poor man!" said Sylvia, with a shudder.

"Poor! My dear young lady, you do not pity him?"

"I do," said Sylvia, twisting her hands together as if in pain. "I pity them all, poor creatures."

"Charming sensibility!" says Meekin, with a glance at Vickers. "The true woman's heart, my
dear Major."

The Major tapped his fingers impatiently at this ill-timed twaddle. Sylvia was too nervous
just then for sentiment. "Come here, Poppet," he said, "and look through this door. You can
see them from here, and if you do not recognize any of them, I can't see what is the use of
putting you in the box; though, of course, if it is necessary, you must go."

The raised dock was just opposite to the door of the room in which they were sitting, and the
four manacled men, each with an armed warder behind him, were visible above the heads of the
crowd. The girl had never before seen the ceremony of trying a man for his life, and the silent
and antique solemnities of the business affected her, as it affects all who see it for the
first time. The atmosphere was heavy and distressing. The chains of the prisoners clanked ominously.
The crushing force of judge, gaolers, warders, and constables assembled to punish the four
men, appeared cruel. The familiar faces, that in her momentary glance, she recognized, seemed
to her evilly transfigured. Even the countenance of her promised husband, bent eagerly forward
towards the witness-box, showed tyrannous and bloodthirsty. Her eyes hastily followed the pointing
finger of her father, and sought the men in the dock. Two of them lounged, sullen and inattentive;
one nervously chewed a straw, or piece of twig, pawing the dock with restless hand; the fourth
scowled across the Court at the witness-box, which she could not see. The four faces were all
strange to her.

"No, papa," she said, with a sigh of relief, "I can't recognize them at all."

As she was turning from the door, a voice from the witness-box behind her made her suddenly
pale and pause to look again. The Court itself appeared, at that moment, affected, for a murmur
ran through it, and some official cried, "Silence!"

The notorious criminal, Rufus Dawes, the desperado of Port Arthur, the wild beast whom the
Gazette had judged not fit to live, had just entered the witness-box. He was a man of thirty,
in the prime of life, with a torso whose muscular grandeur not even the ill-fitting yellow
jacket could altogether conceal, with strong, embrowned, and nervous hands, an upright carriage,
and a pair of fierce, black eyes that roamed over the Court hungrily.

Not all the weight of the double irons swaying from the leathern thong around his massive loins,
could mar that elegance of attitude which comes only from perfect muscular development. Not
all the frowning faces bent upon him could frown an accent of respect into the contemptuous
tones in which he answered to his name, "Rufus Dawes, prisoner of the Crown".

"Come away, my darling," said Vickers, alarmed at his daughter's blanched face and eager eyes.

"Wait," she said impatiently, listening for the voice whose owner she could not see. "Rufus
Dawes! Oh, I have heard that name before!"

"You are a prisoner of the Crown at the penal settlement of Port Arthur?"

"Yes."

"For life?"

"For life."

Sylvia turned to her father with breathless inquiry in her eyes. "Oh, papa! who is that speaking?
I know the name! the voice!"

"That is the man who was with you in the boat, dear," says Vickers gravely. "The prisoner."

The eager light died out of her eyes, and in its place came a look of disappointment and pain.
"I thought it was a good man," she said, holding by the edge of the doorway. "It sounded like
a good voice."

And then she pressed her hands over her eyes and shuddered. "There, there," says Vickers soothingly,
"don't be afraid, Poppet; he can't hurt you now."

"No, ha! ha!" says Meekin, with great display of off-hand courage, "the villain's safe enough now."

The colloquy in the Court went on. "Do you know the prisoners in the dock?"

"Yes." "Who are they?"

"John Rex, Henry Shiers, James Lesly, and, and--I'm not sure about the last man." "You are
not sure about the last man. Will you swear to the three others?"

"Yes."

"You remember them well?"

"I was in the chain-gang at Macquarie Harbour with them for three years." Sylvia, hearing this
hideous reason for acquaintance, gave a low cry, and fell into her father's arms.

"Oh, papa, take me away! I feel as if I was going to remember something terrible!"

Amid the deep silence that prevailed, the cry of the poor girl was distinctly audible in the
Court, and all heads turned to the door. In the general wonder no one noticed the change that
passed over Rufus Dawes. His face flushed scarlet, great drops of sweat stood on his forehead,
and his black eyes glared in the direction from whence the sound came, as though they would
pierce the envious wood that separated him from the woman whose voice he had heard. Maurice
Frere sprang up and pushed his way through the crowd under the bench.

"What's this?" he said to Vickers, almost brutally. "What did you bring her here for? She is
not wanted. I told you that."

"I considered it my duty, sir," says Vickers, with stately rebuke.

"What has frightened her? What has she heard? What has she seen?" asked Frere, with a strangely
white face. "Sylvia, Sylvia!"

She opened her eyes at the sound of his voice. "Take me home, papa; I'm ill. Oh, what thoughts!"

"What does she mean?" cried Frere, looking in alarm from one to the other.

"That ruffian Dawes frightened her," said Meekin. "A gush of recollection, poor child. There,
there, calm yourself, Miss Vickers. He is quite safe."

"Frightened her, eh?" "Yes," said Sylvia faintly, "he frightened me, Maurice. I needn't stop
any longer, dear, need I?"

"No," says Frere, the cloud passing from his face. "Major, I beg your pardon, but I was hasty.
Take her home at once. This sort of thing is too much for her." And so he went back to his
place, wiping his brow, and breathing hard, as one who had just escaped from some near peril.

Rufus Dawes had remained in the same attitude until the figure of Frere, passing through the
doorway, roused him. "Who is she?" he said, in a low, hoarse voice, to the constable behind
him. "Miss Vickers," said the man shortly, flinging the information at him as one might fling
a bone to a dangerous dog.

"Miss Vickers," repeated the convict, still staring in a sort of bewildered agony. "They told
me she was dead!"

The constable sniffed contemptuously at this preposterous conclusion, as who should say, "If
you know all about it, animal, why did you ask?" and then, feeling that the fixed gaze of his
interrogator demanded some reply, added, "You thort she was, I've no doubt. You did your best
to make her so, I've heard."

The convict raised both his hands with sudden action of wrathful despair, as though he would
seize the other, despite the loaded muskets; but, checking himself with sudden impulse, wheeled
round to the Court.

"Your Honour!--Gentlemen! I want to speak."

The change in the tone of his voice, no less than the sudden loudness of the exclamation, made
the faces, hitherto bent upon the door through which Mr. Frere had passed, turn round again.
To many there it seemed that the "notorious Dawes" was no longer in the box, for, in place
of the upright and defiant villain who stood there an instant back, was a white-faced, nervous,
agitated creature, bending forward in an attitude almost of supplication, one hand grasping
the rail, as though to save himself from falling, the other outstretched towards the bench.
"Your Honour, there has been some dreadful mistake made. I want to explain about myself. I
explained before, when first I was sent to Port Arthur, but the letters were never forwarded
by the Commandant; of course, that's the rule, and I can't complain. I've been sent there unjustly,
your Honour. I made that boat, your Honour. I saved the Major's wife and daughter. I was the
man; I did it all myself, and my liberty was sworn away by a villain who hated me. I thought,
until now, that no one knew the truth, for they told me that she was dead." His rapid utterance
took the Court so much by surprise that no one interrupted him. "I was sentenced to death for
bolting, sir, and they reprieved me because I helped them in the boat. Helped them! Why, I
made it! She will tell you so. I nursed her! I carried her in my arms! I starved myself for
her! She was fond of me, sir. She was indeed. She called me 'Good Mr. Dawes'."

At this, a coarse laugh broke out, which was instantly checked. The judge bent over to ask,
"Does he mean Miss Vickers?" and in this interval Rufus Dawes, looking down into the Court,
saw Maurice Frere staring up at him with terror in his eyes. "I see you, Captain Frere, coward
and liar! Put him in the box, gentlemen, and make him tell his story. She'll contradict him,
never fear. Oh, and I thought she was dead all this while!"

The judge had got his answer from the clerk by this time. "Miss Vickers had been seriously
ill, had fainted just now in the Court. Her only memories of the convict who had been with
her in the boat were those of terror and disgust. The sight of him just now had most seriously
affected her. The convict himself was an inveterate liar and schemer, and his story had been
already disproved by Captain Frere."

The judge, a man inclining by nature to humanity, but forced by experience to receive all statements
of prisoners with caution, said all he could say, and the tragedy of five years was disposed
of in the following dialogue:- JUDGE: This is not the place for an accusation against Captain
Frere, nor the place to argue upon your alleged wrongs. If you have suffered injustice, the
authorities will hear your complaint, and redress it.

RUFUS DAWES I have complained, your Honour. I wrote letter after letter to the Government,
but they were never sent. Then I heard she was dead, and they sent me to the Coal Mines after
that, and we never hear anything there.

JUDGE I can't listen to you. Mr. Mangles, have you any more questions to ask the witness?

But Mr. Mangles not having any more, someone called, "Matthew Gabbett," and Rufus Dawes, still
endeavouring to speak, was clanked away with, amid a buzz of remark and surmise.

          *          *          *          *          *

The trial progressed without further incident. Sylvia was not called, and, to the astonishment
of many of his enemies, Captain Frere went into the witness-box and generously spoke in favour
of John Rex. "He might have left us to starve," Frere said; "he might have murdered us; we
were completely in his power. The stock of provisions on board the brig was not a large one,
and I consider that, in dividing it with us, he showed great generosity for one in his situation."
This piece of evidence told strongly in favour of the prisoners, for Captain Frere was known
to be such an uncompromising foe to all rebellious convicts that it was understood that only
the sternest sense of justice and truth could lead him to speak in such terms. The defence
set up by Rex, moreover, was most ingenious. He was guilty of absconding, but his moderation
might plead an excuse for that. His only object was his freedom, and, having gained it, he
had lived honestly for nearly three years, as he could prove. He was charged with piratically
seizing the brig Osprey, and he urged that the brig Osprey, having been built by convicts at
Macquarie Harbour, and never entered in any shipping list, could not be said to be "piratically
seized", in the strict meaning of the term. The Court admitted the force of this objection,
and, influenced doubtless by Captain Frere's evidence, the fact that five years had passed
since the mutiny, and that the two men most guilty (Cheshire and Barker) had been executed
in England, sentenced Rex and his three companions to transportation for life to the penal
settlements of the colony.

CHAPTER V. MAURICE FRERE'S GOOD ANGEL.

At this happy conclusion to his labours, Frere went down to comfort the girl for whose sake
he had suffered Rex to escape the gallows. On his way he was met by a man who touched his hat,
and asked to speak with him an instant. This man was past middle age, owned a red brandy-beaten
face, and had in his gait and manner that nameless something that denotes the seaman.

"Well, Blunt," says Frere, pausing with the impatient air of a man who expects to hear bad
news, "what is it now?"

"Only to tell you that it is all right, sir," says Blunt. "She's come aboard again this morning."

"Come aboard again!" ejaculated Frere. "Why, I didn't know that she had been ashore. Where
did she go?" He spoke with an air of confident authority, and Blunt--no longer the bluff tyrant
of old--seemed to quail before him. The trial of the mutineers of the Malabar had ruined Phineas
Blunt. Make what excuses he might, there was no concealing the fact that Pine found him drunk
in his cabin when he ought to have been attending to his duties on deck, and the "authorities"
could not, or would not, pass over such a heinous breach of discipline. Captain Blunt--who,
of course, had his own version of the story--thus deprived of the honour of bringing His Majesty's
prisoners to His Majesty's colonies of New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land, went on a whaling
cruise to the South Seas. The influence which Sarah Purfoy had acquired over him had, however,
irretrievably injured him. It was as though she had poisoned his moral nature by the influence
of a clever and wicked woman over a sensual and dull-witted man. Blunt gradually sank lower
and lower. He became a drunkard, and was known as a man with a "grievance against the Government".
Captain Frere, having had occasion for him in some capacity, had become in a manner his patron,
and had got him the command of a schooner trading from Sydney. On getting this command--not
without some wry faces on the part of the owner resident in Hobart Town--Blunt had taken the
temperance pledge for the space of twelve months, and was a miserable dog in consequence. He
was, however, a faithful henchman, for he hoped by Frere's means to get some "Government billet"--the
grand object of all colonial sea captains of that epoch.

"Well, sir, she went ashore to see a friend," says Blunt, looking at the sky and then at the earth.

"What friend?"

"The--the prisoner, sir."

"And she saw him, I suppose?"

"Yes, but I thought I'd better tell you, sir," says Blunt.

"Of course; quite right," returned the other; "you had better start at once. It's no use waiting."

"As you wish, sir. I can sail to-morrow morning--or this evening, if you like."

"This evening," says Frere, turning away; "as soon as possible."

"There's a situation in Sydney I've been looking after," said the other, uneasily, "if you
could help me to it."

"What is it?"

"The command of one of the Government vessels, sir."

"Well, keep sober, then," says Frere, "and I'll see what I can do. And keep that woman's tongue
still if you can."

The pair looked at each other, and Blunt grinned slavishly.

"I'll do my best." "Take care you do," returned his patron, leaving him without further ceremony.

Frere found Vickers in the garden, and at once begged him not to talk about the "business"
to his daughter.

"You saw how bad she was to-day, Vickers. For goodness sake don't make her ill again."

"My dear sir," says poor Vickers, "I won't refer to the subject. She's been very unwell ever
since. Nervous and unstrung. Go in and see her."

So Frere went in and soothed the excited girl, with real sorrow at her suffering.

"It's all right now, Poppet," he said to her. "Don't think of it any more. Put it out of your
mind, dear."

"It was foolish of me, Maurice, I know, but I could not help it. The sound of--of--that man's
voice seemed to bring back to me some great pity for something or someone. I don't explain
what I mean, I know, but I felt that I was on the verge of remembering a story of some great
wrong, just about to hear some dreadful revelation that should make me turn from all the people
whom I ought most to love. Do you understand?"

"I think I know what you mean," says Frere, with averted face. "But that's all nonsense, you know."

"Of course," returned she, with a touch of her old childish manner of disposing of questions
out of hand. "Everybody knows it's all nonsense. But then we do think such things. It seems
to me that I am double, that I have lived somewhere before, and have had another life--a dream-life."

"What a romantic girl you are," said the other, dimly comprehending her meaning. "How could
you have a dream-life?"

"Of course, not really, stupid! But in thought, you know. I dream such strange things now and
then. I am always falling down precipices and into cataracts, and being pushed into great caverns
in enormous rocks. Horrible dreams!"

"Indigestion," returned Frere. "You don't take exercise enough. You shouldn't read so much.
Have a good five-mile walk."

"And in these dreams," continued Sylvia, not heeding his interruption, "there is one strange
thing. You are always there, Maurice."

"Come, that's all right," says Maurice.

"Ah, but not kind and good as you are, Captain Bruin, but scowling, and threatening, and angry,
so that I am afraid of you."

"But that is only a dream, darling."

"Yes, but--" playing with the button of his coat.

"But what?"

"But you looked just so to-day in the Court, Maurice, and I think that's what made me so silly."

"My darling! There; hush--don't cry!"

But she had burst into a passion of sobs and tears, that shook her slight figure in his arms.

"Oh, Maurice, I am a wicked girl! I don't know my own mind. I think sometimes I don't love
you as I ought--you who have saved me and nursed me."

"There, never mind about that," muttered Maurice Frere, with a sort of choking in his throat.

She grew more composed presently, and said, after a while, lifting her face, "Tell me, Maurice,
did you ever, in those days of which you have spoken to me--when you nursed me as a little
child in your arms, and fed me, and starved for me--did you ever think we should be married?"

"I don't know," says Maurice. "Why?"

"I think you must have thought so, because--it's not vanity, dear--you would not else have
been so kind, and gentle, and devoted."

"Nonsense, Poppet," he said, with his eyes resolutely averted.

"No, but you have been, and I am very pettish, sometimes. Papa has spoiled me. You are always
affectionate, and those worrying ways of yours, which I get angry at, all come from love for
me, don't they?"

"I hope so," said Maurice, with an unwonted moisture in his eyes.

"Well, you see, that is the reason why I am angry with myself for not loving you as I ought.
I want you to like the things I like, and to love the books and the music and the pictures
and the--the World I love; and I forget that you are a man, you know, and I am only a girl;
and I forget how nobly you behaved, Maurice, and how unselfishly you risked your life for mine.
Why, what is the matter, dear?"

He had put her away from him suddenly, and gone to the window, gazing across the sloping garden
at the bay below, sleeping in the soft evening light. The schooner which had brought the witnesses
from Port Arthur lay off the shore, and the yellow flag at her mast fluttered gently in the
cool evening breeze. The sight of this flag appeared to anger him, for, as his eyes fell on
it, he uttered an impatient exclamation, and turned round again.

"Maurice!" she cried, "I have wounded you!"

"No, no. It is nothing," said he, with the air of a man surprised in a moment of weakness.
"I--I did not like to hear you talk in this way--about not loving me."

"Oh, forgive me, dear; I did not mean to hurt you. It is my silly way of saying more than I
mean. How could I do otherwise than love you--after all you have done?"

Some sudden desperate whim caused him to exclaim, "But suppose I had not done all you think,
would you not love me still?"

Her eyes, raised to his face with anxious tenderness for the pain she had believed herself
to have inflicted, fell at this speech.

"What a question! I don't know. I suppose I should; yet--but what is the use, Maurice, of supposing?
I know you have done it, and that is enough. How can I say what I might have done if something
else had happened? Why, you might not have loved me."

If there had been for a moment any sentiment of remorse in his selfish heart, the hesitation
of her answer went far to dispel it.

"To be sure, that's true," and he placed his arm round her.

She lifted her face again with a bright laugh.

"We are a pair of geese--supposing! How can we help what has past? We have the Future, darling--the
Future, in which I am to be your little wife, and we are to love each other all our lives,
like the people in the story-books."

Temptation to evil had often come to Maurice Frere, and his selfish nature had succumbed to
it when in far less witching shape than this fair and innocent child luring him with wistful
eyes to win her. What hopes had he not built upon her love; what good resolutions had he not
made by reason of the purity and goodness she was to bring to him? As she said, the past was
beyond recall; the future--in which she was to love him all her life--was before them. With
the hypocrisy of selfishness which deceives even itself, he laid the little head upon his heart
with a sensible glow of virtue.

"God bless you, darling! You are my Good Angel."

The girl sighed. "I will be your Good Angel, dear, if you will let me."

CHAPTER VI. MR. MEEKIN ADMINISTERS CONSOLATION.

Rex told Mr. Meekin, who, the next day, did him the honour to visit him, that, "under Providence,
he owed his escape from death to the kind manner in which Captain Frere had spoken of him."

"I hope your escape will be a warning to you, my man," said Mr. Meekin, "and that you will
endeavour to make the rest of your life, thus spared by the mercy of Providence, an atonement
for your early errors."

"Indeed I will, sir," said John Rex, who had taken Mr. Meekin's measure very accurately, "and
it is very kind of you to condescend to speak so to a wretch like me."

"Not at all," said Meekin, with affability; "it is my duty. I am a Minister of the Gospel."

"Ah! sir, I wish I had attended to the Gospel's teachings when I was younger. I might have
been saved from all this."

"You might, indeed, poor man; but the Divine Mercy is infinite--quite infinite, and will be
extended to all of us--to you as well as to me." (This with the air of saying, "What do you
think of that!") "Remember the penitent thief, Rex--the penitent thief."

"Indeed I do, sir."

"And read your Bible, Rex, and pray for strength to bear your punishment."

"I will, Mr. Meekin. I need it sorely, sir--physical as well as spiritual strength, sir--for
the Government allowance is sadly insufficient."

"I will speak to the authorities about a change in your dietary scale," returned Meekin, patronizingly.
"In the meantime, just collect together in your mind those particulars of your adventures of
which you spoke, and have them ready for me when next I call. Such a remarkable history ought
not to be lost."

"Thank you kindly, sir. I will, sir. Ah! I little thought when I occupied the position of a
gentleman, Mr. Meekin"--the cunning scoundrel had been piously grandiloquent concerning his
past career--"that I should be reduced to this. But it is only just, sir."

"The mysterious workings of Providence are always just, Rex," returned Meekin, who preferred
to speak of the Almighty with well-bred vagueness.

"I am glad to see you so conscious of your errors. Good morning."

"Good morning, and Heaven bless you, sir," said Rex, with his tongue in his cheek for the benefit
of his yard mates; and so Mr. Meekin tripped gracefully away, convinced that he was labouring
most successfully in the Vineyard, and that the convict Rex was really a superior person.

"I will send his narrative to the Bishop," said he to himself. "It will amuse him. There must
be many strange histories here, if one could but find them out."

As the thought passed through his brain, his eye fell upon the "notorious Dawes", who, while
waiting for the schooner to take him back to Port Arthur, had been permitted to amuse himself
by breaking stones. The prison-shed which Mr. Meekin was visiting was long and low, roofed
with iron, and terminating at each end in the stone wall of the gaol. At one side rose the
cells, at the other the outer wall of the prison. From the outer wall projected a weatherboard
under-roof, and beneath this were seated forty heavily-ironed convicts. Two constables, with
loaded carbines, walked up and down the clear space in the middle, and another watched from
a sort of sentry-box built against the main wall. Every half-hour a third constable went down
the line and examined the irons. The admirable system of solitary confinement--which in average
cases produces insanity in the space of twelve months--was as yet unknown in Hobart Town, and
the forty heavily-ironed men had the pleasure of seeing each other's faces every day for six hours.

The other inmates of the prison were at work on the roads, or otherwise bestowed in the day
time, but the forty were judged too desperate to be let loose. They sat, three feet apart,
in two long lines, each man with a heap of stones between his outstretched legs, and cracked
the pebbles in leisurely fashion. The double row of dismal woodpeckers tapping at this terribly
hollow beech-tree of penal discipline had a semi-ludicrous appearance. It seemed so painfully
absurd that forty muscular men should be ironed and guarded for no better purpose than the
cracking of a cartload of quartz-pebbles. In the meantime the air was heavy with angry glances
shot from one to the other, and the passage of the parson was hailed by a grumbling undertone
of blasphemy. It was considered fashionable to grunt when the hammer came in contact with the
stone, and under cover of this mock exclamation of fatigue, it was convenient to launch an
oath. A fanciful visitor, seeing the irregularly rising hammers along the line, might have
likened the shed to the interior of some vast piano, whose notes an unseen hand was erratically
fingering. Rufus Dawes was seated last on the line--his back to the cells, his face to the
gaol wall. This was the place nearest the watching constable, and was allotted on that account
to the most ill-favoured. Some of his companions envied him that melancholy distinction.

"Well, Dawes," says Mr. Meekin, measuring with his eye the distance between the prisoner and
himself, as one might measure the chain of some ferocious dog. "How are you this morning, Dawes?"

Dawes, scowling in a parenthesis between the cracking of two stones, was understood to say
that he was very well.

"I am afraid, Dawes," said Mr. Meekin reproachfully, "that you have done yourself no good by
your outburst in court on Monday. I understand that public opinion is quite incensed against you."

Dawes, slowly arranging one large fragment of bluestone in a comfortable basin of smaller fragments,
made no reply.

"I am afraid you lack patience, Dawes. You do not repent of your offences against the law, I fear."

The only answer vouchsafed by the ironed man--if answer it could be called--was a savage blow,
which split the stone into sudden fragments, and made the clergyman skip a step backward.

"You are a hardened ruffian, sir! Do you not hear me speak to you?"

"I hear you," said Dawes, picking up another stone.

"Then listen respectfully, sir," said Meekin, roseate with celestial anger. "You have all day
to break those stones."

"Yes, I have all day," returned Rufus Dawes, with a dogged look upward, "and all next day,
for that matter. Ugh!" and again the hammer descended.

"I came to console you, man--to console you," says Meekin, indignant at the contempt with which
his well-meant overtures had been received. "I wanted to give you some good advice!" Virgen de la Candelaria! Run you, man, you run!

And the goalkeeper was headed, step between steps, the guard cell, and five minutes after upper
back with the license, his paternity was not to antagonize the ogre
insides desire pregnant.

- You can put the girl's will with all the
holy family.

And another lego assumed the duties of guide and Cicero

Of course, in many cases the stomach was sticking, that is, roll of
cloth, but or guardian or keeper could get to find out.

For them it was vaulted belly passport in order.

And in the convents of friars went to the monasteries of nuns, and
each returning visit home the girl on the whim bearing flowers, cherries
and apricots, scapulars and pills.

The participating comrades also of blessed bread.

And the procession in Lima lasted a month at least.

An archbishop, to stop the abuse and not daring to break away from usual provided that the capricious
Lima seek the license, not monastic authority, but of the curia,
but as he had to spend on a piece of paper stamped and signed application
and return the next day by the decree, started to decrease cravings.

His successor, Mr La Reguera, cut the root of the evil one no answer
to the first round neighbor who was with the effort.

- What if unfavorably,
illustrious sir? - Insisted the candidate.

- That I do not understand,
my dear, I'm no midwife, but archbishop.

And the good news is that there is a tradition that has aborted Lima not walk cloisters.

* * *

Among the manuscripts at the Royal Academy of History in Madrid, form the collection of Matalinares,
curious file documents relating to America, there is one (notebook 3 º of Volume LXXVII) codex
is just an excerpt of a process that Peru gave reason the girl's whim.

Keeper of the Recoleta of Cajamarca was, for the years 1806, Fray Fernando Jesus Arce, who, contrary
to the archbishop and disciplinary provision, given to allow the walk around Christian cloister
to the ground asked him the delicate ailment. The authority was civil or did not do their reasons for
seeking to heel, and armed process and fat.

Commissioner General's father supported the father Arce, presenting, among other arguments, the
following that, in his view, was crucial and decisive: - The conservation of the fetus is natural
right and the precept of positive law is closing, and the latter
would not be considered charitable exposing a woman to abortion.

Arce's father said to him was a matter of conscience consent to the whim feminine as once refused to
grant a license acontecióle that, three days, he presented the girl's fancy carrying the fetus
in a jar and blaming him for their misfortune. He added the father Arce that he had to go another little
soul in limbo, he was not with livers for an ugly pregnant woman cravings.

The vicar foreign men was seen in a hurry to give his ruling, and
requested the opinion of Matalinares, who was the then prosecutor
of the Audiencia of Lima.

Said Matalinares not the risk of the fetus, but corrupt and considerations of convenience or
privileges Apostolic for certain persons of distinction, had tolerated
the entry of women at close of regular, and the cravings that was
grid and concern.

In short, I ended view that it would prevent the father commissary general ordered the guardian
of the Recoleta pretext for any visits thereafter consented to skirts, under the penalties designated
by the Bull of Benedict XV, promulgated in January 3, 1742.

The vicar, as authorized by relying on opinion, ruled against the keeper, but this is not given
by defeat, and appealed to the bishop, who confirmed the decision.

Fray Fernando Arce Jesus was headstrong, and said at first that they
disregarded the mandate come until the Pope himself, but his friend,
the general curator, got appease saying

- Reverend Father, better
skill than strength.

For the question above all is self-love it will be safe and not adhering
to compliance.

Arce's father was thoughtful one minute, and then sticking a slap on the forehead as who has
been at the crux of intricate matter, said:

- Cabalito! That's it!

And in the act made formal renunciation of guardianship, and not for another office with owl
sending little souls in limbo.

THE GOOD FRIDAY Llorona

TRADITIONAL ANTIQUE TABLE MANNERS

Existed in Lima, until fifty years ago, a women's scribbled all pilongas to wrinkles and poor louse,
whose office was to whine and throw tears as chickpeas. What a bitch profession and evil thing!
What is unique is that every member was old as sin, ugly as a gossip and quilted witches and
hoodlums. In Spain dábanlas the plañidoras name, but in these kingdoms of Peru are baptized with the
pain or crying.

The colonial government did its best to banish them, I'll try a side or regulation duels that
Viceroy Teodoro de Croix sent enact in Lima dated August 31 1786, and have had opportunity
to read in volume XXXVIII of Various Papers Library National. It says at face value, Article
12 of the side: "The use of crying or plañidoras, as opposed to the
maxims of our religion as contrary to law, is perpetually outlawed
and abolished the contrevening imposing the sentence of one month
of service in a hospital, or bakery house of mercy.

" It seems that this camp was like many others, dead letter.

As soon died neighbor who leave finance to pay a decent funeral, when the executor and relatives
were poured through the streets in search of more fame llorona, which was responsible to hire
the gossips who had to accompany. The stipend, as says an old I have consulted cento was four
pesos for the mourner in chief and two for each subordinate.

And when the mourners, casting of lavish, adding some realejos on
price rate, then the sore were also forced to do something extraordinary,
and this thing was to accompany the crying with patatuses, epileptic
seizures and Repelon.

Them together with the so-called ax poor, who attended with a candle in hand, waiting to the
church door and out of the body to give vent to his grief contraband.

Say what you want against them, but what I contend is that the money
earned conscience.

Tell them so trained that it seems as if carried inside the body a Store tears they were so good fake,
thanks to the record of spending by eyes fingers dipped in juice of garlic and onions. Frequently,
and had known them to scatter as the Moor Muza, and lying was a glad exalting between sighs and sorrows
the qualities of the deceased.

- Ay, ay! So generous and charitable! - And that was in the drawer had been usurious nothing less.

-
Ay, ay! So brave and courageous! - Had tied the unfortunate consequence
of the gear evil of terror that caused the elves and penalties.

-
Ay, ay! So honest and good Christian! - And the deceased had been
for his tricks and so calloused that brought consciousness worthy
to die in high position, ie on the gallows.

And this tone were the lamentations.

Did not end here the mission of the mourners. There was still the tail to be skinned, that
is, the ceremony receiving the mourning house of the deceased for
thirty nights.

Enlutábanse draped black, block room, shining a beacon or windshield covered with a veil that
barely left guessing light or oil light a moth bouncing something
like hint of clarity, but actually served only to make the darkness
more terrifying.

From seven in the evening the friends of the deceased in the room fell silent and were seated without
a word.

A duel was in plain consecration of dumb.

The block was the headquarters of the skirts and fleas.

The men imitated friends not to move their lips, which, all things considered, should be harsh
penance for the daughters of Eve. Only to blow it lawful for them weeping loudly and launch from time
to time one oh Jesus! or cavernous breath, which seemed to complain of another world.

Silly scenes happened in the games.

A mischievous, for example, long half-dozen of mice on the block,
and then arming of screaming, running, screaming and tantrums.

Fortunately, at the stroke of eight reception ended: here were the troubles between women. None
wanted to be the first to get up. This act was called breaking the buck.

In the end it was decided to give this show some courage, and approaching the inconsolable not
always widow, he said:

- How you be! God's will be done.

Be satisfied, my daughter, that he is among saints and resting in this ungrateful world. Do not
give the penalty, that is offending who can do anything.

And all would leave with the same litany.

When the family returned to offer his condolences, of course we put
on the table to the widow and competition, and cut the girls, with
the scissors that God gave them, a gorgeous tunics.

What is a grandmother or an aunt, who had the runny nose from going to meet the widow asked.

-
Who broke the buck?

- Doña Stateira, the wife of a notary.

- She had to be, the scoundrel!

It is ... a woman who has the courage to call Stateira! ...

For more than cavilo I fail to realize why this grumbling. Caramba! I guess that a visit should
not be eternal, and someone has to lead by example in taking the road the door, and that no
offense against God or neighbor called Stateira.

On each night the police car received a penny columnar and a chocolate muffin. And do not forget
that lasted a month fair bargain.

Only in the death of the children had no role to play the mourners. Already go! Angels in Heaven!

But
among all plañidoras had one that was more, the ne plus ultra of the genre, and only deigned
to attend funeral of viceroy, of bishops or very exalted personages. Distinguished with the title
of the weeping of Good Friday. The people called it by another name which, not blush to our
readers, we at the bottom of the inkwell.

Thus, it was said: - The funeral of Mr. John Doe has been of good
best.

To tell you girl until the police car was on Good Friday the church door!

To me there is only a desecration than this, and is performed annually in large cities, to walk
or pilgrimage, in November, the cemetery is undertaken.

Vanity of the living and not the sorrow of the bereaved is who that
day decorating the graves with flowers, ribbons and symbolic crowns
.-- What would they say about us? - say the loving relatives -.

It should others see that we spend estate -. And I found vanity even in death, says more learned
from books.

The gravestones are the subject of derision and defamation in that pilgrimage.

- Man! - Says one lad to another chisgarabís of braising, by reviewing
the tablets -.

Look who's here ... La Carmencita ... Do not you remember, boy? ... Which was dear to me cousin,
the banker, and cost an arm and a leg ... Girl very charitable ... and pretty, that yes, only
he painted eyebrows and pursed her mouth to hide a chipped tooth .-- Precious Crown will have
to don Melquiades! Best put his wife in life .-- Good mausoleum has
Junipero gift!

Could be better, that's why he stole a lot when he was Minister of Finance! Valiente rascal!
- Look at the epitaph that have made Mr. Milo, who was but a donkey
with gold hardware and silver saddle.

Call fount of knowledge and wisdom in this great Crab! - Great Fox was Dona Remedios! I met a
whole lot. As it almost had an affair with her husband Juan Lanas! - I did not know he had already
killed the Marquis of Algarrobo. Good old has gone to the hole! As it was a contemporary of
the spurs of Pizarro! - Geez!

Here's a dedicated patriot, those who give wing to eat the breast and they know take advantage
of any calamity.

And just to show of irreverent gossip. These slanderers hair comes to the couplet popular:

The shoe bring broken, how it remedaré? With peaks that spread gossip
that is not.

The real pain flees from the noise.

Go for a walk to the cemetery the day of deceased for viewing and
be seen, by the thing - where are you going Vincent?, where are all
the people - as will the plaza de toros, for novelty and for killing
time, is to commit the most disgusting and stupid sacrilege.

Let alone the dead and return to the mourners.

Parents of Mercy, in competition with what were the Augustinians Eve, drew Good Friday procession
in a litter with the tomb of Christ, and behind them and surrounded by many devout, was a disheveled
woman, yelling, cursing Judas, Caiaphas, Pilate and all the executioners,
and the funny thing is that, without being shocked soul living throwing
the Jews as risqué apostrophes point as the children call them ...
the bad word.

In the chapel of Vera Cruz also came at eleven at night, the famous procession Minerva, which,
as everyone knows, were sponsored by the noble descendants of the
companions Pizarro, who was the founder of the noble brotherhood and
got sent to the Pope for a piece of the true church lignun Cross,
relic that still retain the Dominicans.

But this procession was all severity, while luxury and grandeur. The aristocracy never gave room for
the mourners, leaving the popular motif for the procession of Our
Lady of Mercy.

Archbishop Bartolomé María de las Heras had not enjoyed
such masquerades, and the first year, which was the 1807, where he
attended the procession, into the street, stop litter ordered to withdraw
this outrageous woman with no respect for the sanctity of the day
dared to pronounce curses unclean.

Would you believe that the people
crowded around to stop it? For as it sounds. No missing rather than
detract from the procession it eliminates the whining!

The shrewd
archbishop smiled, accepting the will of the people ordered to take
its course the procession, but in the next year to ban all such fortitude
to Mercy desecration.

Regarding the burial plañidoras, they molt
for a few years.

As seen in this light box, if there in Lima office
was productive of the mourners. But then came the homeland with all
its train of wickedness, and from then gives creeps die, then takes
a neighborhood to move certain that does not have to mourn in order.

To
the crybabies we have replaced with something worse if it ... with
the obituaries in the newspapers.

A SWIM, FISH! 

It is possible
that some of my readers have forgotten that the area where today stands
the railway station in Lima to Callao was not remote days the church,
convent and parents of Saint John of God Hospital.

At the time of
Viceroy Avilés, ie at the beginning of the century, existed in the
above Convent of San Juan de Dios a layman and advanced in years,
known among the people with the nickname of the father Carapulcra,
as he was the damage came on his face did smallpox.

Carapulcra father
enjoyed the reputation as a man of very sharp wit, and he attributed
many popular proverbs and sayings spicy.

Although the brothers hospital
had made vows of poverty, our lay not so bald had not buried in a
corner of his cell, five thousand dollars in gold ounces.

Gatherings
at the convent was a lad, of those who used gold earring in left ear
and looked Philippine silk handkerchief in the pocket of his jacket,
talking lisp, and that were in the revels of dompreciso mediopelo,
which sucked more than sponge and strumming a great time, doing wonders
that the strings of the guitar.

"Well, I'm blessed if I rightly know, your honour," says Jenkins. "He was over the wall before
you could say 'knife'. Scott fired and missed him, and then I heard the sentry's musket, but
he missed him, too."

"Missed him!" cries Frere. "Pretty fellows you are, all of you! I suppose you couldn't hit
a haystack at twenty yards? Why, the man wasn't three feet from the end of your carbine!"

The unlucky Scott, standing in melancholy attitude by the empty irons, muttered something about
the sun having been in his eyes. "I don't know how it was, sir. I ought to have hit him, for
certain. I think I did touch him, too, as he went up the wall."

A stranger to the customs of the place might have imagined that he was listening to a conversation
about a pigeon match.

"Tell me all about it," says Frere, with an angry curse. "I was just turning, your honour,
when I hears Scott sing out 'Hullo!' and when I turned round, I saw Dawes's irons on the ground,
and him a-scrambling up the heap o' stones yonder. The two men on my right jumped up, and I
thought it was a made-up thing among 'em, so I covered 'em with my carbine, according to instructions,
and called out that I'd shoot the first that stepped out. Then I heard Scott's piece, and the
men gave a shout like. When I looked round, he was gone."

"Nobody else moved?"

"No, sir. I was confused at first, and thought they were all in it, but Parton and Haines they
runs in and gets between me and the wall, and then Mr. Short he come, and we examined their irons."

"All right?"

"All right, your honour; and they all swore they knowed nothing of it. I know Dawes's irons
was all right when he went to dinner."

Frere stopped and examined the empty fetters. "All right be hanged," he said. "If you don't
know your duty better than this, the sooner you go somewhere else the better, my man. Look here!"

The two ankle fetters were severed. One had been evidently filed through, and the other broken
transversely. The latter was bent, as from a violent blow.

"Don't know where he got the file from," said Warder Short.

"Know! Of course you don't know. You men never do know anything until the mischief's done.
You want me here for a month or so. I'd teach you your duty! Don't know--with things like this
lying about? I wonder the whole yard isn't loose and dining with the Governor."

"This" was a fragment of delft pottery which Frere's quick eye had detected among the broken metal.

"I'd cut the biggest iron you've got with this; and so would he and plenty more, I'll go bail.
You ought to have lived with me at Sarah Island, Mr. Short. Don't know!"

"Well, Captain Frere, it's an accident," says Short, "and can't be helped now."

"An accident!" roared Frere. "What business have you with accidents? How, in the devil's name,
you let the man get over the wall, I don't know."

"He ran up that stone heap," says Scott, "and seemed to me to jump at the roof of the shed.
I fired at him, and he swung his legs over the top of the wall and dropped."

Frere measured the distance from his eye, and an irrepressible feeling of admiration, rising
out of his own skill in athletics, took possession of him for an instant.

"By the Lord Harry, but it's a big jump!" he said; and then the instinctive fear with which
the consciousness of the hideous wrong he had done the now escaped convict inspired him, made
him add: "A desperate villain like that wouldn't stick at a murder if you pressed him hard.
Which way did he go?"

"Right up Macquarie Street, and then made for the mountain. There were few people about, but
Mr. Mays, of the Star Hotel, tried to stop him, and was knocked head over heels. He says the
fellow runs like a deer."

"We'll have the reward out if we don't get him to-night," says Frere, turning away; "and you'd
better put on an extra warder. This sort of game is catching." And he strode away to the Barracks.

From right to left, from east to west, through the prison city flew the signal of alarm, and
the patrol, clattering out along the road to New Norfolk, made hot haste to strike the trail
of the fugitive. But night came and found him yet at large, and the patrol returning, weary
and disheartened, protested that he must be lying hid in some gorge of the purple mountain
that overshadowed the town, and would have to be starved into submission. Meanwhile the usual
message ran through the island, and so admirable were the arrangements which Arthur the reformer
had initiated, that, before noon of the next day, not a signal station on the coast but knew
that No. 8942, etc., etc., prisoner for life, was illegally at large. This intelligence, further
aided by a paragraph in the Gazette anent the "Daring Escape", noised abroad, the world cared
little that the Mary Jane, Government schooner, had sailed for Port Arthur without Rufus Dawes.

But two or three persons cared a good deal. Major Vickers, for one, was indignant that his
boasted security of bolts and bars should have been so easily defied, and in proportion to
his indignation was the grief of Messieurs Jenkins, Scott, and Co., suspended from office,
and threatened with absolute dismissal. Mr. Meekin was terribly frightened at the fact that
so dangerous a monster should be roaming at large within reach of his own saintly person. Sylvia
had shown symptoms of nervous terror, none the less injurious because carefully repressed;
and Captain Maurice Frere was a prey to the most cruel anxiety. He had ridden off at a hand-gallop
within ten minutes after he had reached the Barracks, and had spent the few hours of remaining
daylight in scouring the country along the road to the North. At dawn the next day he was away
to the mountain, and with a black-tracker at his heels, explored as much of that wilderness
of gully and chasm as nature permitted to him. He had offered to double the reward, and had
examined a number of suspicious persons. It was known that he had been inspecting the prison
a few hours before the escape took place, and his efforts were therefore attributed to zeal,
not unmixed with chagrin. "Our dear friend feels his reputation at stake," the future chaplain
of Port Arthur said to Sylvia at the Christmas dinner. "He is so proud of his knowledge of
these unhappy men that he dislikes to be outwitted by any of them."

Notwithstanding all this, however, Dawes had disappeared. The fat landlord of the Star Hotel
was the last person who saw him, and the flying yellow figure seemed to have been as completely
swallowed up by the warm summer's afternoon as if it had run headlong into the blackest night
that ever hung above the earth.

CHAPTER IX. JOHN REX'S LETTER HOME.

The "little gathering" of which Major Vickers had spoken to Mr. Meekin, had grown into something
larger than he had anticipated. Instead of a quiet dinner at which his own household, his daughter's
betrothed, and the stranger clergyman only should be present, the Major found himself entangled
with Mesdames Protherick and Jellicoe, Mr. McNab of the garrison, and Mr. Pounce of the civil
list. His quiet Christmas dinner had grown into an evening party.

The conversation was on the usual topic. With whose sudden cunning Indians
  are perplexed, flew through the shortcuts they knew, the passage
  or ford a stream, called Chuniebí, which is not far from
  the town of San Miguel, but just five miles. This fortified
  the pass, and banks the river with stockades, and having taken
  the town of San Miguel dos iron guns, and made haste to all
  other Five of hard wood (llámanla Tajibo, and the Indians Tayi)
  were posted to defend the referral Miguelistas step. Insensibly
  others returned to their villages neighbors, to care for, as
  they said, to save them wives, children and daughters.
  
  111.

  The enemy meanwhile was arrested four days following payment
  or stay, such Ibicuá, partly by rain, some for other reasons.
  Although he was already so near the enemy could not persuade enough
  Indians save your stuff. Finally morning joined the Michael
  to take the most precious jewels of the temple to Piratini
  the courage, to a chapel made of lawns, a old people, and this
  occasion was persuaded to the same San Lorenzo, and then the
  Johannine and angel. But carried the slack these things, and not
  farther than the two leagues in town.
  
  112.

  On the 10th of May, the enemy approached the river, but received
  with the artillery that was hidden in the jungle were killed,
  as they say, 64, including in this issue the Gentiles killed in
  encounters. However, moved forward, backward which defended
  the banks the creek.
  

  113. On day 11, entering some other Nicole soldiers the people of
  San Miguel, got all the sex and age people weaker, and so left
  the women and almost all children, to be scattered over the fields
  towards the Piratini.

  
  114. Day 12. Having the enemy encamped in the quarries of people,
  nearly three miles distant from him, and now in sight, the nightfall,
  PP. the town of San Miguel were also fled to the Piratini, not
  saving any of the people San Miguel, but hidden here and there,
  and buried things went. This was due to lack of oxen and horses
  that carry the dishes in cars, because in these days, moving,
  as usual, a dissension between Indians do not know why suspect,
  originated from, which have made horses to a fellow named Tary,
  who had gone over to the enemies, that he's had enough fat, coming
  from the Spanish in others weak and exhausted, as the soldiers other
  peoples, to those poor Miguelistas removed almost all horses and
  oxen. From here was born that, after departure of the PP., soldiers
  of other nations, especially San Nicolas, the angels and Thomists,
  caught all baggage and supplies that had been left in the village,
  Having smashed the doors and beat up the porter, is taken as
  found, and after the house ransacked PP., he set fire, which,
  taking shape on the roofs, discovered many things that were hidden
  in the paneling, leaving it prey to the Indians who did not drink.
  Also set fire to the town, but the heavy rain that fell tonight
  put out the fire, burning all the house of the PP., but not the
  church, to which spared the flames, if tackled dudándose patron
  saint of San Miguel, or by high walls stone.
  
  115. Meanwhile, Fr., With all the common people, became very rainy
  night in the field without tents. However, trageron the next
  day, May 13, and the people having been locked in the women faculty,
which call collected, as they saw the flames, and they suspected that
was severely beaten doors, and out of place the loose, and San Angel
took them to his people.

   "'My Dear Father,--Through all the chances, changes, and
vicissitudes of my chequered life, I never had a task so painful to my mangled feelings as
the present one, of addressing you from this doleful spot--my sea-girt prison, on the beach
of which I stand a monument of destruction, driven by the adverse winds of fate to the confines
of black despair, and into the vortex of galling misery.'"

"Poetical!" said Frere.

"'I am just like a gigantic tree of the forest which has stood many a wintry blast, and stormy
tempest, but now, alas! I am become a withered trunk, with all my greenest and tenderest branches
lopped off. Though fast attaining middle age, I am not filling an envied and honoured post
with credit and respect. No--I shall be soon wearing the garb of degradation, and the badge
and brand of infamy at P.A., which is, being interpreted, Port Arthur, the 'Villain's Home'."

"Poor fellow!" said Sylvia.

"Touching, is it not?" assented Meekin, continuing--

"'I am, with heartrending sorrow and anguish of soul, ranged and mingled with the Outcasts
of Society. My present circumstances and pictures you will find well and truly drawn in the
102nd Psalm, commencing with the 4th verse to the 12th inclusive, which, my dear father, I
request you will read attentively before you proceed any further.'"

"Hullo!" said Frere, pulling out his pocket-book, "what's that? Read those numbers again."
Mr. Meekin complied, and Frere grinned. "Go on," he said. "I'll show you something in that
letter directly."

"'Oh, my dear father, avoid, I beg of you, the reading of profane books. Let your mind dwell
upon holy things, and assiduously study to grow in grace. Psalm lxxiii 2. Yet I have hope even
in this, my desolate condition. Psalm xxxv 18. "For the Lord our God is merciful, and inclineth
His ear unto pity".'"

"Blasphemous dog!" said Vickers. "You don't believe all that, Meekin, do you?" The parson reproved
him gently. "Wait a moment, sir, until I have finished."

"'Party spirit runs very high, even in prison in Van Diemen's Land. I am sorry to say that
a licentious press invariably evinces a very great degree of contumely, while the authorities
are held in respect by all well-disposed persons, though it is often endeavoured by some to
bring on them the hatred and contempt of prisoners. But I am glad to tell you that all their
efforts are without avail; but, nevertheless, do not read in any colonial newspaper. There
is so much scurrility and vituperation in their productions.'"

"That's for your benefit, Frere," said Vickers, with a smile. "You remember what was said about
your presence at the race meetings?"

"Of course," said Frere. "Artful scoundrel! Go on, Mr. Meekin, pray."

"'I am aware that you will hear accounts of cruelty and tyranny, said, by the malicious and
the evil-minded haters of the Government and Government officials, to have been inflicted by
gaolers on convicts. To be candid, this is not the dreadful place it has been represented to
be by vindictive writers. Severe flogging and heavy chaining is sometimes used, no doubt, but
only in rare cases; and nominal punishments are marked out by law for slight breaches of discipline.
So far as I have an opportunity of judging, the lash is never bestowed unless merited.'"

"As far as he is concerned, I don't doubt it!" said Frere, cracking a walnut.

"'The texts of Scripture quoted by our chaplain have comforted me much, and I have much to
be grateful for; for after the rash attempt I made to secure my freedom, I have reason to be
thankful for the mercy shown to me. Death--dreadful death of soul and body--would have been
my portion; but, by the mercy of Omnipotence, I have been spared to repentance--John iii. I
have now come to bitterness. Honesty is the best policy, I am convinced, and I would not for
£1,000 repeat my evil courses--Psalm xxxviii 14. When I think of the happy days I once passed
with good Mr. Blicks, in the old house in Blue Anchor Yard, and reflect that since that happy
time I have recklessly plunged in sin, and stolen goods and watches, studs, rings, and jewellery,
become, indeed, a common thief, I tremble with remorse, and fly to prayer--Psalm v. Oh what
sinners we are! Let me hope that now I, by God's blessing placed beyond temptation, will live
safely, and that some day I even may, by the will of the Lord Jesus, find mercy for my sins.
Some kind of madness has method in it, but madness of sin holds us without escape. Such is,
dear father, then, my hope and trust for my remaining life here--Psalm c 74. I owe my bodily
well-being to Captain Maurice Frere, who was good enough to speak of my conduct in reference
to the Osprey, when, with Shiers, Barker, and others, we captured that vessel. Pray for Captain
Frere, my dear father. He is a good man, and though his public duty is painful and trying to
his feelings, yet, as a public functionary, he could not allow his private feelings, whether
of mercy or revenge, to step between him and his duty.'"

"Confound the rascal!" said Frere, growing crimson.

"'Remember me most affectionately to Sarah and little William, and all friends who yet cherish
the recollection of me, and bid them take warning by my fate, and keep from evil courses. A
good conscience is better than gold, and no amount can compensate for the misery incident to
a return to crime. Whether I shall ever see you again, dear father, is more than uncertain;
for my doom is life, unless the Government alter their plans concerning me, and allow me an
opportunity to earn my freedom by hard work.

"'The blessing of God rest with you, my dear father, and that you may be washed white in the
blood of the Lamb is the prayer of your

"'Unfortunate Son,' "John Rex" 'P.S.---Though your sins be as scarlet they shall be whiter
than snow.'"

"Is that all?" said Frere.

"That is all, sir, and a very touching letter it is."

"So it is," said Frere. "Now let me have it a moment, Mr. Meekin."

He took the paper, and referring to the numbers of the texts which he had written in his pocket-book,
began to knit his brows over Mr. John Rex's impious and hypocritical production. "I thought
so," he said, at length. "Those texts were never written for nothing. It's an old trick, but
cleverly done."

"What do you mean?" said Meekin. "Mean!" cries Frere, with a smile at his own acuteness. "This
precious composition contains a very gratifying piece of intelligence for Mr. Blicks, whoever
he is. Some receiver, I've no doubt. Look here, Mr. Meekin. Take the letter and this pencil,
and begin at the first text. The 102nd Psalm, from the 4th verse to the 12th inclusive, doesn't
he say? Very good; that's nine verses, isn't it? Well, now, underscore nine consecutive words
from the second word immediately following the next text quoted, 'I have hope,' etc. Have you
got it?"

"Yes," says Meekin, astonished, while all heads bent over the table.

"Well, now, his text is the eighteenth verse of the thirty-fifth Psalm, isn't it? Count eighteen
words on, then underscore five consecutive ones. You've done that?"

"A moment--sixteen--seventeen--eighteen, 'authorities'."

"Count and score in the same way until you come to the word 'Texts' somewhere. 

  1836.

  

  
  JOURNAL OF SPEECH PRE P. Henis.
  
  The combined efforts of two great European powers did not sufficient
  to comply with the treaty of 1750, which was to demarcate
  their vast estates in America.

  A representation respectful of the PP. of the Society
  of Jesus, who had to wrong assignment of Eastern missions, followed
  the riots, which soon ended in a general insurrection.
  
  The preliminaries of the treaty had been adjusted secretly with King
  John V against the vote of his ministers, they had much more
  important for the conservation of Colonia del Sacramento, the projected
  acquisition in Uruguay margins. But Joseph I, who adhered to the
  view of his father and predecessor, authorized to Gomez Freyre
  de Andrade, Governor and Captain General of Rio de Janeiro, for the
delivery of the Colony, while the Marques de Valdelirios filled the
commitments made by his Catholic Majesty, seconded by P. Altamirano,
who also came in kind of commissioner.

  
  
  Then which is reflected in the terms of this Còrdoba treaty,
  P. Barreda, provincial then met a query to expose the Viceroy
  and the audience of the damages that Inferi to the rights
  of the Crown, of the Company, and peoples. Fr Lozano, who was
  tasked with writing office, failed to produce anything convincing,
  and P. Quiroga, who enjoyed great cosmographer concept formed a
  map, which (as mentioned) distorts the field, to make most compelling
arguments for the consultants.

  
  
  These maneuvers, and the power of the PP. Missionaries on their neophytes,
  and exposed to the charge of having fostered, or favored
  the insurrection of the Indians. Attended to prove this kind
  of events to and from the Mara, where a Commissioner of the
  King of Portugal, in identical circumstances, is the same obstacles
  in the north, and Valdelirios Freyre in the south. There was
  no bear arms, because people had to give, no territory to
  evacuate, but denied aid, was locked operations, leaving Parages
wasteland where the debian move the markers.

  
  
  Funes, who recorded the files in the viceroyalty, recounts that
  the interview was the captain with the chief Sepé Zavala Tyaragú
  in the town of San Miguel, said this "circulating in those people
  a letter from the Governor of Buenos Aires, addressed to
  the Superior of the Missions, ordered the Indians to the use
  of force in defense of its territory and not allow entry to any Portuguese:
enfin, than those were the instructions they had of their parish priests.

  "[1]
  
  This statement is confirmed in several places Henis diary, they discover
  the error in which they lived the PP., "The Indians would do a
  great service to the King, if defended, opposed and resisted with
all his might, while waiting for Providence Europe than expected.

  "[2]
  
  Along the same lines expressing the P. Ravage, confessor imbecil
  Fernando VI, ensuring Superior of Missions, which King,
  a victim of the intrigues of his counselor Carvajal, author the treaty
was not until then had opposed cowardice and ignorance.

  
  
  Meanwhile the insurrection, which spread in the villages Missions,
leaving no more arbitrary than the power to suffocate.

"Maurice! My dear Maurice!"

"I beg your pardon, Meekin," says Maurice, with clumsy apology; "but I know these fellows.
I've lived among 'em, I came out in a ship with 'em, I've talked with 'em, and drank with 'em,
and I'm down to all their moves, don't you see. The Bible is the only book they get hold of,
and texts are the only bits of learning ever taught 'm, and being chockfull of villainy and
plots and conspiracies, what other book should they make use of to aid their infernal schemes
but the one that the chaplain has made a text book for 'em?" And Maurice rose in disgust, not
unmixed with self-laudation.

"Dear me, it is really very terrible," says Meekin, who was not ill-meaning, but only self-complacent--"very
terrible indeed."

"But unhappily true," said Mr. Pounce. "An olive? Thanks."

"Upon me soul!" burst out honest McNab, "the hail seestem seems to be maist ill-calculated
tae advance the wark o' reeformation."

"Mr. McNab, I'll trouble you for the port," said equally honest Vickers, bound hand and foot
in the chains of the rules of the services. And so, what seemed likely to become a dangerous
discussion upon convict discipline, was stifled judiciously at the birth. But Sylvia, prompted,
perhaps, by curiosity, perhaps by a desire to modify the parson's chagrin, in passing Mr. Meekin,
took up the "confession," that lay unopened beside his wine glass, and bore it off.

"Come, Mr. Meekin," said Vickers, when the door closed behind the ladies, "help yourself. I
am sorry the letter turned out so strangely, but you may rely on Frere, I assure you. He knows
more about convicts than any man on the island."

"I see, Captain Frere, that you have studied the criminal classes."

"So I have, my dear sir, and know every turn and twist among 'em. I tell you my maxim. It's
some French fellow's, too, I believe, but that don't matter--divide to conquer. Set all the
dogs spying on each other."

"Oh!" said Meekin. "It's the only way. Why, my dear sir, if the prisoners were as faithful
to each other as we are, we couldn't hold the island a week. It's just because no man can trust
his neighbour that every mutiny falls to the ground."

"I suppose it must be so," said poor Meekin.

"It is so; and, by George, sir, if I had my way, I'd have it so that no prisoner should say
a word to his right hand man, but his left hand man should tell me of it. I'd promote the men
that peached, and make the beggars their own warders. Ha, ha!"

"But such a course, Captain Frere, though perhaps useful in a certain way, would surely produce
harm. It would excite the worst passions of our fallen nature, and lead to endless lying and
tyranny. I'm sure it would."

"Wait a bit," cries Frere. "Perhaps one of these days I'll get a chance, and then I'll try
it. Convicts! By the Lord Harry, sir, there's only one way to treat 'em; give 'em tobacco when
they behave 'emselves, and flog 'em when they don't."

"Terrible!" says the clergyman with a shudder. "You speak of them as if they were wild beasts."

"So they are," said Maurice Frere, calmly.

CHAPTER X. WHAT BECAME OF THE MUTINEERS OF THE "OSPREY"

At the bottom of the long luxuriant garden-ground was a rustic seat abutting upon the low wall
that topped the lane. The branches of the English trees (planted long ago) hung above it, and
between their rustling boughs one could see the reach of the silver river. Sitting with her
face to the bay and her back to the house, Sylvia opened the manuscript she had carried off
from Meekin, and began to read. It was written in a firm, large hand, and headed--

"A NARRATIVE OF THE SUFFERINGS AND ADVENTURES OF CERTAIN OF THE TEN CONVICTS WHO SEIZED THE
BRIG OSPREY, AT MACQUARIE HARBOUR, IN VAN DIEMEN'S LAND, RELATED BY ONE OF THE SAID CONVICTS
WHILE LYING UNDER SENTENCE FOR THIS OFFENCE IN THE GAOL AT HOBART TOWN."

Sylvia, having read this grandiloquent sentence, paused for a moment. The story of the mutiny,
which had been the chief event of her childhood, lay before her, and it seemed to her that,
were it related truly, she would comprehend something strange and terrible, which had been
for many years a shadow upon her memory. Longing, and yet fearing, to proceed, she held the
paper, half unfolded, in her hand, as, in her childhood, she had held ajar the door of some
dark room, into which she longed and yet feared to enter. Her timidity lasted but an instant.

          *          *          *          *          *

"When orders arrived from head-quarters to break up the penal settlement of Macquarie Harbour,
the Commandant (Major Vickers, --th Regiment) and most of the prisoners embarked on board a
colonial vessel, and set sail for Hobart Town, leaving behind them a brig that had been built
at Macquarie Harbour, to be brought round after them, and placing Captain Maurice Frere in
command. Left aboard her was Mr. Bates, who had acted as pilot at the settlement, also four
soldiers, and ten prisoners, as a crew to work the vessel. The Commandant's wife and child
were also aboard."

          *          *          *          *          *

"How strangely it reads," thought the girl.

          *          *          *          *          *

"On the 12th of January, 1834, we set sail, and in the afternoon anchored safely outside the
Gates; but a breeze setting in from the north-west caused a swell on the Bar, and Mr. Bates
ran back to Wellington Bay. We remained there all next day; and in the afternoon Captain Frere
took two soldiers and a boat, and went a-fishing. There were then only Mr. Bates and the other
two soldiers aboard, and it was proposed by William Cheshire to seize the vessel. I was at
first unwilling, thinking that loss of life might ensue; but Cheshire and the others, knowing
that I was acquainted with navigation--having in happier days lived much on the sea--threatened
me if I refused to join. A song was started in the folksle, and one of the soldiers, coming
to listen to it, was seized, and Lyon and Riley then made prisoner of the sentry. Forced thus
into a project with which I had at first but little sympathy, I felt my heart leap at the prospect
of freedom, and would have sacrificed all to obtain it. Maddened by the desperate hopes that
inspired me, I from that moment assumed the command of my wretched companions; and honestly
think that, however culpable I may have been in the eyes of the law, I prevented them from
the display of a violence to which their savage life had unhappily made them but too accustomed."

          *          *          *          *          *

"Poor fellow," said Sylvia, beguiled by Master Rex's specious paragraphs, "I think he was not
to blame."

          *          *          *          *          *

"Mr. Bates was below in the cabin, and on being summoned by Cheshire to surrender, with great
courage attempted a defence. Barker fired at him through the skylight, but fearful of the lives
of the Commandant's wife and child, I struck up his musket, and the ball passed through the
mouldings of the stern windows. At the same time, the soldiers whom we had bound in the folksle
forced up the hatch and came on deck. Cheshire shot the first one, and struck the other with
his clubbed musket. The wounded man lost his footing, and the brig lurching with the rising
tide, he fell into the sea. This was--by the blessing of God--the only life lost in the whole
affair.

"Mr. Bates, seeing now that we had possession of the deck, surrendered, upon promise that the
Commandant's wife and child should be put ashore in safety. I directed him to take such matters
as he needed, and prepared to lower the jolly-boat. As she swung off the davits, Captain Frere
came alongside in the whale-boat, and gallantly endeavoured to board us, but the boat drifted
past the vessel. I was now determined to be free--indeed, the minds of all on board were made
up to carry through the business--and hailing the whale-boat, swore to fire into her unless
she surrendered. Captain Frere refused, and was for boarding us again, but the two soldiers
joined with us, and prevented his intention. Having now got the prisoners into the jolly-boat,
we transferred Captain Frere into her, and being ourselves in the whale-boat, compelled Captain
Frere and Mr. Bates to row ashore. We then took the jolly-boat in tow, and returned to the
brig, a strict watch being kept for fear that they should rescue the vessel from us.

"At break of day every man was upon deck, and a consultation took place concerning the parting
of the provisions. Cheshire was for leaving them to starve, but Lesly, Shiers, and I held out
for an equal division. After a long and violent controversy, Humanity gained the day, and the
provisions were put into the whale-boat, and taken ashore. Upon the receipt of the provisions,
Mr. Bates thus expressed himself: 'Men, I did not for one moment expect such kind treatment
from you, regarding the provisions you have now brought ashore for us, out of so little which
there was on board. When I consider your present undertaking, without a competent navigator,
and in a leaky vessel, your situation seems most perilous; therefore I hope God will prove
kind to you, and preserve you from the manifold dangers you may have to encounter on the stormy
ocean.' Mrs. Vickers also was pleased to say that I had behaved kindly to her, that she wished
me well, and that when she returned to Hobart Town she would speak in my favour. They then
cheered us on our departure, wishing we might be prosperous on account of our humanity in sharing
the provisions with them.

"Having had breakfast, we commenced throwing overboard the light cargo which was in the hold,
which employed us until dinnertime. After dinner we ran out a small kedge-anchor with about
one hundred fathoms of line, and having weighed anchor, and the tide being slack, we hauled
on the kedge-line, and succeeded in this manner by kedging along, and we came to two islands,
called the Cap and Bonnet. The whole of us then commenced heaving the brig short, sending the
whale-boat to take her in tow, after we had tripped the anchor. By this means we got her safe
across the Bar. Scarcely was this done when a light breeze sprang up from the south-west, and
firing a musket to apprize the party we had left of our safety, we made sail and put out to sea."

Having read thus far, Sylvia paused in an agony of recollection. She remembered the firing
of the musket, and that her mother had wept over her. But beyond this all was uncertainty.
Memories slipped across her mind like shadows--she caught at them, and they were gone. Yet
the reading of this strange story made her nerves thrill. Despite the hypocritical grandiloquence
and affected piety of the narrative, it was easy to see that, save some warping of facts to
make for himself a better case, and to extol the courage of the gaolers who had him at their
mercy, the narrator had not attempted to better his tale by the invention of perils. The history
of the desperate project that had been planned and carried out five years before was related
with grim simplicity which (because it at once bears the stamp of truth, and forces the imagination
of the reader to supply the omitted details of horror), is more effective to inspire sympathy
than elaborate description. The very barrenness of the narration was hideously suggestive,
and the girl felt her heart beat quicker as her poetic intellect rushed to complete the terrible
picture sketched by the convict. She saw it all--the blue sea, the burning sun, the slowly
moving ship, the wretched company on the shore; she heard--Was that a rustling in the bushes
below her? A bird! How nervous she was growing!

"Being thus fairly rid--as we thought--of our prison life, we cheerfully held consultation
as to our future course. It was my intention to get among the islands in the South Seas, and
scuttling the brig, to pass ourselves off among the natives as shipwrecked seamen, trusting
to God's mercy that some homeward bound vessel might at length rescue us. With this view, I
made James Lesly first mate, he being an experienced mariner, and prepared myself, with what
few instruments we had, to take our departure from Birches Rock. Having hauled the whale-boat
alongside, we stove her, together with the jolly-boat, and cast her adrift. This done, I parted
the landsmen with the seamen, and, steering east south-east, at eight p.m. we set our first
watch. In little more than an hour after this came on a heavy gale from the south-west. I,
and others of the landsmen, were violently sea-sick, and Lesly had some difficulty in handling
the brig, as the boisterous weather called for two men at the helm. In the morning, getting
upon deck with difficulty, I found that the wind had abated, but upon sounding the well discovered
much water in the hold. Lesly rigged the pumps, but the starboard one only could be made to
work. From that time there were but two businesses aboard--from the pump to the helm. The gale
lasted two days and a night, the brig running under close-reefed topsails, we being afraid
to shorten sail lest we might be overtaken by some pursuing vessel, so strong was the terror
of our prison upon us.

"On the 16th, at noon, I again forced myself on deck, and taking a meridian observation, altered
the course of the brig to east and by south, wishing to run to the southward of New Zealand,
out of the usual track of shipping; and having a notion that, should our provisions hold out,
we might make the South American coast, and fall into Christian hands. This done, I was compelled
to retire below, and for a week lay in my berth as one at the last gasp. At times I repented
my resolution, Fair urging me to bestir myself, as the men were not satisfied with our course.
On the 21st a mutiny occurred, led by Lyons, who asserted we were heading into the Pacific,
and must infallibly perish. This disaffected man, though ignorant of navigation, insisted upon
steering to the south, believing that we had run to the northward of the Friendly Islands,
and was for running the ship ashore and beseeching the protection of the natives. Lesly in
vain protested that a southward course would bring us into icefields. Barker, who had served
on board a whaler, strove to convince the mutineers that the temperature of such latitudes
was too warm for such an error to escape us. After much noise, Lyons rushed to the helm, and
Russen, drawing one of the pistols taken from Mr. Bates, shot him dead, upon which the others
returned to their duty. This dreadful deed was, I fear, necessary to the safety of the brig;
and had it occurred on board a vessel manned by free-men, would have been applauded as a stern
but needful measure.

"Forced by these tumults upon deck, I made a short speech to the crew, and convinced them that
I was competent to perform what I had promised to do, though at the time my heart inwardly
failed me, and I longed for some sign of land. Supported at each arm by Lesly and Barker, I
took an observation, and altered our course to north by east, the brig running eleven knots
an hour under single-reefed topsails, and the pumps hard at work. So we ran until the 31st
of January, when a white squall took us, and nearly proved fatal to all aboard.

"Lesly now committed a great error, for, upon the brig righting (she was thrown upon her beam
ends, and her spanker boom carried away), he commanded to furl the fore-top sail, strike top-gallant
yards, furl the main course, and take a reef in the maintopsail, leaving her to scud under
single-reefed maintopsail and fore-sail. This caused the vessel to leak to that degree that
I despaired of reaching land in her, and prayed to the Almighty to send us speedy assistance.
For nine days and nights the storm continued, the men being utterly exhausted. One of the two
soldiers whom we had employed to fish the two pieces of the spanker boom, with some quartering
that we had, was washed overboard and drowned. Our provision was now nearly done, but the gale
abating on the ninth day, we hastened to put provisions on the launch. The sea was heavy, and
we were compelled to put a purchase on the fore and main yards, with preventers to windward,
to ease the launch in going over the side. We got her fairly afloat at last, the others battening
down the hatches in the brig. Having dressed ourselves in the clothes of Captain Frere and
the pilot, we left the brig at sundown, lying with her channel plates nearly under water.

"The wind freshening during the night, our launch, which might, indeed, be termed a long-boat,
having been fitted with mast, bowsprit, and main boom, began to be very uneasy, shipping two
seas one after the other. The plan we could devise was to sit, four of us about, in the stern
sheets, with our backs to the sea, to prevent the water pooping us. This itself was enough
to exhaust the strongest men. The day, however, made us some amends for the dreadful night.
Land was not more than ten miles from us; approaching as nearly as we could with safety, we
hauled our wind, and ran along in, trusting to find some harbour. At half-past two we sighted
a bay of very curious appearance, having two large rocks at the entrance, resembling pyramids.
Shiers, Russen, and Fair landed, in hopes of discovering fresh water, of which we stood much
in need. Before long they returned, stating that they had found an Indian hut, inside of which
were some rude earthenware vessels. Fearful of surprise, we lay off the shore all that night,
and putting into the bay very early in the morning, killed a seal. This was the first fresh
meat I had tasted for four years. It seemed strange to eat it under such circumstances. We
cooked the flippers, heart, and liver for breakfast, giving some to a cat which we had taken
with us out of the brig, for I would not, willingly, allow even that animal to perish. After
breakfast, we got under weigh; and we had scarcely been out half an hour when we had a fresh
breeze, which carried us along at the rate of seven knots an hour, running from bay to bay
to find inhabitants. Steering along the shore, as the sun went down, we suddenly heard the
bellowing of a bullock, and James Barker, whom, from his violent conduct, I thought incapable
of such sentiment, burst into tears.

"In about two hours we perceived great fires on the beach and let go anchor in nineteen fathoms
of water. We lay awake all that night. In the morning, we rowed further inshore, and moored
the boat to some seaweed. As soon as the inhabitants caught sight of us, they came down to
the beach. I distributed needles and thread among the Indians, and on my saying 'Valdivia,'
a woman instantly pointed towards a tongue of land to the southward, holding up three fingers,
and crying 'leaghos'! which I conjectured to be three leagues; the distance we afterwards found
it to be.

"About three o'clock in the afternoon, we weathered the point pointed out by the woman, and
perceived a flagstaff and a twelve-gun battery under our lee. I now divided among the men the
sum of six pounds ten shillings that I had found in Captain Frere's cabin, and made another
and more equal distribution of the clothing. There were also two watches, one of which I gave
to Lesly, and kept the other for myself. It was resolved among us to say that we were part
crew of the brig Julia, bound for China and wrecked in the South Seas. Upon landing at the
battery, we were heartily entertained, though we did not understand one word of what they said.
Next morning it was agreed that Lesly, Barker, Shiers, and Russen should pay for a canoe to
convey them to the town, which was nine miles up the river; and on the morning of the 6th March
they took their departure. On the 9th March, a boat, commanded by a lieutenant, came down with
orders that the rest of us should be conveyed to town; and we accordingly launched the boat
under convoy of the soldiers, and reached the town the same evening, in some trepidation. I
feared lest the Spaniards had obtained a clue as to our real character, and was not deceived--the
surviving soldier having betrayed us. This fellow was thus doubly a traitor--first, in deserting
his officer, and then in betraying his comrades.

"We were immediately escorted to prison, where we found our four companions. Some of them were
for brazening out the story of shipwreck, but knowing how confused must necessarily be our
accounts, were we examined separately, I persuaded them that open confession would be our best
chance of safety. On the 14th we were taken before the Intendente or Governor, who informed
us that we were free, on condition that we chose to live within the limits of the town. At
this intelligence I felt my heart grow light, and only begged in the name of my companions
that we might not be given up to the British Government; 'rather than which,' said I, 'I would
beg to be shot dead in the palace square.' The Governor regarded us with tears in his eyes,
and spoke as follows: 'My poor men, do not think that I would take that advantage over you.
Do not make an attempt to escape, and I will be your friend, and should a vessel come tomorrow
to demand you, you shall find I will be as good as my word. All I have to impress upon you
is, to beware of intemperance, which is very prevalent in this country, and when you find it
convenient, to pay Government the money that was allowed you for subsistence while in prison.'

"The following day we all procured employment in launching a vessel of three hundred tons burden,
and my men showed themselves so active that the owner said he would rather have us than thirty
of his own countrymen; which saying pleased the Governor, who was there with almost the whole
of the inhabitants and a whole band of music, this vessel having been nearly three years on
the stocks. After she was launched, the seamen amongst us helped to fit her out, being paid
fifteen dollars a month, with provisions on board. As for myself, I speedily obtained employment
in the shipbuilder's yard, and subsisted by honest industry, almost forgetting, in the unwonted
pleasures of freedom, the sad reverse of fortune which had befallen me. To think that I, who
had mingled among gentlemen and scholars, should be thankful to labour in a shipwright's yard
by day, and sleep on a bundle of hides by night! But this is personal matter, and need not
be obtruded.

"In the same yard with me worked the soldier who had betrayed us, and I could not but regard
it as a special judgment of Heaven when he one day fell from a great height and was taken up
for dead, dying in much torment in a few hours. The days thus passed on in comparative happiness
until the 20th of May, 1836, when the old Governor took his departure, regretted by all the
inhabitants of Valdivia, and the Achilles, a one-and-twenty-gun brig of war, arrived with the
new Governor. One of the first acts of this gentleman was to sell our boat, which was moored
at the back of Government-house. This proceeding looked to my mind indicative of ill-will;
and, fearful lest the Governor should deliver us again into bondage, I resolved to make my
escape from the place. Having communicated my plans to Barker, Lesly, Riley, Shiers, and Russen,
I offered the Governor to get built for him a handsome whale-boat, making the iron work myself.
The Governor consented, and in a little more than a fortnight we had completed a four-oared
whale-boat, capable of weathering either sea or storm. We fitted her with sails and provisions
in the Governor's name, and on the 4th of July, being a Saturday night, we took our departure
from Valdivia, dropping down the river shortly after sunset. Whether the Governor, disgusted
at the trick we had played him, decided not to pursue us, or whether--as I rather think--our
absence was not discovered until the Monday morning, when we were beyond reach of capture,
I know not, but we got out to sea without hazard, and, taking accurate bearings, ran for the
Friendly Islands, as had been agreed upon amongst us.

"But it now seemed that the good fortune which had hitherto attended us had deserted us, for
after crawling for four days in sultry weather, there fell a dead calm, and we lay like a log
upon the sea for forty-eight hours. For three days we remained in the midst of the ocean, exposed
to the burning rays of the sun, in a boat without water or provisions. On the fourth day, just
as we had resolved to draw lots to determine who should die for the sustenance of the others,
we were picked up by an opium clipper returning to Canton. The captain, an American, was most
kind to us, and on our arrival at Canton, a subscription was got up for us by the British merchants
of that city, and a free passage to England obtained for us. Russen, however, getting in drink,
made statements which brought suspicion upon us. I had imposed upon the Consul with a fictitious
story of a wreck, but had stated that my name was Wilson, forgetting that the sextant which
had been preserved in the boat had Captain Bates's name engraved upon it. These circumstances
together caused sufficient doubts in the Consul's mind to cause him to give directions that,
on our arrival in London, we were to be brought before the Thames Police Court. There being
no evidence against us, we should have escaped, had not a Dr. Pine, who had been surgeon on
board the Malabar transport, being in the Court, recognized me and swore to my identity. We
were remanded, and, to complete the chain of evidence, Mr. Capon, the Hobart Town gaoler, was,
strangely enough, in London at the time, and identified us all. Our story was then made public,
and Barker and Lesly, turning Queen's evidence against Russen, he was convicted of the murder
of Lyons, and executed. We were then placed on board the Leviathan hulk, and remained there
until shipped in the Lady Jane, which was chartered, with convicts, for Van Diemen's Land,
in order to be tried in the colony, where the offence was committed, for piratically seizing
the brig Osprey, and arrived here on the 15th December, 1838."

          *          *          *          *          *

Coming, breathless, to the conclusion of this wonderful relation, Sylvia suffered her hand
to fall into her lap, and sat meditative. The history of this desperate struggle for liberty
was to her full of vague horror. She had never before realized among what manner of men she
had lived. The sullen creatures who worked in the chain-gangs, or pulled in the boats--their
faces brutalized into a uniform blankness--must be very different men from John Rex and his
companions. Her imagination pictured the voyage in the leaky brig, the South American slavery,
the midnight escape, the desperate rowing, the long, slow agony of starvation, and the heart-sickness
that must have followed upon recapture and imprisonment. Surely the punishment of "penal servitude"
must have been made very terrible for men to dare such hideous perils to escape from it. Surely
John Rex, the convict, who, alone, and prostrated by sickness, quelled a mutiny and navigated
a vessel through a storm-ravaged ocean, must possess qualities which could be put to better
use than stone-quarrying. Was the opinion of Maurice Frere the correct one after all, and were
these convict monsters gifted with unnatural powers of endurance, only to be subdued and tamed
by unnatural and inhuman punishments of lash and chain? Her fancies growing amid the fast gathering
gloom, she shuddered as she guessed to what extremities of evil might such men proceed did
an opportunity ever come to them to retaliate upon their gaolers. Perhaps beneath each mask
of servility and sullen fear that was the ordinary prison face, lay hid a courage and a despair
as mighty as that which sustained those ten poor wanderers over the Pacific Ocean. Maurice
had told her that these people had their secret signs, their secret language. She had just
seen a specimen of the skill with which this very Rex--still bent upon escape--could send a
hidden message to his friends beneath the eyes of his gaolers. What if the whole island was
but one smouldering volcano of revolt and murder--the whole convict population but one incarnated
conspiracy, bound together by crime and suffering! Terrible to think of--yet not impossible.

Oh, how strangely must the world have been civilized, that this most lovely corner of it must
needs be set apart as a place of banishment for the monsters that civilization had brought
forth and bred! She cast her eyes around, and all beauty seemed blotted out from the scene
before her. The graceful foliage melting into indistinctness in the gathering twilight, appeared
to her horrible and treacherous. The river seemed to flow sluggishly, as though thickened with
blood and tears. The shadow of the trees seemed to hold lurking shapes of cruelty and danger.
Even the whispering breeze bore with it sighs, and threats, and mutterings of revenge. Oppressed
by a terror of loneliness, she hastily caught up the manuscript, and turned to seek the house,
when, as if summoned from the earth by the power of her own fears, a ragged figure barred her
passage.

To the excited girl this apparition seemed the embodiment of the unknown evil she had dreaded.
She recognized the yellow clothing, and marked the eager hands outstretched to seize her. Instantly
upon her flashed the story that three days since had set the prison-town agog. The desperado
of Port Arthur, the escaped mutineer and murderer, was before her, with unchained arms, free
to wreak his will of her.

"Sylvia! It is you! Oh, at last! I have escaped, and come to ask--What? Do you not know me?"

Pressing both hands to her bosom, she stepped back a pace, speechless with terror.

"I am Rufus Dawes," he said, looking in her face for the grateful smile of recognition that
did not come--"Rufus Dawes."

The party at the house had finished their wine, and, sitting on the broad verandah, were listening
to some gentle dullness of the clergyman, when there broke upon their ears a cry.

"What's that?" said Vickers.

Frere sprang up, and looked down the garden. He saw two figures that seemed to struggle together.
One glance was enough, and, with a shout, he leapt the flower-beds, and made straight at the
escaped prisoner.

Rufus Dawes saw him coming, but, secure in the protection of the girl who owed to him so much,
he advanced a step nearer, and loosing his respectful clasp of her hand, caught her dress.

"Oh, help, Maurice, help!" cried Sylvia again.

Into the face of Rufus Dawes came an expression of horror-stricken bewilderment. For three
days the unhappy man had contrived to keep life and freedom, in order to get speech with the
one being who, he thought, cherished for him some affection. Having made an unparalleled escape
from the midst of his warders, he had crept to the place where lived the idol of his dreams,
braving recapture, that he might hear from her two words of justice and gratitude. Not only
did she refuse to listen to him, and shrink from him as from one accursed, but, at the sound
of his name, she summoned his deadliest foe to capture him. Such monstrous ingratitude was
almost beyond belief. She, too,--the child he had nursed and fed, the child for whom he had
given up his hard-earned chance of freedom and fortune, the child of whom he had dreamed, the
child whose image he had worshipped--she, too, against him! Then there was no justice, no Heaven,
no God! He loosed his hold of her dress, and, regardless of the approaching footsteps, stood
speechless, shaking from head to foot. In another instant Frere and McNab flung themselves
upon him, and he was borne to the ground. Though weakened by starvation, he shook them off
with scarce an effort, and, despite the servants who came hurrying from the alarmed house,
might even then have turned and made good his escape. But he seemed unable to fly. His chest
heaved convulsively, great drops of sweat beaded his white face, and from his eyes tears seemed
about to break. For an instant his features worked convulsively, as if he would fain invoke
upon the girl, weeping on her father's shoulder, some hideous curse. But no words came--only
thrusting his hand into his breast, with a supreme gesture of horror and aversion, he flung
something from him. Then a profound sigh escaped him, and he held out his hands to be bound.

There was something so pitiable about this silent grief that, as they led him away, the little
group instinctively averted their faces, lest they should seem to triumph over him.

CHAPTER XI. A RELIC OF MACQUARIE HARBOUR.

"You must try and save him from further punishment," said Sylvia next day to Frere. "I did
not mean to betray the poor creature, but I had made myself nervous by reading that convict's
story."

"You shouldn't read such rubbish," said Frere. "What's the use? I don't suppose a word of it's
true."

"It must be true. I am sure it's true. Oh, Maurice, these are dreadful men. I thought I knew
all about convicts, but I had no idea that such men as these were among them."

"Thank God, you know very little," said Maurice. "The servants you have here are very different
sort of fellows from Rex and Company."

"Oh, Maurice, I am so tired of this place. It's wrong, perhaps, with poor papa and all, but
I do wish I was somewhere out of the sight of chains. I don't know what has made me feel as I do."

"Come to Sydney," said Frere. "There are not so many convicts there. It was arranged that we
should go to Sydney, you know."

"For our honeymoon? Yes," said Sylvia, simply. "I know it was. But we are not married yet."

"That's easily done," said Maurice.

"Oh, nonsense, sir! But I want to speak to you about this poor Dawes. I don't think he meant
any harm. It seems to me now that he was rather going to ask for food or something, only I
was so nervous. They won't hang him, Maurice, will they?"

"No," said Maurice. "I spoke to your father this morning. If the fellow is tried for his life,
you may have to give evidence, and so we came to the conclusion that Port Arthur again, and
heavy irons, will meet the case. We gave him another life sentence this morning. That will
make the third he has had."

"What did he say?"

"Nothing. I sent him down aboard the schooner at once. He ought to be out of the river by this
time." "Maurice, I have a strange feeling about that man."

"Eh?" said Maurice.

"I seem to fear him, as if I knew some story about him, and yet didn't know it."

"That's not very clear," said Maurice, forcing a laugh, "but don't let's talk about him any
more. We'll soon be far from Port Arthur and everybody in it."

"Maurice," said she, caressingly, "I love you, dear. You'll always protect me against these
men, won't you?"

Maurice kissed her. "You have not got over your fright, Sylvia," he said. "I see I shall have
to take a great deal of care of my wife."

"Of course," replied Sylvia.

And then the pair began to make love, or, rather, Maurice made it, and Sylvia suffered him.

Suddenly her eye caught something. "What's that--there, on the ground by the fountain?" They
were near the spot where Dawes had been seized the night before. A little stream ran through
the garden, and a Triton--of convict manufacture--blew his horn in the middle of a--convict
built--rockery. Under the lip of the fountain lay a small packet. Frere picked it up. It was
made of soiled yellow cloth, and stitched evidently by a man's fingers. "It looks like a needle-case,"
said he.

"Let me see. What a strange-looking thing! Yellow cloth, too. Why, it must belong to a prisoner.
Oh, Maurice, the man who was here last night!"

"Ay," says Maurice, turning over the packet, "it might have been his, sure enough."

"He seemed to fling something from him, I thought. Perhaps this is it!" said she, peering over
his arm, in delicate curiosity. Frere, with something of a scowl on his brow, tore off the
outer covering of the mysterious packet, and displayed a second envelope, of grey cloth--the
"good-conduct" uniform. Beneath this was a piece, some three inches square, of stained and
discoloured merino, that had once been blue.

"Hullo!" says Frere. "Why, what's this?"

"It is a piece of a dress," says Sylvia.

It was Rufus Dawes's talisman--a portion of the frock she had worn at Macquarie Harbour, and
which the unhappy convict had cherished as a sacred relic for five weary years.

Frere flung it into the water. The running stream whirled it away. "Why did you do that?" cried
the girl, with a sudden pang of remorse for which she could not account. The shred of cloth,
caught by a weed, lingered for an instant on the surface of the water. Almost at the same moment,
the pair, raising their eyes, saw the schooner which bore Rufus Dawes back to bondage glide
past the opening of the trees and disappear. When they looked again for the strange relic of
the desperado of Port Arthur, it also had vanished.

CHAPTER XII. AT PORT ARTHUR.

The usual clanking and hammering was prevalent upon the stone jetty of Port Arthur when the
schooner bearing the returned convict, Rufus Dawes, ran alongside. On the heights above the
esplanade rose the grim front of the soldiers' barracks; beneath the soldiers' barracks was
the long range of prison buildings with their workshops and tan-pits; to the left lay the Commandant's
house, authoritative by reason of its embrasured terrace and guardian sentry; while the jetty,
that faced the purple length of the "Island of the Dead," swarmed with parti-coloured figures,
clanking about their enforced business, under the muskets of their gaolers.

Rufus Dawes had seen this prospect before, had learnt by heart each beauty of rising sun, sparkling
water, and wooded hill. From the hideously clean jetty at his feet, to the distant signal station,
that, embowered in bloom, reared its slender arms upwards into the cloudless sky, he knew it
all. There was no charm for him in the exquisite blue of the sea, the soft shadows of the hills,
or the soothing ripple of the waves that crept voluptuously to the white breast of the shining
shore. He sat with his head bowed down, and his hands clasped about his knees, disdaining to
look until they roused him.

"Hallo, Dawes!" says Warder Troke, halting his train of ironed yellow-jackets. "So you've come
back again! Glad to see yer, Dawes! It seems an age since we had the pleasure of your company,
Dawes!" At this pleasantry the train laughed, so that their irons clanked more than ever. They
found it often inconvenient not to laugh at Mr. Troke's humour. "Step down here, Dawes, and
let me introduce you to your h'old friends. They'll be glad to see yer, won't yer, boys? Why,
bless me, Dawes, we thort we'd lost yer! We thort yer'd given us the slip altogether, Dawes.
They didn't take care of yer in Hobart Town, I expect, eh, boys? We'll look after yer here,
Dawes, though. You won't bolt any more."

"Take care, Mr. Troke," said a warning voice, "you're at it again! Let the man alone!"

By virtue of an order transmitted from Hobart Town, they had begun to attach the dangerous
prisoner to the last man of the gang, riveting the leg-irons of the pair by means of an extra
link, which could be removed when necessary, but Dawes had given no sign of consciousness.
At the sound of the friendly tones, however, he looked up, and saw a tall, gaunt man, dressed
in a shabby pepper-and-salt raiment, and wearing a black handkerchief knotted round his throat.
He was a stranger to him.

"I beg yer pardon, Mr. North," said Troke, sinking at once the bully in the sneak. "I didn't
see yer reverence."

"A parson!" thought Dawes with disappointment, and dropped his eyes.

"I know that," returned Mr. North, coolly. "If you had, you would have been all butter and
honey. Don't trouble yourself to tell a lie; it's quite unnecessary."

Dawes looked up again. This was a strange parson.

"What's your name, my man?" said Mr. North, suddenly, catching his eye.

Rufus Dawes had intended to scowl, but the tone, sharply authoritative, roused his automatic
convict second nature, and he answered, almost despite himself, "Rufus Dawes."

"Oh," said Mr. North, eyeing him with a curious air of expectation that had something pitying
in it. "This is the man, is it? I thought he was to go to the Coal Mines."

"So he is," said Troke, "but we hain't a goin' to send there for a fortnit, and in the meantime
I'm to work him on the chain."

"Oh!" said Mr. North again. "Lend me your knife, Troke."

And then, before them all, this curious parson took a piece of tobacco out of his ragged pocket,
and cut off a "chaw" with Mr. Troke's knife. Rufus Dawes felt what he had not felt for three
days--an interest in something. He stared at the parson in unaffected astonishment. Mr. North
perhaps mistook the meaning of his fixed stare, for he held out the remnant of tobacco to him.

The chain line vibrated at this, and bent forward to enjoy the vicarious delight of seeing
another man chew tobacco. Troke grinned with a silent mirth that betokened retribution for
the favoured convict. "Here," said Mr. North, holding out the dainty morsel upon which so many
eyes were fixed. Rufus Dawes took the tobacco; looked at it hungrily for an instant, and then--to
the astonishment of everybody--flung it away with a curse.

"I don't want your tobacco," he said; "keep it."

From convict mouths went out a respectful roar of amazement, and Mr. Troke's eyes snapped with
pride of outraged janitorship. "You ungrateful dog!" he cried, raising his stick.

Mr. North put up a hand. "That will do, Troke," he said; "I know your respect for the cloth.
Move the men on again."

"Get on!" said Troke, rumbling oaths beneath his breath, and Dawes felt his newly-riveted chain
tug. It was some time since he had been in a chain-gang, and the sudden jerk nearly overbalanced
him. He caught at his neighbour, and looking up, met a pair of black eyes which gleamed recognition. And despite its weakness, he could not resist
the second glance, the pair coercive pleading of his friend. He drank the gall until stool,
and looked after treading recklessly Weasel cabbage and corn.

- Wait, Anita, who accompanied her - whispering -.

Wait a minute ... may occur to you something.

Ana shrugged his shoulders, and shortened the passage to allow them to unite Borren. Matched
and walked in silence along the road; Ana lipped and some chills
and shivering, despite being extremely wrapped in the shawl.

Upon reaching the entrance of the city, the cigarette was measured again and to do so with contemptuous
look from head to toe.

- Do you think of anything? - Asked him half
faded yet, with hoarseness that bordered in aphonia.

- Nothing -
she answered sharply.

And then on the Delete setting bright eyes green -: Don Henry - he said - do you know what you
been thinking?

- Say you ....

- That you are a gem.

- Why did you say that, beautiful Anita? - Spoke amiably and Clear, which when viewed from people
and busy streets had regained their poise.

- Because ... one to leave when sick .... But you! But what men! - Articulated with anger -.
If if were to end the caste ... never missed so much!

Well, Abur ... I'm half bit upset and gives me pleasure to see people.

- I'll go with you if ....

- Do you? - She murmured ironic and dismissive -. Why?

Abur, Abur, if you see a girl in my class!

Abur.

And Weasel ran down an alley, leaving Borren without knowing what was wrong.

When Baltasar and she were alone, the evening fell, not like that peaceful and glacial February,
but warm, lazy to say goodbye to the sun, gray clouds piled heavy cirrus in the sky, the sea, and
chopped green, roared in the distance, and a strip of fringed the
Topaz horizon on the part of the West.

Amparo had a moment of fear.

- I'm going to my house - he said, rising.

- Amparo ... not now - delivered with inflection pleading Baltasar -. Do not go away, we're in
paradise.

La Tribuna, paralyzed, looked around.

Petty was paradise indeed.

A box of cabbage, another of onions, strawberry powdery, trodden by the feet of the world, the
elms low and stocky, the acirates full of white thorn, sad well with
grating pulley, but there were young and love to embellish so poor
Eden.

The girl smiled Baltasar posing softly in their bulging black eyes.

-
Why do you want to get away, we? - Questioned him with gentle authority
-.

If you run away forever Me, if I think you fear, there is nothing particular that I go also to walk,
or where I can think of.

You know .-- And he came closer to her, burning her face with her
panting breathing -: Am I going to ride? - asked.

Amparo gave a nod that it could be translated as follows: - Do not
leave you in no mode.

- You treat me so bad ....

- What do you want
me to do?

- That you behave better ....

- Well, let's be clear -
she exclaimed, shaking his slump and building on the edge of the well.

The red light of sunset then wrapped, his face lit up like an ember,
and a second Baltasar once seemed made of fire.

- Di, beautiful ....

-
You ... want to commit ... want to behave like others behave with
girls my area.

- Certainly not, daughter, where does it infer?

Do not think so badly of me.

- You see I know very well what goes on in the world ... a lot of
talk, and talk, but after ....

Baltasar hand picked strawberries
that transcended.

- My honor, Don Balthazar, is like anyone you know?

I am a daughter of the people, but I have my pride ... for the same
.... So ... and can you understand me.

The society opposes to you to give me husband's hand.

- Why? - Savvy ruler asked the officer.

- Why? - Repeated the vanity in the depths of the soul of the Tribune.

-
I would not be the first nor the second, to marry .... No school today
....

- What about your family ... his family ... do you think does
not disdain a daughter of the people?

- Bah ... What does it matter?

My family is one thing, I'm the other - Balthasar replied impatiently.

- Promise me you marry me?

"- Murmured she simpleton of politics.

- Yes, my darling! - Said
he almost without noticing what was asked, it was determined to say
amen to everything.

But Amparo back.

- No, no! - Stammered, trembling and frightened -.

Not enough to talk like this ... "I swear it you?

Baltasar was young and had no seductive temple of trade. He hesitated, but was driven by a moment:
to strengthen the voice coughed and heaved a:

- I swear.

There was a moment of silence in which only sound was the thin air
whistling over the tops the elms of the road and the distant wail
of the sea.

- Why the soul of his mother?, Why your eternal damnation?

Baltasar, with choked voice, articulated perjury.

- In front of the
face of God? - Continued Amparo anxious.

Baltasar again hesitated a minute. It was solid and fervent believer as Amparo, but neither convinced
atheist, and slight tremor shook his lips to utter the horrible blasphemy. A heavy head, covered
with copious hair curl, and rested on his chest, and balsamic snuff smell that permeated the Tribune
enveloped him. And reiterated his scruples Disipáronse oaths and the most solemn promises.

He was running to close the night and fourth of loving like a scimitar moon pierced through silver
the accumulated clouds. On the road, silent and gloomy, not passing anyone.

-XXXII-

The Tribune is forged illusions

In the early days, Baltasar, intoxicated by the aroma of the cigar, was a regular, missed his
usual reserve and acted as if he feared the world view or his family. It is true in the neighborhood
lived Amparo section where it was not easy being seen people in their dealings; however, known
ever encountered on the occasion of going to accompany the girl. Was for this reason or other,
soon find most remote places for interviews, where everyone was on their side, not meeting
up to be sheltered from prying eyes. One of these sites was a kind of diner attached to a gas
plant, drink too favorite of the cigar. Given the rough stone table, gnawed by the weather,
sat Baltasar and Amparo, and there they brought bottles of beer, soda, whose cheerful pop encouraged
from time to time the dialogue. A thick vine was providing shade, a few chickens pecking at
pictures of a garden mean, the place was silent, like a cabinet sunny, but hidden. Through the
leaves of vines filtered sunlight, and fell sometimes in drops of light moving on the face of
Amparo, while Baltasar watched, involuntarily admiring certain graces and perfections of his face
made to be seen closely, as the delicate network of veins that darken their eyelids, the intricacies
of tiny ear, the clarity of brown complexion, where the light is lost in half-tones of honey
the warm rich youth of color, the whiteness of teeth, abundant hair. This detailed inventory
lasted some time, after which, Baltasar, having learned memory these and other features, and
talked with the Tribune of everything that could be talk to her,
began to find the hours longer.

Restricted visits to the picnic area limiting them to the holidays, and while he Amparo handmade
cigarettes I used to eat, he read, just finished pulling the clouds of cigarette smoke. Not
knowing Why do Amparo wanted to teach how to smoke, to which she was provided with disgust,
claiming that no cigarette smoke, which happen to be "tired of seeing snuff", and that was only
good to put patches on the temples where a headache. Flowing media to entertain, Baltasar Amparo
brought a novel to read it aloud, but it was so easy to mourn the cigarette so that the heroes
were dying of love or of another disease like that which convinced the boy that was put silly,
removed the books. In sum, Baltasar and Amparo as two bodies were found together an instant
affinity for loving then separated by repulsions invincible, and tended constantly to leave each by
his side.

To add insult to boredom, Baltasar noticed that, while he sought to hide neatly his adventure,
Amparo, which had placed all their hope in false words and commitment
created by the youth, she dedicated her existence because they saw
together, because advertising drive the point home that set him for
ever imagined.

I wanted to display it, like Anna merchant captain bore; wanted Sobrado family knew what was happening
and anger and that of Garcia, the proud young lady, also found out that the left by Baltasar
Tribune, as well as it sounds. And ships burned to make noise Amparo suit him well Baltasar as silent.
In this different mood the first born disputes, even minor, short of the two lovers, fights
that initially served as a fun Baltasar, because sometimes, to the disappointment distracts.
At least while they lasted, no came the unwelcome yawn to dislocate the jaw. Worse would be to talk
politics, talk Balthasar had forbidden and that the Tribune was manifested more fond of some time
now.

It was not entirely systematic behavior of Amparo to seek publicity in their affairs, their character
drove her to it. Superficial and vehement, gustábanle appearances and externals; the walk in
tongues and flattered to be envied, never pitied. The day she gave her earrings Gold for Rita,
stayed home not a farthing, and childish proudly told everyone that I had money, amenguando
well the value of your noble trait. Now, in its relations with Balthazar, worked harder than
ever and dressed their best, to believe that the gentleman Sobrado was generous with it. Inwardly
rejoiced that would support its agile fingers, while the neighborhood envied him not receiving
largesse beyond that, it would refuse to contempt if they are offered.

His vanity was twofold: he wanted the public had to Baltasar liberal, and Baltasar not had
it for mercenary. And Balthazar, if he paid the gas, the cakes, once the theater tickets,
as other worthy heir showed and successor Andez Dolores de Sobrado. Never thought of or never wanted
to think (that even it's thinking about something is usually determined by the freely) as eat that
good-looking, whether it would be stock or cornbread, if you drink clear water, and how they compose
for always submitted to it with crisp starched petticoat, a cotton robe jumping clean Rusel boots
fine, new silk handkerchief. The cigar was aromatic and select: what the smoker matter how
prepared?

Meanwhile, Amparo enjoyed watching the anger of his rivals in the factory, the smirk Ana, hints,
nudges, the atmosphere of curiosity that condensed around of his person, leading to both their
faintness, which made themselves very mysterious gift people into believing they came from Sobrado,
was lit in the chest bouquets of flowers, and until he acquired a
silver ring with a heart of blue enamel on the retegustazo they thought
they were Baltasar fineness.

When asked if it was true that married a gentleman, smiling, became angry as the joke, and pretended
to look furtively the ring .... Marry! And why not? Were we not all equal in the revolution here?
Did not was sovereign people? And the egalitarian ideas were returning in droves to dominate
and flatter their wishes. For if he had made the revolution and the Northern Union, and all, would
be for we had equal, if not, things may well remain as they were .... The trouble was he commands the
Italian king, that Macarronini, which looked at first freedom .... But would fall, and no doubt,
came the republic.

With these thoughts I entertained the hours of work in the factory. Each cigarette that rolled,
the soft rustle of paper, a naive hope in his heart arose. When she was lady was not to behave
like other arrogant, they were there rolling cigars as well as it,
and now, because trailing silk top of the shoulder looked at by his
friends from yesterday.

Quia! Greet her on the street when he saw with utmost kindness. With regard to receive Business
... So, as and as her husband becomes available, but what work does a greeting? Ana had to teach
his home. Your home! A house like Sobrado, with stalls crimson damask, console, mahogany, gilt-framed
mirror, piano, desk clock and many lighted candles! And Amparo, closing her eyes, she thought
she felt in the face of the cold north wind Twelfth Night .... When I walked barefoot in the
doorway of Sobrado to sing Christmas carols "Never thought of it falling in love Balthazar? For
as this had happened, the other ....

However, within the factory itself was skeptical that augured ill of the entanglements he was getting
into Amparo. Marry, marry!

Soon it says, but easier said than done .... "Gifts? Go a few gifts for a child to spare! Silver
Rings, branches of two rooms! Bah! bah! It was known as things stood. Although deaf, these rumors
were not as concealed them from reaching the woman concerned, and together with other little things
that she observed also began to stab him in the soul of the most cruel dart misgivings. Baltasar
cooled visibly: at each step was more cautious, more precautions adopted, discovered more proactive
nature and interest to conceal their dealings with the girl as a
hidden disease humiliating.

Still showed himself tender and passionate in the interviews, but stubbornly refused to accompany
Amparo two steps beyond the door.

All of the above, noted from his bed the paralytic, and found ourselves very restless and complaining,
for several reasons, among others, because since winning in Amparo spent as new boots and
embroidered petticoats, she was deprived of certain comforts and treats that do not spared before.
Trouble was that his daughter is lost and bad also that dealing with gentlemen, instead of bring
money home, they insist, and had to spend the evening doing custom cigarettes to eat. And a lot
of flowers! And much of camisole with lace! What need!

Confident of these lamentations was Chinto, who used to come to spend the long crippled hours
after work, since I knew how conducive is show time to claim marriage. Yet again the old to
the load from time to time, and spoke of her daughter Chinto; he would be fine and handsome,
but he was a workhorse, a wolf and an unhappy work. Authorized, no doubt, as good intentions, which
paralyzed Chinto available for a son.

Once, when money became scarce, Rogol "it was for six quarters sugar for the scale to the corner store,
which would pay him. " The waiter came and went with a brown paper cone filled with brown sugar,
the payment is not more talk. Another day taking care of a ticket for the next drawing, the old,
for a clear conscience of inveterate gambler, he said that if "fell" be leaving as friends.
Gradually, and helping the very distracted this Amparo walked, back to tie the old Chinto yoke, to blindly
obey the voice of the cripple despotic, made him an errand, he managed
the fourth, brought cures, given ointments.

And this does not mean that the poor woman set out deliberately to
exploit the young man, but at his age and status, some care and mimes
are just as necessary as breathing air.

Indeed the curious spectacle offered Chinto, colorless, thin, almost
ragged, caring the woman who was not his mother, who had always treated
harshly, and while he Peel the potatoes for the soup the next day,
or mulli the pallet of the barred, Amparo back, the silvery moonlight
of summer, which dragged on Highway Olmeda the shadow of the majestic
trees, an appointment in secret places, in the lonely orchards, or
in the desert Aguasanta Hill Road.

-XXXIII-

Leaves fall

It happened,
when approaching the fall, called paralytic at the head Amparo from
his bed, unusual tone and gestures, whispering hoarsely:

- Come here,
come on.

Amparo came up with his head down.

The mother reached out, grabbed his chin violently for to pick up
the face, and yelled terrible high-pitched voice:

- What now?

Silent daughter. Constábale that questioned the person who had lived many years and proud of wedlock,
his honesty commoner, her husband's work, that in Ing patterns to both of the factory by model
family together, that on one occasion the chief had uttered words honorable for her, calling women
"formal and well." Yes, Amparo knew, and so silent. Paralytic repeatedly gave him advice, with
disastrous predictions have been fulfilled at last.

Built half on the bed, concentrating on eyes furious life of his
body, he repeated the mother, with scorn and anger:

- What now?

Amparo remained pale and motionless.

The crippled felt a tingling in the palm of your hand and stamped loudly on the cheek of her
daughter, who stumbled, fell hiding face, and went to sit on the nearest chair.

- Dishonest, threadbare, that not aprendistes me! - Shouted the sick, some well off and after the
slap.

She said nothing, which would then willingly popularity, and until
the advent of the ideal republic, for being seven feet into the ground.

However, stoically sipped scalding tears in their eyes sticking out,
and, dispirited, recognizing and abiding by maternal authority, stammered:

-
I have become engaged.

- And I believed!

- Do not know why it said
the girl ...-- stronger accent and -.

I am like others, so good as more ... Today we are not at times be uneven men ... today we are
all about, ma'am ... are over these tyrannies.

Paralytic shook his head, with the persistent mistrust of the old homeless than ever rain from
the sky were grilled bacon.

- The poor are poor - spoke wistfully ...--. You will stay poor, and Master you will laugh
...-- And this idea, feeling his anger cried reborn -: Sácateme front,
indina, I'll kill you: if you were words that you comply.

Ducked under, and came trembling.

Alone, recovered energy, calculated that by the wrong in despair, perhaps his bad luck would
be a tie that had just joined Baltasar with her forever. Yes, it could not happen otherwise,
unless the tiger had guts.

He waited eagerly on Sunday, the day of appointment at the gas picnic. Rose early, went much
before Baltasar.

The fall was stripping the vines of his pompous cut foliage, and gnarled branches seemed evil skeleton
arms wrapped in shreds of purple the few remaining leaves. Some cluster black top. In some old tubs
Arrimadas the stone bench was empty bottles that looked like beached shipwrecks a sandbank.
Amparo Baltasar felt very cold when he arrived.

He sat beside the girl, who presented a package of his favorite cigarettes, grout, rather long,
bundled with great care. Baltasar took one and lit it, sucking Quick nervously aspirations.
Every woman in love with a man comes to know by its slightest movements, by the acts distracted
and almost mechanically executed, the mood that is. Baltasar Amparo knew that when smoked and
are not distinguished by the ludicrous and affable. As the sun was not seep into obstacles
through the leafless vine, the young man's face, bathed in light, it seemed hard and angular,
his mustache, blond in the shade, now had a metallic gold, her blue eyes looked with glacial
clarity. Poor Tribune, so fearless when held forth, was found at all cut and suspicious, and believed
felt that the throat with a knotted rope. He waited in vain for an expansion, a caress sweet,
passionate, not wine. Baltasar shut up very good things, and kept silent. From time to time the
breath of autumn gave off a burst of the rearward sheets vine, which hung wrinkled and yellowish
on the granite table, between two lovers, producing dry a little noise. Pin! Baltasar's ears rang
the voice of Dona Dolores, exclaiming: "" Boy do not you know that
Garcia ... Marvel!, Won the lawsuit in the Supreme?

I know it fixed by the same lawyer here. " Pin, pin! And Amparo, in turn, heard angry words:
"If gave you words that you fulfill them. " Pinnn! ... A purple leaf slow down .... "Baltasarito
Jr. percent will be caught and do not know how many thousands of dollars, if they win."

Finally, Baltasar was the first to break the silence .... He spoke of the work that cost him
come, how necessary it was modesty, that should be less .... Saying this hard accent, as if Amparo
he was guilty about something. The cigarette was listening move, with white lips, staring into
the face of Balthasar, who was the expression distracted from the bad payer who does not want to
remember their debt. And it was the worst case, for more than the Tribune wanted to draw on his
oratory, he would have been Pearl at the time, phrases was not that
begin to address the most important issue.

At last, as he saw Baltasar up in amazement, saying that he expected the colonel to service matters,
She also won resolved, and gave him the news and brutally clear, unambiguous and rodeos, feeling in
the chest boiling anger in his natural than a hundredfold.

A flash of surprise crossed by pupils of Sobrado transparent and stiff,
but the point folded his thin mouth, and say that he had closed his
face with double key selládolo with seven seals.

It was another than the lad Baltasar funny, flattering, and the feline
summer hours.

Amparo noticed that represented ten years.

- Today - said, standing before him - it's just that I meet the word.

- Now ...-- repeated, his voice slow -.

The word ....

- From marry me! I think I on the right to ask ....

- Women ...-- Baltasar said quietly, shaking his cigarette ash - not all leave things as desire.
Circumstances force him to one thousand transactions, which .... I wish, just like you, it was
morning, but put yourself in my case .... My mother ... my father
... my family ....

- Your family, your family!

Did not she was told one thing and you another? Did I miss any stain
your family, just in case? "I am the daughter of some executed, or
some captain of gang? Are not we in times of equality? Is not my mother
as honest as yours, repels?

- Not that ... I do not say that ....

-
For what you say then that you stand there silent? Got something to
reproach me? Did not I earned my living by working honestly, not ask
you this to you or anyone else? Did I order something, I asked you
something? Ando "I with others?

- How do you know such a thing?

"And let us hope poor Mr. North will succeed in his labour of love," said Meekin, shutting
the little gate, "and save the unfortunate Kirkland. Good-night, once more."

Captain Burgess was shutting his verandah-window when North hurried up.

"Captain Burgess, Macklewain tells me you are going to flog Kirkland."

"Well, sir, what of that?" said Burgess.

"I have come to beg you not to do so, sir. The lad has been cruelly punished already. He attempted
suicide to-day--unhappy creature."

"Well, that's just what I'm flogging him for. I'll teach my prisoners to attempt suicide!"

"But he can't stand it, sir. He's too weak."

"That's Macklewain's business."

"Captain Burgess," protested North, "I assure you that he does not deserve punishment. I have
seen him, and his condition of mind is pitiable."

"Look here, Mr. North, I don't interfere with what you do to the prisoner's souls; don't you
interfere with what I do to their bodies."

"Captain Burgess, you have no right to mock at my office."

"Then don't you interfere with me, sir."

"Do you persist in having this boy flogged?"

"I've given my orders, sir."

"Then, Captain Burgess," cried North, his pale face flushing, "I tell you the boy's blood will
be on your head. I am a minister of God, sir, and I forbid you to commit this crime."

"Damn your impertinence, sir!" burst out Burgess. "You're a dismissed officer of the Government,
sir. You've no authority here in any way; and, by God, sir, if you interfere with my discipline,
sir, I'll have you put in irons until you're shipped out of the island."

This, of course, was mere bravado on the part of the Commandant. North knew well that he would
never dare to attempt any such act of violence, but the insult stung him like the cut of a
whip. He made a stride towards the Commandant, as though to seize him by the throat, but, checking
himself in time, stood still, with clenched hands, flashing eyes, and beard that bristled.

The two men looked at each other, and presently Burgess's eyes fell before those of the chaplain.

"Miserable blasphemer," says North, "I tell you that you shall not flog the boy."

Burgess, white with rage, rang the bell that summoned his convict servant.

"Show Mr. North out," he said, "and go down to the Barracks, and tell Troke that Kirkland is
to have a hundred lashes to-morrow. I'll show you who's master here, my good sir."

"I'll report this to the Government," said North, aghast. "This is murderous."

"The Government may go to----, and you, too!" roared Burgess. "Get out!" And God's viceregent
at Port Arthur slammed the door.

North returned home in great agitation. "They shall not flog that boy," he said. "I'll shield
him with my own body if necessary. I'll report this to the Government. I'll see Sir John Franklin
myself. I'll have the light of day let into this den of horrors." He reached his cottage, and
lighted the lamp in the little sitting-room. All was silent, save that from the adjoining chamber
came the sound of Meekin's gentlemanly snore. North took down a book from the shelf and tried
to read, but the letters ran together. "I wish I hadn't taken that brandy," he said. "Fool
that I am."

Then he began to walk up and down, to fling himself on the sofa, to read, to pray. "Oh, God,
give me strength! Aid me! Help me! I struggle, but I am weak. O, Lord, look down upon me!"

To see him rolling on the sofa in agony, to see his white face, his parched lips, and his contracted
brow, to hear his moans and muttered prayers, one would have thought him suffering from the
pangs of some terrible disease. He opened the book again, and forced himself to read, but his
eyes wandered to the cupboard. There lurked something that fascinated him. He got up at length,
went into the kitchen, and found a packet of red pepper. He mixed a teaspoonful of this in
a pannikin of water and drank it. It relieved him for a while.

"I must keep my wits for to-morrow. The life of that lad depends upon it. Meekin, too, will
suspect. I will lie down."

He went into his bedroom and flung himself on the bed, but only to toss from side to side.
In vain he repeated texts of Scripture and scraps of verse; in vain counted imaginary sheep,
or listened to imaginary clock-tickings. Sleep would not come to him. It was as though he had
reached the crisis of a disease which had been for days gathering force. "I must have a teaspoonful,"
he said, "to allay the craving."

Twice he paused on the way to the sitting-room, and twice was he driven on by a power stronger
than his will. He reached it at length, and opening the cupboard, pulled out what he sought.
A bottle of brandy. With this in his hand, all moderation vanished. He raised it to his lips
and eagerly drank. Then, ashamed of what he had done, he thrust the bottle back, and made for
his room. Still he could not sleep. The taste of the liquor maddened him for more. He saw in
the darkness the brandy bottle--vulgar and terrible apparition! He saw its amber fluid sparkle.
He heard it gurgle as he poured it out. He smelt the nutty aroma of the spirit. He pictured
it standing in the corner of the cupboard, and imagined himself seizing it and quenching the
fire that burned within him. He wept, he prayed, he fought with his desire as with a madness.
He told himself that another's life depended on his exertions, that to give way to his fatal
passion was unworthy of an educated man and a reasoning being, that it was degrading, disgusting,
and bestial. That, at all times debasing, at this particular time it was infamous; that a vice,
unworthy of any man, was doubly sinful in a man of education and a minister of God. In vain.
In the midst of his arguments he found himself at the cupboard, with the bottle at his lips,
in an attitude that was at once ludicrous and horrible.

He had no cancer. His disease was a more terrible one. The Reverend James North--gentleman,
scholar, and Christian priest--was what the world calls "a confirmed drunkard".

CHAPTER XV. ONE HUNDRED LASHES.

The morning sun, bright and fierce, looked down upon a curious sight. In a stone-yard was a
little group of persons--Troke, Burgess, Macklewain, Kirkland, and Rufus Dawes.

Three wooden staves, seven feet high, were fastened together in the form of a triangle. The
structure looked not unlike that made by gypsies to boil their kettles. To this structure Kirkland
was bound. His feet were fastened with thongs to the base of the triangle; his wrists, bound
above his head, at the apex. His body was then extended to its fullest length, and his white
back shone in the sunlight. During his tying up he had said nothing--only when Troke pulled
off his shirt he shivered.

"Now, prisoner," said Troke to Dawes, "do your duty."

Rufus Dawes looked from the three stern faces to Kirkland's white back, and his face grew purple.
In all his experience he had never been asked to flog before. He had been flogged often enough.

"You don't want me to flog him, sir?" he said to the Commandant.

"Pick up the cat, sir!" said Burgess, astonished; "what is the meaning of this?" Rufus Dawes
picked up the heavy cat, and drew its knotted lashes between his fingers.

"Go on, Dawes," whispered Kirkland, without turning his head. "You are no more than another man."

"What does he say?" asked Burgess.

"Telling him to cut light, sir," said Troke, eagerly lying; "they all do it." "Cut light, eh!
We'll see about that. Get on, my man, and look sharp, or I'll tie you up and give you fifty
for yourself, as sure as God made little apples."

"Go on, Dawes," whispered Kirkland again. "I don't mind."

Rufus Dawes lifted the cat, swung it round his head, and brought its knotted cords down upon
the white back.

"Wonn!" cried Troke.

The white back was instantly striped with six crimson bars. Kirkland stifled a cry. It seemed
to him that he had been cut in half.

"Now then, you scoundrel!" roared Burgess; "separate your cats! What do you mean by flogging
a man that fashion?"

Rufus Dawes drew his crooked fingers through the entangled cords, and struck again. This time
the blow was more effective, and the blood beaded on the skin.

The boy did not cry; but Macklewain saw his hands clutch the staves tightly, and the muscles
of his naked arms quiver.

"Tew!"

"That's better," said Burgess.

The third blow sounded as though it had been struck upon a piece of raw beef, and the crimson
turned purple.

"My God!" said Kirkland, faintly, and bit his lips.

The flogging proceeded in silence for ten strikes, and then Kirkland gave a screech like a
wounded horse.

"Oh!...Captain Burgess!...Dawes!...Mr. Troke!...Oh, my God!... Oh! oh!...Mercy!...Oh, Doctor!...Mr.
North!...Oh! Oh! Oh!"

"Ten!" cried Troke, impassively counting to the end of the first twenty.

The lad's back, swollen into a lump, now presented the appearance of a ripe peach which a wilful
child had scored with a pin. Dawes, turning away from his bloody handiwork, drew the cats through
his fingers twice. They were beginning to get clogged a little.

"Go on," said Burgess, with a nod; and Troke cried "Wonn!" again.

Roused by the morning sun streaming in upon him, Mr. North opened his bloodshot eyes, rubbed
his forehead with hands that trembled, and suddenly awakening to a consciousness of his promised
errand, rolled off the bed and rose to his feet. He saw the empty brandy bottle on his wooden
dressing-table, and remembered what had passed. With shaking hands he dashed water over his
aching head, and smoothed his garments. The debauch of the previous night had left the usual
effects behind it. His brain seemed on fire, his hands were hot and dry, his tongue clove to
the roof of his mouth. He shuddered as he viewed his pale face and red eyes in the little looking-glass,
and hastily tried the door. He had retained sufficient sense in his madness to lock it, and
his condition had been unobserved. Stealing into the sitting-room, he saw that the clock pointed
to half-past six. The flogging was to have taken place at half-past five. Unless accident had
favoured him he was already too late. Fevered with remorse and anxiety, he hurried past the
room where Meekin yet slumbered, and made his way to the prison. As he entered the yard, Troke
called "Ten!" Kirkland had just got his fiftieth lash.

"Stop!" cried North. "Captain Burgess, I call upon you to stop."

"You're rather late, Mr. North," retorted Burgess. "The punishment is nearly over." "Wonn!"
cried Troke again; and North stood by, biting his nails and grinding his teeth, during six
more lashes.

Kirkland ceased to yell now, and merely moaned. His back was like a bloody sponge, while in
the interval between lashes the swollen flesh twitched like that of a new-killed bullock. Suddenly,
Macklewain saw his head droop on his shoulder. "Throw him off! Throw him off!" he cried, and
Troke hurried to loosen the thongs.

"Fling some water over him!" said Burgess; "he's shamming."

A bucket of water made Kirkland open his eyes. "I thought so," said Burgess. "Tie him up again."

"No. Not if you are Christians!" cried North.

He met with an ally where he least expected one. Rufus Dawes flung down the dripping cat. "I'll
flog no more," said he.

"What?" roared Burgess, furious at this gross insolence.

"I'll flog no more. Get someone else to do your blood work for you. I won't."

"Tie him up!" cried Burgess, foaming. "Tie him up. Here, constable, fetch a man here with a
fresh cat. I'll give you that beggar's fifty, and fifty more on the top of 'em; and he shall
look on while his back cools."

Rufus Dawes, with a glance at North, pulled off his shirt without a word, and stretched himself
at the triangles. His back was not white and smooth, like Kirkland's had been, but hard and
seamed. He had been flogged before. Troke appeared with Gabbett--grinning. Gabbett liked flogging.
It was his boast that he could flog a man to death on a place no bigger than the palm of his
hand. He could use his left hand equally with his right, and if he got hold of a "favourite",
would "cross the cuts".

Rufus Dawes planted his feet firmly on the ground, took fierce grasp on the staves, and drew
in his breath. Macklewain spread the garments of the two men upon the ground, and, placing
Kirkland upon them, turned to watch this new phase in the morning's amusement. He grumbled
a little below his breath, for he wanted his breakfast, and when the Commandant once began
to flog there was no telling where he would stop. Rufus Dawes took five-and-twenty lashes without
a murmur, and then Gabbett "crossed the cuts". This went on up to fifty lashes, and North felt
himself stricken with admiration at the courage of the man. "If it had not been for that cursed
brandy," thought he, with bitterness of self-reproach, "I might have saved all this." At the
hundredth lash, the giant paused, expecting the order to throw off, but Burgess was determined
to "break the man's spirit".

"I'll make you speak, you dog, if I cut your heart out!" he cried. "Go on, prisoner."

For twenty lashes more Dawes was mute, and then the agony forced from his labouring breast
a hideous cry. But it was not a cry for mercy, as that of Kirkland's had been. Having found
his tongue, the wretched man gave vent to his boiling passion in a torrent of curses. He shrieked
imprecation upon Burgess, Troke, and North. He cursed all soldiers for tyrants, all parsons
for hypocrites. He blasphemed his God and his Saviour. With a frightful outpouring of obscenity
and blasphemy, he called on the earth to gape and swallow his persecutors, for Heaven to open
and rain fire upon them, for hell to yawn and engulf them quick. It was as though each blow
of the cat forced out of him a fresh burst of beast-like rage. He seemed to have abandoned
his humanity. He foamed, he raved, he tugged at his bonds until the strong staves shook again;
he writhed himself round upon the triangles and spat impotently at Burgess, who jeered at his
torments. North, with his hands to his ears, crouched against the corner of the wall, palsied
with horror. It seemed to him that the passions of hell raged around him. He would fain have
fled, but a horrible fascination held him back.

In the midst of this--when the cat was hissing its loudest--Burgess laughing his hardest, and
the wretch on the triangles filling the air with his cries, North saw Kirkland look at him
with what he thought a smile. Was it a smile? He leapt forward, and uttered a cry of dismay
so loud that all turned.

"Hullo!" says Troke, running to the heap of clothes, "the young 'un's slipped his wind!"

Kirkland was dead.

"Throw him off!" says Burgess, aghast at the unfortunate accident; and Gabbett reluctantly
untied the thongs that bound Rufus Dawes. Two constables were alongside him in an instant,
for sometimes newly tortured men grew desperate. This one, however, was silent with the last
lash; only in taking his shirt from under the body of the boy, he muttered, "Dead!" and in
his tone there seemed to be a touch of envy. Then, flinging his shirt over his bleeding shoulders,
he walked out--defiant to the last.

"Game, ain't he?" said one constable to the other, as they pushed him, not ungently, into an
empty cell, there to wait for the hospital guard. The body of Kirkland was taken away in silence,
and Burgess turned rather pale when he saw North's threatening face.

"It isn't my fault, Mr. North," he said. "I didn't know that the lad was chicken-hearted."
But North turned away in disgust, and Macklewain and Burgess pursued their homeward route together.

"Strange that he should drop like that," said the Commandant.

"Yes, unless he had any internal disease," said the surgeon. That Provincial
  mules had also requested to come to these peoples, which would
  only have hope for peace, having maintained, and tested very well
  in Rome that he just thought able to bear the brunt of this province,
  being so troubled. And then finally ran a rumor that having
  returned Yapeyú browsers, which downstream vigia movements
  of the Spanish, had said, without sure, that that his pursuer had
  been taken to Lima, Nande moangeio ago Yape ogucrhaima Lima.
  But some are expected notice it.
  
  43.

  He ended the month of July, when a post Yapeyú flying or running,
  warned that the jump of Uruguay 20 Spanish boats they saw: that
  the scouts are cruzeños had met with Spanish explorers, and they
  had heard say, by command of the army generals approached:
  that four monks, the family of the Seraphic San Francisco father,
  had come to Yapeyú at festivals San Ignacio great Father, to move
  things with activity of transmigration, and having reached the sheriff's
  Lt. San Nicolas, had brought letters from the Captain General
  D. Nicolas Ñenguirú, mayor of Conception, who asked armed people
  or military supplies, it was determined that after the Feast of
  the Assumption of Our Lady, splitting the troops in each
  town. Meanwhile, three e-fame consecutive comforted the sorrowful,
  because he said that in the Yapeyú fields had reached a squadron
  of Spanish, to a small fee, called Jesus Maria, which is located
  near the jumps of Uruguay: but having sent the Indian to stop
  higher payment, and returned to their lands, and having claimed
  that their compatriots had no luck in move, and that neither the
  other people had to allow transmigration, offended the freedom
  of the Indian who resisted, having tied, took him and his men
  to rest of the army. This rumor spread by neighbors fazendeiros
  and excited to take up arms, and having called and Charruas
  summoned troops, and Guano Minuanes Gentiles who were wandering
  these fields more untimely as night, rushed to all the Spanish
  troops, to some stripped (he said they were 50), others
  forced to run, took a whole herd of horses, and released to the
  prisoners. These things happened in Uruguay.
  
  Phaco in the river, the explorers left their already Luisistas
  destroyed fortress, and approaching to that of the Portuguese,
  three guards took away the horses that grazed together at the same
  strength, and when they had pulled in vain shot from the castle,
the enemy took a troop of 14 horses.

  
  
  44. Europe warned of Lima, the confessor of the King expired at
  the end of the stimulus of his conscience, had totum declared
  the monarch in the state of affairs of Indians, who had shocked
  his Majesty, and then the point coupling the Council had ordered
the Proceres, and Universities had also called to board, so that Charms
and examine if the Indians, and his unarmed proprio motu, on the one
preaching it had secured, and surrendered their land to protect them,
and if they so freely subjects, could be lawfully deprived of their
lands, and other points.

  Still do not know the failure of directors, but is expected
  to cause justice require judges to give a just sentence.

45.
  Meanwhile, the villages situated to the other side of Uruguay,
  with those of San Nicolas that are of this, gathered together
  rushed 11 games against the Spanish that were approaching: namely,
  the conceptions, Nicole, the Thomists, and finally the Cross,
  the Apostles, the San Carlos and San Jose, San Xavier, and
  also the San Borja, but, having changed his mind, he rushed
  Yapeyú join. Besides this, those of the Martyrs, which Little has
  now, believing the priest, had been terminated go, stay behind,
  and they said, but falsely, because canoes went after the
  Uruguay River. Only Indian only the people of Santa Maria, who
  had been deposed shortly ha the position of captain of the village,
with few companions went to the real of his own to raise them, not
in numbers but in spirit: there were 150 of each town, and is not
true if they gathered enough points or less.

  Of others peoples of the other side of Uruguay, joined forces
  auxiliary of 25 horsemen and 60 foot soldiers of the people of
  San Miguel, but a new case or event, and new warnings,
  forced to stay in their limits.
  
  46.
   So he passed on, giving good-humoured Denis Flaherty, the son of the butter-merchant
of Kildrum, a wide berth and sea-room, lest he should pounce down upon him unawares, and with
Jesuitical argument and silken softness of speech, convert him by force to his own state of
error--as was the well-known custom of those intellectual gladiators, the Priests of the Catholic
Faith. North, on his side, left Flaherty with regret. He had spent many a pleasant hour with
him, and knew him for a narrow-minded, conscientious, yet laughter-loving creature, whose God
was neither his belly nor his breviary, but sometimes in one place and sometimes in the other,
according to the hour of the day, and the fasts appointed for due mortification of the flesh.
"A man who would do Christian work in a jog-trot parish, or where men lived too easily to sin
harshly, but utterly unfit to cope with Satan, as the British Government had transported him,"
was North's sadly satirical reflection upon Father Flaherty, as Port Arthur faded into indistinct
beauty behind the swift-sailing schooner. "God help those poor villains, for neither parson
nor priest can."

He was right. North, the drunkard and self-tormented, had a power for good, of which Meekin
and the other knew nothing. Not merely were the men incompetent and self-indulgent, but they
understood nothing of that frightful capacity for agony which is deep in the soul of every
evil-doer. They might strike the rock as they chose with sharpest-pointed machine-made pick
of warranted Gospel manufacture, stamped with the approval of eminent divines of all ages,
but the water of repentance and remorse would not gush for them. They possessed not the frail
rod which alone was powerful to charm. They had no sympathy, no knowledge, no experience. He
who would touch the hearts of men must have had his own heart seared. The missionaries of mankind
have ever been great sinners before they earned the divine right to heal and bless. Their weakness
was made their strength, and out of their own agony of repentance came the knowledge which
made them masters and saviours of their kind. It was the agony of the Garden and the Cross
that gave to the world's Preacher His kingdom in the hearts of men. The crown of divinity is
a crown of thorns.

North, on his arrival, went straight to the house of Major Vickers. "I have a complaint to
make, sir," he said. "I wish to lodge it formally with you. A prisoner has been flogged to
death at Port Arthur. I saw it done."

Vickers bent his brow. "A serious accusation, Mr. North. I must, of course, receive it with
respect, coming from you, but I trust that you have fully considered the circumstances of the
case. I always understood Captain Burgess was a most humane man."

North shook his head. He would not accuse Burgess. He would let the events speak for themselves.
"I only ask for an inquiry," said he.

"Yes, my dear sir, I know. Very proper indeed on your part, if you think any injustice has
been done; but have you considered the expense, the delay, the immense trouble and dissatisfaction
all this will give?"

"No trouble, no expense, no dissatisfaction, should stand in the way of humanity and justice,"
cried North.

"Of course not. But will justice be done? Are you sure you can prove your case? Mind, I admit
nothing against Captain Burgess, whom I have always considered a most worthy and zealous officer;
but, supposing your charge to be true, can you prove it?"

"Yes. If the witnesses speak the truth."

"Who are they?" "Myself, Dr. Macklewain, the constable, and two prisoners, one of whom was
flogged himself. He will speak the truth, I believe. The other man I have not much faith in."

"Very well; then there is only a prisoner and Dr. Macklewain; for if there has been foul play
the convict-constable will not accuse the authorities. Moreover, the doctor does not agree
with you."

"No?" cried North, amazed.

"No. You see, then, my dear sir, how necessary it is not to be hasty in matters of this kind.
I really think--pardon me for my plainness--that your goodness of heart has misled you. Captain
Burgess sends a report of the case. He says the man was sentenced to a hundred lashes for gross
insolence and disobedience of orders, that the doctor was present during the punishment, and
that the man was thrown off by his directions after he had received fifty-six lashes. Not a word. He had no signature. The letter seemed to counterfeit.

Don Braulio read the letter once, twice, three times, and who does
not know well, like someone not believe the testimony of his senses,
and who still doubt whether it is true or if a nightmare or a delusion
it is perceived.

Evenly then did pause thousand pieces of the letter, including the envelope, then was about to take the
bits in the basket at his side for torn paper, and after, as a better reflection, and as if
fearing that the letter could come together and put back torn, Don
Braulio rose from his seat, went to the fire that burned on one side
of the room and gently tossed into the flame all those bits of paper.

He returned to his table to begin their day jobs, but no sooner got
three or four steps, he failed to stand, and he fell on the floor
mat that covered the stay.

Colleagues and clerks were rushed there to lift.

- What is it, Don
Braulio? - Said one.

- González Amigo! - Said another.

Don Braulio did not respond.

- It's a stroke.

- What a devil of
an accident!

- What stroke? - Said another -.

Apoplectic good looks of this man is drier than a cod.

- Rather be a weakness fainting - said a fourth partner, which rises above the funny thing -.
His wife will spend it all in buns, and eat little at home.

Finally, although not very charitable fellow, attended Don Braulio,
who soon to come to.

His first care was to plead to those present not to say anything about
what happened, so that at home to know, do not panic.

All promised silence.

Don Braulio said then that he was fully recovered and returned to his seat and went to work
as if nothing had happened.

Did not leave the office that day and a half minute before the usual time.

When he returned home, no one had noticed on his face the slightest
trace of pain.

Said quietly to his wife that Paco Ramirez called
the place, I had to fix big business there, and that night was to
take the train in Spain.

Caused some surprise at the sudden trip
Beatriz Don Braulio, but he said with Serenity was not one that should
inspire care business, and so all suspicion vanished, both the mind
of his wife's mind as Inesita, which was also somewhat amazed at first.


Sylvia had become the wife of Maurice Frere. The wedding created excitement in the convict
settlement, for Maurice Frere, though oppressed by the secret shame at open matrimony which
affects men of his character, could not in decency--seeing how "good a thing for him" was this
wealthy alliance--demand unceremonious nuptials. So, after the fashion of the town--there being
no "continent" or "Scotland" adjacent as a hiding place for bridal blushes--the alliance was
entered into with due pomp of ball and supper; bride and bridegroom departing through the golden
afternoon to the nearest of Major Vickers's stations. Thence it had been arranged they should
return after a fortnight, and take ship for Sydney.

Major Vickers, affectionate though he was to the man whom he believed to be the saviour of
his child, had no notion of allowing him to live on Sylvia's fortune. He had settled his daughter's
portion--ten thousand pounds--upon herself and children, and had informed Frere that he expected
him to live upon an income of his own earning. After many consultations between the pair, it
had been arranged that a civil appointment in Sydney would best suit the bridegroom, who was
to sell out of the service. This notion was Frere's own. He never cared for military duty,
and had, moreover, private debts to no inconsiderable amount. By selling his commission he
would be enabled at once to pay these debts, and render himself eligible for any well-paid
post under the Colonial Government that the interest of his father-in-law, and his own reputation
as a convict disciplinarian, might procure. Vickers would fain have kept his daughter with
him, but he unselfishly acquiesced in the scheme, admitting that Frere's plea as to the comforts
she would derive from the society to be found in Sydney was a valid one.

"You can come over and see us when we get settled, papa," said Sylvia, with a young matron's
pride of place, "and we can come and see you. Hobart Town is very pretty, but I want to see
the world."

"You should go to London, Poppet," said Maurice, "that's the place. Isn't it, sir?"

"Oh, London!" cries Sylvia, clapping her hands. "And Westminster Abbey, and the Tower, and
St. James's Palace, and Hyde Park, and Fleet-street! 'Sir,' said Dr. Johnson, 'let us take
a walk down Fleet-street.' Do you remember, in Mr. Croker's book, Maurice? No, you don't I
know, because you only looked at the pictures, and then read Pierce Egan's account of the Topping
Fight between Bob Gaynor and Ned Neal, or some such person."

"Little girls should be seen and not heard," said Maurice, between a laugh and a blush. "You
have no business to read my books."

"Why not?" she asked, with a gaiety which already seemed a little strained; "husband and wife
should have no secrets from each other, sir. Besides, I want you to read my books. I am going
to read Shelley to you."

"Don't, my dear," said Maurice simply. "I can't understand him." 

The darkness of night was awful. It seemed as if nature took its part of complicity in the crime.

Entreabrióse
the shutters of the house, and he went cautiously Fortunato, carrying
over his shoulder, sewn into a blanket, the body of Aquilino.

 "Maurice, there
can be no necessity to go there."

"Well," said Maurice. "I want to have a look at the place. I ought to be familiar with all
phases of convict discipline, you know."

"There is likely to be a report ordered upon the death of a prisoner," said Vickers. "The chaplain,
a fussy but well-meaning person, has been memorializing about it. You may as well do it as
anybody else, Maurice."

"Ay. And save the expenses of the trip," said Maurice.

"But it is so melancholy," cried Sylvia.

"The most delightful place in the island, my dear. I was there for a few days once, and I really
was charmed."

It was remarkable--so Vickers thought--how each of these newly-mated ones had caught something
of the other's manner of speech. Sylvia was less choice in her mode of utterance; Frere more
so. He caught himself wondering which of the two methods both would finally adopt.

"But those dogs, and sharks, and things. Oh, Maurice, haven't we had enough of convicts?"

"Enough! Why, I'm going to make my living out of 'em," said Maurice, with his most natural manner.

Sylvia sighed.

"Play something, darling," said her father; and so the girl, sitting down to the piano, trilled
and warbled in her pure young voice, until the Port Arthur question floated itself away upon
waves of melody, and was heard of no more for that time. But upon pursuing the subject, Sylvia
found her husband firm. He wanted to go, and he would go. Having once assured himself that
it was advantageous to him to do a certain thing, the native obstinacy of the animal urged
him to do it despite all opposition from others, and Sylvia, having had her first "cry" over
the question of the visit, gave up the point. This was the first difference of their short
married life, and she hastened to condone it. In the sunshine of Love and Marriage--for Maurice
at first really loved her; and love, curbing the worst part of him, brought to him, as it brings
to all of us, that gentleness and abnegation of self which is the only token and assurance
of a love aught but animal--Sylvia's fears and doubts melted away, as the mists melt in the
beams of morning. A young girl, with passionate fancy, with honest and noble aspiration, but
with the dark shadow of her early mental sickness brooding upon her childlike nature, Marriage
made her a woman, by developing in her a woman's trust and pride in the man to whom she had
voluntarily given herself. Yet by-and-by out of this sentiment arose a new and strange source
of anxiety. Having accepted her position as a wife, and put away from her all doubts as to
her own capacity for loving the man to whom she had allied herself, she began to be haunted
by a dread lest he might do something which would lessen the affection she bore him. On one
or two occasions she had been forced to confess that her husband was more of an egotist than
she cared to think. He demanded of her no great sacrifices--had he done so she would have found,
in making them, the pleasure that women of her nature always find in such self-mortification--but
he now and then intruded on her that disregard for the feeling of others which was part of
his character. He was fond of her--almost too passionately fond, for her staider liking--but
he was unused to thwart his own will in anything, least of all in those seeming trifles, for
the consideration of which true selfishness bethinks itself. Did she want to read when he wanted
to walk, he good-humouredly put aside her book, with an assumption that a walk with him must,
of necessity, be the most pleasing thing in the world. Did she want to walk when he wanted
to rest, he laughingly set up his laziness as an all-sufficient plea for her remaining within
doors. He was at no pains to conceal his weariness when she read her favourite books to him.
If he felt sleepy when she sang or played, he slept without apology. If she talked about a
subject in which he took no interest, he turned the conversation remorselessly. He would not
have wittingly offended her, but it seemed to him natural to yawn when he was weary, to sleep
when he was fatigued, and to talk only about those subjects which interested him. Had anybody
told him that he was selfish, he would have been astonished. Thus it came about that Sylvia
one day discovered that she led two lives--one in the body, and one in the spirit--and that
with her spiritual existence her husband had no share. This discovery alarmed her, but then
she smiled at it. "As if Maurice could be expected to take interest in all my silly fancies,"
said she; and, despite a harassing thought that these same fancies were not foolish, but were
the best and brightest portion of her, she succeeded in overcoming her uneasiness. "A man's
thoughts are different from a woman's," she said; "he has his business and his worldly cares,
of which a woman knows nothing. I must comfort him, and not worry him with my follies."

As for Maurice, he grew sometimes rather troubled in his mind. He could not understand his
wife. Her nature was an enigma to him; her mind was a puzzle which would not be pieced together
with the rectangular correctness of ordinary life. He had known her from a child, had loved
her from a child, and had committed a mean and cruel crime to obtain her; but having got her,
he was no nearer to the mystery of her than before. She was all his own, he thought. Her golden
hair was for his fingers, her lips were for his caress, her eyes looked love upon him alone.
Yet there were times when her lips were cold to his kisses, and her eyes looked disdainfully
upon his coarser passion. He would catch her musing when he spoke to her, much as she would
catch him sleeping when she read to him--but she awoke with a start and a blush at her forgetfulness,
which he never did. He was not a man to brood over these things; and, after some reflective
pipes and ineffectual rubbings of his head, he "gave it up". How was it possible, indeed, for
him to solve the mental enigma when the woman herself was to him a physical riddle? It was
extraordinary that the child he had seen growing up by his side day by day should be a young
woman with little secrets, now to be revealed to him for the first time. He found that she
had a mole on her neck, and remembered that he had noticed it when she was a child. Then it
was a thing of no moment, now it was a marvellous discovery. He was in daily wonderment at
the treasure he had obtained. He marvelled at her feminine devices of dress and adornment.
Her dainty garments seemed to him perfumed with the odour of sanctity.

The fact was that the patron of Sarah Purfoy had not met with many virtuous women, and had
but just discovered what a dainty morsel Modesty was.

CHAPTER XVIII. IN THE HOSPITAL.

The hospital of Port Arthur was not a cheerful place, but to the tortured and unnerved Rufus
Dawes it seemed a paradise. There at least--despite the roughness and contempt with which his
gaolers ministered to him--he felt that he was considered. There at least he was free from
the enforced companionship of the men whom he loathed, and to whose level he felt, with mental
agony unspeakable, that he was daily sinking. Throughout his long term of degradation he had,
as yet, aided by the memory of his sacrifice and his love, preserved something of his self-respect,
but he felt that he could not preserve it long. Little by little he had come to regard himself
as one out of the pale of love and mercy, as one tormented of fortune, plunged into a deep
into which the eye of Heaven did not penetrate. Since his capture in the garden of Hobart Town,
he had given loose rein to his rage and his despair. "I am forgotten or despised; I have no
name in the world; what matter if I become like one of these?" It was under the influence of
this feeling that he had picked up the cat at the command of Captain Burgess. As the unhappy
Kirkland had said, "As well you as another"; and truly, what was he that he should cherish
sentiments of honour or humanity? But he had miscalculated his own capacity for evil. As he
flogged, he blushed; and when he flung down the cat and stripped his own back for punishment,
he felt a fierce joy in the thought that his baseness would be atoned for in his own blood.
Even when, unnerved and faint from the hideous ordeal, he flung himself upon his knees in the
cell, he regretted only the impotent ravings that the torture had forced from him. He could
have bitten out his tongue for his blasphemous utterings--not because they were blasphemous,
but because their utterance, by revealing his agony, gave their triumph to his tormentors.
When North found him, he was in the very depth of this abasement, and he repulsed his comforter--not
so much because he had seen him flogged, as because he had heard him cry. The self-reliance
and force of will which had hitherto sustained him through his self-imposed trial had failed
him--he felt--at the moment when he needed it most; and the man who had with unflinched front
faced the gallows, the desert, and the sea, confessed his debased humanity beneath the physical
torture of the lash. He had been flogged before, and had wept in secret at his degradation,
but he now for the first time comprehended how terrible that degradation might be made, for
he realized how the agony of the wretched body can force the soul to quit its last poor refuge
of assumed indifference, and confess itself conquered.

Not many months before, one of the companions of the chain, suffering under Burgess's tender
mercies, had killed his mate when at work with him, and, carrying the body on his back to the
nearest gang, had surrendered himself--going to his death thanking God he had at last found
a way of escape from his miseries, which no one would envy him--save his comrades. The heart
of Dawes had been filled with horror at a deed so bloody, and he had, with others, commented
on the cowardice of the man that would thus shirk the responsibility of that state of life
in which it had pleased man and the devil to place him. Now he understood how and why the crime
had been committed, and felt only pity. Lying awake with back that burned beneath its lotioned
rags, when lights were low, in the breathful silence of the hospital, he registered in his
heart a terrible oath that he would die ere he would again be made such hideous sport for his
enemies. In this frame of mind, with such shreds of honour and worth as had formerly clung
to him blown away in the whirlwind of his passion, he bethought him of the strange man who
had deigned to clasp his hand and call him "brother". He had wept no unmanly tears at this
sudden flow of tenderness in one whom he had thought as callous as the rest. He had been touched
with wondrous sympathy at the confession of weakness made to him, in a moment when his own
weakness had overcome him to his shame. Soothed by the brief rest that his fortnight of hospital
seclusion had afforded him, he had begun, in a languid and speculative way, to turn his thoughts
to religion. He had read of martyrs who had borne agonies unspeakable, upheld by their confidence
in Heaven and God. In his old wild youth he had scoffed at prayers and priests; in the hate
to his kind that had grown upon him with his later years he had despised a creed that told
men to love one another. "God is love, my brethren," said the chaplain on Sundays, and all
the week the thongs of the overseer cracked, and the cat hissed and swung. Of what practical
value was a piety that preached but did not practise? It was admirable for the "religious instructor"
to tell a prisoner that he must not give way to evil passions, but must bear his punishment
with meekness. It was only right that he should advise him to "put his trust in God". But as
a hardened prisoner, convicted of getting drunk in an unlicensed house of entertainment, had
said, "God's terrible far from Port Arthur."

Rufus Dawes had smiled at the spectacle of priests admonishing men, who knew what he knew and
had seen what he had seen, for the trivialities of lying and stealing. He had believed all
priests impostors or fools, all religion a mockery and a lie. But now, finding how utterly
his own strength had failed him when tried by the rude test of physical pain, he began to think
that this Religion which was talked of so largely was not a mere bundle of legend and formulae,
but must have in it something vital and sustaining. Broken in spirit and weakened in body,
with faith in his own will shaken, he longed for something to lean upon, and turned--as all
men turn when in such case--to the Unknown. Had now there been at hand some Christian priest,
some Christian-spirited man even, no matter of what faith, to pour into the ears of this poor
wretch words of comfort and grace; to rend away from him the garment of sullenness and despair
in which he had wrapped himself; to drag from him a confession of his unworthiness, his obstinacy,
and his hasty judgment, and to cheer his fainting soul with promise of immortality and justice,
he might have been saved from his after fate; but there was no such man. 

To the point quickly left the bedroom or den adjacent to a girl of thirteen, disheveled, with a
walk of one who just woke up suddenly, without ornaments a linen skirt and a denim bodice
that clung to her bosom, yet sharp, shirt tow. Neither looked at the girl to Mr. Rosendo, and gave
him good morning, groggy with sleep and hurt by the cool morning that he was biting the epidermis,
was to be dropped in a saddle, and while the waffle spectacularly lit matches and applied
to chips, the girl began to rub with a chamois the huge tubes of tin where the wafers are
stored.

Mr. Rosendo seated himself on his high wooden tripod before the flame sputtered and crackling already,
and getting into the magna fire tongs, began the operation. He had his right Amoh borer, which
wet the magazine, kind of thick stick, and extending a thin coating of liquid on the inside of
the hot irons, hurried to wrap in the mold with your thumb, which by dint of repeating this act had
become a callus toast, no nail, no yolk and almost formless. The waffles, golden and warm, fell
in the lap of the girl, who was introducing each other by way of glass tubes, and symmetrically
placed in the bottom of the canes; work was executed in silence, that more be heard rumor that the
cracking of the wood, the rhythmic squeak of the tongs to open and close its jaws of iron, dry
shock of crisp wafers by stumbling and the hiss of Amoh to evaporate the moisture on the hot
plate. Candlelight and reflections of the light glinted on the tin clean the glazed clay pots
the shelves, and the softening temperature is raised to the point that Mr. Rosendo to take off
the rubber cap with visor, revealing his sweaty bald head, and she flinch with the back of his hand
that stifled unruly locks.

Meanwhile, the sun, and in the skies camper, was determined to sift
through some clarity of green glass and pigs of the windows that was
bound to illuminate the kitchen.

Street shook the sleep of the Castros, and women in braids and hair, when not in petticoats and
slippers, went in a hurry, what to look for water, what to buy supplies to neighboring markets,
could be heard crying kids, barking dogs, a hen cackled, the canary in the barber shop across the
street stepped chirping like crazy. From time to time the child throwing covetous glances
of waffle on the street. When God would have served she left the hard chair, and could look
out the door, which is not much to ask! Soon give nine, and six thousand wafers admitting the
box were made only four thousand plus. The girl stretched mechanically. Is that from here a few
months very little he wore his father's work. Before dispatched more.

Anyone who saw those golden canes, light and brittle as the illusions of childhood, I could not
imagine the enormous work that represented their preparation.

Better off driving hoe or beak to open and close the tongs relentlessly scorching, burning also
fingers, hand and arm, painfully tired shoulder muscles and neck. The gaze always fixed on
the flame, tired, decreased vision, his back, hunched continuously, led to pure strains, the number
of the wafers out of the mold. And no day off! Wafers can not be done yesterday, if they have
to please the little people and greedy, they should be cool. A no humidity to soften. It must
spend the morning, sometimes at night, in factories, and sell them later in vocearlos. In
summer, the season is good and shipped much fat is removed and wages, there that the hours
could you be scorching, lazy hours, melting the heart of that fire, chyle sweating, double
supply of wafers prepared for sale to the public and cafés. Not that Mr. Rosendo was down to his office,
none of this, artists have proud of their skill, but as much as him, none. For over the years
we were winning, even boasted to fill in less time than one tin tube. Do not know delicacy concerning
any of the profession; wafers wide and thin as silk filling yarn eggs, waffles tough and close
to the water and lemon sorbet, hosts for coffee shops - and was not for lack of mold churches
that had a cross - flowers, chips and Carnival friar ears, donuts all the time .... But never had
to wear these ancillary skills because they were absorbent wafers daily. Bah, in achieving
and maintaining family life ....

At nine very long, when about five thousand wafers resting on the tube, yet Father and daughter had
not exchanged a word. Coal and ash piles around the fire, two or three times renewed. The
girl sighed heat, shaking frequently old hand right, middle and grilled. Finally, the girl uttered:

-
I have hunger.

The father turned his head, and expressive eyebrows arching indicated a shelf of Vasari. He seated
the little girl climbing on the trough, and down a medium piece of bread mix, in which bit into
in good spirits.

Still rummaging in her lap remaining crumbs to exploit them, when
they heard creaking cot, coughs, such noises the awakening of a person,
and a plaintive voice from despotic called from the bedroom near the
portal:

- Amparo!

The girl got up and went to call, resonating in a little while your talking.

- Afiáncese, lady ... well ... ge more ... wait I'm going to beat this mattress ... (Y here
is a great symphony heard of corn leaves, one sirrisssch ... long
and harmonious.)

Bossy voice dimly said something, and the child
replied:

- I'm going to put the fire right now for very .... Will
sugar out there?

And responding to a question highly offensive to their dignity, the girl cried:

- And you think .... Although it was pure gold!

Hide it yourself .... There, behind cover ... See?

Came out with a chipped bowl in hand, full of dark molasses, and pulled the fire a pot which
was already the scale, he added in proper proportions and milk sugar,
and returned to the portal room with a steaming cup filled to revert.

At the bottom of pileup was a thing of another cup. The waffle straightened her hands to lumbar
region, and soberly, without concupiscence, had breakfast drinking the leftovers same pot. Then
wiped his forehead with sweat watered the sleeve, entered turn into the next room, and presented
again, dressed in trousers and jacket brown cloth, wore on his back the tin box and fell to
the street. Amparo covering the coal with ash together in a casserole cabbage, potatoes, bacon
rind, rancid pork bone, fulfilling the duty to flavor the broth of the humble household. So
everything was arranged, Then he put into the den, where he consecrated his six personal dressing
and a half minutes, divided as follows: one minute to put on his shoes calf, because I was
still barefoot, and two to throw a flannel petticoats and a dress tartan, one minute to spend
the end of a damp cloth for eyes and mouth (beyond not reach the toilet), two minutes to weed
through a toothless comb the revolt and curly tresses, and a half to touch pañolito neck a
calico. This done, presented a more plump princess the person who had been bedridden for breakfast.
This was a middle-aged woman, bored as a skimmer for smallpox, flat front, small eyes. Seeing the
little girl dressed was shocked: Where would now like wandering?

- A church, ma'am, that is Sunday .... What night or to go back to night? Whenever I came to
day, forever .... Once in a thousand! Preparadito broth is fire .... Well, Abur.

And he took to the streets with the impetuosity and vigor of a well-fired
rocket.

-II-

Father and mother

Three years earlier, was unable
healthy and robust and earned his living in the factory Tobacco.

One winter night was to soap to wash linens groups, sweat, again homeless and crippled hip woke
.-- An air, sir - she said the doctor.

Small abode the family that the Lord works Rosendo: the daily real
bottom Brotherhood of the factory received the patient was less than
half a tooth.

And the girl grew, and ate bread and shoes broke, and there was no
subject who sew or other kinds of tasks.

While his father left, the fear of shaken pasagonzalo charger had it still stringing and placing
wafers, but only the old man ply belt tube Amparo felt a tingling in the legs, a swarm of
blood, like impatience you were born thousands wings on his heels.
The street was his paradise.

The crowd of lovers, elbow and the flatter jerk as if they were touching, the military music
penetrated all his being shivers of excitement. We spent hours and hours running around aimlessly
to through the city, and returned home with bare feet stained with mud, her skirt in tatters,
made a soup, brat, disheveled, loss, and overflowing with happiness and health by pore of his
body. A maternal philippics force ran a broom across the floor, seasoned broth, brought a tool
of water then, with speed of bird escaped from the cage and returns to its free loitering
in the streets and alleys.

Of these instincts erratic little guilt would not necessarily life that made the girl while his
mother attended the factory. Home alone with his father, just this out, she imitate him not
to stay stuck in four walls: go, and they were not so happy to anyone looking at them enraptured.
The kitchen, dark and narrow, like a Espelunca, and over the fire glowed ominously the last
dying embers of the fire. In the skate, If it is true that it became clear, not consoled her
eyes look like a heap of lime and masonry waste, mixed with fragments
of plates, pans broken, a grinder useless, two or three old rags and
shoe ignoble laughed out loud.

Almost more pitiful was the spectacle of double room: the bed in disarray, because the abrupt
departure the factory did not allow it, the color covers hospital, it was not enough to cover
a quilt bobtail, the tallow candle, dripping sadly over the candlestick streaked with verdigris
brass, the pan placed on a chair and bursting with soapy water greasy, in short, the history of
poverty and neglect told in prose by a multitude ugly object, and that the girl understood
intuitively: for some people not born from silk and Dutch, and guess boasts all the comforts
and pleasures that never enjoyed. So Amparo fled, fled their dollars Factory road, taking his mother
in a lunchbox, the bazuqueante broth, but maybe dropping the charge, began to play the run,
St. Severin, the widow, anything with the ladies of her age and coat.

When the mother was bedridden daughter wanted to impose a sedentary work, was late. The rustic
plant is not held and the espaller. Amparo had gone to school in their early years, years of
relative prosperity for the family, going the way most poor girls, who soon tired and their parents
sending them to attend, and are no more skill than reading, when they are ready, and some rudiments
of writing. Amparo needle hardly knew anything. The mother was resigned to the hope of placing
in Factory. - "That work - he said - as I worked." And whisper this sentence sighed, remembering
thirty years of incessant toil. Now the ground meat and bones tended happy in bed, lying on her
back where it lay sweating meantime others to maintain it. That sudasen!

Dominated by the terrible selfishness that often strikes older whose youth was laborious, The
colt was barred fifth recess pain. What is there and could come penalties; what is there to
bother Surely you heat or cold. What was necessary to wash clothes? Well, she had to get up
to soaps, had cost him dearly at once. What floor was dirty? Since the sweep, and if not for
her, even throughout the year is not swept .... What had helped him break both the body when you
were young? Now be seen cripple - "Oh, do not know what health is until after you lose!" -
exclaimed sententiously, especially those days when you atarazaba arthritic pain joints. Other times,
boastful as any invalid, said to his daughter: - "Sácateme front, which irritates see you,
of your age I was a wolf that was a quarter of an hour back to a house. "

Only missed the animation of his factory, the companions. A well that neighboring the street
used to come to offer a bit of Smalltalk: an especially Pepa midwife by Mrs. Porretta bad name.
This woman was huge, across even more than the top, it seemed a rough hewn statue to be seen
from afar. His face enormous, encircled by hanging jowls, serosa was pale. She wore men's
shoes and he wore a ring, male size also, in the little finger. Approached the bed prevented,
was referred to the clothing, we strongly supporting the pillow slapped both hands on the
thighs, in order to sustain mole on his belly, and hollow voice and began to refer off the
neighborhood gossip, lurid details of his profession, or the wonderful cures that can be achieved
with an infusion rue, egg and oil, mallow leaf machacadita well with
rosemary boiled in wine, with ointments fat of chicken.

Revilers whispered that between Parlet and Parlet ajar midwife used the handkerchief that
covered her shoulders and get a bottle easily hidden in any corner of her bra huge, and as corroborated
with a anise drink the exhausted his throat, and offered the bottle to his interlocutor "to scroll
the sorrows of this world. " A hearing of Mr. Rosendo came one day this kind, and was alarmed;
because while the factory was never his wife did not drink more than pure water, but much unwittingly
entered some evenings, did not catch the criminals red-handed. Just saw were very cronies
and buddies. For ex-cigarette Peru worth a midwife, at least this talk, because what's her
husband .... When returning from daily runs by walkways and public places, and the men dropped
down the tube with a crash at the corner of the room, the dialogue of marriage was always the
same:

- What? - Asked the cripple.

And Mr. Rosendo uttered one of these three sentences:

- Thank God Damn .-- .-- A regular.

Referred to the sale, and never gave gender if you added any amplification or scoliosis their
classic prayers. He had the unwavering popular laconic, which is due to pain, Hunger, death
and even joy. Soldier re-enlisted, yoked in their best years iron yoke of military discipline,
he was convinced from the idleness of the word and need of silence.

First silent obedience, then as fate, then out of habit.

In elaborated the wafers silence, quietly sold them, and almost shouted
one can say that silent, for there was nothing analogous to the affectionate
communication setting out the language among rational human beings,
that guttural cry that, perhaps to save a fragment word, the old suppressed
the last syllable, replacing them by prolonged suffering penultimate
vowel:

- Barquilleeeeé ....

-III-

Town of birth

In setting foot
on the street, Amparo breath broadly.

The sun reached its zenith, so glad everything.

In the doorways cats, curled up, had their backs to charity warmth, his eyes winking tiger and
snoring of taste. The chickens came and went digging. The barber's basin, hanging on the sample
and surrounded by a bunch of teeth and rancid, shone like silver. There was loneliness, the
neighbors had gone to church or Bure ½ dozen toddlers, entrusted to the Guardian Angel, pleasured
themselves in the dust and filth the stream, with the chola uncovered and exposed to typhus.
Amparo joined himself to a the lower windows, and knocked on the glass with his fist. The windows
were opened, and was the face of a brunette girl and discolored, which was holding a pillow to
till where he had nailed plenty of tiny pins.

- Hello!

- Hello, Carmela, to hang out with the work around? - It is a day
of mass.

- So I get angry ... said the pale girl, who spoke with
a lisp, own sea ​​of ​​small harbors in the province of Marineda.

-
Sal a little woman ... come with me.

- Today ... Who can!

There is a custom ... sixteen yards of lace for lady Top neighborhood
.... Tuesday will have to deliver without fail.

Carmela sat down again with her pillow in her lap, while the shoulders of Amparo rose between compassion
and indifference, as if Murmur - "The usual '--. He removed from there, and his feet came down
with great agility the steps of the Plaza de Abastos, full at the time of cooks and saleswomen,
and threading in between baskets of chickens, eggs, cheese, hit the streets of St. Ephrem, and then
to the churchyard, where he stopped dazzled.

The estate boasts a Sunday in a provincial capital could be seen gathered at the gate, that people
crossed over majestic of well-dressed and composed, tasty to be seen
and resolved to respect each other and not to promote pushing.

Lined the ladies waiting their turn, buntings and solemn, with lots
of lace mantilla, long devotional singing gold, much gold and pearl
beads, mothers dressed in black silk, girls marriageable, colorful
showy.

Upon arrival in the shutters gave beyond the entrance gate the ship,
had cracks in starched petticoats, soft shoves, elbows soft, breathing
obese women stirred, crosses for rosaries that hooked into a lace
or fringe, phrase groups with some vinegar, and - oh, you dispense
.... A push me, madam, so I .... Do not pull you so, it will break
the ornament .... Excuse me.

Amparo glided between the high society group marinedina, and entered
the temple.

To the sanctuary were placed the girls, kneeling to study, so as not to wrinkle christening
cloths, as had his head down, could be seen to whiten their necks,
and some elegant narrow soled boots tucked in the folds of silk skirts.

Downtown the ship was occupied by the picket and the military band, in correct formation. Both
sides, rows of men, who looked to the ceiling or the side chapels, as if they knew Why do
the eyes. Suddenly looked at the altar glimpse of gold and colors of a chasuble of cloth, the
contest was more silence, the ladies opened their books to gloved hands, and murmured the priest
time Introit and burst into loud chord charanga, voicing notes Traviatta
profane, full of hot beats and febrile erotic duet in the first act.

The metals are added vibrant intensity the song, which, rising broad and nurtured to the roof,
then spread down, content, but spirited, down the nave and transept, to stop suddenly to lift the
host, when this happened, real progress, powerful and magnificent burst of martial instruments
without at intervals ceases to be heard on the altar the mysterious ringing of the bell the acolyte.

At
the start, repeat the parade next to the battery were placed three or four of those already
not yet called dandies and rubbery, but chickens and roosters, making a move to dampen fingers in
holy water, and tending to lean well to get a fleeting damsels Contact gloves monitored by the watchful
eye of their moms. Once on the porch, it was permissible heads up, look around, smile, secretly
composed the blanket, search a familiar face and return a greeting. After the duty, pleasure,
and now the select crowd was going to walk, by invitation of the
music and the joy of a mild Sunday in March, the sun planted the joyful
atmosphere of gold atoms and warm scents of spring.

Amparo was carried away by the current and soon came to be in the ride.

He had then Marineda English park, walking time, beautified the premises: and Rows, which circled
over the winter mornings and summer evenings were a narrow street, paved with stone, some manned
by high row of houses, another by a number of banks that crowned crude allegorical statues
of the Stations Virtues, maimed and deprived of his hands and nose for mischief of boys. Acacia
shaded seats emaciated body of chlorotic foliage (when God gave it); buried under rocks everywhere,
as a prisoner in feudal tower. At that time lacked of leaves but the caress of the sun scorching
impelled to sap up to the buds to swell. The bare branches are silhouetted against the clear
tint of the sky, and far away the sea a metallic blue and burnished, it lay still seeing the
rigging and spars of vessels in the bay, and quiet until the impatient pennants of the masts.
Not a breath of wind, or anything of harmony of deep and sleepy peacefulness of the environment.

Dropped the handkerchief and receiving to lead the sun in his head, looked with great interest
Amparo show that the walk had. Ladies and gentlemen, turning in the short stretch of Rows,
a slow and measured, carefully guarding the right.

The relentless solar light blue shiny black cloth of the Levites, the strong colors softening
silks, discovered the minor imperfections of the complexion, salseo the gloves the site of the
old stitches on clothing and reformed. It was difficult to know at first glance, the notables
of the city: a row of tall felt hats, canes of cane or shell-handled gold, beaver coats, all as
in horsemen proiects and Seriot, clearly revealed to the authorities, ruling, judges, second
place, Governor civil, six or seven pearl-gray trousers, a pair of light gloves, vibrant denounced
ties the gilded youth, a few parasols of satin, a bunch of clothes that transcended import
a thousand leagues from Madrid, indicated to the owners of the scepter of fashion. People passed,
and went back to pass, and were continually passing, and each turn
was being renovated same profession in the same order.

A group of infantry and cavalry officers occupied a whole bank, and the sun appeared concentrated
there, attracted by the glow of gold braid and stars, the pants red, the flash of sword sheaths
and shiny rubber hull of roses. The officers, people of good humor and almost all young, laughing,
chatting and even playing elegant with a swarm of girls, and most would add twelve years, down from
the lowest three. Smaller ones were sitting on the knees, while the other, standing and some glimpses
of women's shyness and modesty, did not dare get too close to the bank, pretending who talked among
themselves, when really only catering to the conversation of the military.
 And then,
forgetting that she was a lady, dressed in silk and lace, she fell on her knees in the dust,
and, folding the friendless pair in her arms, wept over them.

"What is the matter, Sylvia?" said Frere, when he came up. "You've been crying."

"Nothing, Maurice; at least, I will tell you by and by."

When they were alone that evening, she told him of the two little boys, and he laughed. "Artful
little humbugs," he said, and supported his argument by so many illustrations of the precocious
wickedness of juvenile felons, that his wife was half convinced against her will.

          *          *          *          *          *

Unfortunately, when Sylvia went away, Tommy and Billy put into execution a plan which they
had carried in their poor little heads for some weeks.

"I can do it now," said Tommy. "I feel strong."

"Will it hurt much, Tommy?" said Billy, who was not so courageous.

"Not so much as a whipping."

"I'm afraid! Oh, Tom, it's so deep! Don't leave me, Tom!"

The bigger boy took his little handkerchief from his neck, and with it bound his own left hand
to his companion's right.

"Now I can't leave you."

"What was it the lady that kissed us said, Tommy?"

"Lord, have pity on them two fatherless children!" repeated Tommy. "Let's say it together."

And so the two babies knelt on the brink of the cliff, and, raising the bound hands together,
looked up at the sky, and ungrammatically said, "Lord have pity on we two fatherless children!"
And then they kissed each other, and "did it".

          *          *          *          *          *

The intelligence, transmitted by the ever-active semaphore, reached the Commandant in the midst
of dinner, and in his agitation he blurted it out.

"These are the two poor things I saw in the morning," cried Sylvia. "Oh, Maurice, these two
poor babies driven to suicide!"

"Condemning their young souls to everlasting fire," said Meekin, piously.

"Mr. Meekin! How can you talk like that? Poor little creatures! Oh, it's horrible! Maurice,
take me away." And she burst into a passion of weeping. "I can't help it, ma'am," says Burgess,
rudely, ashamed. "It ain't my fault."

"She's nervous," says Frere, leading her away. "You must excuse her. Come and lie down, dearest."

"I will not stay here longer," said she. "Let us go to-morrow."

"We can't," said Frere.

"Oh, yes, we can. I insist. Maurice, if you love me, take me away."

"Well," said Maurice, moved by her evident grief, "I'll try."

He spoke to Burgess. "Burgess, this matter has unsettled my wife, so that she wants to leave
at once. I must visit the Neck, you know. How can we do it?"

"Well," says Burgess, "if the wind only holds, the brig could go round to Pirates' Bay and
pick you up. You'll only be a night at the barracks."

"I think that would be best," said Frere. "We'll start to-morrow, please, and if you'll give
me a pen and ink I'll be obliged."

"I hope you are satisfied," said Burgess.

"Oh yes, quite," said Frere. "I must recommend more careful supervision at Point Puer, though.
It will never do to have these young blackguards slipping through our fingers in this way."

So a neatly written statement of the occurrence was appended to the ledgers in which the names
of William Tomkins and Thomas Grove were entered. Macklewain held an inquest, and nobody troubled
about them any more. Why should they? The prisons of London were full of such Tommys and Billys.

          *          *          *          *          *

Sylvia passed through the rest of her journey in a dream of terror. The incident of the children
had shaken her nerves, and she longed to be away from the place and its associations. Even
Eaglehawk Neck with its curious dog stages and its "natural pavement", did not interest her.
McNab's blandishments were wearisome. She shuddered as she gazed into the boiling abyss of
the Blow-hole, and shook with fear as the Commandant's "train" rattled over the dangerous tramway
that wound across the precipice to Long Bay. The "train" was composed of a number of low wagons
pushed and dragged up the steep inclines by convicts, who drew themselves up in the wagons
when the trucks dashed down the slope, and acted as drags. Sylvia felt degraded at being thus
drawn by human beings, and trembled when the lash cracked, and the convicts answered to the
sting--like cattle. Moreover, there was among the foremost of these beasts of burden a face
that had dimly haunted her girlhood, and only lately vanished from her dreams. This face looked
on her--she thought--with bitterest loathing and scorn, and she felt relieved when at the midday
halt its owner was ordered to fall out from the rest, and was with four others re-chained for
the homeward journey. Frere, struck with the appearance of the five, said, "By Jove, Poppet,
there are our old friends Rex and Dawes, and the others. They won't let 'em come all the way,
because they are such a desperate lot, they might make a rush for it." Sylvia comprehended
now the face was the face of Dawes; and as she looked after him, she saw him suddenly raise
his hands above his head with a motion that terrified her. She felt for an instant a great
shock of pitiful recollection. Staring at the group, she strove to recall when and how Rufus
Dawes, the wretch from whose clutches her husband had saved her, had ever merited her pity,
but her clouded memory could not complete the picture, and as the wagons swept round a curve,
and the group disappeared, she awoke from her reverie with a sigh.

"Maurice," she whispered, "how is it that the sight of that man always makes me sad?"

Her husband frowned, and then, caressing her, bade her forget the man and the place and her
fears. "I was wrong to have insisted on your coming," he said. They stood on the deck of the
Sydney-bound vessel the next morning, and watched the "Natural Penitentiary" grow dim in the
distance. "You were not strong enough."

          *          *          *          *          *

"Dawes," said John Rex, "you love that girl! Now that you've seen her another man's wife, and
have been harnessed like a beast to drag him along the road, while he held her in his arms!--now
that you've seen and suffered that, perhaps you'll join us."

Rufus Dawes made a movement of agonized impatience.

"You'd better. You'll never get out of this place any other way. Come, be a man; join us!"

"No!"

"It is your only chance. Why refuse it? Do you want to live here all your life?"

"I want no sympathy from you or any other. I will not join you."

Rex shrugged his shoulders and walked away. "If you think to get any good out of that 'inquiry',
you are mightily mistaken," said he, as he went. "Frere has put a stopper upon that, you'll
find." He spoke truly. Nothing more was heard of it, only that, some six months afterwards,
Mr. North, when at Parramatta, received an official letter (in which the expenditure of wax
and printing and paper was as large as it could be made) which informed him that the "Comptroller-General
of the Convict Department had decided that further inquiry concerning the death of the prisoner
named in the margin was unnecessary", and that some gentleman with an utterly illegible signature
"had the honour to be his most obedient servant".

CHAPTER XXII. GATHERING IN THE THREADS.

Maurice found his favourable expectations of Sydney fully realized. His notable escape from
death at Macquarie Harbour, his alliance with the daughter of so respected a colonist as Major
Vickers, and his reputation as a convict disciplinarian rendered him a man of note. He received
a vacant magistracy, and became even more noted for hardness of heart and artfulness of prison
knowledge than before. The convict population spoke of him as "that ---- Frere," and registered
vows of vengeance against him, which he laughed--in his bluffness--to scorn.

One anecdote concerning the method by which he shepherded his flock will suffice to show his
character and his value. It was his custom to visit the prison-yard at Hyde Park Barracks twice
a week. Visitors to convicts were, of course, armed, and the two pistol-butts that peeped from
Frere's waistcoat attracted many a longing eye. How easy would it be for some fellow to pluck
one forth and shatter the smiling, hateful face of the noted disciplinarian! Frere, however,
brave to rashness, never would bestow his weapons more safely, but lounged through the yard
with his hands in the pockets of his shooting-coat, and the deadly butts ready to the hand
of anyone bold enough to take them.

One day a man named Kavanagh, a captured absconder, who had openly sworn in the dock the death
of the magistrate, walked quickly up to him as he was passing through the yard, and snatched
a pistol from his belt. The yard caught its breath, and the attendant warder, hearing the click
of the lock, instinctively turned his head away, so that he might not be blinded by the flash.
But Kavanagh did not fire. At the instant when his hand was on the pistol, he looked up and
met the magnetic glance of Frere's imperious eyes. An effort, and the spell would have been
broken. A twitch of the finger, and his enemy would have fallen dead. There was an instant
when that twitch of the finger could have been given, but Kavanagh let that instant pass. The
dauntless eye fascinated him. He played with the pistol nervously, while all remained stupefied.
Frere stood, without withdrawing his hands from the pockets into which they were plunged.

"That's a fine pistol, Jack," he said at last.

Kavanagh, down whose white face the sweat was pouring, burst into a hideous laugh of relieved
terror, and thrust the weapon, cocked as it was, back again into the magistrate's belt.

Frere slowly drew one hand from his pocket, took the cocked pistol and levelled it at his recent
assailant. "That's the best chance you'll ever get, Jack," said he.

Kavanagh fell on his knees. "For God's sake, Captain Frere!" Frere looked down on the trembling
wretch, and then uncocked the pistol, with a laugh of ferocious contempt. "Get up, you dog,"
he said. "It takes a better man than you to best me. Bring him up in the morning, Hawkins,
and we'll give him five-and-twenty."

As he went out--so great is the admiration for Power--the poor devils in the yard cheered him.

One of the first things that this useful officer did upon his arrival in Sydney was to inquire
for Sarah Purfoy. To his astonishment, he discovered that she was the proprietor of large export
warehouses in Pitt-street, owned a neat cottage on one of the points of land which jutted into
the bay, and was reputed to possess a banking account of no inconsiderable magnitude. He in
vain applied his brains to solve this mystery. His cast-off mistress had not been rich when
she left Van Diemen's Land--at least, so she had assured him, and appearances bore out her
assurance. How had she accumulated this sudden wealth? Above all, why had she thus invested
it? He made inquiries at the banks, but was snubbed for his pains. Sydney banks in those days
did some queer business. Mrs. Purfoy had come to them "fully accredited," said the manager
with a smile.

"But where did she get the money?" asked the magistrate. "I am suspicious of these sudden fortunes.
The woman was a notorious character in Hobart Town, and when she left hadn't a penny."

"My dear Captain Frere," said the acute banker--his father had been one of the builders of
the "Rum Hospital"--"it is not the custom of our bank to make inquiries into the previous history
of its customers. The bills were good, you may depend, or we should not have honoured them.
Good morning!"

"The bills!" Frere saw but one explanation. Sarah had received the proceeds of some of Rex's
rogueries. Rex's letter to his father and the mention of the sum of money "in the old house
in Blue Anchor Yard" flashed across his memory. Perhaps Sarah had got the money from the receiver
and appropriated it. But why invest it in an oil and tallow warehouse? He had always been suspicious
of the woman, because he had never understood her, and his suspicions redoubled. Convinced
that there was some plot hatching, he determined to use all the advantages that his position
gave him to discover the secret and bring it to light. The name of the man to whom Rex's letters
had been addressed was "Blicks". He would find out if any of the convicts under his care had
heard of Blicks. Prosecuting his inquiries in the proper direction, he soon obtained a reply.
Blicks was a London receiver of stolen goods, known to at least a dozen of the black sheep
of the Sydney fold. He was reputed to be enormously wealthy, had often been tried, but never
convicted. Frere was thus not much nearer enlightenment than before, and an incident occurred
a few months afterwards which increased his bewilderment He had not been long established in
his magistracy, when Blunt came to claim payment for the voyage of Sarah Purfoy. "There's that
schooner going begging, one may say, sir," said Blunt, when the office door was shut.

"What schooner?"

"The Franklin."

Now the Franklin was a vessel of three hundred and twenty tons which plied between Norfolk
Island and Sydney, as the Osprey had plied in the old days between Macquarie Harbour and Hobart
Town. "I am afraid that is rather stiff, Blunt," said Frere. "That's one of the best billets
going, you know. I doubt if I have enough interest to get it for you. Besides," he added, eyeing
the sailor critically, "you are getting oldish for that sort of thing, ain't you?"

Phineas Blunt stretched his arms wide, and opened his mouth, full of sound white teeth. "I
am good for twenty years more yet, sir," he said. "My father was trading to the Indies at seventy-five
years of age. I'm hearty enough, thank God; for, barring a drop of rum now and then, I've no
vices to speak of. However, I ain't in a hurry, Captain, for a month or so; only I thought
I'd jog your memory a bit, d ye see."

"Oh, you're not in a hurry; where are you going then?"

"Well," said Blunt, shifting on his seat, uneasy under Frere's convict-disciplined eye, "I've
got a job on hand."

"Glad of it, I'm sure. What sort of a job?"

"A job of whaling," said Blunt, more uneasy than before.

"Oh, that's it, is it? Your old line of business. And who employs you now?" There was no suspicion
in the tone, and had Blunt chosen to evade the question, he might have done so without difficulty,
but he replied as one who had anticipated such questioning, and had been advised how to answer it.

"Mrs. Purfoy."

"What!" cried Frere, scarcely able to believe his ears.

"She's got a couple of ships now, Captain, and she made me skipper of one of 'em. We look for
beshdellamare [beche-de-la-mer], and take a turn at harpooning sometimes."

Frere stared at Blunt, who stared at the window. There was--so the instinct of the magistrate
told him--some strange project afoot. Yet that common sense which so often misleads us, urged
that it was quite natural Sarah should employ whaling vessels to increase her trade. Granted
that there was nothing wrong about her obtaining the business, there was nothing strange about
her owning a couple of whaling vessels. There were people in Sydney, of no better origin, who
owned half-a-dozen. "Oh," said he. "And when do you start?"

"I'm expecting to get the word every day," returned Blunt, apparently relieved, "and I thought
I'd just come and see you first, in case of anything falling in." Frere played with a pen-knife
on the table in silence for a while, allowing it to fall through his fingers with a series
of sharp clicks, and then he said, "Where does she get the money from?"

"Blest if I know!" said Blunt, in unaffected simplicity. "That's beyond me. She says she saved
it. But that's all my eye, you know."

"You don't know anything about it, then?" cried Frere, suddenly fierce.

"No, not I."

"Because, if there's any game on, she'd better take care," he cried, relapsing, in his excitement,
into the convict vernacular. "She knows me. Tell her that I've got my eyes on her. Let her
remember her bargain. If she runs any rigs on me, let her take care." In his suspicious wrath
he so savagely and unwarily struck downwards with the open pen-knife that it shut upon his
fingers, and cut him to the bone.

"I'll tell her," said Blunt, wiping his brow. "I'm sure she wouldn't go to sell you. But I'll
look in when I come back, sir." When he got outside he drew a long breath. "By the Lord Harry,
but it's a ticklish game to play," he said to himself, with a lively recollection of the dreaded
Frere's vehemence; "and there's only one woman in the world I'd be fool enough to play it for."

Maurice Frere, oppressed with suspicions, ordered his horse that afternoon, and rode down to
see the cottage which the owner of "Purfoy Stores" had purchased. He found it a low white building,
situated four miles from the city, at the extreme end of a tongue of land which ran into the
deep waters of the harbour. A garden carefully cultivated, stood between the roadway and the
house, and in this garden he saw a man digging.

"Does Mrs. Purfoy live here?" he asked, pushing open one of the iron gates.

The man replied in the affirmative, staring at the visitor with some suspicion.

"Is she at home?"

"No."

"You are sure?"

"If you don't believe me, ask at the house," was the reply, given in the uncourteous tone of
a free man.

Frere pushed his horse through the gate, and walked up the broad and well-kept carriage drive.
A man-servant in livery, answering his ring, told him that Mrs. Purfoy had gone to town, and
then shut the door in his face. Frere, more astonished than ever at these outward and visible
signs of independence, paused, indignant, feeling half inclined to enter despite opposition.
As he looked through the break of the trees, he saw the masts of a brig lying at anchor off
the extremity of the point on which the house was built, and understood that the cottage commanded
communication by water as well as by land. Could there be a special motive in choosing such
a situation, or was it mere chance? He was uneasy, but strove to dismiss his alarm.

Sarah had kept faith with him so far. She had entered upon a new and more reputable life, and
why should he seek to imagine evil where perhaps no evil was? Blunt was evidently honest. Women
like Sarah Purfoy often emerged into a condition of comparative riches and domestic virtue.
It was likely that, after all, some wealthy merchant was the real owner of the house and garden,
pleasure yacht, and tallow warehouse, and that he had no cause for fear.

The experienced convict disciplinarian did not rate the ability of John Rex high enough.

From the instant the convict had heard his sentence of life banishment, he had determined upon
escaping, and had brought all the powers of his acute and unscrupulous intellect to the consideration
of the best method of achieving his purpose. His first care was to procure money. This he thought
to do by writing to Blick, but when informed by Meekin of the fate of his letter, he adopted
the--to him--less pleasant alternative of procuring it through Sarah Purfoy.

It was peculiar to the man's hard and ungrateful nature that, despite the attachment of the
woman who had followed him to his place of durance, and had made it the object of her life
to set him free, he had cherished for her no affection. It was her beauty that had attracted
him, when, as Mr. Lionel Crofton, he swaggered in the night-society of London. Her talents
and her devotion were secondary considerations--useful to him as attributes of a creature he
owned, but not to be thought of when his fancy wearied of its choice. During the twelve years
which had passed since his rashness had delivered him into the hands of the law at the house
of Green, the coiner, he had been oppressed with no regrets for her fate. He had, indeed, seen
and suffered so much that the old life had been put away from him. When, on his return, he
heard that Sarah Purfoy was still in Hobart Town, he was glad, for he knew that he had an ally
who would do her utmost to help him--she had shown that on board the Malabar. But he was also
sorry, for he remembered that the price she would demand for her services was his affection,
and that had cooled long ago. However, he would make use of her. There might be a way to discard
her if she proved troublesome.

His pretended piety had accomplished the end he had assumed it for. Despite Frere's exposure
of his cryptograph, he had won the confidence of Meekin; and into that worthy creature's ear
he poured a strange and sad story. He was the son, he said, of a clergyman of the Church of
England, whose real name, such was his reverence for the cloth, should never pass his lips.
He was transported for a forgery which he did not commit. Sarah Purfoy was his wife--his erring,
lost and yet loved wife. She, an innocent and trusting girl, had determined--strong in the
remembrance of that promise she had made at the altar--to follow her husband to his place of
doom, and had hired herself as lady's-maid to Mrs. Vickers. Alas! fever prostrated that husband
on a bed of sickness, and Maurice Frere, the profligate and the villain, had taken advantage
of the wife's unprotected state to ruin her! Rex darkly hinted how the seducer made his power
over the sick and helpless husband a weapon against the virtue of the wife and so terrified
poor Meekin that, had it not "happened so long ago", he would have thought it necessary to
look with some disfavour upon the boisterous son-in-law of Major Vickers.

"I bear him no ill-will, sir," said Rex. "I did at first. There was a time when I could have
killed him, but when I had him in my power, I--as you know--forbore to strike. No, sir, I could
not commit murder!"

"Very proper," says Meekin, "very proper indeed." "God will punish him in His own way, and
His own time," continued Rex. "My great sorrow is for the poor woman. She is in Sydney, I have
heard, living respectably, sir; and my heart bleeds for her." Here Rex heaved a sigh that would
have made his fortune on the boards.

"My poor fellow," said Meekin. "Do you know where she is?"

"I do, sir."

"You might write to her."

John Rex appeared to hesitate, to struggle with himself, and finally to take a deep resolve.
"No, Mr. Meekin, I will not write."

"Why not?"

"You know the orders, sir--the Commandant reads all the letters sent. Could I write to my poor
Sarah what other eyes were to read?" and he watched the parson slyly.

"N--no, you could not," said Meekin, at last.

"It is true, sir," said Rex, letting his head sink on his breast. The next day, Meekin, blushing
with the consciousness that what he was about to do was wrong, said to his penitent, "If you
will promise to write nothing that the Commandant might not see, Rex, I will send your letter
to your wife."

"Heaven bless you, sir,". said Rex, and took two days to compose an epistle which should tell
Sarah Purfoy how to act. The letter was a model of composition in one way. It stated everything
clearly and succinctly. Not a detail that could assist was omitted--not a line that could embarrass
was suffered to remain. John Rex's scheme of six months' deliberation was set down in the clearest
possible manner. He brought his letter unsealed to Meekin. Meekin looked at it with an interest
that was half suspicion. "Have I your word that there is nothing in this that might not be
read by the Commandant?"

John Rex was a bold man, but at the sight of the deadly thing fluttering open in the clergyman's
hand, his knees knocked together. Strong in his knowledge of human nature, however, he pursued
his desperate plan. "Read it, sir," he said turning away his face reproachfully. "You are a
gentleman. I can trust you."

"No, Rex," said Meekin, walking loftily into the pitfall; "I do not read private letters."
It was sealed, and John Rex felt as if somebody had withdrawn a match from a powder barrel.

In a month Mr. Meekin received a letter, beautifully written, from "Sarah Rex", stating briefly
that she had heard of his goodness, that the enclosed letter was for her husband, and that
if it was against the rules to give it him, she begged it might be returned to her unread.
Of course Meekin gave it to Rex, who next morning handed to Meekin a most touching pious production,
begging him to read it. Meekin did so, and any suspicions he may have had were at once disarmed.
He was ignorant of the fact that the pious letter contained a private one intended for John
Rex only, which letter John Rex thought so highly of, that, having read it twice through most
attentively, he ate it.

The plan of escape was after all a simple one. Sarah Purfoy was to obtain from Blicks the moneys
he held in trust, and to embark the sum thus obtained in any business which would suffer her
to keep a vessel hovering round the southern coast of Van Diemen's Land without exciting suspicion.
The escape was to be made in the winter months, if possible, in June or July. The watchful
vessel was to be commanded by some trustworthy person, who was to frequently land on the south-eastern
side, and keep a look-out for any extraordinary appearance along the coast. Rex himself must
be left to run the gauntlet of the dogs and guards unaided. "This seems a desperate scheme,"
wrote Rex, "but it is not so wild as it looks. I have thought over a dozen others, and rejected
them all. This is the only way. Consider it well. I have my own plan for escape, which is easy
if rescue be at hand. All depends upon placing a trustworthy man in charge of the vessel. You
ought to know a dozen such. I will wait eighteen months to give you time to make all arrangements."
The eighteen months had now nearly passed over, and the time for the desperate attempt drew
near. Faithful to his cruel philosophy, John Rex had provided scape-goats, who, by their vicarious
agonies, should assist him to his salvation.

He had discovered that of the twenty men in his gang eight had already determined on an effort
for freedom. The names of these eight were Gabbett, Vetch, Bodenham, Cornelius, Greenhill,
Sanders, called the "Moocher", Cox, and Travers. The leading spirits were Vetch and Gabbett,
who, with profound reverence, requested the "Dandy" to join. John Rex, ever suspicious, and
feeling repelled by the giant's strange eagerness, at first refused, but by degrees allowed
himself to appear to be drawn into the scheme. He would urge these men to their fate, and take
advantage of the excitement attendant on their absence to effect his own escape. "While all
the island is looking for these eight boobies, I shall have a good chance to slip away unmissed."
He wished, however, to have a companion. Some strong man, who, if pressed hard, would turn
and keep the pursuers at bay, would be useful without doubt; and this comrade-victim he sought
in Rufus Dawes.

Beginning, as we have seen, from a purely selfish motive, to urge his fellow-prisoner to abscond
with him, John Rex gradually found himself attracted into something like friendliness by the
sternness with which his overtures were repelled. Always a keen student of human nature, the
scoundrel saw beneath the roughness with which it had pleased the unfortunate man to shroud
his agony, how faithful a friend and how ardent and undaunted a spirit was concealed. There
was, moreover, a mystery about Rufus Dawes which Rex, the reader of hearts, longed to fathom.

"Have you no friends whom you would wish to see?" he asked, one evening, when Rufus Dawes had
proved more than usually deaf to his arguments.

"No," said Dawes gloomily. "My friends are all dead to me."

"What, all?" asked the other. "Most men have some one whom they wish to see."

Rufus Dawes laughed a slow, heavy laugh. "I am better here."

"Then are you content to live this dog's life?"

"Enough, enough," said Dawes. "I am resolved."

"Pooh! Pluck up a spirit," cried Rex. "It can't fail. I've been thinking of it for eighteen
months, and it can't fail."

"Who are going?" asked the other, his eyes fixed on the ground. John Rex enumerated the eight,
and Dawes raised his head. "I won't go. I have had two trials at it; I don't want another.
I would advise you not to attempt it either."

"Why not?"

"Gabbett bolted twice before," said Rufus Dawes, shuddering at the remembrance of the ghastly
object he had seen in the sunlit glen at Hell's Gates. "Others went with him, but each time
he returned alone."

"What do you mean?" asked Rex, struck by the tone of his companion.

"What became of the others?"

"Died, I suppose," said the Dandy, with a forced laugh.

"Yes; but how? They were all without food. How came the surviving monster to live six weeks?"

John Rex grew a shade paler, and did not reply. He recollected the sanguinary legend that pertained
to Gabbett's rescue. But he did not intend to make the journey in his company, so, after all,
he had no cause for fear. "Come with me then," he said, at length. "We will try our luck together."

"No. I have resolved. I stay here."

"And leave your innocence unproved."

"How can I prove it?" cried Rufus Dawes, roughly impatient. "There are crimes committed which
are never brought to light, and this is one of them."

"Well," said Rex, rising, as if weary of the discussion, "have it your own way, then. You know
best. The private detective game is hard work. I, myself, have gone on a wild-goose chase before
now. There's a mystery about a certain ship-builder's son which took me four months to unravel,
and then I lost the thread."

"A ship-builder's son! Who was he?"

John Rex paused in wonderment at the eager interest with which the question was put, and then
hastened to take advantage of this new opening for conversation. "A queer story. A well-known
character in my time--Sir Richard Devine. A miserly old curmudgeon, with a scapegrace son."

Rufus Dawes bit his lips to avoid showing his emotion. This was the second time that the name
of his dead father had been spoken in his hearing. "I think I remember something of him," he
said, with a voice that sounded strangely calm in his own ears.

"A curious story," said Rex, plunging into past memories. "Amongst other matters, I dabbled
a little in the Private Inquiry line of business, and the old man came to me. He had a son
who had gone abroad--a wild young dog, by all accounts--and he wanted particulars of him."

"Did you get them?"

"To a certain extent. I hunted him through Paris into Brussels, from Brussels to Antwerp, from
Antwerp back to Paris. I lost him there. A miserable end to a long and expensive search. I
got nothing but a portmanteau with a lot of letters from his mother. I sent the particulars
to the ship-builder, and by all accounts the news killed him, for he died not long after."

"And the son?"

"Came to the queerest end of all. The old man had left him his fortune--a large one, I believe--but
he'd left Europe, it seems, for India, and was lost in the Hydaspes. Frere was his cousin."

"Ah!"

"By Gad, it annoys me when I think of it," continued Rex, feeling, by force of memory, once
more the adventurer of fashion. "With the resources I had, too. Oh, a miserable failure! The
days and nights I've spent walking about looking for Richard Devine, and never catching a glimpse
of him. The old man gave me his son's portrait, with full particulars of his early life, and
I suppose I carried that ivory gimcrack in my breast for nearly three months, pulling it out
to refresh my memory every half-hour. By Gad, if the young gentleman was anything like his
picture, I could have sworn to him if I'd met him in Timbuctoo."

"Do you think you'd know him again?" asked Rufus Dawes in a low voice, turning away his head.

There may have been something in the attitude in which the speaker had put himself that awakened
memory, or perhaps the subdued eagerness of the tone, contrasting so strangely with the comparative
inconsequence of the theme, that caused John Rex's brain to perform one of those feats of automatic
synthesis at which we afterwards wonder. The profligate son--the likeness to the portrait--the
mystery of Dawes's life! These were the links of a galvanic chain. He closed the circuit, and
a vivid flash revealed to him--THE MAN.

Warder Troke, coming up, put his hand on Rex's shoulder. "Dawes," he said, "you're wanted at
the yard"; and then, seeing his mistake, added with a grin, "Curse you two; you're so much
alike one can't tell t'other from which."

Rufus Dawes walked off moodily; but John Rex's evil face turned pale, and a strange hope made
his heart leap. "Gad, Troke's right; we are alike. I'll not press him to escape any more."

CHAPTER XXIII. RUNNING THE GAUNTLET.

The Pretty Mary--as ugly and evil-smelling a tub as ever pitched under a southerly burster--had
been lying on and off Cape Surville for nearly three weeks. Captain Blunt was getting wearied.
He made strenuous efforts to find the oyster-beds of which he was ostensibly in search, but
no success attended his efforts. In vain did he take boat and pull into every cove and nook
between the Hippolyte Reef and Schouten's Island. In vain did he run the Pretty Mary as near
to the rugged cliffs as he dared to take her, and make perpetual expeditions to the shore.
In vain did he--in his eagerness for the interests of Mrs. Purfoy--clamber up the rocks, and
spend hours in solitary soundings in Blackman's Bay. He never found an oyster. "If I don't
find something in three or four days more," said he to his mate, "I shall go back again. It's
too dangerous cruising here."

          *          *          *          *          *

On the same evening that Captain Blunt made this resolution, the watchman at Signal Hill saw
the arms of the semaphore at the settlement make three motions, thus:

The semaphore was furnished with three revolving arms, fixed one above the other. The upper
one denoted units, and had six motions, indicating ONE to SIX. The middle one denoted tens,
TEN to SIXTY. The lower one marked hundreds, from ONE HUNDRED to SIX HUNDRED.

The lower and upper arms whirled out. That meant THREE HUNDRED AND SIX. A ball ran up to the
top of the post. That meant ONE THOUSAND.

Number 1306, or, being interpreted, "PRISONERS ABSCONDED".

"By George, Harry," said Jones, the signalman, "there's a bolt!"

The semaphore signalled again: "Number 1411".

"WITH ARMS!" Jones said, translating as he read. "Come here, Harry! here's a go!"

But Harry did not reply, and, looking down, the watchman saw a dark figure suddenly fill the
doorway. The boasted semaphore had failed this time, at all events. The "bolters" had arrived
as soon as the signal!

The man sprang at his carbine, but the intruder had already possessed himself of it. "It's
no use making a fuss, Jones! There are eight of us. Oblige me by attending to your signals."

Jones knew the voice. It was that of John Rex. "Reply, can't you?" said Rex coolly. "Captain
Burgess is in a hurry." The arms of the semaphore at the settlement were, in fact, gesticulating
with comical vehemence.

Jones took the strings in his hands, and, with his signal-book open before him, was about to
acknowledge the message, when Rex stopped him. "Send this message," he said. "NOT SEEN! SIGNAL
SENT TO EAGLEHAWK!"

Jones paused irresolutely. He was himself a convict, and dreaded the inevitable cat that he
knew would follow this false message. "If they finds me out--" he said. Rex cocked the carbine
with so decided a meaning in his black eyes that Jones--who could be brave enough on occasions--banished
his hesitation at once, and began to signal eagerly. There came up a clinking of metal, and
a murmur from below. "What's keepin' yer, Dandy?"

"All right. Get those irons off, and then we'll talk, boys. I'm putting salt on old Burgess's
tail." The rough jest was received with a roar, and Jones, looking momentarily down from his
window on the staging, saw, in the waning light, a group of men freeing themselves from their
irons with a hammer taken from the guard-house; while two, already freed, were casting buckets
of water on the beacon wood-pile. The sentry was lying bound at a little distance.

"Now," said the leader of this surprise party, "signal to Woody Island." Jones perforce obeyed.
"Say, 'AN ESCAPE AT THE MINES! WATCH ONE-TREE POINT! SEND ON TO EAGLEHAWK!' Quick now!"

Jones--comprehending at once the force of this manoeuvre, which would have the effect of distracting
attention from the Neck--executed the order with a grin. "You're a knowing one, Dandy Jack,"
said he.

John Rex acknowledged the compliment by uncocking the carbine. "Hold out your hands!--Jemmy
Vetch!" "Ay, ay," replied the Crow, from beneath. "Come up and tie our friend Jones. Gabbett,
have you got the axes?" "There's only one," said Gabbett, with an oath. "Then bring that, and
any tucker you can lay your hands on. Have you tied him? On we go then." And in the space of
five minutes from the time when unsuspecting Harry had been silently clutched by two forms,
who rushed upon him out of the shadows of the huts, the Signal Hill Station was deserted.

At the settlement Burgess was foaming. Nine men to seize the Long Bay boat, and get half an
hour's start of the alarm signal, was an unprecedented achievement! What could Warder Troke
have been about! Warder Troke, however, found eight hours afterwards, disarmed, gagged, and
bound in the scrub, had been guilty of no negligence. How could he tell that, at a certain
signal from Dandy Jack, the nine men he had taken to Stewart's Bay would "rush" him; and, before
he could draw a pistol, truss him like a chicken? The worst of the gang, Rufus Dawes, had volunteered
for the hated duties of pile-driving, and Troke had felt himself secure. How could he possibly
guess that there was a plot, in which Rufus Dawes, of all men, had refused to join?

Constables, mounted and on foot, were despatched to scour the bush round the settlement. Burgess,
confident from the reply of the Signal Hill semaphore, that the alarm had been given at Eaglehawk
Isthmus, promised himself the re-capture of the gang before many hours; and, giving orders
to keep the communications going, retired to dinner. His convict servants had barely removed
the soup when the result of John Rex's ingenuity became manifest.

The semaphore at Signal Hill had stopped working.

"Perhaps the fools can't see," said Burgess. "Fire the beacon--and saddle my horse." The beacon
was fired. All right at Mount Arthur, Mount Communication, and the Coal Mines. To the westward
the line was clear. But at Signal Hill was no answering light. Burgess stamped with rage. "Get
me my boat's crew ready; and tell the Mines to signal to Woody Island." As he stood on the
jetty, a breathless messenger brought the reply. "A BOAT'S CREW GONE TO ONE-TREE POINT! FIVE
MEN SENT FROM EAGLEHAWK IN OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS!" Burgess understood it at once. The fellows
had decoyed the Eaglehawk guard. "Give way, men!" And the boat, shooting into the darkness,
made for Long Bay. "I won't be far behind 'em," said the Commandant, "at any rate."

Between Eaglehawk and Signal Hill were, for the absconders, other dangers. Along the indented
coast of Port Bunche were four constables' stations. These stations--mere huts within signalling
distance of each other--fringed the shore, and to avoid them it would be necessary to make
a circuit into the scrub. Unwilling as he was to lose time, John Rex saw that to attempt to
run the gauntlet of these four stations would be destruction. The safety of the party depended
upon the reaching of the Neck while the guard was weakened by the absence of some of the men
along the southern shore, and before the alarm could be given from the eastern arm of the peninsula.
With this view, he ranged his men in single file; and, quitting the road near Norfolk Bay,
made straight for the Neck. The night had set in with a high westerly wind, and threatened
rain. It was pitch dark; and the fugitives were guided only by the dull roar of the sea as
it beat upon Descent Beach. Had it not been for the accident of a westerly gale, they would
not have had even so much assistance.

The Crow walked first, as guide, carrying a musket taken from Harry. Then came Gabbett, with
an axe; followed by the other six, sharing between them such provisions as they had obtained
at Signal Hill. John Rex, with the carbine, and Troke's pistols, walked last. It had been agreed
that if attacked they were to run each one his own way. In their desperate case, disunion was
strength. At intervals, on their left, gleamed the lights of the constables' stations, and
as they stumbled onward they heard plainer and more plainly the hoarse murmur of the sea, beyond
which was liberty or death.

After nearly two hours of painful progress, Jemmy Vetch stopped, and whispered them to approach.
They were on a sandy rise. To the left was a black object--a constable's hut; to the right
was a dim white line--the ocean; in front was a row of lamps, and between every two lamps leapt
and ran a dusky, indistinct body. Jemmy Vetch pointed with his lean forefinger.

"The dogs!"

Instinctively they crouched down, lest even at that distance the two sentries, so plainly visible
in the red light of the guard-house fire, should see them.

"Well, bo's," said Gabbett, "what's to be done now?"

As he spoke, a long low howl broke from one of the chained hounds, and the whole kennel burst
into hideous outcry. John Rex, who perhaps was the bravest of the party, shuddered. "They have
smelt us," he said. "We must go on."

Gabbett spat in his palm, and took firmer hold of the axe-handle.

"Right you are," he said. "I'll leave my mark on some of them before this night's out!"

On the opposite shore lights began to move, and the fugitives could hear the hurrying tramp
of feet.

"Make for the right-hand side of the jetty," said Rex in a fierce whisper. "I think I see a
boat there. It is our only chance now. We can never break through the station. Are we ready?
Now! All together!"

Gabbett was fast outstripping the others by some three feet of distance. There were eleven
dogs, two of whom were placed on stages set out in the water, and they were so chained that
their muzzles nearly touched. The giant leapt into the line, and with a blow of his axe split
the skull of the beast on his right hand. This action unluckily took him within reach of the
other dog, which seized him by the thigh.

"Fire!" cried McNab from the other side of the lamps.

The giant uttered a cry of rage and pain, and fell with the dog under him. It was, however,
the dog who had pulled him down, and the musket-ball intended for him struck Travers in the
jaw. The unhappy villain fell--like Virgil's Dares--"spitting blood, teeth, and curses."

Gabbett clutched the mastiff's throat with iron hand, and forced him to loose his hold; then,
bellowing with fury, seized his axe and sprang forward, mangled as he was, upon the nearest
soldier. Jemmy Vetch had been beforehand with him. Uttering a low snarl of hate, he fired,
and shot the sentry through the breast. The others rushed through the now broken cordon, and
made headlong for the boat.

"Fools!" cried Rex behind them. "You have wasted a shot! LOOK TO YOUR LEFT!"

Burgess, hurried down the tramroad by his men, had tarried at Signal Hill only long enough
to loose the surprised guard from their bonds, and taking the Woody Island boat was pulling
with a fresh crew to the Neck. The reinforcement was not ten yards from the jetty.

The Crow saw the danger, and, flinging himself into the water, desperately seized McNab's boat.

"In with you for your lives!" he cried. Another volley from the guard spattered the water around
the fugitives, but in the darkness the ill-aimed bullets fell harmless. Gabbett swung himself
over the sheets, and seized an oar.

"Cox, Bodenham, Greenhill! Now, push her off! Jump, Tom, jump!" and as Burgess leapt to land,
Cornelius was dragged over the stern, and the whale-boat floated into deep water.

McNab, seeing this, ran down to the water-side to aid the Commandant.

"Lift her over the Bar, men!" he shouted. "With a will--So!" And, raised in twelve strong arms,
the pursuing craft slid across the isthmus.

"We've five minutes' start," said Vetch coolly, as he saw the Commandant take his place in
the stern sheets. "Pull away, my jolly boys, and we'll best 'em yet."

The soldiers on the Neck fired again almost at random, but the blaze of their pieces only served
to show the Commandant's boat a hundred yards astern of that of the mutineers, which had already
gained the deep water of Pirates' Bay.

Then, for the first time, the six prisoners became aware that John Rex was not among them.

CHAPTER XXIV. IN THE NIGHT.

John Rex had put into execution the first part of his scheme.

At the moment when, seeing Burgess's boat near the sand-spit, he had uttered the warning cry
heard by Vetch, he turned back into the darkness, and made for the water's edge at a point
some distance from the Neck. His desperate hope was that, the attention of the guard being
concentrated on the escaping boat, he might, favoured by the darkness and the confusion--swim
to the peninsula. It was not a very marvellous feat to accomplish, and he had confidence in
his own powers. Once safe on the peninsula, his plans were formed. But, owing to the strong
westerly wind, which caused an incoming tide upon the isthmus, it was necessary for him to
attain some point sufficiently far to the southward to enable him, on taking the water, to
be assisted, not impeded, by the current. With this view, he hurried over the sandy hummocks
at the entrance to the Neck, and ran backwards towards the sea. In a few strides he had gained
the hard and sandy shore, and, pausing to listen, heard behind him the sound of footsteps.
He was pursued. The footsteps stopped, and then a voice cried--

"Surrender!"

It was McNab, who, seeing Rex's retreat, had daringly followed him. John Rex drew from his
breast Troke's pistol and waited.

"Surrender!" cried the voice again, and the footsteps advanced two paces.

At the instant that Rex raised the weapon to fire, a vivid flash of lightning showed him, on
his right hand, on the ghastly and pallid ocean, two boats, the hindermost one apparently within
a few yards of him. The men looked like corpses. In the distance rose Cape Surville, and beneath
Cape Surville was the hungry sea. The scene vanished in an instant--swallowed up almost before
he had realized it. But the shock it gave him made him miss his aim, and, flinging away the
pistol with a curse, he turned down the path and fled. McNab followed.

The path had been made by frequent passage from the station, and Rex found it tolerably easy
running. He had acquired--like most men who live much in the dark--that cat-like perception
of obstacles which is due rather to increased sensitiveness of touch than increased acuteness
of vision. His feet accommodated themselves to the inequalities of the ground; his hands instinctively
outstretched themselves towards the overhanging boughs; his head ducked of its own accord to
any obtrusive sapling which bent to obstruct his progress. His pursuer was not so fortunate.
Twice did John Rex laugh mentally, at a crash and scramble that told of a fall, and once--in
a valley where trickled a little stream that he had cleared almost without an effort--he heard
a splash that made him laugh outright. The track now began to go uphill, and Rex redoubled
his efforts, trusting to his superior muscular energy to shake off his pursuer. He breasted
the rise, and paused to listen. The crashing of branches behind him had ceased, and it seemed
that he was alone.

He had gained the summit of the cliff. The lights of the Neck were invisible. Below him lay
the sea. Out of the black emptiness came puffs of sharp salt wind. The tops of the rollers
that broke below were blown off and whirled away into the night--white patches, swallowed up
immediately in the increasing darkness. From the north side of the bay was borne the hoarse
roar of the breakers as they dashed against the perpendicular cliffs which guarded Forrestier's
Peninsula. At his feet arose a frightful shrieking and whistling, broken at intervals by reports
like claps of thunder. Where was he? Exhausted and breathless, he sank down into the rough
scrub and listened. All at once, on the track over which he had passed, he heard a sound that
made him bound to his feet in deadly fear--the bay of a dog!

He thrust his hand to his breast for the remaining pistol, and uttered a cry of alarm. He had
dropped it. He felt round about him in the darkness for some stick or stone that might serve
as a weapon. In vain. His fingers clutched nothing but prickly scrub and coarse grass. The
sweat ran down his face. With staring eyeballs, and bristling hair, he stared into the darkness,
as if he would dissipate it by the very intensity of his gaze. The noise was repeated, and,
piercing through the roar of wind and water, above and below him, seemed to be close at hand.
He heard a man's voice cheering the dog in accents that the gale blew away from him before
he could recognize them. It was probable that some of the soldiers had been sent to the assistance
of McNab. Capture, then, was certain. In his agony, the wretched man almost promised himself
repentance, should he escape this peril. The dog, crashing through the underwood, gave one
short, sharp howl, and then ran mute.

The darkness had increased the gale. The wind, ravaging the hollow heaven, had spread between
the lightnings and the sea an impenetrable curtain of black cloud. It seemed possible to seize
upon this curtain and draw its edge yet closer, so dense was it. The white and raging waters
were blotted out, and even the lightning seemed unable to penetrate that intense blackness.
A large, warm drop of rain fell upon Rex's outstretched hand, and far overhead rumbled a wrathful
peal of thunder. The shrieking which he had heard a few moments ago had ceased, but every now
and then dull but immense shocks, as of some mighty bird flapping the cliff with monstrous
wings, reverberated around him, and shook the ground where he stood. He looked towards the
ocean, and a tall misty Form--white against the all-pervading blackness--beckoned and bowed
to him. He saw it distinctly for an instant, and then, with an awful shriek, as of wrathful
despair, it sank and vanished. Maddened with a terror he could not define, the hunted man turned
to meet the material peril that was so close at hand.

With a ferocious gasp, the dog flung himself upon him. John Rex was borne backwards, but, in
his desperation, he clutched the beast by the throat and belly, and, exerting all his strength,
flung him off. The brute uttered one howl, and seemed to lie where he had fallen; while above
his carcase again hovered that white and vaporous column. It was strange that McNab and the
soldier did not follow up the advantage they had gained. Courage--perhaps he should defeat
them yet! He had been lucky to dispose of the dog so easily. With a fierce thrill of renewed
hope, he ran forward; when at his feet, in his face, arose that misty Form, breathing chill
warning, as though to wave him back. The terror at his heels drove him on. A few steps more,
and he should gain the summit of the cliff. He could feel the sea roaring in front of him in
the gloom. The column disappeared; and in a lull of wind, uprose from the place where it had
been such a hideous medley of shrieks, laughter, and exultant wrath, that John Rex paused in
horror. Too late. The ground gave way--it seemed--beneath his feet. He was falling--clutching,
in vain, at rocks, shrubs, and grass. The cloud-curtain lifted, and by the lightning that leaped
and played about the ocean, John Rex found an explanation of his terrors, more terrible than
they themselves had been. The track he had followed led to that portion of the cliff in which
the sea had excavated the tunnel-spout known as the Devil's Blow-hole.

Clinging to a tree that, growing half-way down the precipice, had arrested his course, he stared
into the abyss. Before him--already high above his head--was a gigantic arch of cliff. Through
this arch he saw, at an immense distance below him, the raging and pallid ocean. Beneath him
was an abyss splintered with black rocks, turbid and raucous with tortured water. Suddenly
the bottom of this abyss seemed to advance to meet him; or, rather, the black throat of the
chasm belched a volume of leaping, curling water, which mounted to drown him. Was it fancy
that showed him, on the surface of the rising column, the mangled carcase of the dog?

The chasm into which John Rex had fallen was shaped like a huge funnel set up on its narrow
end. The sides of this funnel were rugged rock, and in the banks of earth lodged here and there
upon projections, a scrubby vegetation grew. The scanty growth paused abruptly half-way down
the gulf, and the rock below was perpetually damp from the upthrown spray. Accident--had the
convict been a Meekin, we might term it Providence--had lodged him on the lowest of these banks
of earth. In calm weather he would have been out of danger, but the lightning flash revealed
to his terror-sharpened sense a black patch of dripping rock on the side of the chasm some
ten feet above his head. It was evident that upon the next rising of the water-spout the place
where he stood would be covered with water.

The roaring column mounted with hideous swiftness. Rex felt it rush at him and swing him upward.
With both arms round the tree, he clutched the sleeves of his jacket with either hand. Perhaps
if he could maintain his hold he might outlive the shock of that suffocating torrent. He felt
his feet rudely seized, as though by the hand of a giant, and plucked upwards. Water gurgled
in his ears. His arms seemed about to be torn from their sockets. Had the strain lasted another
instant, he must have loosed his hold; but, with a wild hoarse shriek, as though it was some
sea-monster baffled of its prey, the column sank, and left him gasping, bleeding, half-drowned,
but alive. It was impossible that he could survive another shock, and in his agony he unclasped
his stiffened fingers, determined to resign himself to his fate. At that instant, however,
he saw on the wall of rock that hollowed on his right hand, a red and lurid light, in the midst
of which fantastically bobbed hither and thither the gigantic shadow of a man. He cast his
eyes upwards and saw, slowly descending into the gulf, a blazing bush tied to a rope. McNab
was taking advantage of the pause in the spouting to examine the sides of the Blow-hole.

A despairing hope seized John Rex. In another instant the light would reveal his figure, clinging
like a limpet to the rock, to those above. 

  6. Happy and encouraged with one another notice, signed up new recruits,
  and after having strengthened by the sacrament of Penance and the
  Eucharist, for three or four days, 200 of the town of Santo Angel,
  (because these threaten to the risk of closer) stirred the old
  memories, that few years earlier by the same way, some Portuguese
  had penetrated to his people, who, although ranchers compatriots
  knew now was suspected spy. Also were armed nearly 200 of
  each of the other people, and 100 were the people of Sao
  Tome in the same site by grass, and 60 of the San Lorenzo
  together in the same task, which with neighboring landowners
  of composing an army in nearly 1,200 men.
  
  7.

  While preparing this expedition on Sunday Septuagint, (it
  was early in the morning) one I spoke on behalf of Army captain
  and asked to go with them by a solicitor and spiritual health.
  Excuse me this burden for the well-known slander, which the
  Portuguese and Spanish tend forging Little has as it had taught
  me the experience, however, considering that if any army
  in adolescents way of any serious illness, or prostrate with some
  wound, was to go at once to confess to, if my name, complied,
  to have the true and supreme power of vicarious Christo. Captains
  who had judged themselves that authority, so that no soul is deprived
  of the sacraments, and provided salvation through no fault,
  and thus provided for the expedition, cleaned internal stains of
  sins.
  

  8. Finally, having left their villages to the mountains of yerba
  mate, three days before the closest road, other came from more
  remote parts, but as soon as they heard the sound of the enemy
  had been false, had sent explore, run these all the
  earth, and not having found no trace of enemies, but only a
  few fogoncillos, left of the barbarians, and having found that
  the aforesaid rumor had been spread by cleverly Santo Tome fugitive
  Indians were doing grass is restore them to their own people,
  although it is noted that Portuguese after them confessed that
  200 Paulista the surrounding villages had come, but that view
  the tops of the trees in the crowd of Indians, had retired.
  
  9. The news of taking those twelve cars and no guns confirmed,
  the lie was eventually forgotten, and no confirmation came from the
rooms in San Luis.

  
  
  10.

  May 3rd day afternoon mail came a warning, The soldiers of San
  Luis and San Juan, had rushed to the strong that the Portuguese
  had already made the stakes in the Rio Grande, but his attempt
  went wrong them, because having our men rushed to the dawn of
  the twenty February 3 payment of the Portuguese was already fortified,
  these fled at first, but after having gone on Indians who were
  entertained in the debris, they killed Johannine and shotguns
  à 14 to 12 Luisistas, and forced to away, having died also
  some of the Portuguese. When Indians withdrew, they heard on the
  other hand the fusilazos, and suspected that Lorenzo were in action.
  Este news expected over all, but it is then people spread over
  an unfortunate rumor.
  
  11.

  Also at this time are advised that in the fields of Yapey Spanish
  800 were seen, and having escaped the ranchers, the had seized the
  sheep. It doubted the truth in this case, and the captains of the
  other races came together counsel with the de la Concepcion (who
  was then supreme): But what was agreed, are ignored.
  

  12. Already talked to more foundation of the action of Luisistas,
  five years now, at one end of the San Luis land: between the
  rivers Great, Green, and Yacuí Guacacay, the Portuguese had
  settled in a forest and people had built a sufficient number of
  homes without News of the owners of the land, a short distance
  grazed their cattle, and though he had been often sent to
  explore land, never came to those terms, and by the vastness
  of the territory, and by his innate laziness. Now, finally, in this
  variety of things, having discovered the most vigilant enemy
  that colony, and having explored, 110 Luisistas went to attack,
  and nearly 200 Johannites. Undertaken storming the day
  February 22, the night of 23 came near her, and made its
  appearance at dawn easily put to flight the inhabitants, who were
  unprepared. Having taken over the village, entered houses, and
  took care of the loot, leaving their weapons. Meanwhile the
  enemy had fled, returned on which were busy in looting and without
  arms, and forced them to lease payment again because the
  dew of the night, and Having spent the river to swim, they
  had disabled the guns, no spears can not handle the dense forest.
  Because of the houses taken their weapons, attacked the Indians,
  and forced them to give way to withdraw to the real. Died
  from both sides a few: the Indians 22, among whom was a
  lieutenant of the San Luis (captain courageous Indians) that
  the homeless own and fighting bravely to the last one, was imprisoned
  by the crowd, and having tied his hands, died released by enemies
  who were on him. Of the Portuguese seems that killed 12, leaving
  others slightly injured, and of us were wounded 26. 16 Luisistas
  returned to observe enemy movement and also to bury the dead, even
  if by force. Others retreated to their land and people, waiting
  for new supplies. Also the Luisistas other returned to his
  village, I do not know if shame if fear, or for any mutual dissension.

13.
  Later in the same town enlisted new recruits and perhaps because,
  as prisoners who perished in war homeless were not spiritual physician,
  called for relief of their souls to him who had done the same
  time Lenten mission at the same place. Consented to this to
  so pious prayers, doubts the recharged without remorse
  his own conscience, taking care to his life and soul of those Indians
who were in danger.

  Then he returned to his people are prevented for the road, and
  went to the rooms that are at the foot of the mountain. On March
  3, followed after an armed squad, albeit slowly, in response
  to weakness and fatigue of the donkeys, and formed the field to
  12 April Guacacay rivers, large and small. They crossed the river
  the Masters of San Luis to San Juan near its mouth to tell the
  people of San Miguel, which should come to their aid, because was
  necessary to charge the enemy with many people, since the situation
  was higher and stronger. However, the disagreeing Confederate reduced
  their business and common interest to fight, because these
  from their colony of San Juan, still resentful of the Luisistas,
  by a recent scandal or stumbling, and not have asked and begged
  the alliance for the assault that had done, and now offended by
  the manner in which had convened, the mutually threw sparks of discord.
  Those reproached the same owners of the land have done almost
  all the aforesaid low invasion favorably, have been the first
  who had fled and left in the danger to his companions, and
  thus reused back again to try his luck.
  
  14. Negotiated with each other: these by word, those written to
  be agreed and unite their encouragement and weapons almost
  this cluster of reasons: "That was not civil dissensions time,
  being an enemy stranger à the door to the most often siblings discordant
  for contempt, when more urgent the evil that threatens: that
  were to join forces so that each by itself was not again
  discarded, and a fatal dissension to grow at Victor enemy boldness
  and pride: the arrows one by one are easy to break, but not being
  linked: when burning the house next door, every citizen comes to
the rescue, and so as he burns a house, the whole town would turn
to ashes whether citizens or residents not defend themselves, happened
to them.

  "These and other such things are proposed, and seemed to calm
  things down. He added not a little weight letter arrived from
  the town council of San Juan, which persuaded the union, and obedience
  to them both captains.
  
  15. Expected from Michael, or a squadron assistant, or their
  responses. Also it was said, that Nicole and Conception and
  came: the excuse of not Lorenza have come before yesterday,
  attributing it to the long distance: others were preparing their
  arms, and having been sent some to explore, observe the progress
  and movements of the enemy; asked eagerly came together quickly
  all the legions. While this was said, was advancing towards the
  Rio Grande, to whom the Indians called Igaya, ie bitter.
  
  16. Uruguay River was calm, all things were silence from the Spanish,
  and one large unit war remained a project, nor the winter that
  had already started, allowed otherwise.

  In the recent meeting which had concluded, ambassadors came to
  the Yapeyú, each of the peoples of the other side of Uruguay,
  and also some more remote, the principal chiefs, because as he
  ran the known that the minds of those inhabitants were discordant,
  and that one with the heroes, were inclined to feel the unanimous
  confederation to suppress the enemy, and others with the captain
  of people did not want to take up arms, were there to renew
  and promote the alliance and bring his party to the captain
  yet the people.

  A truth that was hidden the Army, but this Embassy filled with
  joy again and curia or council, joined the heroes with the
  captain, and the people with the heroes, and ported to its
  so beautifully, they returned to their own places, and formed the
  confederation agreed, and together told certainly not seen any enemy,
  and yes only a few thieves and spies, who had been killed and stripped
  of all their mounts.
  
  17. By this time the priest of San Borja, having been called Little
  has by superiors, and having been sent to the Trinidad, it was
  said that had also gone down the Parana to the Spanish cities, and
  that another had been put in Instead, after that first the priest
  of St. Joseph for some time commission and met there a secret pesquiza.
  These things happened at the Spanish border.
  
  18. And back to ours, and to the Portuguese, and approached Michael
  with his captain, that little has be had retired from other
  people, (this was Alexander vice-governor of San Miguel)
  and the certain coming of those the publishing fame, and confirms
  or Sepé testified, one of the most famous captains.

  
  
  19. Meanwhile on the field celebrating Easter with devotion possible,
  and met the ceremonies and rites church, the place and time permitting,
  the Commemoration of Holy Passion of the Lord, while in churches
  solemnly sing Alleluia, there were two parts artillery with
  his guards and custodians.

  Down after the hills, and formed squads under six flags
  had more than 200 men. Saliéronles to meet the Luisistas squads
  with two banners, and greeting mutually, bringing its patron
  saint and other images of saints, (The ones people use to always
  carry it) to a chapel made of palm branches, and having run the
  horses, and made his profession of arms style, went à a nearby camp
site, and camped at the place appointed for the real.

  
  
  20. The next day, which was the Resurrection of the Lord and April
  12, held before the ceremony, (to wit, with Procession and Solemn
  Mass) one of the captains went to the Johannites, which, although
  they were neighbors, they had just arrive, and said that would
  come the next day, that is, third Passover. Miguelistas impatient
  of the delay and stimulated with the old dissensions, reuse
  expected, and were strong in themselves to take the road
  Luisistas towards the enemy.
  
  21. Are encouraged to reason and sacred, political: it is
  namely, being weak forces do not support the agreement: this never
  would have if you were looking for new reasons disagreement,
  that one should not only rely on themselves forces against an enemy
who, although outnumbered, they excelled on the site, the skill of
firearms and experience: they were also empty all the forces men,
and vain the crowd, the Lord of hosts that not protect us stronger,
then there is no hope any victory: that God hates the enmity, that
is drives away with discord, and uranium is sold or placed with dissensions.

  The same preacher began by egemplo its suffering, which had hoped
  for two months, and so wait a day, which had been expected for
  months. Silent masters, and consented to wait until the day
  Easter rearward.
  
  22. The Lorenza back again with their excuses, exposes the weakness
  and fatigue of his horses, and therefore they said, would send
  30 soldiers to help, that they would defend their lands, and
  on the other hand fight with the enemy.

  Seemed frivolous the excuse, because the others had longer paths
  traveled also tired horses, or seemed that we would have had
  to compromise with the animals, while in threatening land.
  And so it did not allow the excuse, and they notice that if it
  took, they guard their homes, and look to the future. Did not
  seem appropriate to wait, because as others were distant and withdrawn,
  were to cause prejudicial delay, or as few people (there were
  about 60) could give much relief to compensate the damage that
  was judged would cause the delay.
  
  23. It was now the day was to reach the Johannine, and still had
  passed, and yet did not seem, however his field was
  far only three or four leagues. Shortly after noon, was the passage
  of San Juan Mayor first vote, which was sent by the council
  and the people, to take the government instead of the real
  Ensign, who sent his detachment, and was the head and leader of the
dissensions, the which had already been made known to those who sent
in people.

  Then the point was dispatched, and was entrusted give haste
  to their own: finally came after some of them of vespers, and was
  received as the day before yesterday, the Miguelistas. But
  he shone in all his bad mood, because came without flags, without
  pomp, and with a mournful silence, and the very soul of the
  war, the drums and trumpets just rang. With that being adjusted
  after vespers, and each gave their advice, and it seemed that all
  conspired to same thing.
  
  24. Then the next day, which was the 17th of April, leaving the
  sun, invoked the Holy Spirit of the Lord Mass solemn, and how that
  allowed the time: there were those who is strengthened by the
  sacrament of penance and communion. Made after signal bonded horses,
  saddled, removed the shops, went to the chapel, and offered to Lord
with prayers and rites that usually these people.

  Finally at the foot of the hill squads were formed, reviewed,
  numbers, and did not appear was full ò met the army because
  they had not yet crossed the river the San Juan squads, and those
  who were there came out of their real, demonstrating their courage
  abated not enough. Those who then were present, seemed to
  reach the number of 200, debiéndose increase to 500
  more, then it all came together. Meanwhile made his way to jubilation,
  à are trumpets and boxes.
  
  25. Chico Guacacay crossed the river at the foot of these mountains,
  night was seven leagues distant from the residence of
  San Borja: The following was past the hills of Arar. Having
  come to this site, went to meet the explorers, the people there
  set a pole and brought by news that the enemy had fortified
  the woods with Fagin and land checkpoints, and that did not pass
  the number of 50 men however just knew that certain thing.
   John Rex dared not crawl too near
the edge, lest he should slide out of the damp and slippery orifice, and be dashed upon the
rocks at the bottom of the Blow-hole. Craning his neck, he could see, a hundred feet below
him, the sullenly frothing water, gurgling, spouting, and creaming, in huge turbid eddies,
occasionally leaping upwards as though it longed for another storm to send it raging up to
the man who had escaped its fury. It was impossible to get down that way. He turned back into
the cavern, and began to explore in that direction. The twin-rocks against which he had been
hurled were, in fact, pillars which supported the roof of the water-drive. Beyond them lay
a great grey shadow which was emptiness, faintly illumined by the sea-light cast up through
the bottom of the gulf. Midway across the grey shadow fell a strange beam of dusky brilliance,
which cast its flickering light upon a wilderness of waving sea-weeds. Even in the desperate
position in which he found himself, there survived in the vagabond's nature sufficient poetry
to make him value the natural marvel upon which he had so strangely stumbled. The immense promontory,
which, viewed from the outside, seemed as solid as a mountain, was in reality but a hollow
cone, reft and split into a thousand fissures by the unsuspected action of the sea for centuries.
The Blow-hole was but an insignificant cranny compared with this enormous chasm. Descending
with difficulty the steep incline, he found himself on the brink of a gallery of rock, which,
jutting out over the pool, bore on its moist and weed-bearded edges signs of frequent submersion.
It must be low tide without the rock. Clinging to the rough and root-like algae that fringed
the ever-moist walls, John Rex crept round the projection of the gallery, and passed at once
from dimness to daylight. There was a broad loop-hole in the side of the honey-combed and wave-perforated
cliff. The cloudless heaven expanded above him; a fresh breeze kissed his cheek and, sixty
feet below him, the sea wrinkled all its lazy length, sparkling in myriad wavelets beneath
the bright beams of morning. Not a sign of the recent tempest marred the exquisite harmony
of the picture. Not a sign of human life gave evidence of the grim neighbourhood of the prison.
From the recess out of which he peered nothing was visible but a sky of turquoise smiling upon
a sea of sapphire.

The placidity of Nature was, however, to the hunted convict a new source of alarm. It was a
reason why the Blow-hole and its neighbourhood should be thoroughly searched. He guessed that
the favourable weather would be an additional inducement to McNab and Burgess to satisfy themselves
as to the fate of their late prisoner. He turned from the opening, and prepared to descend
still farther into the rock pathway. The sunshine had revived and cheered him, and a sort of
instinct told him that the cliff, so honey-combed above, could not be without some gully or
chink at its base, which at low tide would give upon the rocky shore. It grew darker as he
descended, and twice he almost turned back in dread of the gulfs on either side of him. It
seemed to him, also, that the gullet of weed-clad rock through which he was crawling doubled
upon itself, and led only into the bowels of the mountain. Gnawed by hunger, and conscious
that in a few hours at most the rising tide would fill the subterranean passage and cut off
his retreat, he pushed desperately onwards. He had descended some ninety feet, and had lost,
in the devious windings of his downward path, all but the reflection of the light from the
gallery, when he was rewarded by a glimpse of sunshine striking upwards. He parted two enormous
masses of seaweed, whose bubble-headed fronds hung curtainwise across his path, and found himself
in the very middle of the narrow cleft of rock through which the sea was driven to the Blow-hole.

At an immense distance above him was the arch of cliff. Beyond that arch appeared a segment
of the ragged edge of the circular opening, down which he had fallen. He looked in vain for
the funnel-mouth whose friendly shelter had received him. It was now indistinguishable. At
his feet was a long rift in the solid rock, so narrow that he could almost have leapt across
it. This rift was the channel of a swift black current which ran from the sea for fifty yards
under an arch eight feet high, until it broke upon the jagged rocks that lay blistering in
the sunshine at the bottom of the circular opening in the upper cliff. A shudder shook the
limbs of the adventurous convict. He comprehended that at high tide the place where he stood
was under water, and that the narrow cavern became a subaqueous pipe of solid rock forty feet
long, through which were spouted the league-long rollers of the Southern Sea.

The narrow strip of rock at the base of the cliff was as flat as a table. Here and there were
enormous hollows like pans, which the retreating tide had left full of clear, still water.
The crannies of the rock were inhabited by small white crabs, and John Rex found to his delight
that there was on this little shelf abundance of mussels, which, though lean and acrid, were
sufficiently grateful to his famished stomach. Attached to the flat surfaces of the numerous
stones, moreover, were coarse limpets. These, however, John Rex found too salt to be palatable,
and was compelled to reject them. A larger variety, however, having a succulent body as thick
as a man's thumb, contained in long razor-shaped shells, were in some degree free from this
objection, and he soon collected the materials for a meal. Having eaten and sunned himself,
he began to examine the enormous rock, to the base of which he had so strangely penetrated.
Rugged and worn, it raised its huge breast against wind and wave, secure upon a broad pedestal,
which probably extended as far beneath the sea as the massive column itself rose above it.
Rising thus, with its shaggy drapery of seaweed clinging about its knees, it seemed to be a
motionless but sentient being--some monster of the deep, a Titan of the ocean condemned ever
to front in silence the fury of that illimitable and rarely-travelled sea. Yet--silent and
motionless as he was--the hoary ancient gave hint of the mysteries of his revenge. Standing
upon the broad and sea-girt platform where surely no human foot but his had ever stood in life,
the convict saw, many feet above him, pitched into a cavity of the huge sun-blistered boulders,
an object which his sailor eye told him at once was part of the top hamper of some large ship.
Crusted with shells, and its ruin so overrun with the ivy of the ocean that its ropes could
barely be distinguished from the weeds with which they were encumbered, this relic of human
labour attested the triumph of nature over human ingenuity. Perforated below by the relentless
sea, exposed above to the full fury of the tempest; set in solitary defiance to the waves,
that rolling from the ice-volcano of the Southern Pole, hurled their gathered might unchecked
upon its iron front, the great rock drew from its lonely warfare the materials of its own silent
vengeance. Clasped in iron arms, it held its prey, snatched from the jaws of the all-devouring
sea. One might imagine that, when the doomed ship, with her crew of shrieking souls, had splintered
and gone down, the deaf, blind giant had clutched this fragment, upheaved from the seething
waters, with a thrill of savage and terrible joy.

John Rex, gazing up at this memento of a forgotten agony, felt a sensation of the most vulgar
pleasure. "There's wood for my fire!" thought he; and mounting to the spot, he essayed to fling
down the splinters of timber upon the platform. Long exposed to the sun, and flung high above
the water-mark of recent storms, the timber had dried to the condition of touchwood, and would
burn fiercely. It was precisely what he required. Strange accident that had for years stored,
upon a desolate rock, this fragment of a vanished and long-forgotten vessel, that it might
aid at last to warm the limbs of a villain escaping from justice!

Striking the disintegrated mass with his iron-shod heel, John Rex broke off convenient portions;
and making a bag of his shirt by tying the sleeves and neck, he was speedily staggering into
the cavern with a supply of fuel. He made two trips, flinging down the wood on the floor of
the gallery that overlooked the sea, and was returning for a third, when his quick ear caught
the dip of oars. He had barely time to lift the seaweed curtain that veiled the entrance to
the chasm, when the Eaglehawk boat rounded the promontory. Burgess was in the stern-sheets,
and seemed to be making signals to someone on the top of the cliff. Rex, grinning behind his
veil, divined the manoeuvre. McNab and his party were to search above, while the Commandant
examined the gulf below. The boat headed direct for the passage, and for an instant John Rex's
undaunted soul shivered at the thought that, perhaps, after all, his pursuers might be aware
of the existence of the cavern. Yet that was unlikely. He kept his ground, and the boat passed
within a foot of him, gliding silently into the gulf. He observed that Burgess's usually florid
face was pale, and that his left sleeve was cut open, showing a bandage on the arm. There had
been some fighting, then, and it was not unlikely that all his fellow-desperadoes had been
captured! He chuckled at his own ingenuity and good sense. The boat, emerging from the archway,
entered the pool of the Blow-hole, and, held with the full strength of the party, remained
stationary. John Rex watched Burgess scan the rocks and eddies, saw him signal to McNab, and
then, with much relief, beheld the boat's head brought round to the sea-board.

He was so intent upon watching this dangerous and difficult operation that he was oblivious
of an extraordinary change which had taken place in the interior of the cavern. The water which,
an hour ago, had left exposed a long reef of black hummock-rocks, was now spread in one foam-flecked
sheet over the ragged bottom of the rude staircase by which he had descended. The tide had
turned, and the sea, apparently sucked in through some deeper tunnel in the portion of the
cliff which was below water, was being forced into the vault with a rapidity which bid fair
to shortly submerge the mouth of the cave. The convict's feet were already wetted by the incoming
waves, and as he turned for one last look at the boat he saw a green billow heave up against
the entrance to the chasm, and, almost blotting out the daylight, roll majestically through
the arch. It was high time for Burgess to take his departure if he did not wish his whale-boat
to be cracked like a nut against the roof of the tunnel. Alive to his danger, the Commandant
abandoned the search after his late prisoner's corpse, and he hastened to gain the open sea.
The boat, carried backwards and upwards on the bosom of a monstrous wave, narrowly escaped
destruction, and John Rex, climbing to the gallery, saw with much satisfaction the broad back
of his out-witted gaoler disappear round the sheltering promontory. The last efforts of his
pursuers had failed, and in another hour the only accessible entrance to the convict's retreat
was hidden under three feet of furious seawater.

His gaolers were convinced of his death, and would search for him no more. So far, so good.
Now for the last desperate venture--the escape from the wonderful cavern which was at once
his shelter and his prison. Piling his wood together, and succeeding after many efforts, by
the aid of a flint and the ring which yet clung to his ankle, in lighting a fire, and warming
his chilled limbs in its cheering blaze, he set himself to meditate upon his course of action.
He was safe for the present, and the supply of food that the rock afforded was amply sufficient
to sustain life in him for many days, but it was impossible that he could remain for many days
concealed. He had no fresh water, and though, by reason of the soaking he had received, he
had hitherto felt little inconvenience from this cause, the salt and acrid mussels speedily
induced a raging thirst, which he could not alleviate. It was imperative that within forty-eight
hours at farthest he should be on his way to the peninsula. He remembered the little stream
into which--in his flight of the previous night--he had so nearly fallen, and hoped to be able,
under cover of the darkness, to steal round the reef and reach it unobserved. His desperate
scheme was then to commence. He had to run the gauntlet of the dogs and guards, gain the peninsula,
and await the rescuing vessel. He confessed to himself that the chances were terribly against
him. If Gabbett and the others had been recaptured--as he devoutly trusted--the coast would
be comparatively clear; but if they had escaped, he knew Burgess too well to think that he
would give up the chase while hope of re-taking the absconders remained to him. If indeed all
fell out as he had wished, he had still to sustain life until Blunt found him--if haply Blunt
had not returned, wearied with useless and dangerous waiting.

As night came on, and the firelight showed strange shadows waving from the corners of the enormous
vault, while the dismal abysses beneath him murmured and muttered with uncouth and ghastly
utterance, there fell upon the lonely man the terror of Solitude. Was this marvellous hiding-place
that he had discovered to be his sepulchre? Was he--a monster amongst his fellow-men--to die
some monstrous death, entombed in this mysterious and terrible cavern of the sea? He had tried
to drive away these gloomy thoughts by sketching out for himself a plan of action--but in vain.
In vain he strove to picture in its completeness that--as yet vague--design by which he promised
himself to wrest from the vanished son of the wealthy ship-builder his name and heritage. His
mind, filled with forebodings of shadowy horror, could not give the subject the calm consideration
which it needed. In the midst of his schemes for the baffling of the jealous love of the woman
who was to save him, and the getting to England, in shipwrecked and foreign guise, as the long-lost
heir to the fortune of Sir Richard Devine, there arose ghastly and awesome shapes of death
and horror, with whose terrible unsubstantiality he must grapple in the lonely recesses of
that dismal cavern. He heaped fresh wood upon his fire, that the bright light might drive out
the gruesome things that lurked above, below, and around him. He became afraid to look behind
him, lest some shapeless mass of mid-sea birth--some voracious polype, with far-reaching arms
and jellied mouth ever open to devour--might slide up over the edge of the dripping caves below,
and fasten upon him in the darkness. His imagination--always sufficiently vivid, and spurred
to an unnatural effect by the exciting scenes of the previous night--painted each patch of
shadow, clinging bat-like to the humid wall, as some globular sea-spider ready to drop upon
him with its viscid and clay-cold body, and drain out his chilled blood, enfolding him in rough
and hairy arms. Each splash in the water beneath him, each sigh of the multitudinous and melancholy
sea, seemed to prelude the laborious advent of some mis-shapen and ungainly abortion of the
ooze. All the sensations induced by lapping water and regurgitating waves took material shape
and surrounded him. All creatures that could be engendered by slime and salt crept forth into
the firelight to stare at him. Red dabs and splashes that were living beings, having a strange
phosphoric light of their own, glowed upon the floor. The livid encrustations of a hundred
years of humidity slipped from off the walls and painfully heaved their mushroom surfaces to
the blaze. The red glow of the unwonted fire, crimsoning the wet sides of the cavern, seemed
to attract countless blisterous and transparent shapelessnesses, which elongated themselves
towards him. Bloodless and bladdery things ran hither and thither noiselessly. Strange carapaces
crawled from out of the rocks. All the horrible unseen life of the ocean seemed to be rising
up and surrounding him. He retreated to the brink of the gulf, and the glare of the upheld
brand fell upon a rounded hummock, whose coronal of silky weed out-floating in the water looked
like the head of a drowned man. He rushed to the entrance of the gallery, and his shadow, thrown
into the opening, took the shape of an avenging phantom, with arms upraised to warn him back.
The naturalist, the explorer, or the shipwrecked seaman would have found nothing frightful
in this exhibition of the harmless life of the Australian ocean. But the convict's guilty conscience,
long suppressed and derided, asserted itself in this hour when it was alone with Nature and
Night. The bitter intellectual power which had so long supported him succumbed beneath imagination--the
unconscious religion of the soul. If ever he was nigh repentance it was then. Phantoms of his
past crimes gibbered at him, and covering his eyes with his hands, he fell shuddering upon
his knees. The brand, loosening from his grasp, dropped into the gulf, and was extinguished
with a hissing noise. As if the sound had called up some spirit that lurked below, a whisper
ran through the cavern.

"John Rex!" The hair on the convict's flesh stood up, and he cowered to the earth.

"John Rex?"

It was a human voice! Whether of friend or enemy he did not pause to think. His terror over-mastered
all other considerations.

"Here! here!" he cried, and sprang to the opening of the vault.

Arrived at the foot of the cliff, Blunt and Staples found themselves in almost complete darkness,
for the light of the mysterious fire, which had hitherto guided them, had necessarily disappeared.
Calm as was the night, and still as was the ocean, the sea yet ran with silent but dangerous
strength through the channel which led to the Blow-hole; and Blunt, instinctively feeling the
boat drawn towards some unknown peril, held off the shelf of rocks out of reach of the current.
A sudden flash of fire, as from a flourished brand, burst out above them, and floating downwards
through the darkness, in erratic circles, came an atom of burning wood. Surely no one but a
hunted man would lurk in such a savage retreat.

Blunt, in desperate anxiety, determined to risk all upon one venture. "John Rex!" he shouted
up through his rounded hands. The light flashed again at the eye-hole of the mountain, and
on the point above them appeared a wild figure, holding in its hands a burning log, whose fierce
glow illumined a face so contorted by deadly fear and agony of expectation that it was scarce
human.

"Here! here!"

"The poor devil seems half-crazy," said Will Staples, under his breath; and then aloud, "We're
FRIENDS!" A few moments sufficed to explain matters. The terrors which had oppressed John Rex
disappeared in human presence, and the villain's coolness returned. Kneeling on the rock platform,
he held parley.

"It is impossible for me to come down now," he said. "The tide covers the only way out of the
cavern."

"Can't you dive through it?" said Will Staples.

"No, nor you neither," said Rex, shuddering at the thought of trusting himself to that horrible
whirlpool.

"What's to be done? You can't come down that wall." "Wait until morning," returned Rex coolly.
"It will be dead low tide at seven o'clock. You must send a boat at six, or there-abouts. It
will be low enough for me to get out, I dare say, by that time."

"But the Guard?"

"Won't come here, my man. They've got their work to do in watching the Neck and exploring after
my mates. They won't come here. Besides, I'm dead."

"Dead!"

"Thought to be so, which is as well--better for me, perhaps. If they don't see your ship, or
your boat, you're safe enough."

"I don't like to risk it," said Blunt. "It's Life if we're caught."

"It's Death if I'm caught!" returned the other, with a sinister laugh. "But there's no danger
if you are cautious. No one looks for rats in a terrier's kennel, and there's not a station
along the beach from here to Cape Pillar. Take your vessel out of eye-shot of the Neck, bring
the boat up Descent Beach, and the thing's done."

"Well," says Blunt, "I'll try it."

"You wouldn't like to stop here till morning? It is rather lonely," suggested Rex, absolutely
making a jest of his late terrors.

Will Staples laughed. "You're a bold boy!" said he. "We'll come at daybreak."

"Have you got the clothes as I directed?"

"Yes."

"Then good night. I'll put my fire out, in case somebody else might see it, who wouldn't be
as kind as you are."

"Good night."

"Not a word for the Madam," said Staples, when they reached the vessel.

"Not a word, the ungrateful dog," asserted Blunt, adding, with some heat, "That's the way with
women. They'll go through fire and water for a man that doesn't care a snap of his fingers
for 'em; but for any poor fellow who risks his neck to pleasure 'em they've nothing but sneers!
I wish I'd never meddled in the business."

"There are no fools like old fools," thought Will Staples, looking back through the darkness
at the place where the fire had been, but he did not utter his thoughts aloud.

At eight o'clock the next morning the Pretty Mary stood out to sea with every stitch of canvas
set, alow and aloft. The skipper's fishing had come to an end. He had caught a shipwrecked
seaman, who had been brought on board at daylight, and was then at breakfast in the cabin.
The crew winked at each other when the haggard mariner, attired in garments that seemed remarkably
well preserved, mounted the side. But they, none of them, were in a position to controvert
the skipper's statement.

"Where are we bound for?" asked John Rex, smoking Staples's pipe in lingering puffs of delight.
"I'm entirely in your hands, Blunt."

"My orders are to cruise about the whaling grounds until I meet my consort," returned Blunt
sullenly, "and put you aboard her. She'll take you back to Sydney. I'm victualled for a twelve-months'
trip."

"Right!" cried Rex, clapping his preserver on the back. "I'm bound to get to Sydney somehow;
but, as the Philistines are abroad, I may as well tarry in Jericho till my beard be grown.
Don't stare at my Scriptural quotation, Mr. Staples," he added, inspirited by creature comforts,
and secure amid his purchased friends. "I assure you that I've had the very best religious
instruction. Indeed, it is chiefly owing to my worthy spiritual pastor and master that I am
enabled to smoke this very villainous tobacco of yours at the present moment!"

CHAPTER XXVII. THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

It was not until they had scrambled up the beach to safety that the absconders became fully
aware of the loss of another of their companions. As they stood on the break of the beach,
wringing the water from their clothes, Gabbett's small eye, counting their number, missed the
stroke oar.

"Where's Cox?"

"The fool fell overboard," said Jemmy Vetch shortly. "He never had as much sense in that skull
of his as would keep it sound on his shoulders."

Gabbett scowled. "That's three of us gone," he said, in the tones of a man suffering some personal
injury.

They summed up their means of defence against attack. Sanders and Greenhill had knives. Gabbett
still retained the axe in his belt. Vetch had dropped his musket at the Neck, and Bodenham
and Cornelius were unarmed.

"Let's have a look at the tucker," said Vetch.

There was but one bag of provisions. It contained a piece of salt pork, two loaves, and some
uncooked potatoes. Signal Hill station was not rich in edibles.

"That ain't much," said the Crow, with rueful face. "Is it, Gabbett?"

"It must do, any way," returned the giant carelessly.

The inspection over, the six proceeded up the shore, and encamped under the lee of a rock.
Bodenham was for lighting a fire, but Vetch, who, by tacit consent, had been chosen leader
of the expedition, forbade it, saying that the light might betray them. "They'll think we're
drowned, and won't pursue us," he said. So all that night the miserable wretches crouched fireless
together.

Morning breaks clear and bright, and--free for the first time in ten years--they comprehend
that their terrible journey has begun. "Where are we to go? How are we to live?" asked Bodenham,
scanning the barren bush that stretches to the barren sea. "Gabbett, you've been out before--how's
it done?"

"We'll make the shepherds' huts, and live on their tucker till we get a change o' clothes,"
said Gabbett evading the main question. "We can follow the coast-line."

"Steady, lads," said prudent Vetch; "we must sneak round yon sandhills, and so creep into the
scrub. If they've a good glass at the Neck, they can see us."

"It does seem close," said Bodenham; "I could pitch a stone on to the guard-house. Good-bye,
you Bloody Spot!" he adds, with sudden rage, shaking his fist vindictively at the Penitentiary;
"I don't want to see you no more till the Day o' Judgment."

Vetch divides the provisions, and they travel all that day until dark night. The scrub is prickly
and dense. Their clothes are torn, their hands and feet bleeding. Already they feel out-wearied.
No one pursuing, they light a fire, and sleep. The second day they come to a sandy spit that
runs out into the sea, and find that they have got too far to the eastward, and must follow
the shore line to East Bay Neck. Back through the scrub they drag their heavy feet. That night
they eat the last crumb of the loaf. The third day at high noon--after some toilsome walking--they
reach a big hill, now called Collins' Mount, and see the upper link of the earring, the isthmus
of East Bay Neck, at their feet. A few rocks are on their right hand, and blue in the lovely
distance lies hated Maria Island. "We must keep well to the eastward," said Greenhill, "or
we shall fall in with the settlers and get taken." So, passing the isthmus, they strike into
the bush along the shore, and tightening their belts over their gnawing bellies, camp under
some low-lying hills.

The fourth day is notable for the indisposition of Bodenham, who is a bad walker, and, falling
behind, delays the party by frequent cooees. Gabbett threatens him with a worse fate than sore
feet if he lingers. Luckily, that evening Greenhill espies a hut, but, not trusting to the
friendship of the occupant, they wait until he quits it in the morning, and then send Vetch
to forage. Vetch, secretly congratulating himself on having by his counsel prevented violence,
returns bending under half a bag of flour. "You'd better carry the flour," said he to Gabbett,
"and give me the axe." Gabbett eyes him for a while, as if struck by his puny form, but finally
gives the axe to his mate Sanders. That day they creep along cautiously between the sea and
the hills, camping at a creek. Vetch, after much search, finds a handful of berries, and adds
them to the main stock. Half of this handful is eaten at once, the other half reserved for
"to-morrow". The next day they come to an arm of the sea, and as they struggle northward, Maria
Island disappears, and with it all danger from telescopes. That evening they reach the camping
ground by twos and threes; and each wonders between the paroxysms of hunger if his face is
as haggard, and his eyes as bloodshot, as those of his neighbour.

On the seventh day, Bodenham says his feet are so bad he can't walk, and Greenhill, with a
greedy look at the berries, bids him stay behind. Being in a very weak condition, he takes
his companion at his word, and drops off about noon the next day. Gabbett, discovering this
defection, however, goes back, and in an hour or so appears, driving the wretched creature
before him with blows, as a sheep is driven to the shambles. Greenhill remonstrates at another
mouth being thus forced upon the party, but the giant silences him with a hideous glance. Jemmy
Vetch remembers that Greenhill accompanied Gabbett once before, and feels uncomfortable. He
gives hint of his suspicions to Sanders, but Sanders only laughs. It is horribly evident that
there is an understanding among the three.

The ninth sun of their freedom, rising upon sandy and barren hillocks, bristling thick with
cruel scrub, sees the six famine-stricken wretches cursing their God, and yet afraid to die.
All around is the fruitless, shadeless, shelterless bush. Above, the pitiless heaven. In the
distance, the remorseless sea. Something terrible must happen. That grey wilderness, arched
by grey heaven stooping to grey sea, is a fitting keeper of hideous secrets. Vetch suggests
that Oyster Bay cannot be far to the eastward--the line of ocean is deceitfully close--and
though such a proceeding will take them out of their course, they resolve to make for it. After
hobbling five miles, they seem no nearer than before, and, nigh dead with fatigue and starvation,
sink despairingly upon the ground. Vetch thinks Gabbett's eyes have a wolfish glare in them,
and instinctively draws off from him. Said Greenhill, in the course of a dismal conversation,
"I am so weak that I could eat a piece of a man."

On the tenth day Bodenham refuses to stir, and the others, being scarce able to drag along
their limbs, sit on the ground about him. Greenhill, eyeing the prostrate man, said slowly,
"I have seen the same done before, boys, and it tasted like pork."

Vetch, hearing his savage comrade give utterance to a thought all had secretly cherished, speaks
out, crying, "It would be murder to do it, and then, perhaps we couldn't eat it."

"Oh," said Gabbett, with a grin, "I'll warrant you that, but you must all have a hand in it."

Gabbett, Sanders and Greenhill then go aside, and presently Sanders, coming to the Crow, said,
"He consented to act as flogger. He deserves it."

"So did Gabbett, for that matter," shudders Vetch.

"Ay, but Bodenham's feet are sore," said Sanders, "and 'tis a pity to leave him."

Having no fire, they make a little breakwind; and Vetch, half-dozing behind this at about three
in the morning, hears someone cry out "Christ!" and awakes, sweating ice.

No one but Gabbett and Greenhill would eat that night. That savage pair, however, make a fire,
fling ghastly fragments on the embers, and eat the broil before it is right warm. In the morning
the frightful carcase is divided. That day's march takes place in silence, and at midday halt
Cornelius volunteers to carry the billy, affecting great restoration from the food. Vetch gives
it to him, and in half an hour afterwards Cornelius is missing. Gabbett and Greenhill pursue
him in vain, and return with curses. "He'll die like a dog," said Greenhill, "alone in the
bush." Jemmy Vetch, with his intellect acute as ever, thinks that Cornelius may prefer such
a death, but says nothing.

The twelfth morning dawns wet and misty, but Vetch, seeing the provision running short, strives
to be cheerful, telling stories of men who have escaped greater peril. Vetch feels with dismay
that he is the weakest of the party, but has some sort of ludicro-horrible consolation in remembering
that he is also the leanest. They come to a creek that afternoon, and look, until nightfall,
in vain for a crossing-place. The next day Gabbett and Vetch swim across, and Vetch directs
Gabbett to cut a long sapling, which, being stretched across the water, is seized by Greenhill
and the Moocher, who are dragged over.

"What would you do without me?" said the Crow with a ghastly grin.

They cannot kindle a fire, for Greenhill, who carries the tinder, has allowed it to get wet.
The giant swings his axe in savage anger at enforced cold, and Vetch takes an opportunity to
remark privately to him what a big man Greenhill is.

On the fourteenth day they can scarcely crawl, and their limbs pain them. Greenhill, who is
the weakest, sees Gabbett and the Moocher go aside to consult, and crawling to the Crow, whimpers:
"For God's sake, Jemmy, don't let 'em murder me!"

"I can't help you," says Vetch, looking about in terror. "Think of poor Tom Bodenham."

"But he was no murderer. If they kill me, I shall go to hell with Tom's blood on my soul."
He writhes on the ground in sickening terror, and Gabbett arriving, bids Vetch bring wood for
the fire. Vetch, going, sees Greenhill clinging to wolfish Gabbett's knees, and Sanders calls
after him, "You will hear it presently, Jem."

The nervous Crow puts his hand to his ears, but is conscious of a dull crash and a groan. When
he comes back, Gabbett is putting on the dead man's shoes, which are better than his own.

"We'll stop here a day or so and rest," said he, "now we've got provisions."

Two more days pass, and the three, eyeing each other suspiciously, resume their march. The
third day--the sixteenth of their awful journey--such portions of the carcase as they have
with them prove unfit to eat. They look into each other's famine-sharpened faces, and wonder
"who's next?"

"We must all die together," said Sanders quickly, "before anything else must happen."

Vetch marks the terror concealed in the words, and when the dreaded giant is out of earshot,
says, "For God's sake, let's go on alone, Alick. You see what sort of a cove that Gabbett is--he'd
kill his father before he'd fast one day."

They made for the bush, but the giant turned and strode towards them. Vetch skipped nimbly
on one side, but Gabbett struck the Moocher on the forehead with the axe. "Help! Jem, help!"
cried the victim, cut, but not fatally, and in the strength of his desperation tore the axe
from the monster who bore it, and flung it to Vetch. "Keep it, Jemmy," he cried; "let's have
no more murder done!"

They fare again through the horrible bush until nightfall, when Vetch, in a strange voice,
called the giant to him.

"He must die."

"Either you or he," laughs Gabbett. "Give me the axe."

"No, no," said the Crow, his thin, malignant face distorted by a horrible resolution. "I'll
keep the axe. Stand back! You shall hold him, and I'll do the job."

Sanders, seeing them approach, knew his end was come, and submitted, crying, "Give me half
an hour to pray for myself." They consent, and the bewildered wretch knelt down and folded
his hands like a child. His big, stupid face worked with emotion. His great cracked lips moved
in desperate agony. He wagged his head from side to side, in pitiful confusion of his brutalized
senses. "I can't think o' the words, Jem!"

"Pah," snarled the cripple, swinging the axe, "we can't starve here all night."

Four days had passed, and the two survivors of this awful journey sat watching each other.
The gaunt giant, his eyes gleaming with hate and hunger, sat sentinel over the dwarf. The dwarf,
chuckling at his superior sagacity, clutched the fatal axe. For two days they had not spoken
to each other. For two days each had promised himself that on the next his companion must sleep--and
die. Vetch comprehended the devilish scheme of the monster who had entrapped five of his fellow-beings
to aid him by their deaths to his own safety, and held aloof. Gabbett watched to snatch the
weapon from his companion, and make the odds even once and for ever. In the day-time they travelled
on, seeking each a pretext to creep behind the other. In the night-time when they feigned slumber,
each stealthily raising a head caught the wakeful glance of his companion. Vetch felt his strength
deserting him, and his brain overpowered by fatigue. Surely the giant, muttering, gesticulating,
and slavering at the mouth, was on the road to madness. Would the monster find opportunity
to rush at him, and, braving the blood-stained axe, kill him by main force? or would he sleep,
and be himself a victim? Unhappy Vetch! It is the terrible privilege of insanity to be sleepless.

On the fifth day, Vetch, creeping behind a tree, takes off his belt, and makes a noose. He
will hang himself. He gets one end of the belt over a bough, and then his cowardice bids him
pause. Gabbett approaches; he tries to evade him, and steal away into the bush. In vain. The
insatiable giant, ravenous with famine, and sustained by madness, is not to be shaken off.
Vetch tries to run, but his legs bend under him. The axe that has tried to drink so much blood
feels heavy as lead. He will fling it away. No--he dares not. Night falls again. He must rest,
or go mad. His limbs are powerless. His eyelids are glued together. He sleeps as he stands.
This horrible thing must be a dream. He is at Port Arthur, or will wake on his pallet in the
penny lodging-house he slept at when a boy. Is that the Deputy come to wake him to the torment
of living? It is not time--surely not time yet. He sleeps--and the giant, grinning with ferocious
joy, approaches on clumsy tiptoe and seizes the coveted axe.

On the north coast of Van Diemen's Land is a place called St Helen's Point, and a certain skipper,
being in want of fresh water; landing there with a boat's crew, found on the banks of the creek
a gaunt and blood-stained man, clad in tattered yellow, who carried on his back an axe and
a bundle. When the sailors came within sight of him, he made signs to them to approach, and,
opening his bundle with much ceremony, offered them some of its contents. Filled with horror
at what the maniac displayed, they seized and bound him. At Hobart Town he was recognized as
the only survivor of the nine desperadoes who had escaped from Colonel Arthur's "Natural Penitentiary".

END OF BOOK THE THIRD

BOOK IV.--NORFOLK ISLAND. 1846.

CHAPTER I. EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH.

Bathurst, February 11th, 1846.

In turning over the pages of my journal, to note the good fortune that has just happened to
me, I am struck by the utter desolation of my life for the last seven years.

Can it be possible that I, James North, the college-hero, the poet, the prizeman, the Heaven
knows what else, have been content to live on at this dreary spot--an animal, eating and drinking,
for tomorrow I die? Yet it has been so. My world, that world of which I once dreamt so much,
has been--here. My fame--which was to reach the ends of the earth--has penetrated to the neighbouring
stations. I am considered a "good preacher" by my sheep-feeding friends. It is kind of them.

Yet, on the eve of leaving it, I confess that this solitary life has not been without its charms.
I have had my books and my thoughts--though at times the latter were but grim companions. I
have striven with my familiar sin, and have not always been worsted. Melancholy reflection.
"Not always!" "But yet" is as a gaoler to bring forth some monstrous malefactor. I vowed, however,
that I would not cheat myself in this diary of mine, and I will not. No evasions, no glossings
over of my own sins. This journal is my confessor, and I bare my heart to it.

It is curious the pleasure I feel in setting down here in black and white these agonies and
secret cravings of which I dare not speak. It is for the same reason, I suppose, that murderers
make confession to dogs and cats, that people with something "on their mind" are given to thinking
aloud, that the queen of Midas must needs whisper to the sedges the secret of her husband's
infirmity. Outwardly I am a man of God, pious and grave and softly spoken. Inwardly--what?
The mean, cowardly, weak sinner that this book knows me...Imp! I could tear you in pieces!...One
of these days I will. In the meantime, I will keep you under lock and key, and you shall hug
my secrets close. No, old friend, with whom I have communed so long, forgive me, forgive me.
You are to me instead of wife or priest.

I tell to your cold blue pages--how much was it I bought you for in Parramatta, rascal?--these
stories, longings, remorses, which I would fain tell to human ear could I find a human being
as discreet as thou. It has been said that a man dare not write all his thoughts and deeds;
the words would blister the paper. Yet your sheets are smooth enough, you fat rogue! Our neighbours
of Rome know human nature. A man must confess. One reads of wretches who have carried secrets
in their bosoms for years, and blurted them forth at last. I, shut up here without companionship,
without sympathy, without letters, cannot lock up my soul, and feed on my own thoughts. They
will out, and so I whisper them to thee.

What art thou, thou tremendous power Who dost inhabit us without our leave, And art, within
ourselves, another self, A master self that loves to domineer?

What? Conscience? That is a word to frighten children. The conscience of each man is of his
own making. My friend the shark-toothed cannibal whom Staples brought in his whaler to Sydney
would have found his conscience reproach him sorely did he refuse to partake of the feasts
made sacred by the customs of his ancestors. A spark of divinity? The divinity that, according
to received doctrine; sits apart, enthroned amid sweet music, and leaves poor humanity to earn
its condemnation as it may? I'll have none of that--though I preach it. One must soothe the
vulgar senses of the people. Priesthood has its "pious frauds". The Master spoke in parables.
Wit? The wit that sees how ill-balanced are our actions and our aspirations? The devilish wit
born of our own brain, that sneers at us for our own failings? Perhaps madness? More likely,
for there are few men who are not mad one hour of the waking twelve. If differing from the
judgment of the majority of mankind in regard to familiar things be madness, I suppose I am
mad--or too wise. The speculation draws near to hair-splitting. James North, recall your early
recklessness, your ruin, and your redemption; bring your mind back to earth. Circumstances
have made you what you are, and will shape your destiny for you without your interference.
That's comfortably settled!

Now supposing--to take another canter on my night-mare--that man is the slave of circumstances
(a doctrine which I am inclined to believe, though unwilling to confess); what circumstance
can have brought about the sudden awakening of the powers that be to James North's fitness
for duty?

HOBART TOWN, Jan. 12th.

"DEAR NORTH,--I have much pleasure in informing you that you can be appointed Protestant chaplain
at Norfolk Island, if you like. It seems that they did not get on well with the last man, and
when my advice was asked, I at once recommended you for the office. The pay is small, but you
have a house and so on. It is certainly better than Bathurst, and indeed is considered rather
a prize in the clerical lottery.

"There is to be an investigation into affairs down there. Poor old Pratt--who went down, as
you know, at the earnest solicitation of the Government--seems to have become absurdly lenient
with the prisoners, and it is reported that the island is in a frightful state. Sir Eardley
is looking out for some disciplinarian to take the place in hand.

"In the meantime, the chaplaincy is vacant, and I thought of you."

I must consider this seeming good fortune further.

February 19th.--I accept. There is work to be done among those unhappy men that may be my purgation.
The authorities shall hear me yet--though inquiry was stifled at Port Arthur. By the way, a
Pharaoh had arisen who knows not Joseph. It is evident that the meddlesome parson, who complained
of men being flogged to death, is forgotten, as the men are! How many ghosts must haunt the
dismal loneliness of that prison shore! Poor Burgess is gone the way of all flesh. I wonder
if his spirit revisits the scenes of its violences? I have written "poor" Burgess.

It is strange how we pity a man gone out of this life. Enmity is extinguished when one can
but remember injuries. If a man had injured me, the fact of his living at all would be sufficient
grounds for me to hate him; if I had injured him, I should hate him still more. Is that the
reason I hate myself at times--my greatest enemy, and one whom I have injured beyond forgiveness?
There are offences against one's own nature that are not to be forgiven. Isn't it Tacitus who
says "the hatred of those most nearly related is most inveterate"? But--I am taking flight again.

February 27th, 11.30 p.m.--Nine Creeks Station. I do like to be accurate in names, dates, etc.
Accuracy is a virtue. To exercise it, then. Station ninety miles from Bathurst. I should say
about 4,000 head of cattle. Luxury without refinement. Plenty to eat, drink, and read. Hostess's
name--Carr. She is a well-preserved creature, about thirty-four years of age, and a clever
woman--not in a poetical sense, but in the widest worldly acceptation of the term. At the same
time, I should be sorry to be her husband. Women have no business with a brain like hers--that
is, if they wish to be women and not sexual monsters. Mrs. Carr is not a lady, though she might
have been one. I don't think she is a good woman either. It is possible, indeed, that she has
known the factory before now. There is a mystery about her, for I was informed that she was
a Mrs. Purfoy, the widow of a whaling captain, and had married one of her assigned servants,
who had deserted her five years ago, as soon as he obtained his freedom. A word or two at dinner
set me thinking. She had received some English papers, and, accounting for her pre-occupied
manner, grimly said, "I think I have news of my husband." I should not like to be in Carr's
shoes if she has news of him! I don't think she would suffer indignity calmly. After all, what
business is it of mine? I was beguiled into taking more wine at dinner than I needed. Confessor,
do you hear me? But I will not allow myself to be carried away. You grin, you fat Familiar!
So may I, but I shall be eaten with remorse tomorrow.

March 3rd.--A place called Jerrilang, where I have a head and heartache.

March 20th.--Sydney. At Captain Frere's.--Seventeen days since I have opened you, beloved and
detested companion of mine. I have more than half a mind to never open you again! To read you
is to recall to myself all I would most willingly forget; yet not to read you would be to forget
all that which I should for my sins remember.

The last week has made a new man of me. I am no longer morose, despairing, and bitter, but
genial, and on good terms with fortune. It is strange that accident should have induced me
to stay a week under the same roof with that vision of brightness which has haunted me so long.
A meeting in the street, an introduction, an invitation--the thing is done.

The circumstances which form our fortunes are certainly curious things. I had thought never
again to meet the bright young face to which I felt so strange an attraction--and lo! here
it is smiling on me daily. Captain Frere should be a happy man. Yet there is a skeleton in
this house also. That young wife, by nature so lovable and so mirthful, ought not to have the
sadness on her face that twice to-day has clouded it. He seems a passionate and boorish creature,
this wonderful convict disciplinarian. His convicts--poor devils--are doubtless disciplined
enough. Charming little Sylvia, with your quaint wit and weird beauty, he is not good enough
for you--and yet it was a love match.

March 21st.--I have read family prayers every night since I have been here--my black coat and
white tie gave me the natural pre-eminence in such matters--and I feel guilty every time I
read. I wonder what the little lady of the devotional eyes would say if she knew that I am
a miserable hypocrite, preaching that which I do not practise, exhorting others to believe
those marvels which I do not believe? I am a coward not to throw off the saintly mask, and
appear as a Freethinker. Yet, am I a coward? I urge upon myself that it is for the glory of
God I hold my peace. The scandal of a priest turned infidel would do more harm than the reign
of reason would do good. Imagine this trustful woman for instance--she would suffer anguish
at the thoughts of such a sin, though another were the sinner. "If anyone offend one of these
little ones it were better for him that a millstone be hanged about his neck and that he be
cast into the sea." Yet truth is truth, and should be spoken--should it not, malignant monitor,
who remindest me how often I fail to speak it? Surely among all his army of black-coats our
worthy Bishop must have some men like me, who cannot bring their reason to believe in things
contrary to the experience of mankind and the laws of nature.

March 22nd.--This unromantic Captain Frere had had some romantic incidents in his life, and
he is fond of dilating upon them. It seems that in early life he expected to have been left
a large fortune by an uncle who had quarrelled with his heir. But the uncle dies on the day
fixed for the altering of the will, the son disappears, and is thought to be drowned. The widow,
however, steadfastly refuses to believe in any report of the young man's death, and having
a life-interest in the property, holds it against all comers. My poor host in consequence comes
out here on his pay, and, three years ago, just as he is hoping that the death of his aunt
may give him opportunity to enforce a claim as next of kin to some portion of the property,
the long-lost son returns, is recognized by his mother and the trustees, and installed in due
heirship! The other romantic story is connected with Frere's marriage. He told me after dinner
to-night how his wife had been wrecked when a child, and how he had saved her life, and defended
her from the rude hands of an escaped convict--one of the monsters our monstrous system breeds.
"That was how we fell in love," said he, tossing off his wine complacently.

"An auspicious opportunity," said I. To which he nodded. He is not overburdened with brains,
I fancy. Let me see if I can set down some account of this lovely place and its people.

A long low white house, surrounded by a blooming garden. Wide windows opening on a lawn. The
ever glorious, ever changing sea beneath. It is evening. I am talking with Mrs. Frere, of theories
of social reform, of picture galleries, of sunsets, and new books. The first was executed Gotthard
Arthus was whose version inserted 7.ma De Bry in part. of its large collection of voyages: and so
imperfect Hulsio seemed to Levin when confronted with the original, it was decided to undertake
another translation, which appeared in Nuremberg in 1599, adding the portrait of author, with
several sheets of fruits and animals of Paraguay, and two maps, one of America the north and
the other from the south, although incorrect, are not without some merit for the time they
occurred.

Of these versions is worth D. Gabriel Cardenas to the epitome he published
in 1731, and Barcia reproduced in the third volume of his early history
of the West Indies.

Although the notes and index that accompanied it, did not illustrate it, and only may get to
see the text, which would have done if we had found.

But of all the works dealing with the conquest of the Rio de la Plata, is that of Schmidel the rarest,
most can be taken by irreperible.

To get any benefit from our reprints, we have emended some words whose mistake was clear: as, for example,
by Charrúas Zechurvas; Carendi by Querandís; Aigais by Agac; Salvascho by Salazar, Luchs by
Lujan, Richkel for Riquelme; Daber by Tabaré; Gratia Amiego by Vanessa Garcia; palmela for halibut,
thistles and evening, for thistles and darts, etc..: - and we multiplied these corrections if
we had stopped the fear of tangling over the text of a writer whose
diary is the first monument of our history, and the only source they
should drink proposing to continue the first steps of the Europeans
in these remote regions.

Schmidel judgments sometimes resent the spirit that prevailed then in the conquerors all divided
into factions and biases, and failure to pronounce on the conduct of Governor Cabeza de Vaca, illustrious
name in the annals of conquest, disagree with the facts to us by other contemporary historians.
But regardless of these moles, prudent that every reader can discern, deserve credit data has been
collected, and only the mention that makes so many places, tribes,
customs and events, has been preserved of forgetting, which has swallowed
up many other memories.

Whether you were endowed with an imagination more temperate or more
mature trial, is that distrust what others said, is ciñeae refer to
what he himself observed, it is true that he be considered the most
circumspect writer of his time.

German language, that he used to write your notes, and Latin in which they were reproduced,
were the most apropos to generalize, so for nearly two centuries were ignored. Also contributed
to this neglect the little case that made the Spanish of their establishments in countries
devoid of mine: the exploitation was long the object exclusive of the administration of its colonies,
and so general was the prestige egercian in the public these rich
products, perverted to the trial of historians, whose admiration focused
on the conquerors of Peru and Mexico.

However, neither were lower risk, and no less heroic sacrifices of those who invaded the other
parts of America, and to ponder what it cost the occupation of Paraguay,
just Schmidel to follow the rapid but masterly look that gives over
twenty years he spent in the New World, surrounded by people of a
wild and savage nature.

Overworked, sought and obtained permission to return to his homeland, and escorted by twenty
Indians decay, or Guarani, only fruit of his long pilgrimage in America, crossed the Guaira,
to arrive soon to San Vicente, where he hoped to find a ship to Europe. This way, no more footprints
preserved, Cabeza de Vaca, about being impraticable by the rough terrain, was guarded by swarms
of savages that are nested in their lengthy and impenetrable forests. Entire villages came out
to dispute the passage, and to all put up a brave resistance, seconded by his faithful companions,
in spite of being Indian defended a European.

Finally reached the end of his journey sighed, and sat in Portuguese ship that brought him
to Lisbon.

Commissioned by the Governor Martinez de Irala to put in the hands of the king a detailed part
major occurrences of his administration, he went to Seville, where he was that time the Emperor
Charles V, and the audience gave him that sovereign, he said verbally
more news to those which contained the report of Irala.

This document is very important for the history of our provinces, if not lost in the hands
of the King, should be in Sevilla or Simancas, in the jumble of papers
piled on file.

Freed Schmidel all its commitments, he sailed for Antwerp, where it
was restored the bosom of his family after twenty years of absence.

PEDRO DE ANGELIS.

Buenos Aires, September 16, 1836.

Voyage to RIO DE LA PLATA.

CHAPTER I.

Of navigation of Antwerp to Spain.

The year of 1534, I left Antwerp sailed for Spain, arrived at Cadiz in 14 days, sailing 480 miles,
and saw a whale off the coast of 35 steps, which filled 30 barrels oil. There was in the port 14
large vessels prevented to go to Rio de la Plata, Spanish 2.500 and 150 German, Flemish and
Saxon, with its Captain General, D. Pedro de Mendoza, and 72 horses é mares. One of these ships
was Noarto and James Belzar Sebastian, that Henry was Peyne, the factor, with goods to the Rio
de la Plata, in which I embarked with about 80 Germans and Flemish, well armed. The day we left the
port of San Bartolomé, 1534, with the army, and arrived at San Lucar, which is 20 miles from Seville,
where we stopped by the stormy the sea.

CHAPTER II.

Of navigation from Spain to the Canaries.

A first of September, quiet time, we left San Lucar, and reached three islands far between, called
Tenerife, Gomera and Palma, are far from San Lucar 200 leagues [1]; abundant sugar, divided
the army there. Inhabit these islands with their Spanish wives and children, and are the domain
of the King.

Spent four weeks with three ships in the Palma providing us with victuals, until orders came
from D. Pedro de Mendoza to continue journey. Our ship was a relative of D. Peter, called D. Jorge
Mendoza, who had fallen in love the daughter of a neighbor of the Palm: the last day for having
weighed anchor, went ashore D. Jorge with twelve companions, about twelve o'clock at night, and stole,
bringing to the ship with a maid, her dresses, jewels and money and
secretly brought it into our ship, without the captain Enrique Peyne
know anything.

Only the guards warned him that it had seen.

We started to sail in the morning, and at two or three leagues of journey, time went so hard we went
back to the harbor and cast anchor. Enrique Peyne was in the boat ashore, and wanting take it,
he saw 30 men armed with guns and swords, they wanted to arrest him, and knowing his crew urged him
to not come out to the ground.

He tried to go in hurry, but less than he wanted, because navichuelos
followed him into the ground and threatened.

At last they got rid of another ship closer to land.

Displaying the Canaries could not catch him, they play to challenge, and trageron two shots, which
fired four times against the nearest ship. The first broke up a pot of water, arrobas four or
five, the second broke the last tree on the ship and the third was a large hole in the side, killing
a man, and even missed the fourth, was very badly treated the ship.

Was anchored in the harbor another captain who was to Mexico, and he ground with 150 men: which,
having learned the robbery of the wife, sought peace between us and the city that were given D. Jorge
de Mendoza, the daughter and the maid, and having entered the master Peyne and the governor
of the island in our ship to the agreement egecutar, D. Jorge said, that this was his wife, and her
that her husband and to the point were married with great pain and sadness the girl's father.

CHAPTER III.

Of navigation from palm to Green Island or Hesperides, which also
call for Cape Verde.

Captain Don left Jorge on the ground with his wife, and repaired the ship as he could, sail to
the island of Santiago, sugeta the King of Portugal, who obey blacks, and far from the Palma 200 leagues.
There were five days, and provide new our ship of bread, meat, water and other food, and necessities
to the sailors.

CHAPTER IV.

Of navigation from Green Island to Brazil.

They returned to join the 14 ships of any navy, and began to sail,
and after two months came to an uninhabited island six miles wide
and long, distant 500 miles from Santiago, [2] they only had birds,
but so many, that we killed sticks: we were in it three days.

There is in this sea flying fish, whales and others that are called
Schunbhut, [3] by a large circle that is about the head with that
much damage to fish with whom Fight: is big fish, a lot of strength,
and easily irritated.

There is also this sea swordfish, which have in the way to muzzle a bone knife, saw fish, which have manner
of a saw and several other major genres.

CHAPTER V.

Del Rio called Janero.

We arrived at a certain island named after Rio Janero, where the French settled in the year of 1555
(Then and now, the King of Portugal). Far from the first 200 miles: call to his Indian Sliding.
Here were 14 days, and then our General, D. Pedro de Mendoza, being
continuously sick, shriveled and weak nerves, appointed by his lieutenant
to John Osorio, [4] his brother.

But shortly after accepting the position, was accused of rebellion
against Mendoza by which, ordered four captains, who were: Juan de
Oyola, Juan Salazar, Jorge Lujan and Lazaro Salazar, stab and kill
him to save him at the plaza, so that all might see him dead a traitor,
and published side with death, that no one gets excited because of
Osorio, because the same thing would happen to him.

In which it was conducted without good cause, because Osorio was
good, honest, strong soldier, informal, liberal and very beloved by
his peers.

CHAPTER VI.

Del Rio de la Plata or Paraná, the port of San Gabriel and Charrúas.

From here we set out to find the Rio de la Plata [5], and we reached another river, sweet,
called Paraná-wolf: far east of the mouth that falls into the sea, and is 42 miles wide. From
the Rio Janero to him there are 215 leagues.

Here we arrive at the port of San Gabriel, the 14 ships anchored in the Parana River, and
because they were distant shot bullet sent the General D. Pedro de Mendoza, saliésemos that soldiers
and other people on shore, in boats prevented this effect. So we happily to the Rio de la Plata
in 1535, and found there an Indian village of which 2.000 had called
Charrúas, which have no more food than hunting and fishing, and walk
all naked.

The women bring only thin cotton cloth from the waist to the knees.

All fled when they saw us, with their wives and children, and we
were to embark sent Mendoza to move to the other side of the river,
there had not more than eight miles wide.

CHAPTER VII.

In the city of Buenos Aires and Indians Querandíes.

On this site we did a city, we call Buenos Aires, [6] as healthy there were those who ran. We
find in this land of nearly 3,000 other Indian people called Querandíes, with their wives and children
who walk as Charrúas: they brought us meat and fish. These Querandíes no fixed abode; roam the
earth as Gypsies. When you walk in summer (usually more than 30 leagues), but are water, or the
root of thistles, but food quenches thirst, kill the deer or the wild animal they encounter,
and drink the blood, and it did, perhaps die of thirst. Fourteen days brought real fish and meat,
and because they missed one Mendoza sent to Ruiz Galan, judge, and two other soldiers to them
(who were four leagues). But the Indians were mistreated and returned to the camp with three
wounded.

Mendoza seeing this, and that Galan was maintained with people, sent
his brother, D. Diego Mendoza, with 300 soldiers and 30 good horses
(among whom was I) command, that taking the people of the Indians,
kindle or kill them all.

But when we already had 4.000 Indians from their friends and family, life.

CHAPTER VIII.

In the battle with the Indians Querandíes.

Wanting to run them down, we resisted, fighting so fiercely that killed Don Diego de Mendoza, 6
knights, and to about 20 soldiers on foot and horseback. Indians nearly 1,000 died. They fought
hard and courageously with their bows and arrows, gender lancilla, half way to lance with sharp
flint, and three points as trisulco. They have balls of stone, tied to a long string, like our
artillery [7]: échanlas at the feet of the horses (or of the deer
when hunting), until they fell, and with these balls they killed our
captain and the gentlemen referred to, and to the footmen, with their
darts, which I saw.

But, despite his resistance, and we beat his people, taken alive
were unsuccessful but none, not even women and children, because once
it's had taken to another place.

In the village we found the skins of otters, a lot of fish, flour
and butter fish.

Detuvímonos three days into it, and returned to camp, leaving behind a hundred men, which
the interim fish with nets to supply the Indian people, because those waters are wonderfully
abundant fish. Distributed food, to every one, three ounces flour, and every three days, a fish,
and if I wanted more, had to go fishing four leagues there: this fishery lasted two months.

CHAPTER
IX.

Of the population of Buenos Aires, and hunger that is suffering.

Returned to our camp was divided people to the work of the city and
the war, applying each to craft appropriate.

Began to build the city and up to around a ground near three feet
wide, and a spear high, but what was done today fell morning, and
within it a strong house for the governor.

All were suffering so much misery many were dying of hunger, nor were enough to remedy the horses.
Increased this anxiety have already missed the cats, mice, snakes and other little creatures
that they used to tune it unclean, and ate up the shoe and other leather. It was then ate three
Spanish a horse which had secretly stolen, and having known, confessed tormented the theft,
and were hanged, and at night were three Spanish, and cut off the thighs and other pieces of
meat, not to starve. Another Spanish, having a brother who died him, he ate. [8]

CHAPTER X.

The navigation of some of the Rio la Plata above.

Displaying the Governor that people could not stay there, he had put together four brigs with
40 men each, and three boats or boats, and gather the people and to Jorge Lujan, 350 men to
ascend up the river to reconnoiter the Indians and find supplies. But the Indians felt ourselves,
with their villages burned all the food and how could serve as a
relief, and fled, but Buenos Aires drinks at a little, which we distributed
to half ounces of bread ration, but as it was so short, half starved
people in this journey.

He was surprised General to see so few people, until he knew the
reasons referrals told Jorge Lujan.

CHAPTER XI.

Site, taking and burning the city of Buenos Aires.

We were together for a month in Buenos Aires, in great need, waiting
for the ships were prevented: intermediate in which the city were
put on brave 23.000 Indians, whose numbers composing Querandíes the
four nations, Bartenes, Charrúas and Timbúes, with the intention of
finishing.

A envistieron to the city to enter it, others threw lighted cane
arrows on houses, whose roofs were covered with straw, except the
General was of stone, and managed to burn the city entirely.

Fired the arrows, begins to fire for the tip, and thrown on and not
go off, burn their houses before they paste, and scorch whatever they
touch.

We also burned in this function the Indians four large vessels, which were at sea half a league
from the port, and people from them, seeing the great multitude of Indians, passed to three
others were not far, and were supplied with mortars. Previniéronse to the defense, and watching burn
the four ships, fired many bullets against Indians would burn, that fearing the violence of
the shot, retreated, leaving quietly to the Christians, of whom died, in these trances, an ensign and
thirty more. This happened the day of San Juan Evangelista, 1535.

CHAPTER XII.

Becometh review of people, and ships are made to move forward.

After the above, everyone got on the ships, and D. Come Pedro de Mendoza named by Captain Juan de
Oyola general, the universal government of the people.

Reviewed, and only found Spanish 560, of 2500 who had left Spain,
the others had died, and most of hunger.

Oyola sent promptly produce eight brigs and some boats, leaving 160 Spanish in the custody
of the four large vessels, and their captain to John Romero, a quadroon ration of bread for a year,
and that if they wished, they seek him, he sailed with 400 men.

CHAPTER XIII.

As went sailing the Parana River Plate, with 400 soldiers.

Juan Oyola led to the 400 soldiers of the Adelantado D. Pedro de Mendoza: sailed in launches
and small boats up the river Parana, and at two months, at a distance of 84 leagues, we came
across Indian towns, which met four leagues we arrived: llámanlos Timbúes, and we Buena Esperanza.
Peace came about 400, who inhabit a island in canoes, each one will fit 16 Indians, and received
us very well. D. Pedro de Mendoza the chief gave the Indians called Chera-wolf, a shirt, a red
cap, a sickle and other things, that took them willingly and took us to his village, and gave
us plenty of hunting and fishing, we received great joy, because if the journey had lasted
ten days, we had all starved, as had happened to 50 of the board. These Indians Timbúes bring,
on both sides of the nose, a star stone inlaid white and blue are
large and high, the Indian women, girls and old, hideous, bloody wounds
and faces, and naked, except cotton cloth that covers from the waist
to the knees.

They have these people, nor have they ever had another meal that
hunting and fishing will be 15.000 or more Indian warriors.

Its tree canoes are 80 feet long and three wide, and sailing, rowing
(no mistake) fishermen mode of Germany.

CHAPTER XIV.

Returning to Spain D. Pedro de Mendoza, died on the voyage.

Four years were in that town, but our Head D. Pedro de Mendoza [9], was so sick that he could
not move hand or foot: so, as well as having spent more than 40.000 ducats effective on this day, he
returned to Buenos Aires in two of the four brigs, with 50 soldiers, and from there to Spain,
where they arrived, having died miserably to halfway, and ordered in his will more people be sent to
Rio de la Plata, with supplies, merchandise and other necessities,
as he had given before leaving.

And having reached to Spain, two brigs, the King's ministers sent
two boatloads of people, with others who had provided.

CHAPTER XV.
Alonso Cabrera is sent from Spain to Rio de la Plata.

Was as captain
of these two ships Alonso Cabrera, [10] who brought 200 Spanish and
supplies for two years. Came to Buenos Aires, where 100 men were still
the year that we 1539. Went to the island after the Timbúes, arranged
with John Oyola dispatched a ship Spain, according to the order who
brought the Council of the Indies, with copious relationship quality
of these lands and peoples, their people and other circumstances.
John stood in line Oyola with Alonso Cabrera, Domingo Martinez de
Irala and the other captains, to pass shown, and was found to have
550 soldiers, including those who had come again, resolved to leave
150 in Thimphu, (because there was no room on the ships), and its
captain and governor to Charles Dubrin, who had been page of the King.

CHAPTER
XVI.

To continue the voyage up the Parana river, towards Coronda.

In
eight brigs put the remaining 400 men, and left the port of Good Hope
Paraná river above: we another river, called Paraguay, we had news,
and whose Indian banks were populated Carias, with plenty of corn,
apples and root (that they made wine), fish, beef, sheep, as large
as mules, deer, pigs, ostriches, chickens and geese, which will be
discussed in chap. 20. Having sailed four leagues, we the first day
to the nation Coronda. His Indians are high, and bring about a nose
pebbles, and the women walk as those mentioned above. Are similar
to Thimphu and inhabit these islands to 12.000 of War: mantiénense
hunting and fishing. They have great abundance otter skins, rescued
from everything they had, of Accounts, glass, mirrors, combs, knives
and hooks. We stayed two days, and gave us two Indians cavities that
had captivated for us as guides and interpreters.

CHAPTER XVII.

We
arrived at the Galgaisi and Macurendas.

We continued our journey,
we reached another nation called Galgaisi, [11] that could put 40.000
Indian war. Indians also bring their two stones next to the nose,
such as Coronda; and are of the same language as Timbúes: It is 30
miles from their island. His mother demanded all his time. She hung upon his lips; she made him repeat fifty
times the story of his wanderings. She was never tired of kissing him, of weeping over him,
and of thanking him for the "sacrifice" he had made for her.

"We promised never to speak of it more, Richard," the poor lady said one day, "but if my lifelong
love can make atonement for the wrong I have done you--"

"Hush, dearest mother," said John Rex, who did not in the least comprehend what it was all
about. "Let us say no more."

Lady Devine wept quietly for a while, and then went away, leaving the man who pretended to
be her son much bewildered and a little frightened. There was a secret which he had not fathomed
between Lady Devine and her son. The mother did not again refer to it, and, gaining courage
as the days went on, Rex grew bold enough to forget his fears. In the first stages of his deception
he had been timid and cautious. Then the soothing influence of comfort, respect, and security
came upon him, and almost refined him. He began to feel as he had felt when Mr. Lionel Crofton
was alive. The sensation of being ministered to by a loving woman, who kissed him night and
morning, calling him "son"--of being regarded with admiration by rustics, with envy by respectable
folk--of being deferred to in all things--was novel and pleasing. They were so good to him
that he felt at times inclined to confess all, and leave his case in the hands of the folk
he had injured. Yet--he thought--such a course would be absurd. It would result in no benefit
to anyone, simply in misery to himself. The true Richard Devine was buried fathoms deep in
the greedy ocean of convict-discipline, and the waves of innumerable punishments washed over
him. John Rex flattered himself that he had usurped the name of one who was in fact no living
man, and that, unless one should rise from the dead, Richard Devine could never return to accuse
him. So flattering himself, he gradually became bolder, and by slow degrees suffered his true
nature to appear. He was violent to the servants, cruel to dogs and horses, often wantonly
coarse in speech, and brutally regardless of the feelings of others. Governed, like most women,
solely by her feelings, Lady Devine had at first been prodigal of her affection to the man
she believed to be her injured son. But his rash acts of selfishness, his habits of grossness
and self-indulgence, gradually disgusted her. For some time she--poor woman--fought against
this feeling, endeavouring to overcome her instincts of distaste, and arguing with herself
that to permit a detestation of her unfortunate son to arise in her heart was almost criminal;
but she was at length forced to succumb.

For the first year Mr. Richard conducted himself with great propriety, but as his circle of
acquaintance and his confidence in himself increased, he now and then forgot the part he was
playing. One day Mr. Richard went to pass the day with a sporting friend, only too proud to
see at his table so wealthy and wonderful a man. Mr. Richard drank a good deal more than was
good for him, and returned home in a condition of disgusting drunkenness. I say disgusting,
because some folks have the art of getting drunk after a humorous fashion, that robs intoxication
of half its grossness. For John Rex to be drunk was to be himself--coarse and cruel. Francis
Wade was away, and Lady Devine had retired for the night, when the dog-cart brought home "Mr.
Richard". The virtuous butler-porter, who opened the door, received a blow in the chest and
a demand for "Brandy!" The groom was cursed, and ordered to instant oblivion. Mr. Richard stumbled
into the dining-room--veiled in dim light as a dining-room which was "sitting up" for its master
ought to be--and ordered "more candles!" The candles were brought, after some delay, and Mr.
Richard amused himself by spilling their meltings upon the carpet. "Let's have 'luminashon!"
he cried; and climbing with muddy boots upon the costly chairs, scraping with his feet the
polished table, attempted to fix the wax in the silver sconces, with which the antiquarian
tastes of Mr. Francis Wade had adorned the room.

"You'll break the table, sir," said the servant.

"Damn the table!" said Rex. "Buy 'nother table. What's table t'you?" "Oh, certainly, sir,"
replied the man.

"Oh, c'ert'nly! Why c'ert'nly? What do you know about it?"

"Oh, certainly not, sir," replied the man.

"If I had--stockwhip here--I'd make you--hic--skip! Whar's brandy?"

"Here, Mr. Richard."

"Have some! Good brandy! Send for servantsh and have dance. D'you dance, Tomkins?"

"No, Mr. Richard."

"Then you shall dance now, Tomkins. You'll dance upon nothing one day, Tomkins! Here! Halloo!
Mary! Susan! Janet! William! Hey! Halloo!" And he began to shout and blaspheme.

"Don't you think it's time for bed, Mr. Richard?" one of the men ventured to suggest.

"No!" roared the ex-convict, emphatically, "I don't! I've gone to bed at daylight far too long.
We'll have 'luminashon! I'm master here. Master everything. Richard 'Vine's my name. Isn't
it, Tomkins, you villain?"

"Oh-h-h! Yes, Mr. Richard."

"Course it is, and make you know it too! I'm no painter-picture, crockery chap. I'm genelman!
Genelman seen the world! Knows what's what. There ain't much I ain't fly to. Wait till the
old woman's dead, Tomkins, and you shall see!" More swearing, and awful threats of what the
inebriate would do when he was in possession. "Bring up some brandy!" Crash goes the bottle
in the fire-place. "Light up the droring-rooms; we'll have dance! I'm drunk! What's that? If
you'd gone through what I have, you'd be glad to be drunk. I look a fool"--this to his image
in another glass. "I ain't though, or I wouldn't be here. Curse you, you grinning idiot"--crash
goes his fist through the mirror--"don't grin at me. Play up there! Where's old woman? And along with it
  another of the same who had responded to the Marquis, which said:
  he had understood everything, and that the appeal to he had questioned
  or denied the king of the land, was to with much greater confidence
  to ask the King of heaven, whose no appeal has to be private.
  Not be excused after possible to set on track for his poor health,
  and to be near death, and added that all mandates renewed above,
  and which required the PP. all the laws that could, but
  knew that everything had to be futile, as neither he or them
  to have control over so many free and so many will of the Indians:
  and if in his will in such a way were including the Indians, as
  in Adam, the their offspring, or at least as that of the PP. Missionaries,
  through holy obedience, I would not hesitate from effect, but being
  so, he did not expect anything, that Marques with his
  sharp trial to suggest that this mode with more effectively
  be enforced, or that requires the bishop, who walking on a
  visit in the immediate cities, to reach these nearby, and with his
  authority and gently persuade them. He so judged, and would
  be well, and what is more, the would ask to do so, releasing the
  afflicted people, they had no disability. Even after publication,
  not missed fights and movements, especially as PP compelled again.
  to leave the Indians, and to a withdrawal impossible.
  
  101. How are you so harsh words, no less than wicked and never
  expected, troubled them in the minds of the whole province, knowing
  them Indians, some insist, but other advised and encouraged the PP.,
surrendered and, for the Luisistas, Lorenzo and Santo Angel were loading
their things, especially when for the second time they came to the
other peoples letters of Captain General of the Army, in which (were
two) was the Indians with softness, calling siblings, friends, misled
by bad advice from a mood greedy and therefore did not believe that
to another but to him already their PP. had fallen from grace of the
King, which was a sign having repudiated his confessor, and that the
monarch would give hereafter many arguments on its severity: they
knew their good cheer and wanted to trust him, and that what egecutando
ready sent them, would improve their situation.

  
  
  102. With PP. however used threats, and exaggerated the killing,
  throwing the blame to them, for being so, that other times
  I got from the Indians all things, now interest both to the faith
  or real word, and his interests, were reluctant to hand over
  hand. Who had the hope get real clemency, if persuaded the Indians,
  and PP. same in person to come to him with the chiefs and councils
  exhausted and humiliated, because if they did so, then the egecutar
  point was to the contrary, seen and heard things.
  
  103. The Luisistas were the first to send heralds to Letters to
  the Captain General, in which they promised to were to move as they
  turned their captives, and notify them intended to land, which
  had sought in vain before.

  The Lorenza Legacia similar reused, but the sugetaban one
  apparently. The Santo Angel had already done it such a letter,
  and sent 20 men to Monte Grande, towards the village of San Javier,
  to have the road. But then disrupted all things by the obstinacy
  and suggestions other peoples, and because ten caciques de la Concepcion
  came here where we were. They regret to the Luisistas of their
  submission, and more a messenger who came back from Governor, who
  resented the face excessively seriously that was received,
  and to more than this, for not achieved should give them
  their fortunes, and most of all, because letter of response had not
been referred to the Indians, but the cure, and this amply dry and
tasteless.

  "This is not the response, they said, by which it is entering upon
  the clemency del Rey. Should be omitted that the priest with his
  parishioners come out humiliated, and suggested this be enough,
  envano expected, and have no other choice. "Insulted, therefore
  these things back to the old obstinacy, and so arranged new
  troops against the enemy, numbering 400.
   Many respectable
money-lenders would have required "further information" before they would discount his bills;
and "clubmen" in general--save, perhaps, those ancient quidnuncs who know everybody, from Adam
downwards--had but little acquaintance with him. The advent of Mr. Richard Devine--a coarse
person of unlimited means--had therefore chief influence upon that sinister circle of male
and female rogues who form the "half-world". They began to inquire concerning his antecedents,
and, failing satisfactory information, to invent lies concerning him. It was generally believed
that he was a black sheep, a man whose family kept him out of the way, but who was, in a pecuniary
sense, "good" for a considerable sum.

Thus taken upon trust, Mr. Richard Devine mixed in the very best of bad society, and had no
lack of agreeable friends to help him to spend money. So admirably did he spend it, that Francis
Wade became at last alarmed at the frequent drafts, and urged his nephew to bring his affairs
to a final settlement. Richard Devine--in Paris, Hamburg, or London, or elsewhere--could never
be got to attack business, and Mr. Francis Wade grew more and more anxious. The poor gentleman
positively became ill through the anxiety consequent upon his nephew's dissipations. "I wish,
my dear Richard, that you would let me know what to do," he wrote. "I wish, my dear uncle,
that you would do what you think best," was his nephew's reply.

"Will you let Purkiss and Quaid look into the business?" said the badgered Francis.

"I hate lawyers," said Richard. "Do what you think right."

Mr. Wade began to repent of his too easy taking of matters in the beginning. Not that he had
a suspicion of Rex, but that he had remembered that Dick was always a loose fish. The even
current of the dilettante's life became disturbed. He grew pale and hollow-eyed. His digestion
was impaired. He ceased to take the interest in china which the importance of that article
demanded. In a word, he grew despondent as to his fitness for his mission in life. Lady Ellinor
saw a change in her brother. He became morose, peevish, excitable. She went privately to the
family doctor, who shrugged his shoulders. "There is no danger," said he, "if he is kept quiet;
keep him quiet, and he will live for years; but his father died of heart disease, you know."
Lady Ellinor, upon this, wrote a long letter to Mr. Richard, who was at Paris, repeated the
doctor's opinions, and begged him to come over at once. Mr. Richard replied that some horse-racing
matter of great importance occupied his attention, but that he would be at his rooms in Clarges
Street (he had long ago established a town house) on the 14th, and would "go into matters".
"I have lost a good deal of money lately, my dear mother," said Mr. Richard, "and the present
will be a good opportunity to make a final settlement." The fact was that John Rex, now three
years in undisturbed possession, considered that the moment had arrived for the execution of
his grand coup--the carrying off at one swoop of the whole of the fortune he had gambled for.

CHAPTER III. EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH.

May 12th--landed to-day at Norfolk Island, and have been introduced to my new abode, situated
some eleven hundred miles from Sydney. A solitary rock in the tropical ocean, the island seems,
indeed, a fit place of banishment. It is about seven miles long and four broad. The most remarkable
natural object is, of course, the Norfolk Island pine, which rears its stately head a hundred
feet above the surrounding forest. The appearance of the place is very wild and beautiful,
bringing to my mind the description of the romantic islands of the Pacific, which old geographers
dwell upon so fondly. Lemon, lime, and guava trees abound, also oranges, grapes, figs, bananas,
peaches, pomegranates, and pine-apples. The climate just now is hot and muggy. The approach
to Kingstown--as the barracks and huts are called--is properly difficult. A long low reef--probably
originally a portion of the barren rocks of Nepean and Philip Islands, which rise east and
west of the settlement--fronts the bay and obstructs the entrance of vessels. We were landed
in boats through an opening in this reef, and our vessel stands on and off within signalling
distance. The surf washes almost against the walls of the military roadway that leads to the
barracks. The social aspect of the place fills me with horror. There seems neither discipline
nor order. On our way to the Commandant's house we passed a low dilapidated building where
men were grinding maize, and at the sight of us they commenced whistling, hooting, and shouting,
using the most disgusting language. Three warders were near, but no attempt was made to check
this unseemly exhibition.

May 14th.--I sit down to write with as much reluctance as though I were about to relate my
experience of a journey through a sewer.

First to the prisoners' barracks, which stand on an area of about three acres, surrounded by
a lofty wall. A road runs between this wall and the sea. The barracks are three storeys high,
and hold seven hundred and ninety men (let me remark here that there are more than two thousand
men on the island). There are twenty-two wards in this place. Each ward runs the depth of the
building, viz., eighteen feet, and in consequence is simply a funnel for hot or cold air to
blow through. When the ward is filled, the men's heads lie under the windows. The largest ward
contains a hundred men, the smallest fifteen. They sleep in hammocks, slung close to each other
as on board ship, in two lines, with a passage down the centre. There is a wardsman to each
ward. He is selected by the prisoners, and is generally a man of the worst character. He is
supposed to keep order, but of course he never attempts to do so; indeed, as he is locked up
in the ward every night from six o'clock in the evening until sunrise, without light, it is
possible that he might get maltreated did he make himself obnoxious.

The barracks look upon the Barrack Square, which is filled with lounging prisoners. The windows
of the hospital-ward also look upon Barrack Square, and the prisoners are in constant communication
with the patients. The hospital is a low stone building, capable of containing about twenty
men, and faces the beach. I placed my hands on the wall, and found it damp. An ulcerous prisoner
said the dampness was owing to the heavy surf constantly rolling so close beneath the building.
There are two gaols, the old and the new. The old gaol stands near the sea, close to the landing-place.
Outside it, at the door, is the Gallows. I touched it as I passed in. This engine is the first
thing which greets the eyes of a newly-arrived prisoner. The new gaol is barely completed,
is of pentagonal shape, and has eighteen radiating cells of a pattern approved by some wiseacre
in England, who thinks that to prevent a man from seeing his fellowmen is not the way to drive
him mad. In the old gaol are twenty-four prisoners, all heavily ironed, awaiting trial by the
visiting Commission, from Hobart Town. Some of these poor ruffians, having committed their
offences just after the last sitting of the Commission, have already been in gaol upwards of
eleven months!

At six o'clock we saw the men mustered. I read prayers before the muster, and was surprised
to find that some of the prisoners attended, while some strolled about the yard, whistling,
singing, and joking. The muster is a farce. The prisoners are not mustered outside and then
marched to their wards, but they rush into the barracks indiscriminately, and place themselves
dressed or undressed in their hammocks. A convict sub-overseer then calls out the names, and
somebody replies. If an answer is returned to each name, all is considered right. The lights
are taken away, and save for a few minutes at eight o'clock, when the good-conduct men are
let in, the ruffians are left to their own devices until morning. Knowing what I know of the
customs of the convicts, my heart sickens when I in imagination put myself in the place of
a newly-transported man, plunged from six at night until daybreak into that foetid den of worse
than wild beasts.

May 15th.--There is a place enclosed between high walls adjoining the convict barracks, called
the Lumber Yard. This is where the prisoners mess. It is roofed on two sides, and contains
tables and benches. Six hundred men can mess here perhaps, but as seven hundred are always
driven into it, it follows that the weakest men are compelled to sit on the ground. A more
disorderly sight than this yard at meal times I never beheld. The cook-houses are adjoining
it, and the men bake their meal-bread there. Outside the cook-house door the firewood is piled,
and fires are made in all directions on the ground, round which sit the prisoners, frying their
rations of fresh pork, baking their hominy cakes, chatting, and even smoking.

The Lumber Yard is a sort of Alsatia, to which the hunted prisoner retires. I don't think the
boldest constable on the island would venture into that place to pick out a man from the seven
hundred. If he did go in I don't think he would come out again alive.

May 16th.--A sub-overseer, a man named Hankey, has been talking to me. He says that there are
some forty of the oldest and worst prisoners who form what he calls the "Ring", and that the
members of this "Ring" are bound by oath to support each other, and to avenge the punishment
of any of their number. In proof of his assertions he instanced two cases of English prisoners
who had refused to join in some crime, and had informed the Commandant of the proceedings of
the Ring. They were found in the morning strangled in their hammocks. An inquiry was held,
but not a man out of the ninety in the ward would speak a word. I dread the task that is before
me. How can I attempt to preach piety and morality to these men? How can I attempt even to
save the less villainous?

May 17th.--Visited the wards to-day, and returned in despair. The condition of things is worse
than I expected. It is not to be written. The newly-arrived English prisoners--and some of
their histories are most touching--are insulted by the language and demeanour of the hardened
miscreants who are the refuse of Port Arthur and Cockatoo Island. The vilest crimes are perpetrated
as jests. These are creatures who openly defy authority, whose language and conduct is such
as was never before seen or heard out of Bedlam. There are men who are known to have murdered
their companions, and who boast of it. With these the English farm labourer, the riotous and
ignorant mechanic, the victim of perjury or mistake, are indiscriminately herded. With them
are mixed Chinamen from Hong Kong, the Aborigines of New Holland, West Indian blacks, Greeks,
Caffres, and Malays, soldiers for desertion, idiots, madmen, pig-stealers, and pick-pockets.
The dreadful place seems set apart for all that is hideous and vile in our common nature. In
its recklessness, its insubordination, its filth, and its despair, it realizes to my mind the
popular notion of Hell. 

The man was Juan de Villegas.

Fugitive from prison, a week ago who was in Lima, and since his return
did not stop of stalking in the temple to the Viceroy, seeking occasion
to kill him.

That night was assigned the case to Mayor Don Rodrigo de Odria, and such was his activity that
eight days later, Villegas body swaying like a bunch on the gallows.

- Too bad rogue! - Said at the foot of the scaffold to Sheriff Don
Rodrigo -.

Is not it true, Güerequeque, who always maintained that this villain
had to finish high?

- With apologies to usiría - answered the questioned
- that the suit is of little height to the deserving Rascal.

MOTHER'S LOVE

CHRONICLE SEASON OF VICEROY "SILVER ARM"

(A Juana Manuela Gorriti.)

We deem it desirable to alter the names
of the main characters in this tradition, sin venial sin we have committed
in The summoned and otherwise.

Names mean little if careful not to distort the historical truth, and well have guessed the reader
why, and very powerful neighbors will have had to de-baptism.

I

In August 1690 he made his entry into Lima the most excellent Don Melchor Portocarrero Lasso
de la Vega, Count of Monclova, Bush Commander of the Order of Alcántara and twenty-third Viceroy
of Peru by His Majesty Don Carlos II. Besides his daughter Dona Josefa, and his family and servitude,
He was accompanied from Mexico, whose government was transferred to these realms, Spanish
soldiers.

Distinguish between them, for their gallant and martial appearance, gift Fernando Vergara, hidalgo
Extremadura, captain of gentlemen spears, and we had to that among the beauties he had not stopped
Mexican austere reputation Benedictine monk. Brawler, gambler and lover of women to war, was more
than difficult to do sit head, and the viceroy, who professed paternal affection, was proposed
in Lima to marry him for his hand, to see if that was really dumb customs status.

Evangelina Zamora, in addition to her youth and beauty, had clothes that made the game more
lovely city of Kings. His great-grandfather had been, after Jeronimo de Aliaga, Mayor Ribera,
Martín de Alcántara and Diego Maldonado Rico, one of the conquerors
Pizarro most favored by divisions in the valley of Rimac.

The emperor agreed the use of the Don, and some years after sending valuable present to the
crown hit him the mercy of a habit of Santiago.

With a century back, rich and ennobled, our thought conquistador who had no mission and this
valley of tears, and in 1604 rolled the mat, bequeathing of the estate, in rural and urban properties,
a flow that was estimated then fifth of a million.

The grandfather and the father of Evangelina accretion inheritance, and the young orphan was
found to age of twenty years, under the protection of a guardian and envied for their wealth.

Among
the modest daughter of the Count of Monclova and affluent Lima was
established shortly the most cordial friendship.

Evangelina had reason to be so often at the palace in partnership with the captain of gentlemen,
who by dint of gallant wasted no circumstances to make his court to the maiden, which was effected
without amorous inclination to confess that Extremadura gentleman
had managed to sprout in his chest, listened with secret pleasure
the marriage proposal to Ferdinand.

The broker was the viceroy nothing less, and well-indoctrinated young could not infer snub to so
high a sponsor.

During the first five years of marriage, Captain Vergara forgot his old life dissipation. His wife
and children were all his happiness was, let's say, a husband exemplary.

But one fateful day the devil made Don Fernando accompany his wife to a family party, and that she
had a room where not only playing the classic malilla crowded, but that, around a table with green
baize, were gathered many devotees of culbículos. The passion of the game was just numb in the
soul of the master, and no wonder that in view of the dice awoke
with greater force.

Played, and so perverse fortune that night he lost twenty thousand dollars.

Since that time, the model husband completely changed his ways and returned to the feverish existence
of the player.

Mostrándosele luck increasingly rebellious, he had to undermine the finances his wife and children
to cope with losses and throw in that bottomless pit called for revenge.

Among his companions was a young vice, Marquis who favored dice with tenacity, and Don Fernando
took so crazy whim combat fortune. Many nights I had for dinner Evan's house and, after the
dinner, the two friends were locked in a room a shirtless, word on
the technique of the players has a nasty accuracy.

Decidedly, the player and the insane are the same entity. If something smaller, in my opinion,
the historical figure of Emperor Augustus is that, according to Suetonius,
after dinner played even and odd.

Evan was trying in vain to avert the cliff to rampant player.

Tears and tenderness, anger and reconciliation were in vain. The good woman has no other weapons
to spend on the heart of the man she loved.

One night the unhappy wife was already included in her bed when she was awakened Ferdinand asking
the wedding ring.

He was a brilliant crecidísimo value. Evangelina was startled; but her husband calmed her anxiety,
telling her that was only to satisfy the curiosity of friends who
doubted the merit of the precious jewel.

What had happened in the room where they were rivals of carpet? Don Fernando lost a large sum,
and no longer having pledge to play, he remembered the splendid ring his wife.

The misfortune is inexorable. The precious jewel few minutes later wearing the ring finger the
greedy Marquis.

Don Fernando shuddered with shame and remorse. Bye the Marquis, and Verger accompanied to the courtroom,
but on reaching it, turned his head to a screen that communicated Evan's room, and through the
glass violates sobbing on his knees before an image of Mary.

A horrible vertigo seized the spirit of Don Fernando, and as fast as the tiger lunged on the
marquis, and gave him three stabs in the back.

The hapless fled to the bedroom, and fell lifeless in front of the bed of Evan.

II

The Count de la Monclova, very young at the time, commanded a company at the Battle of Arras,
given in 1654. His courage drew him to the thick of the fight, and was removed from the field
almost dying. Restablecióse at last, but with loss of the right arm, it was necessary to amputate.
The silver was replaced with another, hence the nickname that came in Mexico Lima and was baptized.

Viceroy
silver arm, on whose coat of arms is reading this motto: Ave Maria
gratia plena, happened in the government of Peru to the illustrious
Don Melchor de Navarra and Roca.

"With equal prestige than its predecessor, but with fewer administrative skills - says Lorente -
pure customs, religious, conciliatory and moderate, the Count of
Monclova edified the people by its example, and the needy always found
him ready to give alms their salaries and income from home.

"

In the fifteen years and four months of the government arm of silver, neither period until
then or since was no viceroy, the country enjoyed perfect peace,
the administration was ordered, and magnificent houses built in Lima.

True that the Treasury did not walk flourishing, but for reasons extraneous to politics. The processions
and religious festivals then remembered, for its magnificence and luxury, the times of the Count
de Lemos. Portals, with eighty-five arches, whose factory was done with spending twenty-five thousand
dollars, the Council and the gallery of the palace were the work of that era.

In 1694 Lima was born in a monster with two heads and beautiful faces,
two hearts, four arms, two breasts together by cartilage.

From the waist down had little to phenomenal and the encyclopedic Lima Don Pedro de Peralta
wrote under the title Nature Diversions a curious book, which, while having an anatomical
description of the monster, insists to prove that he was endowed with two souls.

Carlos the Bewitched died in 1700, Felipe V, who succeeded him, rewarded the Count of Monclova
making it big in Spain.

Sick and tired octogenarian command, the Viceroy silver arm urged the court to to be replaced.
Without seeing achieved this desire, died on the count of Monclova on 22 September 1702, was buried
in the Cathedral, and his successor, the Marquis de Casteldos Rius, but failed to Lima in June
1707.

Doña Josefa, daughter of the Count of Monclova, continued to dwell in the palace after death the Viceroy,
but one night, and agreed with his confessor, Father Alonso Messiah, picked through a window and
took refuge in the nuns of Santa Catalina, professing with the habit
of Santa Rosa, whose monastery was at the factory.

In May 1710 moved Josefa Portocarrero Lazo de la Vega to the new convent, which was the first
abbess.

III

Four months after his imprisonment, the Royal Court sentencing to
death of Don Fernando Vergara.

This from the very beginning had declared that killing the Marquis, with premeditation, in a fit
of desperation ruined player. Faced with such a frank confession was not the highest court to enforce
the penalty.

Evangelina put into play all spring to free her husband from an infamous death, and in such
despair, came the day appointed for the punishment of the criminal.

Then the self-sacrificing Evangelina brave and decided to do, love
to name their children without such a sacrifice.

Dressed in mourning was made in the palace hall in moments and the Viceroy of Monclova in accordance
with the judges, and said: Don Fernando had murdered the Marquis protected by law, that she was adulterous,
and, surprised by her husband, fled from their wrath, just getting his accomplice's death
outraged husband.

The frequency of visits to the home of the Marquis of Evangeline, the ring of it as a perk
Love in the hand of the corpse, the wounds in the back, the fact of having been found the dead at
the foot of the bed of the lady, and other small details were sufficient grounds for the viceroy,
giving credit to the oracle, ordered the sentence suspended.

The trial judge became the prison to endorse the declaration Ferdinand of his wife. But the clerk
just finished reading when Vergara, seized a thousand found feelings, threw a hideous laugh.

The
poor fellow had gone mad!

A few years later, the wings of death hung over the bed of the noble chaste wife, and a austere
priest lavished on the dying the consolations of religion.

The four sons of kneel expecting the season Evangelina maternal blessing.

Then the devoted victim, forced by her confessor, revealed the terrible secret - the world forget
- they said - the name of the woman who gave you life, but would
have been unforgiving to you if your father had climbed the steps
of the scaffold.

God, who reads my glass conscience, know that before I lost my honor society because you do
not call it a day the children of the executed.

LUCAS Sacrilege

CHRONICLE SEASON OF VICEROY OF PERU VIGÉSIMONONO

I

Which had passed through the plaza of St. Augustine when eleven at night October 22, 1743, would
have been a lump on the cornice of the facade of the church, striving to enter it by a narrow skylight.
Great agility and balance tests had no doubt to make the climber to climb on the ledge, and the
Christian who had referred to would have to cross himself by holding the Evil or goblin at
least.

And do not forget that for those, time was of public voice and fame in certain nights, the plaza
of San Augustine was invaded by a procession of souls in purgatory with candle in hand. I did not take
off or put, but I suspect that with the republic and we have gas put the breath of the Holy Souls,
which are very Mohin and still on the site His Divine Majesty pleased them.

The churchyard was not then the great iron gate decorated today, and nightlife of the city police
had abandoned such, it was difficult to find Asaz round.

Good people of Lima were kept in house at ten in the evening after turning off the bluff of the
door, and the population was fully submerged in darkness, with great contentment of cats and
owls, the devotees of the property of others and given people a loving enterprise.

The prudent reader may not believe in goblins or demons crowned, and as is fashion in these days
of civilization, perhaps he does not believe in God, there is a suspected thief is inserted
through the skylight of the church. Think bad and you will succeed.

Indeed. Our man with the aid of a rope swung down to the temple,
and with resolute step went to the altar.

I do not know, reader,
if you've ever found at night in a vast temple, with no light bulbs
that give off some placed at the bottom of the effigies, and feeling
the fateful flight and the cawing of these birds nesting in the towers
and domes. For myself I say nothing has occurred in my mind an impression
more somber and solemn time, and that So I have to sacristanes and
acolytes in the opinion, say no saints, but to be men more livers
of Christianity. Me laugh the brave of Independence!

Our man came
to the sanctuary, opened the recamarín, took out his handkerchief
wrapped Custody the divine Host, leaving on the altar and left the
temple by the same skylight that had input.

Only two days later,
on the morning of Saturday 25, when it should be the renewal of Form,
came to discover the theft. Gone was the golden sun, valued at more
than forty thousand dollars, and whose rich pearls, rubies, diamonds,
sapphires, opals and emeralds were present of the main families of
Lima. Although the pedestal was also admirable as gold v art work
did not arouse the greed of the robber.

It is easy to imagine the
uproar that this desecration cause the devout people. As regards the
learned writer of the Journal of Lima, in Nos. 4 and 5 October 1791,
was a procession of repentance, sermon on the text of David: Exurge,
Domine, et tuam causam Judica, constant prayers, lay and sacristanes
prison, and posters setting rewards for whistle the thief. Theaters
were closed and mourning was general when running on undiscovered
the offender, challenged the authority of the tremendous spring ecclesiastical
censures and read off candles.

For its part, the Marquis de Villagarcía,
viceroy of Peru, had filled his duty, teaching all the MPLA in its
discretion orders were to capture the sacrilegious. The express to
magistrates and other authorities of the viceroyalty was followed
relentlessly, until late November Lima became a sheriff of the mayor
of Huancavelica Jeronimo Solá, former Minister of the Indies, with
sheets in which he communicated to his Excellency the thief was lodged
in jail and their respective pair of socks of Biscay. Well said saying
that between bonnet and helmet are things plume.

Bells took to flight,
the theater turned to work, the residents left the mourning and Lima
gave feasts and rejoicing. He came down with it in his hand to the gaol-gang, walked into the
yard, shut the gate, and said, "I've just got this from my overseers. They say they're afraid
you'll murder them as you murdered Hankey. Now, if you want to murder, murder me. Here I am.
Step out, one of you." All this, said in a tone of the most galling contempt, did not move
them. I saw a dozen pairs of eyes flash hatred, but the bull-dog courage of the man overawed
them here, as, I am told, it had done in Sydney. It would have been easy to kill him then and
there, and his death, I am told, is sworn among them; but no one raised a finger. The only
man who moved was Rufus Dawes, and he checked himself instantly. Frere, with a recklessness
of which I did not think him capable, stepped up to this terror of the prison, and ran his
hands lightly down his sides, as is the custom with constables when "searching" a man. Dawes--who
is of a fierce temper--turned crimson at this and, I thought, would have struck him, but he
did not. Frere then--still unarmed and alone--proceeded to the man, saying, "Do you think of
bolting again, Dawes? Have you made any more boats?"

"You Devil!" said the chained man, in a voice pregnant with such weight of unborn murder, that
the gang winced. "You'll find me one," said Frere, with a laugh; and, turning to me, continued,
in the same jesting tone, "There's a penitent for you, Mr. North--try your hand on him."

I was speechless at his audacity, and must have shown my disgust in my face, for he coloured
slightly, and as we were leaving the yard, he endeavoured to excuse himself, by saying that
it was no use preaching to stones, and such doubly-dyed villains as this Dawes were past hope.
"I know the ruffian of old," said he. "He came out in the ship from England with me, and tried
to raise a mutiny on board. He was the man who nearly murdered my wife. He has never been out
of irons--except then and when he escaped--for the last eighteen years; and as he's three life
sentences, he's like to die in 'em."

A monstrous wretch and criminal, evidently, and yet I feel a strange sympathy with this outcast.

CHAPTER V. MR. RICHARD DEVINE SURPRISED.

The town house of Mr. Richard Devine was in Clarges Street. Not that the very modest mansion
there situated was the only establishment of which Richard Devine was master. Mr. John Rex
had expensive tastes. He neither shot nor hunted, so he had no capital invested in Scotch moors
or Leicestershire hunting-boxes. But his stables were the wonder of London, he owned almost
a racing village near Doncaster, kept a yacht at Cowes, and, in addition to a house in Paris,
paid the rent of a villa at Brompton. He belonged to several clubs of the faster sort, and
might have lived like a prince at any one of them had he been so minded; but a constant and
haunting fear of discovery--which three years of unquestioned ease and unbridled riot had not
dispelled--led him to prefer the privacy of his own house, where he could choose his own society.
The house in Clarges Street was decorated in conformity with the tastes of its owner. The pictures
were pictures of horses, the books were records of races, or novels purporting to describe
sporting life. Mr. Francis Wade, waiting, on the morning of the 20th April, for the coming
of his nephew, sighed as he thought of the cultured quiet of North End House.

Mr. Richard appeared in his dressing-gown. Three years of good living and hard drinking had
deprived his figure of its athletic beauty. He was past forty years of age, and the sudden
cessation from severe bodily toil to which in his active life as a convict and squatter he
had been accustomed, had increased Rex's natural proneness to fat, and instead of being portly
he had become gross. His cheeks were inflamed with the frequent application of hot and rebellious
liquors to his blood. His hands were swollen, and not so steady as of yore. His whiskers were
streaked with unhealthy grey. His eyes, bright and black as ever, lurked in a thicket of crow's
feet. He had become prematurely bald--a sure sign of mental or bodily excess. He spoke with
assumed heartiness, in a boisterous tone of affected ease.

"Ha, ha! My dear uncle, sit down. Delighted to see you. Have you breakfasted?--of course you
have. I was up rather late last night. Quite sure you won't have anything. A glass of wine?
No--then sit down and tell me all the news of Hampstead."

"Thank you, Richard," said the old gentleman, a little stiffly, "but I want some serious talk
with you. What do you intend to do with the property? This indecision worries me. Either relieve
me of my trust, or be guided by my advice."

"Well, the fact is," said Richard, with a very ugly look on his face, "the fact is--and you
may as well know it at once--I am much pushed for money."

"Pushed for money!" cried Mr. Wade, in horror. "Why, Purkiss said the property was worth twenty
thousand a year."

"So it might have been--five years ago--but my horse-racing, and betting, and other amusements,
concerning which you need not too curiously inquire, have reduced its value considerably."

He spoke recklessly and roughly. It was evident that success had but developed his ruffianism.
His "dandyism" was only comparative. The impulse of poverty and scheming which led him to affect
the "gentleman" having been removed, the natural brutality of his nature showed itself quite
freely. Mr. Francis Wade took a pinch of snuff with a sharp motion of distaste. "I do not want
to hear of your debaucheries," he said; "our name has been sufficiently disgraced in my hearing."

"What is got over the devil's back goes under his belly," replied Mr. Richard, coarsely. "My
old father got his money by dirtier ways than these in which I spend it. As villainous an old
scoundrel and skinflint as ever poisoned a seaman, I'll go bail."

Mr. Francis rose. "You need not revile your father, Richard--he left you all."

"Ay, but by pure accident. He didn't mean it. If he hadn't died in the nick of time, that unhung
murderous villain, Maurice Frere, would have come in for it. By the way," he added, with a
change of tone, "do you ever hear anything of Maurice?"

"I have not heard for some years," said Mr. Wade. "He is something in the Convict Department
at Sydney, I think." "Is he?" said Mr. Richard, with a shiver. "Hope he'll stop there. Well,
but about business. The fact is, that--that I am thinking of selling everything."

"Selling everything!"

"Yes. 'Pon my soul I am. The Hampstead place and all."

"Sell North End House!" cried poor Mr. Wade, in bewilderment. "You'd sell it? Why, the carvings
by Grinling Gibbons are the finest in England."

"I can't help that," laughed Mr. Richard, ringing the bell. "I want cash, and cash I must have.--Breakfast,
Smithers.--I'm going to travel."

Francis Wade was breathless with astonishment. Educated and reared as he had been, he would
as soon have thought of proposing to sell St. Paul's Cathedral as to sell the casket which
held his treasures of art--his coins, his coffee-cups, his pictures, and his "proofs before
letters".

"Surely, Richard, you are not in earnest?" he gasped.

"I am, indeed."

"But--but who will buy it?"

"Plenty of people. I shall cut it up into building allotments. Besides, they are talking of
a suburban line, with a terminus at St. John's Wood, which will cut the garden in half. You
are quite sure you've breakfasted? Then pardon me."

"Richard, you are jesting with me! You will never let them do such a thing!"

"I'm thinking of a trip to America," said Mr. Richard, cracking an egg. "I am sick of Europe.
After all, what is the good of a man like me pretending to belong to 'an old family', with
'a seat' and all that humbug? Money is the thing now, my dear uncle. Hard cash! That's the
ticket for soup, you may depend."

"Then what do you propose doing, sir?"

"To buy my mother's life interest as provided, realize upon the property, and travel," said
Mr. Richard, helping himself to potted grouse.

"You amaze me, Richard. You confound me. Of course you can do as you please. But so sudden
a determination. The old house--vases--coins--pictures--scattered--I really--Well, it is your
property, of course--and--and--I wish you a very good morning!"

"I mean to do as I please," soliloquized Rex, as he resumed his breakfast. "Let him sell his
rubbish by auction, and go and live abroad, in Germany or Jerusalem if he likes, the farther
the better for me. I'll sell the property and make myself scarce. A trip to America will benefit
my health."

A knock at the door made him start.

"Come in! Curse it, how nervous I'm getting. What's that? Letters? Give them to me; and why
the devil don't you put the brandy on the table, Smithers?"

He drank some of the spirit greedily, and then began to open his correspondence.

"Cussed brute," said Mr. Smithers, outside the door. "He couldn't use wuss langwidge if he
was a dook, dam 'im!--Yessir," he added, suddenly, as a roar from his master recalled him.

"When did this come?" asked Mr. Richard, holding out a letter more than usually disfigured
with stampings.

"Lars night, sir. It's bin to 'Amstead, sir, and come down directed with the h'others." The
angry glare of the black eyes induced him to add, "I 'ope there's nothink wrong, sir."

"Nothing, you infernal ass and idiot," burst out Mr. Richard, white with rage, "except that
I should have had this instantly. Can't you see it's marked urgent? Can you read? Can you spell?
There, that will do. No lies. Get out!"

Left to himself again, Mr. Richard walked hurriedly up and down the chamber, wiped his forehead,
drank a tumbler of brandy, and finally sat down and re-read the letter. It was short, but terribly
to the purpose.

"THE GEORGE HOTEL, PLYMOUTH," 17th April, 1846.

"MY DEAR JACK,--

"I have found you out, you see. Never mind how just at present. I know all about your proceedings,
and unless Mr. Richard Devine receives his "wife" with due propriety, he'll find himself in
the custody of the police. Telegraph, dear, to Mrs. Richard Devine, at above address.

"Yours as ever, Jack,

"SARAH.

"To Richard Devine, Esq., "North End House, "Hampstead."

The blow was unexpected and severe. It was hard, in the very high tide and flush of assured
success, to be thus plucked back into the old bondage. Despite the affectionate tone of the
letter, he knew the woman with whom he had to deal. For some furious minutes he sat motionless,
gazing at the letter. He did not speak--men seldom do under such circumstances--but his thoughts
ran in this fashion: "Here is this cursed woman again! Just as I was congratulating myself
on my freedom. How did she discover me? Small use asking that. What shall I do? I can do nothing.
It is absurd to run away, for I shall be caught. Besides, I've no money. My account at Mastermann's
is overdrawn two thousand pounds. If I bolt at all, I must bolt at once--within twenty-four
hours. Rich as I am, I don't suppose I could raise more than five thousand pounds in that time.
These things take a day or two, say forty-eight hours. In forty-eight hours I could raise twenty
thousand pounds, but forty-eight hours is too long. Curse the woman! I know her! How in the
fiend's name did she discover me? It's a bad job. However, she's not inclined to be gratuitiously
disagreeable. How lucky I never married again! I had better make terms and trust to fortune.
After all, she's been a good friend to me.--Poor Sally!--I might have rotted on that infernal
Eaglehawk Neck if it hadn't been for her. She is not a bad sort. Handsome woman, too. I may
make it up with her. I shall have to sell off and go away after all.--It might be worse.--I
dare say the property's worth three hundred thousand pounds. Not bad for a start in America.
And I may get rid of her yet. Yes. I must give in.--Oh, curse her!--[ringing the bell]--Smithers!"
[Smithers appears.] "A telegraph form and a cab! Stay. Pack me a dressing-bag. I shall be away
for a day or so. [Sotto voce]--I'd better see her myself.--[ Aloud]--Bring me a Bradshaw! [Sotto
voce]--Damn the woman."

CHAPTER VI. IN WHICH THE CHAPLAIN IS TAKEN ILL.

Though the house of the Commandant of Norfolk Island was comfortable and well furnished, and
though, of necessity, all that was most hideous in the "discipline" of the place was hidden,
the loathing with which Sylvia had approached the last and most dreaded abiding place of the
elaborate convict system, under which it had been her misfortune to live, had not decreased.
The sights and sounds of pain and punishment surrounded her. She could not look out of her
windows without a shudder. She dreaded each evening when her husband returned, lest he should
blurt out some new atrocity. She feared to ask him in the morning whither he was going, lest
he should thrill her with the announcement of some fresh punishment.

"I wish, Maurice, we had never come here," said she, piteously, when he recounted to her the
scene of the gaol-gang. "These unhappy men will do you some frightful injury one of these days."

"Stuff!" said her husband. "They've not the courage. I'd take the best man among them, and
dare him to touch me."

"I cannot think how you like to witness so much misery and villainy. It is horrible to think of."

"Our tastes differ, my dear.--Jenkins! Confound you! Jenkins, I say." The convict-servant entered.
"Where is the charge-book? I've told you always to have it ready for me. Why don't you do as
you are told? You idle, lazy scoundrel! I suppose you were yarning in the cookhouse, or--"

"If you please, sir."

"Don't answer me, sir. Give me the book." Taking it and running his finger down the leaves,
he commented on the list of offences to which he would be called upon in the morning to mete
out judgment.

"Meer-a-seek, having a pipe--the rascally Hindoo scoundrel!--Benjamin Pellett, having fat in
his possession. Miles Byrne, not walking fast enough.--We must enliven Mr. Byrne. Thomas Twist,
having a pipe and striking a light. W. Barnes, not in place at muster; says he was 'washing
himself'--I'll wash him! John Richards, missing muster and insolence. John Gateby, insolence
and insubordination. James Hopkins, insolence and foul language. Rufus Dawes, gross insolence,
refusing to work.--Ah! we must look after you. You are a parson's man now, are you? I'll break
your spirit, my man, or I'll--Sylvia!"

"Yes."

"Your friend Dawes is doing credit to his bringing up."

"What do you mean?"

"That infernal villain and reprobate, Dawes. He is fitting himself faster for--" She interrupted
him. "Maurice, I wish you would not use such language. You know I dislike it." She spoke coldly
and sadly, as one who knows that remonstrance is vain, and is yet constrained to remonstrate.

"Oh, dear! My Lady Proper! can't bear to hear her husband swear. How refined we're getting!"

"There, I did not mean to annoy you," said she, wearily. "Don't let us quarrel, for goodness'
sake."

He went away noisily, and she sat looking at the carpet wearily. A noise roused her. She looked
up and saw North. Her face beamed instantly. "Ah! Mr. North, I did not expect you. What brings
you here? You'll stay to dinner, of course." (She rang the bell without waiting for a reply.)
"Mr. North dines here; place a chair for him. And have you brought me the book? I have been
looking for it."

"Here it is," said North, producing a volume of 'Monte Cristo'. She seized the book with avidity,
and, after running her eyes over the pages, turned inquiringly to the fly-leaf.

"It belongs to my predecessor," said North, as though in answer to her thought. "He seems to
have been a great reader of French. I have found many French novels of his."

"I thought clergymen never read French novels," said Sylvia, with a smile.

"There are French novels and French novels," said North. "Stupid people confound the good with
the bad. I remember a worthy friend of mine in Sydney who soundly abused me for reading 'Rabelais',
and when I asked him if he had read it, he said that he would sooner cut his hand off than
open it. Admirable judge of its merits!"

"But is this really good? Papa told me it was rubbish."

"It is a romance, but, in my opinion, a very fine one. The notion of the sailor being taught
in prison by the priest, and sent back into the world an accomplished gentleman, to work out
his vengeance, is superb."

"No, now--you are telling me," laughed she; and then, with feminine perversity, "Go on, what
is the story?"

"Only that of an unjustly imprisoned man, who, escaping by a marvel, and becoming rich--as
Dr. Johnson says, 'beyond the dreams of avarice'--devotes his life and fortune to revenge himself."

"And does he?"

"He does, upon all his enemies save one."

"And he--?" "She--was the wife of his greatest enemy, and Dantès spared her because he loved her."

Sylvia turned away her head. "It seems interesting enough," said she, coldly.

There was an awkward silence for a moment, which each seemed afraid to break. North bit his
lips, as though regretting what he had said. Mrs. Frere beat her foot on the floor, and at
length, raising her eyes, and meeting those of the clergyman fixed upon her face, rose hurriedly,
and went to meet her returning husband.

"Come to dinner, of course!" said Frere, who, though he disliked the clergyman, yet was glad
of anybody who would help him to pass a cheerful evening.

"I came to bring Mrs. Frere a book."

"Ah! She reads too many books; she's always reading books. It is not a good thing to be always
poring over print, is it, North? You have some influence with her; tell her so. Come, I am hungry."

He spoke with that affectation of jollity with which husbands of his calibre veil their bad temper.

Sylvia had her defensive armour on in a twinkling. "Of course, you two men will be against
me. When did two men ever disagree upon the subject of wifely duties? However, I shall read
in spite of you. Do you know, Mr. North, that when I married I made a special agreement with
Captain Frere that I was not to be asked to sew on buttons for him?"

"Indeed!" said North, not understanding this change of humour.

"And she never has from that hour," said Frere, recovering his suavity at the sight of food.
"I never have a shirt fit to put on. Upon my word, there are a dozen in the drawer now."

North perused his plate uncomfortably. A saying of omniscient Balzac occurred to him. "Le grand
écueil est le ridicule," and his mind began to sound all sorts of philosophical depths, not
of the most clerical character.

After dinner Maurice launched out into his usual topic--convict discipline. It was pleasant
for him to get a listener; for his wife, cold and unsympathetic, tacitly declined to enter
into his schemes for the subduing of the refractory villains. "You insisted on coming here,"
she would say. "I did not wish to come. I don't like to talk of these things. Let us talk of
something else." When she adopted this method of procedure, he had no alternative but to submit,
for he was afraid of her, after a fashion. In this ill-assorted match he was only apparently
the master. He was a physical tyrant. For him, a creature had but to be weak to be an object
of contempt; and his gross nature triumphed over the finer one of his wife. Love had long since
died out of their life. The young, impulsive, delicate girl, who had given herself to him seven
years before, had been changed into a weary, suffering woman. The wife is what her husband
makes her, and his rude animalism had made her the nervous invalid she was. Instead of love,
he had awakened in her a distaste which at times amounted to disgust. We have neither the skill
nor the boldness of that profound philosopher whose autopsy of the human heart awoke North's
contemplation, and we will not presume to set forth in bare English the story of this marriage
of the Minotaur. Let it suffice to say that Sylvia liked her husband least when he loved her
most. In this repulsion lay her power over him. When the animal and spiritual natures cross
each other, the nobler triumphs in fact if not in appearance. Maurice Frere, though his wife
obeyed him, knew that he was inferior to her, and was afraid of the statue he had created.
She was ice, but it was the artificial ice that chemists make in the midst of a furnace. Her
coldness was at once her strength and her weakness. When she chilled him, she commanded him.

Unwitting of the thoughts that possessed his guest, Frere chatted amicably. North said little,
but drank a good deal. The wine, however, rendered him silent, instead of talkative. He drank
that he might forget unpleasant memories, and drank without accomplishing his object. When
the pair proceeded to the room where Mrs. Frere awaited them, Frere was boisterously good-humoured,
North silently misanthropic.

"Sing something, Sylvia!" said Frere, with the ease of possession, as one who should say to
a living musical-box, "Play something."

"Oh, Mr. North doesn't care for music, and I'm not inclined to sing. Singing seems out of place
here."

"Nonsense," said Frere. "Why should it be more out of place here than anywhere else?"

"Mrs. Frere means that mirth is in a manner unsuited to these melancholy surroundings," said
North, out of his keener sense.

"Melancholy surroundings!" cried Frere, staring in turn at the piano, the ottomans, and the
looking-glass. "Well, the house isn't as good as the one in Sydney, but it's comfortable enough."

"You don't understand me, Maurice," said Sylvia. "This place is very gloomy to me. The thought
of the unhappy men who are ironed and chained all about us makes me miserable."

"What stuff!" said Frere, now thoroughly roused. "The ruffians deserve all they get and more.
Why should you make yourself wretched about them?"

"Poor men! How do we know the strength of their temptation, the bitterness of their repentance?"

"Evil-doers earn their punishment," says North, in a hard voice, and taking up a book suddenly.
"They must learn to bear it. No repentance can undo their sin."

"But surely there is mercy for the worst of evil-doers," urged Sylvia, gently.

North seemed disinclined or unable to reply, and nodded only.

"Mercy!" cried Frere. "I am not here to be merciful; I am here to keep these scoundrels in
order, and by the Lord that made me, I'll do it!"

"Maurice, do not talk like that. Think how slight an accident might have made any one of us
like one of these men. What is the matter, Mr. North?"

Mr. North has suddenly turned pale.

"Nothing," returned the clergyman, gasping--"a sudden faintness!" The windows were thrown open,
and the chaplain gradually recovered, as he did in Burgess's parlour, at Port Arthur, seven
years ago. "I am liable to these attacks. A touch of heart disease, I think. I shall have to
rest for a day or so." "Ah, take a spell," said Frere; "you overwork yourself."

North, sitting, gasping and pale, smiles in a ghastly manner. "I--I will. If I do not appear
for a week, Mrs. Frere, you will know the reason."

"A week! Surely it will not last so long as that!" exclaims Sylvia.

The ambiguous "it" appears to annoy him, for he flushes painfully, replying, "Sometimes longer.
It is, a--um--uncertain," in a confused and shame-faced manner, and is luckily relieved by
the entry of Jenkins.

"A message from Mr. Troke, sir."

"Troke! What's the matter now?"

"Dawes, sir, 's been violent and assaulted Mr. Troke. Mr. Troke said you'd left orders to be
told at onst of the insubordination of prisoners."

"Quite right. Where is he?" "In the cells, I think, sir. They had a hard fight to get him there,
I am told, your honour."

"Had they? Give my compliments to Mr. Troke, and tell him that I shall have the pleasure of
breaking Mr. Dawes's spirit to-morrow morning at nine sharp."

"Maurice," said Sylvia, who had been listening to the conversation in undisguised alarm, "do
me a favour? Do not torment this man."

"What makes you take a fancy to him?" asks her husband, with sudden unnecessary fierceness.

"Because his is one of the names which have been from my childhood synonymous with suffering
and torture, because whatever wrong he may have done, his life-long punishment must have in
some degree atoned for it."

She spoke with an eager pity in her face that transfigured it. North, devouring her with his
glance, saw tears in her eyes. "Does this look as if he had made atonement?" said Frere coarsely,
slapping the letter.

"He is a bad man, I know, but--" she passed her hand over her forehead with the old troubled
gesture--"he cannot have been always bad. I think I have heard some good of him somewhere."

"Nonsense," said Frere, rising decisively. "Your fancies mislead you. Let me hear you no more.
The man is rebellious, and must be lashed back again to his duty. Come, North, we'll have a
nip before you start."

"Mr. North, will not you plead for me?" suddenly cried poor Sylvia, her self-possession overthrown.
"You have a heart to pity these suffering creatures."

But North, who seemed to have suddenly recalled his soul from some place where it had been
wandering, draws himself aside, and with dry lips makes shift to say, "I cannot interfere with
your husband, madam," and goes out almost rudely.

"You've made old North quite ill," said Frere, when he by-and-by returns, hoping by bluff ignoring
of roughness on his own part to avoid reproach from his wife. "He drank half a bottle of brandy
to steady his nerves before he went home, and swung out of the house like one possessed."

But Sylvia, occupied with her own thoughts, did not reply.

CHAPTER VII. BREAKING A MAN'S SPIRIT.

The insubordination of which Rufus Dawes had been guilty was, in this instance, insignificant.
It was the custom of the newly-fledged constables of Captain Frere to enter the wards at night,
armed with cutlasses, tramping about, and making a great noise. Mindful of the report of Pounce,
they pulled the men roughly from their hammocks, examined their persons for concealed tobacco,
and compelled them to open their mouths to see if any was inside. The men in Dawes's gang--to
which Mr. Troke had an especial objection--were often searched more than once in a night, searched
going to work, searched at meals, searched going to prayers, searched coming out, and this
in the roughest manner. Their sleep broken, and what little self-respect they might yet presume
to retain harried out of them, the objects of this incessant persecution were ready to turn
upon and kill their tormentors.

The great aim of Troke was to catch Dawes tripping, but the leader of the "Ring" was far too
wary. In vain had Troke, eager to sustain his reputation for sharpness, burst in upon the convict
at all times and seasons. He had found nothing. In vain had he laid traps for him; in vain
had he "planted" figs of tobacco, and attached long threads to them, waited in a bush hard
by, until the pluck at the end of his line should give token that the fish had bitten. The
experienced "old hand" was too acute for him. Filled with disgust and ambition, he determined
upon an ingenious little trick. He was certain that Dawes possessed tobacco; the thing was
to find it upon him. Now, Rufus Dawes, holding aloof, as was his custom, from the majority
of his companions, had made one friend--if so mindless and battered an old wreck could be called
a friend--Blind Mooney. Perhaps this oddly-assorted friendship was brought about by two causes--one,
that Mooney was the only man on the island who knew more of the horrors of convictism than
the leader of the Ring; the other, that Mooney was blind, and, to a moody, sullen man, subject
to violent fits of passion and a constant suspicion of all his fellow-creatures, a blind companion
was more congenial than a sharp-eyed one.

Mooney was one of the "First Fleeters". He had arrived in Sydney fifty-seven years before,
in the year 1789, and when he was transported he was fourteen years old. He had been through
the whole round of servitude, had worked as a bondsman, had married, and been "up country",
had been again sentenced, and was a sort of dismal patriarch of Norfolk Island, having been
there at its former settlement. He had no friends. His wife was long since dead, and he stated,
without contradiction, that his master, having taken a fancy to her, had despatched the uncomplaisant
husband to imprisonment. Such cases were not uncommon.

One of the many ways in which Rufus Dawes had obtained the affection of the old blind man was
a gift of such fragments of tobacco as he had himself from time to time secured. Troke knew
this; and on the evening in question hit upon an excellent plan. Admitting himself noiselessly
into the boat-shed, where the gang slept, he crept close to the sleeping Dawes, and counterfeiting
Mooney's mumbling utterance asked for "some tobacco". Rufus Dawes was but half awake, and on
repeating his request, Troke felt something put into his hand. He grasped Dawes's arm, and
struck a light. He had got his man this time. Dawes had conveyed to his fancied friend a piece
of tobacco almost as big as the top joint of his little finger. One can understand the feelings
of a man entrapped by such base means. Rufus Dawes no sooner saw the hated face of Warder Troke
peering over his hammock, then he sprang out, and exerting to the utmost his powerful muscles,
knocked Mr. Troke fairly off his legs into the arms of the in-coming constables. A desperate
struggle took place, at the end of which the convict, overpowered by numbers, was borne senseless
to the cells, gagged, and chained to the ring-bolt on the bare flags. While in this condition
he was savagely beaten by five or six constables.

To this maimed and manacled rebel was the Commandant ushered by Troke the next morning.

"Ha! ha! my man," said the Commandant. "Here you are again, you see. How do you like this sort
of thing?"

Dawes, glaring, makes no answer.

"You shall have fifty lashes, my man," said Frere. "We'll see how you feel then!" The fifty
were duly administered, and the Commandant called the next day. The rebel was still mute.

"Give him fifty more, Mr. Troke. We'll see what he's made of."

One hundred and twenty lashes were inflicted in the course of the morning, but still the sullen
convict refused to speak. He was then treated to fourteen days' solitary confinement in one
of the new cells. On being brought out and confronted with his tormentor, he merely laughed.
For this he was sent back for another fourteen days; and still remaining obdurate, was flogged
again, and got fourteen days more. Had the chaplain then visited him, he might have found him
open to consolation, but the chaplain--so it was stated--was sick. When brought out at the
conclusion of his third confinement, he was found to be in so exhausted a condition that the
doctor ordered him to hospital. As soon as he was sufficiently recovered, Frere visited him,
and finding his "spirit" not yet "broken", ordered that he should be put to grind maize. Dawes
declined to work. So they chained his hand to one arm of the grindstone and placed another
prisoner at the other arm. As the second prisoner turned, the hand of Dawes of course revolved.

"You're not such a pebble as folks seemed to think," grinned Frere, pointing to the turning wheel.

Upon which the indomitable poor devil straightened his sorely-tried muscles, and prevented
the wheel from turning at all. Frere gave him fifty more lashes, and sent him the next day
to grind cayenne pepper. This was a punishment more dreaded by the convicts than any other.
The pungent dust filled their eyes and lungs, causing them the most excruciating torments.
For a man with a raw back the work was one continued agony. In four days Rufus Dawes, emaciated,
blistered, blinded, broke down.

"For God's sake, Captain Frere, kill me at once!" he said.

"No fear," said the other, rejoiced at this proof of his power. "You've given in; that's all
I wanted. Troke, take him off to the hospital."

When he was in hospital, North visited him.

"I would have come to see you before," said the clergyman, "but I have been very ill."

In truth he looked so. He had had a fever, it seemed, and they had shaved his beard, and cropped
his hair. Dawes could see that the haggard, wasted man had passed through some agony almost
as great as his own. The next day Frere visited him, complimented him on his courage, and offered
to make him a constable. Dawes turned his scarred back to his torturer, and resolutely declined
to answer.

"I am afraid you have made an enemy of the Commandant," said North, the next day. "Why not
accept his offer?"

Dawes cast on him a glance of quiet scorn. "And betray my mates? I'm not one of that sort."

The clergyman spoke to him of hope, of release, of repentance, and redemption. The prisoner
laughed. "Who's to redeem me?" he said, expressing his thoughts in phraseology that to ordinary
folks might seem blasphemous. "It would take a Christ to die again to save such as I."

North spoke to him of immortality. "There is another life," said he. "Do not risk your chance
of happiness in it. You have a future to live for, man."

"I hope not," said the victim of the "system". "I want to rest--to rest, and never to be disturbed
again."

His "spirit" was broken enough by this time. Yet he had resolution enough to refuse Frere's
repeated offers. "I'll never 'jump' it," he said to North, "if they cut me in half first."

North pityingly implored the stubborn mind to have mercy on the lacerated body, but without
effect. His own wayward heart gave him the key to read the cipher of this man's life. "A noble
nature ruined," said he to himself. "What is the secret of his history?"

Dawes, on his part, seeing how different from other black coats was this priest--at once so
ardent and so gloomy, so stern and so tender--began to speculate on the cause of his monitor's
sunken cheeks, fiery eyes, and pre-occupied manner, to wonder what grief inspired those agonized
prayers, those eloquent and daring supplications, which were daily poured out over his rude
bed. So between these two--the priest and the sinner--was a sort of sympathetic bond.

One day this bond was drawn so close as to tug at both their heart-strings. The chaplain had
a flower in his coat. Dawes eyed it with hungry looks, and, as the clergyman was about to quit
the room, said, "Mr. North, will you give me that rosebud?" North paused irresolutely, and
finally, as if after a struggle with himself, took it carefully from his button-hole, and placed
it in the prisoner's brown, scarred hand. In another instant Dawes, believing himself alone,
pressed the gift to his lips. North returned abruptly, and the eyes of the pair met. Dawes
flushed crimson, but North turned white as death. Neither spoke, but each was drawn close to
the other, since both had kissed the rosebud plucked by Sylvia's fingers.

CHAPTER VIII. EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH.

October 21st.--I am safe for another six months if I am careful, for my last bout lasted longer
than I expected. I suppose one of these days I shall have a paroxysm that will kill me. I shall
not regret it.

I wonder if this familiar of mine--I begin to detest the expression--will accuse me of endeavouring
to make a case for myself if I say that I believe my madness to be a disease? I do believe
it. I honestly can no more help getting drunk than a lunatic can help screaming and gibbering.
It would be different with me, perhaps, were I a contented man, happily married, with children
about me, and family cares to distract me. But as I am--a lonely, gloomy being, debarred from
love, devoured by spleen, and tortured with repressed desires--I become a living torment to
myself. I think of happier men, with fair wives and clinging children, of men who are loved
and who love, of Frere for instance--and a hideous wild beast seems to stir within me, a monster,
whose cravings cannot be satisfied, can only be drowned in stupefying brandy.

Penitent and shattered, I vow to lead a new life; to forswear spirits, to drink nothing but
water. Indeed, the sight and smell of brandy make me ill. All goes well for some weeks, when
I grow nervous, discontented, moody. I smoke, and am soothed. But moderation is not to be thought
of; little by little I increase the dose of tobacco. Five pipes a day become six or seven.
Then I count up to ten and twelve, then drop to three or four, then mount to eleven at a leap;
then lose count altogether. Much smoking excites the brain. I feel clear, bright, gay. My tongue
is parched in the morning, however, and I use liquor to literally "moisten my clay". I drink
wine or beer in moderation, and all goes well. My limbs regain their suppleness, my hands their
coolness, my brain its placidity. I begin to feel that I have a will. I am confident, calm,
and hopeful. To this condition succeeds one of the most frightful melancholy. I remain plunged,
for an hour together, in a stupor of despair. The earth, air, sea, all appear barren, colourless.
Life is a burden. I long to sleep, and sleeping struggle to awake, because of the awful dreams
which flap about me in the darkness. At night I cry, "Would to God it were morning!" In the
morning, "Would to God it were evening!" I loathe myself, and all around me. I am nerveless,
passionless, bowed down with a burden like the burden of Saul. I know well what will restore
me to life and ease--restore me, but to cast me back again into a deeper fit of despair. I
drink. One glass--my blood is warmed, my heart leaps, my hand no longer shakes. Three glasses--I
rise with hope in my soul, the evil spirit flies from me. I continue--pleasing images flock
to my brain, the fields break into flower, the birds into song, the sea gleams sapphire, the
warm heaven laughs. Great God! what man could withstand a temptation like this?

By an effort, I shake off the desire to drink deeper, and fix my thoughts on my duties, on
my books, on the wretched prisoners. I succeed perhaps for a time; but my blood, heated by
the wine which is at once my poison and my life, boils in my veins. I drink again, and dream.
I feel all the animal within me stirring. In the day my thoughts wander to all monstrous imaginings.
The most familiar objects suggest to me loathsome thoughts. Obscene and filthy images surround
me. My nature seems changed. By day I feel myself a wolf in sheep's clothing; a man possessed
by a devil, who is ready at any moment to break out and tear him to pieces. At night I become
a satyr. While in this torment I at once hate and fear myself. One fair face is ever before
me, gleaming through my hot dreams like a flying moon in the sultry midnight of a tropic storm.
I dare not trust myself in the presence of those whom I love and respect, lest my wild thoughts
should find vent in wilder words. I lose my humanity. I am a beast. Out of this depth there
is but one way of escape. Downwards. I must drench the monster I have awakened until he sleeps
again. I drink and become oblivious. In these last paroxysms there is nothing for me but brandy.
I shut myself up alone and pour down my gullet huge draughts of spirit. It mounts to my brain.
I am a man again! and as I regain my manhood, I topple over--dead drunk.

But the awakening! Let me not paint it. The delirium, the fever, the self-loathing, the prostration,
the despair. I view in the looking-glass a haggard face, with red eyes. I look down upon shaking
hands, flaccid muscles, and shrunken limbs. I speculate if I shall ever be one of those grotesque
and melancholy beings, with bleared eyes and running noses, swollen bellies and shrunken legs!
Ugh!--it is too likely.

October 22nd.--Have spent the day with Mrs. Frere. She is evidently eager to leave the place--as
eager as I am. Frere rejoices in his murderous power, and laughs at her expostulations. I suppose
men get tired of their wives. In my present frame of mind I am at a loss to understand how
a man could refuse a wife anything.

I do not think she can possibly care for him. I am not a selfish sentimentalist, as are the
majority of seducers. I would take no woman away from a husband for mere liking. Yet I think
there are cases in which a man who loved would be justified in making a woman happy at the
risk of his own--soul, I suppose.

Making her happy! Ay, that's the point. Would she be happy? There are few men who can endure
to be "cut", slighted, pointed at, and women suffer more than men in these regards. I, a grizzled
man of forty, am not such an arrant ass as to suppose that a year of guilty delirium can compensate
to a gently-nurtured woman for the loss of that social dignity which constitutes her best happiness.
I am not such an idiot as to forget that there may come a time when the woman I love may cease
to love me, and having no tie of self-respect, social position, or family duty, to bind her,
may inflict upon her seducer that agony which he has taught her to inflict upon her husband.
Apart from the question of the sin of breaking the seventh commandment, I doubt if the worst
husband and the most unhappy home are not better, in this social condition of ours, than the
most devoted lover. A strange subject this for a clergyman to speculate upon! If this diary
should ever fall into the hands of a real God-fearing, honest booby, who never was tempted
to sin by finding that at middle-age he loved the wife of another, how he would condemn me!
And rightly, of course.

November 4th.--In one of the turnkey's rooms in the new gaol is to be seen an article of harness,
which at first creates surprise to the mind of the beholder, who considers what animal of the
brute creation exists of so diminutive a size as to admit of its use. On inquiry, it will be
found to be a bridle, perfect in head-band, throat-lash, etc., for a human being.

I was in the gaol last evening at eight o'clock. I had been to see Rufus Dawes, and returning,
paused for a moment to speak to Hailey. Gimblett, who robbed Mr. Vane of two hundred pounds,
was present, he was at that time a turnkey, holding a third-class pass, and in receipt of two
shillings per diem. Everything was quite still. Gimblett ordered him to get up and dress himself.
Gimblett led him to the lamp-post in the yard, and I saw that the victim of his wanton tyranny
was the poor blind wretch Mooney. Gimblett placed him with his back against the lamp-post,
and his arms being taken round, were secured by handcuffs round the post. I was told that the
old man was to remain in this condition for three hours. I went at once to the Commandant.
He invited me into his drawing-room--an invitation which I had the good sense to refuse--but
refused to listen to any plea for mercy. "The old impostor is always making his blindness an
excuse for disobedience," said he.--And this is her husband.

CHAPTER IX. THE LONGEST STRAW.

Rufus Dawes hearing, when "on the chain" the next day, of the wanton torture of his friend,
uttered no threat of vengeance, but groaned only. "I am not so strong as I was," said he, as
if in apology for his lack of spirit. "They have unnerved me." And he looked sadly down at
his gaunt frame and trembling hands.

"I can't stand it no longer," said Mooney, grimly. "I've spoken to Bland, and he's of my mind.
You know what we resolved to do. Let's do it."

Rufus Dawes stared at the sightless orbs turned inquiringly to his own. The fingers of his
hand, thrust into his bosom, felt a token which lay there. A shudder thrilled him. "No, no.
Not now," he said. It ordered the procession
  carrying the statue of the saint the clergy, mixed with PP. of
  Company, which alternated with the PP. Dominicans until arrived
  at the parish church, which is the main city continuously booming
  guns, rockets and harmony music. After it arrived at the church,
  all decorated the lights neatly and very beautiful lamps, shone
  bright inside, made with bell signal for vespers, and Santo placed
  in the presbytery on a table, for it was adorned, was chanted
  by the eve point in who served our finest musicians, attending
  to them all the clergy and the PP. Jesuits and Dominicans, concluding
  ceremonies, in the same order, pomp and circumstance was taken
  the simulacrum of the Holy to our church, where he sang
  Te Deum solemnly echoing cannon fire, and music, and also the bell
  and said the usual prayers, was eventually agreed that the feast
  day. Then at Ave-Marias and end of the party, burned a
  few hundred lamp, lighted the tower parish, and also the we had
  many flags, which beat the beauty wind and mixed with the lamps.
  While the night more dark air rockets lit up the fliers and heard
  din of arms.
  
  69. The next day, from dawn, the priests who do not were at home,
  digeron Mass until 9, and later, being always the church full
  of people of all kinds of condition and state.

  After the solemn mass sung Dr. Lewis, pastor of the city, which
  long before had asked for a singular benefit received, leading
  the Vicar heavily. A sugeto of our company predicts, very well.
  Was from yesterday, and all the time of the Mass, the saint's image
  on altar in a rich gold and silver throne, glittering all
  altar with this metal, and the effigy of the saint, and especially
  the table where I was, all covered with precious stones, pearls
  and diamonds. And though all the matrons of Santa Fe together their
  wealth for this ornament, however, exceeding a certain noble woman,
  upstart kingdom of Chile, who had come to this city ​​which, as
  we had no place at the altar, placed on the steps of the chancel
  a table with a child Jesus who looked at things so precious,
  gold, diamonds, and also for the unique art with which he had prepared,
  which all snatched, leaving far behind the other Ladies patrician.
  After the solemnity of the Mass, which lasted until noon, was
  removed from the altar the effigy of the saint, and sung again Te
  Deum Parent Santo Domingo, was placed (With incredible joy
  and happiness of all the people and city, and mainly of our Fathers,
  that witnessed the repeated and solemn ringing of bells)
  in his own altar, he had prepared the afflicted Indians, who, outside
  her own beauty, was greatly adorned with jewels neighbors. Was finally
  concluded the ceremony, but not devotion, because, besides our
  Jesuit happen every day with greater fervor the powerful patronage
  of Holy against whisperers, also was not small the assistance
  of all City in distress and slander that is everywhere aroused
  against the Indians, who have been committed by God our faith and
  doctrine, and therefore also against us as defenders of this just
  cause.
  
  70. When these things happened in May in the city of Santa Faith
  in honor of the caster of Bohemia, the town of San Miguel, distinguish
  between all, was preparing to meet another similar altar (except
  the rich) its promises made to Our Lady of Loreto, whose description
  is omitted, having mentioned above: but after their order shall
  cover when we talked about what happened in July, having quietly
spent almost the rest of May and June also.

  
  
  71. We said almost quietly, because there was no hostility some,
  but not this machine left by the enemy, the rest is as always
  a trick, and although not made hostilities, are available and
  projected. For this cause, to deprive the Confederacy of the
  assistance that debian Guaranis give the infidel troops Guano
  Gentiles (the that should be taken as enemies, even though they are
friends, because anyone, not even God, keep faith) called to certain
caciques of them, and took them to a castle that was more immediately,
to persuade them what they want - which is easy getting a poor, and
eager to donecillos, gifts and ò dresses with pigtails.

  Were provided for that hard for handouts, and also (which
  among Christians is abominable forbidden by excommunication) almost
  violent with weapons, and said he, too, had corrupted or bribed.
  So then counted to our Miguelistas other chiefs of Minuanes,
  who had participated in the gift or gifts. That some of his men
  had been paid for the war and Moreira mainly one called for in the
  next expedition to guard the baggage of the Portuguese with people.
  They had a lot of clothes, weapons, and were armed, and
  be trained with cutlass for this purpose. Out of this that Portuguese,
  trusting in this hope, erected a Fuertecillo which was to serve
  as appropriate to the real prison that had to train in the mountains
  of San Miguel, close to the Santa Maria stays, which are called
  Yacegua: but also other chiefs of the nation is excused, and that
  much advance notice to his friends what had been treaty. For browsers
  that were identified after Catholics and Christians from the
  town of San Miguel, which with The garrison was in the last terms
  of jurisdiction, were to run the earth. Recorriéronla, and told
  that did not seem any enemy, and upbraiding the same Moreira,
  afeándole the fact, confessed that he had been truly call of
  the Portuguese, with gifts and asked for things sobredichas,
  but no luck that had consented: so which he had retired, having
  the Lusitano with fury, done it many threats. This he said,
  but if it were true which said it expected to test the effect, if
  offered the Used, but then so was thought.
  
  72. Also spread the Portuguese with these few things lies against
  the Indians, and that many are primarily had happened to them,
  and many teams often were fleeing the tyranny of the PP., and
  already had and numbered a few hundred of those. Pretending
  these things In order to provoke the Spanish to return to undertake
  war, but was discovered after criminals or perpetrators
  of lie, when by the hand of the Provincial of the Province Brazil
  sent the list of Indians who lived among them: some of whom were
  married, and others called for: but had no more than 50, many
  of whom had surnames town of San Borja, but they disagreed over
  the names. Is also others, which were inserted in the list by name,
  already had returned again to the peoples. The Portuguese
  went endeavoring to persuade the Spanish these things, but the
  Indians they know others, but namely, that the Father Rabago,
  (in whom they placed the Indians in any hope of human sponsorship)
had been deprived of King's confession, which had fallen from grace,
and to over this, he was arrested, but later warned of Europe, which
was deception and lies of the Portuguese.

  
  
  73. And he ended in July, when the port of Montevideo appeared
  a commercial vessel on the 27th of July, which was bringing 150
  convicts soldiers to the castle, and 70 Missionaries Company, 40
  for the province of Chile, and 31 for ours; others remained
  in Spain, which were almost as many, with the attorney who
  resides in the Court, and takes care of businesses and Misiones
  Province. In truth it does not cause All this news is little consolation,
  especially as they news filled the prosperous province, and also
  letters announcing all welcome. It seemed that was the business
  concluded, the Court had rejected the iniquitous treaty to rejoice
  or delight in our loyalty and obedience, which had accepted the
  appeal by peoples, who commanded things were suspended. So
  he told principles: but as the sad news usually follows prosperous,
  the royal commissioners reported this business quite the opposite:
  that the war was adopted as a reference to rebels, as they said,
  which is also gave thanks to Ministers for the zeal and expense
  made for sugetar to the contumacious, that things had been said
  in favor, had out of puddles, and not the source, who had to continue
  the war and had to make more raw.

  To this end were issued new decrees and intimacy to our Prelate
  immediately, crushing havoc, and threatening to take everything
  blood and fire, but surrendered the people.
  
  74. These formal notices sent to the Governor of Concepcion, Nenguirù,
  the Curia, or Council meeting domestic, because otherwise So that
  might be suspicious issue: For this, interpose the authority
  having between them, passing the River, the intimate and enacted
  in the provinces and towns forced to move. But this, not trusting
  the people angry, and anticipating and knowing that there
  was to do another thing increase mutinous troops, he returned again
  to refer to the Curia all papers, begging the prelates
  not giving rise to the province, little appeased, even fusses
  still more, or require her head, or Governor, to exposed to real
  risk of death. At rest, neglected these threats, what had been
  expected happen.
  
  75. Meanwhile throughout August, September and October, soldiers
  recruited in the cities of Spanish and Portuguese: but in
  ours, but there was no peace and quiet, and provided that, while
  things settled down, is dispatched to scouts everywhere as in the
  past, and were with more surveillance.
  
  76. In late October, or rather at the beginning of November,
  the Governor of Buenos Aires, from the wide riverbed the river, reached
the city of Montevideo, where he was to together all the Spanish army.

  Also stated that walked towards Montevideo 200 soldiers who had
  been dispatched from the city of Corrientes, and as many of the
  Santa Fe, but if this is true or not, time will tell, that Correntinos
  the 200 had not been but 80, and that others had deserted. In
  addition, between the deserters had returned to his home
  some Abipones that the commander had brought as scouts, being very
  local scouts. Also in Santa Faith, having invited the lieutenant
  for the league to the Mocobís, refused the barbarian chieftain,
  and did not respond as such, because said - that he had not
  embraced the law of Christ to war against innocent Christians,
  and rather would favor the oppressed, unless he is prevented from
  that great river.
  
  77.

  Than to each other, that is, province of Santa Fe and Corrientes,
  is I had shot the horses, and they had lost vast fields: that everywhere,
  especially in Buenos Aires, every day they died and perished by
  hundreds, and this reason some doubted the effective progress
  of the army. No However, although it is true that the Court did
  not doubt the iniquity, and also worked in the dissolution or annulment
of covenants, however, as not to send any true and Decree deliberated
whether it would suspend or continue war, the Ministers of both courts
that are here, move more active things in the war as the Spanish with
difficulty, and almost violent, were brought to this expedition and,
as they said, were bound and constrained to it for some political
reasons alone, he proceeded slowly, or tried to go slowly.

  Therefore, being well advanced November, were still in the
  city of Montevideo, and did not know whether with sincerity or with
  bending were known here, where I was, certain notices secrets,
  they did not want anything the Spanish forces but the Indians
  were opposed, burn the fields where I had to go to them
  to give occasion to excuse the default by pastures, and back, or
  at least delayed, as he reached the Cut something true. Although
  it is doubtful, not without reason, the possibility of the
  file, because grasses mature these lands, and the straw that is
  suitable for the fire, they are not for animals, but once burned,
  as soon after and turn green again, eagerly eaten by horses and
  like greatly, so it was suspected, and not in vain, for some,
  it was ploy, and that under the pretext of bringing them fear,
  he asked for, and even help the enemy especially being so burned
  fields and plains best show the way to the travelers, when at otherwise
  would be impracticable pregnant and full of weeds.

  
  78. But as there was no doubt about preparations for the expedition,
  and took the ships from Europe, It was agreed that the province
  still unprepared to prevent it was attacked by the enemy, prepare
  things here, for defense, and lookouts with more diligence roads:
  case also seemed to be fire or burn fields.
  
  79. Consisted enough, not at first lies 1.500 were Spanish,
  and the relief of the other cities, about 2,000: that the Portuguese
  were 3.000 and therefore the total was 5.000, but both armies all
  together reach 3.000, wrote the chief of these people (the Governor
  of Montevideo, which, as was said, came in place of Buenos
  Aires, and had to take care of this business) to a Jesuit friend,
  sometimes it was stone scandal, and that is no longer in that
  city: in fact the witness is competent, it by everybody. Also
  be had by Incidentally, the Spanish army was to make the journey
  from San Felipe Castle, via straight to the headwaters of
  the Rio Black, and towards the payment of Santa Tecla, term and
  watch the Michael, and that there had to penetrate large rodeos,
  deserted by province until a fortress Portuguese Yacuy located
  on the river, which shortly before had no name, and now for
  the invasion that they were frustrated the Indians call it (but
  evil) Fort Victoria, and finally joined forces, had to walk to town
  San Angel. This was determined by the Council of both nations,
  and Although these findings seemed to the cowboys or experts
  the roads very violent, and almost impassable in execution,
  yet it was to provide all appropriate things, and fools to guard
  against efforts near misses or the Portuguese. Debalde not
  joined the captains, running and January, and although not felt
  any movement of enemy determined well in advance however,
  that all people neighboring villages gather together and come
  to the rescue. And then letters and dispatched a courier
  to the de la Concepcion and Santo Tomé, where these were to later
send to the other peoples to come closer, and verifications explorers
everywhere, mainly because I do not know the yerbales they made enemies:
I suspect that the fires that had been lest any irruption machines,
or who composed the roads.

  Then the point was for ten Johannine, and almost as
  many of San Angel, that were towards the mountains where they would
  make high, and the town of San Miguel, a captain field was on
  duty in Santa Tecla, to be warned their own state in which things
  were: it was said which menaced the enemy that part, and already
  there were two months walking, namely, from December 5.

80.
  When this time all this equipment seemed to be left in views or measures,
and partly confirming the coming of the enemy with emails everyday
of, and cures were asleep or in inaction, some people began to move
business, stating that one should not go neglected, and debian is
gather troops and dispatch them to the list terms of jurisdiction,
not to enter the enemy to remote fields of the farms or calves, and
destroying them killing, without being punished, and not block anyone.

  With got this difficulty, after many reasons exposed: to wit, the
  army would be late for leave the meeting from almost 100
  miles away, if then began to gather troops, when the enemy undertaken,
  that the enemy could tread it all, and actual Portuguese would
  walk straight path through the rooms that would destroy,
  they would close the communication to the Indians, and would take
  away the food, the lack of which is already beginning to feel, and
  finally it's always better to attack the enemy first that being
  attacked him. For these reasons he finally succeeded in dispatched
  nine post or posts, which everywhere alert and inclined to
  join the Confederates. Also the captain of the Concepcion was
  already a party of 150 men in their stays confined to those of
  San Miguel, and to complete this item is retted another 60 of the
  people. Put in motion to the auxiliary squadrons, which were
  to come from Santana villages of San Carlos and Los Angeles,
  60, des Martyrs, 60, of San Javier, and Santa Maria, 30. Suddenly
  arranged on that side of things, put the captain who had
  it removed shortly before, having returned to home its people,
  who were scattered throughout various peoples, it was believed
  that the Council had acted this home moving, then surti good effect.

81.
  On the other peoples of Uruguay, such as warnings that the post
  shortly before and already had sent back, who had not rumor,
  nor felt the enemy were hurrying to wait the armies of other
  nations. But, to January 20 was unexpectedly mail, which warned
  that the day 16 of month in the headwaters of Black River, that
  part which is a narrow entrance, between the Black and Yacuy rivers,
  in land San Miguel, which entrance or door of the earth called
  Ibiroqué Indians, had appeared to the Spanish army when least
  expected, that having seen five explorers, had confessed that they
  came to Spanish 2.000 wait till the Portuguese.
  

He started. "A bold game."

"Bold! Nonsense! The only safe one. People don't, as a rule, suspect unless one is mysterious.
You must do it; I have arranged for your doing it. The waiters here all know me as your wife.
There is not the least danger--unless, indeed, you are married already?" she added, with a
quick and angry suspicion.

"You need not be alarmed. I was not such a fool as to marry another woman while you were alive--had
I even seen one I would have cared to marry. But what of Lady Devine? You say you have told her."

"I have told her to communicate with Mrs. Carr, Post Office, Torquay, in order to hear something
to her advantage. If you had been rebellious, John, the 'something' would have been a letter
from me telling her who you really are. Now you have proved obedient, the 'something' will
be a begging letter of a sort which she has already received hundreds, and which in all probability
she will not even answer. What do you think of that, Mr. Richard Devine?"

"You deserve success, Sarah," said the old schemer, in genuine admiration. "By Jove, this is
something like the old days, when we were Mr. and Mrs. Crofton."

"Or Mr. and Mrs. Skinner, eh, John?" she said, with as much tenderness in her voice as though
she had been a virtuous matron recalling her honeymoon. "That was an unlucky name, wasn't it,
dear? You should have taken my advice there." And immersed in recollection of their past rogueries,
the worthy pair pensively smiled. Rex was the first to awake from that pleasant reverie.

"I will be guided by you, then," he said. "What next?"

"Next--for, as you say, my presence doubles the danger--we will contrive to withdraw quietly
from England. The introduction to your mother over, and Mr. Francis disposed of, we will go
to Hampstead, and live there for a while. During that time you must turn into cash as much
property as you dare. We will then go abroad for the 'season'--and stop there. After a year
or so on the Continent you can write to our agent to sell more property; and, finally, when
we are regarded as permanent absentees--and three or four years will bring that about--we will
get rid of everything, and slip over to America. Then you can endow a charity if you like,
or build a church to the memory of the man you have displaced."

John Rex burst into a laugh. "An excellent plan. I like the idea of the charity--the Devine
Hospital, eh?"

"By the way, how did you find out the particulars of this man's life. He was burned in the
Hydaspes, wasn't he?"

"No," said Rex, with an air of pride. "He was transported in the Malabar under the name of
Rufus Dawes. You remember him. It is a long story. The particulars weren't numerous, and if
the old lady had been half sharp she would have bowled me out. But the fact was she wanted
to find the fellow alive, and was willing to take a good deal on trust. I'll tell you all about
it another time. I think I'll go to bed now; I'm tired, and my head aches as though it would
split."

"Then it is decided that you follow my directions?"

"Yes."

She rose and placed her hand on the bell. "What are you going to do?" he said uneasily.

"I am going to do nothing. You are going to telegraph to your servants to have the house in
London prepared for your wife, who will return with you the day after to-morrow."

John Rex stayed her hand with a sudden angry gesture. "This is all devilish fine," he said,
"but suppose it fails?"

"That is your affair, John. You need not go on with this business at all, unless you like.
I had rather you didn't."

"What the deuce am I to do, then?"

"I am not as rich as you are, but, with my station and so on, I am worth seven thousand a year.
Come back to Australia with me, and let these poor people enjoy their own again. Ah, John,
it is the best thing to do, believe me. We can afford to be honest now."

"A fine scheme!" cried he. "Give up half a million of money, and go back to Australia! You
must be mad!"

"Then telegraph."

"But, my dear--"

"Hush, here's the waiter."

As he wrote, John Rex felt gloomily that, though he had succeeded in recalling her affection,
that affection was as imperious as of yore.

CHAPTER XI. EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF THE REV. JAMES NORTH.

December 7th.--I have made up my mind to leave this place, to bury myself again in the bush,
I suppose, and await extinction. I try to think that the reason for this determination is the
frightful condition of misery existing among the prisoners; that because I am daily horrified
and sickened by scenes of torture and infamy, I decide to go away; that, feeling myself powerless
to save others, I wish to spare myself. But in this journal, in which I bind myself to write
nothing but truth, I am forced to confess that these are not the reasons. I will write the
reason plainly: "I covet my neighbour's wife." It does not look well thus written. It looks
hideous. In my own breast I find numberless excuses for my passion. I said to myself, "My neighbour
does not love his wife, and her unloved life is misery. She is forced to live in the frightful
seclusion of this accursed island, and she is dying for want of companionship. She feels that
I understand and appreciate her, that I could love her as she deserves, that I could render
her happy. I feel that I have met the only woman who has power to touch my heart, to hold me
back from the ruin into which I am about to plunge, to make me useful to my fellows--a man,
and not a drunkard." Whispering these conclusions to myself, I am urged to brave public opinion,
and make two lives happy. I say to myself, or rather my desires say to me--"What sin is there
in this? Adultery? No; for a marriage without love is the coarsest of all adulteries. What
tie binds a man and woman together--that formula of license pronounced by the priest, which
the law has recognized as a 'legal bond'? Surely not this only, for marriage is but a partnership--a
contract of mutual fidelity--and in all contracts the violation of the terms of the agreement
by one of the contracting persons absolves the other. Mrs. Frere is then absolved, by her husband's
act. I cannot but think so. But is she willing to risk the shame of divorce or legal offence?
Perhaps. Is she fitted by temperament to bear such a burden of contumely as must needs fall
upon her? Will she not feel disgust at the man who entrapped her into shame? Do not the comforts
which surround her compensate for the lack of affections?" And so the torturing catechism continues,
until I am driven mad with doubt, love, and despair.

Of course I am wrong; of course I outrage my character as a priest; of course I endanger--according
to the creed I teach--my soul and hers. But priests, unluckily, have hearts and passions as
well as other men. Thank God, as yet, I have never expressed my madness in words. What a fate
is mine! When I am in her presence I am in torment; when I am absent from her my imagination
pictures her surrounded by a thousand graces that are not hers, but belong to all the women
of my dreams--to Helen, to Juliet, to Rosalind. Fools that we are of our own senses! When I
think of her I blush; when I hear her name my heart leaps, and I grow pale. Love! What is the
love of two pure souls, scarce conscious of the Paradise into which they have fallen, to this
maddening delirium? I can understand the poison of Circe's cup; it is the sweet-torment of
a forbidden love like mine! Away gross materialism, in which I have so long schooled myself!
I, who laughed at passion as the outcome of temperament and easy living--I, who thought in
my intellect, to sound all the depths and shoals of human feeling--I, who analysed my own soul--scoffed
at my own yearnings for an immortality--am forced to deify the senseless power of my creed,
and believe in God, that I may pray to Him. I know now why men reject the cold impersonality
that reason tells us rules the world--it is because they love. To die, and be no more; to die,
and rendered into dust, be blown about the earth; to die and leave our love defenceless and
forlorn, till the bright soul that smiled to ours is smothered in the earth that made it! No!
To love is life eternal. God, I believe in Thee! Aid me! Pity me! Sinful wretch that I am,
to have denied Thee! See me on my knees before Thee! Pity me, or let me die!

December 9th.--I have been visiting the two condemned prisoners, Dawes and Bland, and praying
with them. O Lord, let me save one soul that may plead with Thee for mine! Let me draw one
being alive out of this pit! I weep--I weary Thee with my prayers, O Lord! Look down upon me.
Grant me a sign. Thou didst it in old times to men who were not more fervent in their supplications
than am I. So says Thy Book. Thy Book which I believe--which I believe. Grant me a sign--one
little sign, O Lord!--I will not see her. I have sworn it. Thou knowest my grief--my agony--my
despair. Thou knowest why I love her. Thou knowest how I strive to make her hate me. Is that
not a sacrifice? I am so lonely--a lonely man, with but one creature that he loves--yet, what
is mortal love to Thee? Cruel and implacable, Thou sittest in the heavens men have built for
Thee, and scornest them! Will not all the burnings and slaughters of the saints appease Thee?
Art Thou not sated with blood and tears, O God of vengeance, of wrath, and of despair! Kind
Christ, pity me. Thou wilt--for Thou wast human! Blessed Saviour, at whose feet knelt the Magdalen!
Divinity, who, most divine in Thy despair, called on Thy cruel God to save Thee--by the memory
of that moment when Thou didst deem Thyself forsaken--forsake not me! Sweet Christ, have mercy
on Thy sinful servant.

I can write no more. I will pray to Thee with my lips. I will shriek my supplications to Thee.
I will call upon Thee so loud that all the world shall hear me, and wonder at Thy silence--unjust
and unmerciful God!

December 14th.--What blasphemies are these which I have uttered in my despair? Horrible madness
that has left me prostrate, to what heights of frenzy didst thou not drive my soul! Like him
of old time, who wandered among the tombs, shrieking and tearing himself, I have been possessed
by a devil. For a week I have been unconscious of aught save torture. I have gone about my
daily duties as one who in his dreams repeats the accustomed action of the day, and knows it
not. Men have looked at me strangely. They look at me strangely now. Can it be that my disease
of drunkenness has become the disease of insanity? Am I mad, or do I but verge on madness?
O Lord, whom in my agonies I have confessed, leave me my intellect--let me not become a drivelling
spectacle for the curious to point at or to pity! At least, in mercy, spare me a little. Let
not my punishment overtake me here. Let her memories of me be clouded with a sense of my rudeness
or my brutality; let me for ever seem to her the ungrateful ruffian I strive to show myself--but
let her not behold me--that!

CHAPTER XII. THE STRANGE BEHAVIOUR OF Mr. NORTH.

On or about the 8th of December, Mrs. Frere noticed a sudden and unaccountable change in the
manner of the chaplain. He came to her one afternoon, and, after talking for some time, in
a vague and unconnected manner, about the miseries of the prison and the wretched condition
of some of the prisoners, began to question her abruptly concerning Rufus Dawes.

"I do not wish to think of him," said she, with a shudder. "I have the strangest, the most
horrible dreams about him. He is a bad man. He tried to murder me when a child, and had it
not been for my husband, he would have done so. I have only seen him once since then--at Hobart
Town, when he was taken." "He sometimes speaks to me of you," said North, eyeing her. "He asked
me once to give him a rose plucked in your garden."

Sylvia turned pale. "And you gave it him?"

"Yes, I gave it him. Why not?"

"It was valueless, of course, but still--to a convict?"

"You are not angry?"

"Oh, no! Why should I be angry?" she laughed constrainedly. "It was a strange fancy for the
man to have, that's all."

"I suppose you would not give me another rose, if I asked you."

"Why not?" said she, turning away uneasily. "You? You are a gentleman."

"Not I--you don't know me."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that it would be better for you if you had never seen me."

"Mr. North!" Terrified at the wild gleam in his eyes, she had risen hastily. "You are talking
very strangely."

"Oh, don't be alarmed, madam. I am not drunk!"--he pronounced the word with a fierce energy.
"I had better leave you. Indeed, I think the less we see of each other the better."

Deeply wounded and astonished at this extraordinary outburst, Sylvia allowed him to stride
away without a word. She saw him pass through the garden and slam the little gate, but she
did not see the agony on his face, or the passionate gesture with which--when out of eyeshot--he
lamented the voluntary abasement of himself before her. She thought over his conduct with growing
fear. It was not possible that he was intoxicated--such a vice was the last one of which she
could have believed him guilty. It was more probable that some effects of the fever, which
had recently confined him to his house, yet lingered. So she thought; and, thinking, was alarmed
to realize of how much importance the well-being of this man was to her.

The next day he met her, and, bowing, passed swiftly. This pained her. Could she have offended
him by some unlucky word? She made Maurice ask him to dinner, and, to her astonishment, he
pleaded illness as an excuse for not coming. Her pride was hurt, and she sent him back his
books and music. A curiosity that was unworthy of her compelled her to ask the servant who
carried the parcel what the clergyman had said. "He said nothing--only laughed." Laughed! In
scorn of her foolishness! His conduct was ungentlemanly and intemperate. She would forget,
as speedily as possible, that such a being had ever existed. This resolution taken, she was
unusually patient with her husband.

So a week passed, and Mr. North did not return. Unluckily for the poor wretch, the very self-sacrifice
he had made brought about the precise condition of things which he was desirous to avoid. It
is possible that, had the acquaintance between them continued on the same staid footing, it
would have followed the lot of most acquaintanceships of the kind--other circumstances and
other scenes might have wiped out the memory of all but common civilities between them, and
Sylvia might never have discovered that she had for the chaplain any other feeling but that
of esteem. But the very fact of the sudden wrenching away of her soul-companion, showed her
how barren was the solitary life to which she had been fated. Her husband, she had long ago
admitted, with bitter self-communings, was utterly unsuited to her. She could find in his society
no enjoyment, and for the sympathy which she needed was compelled to turn elsewhere. She understood
that his love for her had burnt itself out--she confessed, with intensity of self-degradation,
that his apparent affection had been born of sensuality, and had perished in the fires it had
itself kindled. Many women have, unhappily, made some such discovery as this, but for most
women there is some distracting occupation. Had it been Sylvia's fate to live in the midst
of fashion and society, she would have found relief in the conversation of the witty, or the
homage of the distinguished. Had fortune cast her lot in a city, Mrs. Frere might have become
one of those charming women who collect around their supper-tables whatever of male intellect
is obtainable, and who find the husband admirably useful to open his own champagne bottles.
The celebrated women who have stepped out of their domestic circles to enchant or astonish
the world, have almost invariably been cursed with unhappy homes. But poor Sylvia was not destined
to this fortune. Cast back upon herself, she found no surcease of pain in her own imaginings,
and meeting with a man sufficiently her elder to encourage her to talk, and sufficiently clever
to induce her to seek his society and his advice, she learnt, for the first time, to forget
her own griefs; for the first time she suffered her nature to expand under the sun of a congenial
influence. This sun, suddenly withdrawn, her soul, grown accustomed to the warmth and light,
shivered at the gloom, and she looked about her in dismay at the dull and barren prospect of
life which lay before her. In a word, she found that the society of North had become so far
necessary to her that to be deprived of it was a grief--notwithstanding that her husband remained
to console her.

After a week of such reflections, the barrenness of life grew insupportable to her, and one
day she came to Maurice and begged to be sent back to Hobart Town. "I cannot live in this horrible
island," she said. "I am getting ill. Let me go to my father for a few months, Maurice." Maurice
consented. His wife was looking ill, and Major Vickers was an old man--a rich old man--who
loved his only daughter. It was not undesirable that Mrs. Frere should visit her father; indeed,
so little sympathy was there between the pair that, the first astonishment over, Maurice felt
rather glad to get rid of her for a while. 

Don Braulio himself prepared his case helped by his wife.

During the meal appeared happy and even more talkative than usual.

At a time when left alone Beatriz Don Braulio Inesita Don Braulio
told it that when he came back the place he would bring Paco to view
and hoped that they had to taste and had to marry to escape.

Paco had not come yet, even though I wanted, I wanted to let all arranged many things, and raise funds
to buy trinkets and charms that give his future.

In a word, Don Braulio did so well that it aroused in the minds of Dona Beatriz or his cute little
sister the slightest suspicion that his unexpected and sudden determination could be due to an
bitter spite, or by phone and purpose is nothing sinister or tragic.

Both sisters struggled to accompany Don Braulio to the station, but
Don Braulio opposed, arguing that it was an inconvenience they wanted
to be useless.

Thus, although just barely, those persuaded to stay and not go to
see him off.

When it came time to leave, Don Braulio he brought a buggy through
the intercom, who dropped the suitcase and placed it on him.

Doña Beatriz affectionately embraced and kissed her husband, and he
corresponded with no less affection.

- Take care of yourself, Braulio,
and returns as soon as possible - Beatriz said.

- Farewell, my dear.

I'll be back soon - said Don Braulio.

Then down the stairs, seeing off both sisters, to the door, at least
had accompanied him.

Soon there was shooting the car was Don Braulio.

Beatrice and Agnes
went back into the room and sat by the brazier, a front another.

-
What precipitation trip! - Beatriz said simply.

- Paco Is he sick?
- Said Ines -. Maybe because I'm sick call and Braulio not what we
meant.

- Do not believe it, Ines - replied Dona Beatriz -. Braulio
knows not hide anything. This act of
baseness--or profound nobleness--achieved its purpose. Sylvia noticed the unhappy priest no
more. Between the Commandant and the chaplain now arose a coolness, and Frere set himself,
by various petty tyrannies, to disgust North, and compel him to a resignation of his office.
The convict-gaolers speedily marked the difference in the treatment of the chaplain, and their
demeanour changed. For respect was substituted insolence; for alacrity, sullenness; for prompt
obedience, impertinent intrusion. The men whom North favoured were selected as special subjects
for harshness, and for a prisoner to be seen talking to the clergyman was sufficient to ensure
for him a series of tyrannies. The result of this was that North saw the souls he laboured
to save slipping back into the gulf; beheld the men he had half won to love him meet him with
averted faces; discovered that to show interest in a prisoner was to injure him, not to serve
him. The unhappy man grew thinner and paler under this ingenious torment. He had deprived himself
of that love which, guilty though it might be, was, nevertheless, the only true love he had
known; and he found that, having won this victory, he had gained the hatred of all living creatures
with whom he came in contact. The authority of the Commandant was so supreme that men lived
but by the breath of his nostrils. To offend him was to perish and the man whom the Commandant
hated must be hated also by all those who wished to exist in peace. There was but one being
who was not to be turned from his allegiance--the convict murderer, Rufus Dawes, who awaited
death. For many days he had remained mute, broken down beneath his weight of sorrow or of sullenness;
but North, bereft of other love and sympathy, strove with that fighting soul, if haply he might
win it back to peace. It seemed to the fancy of the priest--a fancy distempered, perhaps, by
excess, or superhumanly exalted by mental agony--that this convict, over whom he had wept,
was given to him as a hostage for his own salvation. "I must save him or perish," he said.
"I must save him, though I redeem him with my own blood."

Frere, unable to comprehend the reason of the calmness with which the doomed felon met his
taunts and torments, thought that he was shamming piety to gain some indulgence of meat and
drink, and redoubled his severity. He ordered Dawes to be taken out to work just before the
hour at which the chaplain was accustomed to visit him. He pretended that the man was "dangerous",
and directed a gaoler to be present at all interviews, "lest the chaplain might be murdered".
He issued an order that all civil officers should obey the challenges of convicts acting as
watchmen; and North, coming to pray with his penitent, would be stopped ten times by grinning
felons, who, putting their faces within a foot of his, would roar out, "Who goes there?" and
burst out laughing at the reply. Under pretence of watching more carefully over the property
of the chaplain, he directed that any convict, acting as constable, might at any time "search
everywhere and anywhere" for property supposed to be in the possession of a prisoner. The chaplain's
servant was a prisoner, of course; and North's drawers were ransacked twice in one week by
Troke. North met these impertinences with unruffled brow, and Frere could in no way account
for his obstinacy, until the arrival of the Lady Franklin explained the chaplain's apparent
coolness. He had sent in his resignation two months before, and the saintly Meekin had been
appointed in his stead. Frere, unable to attack the clergyman, and indignant at the manner
in which he had been defeated, revenged himself upon Rufus Dawes.

CHAPTER XIII. MR. NORTH SPEAKS.

The method and manner of Frere's revenge became a subject of whispered conversation on the
island. It was reported that North had been forbidden to visit the convict, but that he had
refused to accept the prohibition, and by a threat of what he would do when the returning vessel
had landed him in Hobart Town, had compelled the Commandant to withdraw his order. The Commandant,
however, speedily discovered in Rufus Dawes signs of insubordination, and set to work again
to reduce still further the "spirit" he had so ingeniously "broken". The unhappy convict was
deprived of food, was kept awake at nights, was put to the hardest labour, was loaded with
the heaviest irons. Troke, with devilish malice, suggested that, if the tortured wretch would
decline to see the chaplain, some amelioration of his condition might be effected; but his
suggestions were in vain. Fully believing that his death was certain, Dawes clung to North
as the saviour of his agonized soul, and rejected all such insidious overtures. Enraged at
this obstinacy, Frere sentenced his victim to the "spread eagle" and the "stretcher".

Now the rumour of the obduracy of this undaunted convict who had been recalled to her by the
clergyman at their strange interview, had reached Sylvia's ears. She had heard gloomy hints
of the punishments inflicted on him by her husband's order, and as--constantly revolving in
her mind was that last conversation with the chaplain--she wondered at the prisoner's strange
fancy for a flower, her brain began to thrill with those undefined and dreadful memories which
had haunted her childhood. What was the link between her and this murderous villain? How came
it that she felt at times so strange a sympathy for his fate, and that he--who had attempted
her life--cherished so tender a remembrance of her as to beg for a flower which her hand had
touched?

She questioned her husband concerning the convict's misdoings, but with the petulant brutality
which he invariably displayed when the name of Rufus Dawes intruded itself into their conversation,
Maurice Frere harshly refused to satisfy her. This but raised her curiosity higher. She reflected
how bitter he had always seemed against this man--she remembered how, in the garden at Hobart
Town, the hunted wretch had caught her dress with words of assured confidence--she recollected
the fragment of cloth he passionately flung from him, and which her affianced lover had contemptuously
tossed into the stream. The name of "Dawes", detested as it had become to her, bore yet some
strange association of comfort and hope. What secret lurked behind the twilight that had fallen
upon her childish memories? Deprived of the advice of North--to whom, a few weeks back, she
would have confided her misgivings--she resolved upon a project that, for her, was most distasteful.
She would herself visit the gaol and judge how far the rumours of her husband's cruelty were
worthy of credit.

One sultry afternoon, when the Commandant had gone on a visit of inspection, Troke, lounging
at the door of the New Prison, beheld, with surprise, the figure of the Commandant's lady.

"What is it, mam?" he asked, scarcely able to believe his eyes.

"I want to see the prisoner Dawes."

Troke's jaw fell.

"See Dawes?" he repeated.

"Yes. Where is he?"

Troke was preparing a lie. The imperious voice, and the clear, steady gaze, confused him.

 "He's here."

"Let me see him."

"He's--he's under punishment, mam."

"What do you mean? Are they flogging him?"

"No; but he's dangerous, mam. The Commandant--"

"Do you mean to open the door or not, Mr. Troke?"

Troke grew more confused. It was evident that he was most unwilling to open the door. "The
Commandant has given strict orders--"

"Do you wish me to complain to the Commandant?" cries Sylvia, with a touch of her old spirit,
and jumped hastily at the conclusion that the gaolers were, perhaps, torturing the convict
for their own entertainment. "Open the door at once!--at once!"

Thus commanded, Troke, with a hasty growl of its "being no affair of his, and he hoped Mrs.
Frere would tell the captain how it happened" flung open the door of a cell on the right hand
of the doorway. It was so dark that, at first, Sylvia could distinguish nothing but the outline
of a framework, with something stretched upon it that resembled a human body. Her first thought
was that the man was dead, but this was not so--he groaned. Her eyes, accustoming themselves
to the gloom, began to see what the "punishment" was. Upon the floor was placed an iron frame
about six feet long, and two and a half feet wide, with round iron bars, placed transversely,
about twelve inches apart. The man she came to seek was bound in a horizontal position upon
this frame, with his neck projecting over the end of it. If he allowed his head to hang, the
blood rushed to his brain, and suffocated him, while the effort to keep it raised strained
every muscle to agony pitch. His face was purple, and he foamed at the mouth. Sylvia uttered
a cry. "This is no punishment; it's murder! Who ordered this?"

"The Commandant," said Troke sullenly.

"I don't believe it. Loose him!"

"I daren't mam," said Troke.

"Loose him, I say! Hailey!--you, sir, there!" The noise had brought several warders to the
spot. "Do you hear me? Do you know who I am? Loose him, I say!" In her eagerness and compassion
she was on her knees by the side of the infernal machine, plucking at the ropes with her delicate
fingers. "Wretches, you have cut his flesh! He is dying! Help! You have killed him!" The prisoner,
in fact, seeing this angel of mercy stooping over him, and hearing close to him the tones of
a voice that for seven years he had heard but in his dreams, had fainted. Troke and Hailey,
alarmed by her vehemence, dragged the stretcher out into the light, and hastily cut the lashings. On
several occasions left the field lines with orders to exterminate them, but the bandits as they fought
in order, the pursuers were forced to back groups, returning battered and with some losses
to the city.

Rare was the raid by bandits in the capital as they are not carried away some Newfoundland, returned
a few days after it hit and the close-cropped head. With women Newfoundland also did the same,
and more. One night Hallab the queen of the home delight the brotherhood, when suddenly presented
the gang, struck his majesty with it and committed outrages, such that flying, flying and took
a few days to pantheon. The throne was vacant, there was none to covet it for fear of consequences;
which resulted in the discrediting of the tribe and gave prominence to the other guilds, party enthusiasts
Rey del Monte, who was known title with the black son of Salome breast, Captain phalanx of the damned.

To
some popularity contributed to the King of Monte lies and truths
about him were counted.

Only the rich were victims of their robberies, and its share of the spoils shared between
the poor rider who had not exceeded, and as for his courage and achievements, referíanse of him
so many stories that eventually the people began to look like a legendary figure.

So great was the terror that the famous bandit, even inspired, the most powerful landowners, to be
free from attack, became his feudal lords, paying a monthly contribution in money and supplies to
support the band.

In vain he sent the viceroy placed on the road posts with posters offering four thousand dollars
by the head of the King of Mt. And they spent months and years running, and convinced the authority
that the use of force could not catch the very mischievous, always
slipped away from the better prepared ambush, decided to resort to
treachery.

Nothing more treacherous than love. A jet Dalila promised to hand tied the new Samson and his
top Philistines.

Overlooking bare details of interest, say that one night, being the
King of Between the dense mountain forest, accompanied by his bribes
and four or six of their own, Delilah took care of drunk, and time
prearranged in the forest penetrated the soldiers.

El Rey del Monte awoke to the noise, jumped on his blunderbuss, aimed,
and the gun did not fire.

Then, guessing instinctively that she had betrayed him, took his
blunderbuss by the barrel and let it fall heavily upon the unfortunate,
which collapsed with the skull crushed.

III

Manuc THE PARLAMPÁN

If there were men in Lima to vir bonus reputation or poor devil, that was undoubtedly the Mañuco
black.

They called him the Parlampán because bullfighting puppet appeared
dressed in the masquerade or parlampanes crew and desempeñábase with
such wit that had conquered no small populachería.

One evening they showed in the ring taking in the body than the usual spirits, she picked the
bull, and brought him on a stretcher to hospital.

Came the surgeon recognized the wound, shook his head muttering malorum, after the surgeon den went
to the chaplain, and heard confessions of Mañuco.

She lived the unhappy forty-eight hours, and while he had not cried
out encouragement:

- Gentlemen, "take my advice: bar and lock ...
lock ... no, better not worth a fag ... no key for the whole sheet
..., bar and bolt, and then sleep in a leg Loose ...

Both repeated
the council, the treasurer of the hospital of St. Andrew thought that
this was not son of delirium, but the cry of conscience, and went
to the mayor of the district with the story.

This dug out enough to clear that Mañuco the bird was Parlampán account
and so skillful in handling the pick that he was not safe plate, even
had one hundred latches.

Item, the authority found that honest Mañuco was the right arm Rey
del Monte for domestic burglary.

As you know, my readers: bar bolt.

Now conclude with His Majesty the King.

IV

WHERE YOU CAN SEE FOR EVERYTHING THERE IS A HOMER ACHILLES

Vast was the crowd that occupied the Plaza Mayor of Lima in the morning of October 13, 1815.

Everyone wanted to meet a bandit who stole a labor of love, sharing
with the poor that which robbed the rich.

  

El Rey del Monte and three
of his companions were
sentenced to death by hanging.

The
wooden Jan fateful stood in
the usual place, opposite
the alley developer.

The viceroy Abascal, who had received several warnings that groups
of people were preparing to build a mutiny to free the convicted,
troops surrounded the square with real and civic militias.

The excitement did not happen in waves and snarls, and the murderer
quietly filled Pancho Sales their duties.

The next day he sold the real price of a tawdry romance silver, which recounted Gongora an exaggerated
the exploits of the hanging. Eulogistic romance of sufficient merit to give an idea of ​​this
passage:

More than king of the mountains Cid for his courage was tremendous, Luckily, in the fight, by generous
manner; Roldan-skinned African Challenger thousand risk not paid
bravery DIDES but he surrendered.

Of course, that the poet ran and caught good editing rooms.

HISTORIC THREE QUESTIONS ON PIZARRO

"DID OR DID NOT WRITE? Was or was not "MARQUIS DE Atavillos? WHAT WAS AND WHERE IS YOUR Banner
of war?

I

Are multifarious and conflicting historical views on whether Pizarro knew or not write, and
brainy and thorough chroniclers assert that even knew the round-Or. This has been generalized the
story that while Atahualpa in Cajamarca prison, one of the soldiers who guarding the nail wrote
the word God.

The prisoner showed the letter to all visited him, and finding that all but Pizarro, successful
run to decipher the signs, was from that moment unless the head of the conquest, and considered
it inferior to last of the Spanish.

Deducted from this evil and passionate writers felt that Don Francisco hurt his pride, and that
shrimp is so childish revenge of the Inca making slaughter.

Hard to believe that we who man with the cream of Spanish nobility,
because bulls speared in the presence of Queen Juana and their court,
acquiring for their gallantry and skills of chopping so enduring fame
as that years later conquered by their exploits in Peru; hard is,
again, imagine that would have been lazy to the point to ignore the
alphabet, all the more as Pizarro but tough soldier, he learned to
estimate and distinguished men of letters.

Furthermore, in the century the Emperor Charles V was neglected as well as in the previous instruction.
Was not sustained and that they can read and write was itself of second and friars, and began to cause
laughter is the formula used by the Catholic Monarchs in the parchment that graced the nobles
who were at the mercy of valets name, title much or more coveted
than the habit of the orders of Santiago, Montesa, Alcantara and Calatrava.

One of the curious phrases that say what you want in hand, holds much
as offensive to the dignity of man, was as follows: "And because you
(the Palotes Perico) we have tried not to read or write and be expeditious
in handling the needle, we come in the name you real help from our
house, etc.. "

Pedro Sanchez and Francisco de Jerez, secretary of Pizarro, before Antonio Picado play such employment,
have left some news on its head, and of them, far from being suspected
of such supreme ignorance, it appears that the governor read letters.

However, Montesinos relates in his Annals of Peru in 1525, Pizarro set out to learn to read, that
his effort was sterile, and contented just to learn to sign. This Reíase Almagro, and added that
sign without knowing how to read was the same as receiving a wound
without being able to give.

Almagro Being Old is historically proven that point was unable to read.

What we do is for us no doubt, as it is for the illustrious Quintana, is that Don Francisco Pizarro
was unable to write, much as the opinion of his contemporaries do not walk even at this point.
Sufficient to keep an eye test the contract held company in Panama, March 10, 1525, between the cleric
Luque, Pizarro and Almagro, literally ending thus: "And they know not to sign the said Captain
Francisco Pizarro and Diego de Almagro, signed by them in the record of this letter and Alvaro
Juan de Panes of Quiro. "

A historian of the last century said:

"In the Church of Lima file I found several signed decrees and instruments of Marquis (in graceful
letter), who showed it to several people, comparing a signature with
others astonished at the boldness of the slander their enemies who
tried to disgrace and belittle, and retaliating against this great
master's own passions and legacy.

"

In contrast to this, Zarate and other chroniclers say that Pizarro could do only two headings and
in the midst of them, the secretary put these words: The Marquis
Francisco Pizarro.

Pizarro documents I have seen in the Library of Lima, manuscripts section, have all the two
headings. In a few reads Franx º. Picarro, and very few The Marquis. In Stock National and the
Chapter are also a number of these autographs.

Putting an end to the question whether or not to sign Pizarro knew I decide in the negative,
and here is the conclusive reason for that I have:

In the Archivo General de Indias, which was established in the Casa de Contratación in Seville there
are several letters in which, as in the documents that we have in Lima, it is recognized until
the least understood in paleography, the letter of the firm is sometimes
the same hand the hangers or scribe who wrote the document body.

"But if you doubt cupiese - adds a distinguished writer from Buenos Aires, Vicente Quesada,
who in 1874 visited the Archives of the Indies - I've seen in a report, in which Pizarro declared
as a witness, the clerk testifies that, after giving the statement, said with the signals used to
do, while in other statements attesting witnesses that the sign of
their presence.

"

II

Don Francisco Pizarro was not Marquis of Marquis Atavillos or ponds,
and a variety many writers call it.

There is no any official document that can be checked these securities, or the same Pizarro, the
head and side orders, used another dictation than this: The Marquis.

In support of our belief, we cite the words of Gonzalo Pizarro when a prisoner Gasca, he rebuked him
for his rebellion and ingratitude to the king, who both had distinguished and honored to Don
Francisco - The grant that his majesty did to my brother was only
the title Marquis name and without giving any state, if not tell me
what it is.

The flag and arms of the Marquis Pizarro was: Shield made tablecloth: the first hand, in gold,
black eagle, columns and water, and red, house of gold, train of eight wolves, gold, the second
part, made in red cloth, gold castle with a crown and silver, red lion with an F, and below,
in silver, red lion, in the bottom, silver field, eleven heads of Indians and the middle crowned;
total border with chains and eight taps, gold the bell, Colonel Marquis.

In a letter dated October 10, 1537 Charles V sent to Pizarro, read these concepts that energize
our claim: "Meanwhile you shall be called the Marquis, as I write it, that, not knowing the
name that will land on allotment shall be given, not sent that title, "and as to the arrival
of Vaca de Castro had not been identified by the crown lands and vassals who constitute the Marquis,
it is clear that Don Francisco was but Marquis to dry, or without Marquis Marquis, as he said
his brother Gonzalo.

We know that Pizarro had in Dona Angelina, daughter of Atahualpa,
a child who is baptized with the name of Francisco, who died before
age fifteen.

In Dona Ines Huaylas or Yupanqui, daughter of Manco Capac, had a daughter, Dona Francisca, who married
in Spain in early married her uncle Hernando, and then Don Pedro
Arias.

By royal charter, and if there was no marriage to Angelina or Dona
Dona Ines, were declared legitimate children of Pizarro. If this had
been such a title of Marquis of Atavillos, habríanlo inherited their
descendants. It was almost a century later, in 1628, when Don Juan
Fernando Pizarro, grandson of Dona Francisca, King won the title of
Marquis of Conquest.

Piferrer, in Spanish Nobility, said that, according
to genealogists, was very old and illustrious the lineage of Pizarro,
that some of the distinguished name with Pelayo in Covadonga, and
then their descendants dwelt in Aragón, Navarra and Extremadura. He
concludes stamping that weapons are lineage Pizarro "golden shield
and gold pine cones together two wolves empinantes to it and two boards
at the foot of the throne. " These genealogists paint them to invent
and linked lineages. To the fool who believes in the very liars!

III

About
Pizarro flag is also a mistake that I intend to disappear.

Sworn
in 1821 the independence of Peru, the Cabildo de Lima became Generalissimo
Jose San Martín a trade, by which the city made him the gift of the
standard of Pizarro. Shortly before his death in Boulogne, this great
man of the American Revolution made a will, returning to Lima flattered
flag. Indeed, the trustees made formal delivery the precious relic
to our representative in Paris, and he took care to refer to government
Peru in a box very well equipped. Was this in the days of the administration
fleeting General Pezet, and we had a chance to see the classic banner
placed in a rooms at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the fall
of this government, 6 November 1865, the mob ransacked several offices
of the palace, and disappeared flag, which perhaps was shattered by
a rabid would imagine seeing in it proof of the slanders, then invented
the party spirit to overthrow President Pezet, winner in the fields
of Junín and Ayacucho, and he accused his political enemies of criminal
collusion with Spain to bring back the country from the yoke of old
metropolis.

Mobs do not respond or argue, and the more absurd is
the species most readily accepted found.

The flag that we saw had
no weapons of Spain, but which Charles V agreed to the city by royal
decree of December 7, 1537.

Rufus Dawes, gazing from his window upon the schooner that lay outside the reef, thought nothing
of the fact that, after the Commandant's boat had taken away the Commandant's wife another
boat should put off with the chaplain. It was quite natural that Mr. North should desire to
bid his friends farewell, and through the hot, still afternoon he watched for the returning
boat, hoping that the chaplain would bring him some message from the woman whom he was never
to see more on earth. The hours wore on, however, and no breath of wind ruffled the surface
of the sea. The day was exceedingly close and sultry, heavy dun clouds hung on the horizon,
and it seemed probable that unless a thunder-storm should clear the air before night, the calm
would continue. Blunt, however, with a true sailor's obstinacy in regard to weather, swore
there would be a breeze, and held to his purpose of sailing. The hot afternoon passed away
in a sultry sunset, and it was not until the shades of evening had begun to fall that Rufus
Dawes distinguished a boat detach itself from the sides of the schooner, and glide through
the oily water to the jetty. The chaplain was returning, and in a few hours perhaps would be
with him, to bring him the message of comfort for which his soul thirsted. He stretched out
his unshackled limbs, and throwing himself upon his stretcher, fell to recalling the past--his
boat-building, the news of his fortune, his love, and his self-sacrifice.

North, however, was not returning to bring to the prisoner a message of comfort, but he was
returning on purpose to see him, nevertheless. The unhappy man, torn by remorse and passion,
had resolved upon a course of action which seemed to him a penance for his crime of deceit.
He determined to confess to Dawes that the message he had brought was wholly fictitious, that
he himself loved the wife of the Commandant, and that with her he was about to leave the island
for ever. "I am no hypocrite," he thought, in his exaltation. "If I choose to sin, I will sin
boldly; and this poor wretch, who looks up to me as an angel, shall know me for my true self."

The notion of thus destroying his own fame in the eyes of the man whom he had taught to love
him, was pleasant to his diseased imagination. It was the natural outcome of the morbid condition
of mind into which he had drifted, and he provided for the complete execution of his scheme
with cunning born of the mischief working in his brain. It was desirable that the fatal stroke
should be dealt at the last possible instant; that he should suddenly unveil his own infamy,
and then depart, never to be seen again. To this end he had invented an excuse for returning
to the shore at the latest possible moment. He had purposely left in his room a dressing-bag--the
sort of article one is likely to forget in the hurry of departure from one's house, and so
certain to remember when the time comes to finally prepare for settling in another. He had
ingeniously extracted from Blunt the fact that "he didn't expect a wind before dark, but wanted
all ship-shape and aboard", and then, just as darkness fell, discovered that it was imperative
for him to go ashore. Blunt cursed, but, if the chaplain insisted upon going, there was no
help for it.

"There'll be a breeze in less than two hours," said he. "You've plenty of time, but if you're
not back before the first puff, I'll sail without you, as sure as you're born." North assured
him of his punctuality. "Don't wait for me, Captain, if I'm not here," said he with the lightness
of tone which men use to mask anxiety. "I'd take him at his word, Blunt," said the Commandant,
who was affably waiting to take final farewell of his wife. "Give way there, men," he shouted
to the crew, "and wait at the jetty. If Mr. North misses his ship through your laziness, you'll
pay for it." So the boat set off, North laughing uproariously at the thought of being late.
Frere observed with some astonishment that the chaplain wrapped himself in a boat cloak that
lay in the stern sheets. "Does the fellow want to smother himself in a night like this!" was
his remark. The truth was that, though his hands and head were burning, North's teeth chattered
with cold. Perhaps this was the reason why, when landed and out of eyeshot of the crew, he
produced a pocket-flask of rum and eagerly drank. The spirit gave him courage for the ordeal
to which he had condemned himself; and with steadied step, he reached the door of the old prison.
To his surprise, Gimblett refused him admission!

"But I have come direct from the Commandant," said North.

"Got any order, sir?"

"Order! No."

"I can't let you in, your reverence," said Gimblett.

"I want to see the prisoner Dawes. I have a special message for him. I have come ashore on
purpose."

"I am very sorry, sir--"

"The ship will sail in two hours, man, and I shall miss her," said North, indignant at being
frustrated in his design. "Let me pass."

"Upon my honour, sir, I daren't," said Gimblett, who was not without his good points. "You
know what authority is, sir."

North was in despair, but a bright thought struck him--a thought that, in his soberer moments,
would never have entered his head--he would buy admission. He produced the rum flask from beneath
the sheltering cloak. "Come, don't talk nonsense to me, Gimblett. You don't suppose I would
come here without authority. Here, take a pull at this, and let me through." Gimblett's features
relaxed into a smile. "Well, sir, I suppose it's all right, if you say so," said he. And clutching
the rum bottle with one hand, he opened the door of Dawes's cell with the other.

North entered, and as the door closed behind him, the prisoner, who had been lying apparently
asleep upon his bed, leapt up, and made as though to catch him by the throat.

Rufus Dawes had dreamt a dream. Alone, amid the gathering glooms, his fancy had recalled the
past, and had peopled it with memories. He thought that he was once more upon the barren strand
where he had first met with the sweet child he loved. He lived again his life of usefulness
and honour. He saw himself working at the boat, embarking, and putting out to sea. The fair
head of the innocent girl was again pillowed on his breast; her young lips again murmured words
of affection in his greedy ear. Frere was beside him, watching him, as he had watched before.
Once again the grey sea spread around him, barren of succour. Once again, in the wild, wet
morning, he beheld the American brig bearing down upon them, and saw the bearded faces of the
astonished crew. He saw Frere take the child in his arms and mount upon the deck; he heard
the shout of delight that went up, and pressed again the welcoming hands which greeted the
rescued castaways. The deck was crowded. All the folk he had ever known were there. He saw
the white hair and stern features of Sir Richard Devine, and beside him stood, wringing her
thin hands, his weeping mother. Then Frere strode forward, and after him John Rex, the convict,
who, roughly elbowing through the crowd of prisoners and gaolers, would have reached the spot
where stood Sir Richard Devine, but that the corpse of the murdered Lord Bellasis arose and
thrust him back. How the hammers clattered in the shipbuilder's yard! Was it a coffin they
were making? Not for Sylvia--surely not for her! The air grows heavy, lurid with flame, and
black with smoke. The Hydaspes is on fire! Sylvia clings to her husband. Base wretch, would
you shake her off! Look up; the midnight heaven is glittering with stars; above the smoke the
air breathes delicately! One step--another! Fix your eyes on mine--so--to my heart! Alas! she
turns; he catches at her dress. What! It is a priest--a priest--who, smiling with infernal
joy, would drag her to the flaming gulf that yawns for him. The dreamer leaps at the wretch's
throat, and crying, "Villain, was it for this fate I saved her?"--and awakes to find himself
struggling with the monster of his dream, the idol of his waking senses--"Mr. North."

North, paralysed no less by the suddenness of the attack than by the words with which it was
accompanied, let fall his cloak, and stood trembling before the prophetic accusation of the
man whose curses he had come to earn.

"I was dreaming," said Rufus Dawes. "A terrible dream! But it has passed now. The message--you
have brought me a message, have you not? Why--what ails you? You are pale--your knees tremble.
Did my violence----?"

North recovered himself with a great effort. "It is nothing. Let us talk, for my time is short.
You have thought me a good man--one blessed of God, one consecrated to a holy service; a man
honest, pure, and truthful. I have returned to tell you the truth. I am none of these things."
Rufus Dawes sat staring, unable to comprehend this madness. "I told you that the woman you
loved--for you do love her--sent you a message of forgiveness. I lied."

"What!"

"I never told her of your confession.  I never mentioned your name to her."

"And she will go without knowing--Oh, Mr. North, what have you done?"

"Wrecked my own soul!" cried North, wildly, stung by the reproachful agony of the tone. "Do
not cling to me. My task is done. You will hate me now. That is my wish--I merit it. Let me
go, I say. I shall be too late."

"Too late! For what?" He looked at the cloak--through the open window came the voices of the
men in the boat--the memory of the rose, of the scene in the prison, flashed across him, and
he understood it all.

"Great Heaven, you go together!"

"Let me go," repeated North, in a hoarse voice.

Rufus Dawes stepped between him and the door. "No, madman, I will not let you go, to do this
great wrong, to kill this innocent young soul, who--God help her--loves you!" North, confounded
at this sudden reversal of their position towards each other, crouched bewildered against the
wall. "I say you shall not go! You shall not destroy your own soul and hers! You love her!
So do I! and my love is mightier than yours, for it shall save her!"

"In God's name--" cried the unhappy priest, striving to stop his ears.

"Ay, in God's name! In the name of that God whom in my torments I had forgotten! In the name
of that God whom you taught me to remember! That God who sent you to save me from despair,
gives me strength to save you in my turn! Oh, Mr. North--my teacher--my friend--my brother--by
the sweet hope of mercy which you preached to me, be merciful to this erring woman!"

North lifted agonized eyes. "But I love her! Love her, do you hear? What do you know of love?"

"Love!" cried Rufus Dawes, his pale face radiant. "Love! Oh, it is you who do not know it.
Love is the sacrifice of self, the death of all desire that is not for another's good. Love
is Godlike! You love?--no, no, your love is selfishness, and will end in shame! Listen, I will
tell you the history of such a love as yours."

North, enthralled by the other's overmastering will, fell back trembling.

"I will tell you the secret of my life, the reason why I am here. Come closer."

          *          *          *          *          *

CHAPTER XV. THE DISCOVERY.

The house in Clarges Street was duly placed at the disposal of Mrs. Richard Devine, who was
installed in it, to the profound astonishment and disgust of Mr. Smithers and his fellow-servants.
It now only remained that the lady should be formally recognized by Lady Devine. The rest of
the ingenious programme would follow as a matter of course. John Rex was well aware of the
position which, in his assumed personality, he occupied in society. He knew that by the world
of servants, of waiters, of those to whom servants and waiters could babble; of such turfites
and men-about-town as had reason to inquire concerning Mr. Richard's domestic affairs--no opinion
could be expressed, save that "Devine's married somebody, I hear," with variations to the same
effect. He knew well that the really great world, the Society, whose scandal would have been
socially injurious, had long ceased to trouble itself with Mr. Richard Devine's doings in any
particular. If it had been reported that the Leviathan of the Turf had married his washerwoman,
Society would only have intimated that "it was just what might have been expected of him".
To say the truth, however, Mr. Richard had rather hoped that--disgusted at his brutality--Lady
Devine would have nothing more to do with him, and that the ordeal of presenting his wife would
not be necessary. Lady Devine, however, had resolved on a different line of conduct. The intelligence
concerning Mr. Richard Devine's threatened proceedings seemed to nerve her to the confession
of the dislike which had been long growing in her mind; seemed even to aid the formation of
those doubts, the shadows of which had now and then cast themselves upon her belief in the
identity of the man who called himself her son. "His conduct is brutal," said she to her brother.
"I cannot understand it."

"It is more than brutal; it is unnatural," returned Francis Wade, and stole a look at her.
"Moreover, he is married."

"Married!" cried Lady Devine.

"So he says," continued the other, producing the letter sent to him by Rex at Sarah's dictation.
"He writes to me stating that his wife, whom he married last year abroad, has come to England,
and wishes us to receive her."

"I will not receive her!" cried Lady Devine, rising and pacing down the path.

"But that would be a declaration of war," said poor Francis, twisting an Italian onyx which
adorned his irresolute hand. "I would not advise that."

Lady Devine stopped suddenly, with the gesture of one who has finally made a difficult and
long-considered resolution. "Richard shall not sell this house," she said.

"But, my dear Ellinor," cried her brother, in some alarm at this unwonted decision, "I am afraid
that you can't prevent him."

"If he is the man he says he is, I can," returned she, with effort.

Francis Wade gasped. "If he is the man! It is true--I have sometimes thought--Oh, Ellinor,
can it be that we have been deceived?"

She came to him and leant upon him for support, as she had leant upon her son in the garden
where they now stood, nineteen years ago. "I do not know, I am afraid to think. But between
Richard and myself is a secret--a shameful secret, Frank, known to no other living person.
If the man who threatens me does not know that secret, he is not my son. If he does know it----"

"Well, in Heaven's name, what then?"

"He knows that he has neither part nor lot in the fortune of the man who was my husband."

"Ellinor, you terrify me. What does this mean?"

"I will tell you if there be need to do so," said the unhappy lady. "But I cannot now. I never
meant to speak of it again, even to him. Consider that it is hard to break a silence of nearly
twenty years. Write to this man, and tell him that before I receive his wife, I wish to see
him alone. No--do not let him come here until the truth be known. I will go to him."

It was with some trepidation that Mr. Richard, sitting with his wife on the afternoon of the
3rd May, 1846, awaited the arrival of his mother. He had been very nervous and unstrung for
some days past, and the prospect of the coming interview was, for some reason he could not
explain to himself, weighty with fears. "What does she want to come alone for? And what can
she have to say?" he asked himself. "She cannot suspect anything after all these years, surely?"
He endeavoured to reason with himself, but in vain; the knock at the door which announced the
arrival of his pretended mother made his heart jump.

"I feel deuced shaky, Sarah," he said. "Let's have a nip of something."

"You've been nipping too much for the last five years, Dick." (She had quite schooled her tongue
to the new name.) "Your 'shakiness' is the result of 'nipping', I'm afraid."

"Oh, don't preach; I am not in the humour for it."

"Help yourself, then. You are quite sure that you are ready with your story?"

The brandy revived him, and he rose with affected heartiness. "My dear mother, allow me to
present to you--" He paused, for there was that in Lady Devine's face which confirmed his worst
fears.

"I wish to speak to you alone," she said, ignoring with steady eyes the woman whom she had
ostensibly come to see.

John Rex hesitated, but Sarah saw the danger, and hastened to confront it. "A wife should be
a husband's best friend, madam. Your son married me of his own free will, and even his mother
can have nothing to say to him which it is not my duty and privilege to hear. I am not a girl
as you can see, and I can bear whatever news you bring."

Lady Devine bit her pale lips. She saw at once that the woman before her was not gently-born,
but she felt also that she was a woman of higher mental calibre than herself. Prepared as she
was for the worst, this sudden and open declaration of hostilities frightened her, as Sarah
had calculated. She began to realize that if she was to prove equal to the task she had set
herself, she must not waste her strength in skirmishing. Steadily refusing to look at Richard's
wife, she addressed herself to Richard. "My brother will be here in half an hour," she said,
as though the mention of his name would better her position in some way. "But I begged him
to allow me to come first in order that I might speak to you privately."

"Well," said John Rex, "we are in private. What have you to say?"

"I want to tell you that I forbid you to carry out the plan you have for breaking up Sir Richard's
property."

"Forbid me!" cried Rex, much relieved. "Why, I only want to do what my father's will enables
me to do."

"Your father's will enables you to do nothing of the sort, and you know it." She spoke as though
rehearsing a series of set-speeches, and Sarah watched her with growing alarm.

"Oh, nonsense!" cries John Rex, in sheer amazement. "I have a lawyer's opinion on it."

"Do you remember what took place at Hampstead this day nineteen years ago?"

"At Hampstead!" said Rex, grown suddenly pale. "This day nineteen years ago. No! What do you mean?"

"Do you not remember?" she continued, leaning forward eagerly, and speaking almost fiercely.
"Do you not remember the reason why you left the house where you were born, and which you now
wish to sell to strangers?"

John Rex stood dumbfounded, the blood suffusing his temples. He knew that among the secrets
of the man whose inheritance he had stolen was one which he had never gained--the secret of
that sacrifice to which Lady Devine had once referred--and he felt that this secret was to
be revealed to crush him now.

Sarah, trembling also, but more with rage than terror, swept towards Lady Devine. "Speak out!"
she said, "if you have anything to say! Of what do you accuse my husband?"

"Of imposture!" cried Lady Devine, all her outraged maternity nerving her to abash her enemy.
"This man may be your husband, but he is not my son!"

Now that the worst was out, John Rex, choking with passion, felt all the devil within him rebelling
against defeat. "You are mad," he said. "You have recognized me for three years, and now, because
I want to claim that which is my own, you invent this lie. Take care how you provoke me. If
I am not your son--you have recognized me as such. I stand upon the law and upon my rights."

Lady Devine turned swiftly, and with both hands to her bosom, confronted him.

"You shall have your rights! You shall have what the law allows you! Oh, how blind I have been
all these years. Persist in your infamous imposture. Call yourself Richard Devine still, and
I will tell the world the shameful secret which my son died to hide. Be Richard Devine! Richard
Devine was a bastard, and the law allows him--nothing!"

There was no doubting the truth of her words. It was impossible that even a woman whose home
had been desecrated, as hers had been, would invent a lie so self-condemning. Yet John Rex
forced himself to appear to doubt, and his dry lips asked, "If then your husband was not the
father of your son, who was?"

"My cousin, Armigell Esmè Wade, Lord Bellasis," answered Lady Devine.

John Rex gasped for breath. His hand, tugging at his neck-cloth, rent away the linen that covered
his choking throat. The whole horizon of his past was lit up by a lightning flash which stunned
him. His brain, already enfeebled by excess, was unable to withstand this last shock. He staggered,
and but for the cabinet against which he leant, would have fallen. The secret thoughts of his
heart rose to his lips, and were uttered unconsciously. "Lord Bellasis! He was my father also,
and--I killed him!"

A dreadful silence fell, and then Lady Devine, stretching out her hands towards the self-confessed
murderer, with a sort of frightful respect, said in a whisper, in which horror and supplication
were strangely mingled, "What did you do with my son? Did you kill him also?"

But John Rex, wagging his head from side to side, like a beast in the shambles that has received
a mortal stroke, made no reply. Sarah Purfoy, awed as she was by the dramatic force of the
situation, nevertheless remembered that Francis Wade might arrive at any moment, and saw her
last opportunity for safety. She advanced and touched the mother on the shoulder.

"Your son is alive!"

"Where?"

"Will you promise not to hinder us leaving this house if I tell you?"

"Yes, yes."

"Will you promise to keep the confession which you have heard secret, until we have left England?"

"I promise anything. In God's name, woman, if you have a woman's heart, speak! Where is my son?"

Sarah Purfoy rose over the enemy who had defeated her, and said in level, deliberate accents,
"They call him Rufus Dawes. He is a convict at Norfolk Island, transported for life for the
murder which you have heard my husband confess to having committed--Ah!----"

Lady Devine had fainted.

CHAPTER XVI. FIFTEEN HOURS.

Sarah flew to Rex. "Rouse yourself, John, for Heaven's sake. We have not a moment." John Rex
passed his hand over his forehead wearily.

"I cannot think. I am broken down. I am ill. My brain seems dead."

Nervously watching the prostrate figure on the floor, she hurried on bonnet, cloak, and veil,
and in a twinkling had him outside the house and into a cab.

"Thirty-nine, Lombard Street. Quick!"

"You won't give me up?" said Rex, turning dull eyes upon her.

"Give you up? No. But the police will be after us as soon as that woman can speak, and her
brother summon his lawyer. I know what her promise is worth. We have only got about fifteen
hours start."

"I can't go far, Sarah," said he; "I am sleepy and stupid."

She repressed the terrible fear that tugged at her heart, and strove to rally him.

"You've been drinking too much, John. Now sit still and be good, while I go and get some money
for you."

She hurried into the bank, and her name secured her an interview with the manager at once.

"That's a rich woman," said one of the clerks to his friend. "A widow, too! Chance for you,
Tom," returned the other; and, presently, from out the sacred presence came another clerk with
a request for "a draft on Sydney for three thousand, less premium", and bearing a cheque signed
"Sarah Carr" for £200, which he "took" in notes, and so returned again.

From the bank she was taken to Green's Shipping Office. "I want a cabin in the first ship for
Sydney, please."

The shipping-clerk looked at a board. "The Highflyer goes in twelve days, madam, and there
is one cabin vacant."

"I want to go at once--to-morrow or next day."

He smiled. "I am afraid that is impossible," said he. Just then one of the partners came out
of his private room with a telegram in his hand, and beckoned the shipping-clerk. Sarah was
about to depart for another office, when the clerk came hastily back.

"Just the thing for you, ma'am," said he. "We have got a telegram from a gentleman who has
a first cabin in the Dido, to say that his wife has been taken ill, and he must give up his berth."

"When does the Dido sail?"

"To-morrow morning. She is at Plymouth, waiting for the mails. If you go down to-night by the
mail-train which leaves at 9.30, you will be in plenty of time, and we will telegraph." That today! ... Tomorrow! ... Ever, it seems! Instead of
the federal sighed, a king, a tyrant of fixed and maybe a stranger! For these Factory reasons
became pessimistic and announced policy and hoped that the Government "Judas takes him." Two
things especially altered the bile of the cigarette, the increase Carlist party and attacks on
the Virgin and the Saints. In spite of the charge "Throw against God" launched by the peasant
to the citizens, the truth is that, with very few exceptions, all cigarette demonstrating consistent
and unanimous in ailments of devotion. She would be more or less enlightened, but there were
many and fervent piety. It is true that on the altar of bad taste, existing in each workshop Doric
deposit the operatives their shawls, their umbrellas, the mezzanine of the food, but this kind of
lack of familiarity did not reveal respect, but the same habit of seeing there the holy altar,
to which no one went without crossing himself and genuflect. And is it curious that as the revolution
unfolded and Factory republicanism grew, aumentáronse also religious practices. The brush
placed beside the altar, where the days of collecting alms each casting machine operator, never looked
so full of copper coins, the box containing the light wax was packed with torches and candles
lit candles over sixty ninth day of the altarpiece; first cigarette they would not have to drink
water, oil lamp that lit daily to their favorite images, an Our Lady of Mercy twice the size of
the captives kneeling at his feet, a San Antón with sackcloth very ornate gold mat, a Child-God skirts
blue holes and a little world in his hands. Never was more brilliance the ninth of San José, all
while working prayed, turning towards the altar to say the acts of faith and the litany, and
bawling on the last day the joys with much unction, tuning but not enough. Never place both the collection
for the Holy Burial Procession and ninth of Sorrows, and finally, on any occasion was the
god protector of the factory Virgen del Amparo, many offers, worship and charity, but its been
forgotten why rival Our Lady of the Guard, star of the seas, the patron saint of sailors by untamed
coast.

Granera well have in half a dozen strong spirits, capable of swearing and talking unabashedly
religious things, but dominated by the majority, did not dare loosen
the tongue.

At most were allowed to curse of the priests, accusing them of immoral and greedy, or deny that
"metiesen in politics" and take up arms to bring the "escurantismo and the Inquisition ' most
momentous and profound questions not stirred, and if anyone dared so much, is sure to fall over
a flood of jokes and insults.

- Is the world lost! - The teacher said Amparo party, middle-aged
woman of sad eyes, dressed in mourning ever since I had seen die of
smallpox two gallant children who were his pride -.

This world is rough, girls!


It had grown dark in the prison, and as he ceased speaking, Rufus Dawes felt a trembling hand
seize his own. It was that of the chaplain.

"Let me hold your hand!--Sir Richard Devine did not murder your father. He was murdered by
a horseman who, riding with him, struck him and fled."

"Merciful God! How do you know this?"

"Because I saw the murder committed, because--don't let go my hand--I robbed the body."

"You!--"

"In my youth I was a gambler. Lord Bellasis won money from me, and to pay him I forged two
bills of exchange. Unscrupulous and cruel, he threatened to expose me if I did not give him
double the sum. Forgery was death in those days, and I strained every nerve to buy back the
proofs of my folly. I succeeded. I was to meet Lord Bellasis near his own house at Hampstead
on the night of which you speak, to pay the money and receive the bills. When I saw him fall
I galloped up, but instead of pursuing his murderer I rifled his pocket-book of my forgeries.
I was afraid to give evidence at the trial, or I might have saved you.--Ah! you have let go
my hand!"

"God forgive you!" said Rufus Dawes, and then was silent.

"Speak!" cried North. "Speak, or you will make me mad. Reproach me! Spurn me! Spit upon me!
You cannot think worse of me than I do myself." But the other, his head buried in his hands,
did not answer, and with a wild gesture North staggered out of the cell.

Nearly an hour had passed since the chaplain had placed the rum flask in his hand, and Gimblett
observed, with semi-drunken astonishment, that it was not yet empty. He had intended, in the
first instance, to have taken but one sup in payment of his courtesy--for Gimblett was conscious
of his own weakness in the matter of strong waters--but as he waited and waited, the one sup
became two, and two three, and at length more than half the contents of the bottle had moistened
his gullet, and maddened him for more. Gimblett was in a quandary. If he didn't finish the
flask, he would be oppressed with an everlasting regret. If he did finish it he would be drunk;
and to be drunk on duty was the one unpardonable sin. He looked across the darkness of the
sea, to where the rising and falling light marked the schooner. The Commandant was a long way
off! A faint breeze, which had--according to Blunt's prophecy--arisen with the night, brought
up to him the voices of the boat's crew from the jetty below him. His friend Jack Mannix was
coxswain of her. He would give Jack a drink. Leaving the gate, he advanced unsteadily to the
edge of the embankment, and, putting his head over, called out to his friend. The breeze, however,
which was momentarily freshening, carried his voice away; and Jack Mannix, hearing nothing,
continued his conversation. Gimblett was just drunk enough to be virtuously indignant at this
incivility, and seating himself on the edge of the bank, swallowed the remainder of the rum
at a draught. The effect upon his enforcedly temperate stomach was very touching. He made one
feeble attempt to get upon his legs, cast a reproachful glance at the rum bottle, essayed to
drink out of its spirituous emptiness, and then, with a smile of reckless contentment, cursed
the island and all its contents, and fell asleep.

North, coming out of the prison, did not notice the absence of the gaoler; indeed, he was not
in a condition to notice anything. Bare-headed, without his cloak, with staring eyes and clenched
hands, he rushed through the gates into the night as one who flies headlong from some fearful
vision. It seemed that, absorbed in his own thoughts, he took no heed of his steps, for instead
of taking the path which led to the sea, he kept along the more familiar one that led to his
own cottage on the hill. "This man a convict!" he cried. "He is a hero--a martyr! What a life!
Love! Yes, that is love indeed! Oh, James North, how base art thou in the eyes of God beside
this despised outcast!" And so muttering, tearing his grey hair, and beating his throbbing
temples with clenched hands, he reached his own room, and saw, by the light of the new-born
moon, the dressing-bag and candle standing on the table as he had left them. They brought again
to his mind the recollection of the task that was before him. He lighted the candle, and, taking
the bag in his hand, cast one last look round the chamber which had witnessed his futile struggles
against that baser part of himself which had at last triumphed. Then lifted a beautiful
statue of the time with this label:

THE COMFORTER.

        

End of the two consoles.

* * * * *

HISTORY

OF VIAG

Of castigating,

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

In the city of Candia I came to the world the year 1600. My father was the governor, and I remember
a poet less than average, if only mildly unkempt style, called Azarria, made some bad verses in praise
of mine, where I described as a descendant quale Minos in a straight line, but then removed
the government having my father wrote further in I was the grandson of Pasiphae and her lover.
Mal sugeto this was indeed the Azarria, and most annoying villain in the entire island had.

Fifteen years had Quando my father sent me to study in Rome, and hoping I get to learn all the
truths, because until then I had been taught the opposite of truth, as is use in this world, from
China to the Alps.

Profondo Monsinor, who was recommended sugeto was rare, and one of the most terrible wise
in the world had. Quisome training in the categories of Aristotle, and almost puts me in their
Gitonas: good me free. Vi processions, exorcisms, and quite a few
robberies. They said, though against all indeed, that the Siniora
Olympia, very prudent lady, was selling some things that are not usually
sold. My age it all seemed very funny. It occurred to a maiden lady,
and very mild condition, Siniora called Fatel, fall in love with me:
the reverend father obsequiabanla Punalini and Aconiti the reverend
father, a religious congregation no longer exists, and put according
to both of giving me her favors, but I was in danger of being poisoned
and excommunicated. Rome Dexe very pleased with the architecture of
San Pedro.

Trip to France, where the seasoning Luis Reyna to the
right, and the first thing I asked was for my lunch if I wanted a
piece of Marshal d'Ancre, who had roast people, and they sold it very
cheap to those who wanted to buy their meat to give away.

Rufus Dawes, overpowered by the revelation so suddenly made to him, had remained for a few
moments motionless in his cell, expecting to hear the heavy clang of the outer door, which
should announce to him the departure of the chaplain. But he did not hear it, and it seemed
to him that the air in the cell had grown suddenly cooler. He went to the door, and looked
into the narrow corridor, expecting to see the scowling countenance of Gimblett. To his astonishment
the door of the prison was wide open, and not a soul in sight. His first thought was of North.
Had the story he had told, coupled with the entreaties he had lavished, sufficed to turn him
from his purpose?

He looked around. The night was falling suddenly; the wind was mounting; from beyond the bar
came the hoarse murmur of an angry sea. If the schooner was to sail that night, she had best
get out into deep waters. Where was the chaplain? Pray Heaven the delay had been sufficient,
and they had sailed without him. Yet they would be sure to meet. He advanced a few steps nearer,
and looked about him. Was it possible that, in his madness, the chaplain had been about to
commit some violence which had drawn the trusty Gimblett from his post? "Gr-r-r-r! Ouph!" The
trusty Gimblett was lying at his feet--dead drunk!

"Hi! Hiho! Hillo there!" roared somebody from the jetty below. "Be that you, Muster Noarth?
We ain't too much tiam, sur!"

From the uncurtained windows of the chaplain's house on the hill beamed the newly-lighted candle.
They in the boat did not see it, but it brought to the prisoner a wild hope that made his heart
bound. He ran back to the cell, clapped on North's wide-awake, and flinging the cloak hastily
about him, came quickly down the steps. If the moon should shine out now!

"Jump in, sir," said unsuspecting Mannix, thinking only of the flogging he had been threatened
with. "It'll be a dirty night, this night! Put this over your knees, sir. Shove her off! Give
way!" And they were afloat. But one glimpse of moonlight fell upon the slouched hat and cloaked
figure, and the boat's crew, engaged in the dangerous task of navigating the reef in the teeth
of the rising gale, paid no attention to the chaplain.

"By George, lads, we're but just in time!" cried Mannix; and they laid alongside the schooner,
black in blackness. "Up ye go, yer honour, quick!" The wind had shifted, and was now off the
shore. Blunt, who had begun to repent of his obstinacy, but would not confess it, thought the
next best thing to riding out the gale was to get out to open sea. "Damn the parson," he had
said, in all heartiness; "we can't wait all night for him. Heave ahead, Mr. Johnson!" And so
the anchor was atrip as Rufus Dawes ran up the side.

The Commandant, already pulling off in his own boat, roared a coarse farewell. "Good-bye, North!
It was touch and go with ye!" adding, "Curse the fellow, he's too proud to answer!"

The chaplain indeed spoke to no one, and plunging down the hatchway, made for the stern cabins.
"Close shave, your reverence!" said a respectful somebody, opening a door. It was; but the
clergyman did not say so. He double-locked the door, and hardly realizing the danger he had
escaped, flung himself on the bunk, panting. Over his head he heard the rapid tramp of feet
and the cheery,

Yo hi-oh! and a rumbelow!

of the men at the capstan. He could smell the sea, and through the open window of the cabin
could distinguish the light in the chaplain's house on the hill. The trampling ceased, the
vessel began to move slowly--the Commandant's boat appeared below him for an instant, making
her way back--the Lady Franklin had set sail. With his eyes fixed on the tiny light, he strove
to think what was best to be done. It was hopeless to think that he could maintain the imposture
which, favoured by the darkness and confusion, he had hitherto successfully attempted. He was
certain to be detected at Hobart Town, even if he could lie concealed during his long and tedious
voyage. That mattered little, however. He had saved Sylvia, for North had been left behind.
Poor North! As the thought of pity came to him, the light he looked at was suddenly extinguished,
and Rufus Dawes, compelled thereto as by an irresistible power, fell upon his knees and prayed
for the pardon and happiness of the man who had redeemed him.

          *          *          *          *          *

"That's a gun from the shore," said Partridge the mate, "and they're burning a red light. There's
a prisoner escaped. Shall we lie-to?" Also the work is more delicate and clean more
pleasing colors, and looks up the sunshine comes to bathe more cheerful walls. The clean whiteness
of the booklet, yellow bass strips, gray brown of the packs, made up a nice tone scale to the
pupil. And the characters harmonized décor.

Preponderance in the workshop of skinny girls Marineda: villagers were barely visible; so cute
palms were abundant, youthful faces. Below, the most operatives were mothers, who go to earn
bread for their children, overwhelmed working rebujos in a shawl, indifferent to his composure,
thinking about the creatures, which were entrusted to the care of a neighbor, in the new, that
will cry to nurse while the mother the breast milk burst .... Top bloom even the illusions of
the first years and the innocent flirtation that cost little money and show the blood and
natural girl claim beautiful. The one with good hair combs it with care and grace, that's why
God gave it, the size that boasts fitted jacket gets windy, you know it white decorated with
a blue scarf.

Own right, Amparo belonged to that privileged workshop.

He found it very good reception and two friends: the one is fond of him, moved by an instinct protector;
Guardian called him, was born at the foot of the shrine of Our Lady of Guardia Marineda so expensive,
and as she herself said, the Virgin would give him glory in the other
world, because this not only sent him Penitas and jobs.

Rufus Dawes, exhausted with the excitement through which he had passed, had slept for two or
three hours, when he was awakened by the motion of the vessel going on the other tack. He rose
to his feet, and found himself in complete darkness. Overhead was the noise of trampling feet,
and he could distinguish the hoarse tones of Blunt bellowing orders. Astonished at the absence
of the moonlight which had so lately silvered the sea, he flung open the cabin window and looked
out. As we have said, the cabin allotted to North was one of the two stern cabins, and from
it the convict had a full view of the approaching storm.

The sight was one of wild grandeur. The huge, black cloud which hung in the horizon had changed
its shape. Instead of a curtain it was an arch. Beneath this vast and magnificent portal shone
a dull phosphoric light. Across this livid space pale flashes of sheet-lightning passed noiselessly.
Behind it was a dull and threatening murmur, made up of the grumbling of thunder, the falling
of rain, and the roar of contending wind and water. The lights of the prison-island had disappeared,
so rapid had been the progress of the schooner under the steady breeze, and the ocean stretched
around, black and desolate. Gazing upon this gloomy expanse, Rufus Dawes observed a strange
phenomenon--lightning appeared to burst upwards from the sullen bosom of the sea. At intervals,
the darkly-rolling waves flashed fire, and streaks of flame shot upwards. The wind increased
in violence, and the arch of light was fringed with rain. A dull, red glow hung around, like
the reflection of a conflagration. Suddenly, a tremendous peal of thunder, accompanied by a
terrific downfall of rain, rattled along the sky. The arch of light disappeared, as though
some invisible hand had shut the slide of a giant lantern. A great wall of water rushed roaring
over the level plain of the sea, and with an indescribable medley of sounds, in which tones
of horror, triumph, and torture were blended, the cyclone swooped upon them.

Rufus Dawes comprehended that the elements had come to save or destroy him. In that awful instant
the natural powers of the man rose equal to the occasion. In a few hours his fate would be
decided, and it was necessary that he should take all precaution. One of two events seemed
inevitable; he would either be drowned where he lay, or, should the vessel weather the storm,
he would be forced upon the deck, and the desperate imposture he had attempted be discovered.
For the moment despair overwhelmed him, and he contemplated the raging sea as though he would
cast himself into it, and thus end his troubles. The tones of a woman's voice recalled him
to himself. Cautiously unlocking the cabin door, he peered out. The cuddy was lighted by a
swinging lamp which revealed Sylvia questioning one of the women concerning the storm. As Rufus
Dawes looked, he saw her glance, with an air half of hope, half of fear, towards the door behind
which he lurked, and he understood that she expected to see the chaplain. Locking the door,
he proceeded hastily to dress himself in North's clothes. He would wait until his aid was absolutely
required, and then rush out. In the darkness, Sylvia would mistake him for the priest. He could
convey her to the boat--if recourse to the boats should be rendered necessary--and then take
the hazard of his fortune. While she was in danger, his place was near by.

From the deck of the vessel the scene was appalling. The clouds had closed in. The arch of
light had disappeared, and all was a dull, windy blackness. Gigantic seas seemed to mount in
the horizon and sweep towards and upon them. It was as though the ship lay in the vortex of
a whirlpool, so high on either side of her were piled the rough pyramidical masses of sea.
Mighty gusts arose--claps of wind which seemed like strokes of thunder. A sail loosened from
its tackling was torn away and blown out to sea, disappearing like a shred of white paper to
leeward. The mercury in the barometer marked 29:50. Blunt, who had been at the rum bottle,
swore great oaths that no soul on board would see another sun; and when Partridge rebuked him
for blasphemy at such a moment, wept spirituous tears.

The howling of the wind was benumbing; the very fury of sound enfeebled while it terrified.
The sailors, horror-stricken, crawled about the deck, clinging to anything they thought most
secure. It was impossible to raise the head to look to windward. The eyelids were driven together,
and the face stung by the swift and biting spray. Men breathed this atmosphere of salt and
wind, and became sickened. Partridge felt that orders were useless--the man at his elbow could
not have heard them. The vessel lay almost on her beam ends, with her helm up, stripped even
of the sails which had been furled upon the yards. Mortal hands could do nothing for her.

By five o'clock in the morning the gale had reached its height. The heavens showered out rain
and lightnings--rain which the wind blew away before it reached the ocean, lightnings which
the ravenous and mountainous waves swallowed before they could pierce the gloom. If so, at all! - Said the young man so vividly as bad temper
.-- If a girl is not into channel! The affairs of the house will have carelessly. For her, the
only important thing in the world is itself, its beauty, its costumes, her jewels ... Everything
else, parents, brothers, husband, do not mean anything ... I am sure has been more concerned
that the hat that Paris has asked that my illness ...

- Oh, do not say that, by God!

You're crazy.

- I'm not crazy. Tell the truth ...

And with a quick word, vibrant, often stumbling by irritation that was possessed, neatly explained
their grievances, pleased to make punctures bleed again that had received in their married life. Ventura
had a diametrically opposite character yours. It was not possible to be good to her over an hour.
Because if last long compromise, and no reason to quarrel appeared, she was in charge of searching,
tired, no doubt, be at peace with her husband. If one thing was a pleasure to provide any, instead
of saying thank you, usually paid him with some scorn or sarcasm. Everything seemed little.
The greatest sacrifice the was small. There was no chance of making it think that their dresses,
perfumes, in their ribbons. What a life he had lead in Madrid three months there had been!
Not out of the shops in silks, jewelry, home of dressmaker. At night, surely the theater. Although
he was tired or depart head pain, nothing, it was necessary to be displayed in a box of Royal
Prince or Zarzuela. The money had been spent there, added an impressive amount. Believed to have
led enough, and three times he had to demand more from your home. Then, realizing that given that
train their income would not have enough, especially if God gave him many children, had tried to
mount a brewery to build even the studies he had done. Ventura had strongly opposed this, saying
it wanted to be "the lady of a beer ..." He was convinced that the blood that had burned in Madrid,
and was still burning Sarrio, was what had caused this sudden attack of erysipelas. Sure! He needed
a life of activity and work, leaving much to the field, hunting, horseback riding. Nature demanded
eventful year. Sedentary life that he liked to Ventura, that eternal theater, those visits,
one stay up late without substance, you killed, blood was placed thick as oil ... But what mattered
to her all that! The main thing was to satisfy their taste in everything and everything ...
In Madrid he had learned to paint, a large lot, because he was white as milk! ... For although
he had stated repeatedly that I hated that disgusting habit, it was
not possible to take her statement.

While thus he unburdened himself in an intermittent flow of words, the face of Gonzalo went on
to express outrage, sadness, anger, contempt, all emotions that stirred his soul to the memory
of their sufferings. His great chest of athlete, moved convulsively on the bed, sitting a few times,
dropping others, while trembling hands clenched instinctively took
care to pull the clothes that impulse their sudden shock was leaving.

Cecilia, with her head bowed and hands hang down and cross, hoping that after listening to him
release the burden of his disappointment, the anger of young postponed.

And so it was. After they had no more words in the body, covering her with the sheet up eyes
let out an endless series of intermixed snorting incoherently. Cecilia began to tell with a
very soft voice:

- I do not know what to say to all this, Gonzalo. Getting into the rifts that may exist in
a marriage is very dangerous. If anyone to interfere in your affairs is not to me, but Mom
... But I've always heard that in every marriage there are fights
and disgustillos, especially in the beginning, as the characters do
not conform ... All of this happens. Are clouds summer. While not
affecting the merits, while the hearts are disengaged, Brawls minor
marriage are well ... And here there is no fear of it, fortunately
... You want to Ventura ...
The mists which shroud our self--knowledge become transparent, and we are smitten with sudden
lightning-like comprehension of our own misused power over our fate.

This much we feel and know, but who can coldly describe the hurricane which thus o'erwhelms
him? As well ask the drowned mariner to tell of the marvels of mid-sea when the great deeps
swallowed him and the darkness of death encompassed him round about. These two human beings
felt that they had done with life. Together thus, alone in the very midst and presence of death,
the distinctions of the world they were about to leave disappeared. Then vision grew clear.
They felt as beings whose bodies had already perished, and as they clasped hands their freed
souls, recognizing each the loveliness of the other, rushed tremblingly together.

Borne before the returning whirlwind, an immense wave, which glimmered in the darkness, spouted
up and towered above the wreck. The wretches who yet clung to the deck looked shuddering up
into the bellying greenness, and knew that the end was come.

END OF BOOK THE FOURTH

EPILOGUE.

     At day-dawn the morning after the storm,
     the rays of the rising sun fell upon an
     object which floated on the surface of
     the water not far from where the schooner
     had foundered.

     This object was a portion of the mainmast
     head of the Lady Franklin, and entangled
     in the rigging were two corpses--a man
     and a woman.  The arms of the man were
     clasped round the body of the woman,
     and her head lay on his breast.
     The Prison Island appeared but as a long
     low line on the distant horizon.
     The tempest was over.  As the sun rose
     higher the air grew balmy, the ocean placid;
     and, golden in the rays of the new risen
     morning, the wreck and its burden drifted
     out to sea.

APPENDIX.

 BOOK ONE:

 CHAPTERS I,IV,V,VII. Report of the Commission of Inquiry into the state of the colony
 of New South Wales.  Printed by order of the House of Commons, 1822.

 "Two Voyages to New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land", by Thomas Reid
 [Surgeon on board the Neptune and Morley transport ships],
 Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, and Surgeon
 in the Royal Navy.  London: Longman and Co., 1822.

 "Narrative of a Visit to the Australian Colonies", by James Backhouse.
 London: Hamilton, Adams and Co., 1843.

 Report of a Select Committee on Transportation.  Printed by order of the
 House of Commons, 1838.  [Evidence of Colonel Henry Breton.--Q.2,431-2,436.]

 BOOK TWO:

 CHAPTERS I,II,III. Report of a Select Committee [ut supra], 1838.  Evidence of John Barnes, Esq.,
 pp.37-49.  Also Appendix to above Report, I., No.56,B.

 "Tasmanian Journal of Natural Science", etc., vol.  ii.
 Account of Macquarie Harbour, by T. G. Lempriere, Esq., A.D.C.G.,
 pp.17, 107, 200.  Tasmania: Henry Dowling.  London: John Murray, 1846.

 "Van Diemen's Land Anniversary and Hobart Town Almanac, 1831."  Account of
 Macquarie Harbour, by James Ross, p.262.  Hobart Town: James Ross, 1832.

 "Meliora", April, 1861--"Our Convict System": case of Charles Anderson,
 chained to a rock for two years in irons.  See also "Our Convicts", p.233,
 vol.i., Mary Carpenter.  Longmans, 1864.

 "Backhouse's Narrative" [ut supra] chapters iii., iv.
 Files of Hobart Town Courier, 1827-8, more especially October 23
 and December 7, 1827, and February 2, 1828.

 CHAPTERS IV. and VIII. Report of a Select Committee [ut supra], 1838, pp.  353, 354, 355.

 CHAPTERS IX., XV., XVII. "Tasmanian Journal" [ut supra], vol.i.: Account of Macquarie Harbour,
 by T. G. Lempriere, Esq.  [ut supra].  The seizure of the Cypress (sic.),
 pp.366-7.  Escape of Morgan and Popjoy, p.369.  The seizure of the Frederick,
 pp.371-375.

 "Van Diemen's Land Annual", 1838: Narrative of the Sufferings and Adventures
 of certain of Ten Convicts, etc., pp.1-11.  Hobart Town: James Ross, 1838.

 "Old Tales of a Young Country", by Marcus Clarke:
 The Last of Macquarie Harbour, pp.  141-146.  The Seizure of the Cyprus,
 pp.133-140.  Melbourne: George Robertson, 1871.

 BOOK THREE:

 CHAPTER II. Transportation: Copy of a communication upon the subject of Transportation
 addressed to Earl Grey by the Lord Bishop of Tasmania.
 Reprinted for private distribution to the heads of families only.
 Launceston: Henry Dowling, 1848.

 Report of a Select Committee [ut supra], 1837.
 Evidence of Ernest Augustus Slade, Esq.--Q.870.  Ibidem, 1838:
 Evidence of James Mudie, Esq.--Q.804-813.

 CHAPTER IX. Backhouse's Narrative [ut supra]: Appendix, lxxvi.

 CHAPTER X. "Van Diemen 's Land Annual", 1838 [ut supra], pp.12-33.  Old Tales, etc,
 [ut supra], The Last of Macquarie Harbour, pp.147-156.

 CHAPTER XV. Report of a Select Committee [ut supra], 1838:
 Evidence of E. A. Slade, Esq.-Q.1,882-1,892.
 Ibidem: Appendix No.ii., E.

 CHAPTER XX. Report of a Select Committee [ut supra], 1837:
 Evidence of John Russell, Esq., Assist.-Surgeon 63rd Regiment.--Q.426-615.
 Ibidem: Evidence of Colonel Geo. Arthur--Q.4,510-4,548.

 CHAPTERS XXIII., XXIV., XXVI. "The Adventures of Martin Cash, the Bushranger." Hobart Town:
 J. L. Burke, 1870. pp.64-70.

 "Van Dieman's Land Annual" [ut supra], 1829: Visit to Port Arthur.
 Account of the Devil's Blow-Hole.

 CHAPTER XXVII. Report of a Select Committee [ut supra], 1832, Appendix I., No.56 C. and D.
 Deposition of Alexander Pierce and official statements of trial and execution
 of Pierce and Cox for murder and cannibalism.

 "The Bushrangers,", by James Bonwick, Esq.  Article-"Port Arthur"

 BOOK IV.
 CHAPTERS III., IV. Sessional Papers printed by order of the House of Lords, 1847.
 Enclosure to No. XI.  Extract of a paper by the Rev. T. B. Naylor.
 Enclosure 3 in No.XIV. 

As you see, very little light provided by these lines, and I say that in the Annals of Cuzco,
unpublished possessing the bishop of Ochoa, nor is further advanced, but the mysterious event
is placed in different epoch to which I assign.

 House of Lords Report of a Commission on the execution of Criminal Law, 1847,
 Evidence of the Lord Bishop of Tasmania--Q.4,795--4,904 and 5,085--5,130.

 Despatch of His Excellency Sir William Denison to Secretary of State,
 10th July, 1847.

 Report of a Select Committee [ut supra], 1838:
 Evidence of the Very Rev. Wm. Ullathorne, D.D.--Q.150-318.

 Report of House of Lords [ut supra], 1847:
 Evidence of Albert Charles Stonor, Esq., Crown Solicitor of New South Wales--
 Q.5,174-5,197. Why would not the Come
back to embark before the ships attempted to break and walk on land, and came to the Assumption
with 300 men, 400 who had embarked; [22] because the others had died of anger and disease.
 [ut supra]

 CHAPTERS VII., VIII., IX., XII. Adventures of Martin Cash [ut supra], pp.133-141;
  Cases of George Armstrong,
 "Pine Tree Jack", and Alexander Campbell.

 Punishment of the "gag" and "bridle".  Correspondence relating to
 the Rev. T. Rogers [ut supra], pp. 41-43.

 Punishment of the "gag" and "bridle".  It was the most horrible
       scene I have ever witnessed."

 Ibidem: Evidence of Colonel George Arthur.--Q.4,548.

 Ibidem: Evidence of Sir Francis Forbes.--Q.1,119. Go to this people, examine them all;
I will notice, and your report may determine whether I have to punish or destroy the city.
I Sir, Babuca humbly replied, nor have I ever been in Persia, nor do I know all that Empire
to none.

