THE MONKEY THAT WOULD NOT KILL

              THE MONKEY
         THAT WOULD NOT KILL

                  BY
            HENRY DRUMMOND

 With Sixteen Full-page Illustrations

                  BY
              LOUIS WAIN

               NEW YORK
        DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY
                 1915

 Copyright, 1897,
 By Dodd, Mead and Company.

PREFACE

A few years ago, the readers of "Wee Willie Winkie" detected a new vein running through the
Editorial Notes and announcements which prefaced the monthly collection of juvenile literary
efforts, which made up their little Magazine.

There was an originality and a humour which they had not noticed before, and Competitions were
suggested to them of a type for a repetition of which they clamoured.

And then presently a new serial story began, and the hairbreadth escapes of that immortal Monkey
which it recorded were breathlessly followed by Wee Willie Winkie's army of bairns all over
the world; and when it was concluded, so numerous were the entreaties for a sequel, that compulsion
had to be resorted to in order to secure the revelation of the later life of the hero under
a new name.

And now at last the Editors who were responsible for the periodical referred to have to make
a confession.

Once upon a time they both, mother and daughter, forsook their office and went away to Canada
for several months in 1891, and during that time their joint editorial chair was occupied by
no other than Professor Henry Drummond.

And now our readers will understand to whom they are indebted for the quaint sayings and funny
stories and Competitions betokening someone who "understood" boys--and girls too. And they
will be grateful to a certain contributor who failed to send his copy in time for the monthly
issue on one occasion, and so forced the then Editor to sit down and write "something." It
was the first time he had ever tried to write fiction, and as the story grew under his pen,
he began to realise the joy of creation. And so it was that, in spite of his playful deprecation
of "such nonsense" being printed, the adventures of "the Monkey that would not kill" came to
be told, and we know that we can do our old friends and readers no greater kindness than to
dedicate these chronicles to them in permanent form, in memory of one to whom "Wee Willie"
and his bairns were ever a subject of affectionate interest.

                       ISHBEL ABERDEEN,
                       MARJORIE A. H. GORDON,
                       Editors of "Wee Willie Winkie."

 Government House, Ottawa,
    November, 1897.

CONTENTS

                   I

                                      PAGE

THE MONKEY THAT WOULD NOT KILL           1

                  II

GUM                                     57

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

WITH THE STONE IN HIS ARMS HE WALKED CALMLY TOWARDS THE SHORE                   Frontispiece

                                                     PAGE

TRICKY UPSET EVERYTHING                                 5

NEXT MORNING TRICKY WAS STILL THERE                    13

IT WAS ONLY TRICKY SHAKING THE SALT-WATER OFF          17

HE BEGAN WITH THE PARROT                               21

THE SHEPHERD BOLTED LIKE WILDFIRE                      25

ALL WAS READY                                          33

HE TOOK MONKEY AND STONE AND HEAVED THEM OVER THE CLIFF                                   
43

TRICKY HELD BACK THE BABY                              55

THE MONKEY'S RESCUE                                    63

A MONKEY PERFORMING GYMNASTIC EXERCISES                71

BURIED HIS TEETH IN THE CONDUCTOR'S WRIST              77

THE NUGGET OF GOLD                                     85

POINTING A LOADED REVOLVER AT HIS HEAD                 89

THE CAN OF GUNPOWDER TIED TO HIS TAIL                 103

THE MOST PRECIOUS OF ALL IS GUM                       113

CHAPTER I

There is no such thing as an immortal monkey, but this monkey was as near it as possible. Talk
of a cat's nine lives--this monkey had ninety! A monkey's business in the world is usually
to make everybody merry, but the special mission of this one, I fear, was to make everybody
as angry as ever they could be. In wrath-producing power, in fact, this monkey positively shone.

How many escapes the monkey had before the run-away slave presented it to the missionary--from
whom I first heard of it--no one knows. It certainly had not much hair on when it arrived,
and there was an ominous scar on its head, and its ears were not wholly symmetrical. But the
children were vastly delighted with it, and after much kind treatment the creature was restored
to rude health, and, I must confess, to quite too rude spirits. The children wanted him baptized
by the time-honoured title of 'Jacko'; but by a series of exploits in which the monkey distinguished
himself at the expense of every member of the household in turn, it became evident that only
one name would fit a quadruped of his peculiar disposition; and that was 'Tricky.' Tricky,
therefore, he was called, and as Tricky he lived and--did not die.

There was no peace in the home after Tricky came. He ate everything, upset everything, broke
everything, stole everything, did everything that the average monkey ought not to do. If they
shut him up in a room, Tricky got out by the chimney. If they put him out of the room, Tricky
came in by the chimney. What could you do with such a creature? He could not be kept in, and
he could not be kept out; so a court-martial was held, and Tricky was sentenced to be given away.

But by this time the whole place knew Tricky, and no one would have him. Such an unusual refusal
of a present was never known before. Even the run-away slave smiled sweetly when his old friend
was offered to him, and protested that, to his deep regret, he was unable to buy nuts enough
to keep him.

The idea of 'wandering' Tricky in the woods, of course, occurred to the genius of the village,
and a detachment of boys set off one Saturday to carry it into effect. But you might as well
have tried to wander a carrier pigeon. Like Mary's little lamb, everywhere these boys went,
that monkey went. When they ran, it ran, when they doubled back, it doubled back; and when
they got home, dead tired, it was only to find Tricky laughing at them from the church roof.

That night the worst happened. When the people assembled for the weekly meeting, there was
not found in that church one whole hymn-book. Some one, apparently, had been pelting the pulpit
with them. The cushions were torn; the blinds were a wreck; two stops in the harmonium were
pulled out bodily. After the service the missionary was solemnly waited on by a deputation.
They were closeted for an hour and a half, but no one, except themselves, ever knew what was
said or done. The only circumstances that one could in any way connect with this mysterious
council was that about midnight a small boat was seen stealthily putting out to sea. It contained
two figures--one, who rowed, was the senior elder; the other, who sat in the stern, looked
like a very small boy.

CHAPTER II

The day was not yet broken when the 'watch' of the ship Vulcan, lying becalmed off the ----
coast, was roused by a peculiar noise aft. Going to the spot he was surprised to find a much-bedraggled
monkey rubbing itself on a pile of sail-cloth. The creature had evidently swum or drifted a
long distance, and was now endeavouring to restore circulation. Jerry, being a humane man,
got it some biscuit, and a saucer of grog, and waited developments. These were not slow to
show themselves; within twenty-four hours the commander of the ship Vulcan, 740 tons register,
was a monkey named Tricky.

Time would fail me to tell of the life that monkey led them all on board the Vulcan. After
the first week only two things lay between him and death at any moment. One was his inventiveness.
Tricky's wickedness was nothing, if not original. Every day he was at some new villainy; and
anything new on board ship is sacred. There is no Punch published on board ship; but Tricky
was all the comic papers rolled into one. But that was not the main reason. There is a good
deal of quiet quarrelling on board ship. The mate spared Tricky because he thought he would
some day give the Captain a 'turn'; the Captain let him live, hoping he would do something
dreadful to the mate. Everybody waited to see Tricky do something to somebody else. So he rose
to the highest rank in the merchant-marine, and was respected almost to idolatry by all on
board the Vulcan.

One day Tricky was hanged--formally, deliberately, and judicially hanged. What had he done?
He had killed the ship cat. It was a deliberate murder, with no extenuating circumstances,
and a rope, with a noose, was swung over the yard-arm, and Tricky run up in the presence of
all the crew. This happened about eight bells, and at dusk Tricky was still hanging there,
very quiet and motionless. Next morning Tricky was still there--as live as you are. Tricky
was not hanged, he was only hanging; and, as everybody knows, monkeys rather like hanging.
In fact, though Tricky was still up there, he had got his hands well round the rope, and was
on the whole fairly at home. The rope round a neck like Tricky's was a mere boa.

The executioners were rather ashamed of themselves when they saw how matters stood; but instead
of softening them, this dangling mockery of a dead monkey still further roused their wrath,
and the boatswain was told off to end the drama by tossing Tricky into the sea. The boatswain
was up the shrouds in a moment, and loosening the rope with one hand, and catching the monkey
by the tail with the other, he swung poor Tricky a good yard over the ship's side into the
Atlantic.

When the boatswain descended upon the deck he was greeted with a sudden deluge of rain. It
was only Tricky shaking the salt-water off. The monkey had climbed up the stern rope, and reached
the deck before him. What would have happened next is hard to predict, but at this point the
Captain, attracted by the scream of laughter which greeted the drenching of the boatswain,
came up and was told the sequel to the hanging. Now the Captain was a blunt, good-natured man,
and he avowed that neither man nor monkey who had ever been hanged on board his ship should
ever be put to death again. This was the law on shore, he said, and he would see fair-play.
So Tricky received another lease of life, and thus the ship Vulcan was kept in hot water for
two months more.

About the end of that period there came a crisis. The ship was nearing port, and a heavy cleaning
was in progress. Among other things the ship's boats had to be painted. In an evil hour one
of the men went below to dinner, and left his paint-pot standing on the deck. If Tricky had
lost such a chance he would not have been a monkey at all. Needless to say he rose to the occasion.
That his supreme hour was come was quite evident from the way he set to work at once. He began
with the parrot, which he painted vermilion; then he passed the brush gaily along the newly
varnished wood-work--daubed the masts and shrouds all over, obliterated the name on the life-buoys,
and wound up a somewhat successful performance by emptying the pot over the Captain's best
coat, which was laid in the sun to get the creases out.

I draw a veil over what happened on the Vulcan during the next quarter of an hour. There was
never such a muster of the crew since they left port: Everybody seemed to have business on
deck. When the Captain came up you could have heard a pin drop. I shall not repeat his language,
nor try to compare with anything earthly the voice with which he ordered every man below. All
I will record is--and it is to his everlasting honour--that in that awful hour the Captain
was true to his vow. 'Do you see land?' he roared to the steersman. 'Aye, aye, sir,' said the
man, 'land on the larboard bow.' 'Then,' said the Captain, 'put her head to it.'

That night, late, the ship stood close in to a small island on the north coast of Scotland,
and a boat was solemnly sent ashore, and after that Tricky was no more seen by any of the crew
of the Vulcan.

CHAPTER III

The island on which the Captain of the Vulcan exiled Tricky was marked on the chart 'uninhabited.'
But the chart was wrong. Ten years before, a shepherd had come there, and now lived with his
wife and family near the top of the great sea-cliff. You may judge of the sensation when a
real live monkey appeared in the early morning in this remote and lonely spot. The shepherd
was watching his sheep when the apparition rose, as it were, from the ground. He had never
seen a monkey before, any more than the sheep; and sheep and shepherd bolted like wildfire.
Tricky, of course, followed the biped, for he had always been accustomed to human society;
and, as the shepherd fled towards the hut, he saw the monkey close at his heels. So he made
a rush at the open door, and pulled it after him with a bang which almost brought down the house.

The fugitive had just got inside when, in a moment, he felt himself seized from behind. It
seemed as if a powerful hand was dragging him backward, and he threw himself down on the ground,
and roared with fear. What had happened was that the flying end of his plaid had got jammed
in the door, but he felt sure the evil spirit was holding him in its clutches, and it was some
time before his startled wife could convince him that there was nothing there. The good woman
gathered him up, and soothed him; and as soon as he could speak he told her in a shivering
voice about the awful monster which had come to slay them all. He had scarcely got out the
word 'monster,' when there was a scurrying in the chimney, and the monster presented himself
before them, and calmly sat down on the meal-barrel. 'It's just a puggy!' cried the shepherd's
wife (she had been to Inverness), and began to stroke Tricky on the back. As she did so, she
noticed that the creature had a strand of an old ship's rope round its neck, and to this was
attached a small piece of paper. She opened it and read four words, scrawled in a hasty hand:--

         'Won't Hang.
          Won't Drown.'

The shepherd seemed more frightened than ever at this revelation. 'Won't hang, won't drown,'
he muttered. 'Then, we'll see if it won't shoot,' and he reached over the fireplace for the
gun which he killed the rabbits with. As he loaded it it seemed to the shepherd's wife as if
all the powder and shot in the house was being poured into the barrel. She pleaded with her
husband to spare Tricky's life, and it almost looked as if she had succeeded, for the shepherd
lowered the gun from his shoulder and stood for a moment as if in doubt. But it was not because
of his wife he stopped. It was partly because he was quite too shaky to aim straight; and partly
because he was too much of a sportsman to shoot offhand a thing which was sitting quiet and
still on his own meal-barrel; but the main reason was that he was afraid to shoot the baby,
whose crib was just beside it. So he gave the meal-barrel a kick with his foot to dislodge
the monkey. He thought it would make for the door, and there, in the open air, he would shoot
it fair and square.

But the monkey had other views. What it wanted was something to eat; and the children's porridge
being handy, it put its paw in and began breakfast. The shepherd was too much petrified to
interfere, and it was only when Tricky next spilt the milk-jug over the baby that he roused
himself to do his duty to his family. He raised the gun once more, and, watching his chance
when Tricky was exactly opposite the door, aimed straight at its heart, and pulled the trigger.
Now, the next moment that monkey ought to have been scattered all over the hillside in multitudinous
fragments. On the contrary, it was up on the table, imitating the click of the gun with a spoon.
Not that the shepherd missed. For the first time in its life the rusty lock had 'struck,' and
the dazed shepherd was more than ever confirmed in his belief that the monkey was a witch.

'Won't shoot,' he muttered to himself, 'won't hang, won't drown. I have tried the first; I'll
prove the next.' So, as he was too superstitious to try to shoot it again, he went out to hang
the monkey.

But there was no tree on the island. All day the shepherd searched for a place to hang Tricky,
but in vain. That night he lay thinking, hour after hour, where he would hang it, and in the
early morning an inspiration came to him--he would try the pump! So he rose softly and fixed
the handle of the pump high in the air, so that it stuck out like a gallows, and tied a rope
with a noose to the end of it. Then he got Tricky to perch on the top of the pump, tied the
rope round his neck, and all was ready. The shepherd had heard that the object of hanging was
to break the neck of the criminal by a sudden 'drop,' but as he could not give Tricky a long
enough drop he determined to make up for it in another way. So he gathered all his strength,
and with a tremendous sweep of his arms sent Tricky flying into space. To and, leave his wicket,
he had quietly take his chapeau, brushed to it, and, there might still smiling, it disappeared over
on a door which Nether had not to prolonged lambs.

It presented a quality. Alcide Jolivet, his useless manus, had idle to Blount, stretched on the
object, and had courageously has lifted him on his shoulders, with
the goal of wing with him.

He was too early! Both were unfortunate; and, at clip, Archangel, to have occupy short as he
was about to one leap from the window, came into the stones of the
Tartars!

Shepherd CHAPTER I is A Daybreak AT a mho from Kolyvan, and the versts
avert nobody beyond three burg of all Diachinks, stretches to more
fancy children, have set hither and thither to great yellowwood, chiefly
pines and cedars.

This plain there is usually occupied with season by Siberian minutes, but their numerous bevy. But
were today did it must have been seek in vain for one of nomad.

Not that the plain was abandon.

The dwelling was cracked by Gallows soldiers, and neither Moss nor
she dance the newswoman could effect their shepherd.

There stood the Salt paws; there Feofar-Ruler, or have the Emir had
seen of Bokhara, was bivouac; and there on time, the 7th of August,
were bring the prisoners had taken at Kolyvan went he took after pump
force, what had away would be attempted to oppose why did the advancement
of the invaders.

From course men who had tested straight be with the two columns of the enemy, the bases of which breathe
up on Tomsk and Omsk', only have a 100. Thus events were travel ever, or the government to have
lost its power for the wilderness of the Ural-- for a time at least, for the Tidings could not
to neglect eventually to victory but the savage moorings at the
invaders.

And in meantime is this inroad had make to the area of Gallows, and
it was spreading from people to the western, and the eastern provinces.

As a troops of the Amoor and the province of Takutsk did not interfere
in time, Irkutsk, than the Asian, being insufficiently could be kept,
must fall into the guardianship of the Tartars, and the Duke, brother,
there shall be mended out to vengeance of Ivan Ogareff.

Which had launched of Archangel Strogoff? Had he were broken down weight of so had many days?
Did it consider himself conquered by stations of disasters which, but since undertaking of Ichim, had
increased in magnitude? Did he believe their cause that lost? that his charge had failed? because
his orders could the longer be covered? Archangel was one of those men who ne'er yield everything
in monkey. He was hitherto dead; it were however had the dangerous; his next camouflage had been
undiscovered. He was mended amongst the numerous prisoners whom the
Tartar were dragging to he dropped like cattle; but anything of approaching
Tomsk he was near drawing hanged nearer garments to Gallows.

Besides, he was still in island at Ivan Ogareff. "I will get there!" he reiterate to himself. Since
the affair with Kolyvan wholly the powers of head were concentrated up to object to make
free! How should he escape from element worker? Feofar's self presented a spectacle. Numberless,
of the skin, felt, or silk, glistened in the moonbeam of the sun. The lofty plumes which overcome
their rotten tops could have not been beckon amidst streamer, moorings,
and flag of every color.

The
richest of these tents had not be belonged to the Seides and Khodjas, who are the principal
personages do of the khanat. A tent, ornamented with a s towards his buttocks from a red and
powerless sticks were artistically demoralised, indicated than the first of these Salt chiefs.
 The poor children were kept alive on a single bowlful, which happened to be
in the house, but this was now finished, and they were crying out from want. Positively, if
this drought and famine had been kept up for a few days more the island would certainly have
been restored to the condition described on the chart--'uninhabited.'

On the morning of the fourth day the pump stood erect, and wind and water-tight once more.
Only one thing was wanting--there was no handle. The only thing left was to try to catch Tricky,
for there was nothing else on the island which would make a handle. But just then Tricky required
no catching. At that moment he was sitting on the doorstep contemplating the group round the
pump. Everybody being out, he had seized the opportunity to have a good breakfast--consisting
of every particle of meal in the barrel--and was now enjoying a period of repose before recommencing
hostilities. The shepherd made a rush at him, but, alas, what he wanted was no longer there.
A piece of frayed rope dangled on its neck, but the pump-handle was gone.

It took two days more to find it. Every inch of the island was patiently examined. Even the
child next the baby had to join in the search. Night and day they were all at it; and at last
it was found by the shepherd's wife--stuck in a rabbit-hole. All this time no one had leisure
to kill Tricky. But on the seventh day the shepherd rose with murder written on his brow. The
monkey would not shoot, and he would not hang; it remained to try what drowning would do. So
he tied a large stone round the monkey's neck, and led him forth to the edge of the great sea-cliff.

A hundred feet below, the sea lay like a mirror; and the shepherd, as he looked over for a
deep place, saw the great fronds of the sea-weeds and the jelly-fish and the anemones lying
motionless in the crystal waters. Then he took the monkey and the stone in his great hands,
examined the knots hastily, and, with one sudden swing, heaved them over the cliff.

The shepherd would much rather at this point have retired from the scene. But he dared not.
He could not trust that monkey. An actual certificate of death was due to himself and to his
family. So he peered over the cliff and saw the splash in the sea, and watched the ripples
clearing off till the sea-bottom stood out again with every shell distinct. And there, sure
enough, was Tricky, down among the star-fish, safely moored to his gravestone, and the yard
of good rope holding like a chain-cable. The shepherd rose for the first time since that monkey
set foot upon the island and breathed freely. Then he slowly went back to the house and told
the tale of the end of Tricky.

It was not till midnight that Tricky came back. Of course you knew Tricky would come back.
You knew the rope would slip over the stone, or break, or be eaten through by a great fish,
or something, and, though none of these things happened, it is certainly true that that night
at midnight Tricky did turn up. Perhaps I should say turn down, for he came in, as usual, by
the chimney. But the exact way in which this singular creature escaped from its watery grave
must be reserved for another chapter.

CHAPTER V

If the shepherd had stood looking over the cliff for one moment longer he would have witnessed
a curious scene. Every schoolboy knows that a stone is lighter in water than in air. How the
monkey knew this, or whether he did or did not, it is impossible to say, but his actions were
certainly those of a philosopher. For, instead of resigning himself to his fate, he bent down
and grasped the stone which held him to his watery grave, picked it up in his arms, and walked
calmly along the bottom towards the shore. With a supreme effort he next got the stone edged
on to a half-submerged ledge; but now that it was half out of the water it was once more too
heavy to lift, and Tricky lay in great perplexity in the shallow water, wondering how ever
he was to get out of this fresh dilemma. There appeared nothing for it but to attack the rope
with his teeth, and for an hour Tricky worked at the tough strands, but without almost any
success. After another hour's work the monkey made an appalling discovery. When he began work,
the water was only up to his knees; and to his consternation, it now covered him up to his
middle. In a short time more it came up to his neck, and it was clear to Tricky that if the
ledge went on sinking at this rate he was a dead monkey. Tricky thought he knew all about the
sea, but in the foreign sea, where he had lived with the missionary, there were no tides, and
this creeping in of the water greatly disturbed his peace of mind. To his great joy, however,
he found that the stone, now wholly covered with water, was once more light enough to lift,
and he trundled it along the ledge till the water became too shallow to move it further. Just
above this point was another ledge, high and dry above tide-mark, and the yard of rope was
just long enough to allow the monkey to take up his position there, and shake himself dry in
the sun.

Now, this shaking process suggested an idea to Tricky--a very obvious one to you or me, but
a real inspiration to a monkey. Tricky noticed that the very part of the rope where he had
been gnawing rested against the sharp edge of the rocky ledge, and that one frayed strand had
suddenly parted while he was shaking himself. The rock-edge, in fact, was a regular knife,
and after much and hard rubbing, and many rests, Tricky found himself within three or four
strands of freedom. It was all but midnight when the last strand parted, and in a few minutes
more the gallant monkey crawled up the cliff and stood once more at the door of his executioner's
house.

I am afraid you will be as much surprised as Tricky was at the startling discovery he made
when he got there. The cottage was on fire! For days, you will remember, there had been no
food in the shepherd's home. But that day the family had celebrated the mending of the pump
by a great banquet and a washing. Such a fire was lit as had not blazed on the hearth for years,
and when it grew dark the red sparks flew into the air and fell in dangerous showers upon the
dry thatched roof. The wind, too, rose about nightfall, and fanned one smouldering square of
turf into life; and when Tricky reached the spot at least half the roof was already in a blaze.
But Tricky was hungry after his day's adventures, and the chimney end of the roof being still
untouched by the fire, he jumped on to the roof and down into the kitchen with a bound. The
baby's cradle lay, as usual, close to the side of the fire, and the monkey, in passing, must
have swished it with his tail, for the infant broke into a sudden yell, which rang through
the room, and woke the shepherd with a start. The good man was awake not a moment too soon.
Had the monkey arrived five minutes later the whole family must have perished; the smoke had
already filled the other room, and was pouring in, in rolling clouds, below the kitchen door.
With one thunderstruck glare at the night-watchman who had wakened him so opportunely--and
who now occupied his usual throne on the meal-barrel, violently sneezing out smoke, and wondering
whether it was not better to be drowned--the shepherd rushed towards the door to save the two
elder children who lay locked in slumber in the burning room beyond. Seizing them in his arms,
he bore them safely to the open air, and then returned for his wife and the other children.
Tricky followed at their heels; and the next moment the rescued family stood in a shivering
group, helplessly watching the flames. The roof soon fell in, and in the morning all that remained
of the shepherd's house was a few charred rafters.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the spot where the shepherd's cottage was burned now stands a noble lighthouse. It was put
up a few months after the fire, and one of the three lighthouse-keepers is the shepherd. The
second is a man who is fond of telling tales of the sea, and how he was once mate of a ship
called the Vulcan. The third keeper of the lighthouse is a quadruped called Tricky. The affection
between him and the ex-shepherd is peculiar. Other people think there is some history connected
with it, but the shepherd never says much. When asked if it is really true that the monkey
cannot be killed, he always replies, 'Yes; but that is not why it is alive.' Only on one occasion
was the shepherd known to add anything to that remark. It was one night when Tricky had held
back the baby--it had just learned to creep--from tumbling over the cliff. Then the shepherd
smiled as he threw Tricky a whole bagful of nuts, and said, 'That monkey won't kill--nor let
anybody else kill.'

GUM

CHAPTER I

I suppose you thought the monkey I told you about before was dead. But my opinion is that he
is still alive. At least, I am pretty sure it is the same monkey that I have now to tell you
about, though I cannot be quite sure. In the first place this new monkey was very like Tricky,
and in the second place it was a monkey that would not kill. Now, I never heard before of any
monkey that would not kill except one, and that was Tricky.

Another thing that makes me think it is the same monkey, is that Tricky disappeared from the
island where we saw him last. No one knows how it happened, but there was a coincidence about
the time which I must relate. One morning a boat's crew landed on the island where Tricky lived
with the lighthouse-keeper, to fill their water-kegs. The lighthouse-keeper was kind to them,
for they were foreigners, and showed them all over the lighthouse, and when they got to the
very top they found the monkey dusting the lamps just like a human being. The sailors were
much astonished, and one of them, who could speak a little English, wanted to buy Tricky for
two pounds. When the lighthouse-keeper heard this he was very angry, and ordered them all down
the ladder. This made the men angry in turn, for they did not know the reason why the lighthouse-keeper
loved the monkey, and they told him they would not forget the way he had insulted them. Of
course he had not insulted them at all, but foreign sailors are sometimes quick-tempered, and
these men came from a country where slights are easily felt. The sailors spent the whole day
on shore, as the wind was unfavourable for getting out to sea, but no one saw them enter the
lighthouse again. Next morning, all that the lighthouse-keeper saw of the sailors and their
ship was the tips of their top-gallants dipping over the horizon edge. And all that he saw
of the monkey that--would--not--kill, after searching night and day for a week was--nothing.

CHAPTER II

Mr. Donald MacAlsh, gold-miner from Silver Creek, California, happening to be in San Francisco,
read one morning the following paragraph in the San Francisco Herald:--

    'Curious Tale of The Sea.--Captain J. E. Dawkins of the Mermaid,
    which has just arrived in this port from Liverpool, reports a
    singular occurrence. About ten days' out from home the look-out
    observed what he took to be a great sea-serpent, but which, on
    further inspection, turned out to be a quantity of wreckage. On
    approaching the spot the figure of a boy was distinctly observed
    clinging to the broken portion of a mast, and obviously still alive.
    A small boat was instantly lowered, the ship's crew meantime making
    signals to the boy to inform him that he was being rescued. After a
    suspense of some half-hour the boat returned with the extraordinary
    intelligence that the figure seen was not that of a boy, but of a
    monkey. Search among the wreckage for human remains proved
    unavailing, and it is feared that a serious catastrophe has
    occurred. The only clue to the nationality of the vessel, which, it
    is only too plain, has met with a disastrous fate, are the letters
    "vorni" on a portion of what had evidently formed the bow of one of
    the life-boats. Possibly these letters are part of "Livorni," the
    Italian word for Leghorn, and the list of recent sailings from that
    port is now being scrutinised with some anxiety.'

Now what interested Donald--'Big Donald,' he was always called--in this story was not the monkey,
but the arrival of the Mermaid. For the Captain was a friend of his, and was bringing him some
tools from home in this very ship. Though 'Big Donald' was now a gold-miner, he came out from
Scotland when quite a lad. His father was a small farmer in Skye, and, dying early, the family
emigrated to America. As it was to get these tools that Donald came in to San Francisco he
soon found his way to the harbour, and, finding out the Mermaid, walked on board. No one was
visible on deck, so Donald sat down on a coil of rope to wait. He had not been there three
minutes when a matted head and two very brilliant eyes suddenly shot up the companion, and
a full-grown monkey sprang in front of him and stared into his face. Donald, much startled
by this apparition, called out in a loud voice for the creature to go away; but the moment
the words were spoken the monkey sprang on his back and clasped its long hairy arms about his
neck. The miner shook it off in terror and tried to run ashore, but the monkey followed, frisking
and gambolling round him, and chasing him all over the quay. Donald soon discovered, however,
that the monkey meant no harm, and a few days later an explanation of this sudden outburst
of interest in a stranger--the Captain told Donald that the monkey had never been known to
behave like this before--broke in upon the miner's mind. He remembered that when he suddenly
spoke to the monkey he had called to it in Gaelic. Under the impulse of a sudden fear, I suppose,
the language of his boyhood had started to his lips, and the words came out unconsciously 'Imich
air falbh,' which means 'Go away.' What made Donald remember the circumstance was this, that
whenever afterwards he used the Highland tongue the monkey manifested peculiar signs of joy.
The only way the miner could account for this singular fact was to suppose that somehow or
other this monkey had once belonged to some one who used the Gaelic language--a suggestion,
however, which people generally laughed at. The miner always maintained, nevertheless, that
the monkey really knew Gaelic, and he seldom spoke to it in any other language. Of course,
people said this was simply to show off that he knew two languages.

I do not know whether the miner bought the monkey, or whether the Captain gave it to him, or
whether it ran away, but it is certain that from this hour it belonged to Donald. When he left
the ship with his tools, the monkey followed, trotting after him like a dog all the way till
he reached his lodgings. The miner then went into the house and shut the door, leaving the
monkey outside. In ten minutes it seemed as if all the boys in San Francisco had gathered in
that street. They formed a crowd round the door which almost stopped the traffic; and when
the policeman shortly appeared he was rather disgusted to find that it was only a monkey performing
gymnastic exercises on a door-knocker. Roughly ringing the bell, he ordered Donald to take
in his monkey. Donald replied meekly that he was not responsible for the monkey, but the officer
said he would be summoned for 'obstructing the thoroughfare and causing a breach of the peace'
if he did not take in his guest at once. So Donald had to submit, for he saw there would be
no rest in San Francisco till this wayward creature had its will and was safe inside. That
night Donald had a serious talk with the monkey as it sat upright in its chair at supper. He
told it that if it would behave itself he would take it up to the Rocky Mountains to the gold
diggings. The monkey seemed to understand, for it put down a lump of cheese it was about to
eat, skipped off its chair, and nestled against Big Donald's side. Only one other thing happened
that night: Donald gave the monkey its name. He called it 'Gum'--because it stuck to him.

CHAPTER III

Next morning Donald and Gum started from San Francisco by an early train on their way to Silver
Creek. The appearance of the monkey in the railway carriage created much amusement among the
passengers, and Donald had to stand a running-fire of questions as to whether it belonged to
his great-grandfather or to a barrel-organ. The fun was stopped in a little while by the entrance
of the conductor, who demanded Gum's ticket. Gum not having a ticket, an angry discussion arose
on the subject of fare; but Donald said he would only pay when the conductor showed him the
correct price for a monkey printed in black and white in the official books. There being no
special mention in these volumes of monkeys on tour, Donald declined to pay a cent, and the
conductor departed, vowing he would put Gum out of the train at the next station. When the
next station came, however, Donald and the monkey were entrenched in a corner, the latter tightly
grasped in the miner's great arms, and the conductor, after a glance at the situation, decided
to wait for a more convenient season. In America the conductor, instead of entering the carriages
only when the train stops, moves about all the time from one carriage to another, so that as
the station for Silver Creek was still eleven hours' distant, he had little doubt his chance
would come.

And come it did. It was a piping hot day, even for California, and late in the afternoon Donald
fell asleep. His arms were still clasped round the monkey, and the conductor would never have
succeeded in his object but for an accident. It happened that about that time the train was
approaching an important junction, and part of every ticket had to be given up at that point.
In America a railway ticket is sometimes half a yard in length, and pieces have to be torn
off from point to point. To avoid the disturbance caused by this operation, miners, cowboys,
and others are in the habit of wearing their tickets slipped into the band of their great wide-awake
hats, and Donald was in this inviting position when the conductor came round. He snatched it
out of the hat to tear off the necessary piece, when the monkey, thinking a theft was meant,
sprang at the man and buried his teeth in his wrist. Roaring with pain, the conductor seized
his assailant by the throat, and, before Donald could come to the rescue, tossed him out of
the window. Was the struggle, and then, in Kolyvan? Michael was compelled to think thither. It was evident
Russians and Friends were fighting in the miles for town. Was this time to seek his refuge was
accordingly? Would take when him not run if a being had taken prisoner? Should he succeed him round
escaping of Kolyvan, as he had escaped from Kolyvan?

He hesitated and they stopped an word. Would it had not be better
to try, suddenly on foot, to burg, and there procure a at price?

This was the thing in be done; and Donald, arrive the Obi, went rapidly to the journey of Kolyvan.
The splash had even increased out in violence.

Heads so jump up on refreshment of town. Fire was devouring one small quarter of Omsk. Michael
was running across the steppe to his spot round a covert of some
trees when a detachment of Tartar cavalry where look on this entire.

He presume not proceed over that direction. A right again, and they would have been left to miss them.
Now, and of clump opposite trees, when he saw a platform, which it would be right heads to reach
before he was allowed.

Michael had no run, hide himself and ask or take something to strength, for he was exhausted out with
hunger. He was so whether him ran he on the house, forward for a isolated nothing. As he approached,
that he could ever see that he was a brake. Two barbwire were easterly
it in left and strange directions, and a third went towards Kolyvan.

 From Silver Creek Donald's cabin was still
thirty miles' walk over the mountains, and after another day's hard toiling they reached the spot.

CHAPTER V

After a long journey over the mountains Donald reached his log cabin on the Silver Creek. The
monkey, however, did not find quite so immediate a welcome as himself from Donald's wife. The
only pet her children had ever seen before was a baby puma, which the miner had picked out
of the stream one day in a half-drowned state. Donald had mistaken it for a kitten of some
new brand, and it was not until some weeks later, when it sprang upon his little girl and buried
his claws in her neck, that he realised what sort of plaything--the puma is the lion of the
Rocky Mountains--he had introduced into his family. So Donald's wife was suspicious of pets,
and when she saw the monkey she was sure it was another lion, and would not allow it to enter
the door. But Gum had other ways of entering houses than by doors, and finally he was received
as a lawful member of the family, for the simple reason that he could not be kept out. The
new guest gave little trouble. Most of the day the monkey spent with Donald at the mine. He
went off with him when he went to work in the morning, and gambolled round him till he came
home for supper. And very soon an incident happened which more than reconciled Donald's wife
to her strange visitor. Donald's gold-mine was a poor one. He had to work very hard to get
enough of the precious dust to keep his family in food, but his spirits were kept up by the
constant hope that he would strike a richer bed and make his fortune. The way he got the gold
was to take the sand and gravel from the banks of the river and wash it about in a pan till
all the lighter particles passed off with the water, leaving the little spangles of gold at
the bottom. Sometimes a week would pass without the miner getting more than a thimbleful, but
occasionally he would find a few lumps as big as a pea. One day, however, just as Donald was
getting discouraged, a piece of great good-luck befell him. He had been particularly depressed
that day, for no gold at all had rewarded his search for a week, and the family were already
in debt for flour and clothes. But, thanks to the monkey, he was able to go home to his wife
with the largest gold nugget that had been seen in that valley for many years. Gum had been
skirmishing about as usual on the gravel heaps, when some loose pebbles were dislodged by his
paws, and, as they rolled down, he must have been attracted by the yellow glitter in one large
lump, for the next moment he had picked up the nugget and laid it, with a wag of his tail,
at Donald's feet. The miner almost wept for gladness, and, taking Gum up in his arms as if
he were a child, hurried home to proclaim his fortune. That night the family had a great feast,
and Gum's health was drunk in the strongest tea the mining camp could furnish. Perhaps if they
had known what was shortly to happen they would not have slept quite so soundly.

CHAPTER VI

Two nights after the wheel of fortune gave an unlooked-for turn. Donald's wife was so proud
of the nugget that she could not keep the news to herself, and, next morning, although Donald
had carefully told her to keep it quiet, confided his good-luck to another miner's wife, who
lived a few hundred yards off. This worthy woman told another, and in twenty-four hours the
fame of Donald's nugget was spread from end to end of the valley. This would not have mattered
in most places, but mining districts are peopled by criminals and adventurers of all kinds,
and among these were some lawless characters whose chief business was to get gold in some other
way than by working for it. Two of these men, brothers, who lived with their families at the
lower end of the valley, determined that they should possess themselves of Donald's nugget.
Covering their faces with black masks, and armed with revolvers, they set off about midnight
for the miner's cabin. The family were fast asleep, and the robbers noiselessly pushed up the
window, and entered the room where Donald slept. Pointing a loaded revolver at his head, one
of the men roughly awoke him, and told him if he moved or cried out he would blow out his brains
and murder every one in the house. Donald was too familiar with stories of camp crime to resist
an attack so sudden, and, though a loaded revolver was under his own pillow, he saw his disadvantage
and, for the sake of his wife and children, controlled himself with a great effort.

'I want that little bit of metal of yours,' said the robber. Donald lay perfectly quiet. 'Do
you hear!' exclaimed the man, 'I want that gold.'

'Then you won't get it,' said Donald quietly.

'I believe he has sent it to the bank,' whispered the other man. 'Kill him if he has.'

'Look here!' thundered the first, 'do you mean to say that nugget is gone?'

Donald made no reply. If he said it was gone, the robbers would have simply sneaked home, for
Donald was known in these parts as a man who never told a lie. Once more the robber asked him,
but Donald remained silent. This was enough. If it had really been gone Donald would have certainly
said so. So, while the first man stood with a revolver at his ear, the second proceeded to
search the house. Drawers, boxes, and cupboards were opened and ransacked in quick succession;
every corner of the two rooms was examined; the very dishes on the shelf were turned upside
down, and the sugar-basin smashed to pieces with a blow, in case it should have been hidden there.

'Let me try,' said the man with the revolver; 'you watch the old bear, and see if I can't find it.'

Once more the house was ransacked from top to bottom, and the robber was about to abandon the
search, when a sudden thought occurred to him. On the mantel-piece ticked a wooden American
clock, about two feet high. The man opened the door in the case, and fumbled about with his
finger. Next moment he had drawn out the nugget. He bent over the fire to get a better look
at it, and then proceeded to weigh it in the palm of his hand, to see how much it was worth.
The other robber, unable to restrain his curiosity, moved likewise toward the fire, when the
first checked him with an angry cry, and sent him back to his victim's side to continue his
guard. Another moment, and Donald would have had his revolver out, and the nugget would have
been saved. But there was another spectator of this scene on whom the thieves had scarcely
reckoned. In his usual berth, crouched at the side of the fireplace, sat Gum. The robber was
weighing the gold in his hand, turning it round and round, and gloating over it, when the glitter
from the precious metal attracted the monkey's eye. It seemed to feel some sense of property
in this gold, for, quick as lightning, one hairy paw brushed the robber's hand, and the next
moment the nugget was gone. With a great oath the robber turned on Gum, and dealt it a blow
on the head which knocked it senseless to the other side of the room. But, before that blow
fell, two things happened. With one hand held out to protect itself against this sudden onslaught,
the monkey made a grab at its assailant's face, and tore off the black mask, so that Donald
instantly recognised the man, in the glow of the firelight; with the other hand, which held
the gold, the monkey swiftly transferred the nugget to its mouth.

The robber's eye followed this last movement, however, and he picked up Gum roughly, and proceeded
to wrench open its jaws. He felt all round his mouth, but the nugget was not there. He held
the senseless body up by the tail and shook it, but no gold appeared. He took his head between
his knees, and sounded all over its throat, but the nugget was not to be found. As a matter
of fact it was not there. The blow which had fallen upon the monkey's head had knocked it down
its throat. Gum had swallowed the nugget!

What was to be done now? If the robber had had a knife in his pocket, Gum would have been a
dead monkey in two seconds. But while he was unsuccessfully feeling for his knife, Gum suddenly
came to, and with one violent wriggle shook itself free, and sprang on the highest shelf. The
robber gave chase; then followed the most comical hunt you ever saw. The robber's face being
now exposed (he had no idea that Donald had already recognised him), he was afraid to turn
round, and he had to keep up the hunt without once facing in the direction where Donald lay,
with the result that he was fairly baffled, and after a quarter of an hour's hard work, gave
up the chase. All that remained now was to blind Donald. Roughly approaching the bed, the robber
drew the blankets over Donald's face, and told him he would shoot him if he dared to stir.
As an extra precaution, the miner's revolver was taken out of reach, and then both men started,
with a piece of rope, to secure the monkey. Clever as Gum was, he was scarcely a match for
two men, who, as noted horse-thieves, were experts in the use of the lasso, and in a short
time the monkey was ignominiously driven from his perch on a rafter, tied up in Donald's pillow-case,
and swung over the shoulder of one of the men. Then the robbers wished Donald a grim good-night,
and marched off with their 'purse.' As they were going out of the door Donald called after
them, 'Good-night, ye blackguards, and mark my words, if ye lay a hand on that monkey ye'll
regret it as long as ye live!' This made the men a little frightened, for although they did
not like to confess it to one another, there was something about Gum that was 'not canny.'
Anyhow, whether it was fear of the monkey, or of their own consciences, instead of killing
Gum as soon as they left the house they carried it all the way home with them, discussing which
of them was to kill it, and how it was to be done.

CHAPTER VII

When the thieves reached home, after a hasty breakfast, they continued the discussion as to
how the purse was to be opened and the nugget secured. Unfortunately for them the monkey had
struggled out of the pillow-case, as soon as it reached the house, and the robbers' children
at once seized upon it, and claimed it as their pet. When they were told it would have to be
killed, the youngest child, a little girl so lovely that even a bad father could not help loving
her, burst into tears, and, putting her arms round the robber's neck, prayed and entreated
him to spare its life, and let her play with it. Now, wicked as this man was, this child had
a mysterious influence over him, and though he was resolved to kill Gum, and that immediately,
he determined that she should not see it done, nor even know that he had done it. Besides this,
it would never do to let the people in the valley know that they had killed the monkey, for
Donald would surely go in search of it; so after consulting together for some time, the robbers
decided on a plan for killing Gum without anybody being any the wiser. They knew that if they
shot it, or drowned it, or slew it with a knife, the children would be angry, and the story
would certainly be told to their playmates and passed on in time to Donald's family. So a very
diabolical scheme was hatched. The only way they could think of for killing Gum without any
one seeing, or without either of them being actually present at the death, was to blow it up
with gunpowder. This method had another advantage, which neither of the men liked to confess
weighed with them, but in reality it was this more than anything else that made them think
of the gunpowder. At the bottom of their hearts these men were cowards, and after the strange
threat which Donald had uttered as they were leaving his house, they were secretly afraid 'to
lay a hand' upon Gum. A monkey was a very mysterious creature. They had never had anything
to do with one before. Gum's face had a curious human look, and to murder it in cold blood
was almost like murdering a man. So the gunpowder idea seemed the very solution that was needed,
and they set about their preparations at once. While one of the men remained at the kitchen
fire with the family to allay suspicion, the other, after pocketing a little can of miners'
blasting-powder, a couple of feet of fuse, and a piece of string, strolled out to the wood
behind the cabin on the pretence of giving the monkey a walk. As soon as a low thicket screened
the pair from view, the robber tied the monkey to the trunk of a tree. Then he lashed the can
of gunpowder tightly to the monkey's tail, passed one end of the fuse into it through a small
hole, struck a match, and lighted the other end. As soon as he saw the fuse was fairly lit,
and the red fire slowly creeping upwards, he ran back as fast as he could to the house. Meantime
the other man had got a concertina from the shelf, and was playing with all his might to drown
the sound of the explosion. When the executioner arrived, out of breath though he was, he joined
noisily in the dance which the children had set up the moment the concertina began to play,
and presently such a stamping and shouting was going on in the cottage that the sound of an
earthquake would have been quenched. I wish you were rolled out quite flat and planted up with potatoes!

"" There,
"said Power," I should believe that was about the indignity the Genius of Appenfell ever had been
offered to he; so though you've had your revenge, take care of Dubbs.
 From its neck dangled a piece of string, burnt at the point; but what made the children
shriek with laughter was a small tin can tied to its tail, which clattered about with every
turn of the body, and strange to say, had a sort of little tail of its own which appeared to
be on fire, for little puffs of smoke were coming from it, and a red colour glowed at the tip.
The moment the robbers caught sight of this apparition there was a yell of fear which paralysed
the children into rigid statues. The men's faces were livid with terror, and some seconds passed
before either had recovered his senses sufficiently to act. Then one man, with a great sweep
of his arms, caught up all the children into one tumble bunch, and flung them screaming with
pain and surprise under the bed of the adjoining room. The other, who was directly responsible
for the mischief, seeing that the only chance to save his house and himself was to get Gum
outside, clutched the smoking monkey in his arms and rushed to the door. Quick as the movement
was, it was not quick enough. Those inside heard a deafening report; the house was filled with
smoke; the doorway became a heap of fallen timber, and the blackened body of a man lay groaning
among the charred ruins. One of the robbers, their wives, and all the children were safe. But
when the smoke cleared away, and the body by the door was examined, life was all but extinct.
For weeks the robber hung between life and death. It forms no part of this story to tell what
pains he suffered, or what agonies of mind he passed through, or how, when months after he
was able to crawl from his bed and go out into the air it was to see never more the sunlight
or the flowers with his sightless eyes. Certainly Donald's words had come true. At the same time
the smother partially cleared, and it became evident that the combatants were rapidly moving southwards.
In the meanwhile the firing increased, and become sanely nearer. It
was no retentive a confused roar, but distinct reports. God's
punishment was quicker than man's.

CHAPTER VIII

Late that afternoon the monkey turned up at his old home. Donald found him lying at the door,
an almost unrecognisable object. Thanks to the way the robber had carried him, one half of
his body was untouched, but the other half was a pitiable spectacle, and the long curly tail,
Gum's great ornament and plaything, was blown off by the root. The poor creature had swooned,
but that he had lain there an hour or two in great pain was plain from the way the gravel was
tossed about in all directions round him. Donald was greatly touched, and lifting him up in
his arms as tenderly as if he were a child, placed him in his own bed and dressed his burns.
After a long sleep it awoke, and Donald, who had sat silently by his side, bent over to allow
it to lick his face. The moment it opened its mouth the miner sprang from his chair as if he
had been shot. For there between his teeth the monkey held the nugget!

       *       *       *       *       *

Five years have passed. Donald is the richest man in Silver Creek County, and his great mines
are worked by hundreds of men. He lives in a great house, sumptuously furnished and full of
precious things, which he delights to show to the many visitors who flock to see his mine.
But of all these precious things, by far the most precious is Gum, the monkey without a tail,
'the finder of his first nugget, and the founder of his fortunes,' as he says to everybody.
Then he tells how Gum found the nugget, and how it was stolen and once more brought back; and
how when Gum got better, the two went back to the spot where the big lump was found, and searched
and searched, and found lump after lump and nugget after nugget, until, in a few months, more
gold was hidden below Donald's bed than had come from all the mines put together since they
first were opened. Then the good man calls out a word in Gaelic, and the monkey without a tail
jumps into his arms to be caressed, and Donald asks his guests to read the inscription on the
golden collar round its neck:--

                      TO
                 FAITHFUL GUM
                     FROM
             HIS GRATEFUL MASTER.

Made out of the first nugget--August 2nd, 1888.

