Behind these marched the druids themselves, clad in their purple-striped white robes, and their
temples also wreathed in oak leaves. In their midst was Julyan, happy and proud; Julyan who
was glad to leave this world in order to rejoin his friend Armel, and journey in his company
over the unknown worlds.

Finally came the married female druids, clad in white tunics with gold belts, and the nine
virgins of the Isle of Sen, clad in their black tunics, their belts of brass, their arms bare,
their green chaplets and their gold harps. Hena walked at the head of the latter. Her eyes
looked for her father, her mother and her relatives--Joel, Margarid and their family had been
placed in the front rank of the crowd--they soon recognized their daughter; their hearts went
out to her.

The druids ranked themselves beside the sacrificial stones. The bards ceased chanting. One
of the ewaghs than said to the crowd, that all who wished to be remembered to people whom they
had loved and who were no longer here, could deposit their letters and offering on the pyres.

A large number of relatives and friends of those who had long been traveling yonder, thereupon
piously approached the pyres, and deposited letters, flowers and other souvenirs that were
to re-appear in the other worlds, the same as the souls of the bodies that were about to dissolve
in brilliant flames, were to re-appear in a new body.

Nobody, however, not one single person, deposited aught on the pyre of the murderer. As proud
and joyful as Julyan was, Daoulas was crestfallen and frightened. Julyan had everything to
hope for from the continuance of a life that had been uniformly pure and just. The murderer
had everything to fear from the continuance of a life that was stained with crime. After all
the offerings for the departed ones were deposited on the pyres, a profound silence followed.

The ewaghs led Daoulas in chains to the osier effigy. Despite the pitiful cries of the condemned
man, he was pinioned and placed at the foot of the pyre, and the ewaghs remained near him,
axes in hand.

Talyessin, the oldest of all the druids, an old man with long white beard, made a sign to one
of the bards, who thereupon struck his three-stringed harp and intonated the following chant,
after pointing to the murderer:

"This man is of the tribe of Morlech. He killed Houarne of the same tribe. Did he kill him,
like a brave man face to face with equal weapons? No, Daoulas killed Houarne like a coward.
At the noon hour, Houarne was asleep under a tree. Daoulas approached him on tiptoe, axe in
hand and killed his victim with one blow. Little Erick of the same tribe, who happened to be
in a near-by tree picking fruit, saw the murder and him who committed it. On the evening of
the same day the ewaghs seized Daoulas in his tribe. Brought before the druids of Karnak and
confronted by Erick, he confessed his crime. Whereupon the oldest of the druids said:

"'In the name of Hesus, He who is because he is, in the name of Teutates, who presides over
journeys in this world and in the others, hear: The expiatory blood of the murderer is agreeable
to Hesus.... You are about to be born again in other worlds. Your new life will be terrible,
because you were cruel and cowardly.... You will die to be re-born in still greater wretchedness
forever and ever through all eternity.... Become, on the contrary, from the moment that you
are re-born, brave and good, despite the sufferings that you will endure and you will then
die happy, to be re-born yonder, thus forever and ever, through all eternity!!!'"

The bard then addressed himself to the murderer, who emitted fearful cries of terror.

Thus spoke the venerable druid: "Daoulas, you are about to die ... and to meet your victim....
He is waiting for you, he is waiting for you!"

When the bard pronounced these words, a shudder went through the assembled crowd. The fearful
thought of meeting in the next world alive him who was killed in this made them all tremble.

The bard proceeded, turning towards the pyre:

"Daoulas, you are about to die! It is a glorious thing to see the face of a brave and just
person at the moment when he or she voluntarily quits this world for some sacred cause. They
love, at the moment of their departure to see the tender looks of farewell of their parents
and friends. Cowards like yourself, Daoulas, are unworthy of taking a last look at the just.
Hence, Daoulas, you will die and burn hidden in that envelop of osier, the effigy of a man,
as you have become since the commission of the murder."

And the bard cried:

"In the name of Hesus! In the name of Teutates! Glory, glory to the brave! Shame, shame on
the coward!"

All the bards struck upon their harps and their cymbals, and cried in chorus:

"Glory, glory to the brave! Shame, shame on the coward!"

An ewagh then took up a sacred knife, cut off the murderer's life and cast his body inside
of the huge osier effigy of a man. The pyre was set on fire. The harps and cymbals struck up
in chorus, and all the tribes repeated aloud the last words of the bard:

"Shame on the coward!"

Soon the murderer's pyre was a raging mass of flame, within which was seen for a moment the
effigy of a man like a giant on fire. The flames lighted the tops of the oaks of the forest,
the colossal stones of Karnak, and even the vast expanse of the sea, while the moon inundated
the space with its divine light. A few minutes later there was nothing left but a heap of ashes
where the pyre of Daoulas had stood.

Julyan was then seen ascending with radiant mien the pyre where lay the body of Armel, his
friend--his pledged brother. Julyan had on his holiday clothes: a blouse of fine material striped
white and blue, held around his waist by an embroidered leather belt, from which hung his knife.
His caped cloak of brown wool was held by a brooch over his left shoulder. An oak crown decked
his manly head. He held in his hand a nosegay of vervain. He looked serene and bold. Hardly
had he ascended the pyre, when again the harps and cymbals struck up, and the bard chanted:

"Who is this? He is a brave man! It is Julyan the laborer; Julyan of the family of Joel, the
brenn of the tribe of Karnak! He fears the gods, and all love him. He is good, he is industrious,
he is brave. He killed Armel not in hate but in a contest, in loyal combat, buckler on arm,
sword in hand, like a true Breton Gaul, who loves to display his bravery and does not fear
death. Armel having departed, Julyan, who had pledged brotherhood to him, wishes to depart
also and join his friend. Glory to Julyan, faithful to the teachings of the druids. He knows
that the creatures of the All-Powerful never die, and his pure and noble blood Julyan now offers
up to Hesus. Glory, hope and happiness to Julyan! He has been good, just and brave. He will
be re-born still happier, still juster, still braver, and ever onward, from world to world,
Julyan will be re-born, his soul being ever re-incarnated in a new body the same as the body
that here puts on new clothes."

"Oh, Gauls! Ye proud souls, to whom death does not exist! Come, come! Remove your eyes from
this earth; rise to the sublimity of heaven. See, see at your feet the abyss of space, dotted
by these myriads of mortals as are all of us, and whom Teutates guides incessantly from the
world that they have lived in towards the world that they are next to inhabit. Oh, what unknown
worlds and marvelous we shall journey through, with our friends and our relatives that have
preceded us, and with those whom we shall precede!"

"No, we are not mortals! Our infinite lives are numbered by myriads and myriads of centuries,
just as are numbered by myriads of myriads the stars in the firmament--mysterious worlds, ever
different, ever new, that we are successively to inhabit."

"Let those fear death who, faithful to the false gods of the Greeks, the Romans and the Jews,
believe that man lives only once, and that after that, stripped of his body, the happy or unhappy
soul remains eternally in the same hell or the same paradise! Aye! They are bound to fear death
who believe that when man quits this life he finds immobility in eternity."

"We Gauls have the right knowledge of God. We hold the secret of death. Man is immortal both
in body and soul. Our destiny from world to world is to see and learn, to the end that at each
of these journeys, if we have led wicked and impure lives, we may purify ourselves and become
better--still better if we have been just and good; and that thus, from new birth to new birth
man rises incessantly towards perfection as endless as his life!"

"Happy, therefore, are the brave who voluntarily leave this world for other regions where they
will ever see new and marvelous sights in the company of those whom they have loved! Happy,
therefore, happy the brave Julyan! He is about to meet again with his friend, and with him
see and know what none of us has yet seen or known, and what all of us shall see and know!
Happy Julyan! Glory, glory to Julyan!"

And all the bards and all the druids, the female druids and the virgins of the Isle of Sen
repeated in chorus to the sound of the harps and the cymbals:

"Happy, Happy Julyan! Glory to Julyan!"

And all the tribes, feeling the thrill of curiosity of death and certain that they all would
eventually become acquainted with the marvels of the other worlds, repeated with their thousands
of voices:

"Happy Julyan! Happy Julyan!"

Standing erect upon his pyre, his face radiant, and at his feet the body of Armel, Julyan raised
his inspired eyes towards the brilliant moon, opened his blouse, drew his long knife, held
up the nosegay of vervain to heaven with his left hand, and with his right firmly plunged his
knife into his breast, uttering as he did so in a strong voice:

"Happy--happy am I. I am to join Armel!"

The pyre was immediately lighted. Julyan, raised for a last, time his nosegay of vervain to
heaven, and then vanished in the midst of the blinding flames, while the chants of the bards
and the clang of harp and cymbals resounded far and wide.

In their impatience to see and know the mysteries of the other world, a large number of men
and women of the tribes rushed towards Julyan's pyre for the purpose of departing with him
and of offering to Hesus an immense hecatomb with their bodies. But Talyessin, the eldest of
the druids, ordered the ewaghs to restrain and hold these faithful people back. He cried out
to them:

"Enough blood has flown without that which is still to flow. But the hour has come when the
blood of Gaul should flow only for freedom. The blood that is shed for liberty is also an agreeable
offering to the All-Powerful."

It was not without great effort that the ewaghs prevented the threatened rush of voluntary
human sacrifices. The pyre of Julyan and Armel burned until the flames had nothing more to
feed upon.

Again profound silence fell upon the crowd. Hena, the virgin of the Isle of Sen, had ascended
the third pyre.

Joel and Margarid, their three sons, Guilhern, Albinik and Mikael, Guilhern's wife and little
children all of whom so dearly loved Hena, all her relatives and all the members of her tribe
held one another in a close embrace, and said to one another:

"There is Hena.... There is our Hena!"

As the virgin of the Isle of Sen stood upon the pyre that was ornamented with white veils,
greens and flowers, the crowds of the tribes cried in one voice: "How beautiful she is!...
How holy!"

