'I might have feared,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, 'if Mary were not so perfectly simple.  Aunt Melicent
managed to abstract all romance, and I never regretted it so little.  She has looked after
him merely because it came in her way as a form of kindness, and is too much his governess
for anything of the other sort.'

'So you really do not wish for the other sort?' said Mrs. Frost, half mortified, as if it were
a slight to her boy.

'I don't know how her father might take it,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, eager to disarm, her.  'With
his grand expectations, and his view of the state of this property, he might make difficulties.
He is fond of expressing his contempt for needy nobility, and I am afraid, after all that has
passed, that this would be the last case in which he would make an exception.'

'Yet you say he is fond of Mary.'

'Very fond.  If anything would triumph over his dislike, it would be his affection for her,
but I had rather my poor Mary had not to put it to the proof.  And, after all, I don't think
it the safest way for a marriage, that the man should be the most attractive, and the woman
the most--'

'Sensible!  Say it, Mary--that is the charm in my nephew's eyes.'

'Your great-nephew is the point!  No, no, Aunt Kitty; you are under a delusion.  The kindness
to Mary is no more than 'auld lang-syne,' and because he thinks her too impossible.  He cannot
afford for his son to marry anything but a grand unquestionable heiress.  Mary's fortune, besides,
depending on speculations, would be nothing to what Lady Fitzjocelyn ought to have.'

'For shame!  I think better of him.  I believe he would be unworldly when Louis's happiness
was concerned.'

'To return to James,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, decidedly: 'I am glad that his uncle should have
declared his intentions.'

'Oh, my dear, we are quite used to that.  I am only glad that Jem takes no heed.  We have had
enough of that!--for my own part,' and the tears arose, 'I never expect that poor Oliver will
think he has done enough in my lifetime.  These things do so grow on a man!  If I had but kept
him at home!'

'It might have been the same.'

'There would have been something to divide his attention.  His brother used to be a sort of
idol; he seemed to love him the more for his quiet, easy ways, and to delight in waiting on
him.  I do believe he delays, because he cannot bear to come home without Henry!'

Mrs. Ponsonby preferred most topics to that of Mrs. Frost's sons, and was relieved by the sight
of the young people returning across the lawn--Fitzjocelyn with his ash stick, but owing a
good deal of support to Mary's firm, well-knit arm.  They showed well together: even lameness
could not disfigure the grace of his leisurely movements; and the bright changefulness and
delicacy of his face contrasted well with the placid nobleness of her composed expression,
while her complexion was heightened and her eyes lighted by exercise, so that she was almost
handsome.  She certainly had been looking uncommonly well lately.  Was this the way they were
to walk together through life?

But Mrs. Ponsonby had known little of married life save the troubles, and she was doubly anxious
for her daughter's sake.  She exceedingly feared unformed characters, and natures that had
no root in themselves. Mary's husband must not lean on her for strength.

She was glad, as with new meaning, she watched their proceedings, to see how easily, and as
a matter of course, Louis let Mary bring his footstool and his slipper, fetch his books, each
at the proper time, read Spanish with him, and make him look out the words in the dictionary
when he knew them by intuition, remind him of orders to be written for his buildings, and manage
him as her pupil.  If she ruled, it was with perfect calmness and simplicity, and the playfulness
was that of brother and sister, not even with the coquettish intimacy of cousinhood.

The field was decidedly open to Roland Dynevor, alias James Frost.

Mrs. Ponsonby was loth to contemplate that contingency, though in all obedience, she exposed
her daughter to the infection.  He was expected on that afternoon, bringing his sister with
him, for he had not withstood the united voices that entreated him to become Fitzjocelyn's
tutor during the vacation, and the whole party had promised to remain for the present as guests
at Ormersfield.

Louis, in high spirits, offered to drive Mrs. Ponsonby to meet the travellers at the station;
and much did he inflict on her poor shattered nerves by the way.  He took no servant, that
there might be the more room, and perched aloft on the driving seat, he could only use his
indefatigable tongue by leaning back with his head turned round to her.  She kept a sharp lookout
ahead; but all her warnings of coming perils only caused him to give a moment's attention to
the horses and the reins, before he again turned backwards to resume his discourse. In the
town, his head was more in the right direction, for he was nodding and returning greetings
every moment; he seemed to have a bowing acquaintance with all the world, and when he drew
up at the station, reached down several times to shake hands with figures whom his father would
barely have acknowledged; exchanging good-humoured inquiries or congratulations with almost
every third person.

Scarcely had the train dashed up before Mrs. Ponsonby was startled by a shout of 'He's there
himself!  Louis!  Louis!' and felt, as well as saw, the springing ascent to the box of a tall
apparition, in a scanty lilac cotton dress, an outgrown black mantle, and a brown straw bonnet,
scarcely confining an overprofusion of fair hair. Louis let go the reins to catch hold of both
hands, and cry, 'Well, old Giraffe! what have you done with Jem?'

'Seeing to the luggage!  You won't let him turn me out!  I must sit here!'

'You must have manners,' said Louis; 'look round, and speak rationally to Mrs. Ponsonby.'

'I never saw she was there!' and slightly colouring, the 'Giraffe' erected her length, turned
round a small insignificant face slightly freckled, with hazel eyes, as light as if they had
been grey; and stretched down a hand to be shaken by her new relation, but she was chiefly
bent on retaining her elevation.

'There, Jem!' she cried exultingly, as he came forth, followed by the trunks and portmanteaus.

'Madcap!' he said; 'but I suppose the first day of the holidays must be privileged.  Ha! Fitzjocelyn,
you're the right man in the right place, whatever Clara is.'

So they drove off, James sitting by Mrs. Ponsonby, and taking care to inform her that, in spite
of her preposterous height, Clara was only sixteen, he began to ask anxious questions as to
Fitzjocelyn's recovery, while she looked up at the pair in front, and thought, from the appearance
of things, that even Louis's tongue was more than rivalled, for the newcomer seemed to say
a sentence in the time he took in saying a word.  Poor Mrs. Ponsonby! she would not have been
happier had she known in which pair of hands the reins were!

'And Louis! how are you?' cried Clara, as soon as this point had been gained; 'are you able
to walk?'

'After a fashion.'

'And does your ankle hurt you?'

'Only if I work it too hard.  One would think that lounging had become a virtue instead of
a vice, to hear the way I am treated.'

'You look--' began Clara.  'But oh, Louis!' cried she, in a sort of hesitating wonder, 'what!
a moustache?'

'Don't say a word:' he lowered his voice.  'Riding is against orders, but I cannot miss the
Yeomanry, under the present aspect of affairs.'

'The invasion!  A man in the train was talking of the war steamers, but Jem laughed.  Do you
believe in it?'

'It is a time when a display of loyalty and national spirit may turn the scale.  I am resolved
to let no trifle prevent me from doing my part,' he said, colouring with enthusiasm.

'You are quite right,' cried Clara.  'You ought to take your vassals, like a feudal chief!
I am sure the defence of one's country ought to outweigh everything.'

'Exactly so.  Our volunteer forces are our strength and glory, and are a happy meeting of all
classes in the common cause.  But say nothing, Clara, or granny will take alarm, and get an
edict from Walby against me.'

'Dear granny!  But I wish we were going home to the Terrace.'

'Thank you.  How flattering!'

'You would be always in and out, and it would be so much more comfortable.  Is Lord Ormersfield
at home?'

'No, he will not come till legislation can bear London no longer.'

'Oh!'--with a sound of great relief.

'You don't know how kind he has been,' said Louis, eagerly.  'You will find it out when you
are in the house with him.'

Clara laughed, but sighed.  'I think we should have had more fun at home.'

'What! than with me for your host?  Try what I can do.  Besides, you overlook Mary.'

'But she has been at school!'

'Well!'

'I didn't bargain for school-girls at home!'

'I should not have classed Mary in that category.'

'Don't ask me to endure any one who has been at school!  Oh, Louis! if you could only guess--if
you would only speak to Jem not to send me back to that place--'

'Aunt Kitty will not consent, I am sure, if you are really unhappy there, my poor Clara.'

'No! no! I am ordered not to tell granny.  It would only vex her, and Jem says it must be.
I don't want her to be vexed, and if I tell you, I may be able to keep it in!'

Out poured the whole flood of troubles, unequal in magnitude, but most trying to the high-spirited
girl.  Formal walks, silent meals, set manners, perpetual French, were a severe trial, but
far worse was the companionship.  Petty vanities, small disputes, fretful jealousies, insincere
tricks, and sentimental secrets, seemed to Clara a great deal more contemptible than the ignorance,
indolence, abrupt manners and boyish tastes which brought her into constant disgrace--and there
seemed to be one perpetual chafing and contradiction, which made her miserable.  And a further
confidence could not help following, though with a warning that Jem must not hear it, for she
did not mind, and he spent every farthing on her that he could afford.  She had been teased
about her dress, told that her friends were mean and shabby, and rejected as a walking companion,
because she had no parasol, and that was vulgar.

'I am sure I wanted to walk with none of them,' said Clara, 'and when our English governess
advised me to get one, I told her I would give in to no such nonsense, for only vulgar people
cared about them. Such a scrape I got into!   Well, then Miss Salter, whose father is a knight,
and who thinks herself the great lady of the school, always bridled whenever she saw me, and,
at last, Lucy Raynor came whispering up, to beg that I would contradict that my grandmamma
kept a school, for Miss Salter was so very particular.'

'I should like to have heard your contradiction.'

'I never would whisper, least of all to Lucy Raynor, so I stood up in the midst, and said,
as clear as I could, that my grandmother had always earned an honest livelihood by teaching
little boys, and that I meant to do the same, for nothing would ever make me have anything
to do with girls.'

'That spoilt it,' said Louis--'the first half was dignified.'

'What was the second?'

'Human nature,' said Louis.

'I see,' said Clara.  'Well, they were famously scandalized, and that was all very nice, for
they let me alone.  But you brought far worse on me, Louis.'

'I!'

'Ay!  'Twas my own fault, though, but I couldn't help it.  You must know, they all are ready
to bow down to the ninety-ninth part of a Lord's little finger; and Miss Brown--that's the
teacher--always reads all the fashionable intelligence as if it were the Arabian Nights, and
imparts little bits to Miss Salter and her pets; and so it was that I heard, whispered across
the table, the dreadful accident to Viscount Fitzjocelyn!'

'Did nobody write to you?'

'Yes--I had a letter from granny, and another from Jem by the next morning's post, or I don't
know what I should have done.  Granny was too busy to write at first; I didn't three parts
believe it before, but there was no keeping in at that first moment.'

'What did you do?'

'I gave one great scream, and flew at the newspaper.  The worst was, that I had to explain,
and then--oh! it was enough to make one sick. Why had I not said I was Lord Ormersfield's cousin?
I turned into a fine aristocratic-looking girl on the spot!  Miss Salter came and fondled,
and wanted me to walk with her!'

'Of course; she had compassion on your distress--amiable feeling!'

'She only wanted to ask ridiculous questions, whether you were handsome.'

'What did you reply?'

'I told them not a word, except that my brother was going to be your tutor.  When I saw Miss
Salter setting off by this line, I made Jem take second-class tickets, that she might be ashamed
of me.'

'My dear Giraffe, bend down your neck, and don't take such a commonplace, conventional view
of your schoolfellows.'

'Conventional! ay, all agree because they know it by experience,' said Clara--'I'm sure I do!'

'Then take the other side--see the best.'

'Jem says you go too far, and are unreasonable with your theory of making the best of every one.'

'By no means.  I always made the worst of Frampton, and now I know what injustice I did him.
I never saw greater kindness and unselfishness than he has shown me.'

'I should like to know what best you would make of these girls!'

'You have to try that!'

'Can I get any possible good by staying?'

'A vast deal.'

'I'm sure Italian, and music, and drawing, are not a good compared with truth, and honour,
and kindness.'

'All those things only grow by staying wherever we may happen to be, unless it is by our own
fault.'

'Tell me what good you mean!'

'Learning not to hate, learning to mend your gloves.  Don't jerk the reins, Clara, or you'll
get me into a scrape.'

Clara could extract no more, nor did she wish it, for having relieved her mind by the overflow,
she only wanted to forget her misfortunes. Her cousin Louis was her chief companion, they had
always felt themselves on the same level of nonsense, and had unreservedly shared each other's
confidences and projects; and ten thousand bits of intelligence were discussed with mutual
ardour, while Clara's ecstasy became uncontrollable as she felt herself coming nearer to her
grandmother.  She finally descended with a bound almost as distressing to her brother as her
ascent had been, and leapt at once to the embrace of Mrs. Frost, who stood there, petting,
kissing her, and playfully threatening all sorts of means to stop her growth. Clara reared
up her giraffe figure, boasting of having overtopped all the world present, except Louis! 
She made but a cold, abrupt response to her cousin Mary's greeting, and presently rushed upstairs
in search of dear old Jane, with an impetus that made Mrs. Frost sigh, and say, 'Poor child!
how happy she is;' and follow her, smiling, while James looked annoyed.

'Never mind, Jem,' said Louis, who had thrown himself at full length on the sofa, 'she deserves
compensation.  Let it fizz.'

'And undo everything!  What do you say to that, Mary?'

'Mary is to say nothing,' said Louis, 'I mean that poor child to have her swing.'

'I shall leave you and James to settle that,' said Mary, quitting them.

'I am very anxious that Clara should form a friendship with Mary,' said James, gravely.

'Friendships can't be crammed down people's throats,' said Louis, in a weary indifferent tone.

'You who have been three months with Mary--!'

'Mary and I did not meet with labels round our necks that here were a pair of friends.  Pray
do you mean to send that victim of yours back to school?'

'Don't set her against it.  I have been telling her of the necessity all the way home.'

'Is it not to be taken into consideration that a bad--not to say a base-style of girl seems
to prevail there?'

'I can't help it, Fitzjocelyn,' cried Jem, ruffling up his hair, as he always did when vexed.
'Girls fit to be her companions don't go to school--or to no school within my means.  This
place has sound superiors, and she must be provided with a marketable stock of accomplishments,
so there's no choice.  I can trust her not to forget that she is a Dynevor.'

'Query as to the benefit of that recollection.'

'What do you mean?'

'That I never saw evils lessened by private self-exaltation.'

'Very philosophical! but as a matter of fact, what was it but the sense of my birth that kept
me out of all the mischief I was exposed to at the Grammar School!'

'I always thought it had been something more respectable,' said Louis, his voice growing more
sleepy.

'Pshaw!  Primary motives being understood, secondary stand common wear the best.'

'As long as they don't eat into the primary.'

'The long and short of it is,' exclaimed James, impatiently, 'that we must have no nonsense
about Clara.  It is pain enough to me to inflict all this on her, but I would not do it, if
I thought it were more than mere discomfort.  Her principles are fixed, she is above these
trumperies.  But you have the sense to see that her whole welfare may depend on whether she
gets fitted to be a valuable accomplished governess or a mere bonne, tossed about among nursery-maids.
There's where poverty galls!  Don't go and set my grandmother on!  If she grew wretched and
took Clara away, it would be mere condemning of her to rudeness and struggling!'

'Very well,' said Louis, as James concluded the brief sentences, uttered in the bitterness
of his heart, 'one bargain I make.  If I am to hold my tongue about school, I will have my
own way with her in the holidays.'

'I tell you, Louis, that it is time to have done with childishness. Clara is growing up--I
won't have you encourage her in all that wild flightiness--I didn't want to have had her here
at all!  If she is ever to be a reasonable, conformable woman, it is high time to begin.  I
can't have you undoing the work of six months! when Mary might make some hand of her, too--'

James stopped.  Louis's eyes were shut, and he appeared to be completely asleep.  If silence
were acquiescence, it was at least gained; and so he went away, and on returning, intended
to impress his lessons of reserve on Clara and her grandmother, but was prevented by finding
Mrs. Ponsonby and her daughter already in the library, consulting over some letters, while
Clara sat at her grandmother's knee in the full felicity of hearing all the Northwold news.

The tea was brought in, and there was an inquiry for Louis.  He came slowly forward from the
sofa at the dark end of the room, but disclaimed, of course, the accusation of fatigue.

'A very bad sign,' said James, 'that you have been there all this time without our finding
it out.  Decidedly, you have taken me in. You don't look half as well as you promised.  You
are not the same colour ten minutes together, just now white, and now--how you redden!'

'Don't, Jem!' cried Louis, as each observation renewed the tide of burning crimson in his cheek.
'It is like whistling to a turkey-cock. If I had but the blue variety, it might be more comfortable,
as well as more interesting.'

Clara went into a choking paroxysm of laughter, which her brother tried to moderate by a look,
and Louis rendered more convulsive by quoting

     'Marked you his cheek of heavenly blue,'

and looked with a mischievous amusement at James's ill-suppressed displeasure at the merriment
that knew no bounds, till even Mrs. Frost, who had laughed at first as much at James's distress
as at Louis's travestie or Clara's fun, thought it time to check it by saying, 'You are right,
Jem, he is not half so strong as he thinks himself.  You must keep him in good order.'

'Take care, Aunt Kitty,' said Louis; 'you'll make me restive.  A tutor and governess both!
I appeal!  Shall we endure it, Clara?'

'Britons never shall be slaves!' was the eager response.

'Worthy of the daughter of the Pendragons,' said Louis; 'but it lost half its effect from being
stifled with laughing.  You should command yourself, Clara, when you utter a sentiment.  I
beg to repeat Miss Frost Dynevor's novel and striking speech, and declare my adhesion, 'Britons
never shall be slaves!'  Liberty, fraternity, and equality! Tyrants, beware!'

'You ungrateful boy!' said Mrs. Frost; 'that's the way you use your good governess!'

'Only the way the nineteenth century treats all its good governesses,' said Louis.

'When it gets past them,' said Mary, smiling.  'I hope you did not think I was not ready to
give you up to your tutor?'

Mary found the renunciation more complete than perhaps she had expected.  The return of his
cousins had made Fitzjocelyn a different creature.  He did indeed read with James for two hours
every morning, but this was his whole concession to discipline; otherwise he was more wayward
and desultory than ever, and seemed bent on teazing James, and amusing himself by making Clara
extravagantly wild and idle.  Tired of his long confinement, he threw off all prudence with
regard to health, as well as all struggle with his volatile habits; and the more he was scolded,
the more he seemed to delight in making meekly ridiculous answers and going his own way.  Sometimes
he and Clara would make an appointment, at some unearthly hour, to see Mrs. Morris make cheese,
or to find the sun-dew blossom open, or to sketch some effect of morning sun.  Louis would
afterwards be tired and unhinged the whole day, but never convinced, only capable of promoting
Clara's chatter; and ready the next day to stand about with her in the sun at the cottages,
to the increase of her freckles, and the detriment of his ankle.  Their frolics would have
been more comprehensible had she been more attractive; but her boisterous spirits were not
engaging to any one but Louis, who seemed to enjoy them in proportion to her brother's annoyance,
and to let himself down into nearly equal folly.

He gave some slight explanation to Mary, one day when he had been reminded of one of their
former occupations--'Ah! I have no time for that now.  You see there's nobody else to protect
that poor Giraffe from being too rational.'

'Is that her great danger?' said Mary.

'Take my advice, Mary, let her alone.  Follow your own judgment, and not poor Jem's fidgets.
He wants to be 'father, mother both, and uncle, all in one,' and so he misses his natural vocation
of elder brother.  He wants to make a woman of her before her time; and now he has his way
with her at school, he shall let her have a little compensation at home.'

'Is this good for her?  Is it the only way she can be happy?'

'It is her way, at least; and if you knew the penance she undergoes at school, you would not
grudge it to her.  She is under his orders not to disclose the secrets of her prison-house,
lest they should disquiet Aunt Catharine; and she will not turn to you, because--I beg your
pardon, Mary--she has imbibed a distrust of all school-girls; and besides, Jem has gone and
insisted on your being her friend more than human nature can stand.'

'It is a great pity,' said Mary, smiling, but grieved; 'I should not have been able to do her
much good--but if I could only try!'

'I'll tell you,' said Louis, coming near, with a look between confidence and embarrassment;
'is it in the power of woman to make her dress look rather more like other people's without
inflaming the blood of the Dynevors--cautiously, you know?  Even my father does not dare to
give her half-a-sovereign for pocket-money; but do ask your mother if she could not be made
such that those girls should not make her their laughingstock.'

'You don't mean it!'

'Aye, I do; and she has not even told James, lest he should wish to spend more upon her.  She
glories in it, but that is hardly wholesome.'

'Then she told you?'

'Oh, yes!  We always were brothers!  It is great fun to have her here! I always wished it,
and I'm glad it has come before they have made her get out of the boy.  He will be father to
the woman some day; and that will be soon enough, without teasing her.'

Mary wished to ask whether all this were for Clara's good, but she could not very well put
such a question to him; and, after all, it was noticeable that, noisy and unguarded as Clara's
chatter was, there never was anything that in itself should not have been said: though her
manner with Louis was unceremonious, it was never flirting; and refinement of mind was as evident
in her rough-and-ready manner as in his high-bred quietness.  This seemed to account for Mrs.
Frost's non-interference, which at first amazed her niece; but Aunt Catharine's element was
chiefly with boys, and her love for Clara, though very great, showed itself chiefly in still
regarding her as a mere child, petting her to atone for the privations of school, and while
she might assent to the propriety of James's restrictions, always laughing or looking aside
when they were eluded.

James argued and remonstrated.  He said a great deal, always had the advantage in vehemence,
and appeared to reduce Louis to a condition of quaint debonnaire indifference; and warfare
seemed the normal state of the cousins, the one fiery and sensitive, the other cool and impassive,
and yet as appropriate to each other as the pepper and the cucumber, to borrow a bon mot from
their neighbour, Sydney Calcott.

If Jem came to Mary brimful of annoyance with Louis's folly, a mild word of assent was sufficient
to make him turn round and do battle with the imaginary enemy who was always depreciating Fitzjocelyn.
To make up for Clara's avoidance of Mary, he rendered her his prime counsellor, and many an
hour was spent in pacing up and down the garden in the summer twilight; while she did her best
to pacify him by suggesting that thorough relaxation would give spirits and patience for Clara's
next half year, and that it might be wiser not to overstrain his own undefined authority, while
the lawful power, Aunt Catharine, did not interfere.  Surely she might safely be trusted to
watch over her own granddaughter; and while Clara was so perfectly simple, and Louis such as
he was, more evil than good might result from inculcating reserve. At any rate, it was hard
to meddle with the poor child's few weeks of happiness, and to this James always agreed; and
then he came the next day to relieve himself by fighting the battle over again.  So constantly
did this occur, that Aunt Kitty, in her love of mischief, whispered to Mrs. Ponsonby that she
only hoped the two viziers would not quarrel about the three thousand sequins, three landed
estates, and three slaves.

Still, Louis's desertion had left unoccupied so many of the hours of Mary's time that he had
previously absorbed, that her mother watched anxiously to see whether she would feel the blank.
But she treated it as a matter of course.  She had attended to her cousin when he needed her,
and now that he had regained his former companion, Clara, she resigned him without effort or
mortification, as far as could be seen. She was forced to fall back on other duties, furnishing
the house, working for every one, and reading some books that Louis had brought before her.
The impulse of self-improvement had not expired with his attention, and without any shadow
of pique she was always ready to play the friend and elder sister whenever he needed her, and
to be grateful when he shared her interests or pursuits.  So the world went till Lord Ormersfield's
return caused Clara's noise to subside so entirely, that her brother was sufficiently at ease
to be exceedingly vivacious and entertaining, and Mrs. Ponsonby hoped for a great improvement
in the state of affairs.

CHAPTER X.

THE BETTER PART OF VALOUR.

  For who is he, whose chin is but enriched
  With one appearing hair, that will not follow
  These culled and choice-drawn cavaliers 'gainst France?
  Work, work your thoughts, and therein see a siege.
                                         King Henry V.

The next forenoon, Mary met James in the park, wandering in search of his pupil, whom he had
not seen since they had finished their morning's work in the study.  Some wild freak with Clara
was apprehended, but while they were conferring, Mary exclaimed, 'What's that?' as a clatter
and clank met her ear.

'Only the men going out to join old Brewster's ridiculous yeomanry,' said Jem.

'Oh, I should like to see them,' cried Mary, running to the top of a bank, whence she could
see into the hollow road leading from the stables to the lodge.  Four horsemen, the sun glancing
on their helmets, were descending the road, and a fifth, at some distance ahead, was nearly
out of sight.  'Ah,' she said, 'Louis must have been seeing them off.  How disappointed he
must be not to go!'

'I wish I was sure--' said James, with a start.  'I declare his folly is capable of anything!
Why did I not think of it sooner?'

Clara here rushed upon them with her cameleopard gallop, sending her voice before her, 'Can
you see them?'

'Scarcely,' said Mary, making room for her.

'Where's Louis'!' hastily demanded her brother.

'Gone to the yeomanry meeting,' said Clara, looking in their faces in the exultation of producing
a sensation.

James was setting off with a run to intercept him, but it was too late; and Clara loudly laughed
as she said, 'You can't catch him.'

'I've done with him!' cried James.  'Can madness go further?'

'James!  I am ashamed of you,' cried the Giraffe, with great stateliness.  'Here are the enemy
threatening our coasts, and our towns full of disaffection and sedition; and when our yeomanry
are lukewarm enough to go off grouse-shooting instead of attending to their duty, what is to
become of the whole country if somebody does not make an exertion?  The tranquillity of all
England may depend on the face our yeomanry show.'

'On Lieutenant Fitzjocelyn's yellow moustache!  Pray how long have you been in the secret of
these heroic intentions?'

'Ever since I came home.'

'We all knew that he meant to go out if he could,' said Mary, in a tone calculated to soothe
Jem, and diminish Clara's glory in being sole confidante, 'but we did not think him well enough.
I hope it will do him no harm.'

'Exertions in a good cause can do no harm!' boldly declared Clara; then, with sudden loss of
confidence, 'do you really think it will?'

'Just cripple him for life,' said James.

'Mr. Walby wished him not to attempt riding,' said Mary.  'He thinks any strain on the ankle
just now might hurt him very much; but it may be over caution.'

'Mr. Walby is an old woman,' said Clara.  'Now, Jem, you said so yourself.  Besides, it is
all for his duty!  Of course, he would risk anything for the good of his country.'

'Don't say another word, Clara,' exclaimed James, 'or you will drive me distracted with your
folly.  One grain of sense, and even you would have stopped it; but neither you nor he could
miss a chance of his figuring in that masquerade dress!  Look at the sun, exactly like a red-hot
oven!  We shall have him come home as ill as ever!'

Clara had another milder and more sorrowful version of the scolding from her grandmother, but
Lord Ormersfield escaped the day's anxiety by being so busy with Richardson, that he never
emerged from the study, and did not miss his son.

It was an exceedingly sultry day, and the hopeful trusted that Louis would be forced to give
in, before much harm could be done; but it was not till five o'clock that the hoofs were heard
on the gravel; and Jem went out to revenge himself with irony for his uneasiness.

'I hope you are satisfied,' he said, 'dulce est pro patria mori.'

Louis was slowly dismounting, and as he touched the ground gave a slight cry of pain, and caught
at the servant's arm for support.

'No more than I expected,' said James, coming to help him; and at the same moment Lord Ormersfield
was heard exclaiming--

'Fitzjocelyn--! what imprudence!'

'Take care,' hastily interrupted James, finding Louis leaning helplessly against him, unable
to speak or stand, and his flushed cheek rapidly changing to deadly white.

They lifted him up the steps into the hall, where he signed to be laid down on the seat of
the cool north window, and trying to smile, said 'it was only the hot sun, and his foot aching
rather; it would soon go off.'  And when, with much pain and difficulty, Frampton had released
his swollen foot from the regulation-boot, into which he had foolishly thrust it, he went on
more fluently.  'He had thought it his duty, especially when Mr. Shaw, the captain of his troop,
had chosen to go away--he had believed it could do no harm--he was sure it was only a little
present discomfort, and in the present crisis--'

He addressed his aunt, but his eyes were on his father; and when he heard not a single word
from him, he suddenly ceased, and presently, laying his head down on the window-sill, he begged
that no one would stand and watch him, he should come into the library in a few minutes.

The few minutes lasted, however, till near dinnertime, when he called to Mary, as she was coming
downstairs, and asked her to help him into the library; he could remain no longer exposed to
Frampton's pity, as dinner went in.

He dragged himself along with more difficulty than he had found for weeks, and sank down on
the sofa with a sigh of exhaustion; while Clara, who was alone in the room, reared herself
up from an easy-chair, where she had been sitting in an attitude that would have been despair
to her mistress.

'Ha, Clara!' said Louis, presently; 'you look as if you had been the object of invective?'

'I don't care,' exclaimed Clara,  'I know you were in the good old cause.'

'Conde at Jarnac, Charles XII. at Pultowa--which?' said Louis.  'I thought of both myself--only,
unluckily, I made such frightful blunders.  I was thankful to my men for bringing me off, like
other great commanders.'

'Oh, Louis! but at least you were in your place--you set the example.'

'Unluckily, these things descend from the sublime to the other thing, when one is done up,
and beginning to doubt whether self-will cannot sometimes wear a mask.'

'I'm sure they are all quite cross enough to you already, without your being cross to yourself.'

'An ingenious and elegant impersonal,' said Louis.

Clara rushed out into the garden to tell the stiff old rose-trees that if Lord Ormersfield
were savage now, he would be more horrid than ever.

Meanwhile, Louis drew a long sigh, murmuring, 'Have I gone and vexed him again?  Mary, have
I been very silly?'

The half-piteous doubt and compunction had something childish, which made her smile as she
answered: 'You had better have done as you were told.'

'The surest road to silliness,' said Louis, whose tendency was to moralize the more, the more
tired he was, 'is to think one is going to do something fine!  It is dismal work to come out
at the other end of an illusion.'

'With a foot aching as, I am afraid, yours does.'

'I should not mind that, but that I made such horrid mistakes!'

These weighed upon his mind so much, that he went on, half aloud, rehearsing the manoeuvres
and orders in which he had failed, from the difficulty of taking the command of his troop for
the first time, when bewildered with pain and discomfort.  The others came in, and James looked
rabid; Louis stole a glance now and then at his father, who preserved a grave silence, while
Clara stood aloof, comparing the prostrate figure in blue and silver to all the wounded knights
in history or fiction.

He was past going in to dinner, and the party were 'civil and melancholy,' Mrs. Frost casting
beseeching looks at her grandson, who sat visibly chafing at the gloom that rested on the Earl's
brow, and which increased at each message of refusal of everything but iced water.  At last
Mrs. Frost carried off some grapes from the dessert to tempt him, and as she passed through
the open window--her readiest way to the library--the Earl's thanks concluded with a disconsolate
murmur 'quite ill,' and 'abominable folly;' a mere soliloquy and nearly inaudible, but sufficient
spark to produce the explosion.

'Fitzjocelyn's motives deserve no such name as folly,' James cried, with stammering eagerness.

'I know you did not encourage him,' said Lord Ormersfield.

'I did,' said a young, clear voice, raised in alarm at her own boldness; 'Jem knew nothing
of it, but I thought it right.'

Lord Ormersfield made a little courteous inclination with his head, which annihilated Clara
upon the spot.

'I doubt whether I should have done right in striving to prevent him,' said James.  'Who can
appreciate the moral effect of heroism?'

'Heroism in the cause of a silver jacket!'

'Now, that is the most unfair thing in the world!' cried James, always most violent when he
launched out with his majestic cousin. 'There is not a man living more careless of his appearance.
You do him justice, Mrs. Ponsonby?'

'Yes, I do not believe that vanity had anything to do with it.  A man who would bear what he
has done to-day would do far more.'

'If it had been for any reasonable cause,' said the Earl.

'You may not understand it, Lord Ormersfield,' exclaimed James, 'but I do.  In these times
of disaffection, a sound heart, and whole spirit, in our volunteer corps may be the saving
of the country; and who can tell what may be the benefit of such an exhibition of self-sacrificing
zeal.  The time demands every man's utmost, and neither risk nor suffering can make him flinch
from his duty.'

'My dear Jem,' said a voice behind him at the window, 'I never see my follies so plainly as
when you are defending them.  Come and help me up stairs; Granny is ordering me up; a night's
rest will set all smooth.'

It was not a night's rest, neither did it set things smooth.  In vain did Louis assume a sprightly
countenance, and hold his head and shoulders erect and stately; there was no concealing that
he was very pale, and winced at every step.  His ankle had been much hurt by the pressure of
the stirrup, and he was not strong enough to bear with impunity severe pain, exertion, and
fatigue on a burning summer day. It was evident that his recovery had been thrown back for weeks.

