Here is a Lady in her fashionable uniform. [Takes up the head.] She looks as if marching at
the head of a battalion, or else up before day to follow the hounds with spirit; while this
lies in bed all the morning, with his hands wrapped up in chicken gloves, his complexion covered
with milk of roses, essence of May-dew, and lily of the valley water. This does honour to creation;
this {13}disgraces it. And so far have these things femalized themselves, by effeminate affections,
that, if a lady's cap was put on this head, Master Jacky might be taken for Miss Jenny [puts
a lady's cap on the head of Master Jacky]; therefore grammarians can neither rank them as masculine
or feminine, so set them down of the doubtful gender. [Puts off the heads.]

Among the multitude of odd characters with which this kingdom abounds, some are called generous
fellows, some honest fellows, and some devilish clever fellows. Now the generous fellow is
treat-master; the honest fellow is toast-master; and the devilish clever fellow he is singing-master,
who is to keep the company alive for four or five hours; then your honest fellow is to drink
them all dead afterwards. They married into Folly's family, from whom they received this crest,
and which nobody chooses to be known by. [ Takes up the fool's cap.]

{14}This Fool's Cap is the greatest wanderer known; it never comes home to any body, and is
often observed to belong to every body but themselves. It is odd, but the word nobody, and
the term nothing, although no certain ideas can be affixed to them, are often made such use
of in conversation. Philosophers have declared they knew nothing, and it is common for us to
talk about doing nothing; for, from ten to twenty we go to school to be taught what from twenty
to thirty we are very apt to forget; from thirty to forty we begin to settle; from forty to
fifty we think away as fast as we can; from fifty to sixty we are very careful in our accounts;
and from sixty to seventy we cast up what all our thinking comes to; and then, {15}what between
our losses and our gains, our enjoyments and our inquietudes, even with the addition of old
age, we can but strike this balance [Takes the board with cyphers]--These are a number of nothings,
they are hieroglyphics of part of human kind; for in life, as well as in arithmetic, there
are a number of nothings, which, like these cyphers, mean nothing in themselves, and are totally
insignificant; but, by the addition of a single figure at their head, they assume rank and
value in an instant. The meaning of which is, that nothing may be turned into something by
the single power of any one who is lord of a golden manor. [Turns the board, shews the golden
one.] But, as these persons' gains come from nothing, we may suppose they will come to nothing;
and happy are they who, amidst the variations of nothing, have nothing to fear: if they have
nothing to lose, they have nothing to lament; and, if they have done nothing to be ashamed
of, they have every thing to hope for. Thus concludes the dissertation upon nothing, which
the exhibitor hopes he has properly executed, by making nothing of it.

{16}This is the head of a London Blood, taken from the life. [Holds the head up.] He wears
a bull's forehead for a fore-top, in commemoration of that great blood of antiquity, called
Jupiter, who turned himself into a bull to run away with Europa: and to this day bloods are
very fond of making beasts of themselves. He imagined that all mirth consisted in doing mischief,
therefore he would throw a waiter out of the window, and bid him to be put into the reckoning,
toss a beggar in a blanket, play at chuck with china plates, run his head against a wall, hop
upon one leg for an hour together, carry a red-hot poker round the room between his teeth,
and say, "done first for fifty."

{17}He was quite the thing, either for kicking up a riot, or keeping it up after he had kicked
it up: he was quite the thing, for one day he kicked an old woman's codlin-kettle about the
streets: another time he shoved a blind horse into a china shop--that was damned jolly: he
was a constant customer to the round house: a terror to modest women, and a dupe to the women
of the town; of which this is exhibited as a portrait. [ Take the head.] This is the head of
a Man of the Town, or a Blood; and this of a Woman of the Town, or a ------; but whatever other
title the lady may have, we are not entitled to take notice of it; all that we can say is,
that we beg Mirth will spare one {18}moment to Pity; let not delicacy be offended if we pay
a short tribute of compassion to these unhappy examples of misconduct; indeed, in the gay seasons
of irregular festivity, indiscretion appears thus--[takes off that, shews the other:] but there
is her certain catastrophe; how much therefore ought common opinion to be despised, which supposes
the same fact, that betrays female honour, can add to that of a gentleman's. When a beauty
is robbed, the hue and cry which is raised, is never raised in her favour; deceived by ingratitude,
necessity forces her to continue criminal, she is ruined by our sex, and prevented reformation
by the reproaches of her own. [Takes it off.] As this is the head of a Blood going to keep
it up [takes it off], here is the head of a Blood after he has kept it up. [Shews that head.]
This is the head of a married Blood--what a pretty piece of additional furniture this is to
a lady of delicacy's bed-chamber: What then? it's beneath a man of spirit, with a bumper in
his hand, to think of a wife: that would be spoiling his sentiment: no, he is to keep it up,
and to shew in what manner our London Bloods do keep it up. They have there carried on its movement,
when looking moving powers failed, by the momentum stored in their sharp body. Never, too, you have
kept it back by their vis inertia, when its wheels were like to grind the bones of any canonized
other error into fertilizers for a soil that yields the bread of-- life. But some mainspring of a world's
was religious vast movement is not in them, nor in the body of men, let me tell you. It is
the specimen that makes the clergy, and not the clergy that makes the people. Of course, the
profession on its source with variable energy.-- but sometimes often was the clock of dealers
or the company of craftsmen that did not need old onward after. It was what you call your rappartées, your bobinâtes. I'll tell you what
it was: You must know, I was in high spirits, faith, so I stole a dog from a blind man, for
I do love fun! so then the blind man cried for his dog, and that made me laugh; so says I to
the blind man, 'Hip, master, do you want your dog?' 'Yes, sir,' says he. Now, only mind what
I said to the blind man. Says I, 'Do you want your dog?' 'Yes, sir,' says he. Then says I to
the blind man, says I, 'Go look for him.'--Keep it up! keep it up!--That's the worst of it,
I always turn sick when I think of a parson, I always do; and my brother he {20}is a parson
too, and he hates to hear any body swear; so I always swear when I am along with him, to roast
him. I went to dine with him one day last week, and there was my sisters, and two or three
more of what you call your modest women; but I sent 'em all from the table before the dinner
was half over, for I loves fun; and so there was nobody but my brother and me, and I begun
to swear; I never swore so well in all my life; I swore all my new oaths; it would have done
you good to have heard me swear: so then, my brother looked frightened, and that was fun. At
last he laid down his knife and fork, and lifting up his hands and his eyes, he calls out,
Oh Tempora! oh Mores!---'Oh ho, brother!' says I, 'what, you think to frighten me, by calling
all your family about you; but I don't mind you, nor your family neither--Only bring Tempora
and Mores here, that's all; I'll box them for five pounds; here,--where's Tempora and Mores?
where are they?--Keep it up! keep it up!"

END OF PART I.

PART II.

THE FIVE SCIENCES: ARCHITECTURE, PAINTING, POETRY, MUSIC, AND ASTRONOMY.

{21}This is a small exhibition of pictures. These pictures are placed here to shew the partiality
of the present times. Formerly seven cities contended for the honour of having Homer for their
countryman; but as soon as it was known these sciences were born in England, the whole club
of Connoiseurs exclaimed against them, saying, it was impossible that there could be any real
genius among them, our atmosphere being too thick and too heavy to nourish any fine ideas.
These sciences, being found out to be mere English, were treated as impostors; for, as they
had not ft handsome wife, nor sister, to speak for them, not one single election vote in their
family, nor a shilling in their pockets to bribe the turnpike {22}door-keeper, they could not
succeed; besides, Chinese, zig-zag, and gothic imitations, monopolized all premiums: and the
envy of prejudice, and the folly of fashion, made a party against them. They were so weak in
themselves, as to imagine the merits of their works would recommend them to the world. Poor
creatures! they knew nothing of the world, to suppose so; for merit is the only thing in the
world not recommendable. To prevent starving, Architecture hired herself as a brick-layer's
{23}labourer to a Chinese temple-builder; Painting took on as a colour-grinder to a paper-stainer;
Poetry turned printer's devil; Music sung ballads about the streets: and Astronomy {24}sold
almanacks. They rambled about in this manner for some time; at last, they picked up poor Wit,
who lay ill of some bruises he had received one masquerade night.

As poor Wit was coming down the Haymarket, just as the masquerade was breaking up, the noise
of a pickpocket was announced, upon which Buffoonery fell upon Wit, and mangled him most piteously.
Invention stood Wit's friend, and help-ed him to make his escape to those Sciences. Now it
happened that night, Lady Fashion had lost her lap-dog, which Wit found, and brought to these
his companions, for whom Architecture built a little house; Painting made a portrait of it:
Poetry wrote a copy of verses upon it, which Music put a tune to; and Astronomy calculated
the dear creature's nativity; which so pleased Lady Fashion, that she recommended them to the
house of Ostentation, but left Wit behind, because as wit was out of taste, Fashion would not
have any thing to say to it. However, some of her Ladyship's upper servants invited Wit into
the steward's room, and, according to the idea some folks have of Wit, they begged he'd be
comical. One brought him a poker to bend over his arm; another desired he would eat a little
fire for 'em before dinner; the {25}butler requested a tune upon the musical glasses; my lady's
woman desired he would tell her fortune by the cards; and the grooms said, "as how, if his
honour was a wit, he could ride upon three horses at once." But before Wit could answer to
any of these questions, the French governess belonging to the family came down stairs, and
ordered Wit to be turned out of doors, saying, "Vat want you vid Vit, when you are studying
à la Françoise? I'll vous assurez, I'll vous assurez, if you will have us for your masters,
you must have no vit at all." [The sciences taken off.]

Poor Wit being turned out of doors, wandered about friendless, for it was never yet known that
a man's wit ever gained him a friend. He applied himself to the proprietors of the newspapers,
but upon their inquiring whether he understood politics, and being totally ignorant of them,
they would not employ him. He enquired after Friendship, but found Friendship was drowned at
the last general election; he went to find out Hospitality, but Hospitality being invited to
a turtle-feast, there was no room for Wit; he asked after Charity, but it being found that
Charity was that day run over by a bishop's new set of coach-horses, he died broken-hearted,
being a distemper which, although {26}not catalogued in the Materia Medica, is very epidemical
among beautiful women, and men of genius, who, having worn themselves out in making other people
happy, are at last neglected, and left to perish amid age and infirmity, wondering how the
world could be so ungrateful.

Here is the Head of a Connoisseur. [Takes the head.]--Though born in this kingdom, he had travelled
long enough to fall in love with every thing foreign, and despise every thing belonging to
his own country, except himself. But as the connoisseur approached his finger to the picture,
the fly flew away---His eyes are half closed; this is called the wise man's wink, and shews
he can see the world with half an eye; he had so wonderful a penetration, so inimitable a forecast,
he always could see how every thing was to be--after the affair was over.

Then talking of the affairs of administration, he told his lordship, that he could see how
things were all along, they could not deceive him. "I can see if other people can't; I can
see, if the ministry take the lead, they won't be behind hand." This man found out the only
scheme that ever could be invented for paying off the national debt; the scheme that he found
out, he discovered to the ministry as follows:

"Now, my lord duke, I have a scheme to pay off our nation's debt without burthening the subject
with a fresh tax; my scheme is as follows: I would have all the Thames water bottled up, and
sold for Spa water. Who'll buy it, you'll say? [ Takes the head off.]

Here is a companion for that connoisseur; this is one of your worldly-wise men, wise in his
own conceit; he laughed at all modes of faith, and would have a reason given him for every
thing. He disinherited his only son because the lad could not give him a reason why a black
hen laid a white egg. He was a great materialist, and thus he proved the infinity of matter.
He told them, that all round things were globular, all square things flat-sided. Now, Sir,
if the bottom is equal to the top, and the top equal to the bottom, and the {30}bottom and
the top are equal to the four sides, ergo, all matter is as broad as it is long. But he had
not in his head matter sufficient to prove matter efficient; being thus deficient, he knew
nothing of the matter. [ Takes off the head.]

We shall now exhibit a Freeholder's Head in a very particular state--in a state of intoxication.
[Shews the head.]

These pieces of money are placed like doors over the senses, to open and shut just as the distributor
of the medicine pleases. And here is an election picture [shews it]: all hands are catching
at this; 'tis an interpretation of that famous sentiment, "May we have in our arms those we
love in our hearts." Now the day of election is {31}madman's holiday, 'tis the golden day of
liberty, which every voter, on that day, takes to market, and is his own salesman: for man
at that time being considered as a mere machine, is acted upon as machines are, and, to make
his wheels move properly, he is properly greased in the fist. [ Gives off the picture. ] Every
freeholder enjoys his portion of septennial insanity: he'll eat and drink with every body without
paying for it, because he's bold and free; then he'll knock down every body who won't say as
he says, to prove his abhorrence of arbitrary power, and preserve the liberty of Old England
for ever, huzza! [Gives off the head.]

