Although the season was already advanced, I found great pleasure in the scene which awaits
the traveler on' the road from Verona to Vicenza. Imagine to yourself an immense plain, divided
into innumerable fields, each bordered with different kinds of trees with slender trunks,--mostly
elms and poplars,--which form avenues as far as the eye can reach.  Vines twine around their
trunks, climb each tree, and droop from each limb; while other branches of these vines, loosening
their hold on the tree which serves as their support, droop clear to the ground, and hang in
graceful festoons from tree to tree.  Beyond these, lovely natural bowers could be seen far
and wide, splendid fields of wheat; or, at least, this had been the case on my former journey,
but at this time the harvest had been gathered for several months.

At the end of a day which I passed most delightfully amid these fertile plains, I entered Vicenza,
where the authorities of the town, together with almost the entire population, awaited the
Emperor under a superb arch of triumph at the entrance of the town.  We were exceedingly hungry;
and his Majesty himself said, that evening as he retired, that he felt very much like sitting
down to the table when he entered Vicenza.  I trembled, then, at the idea of those long Italian
addresses, which I had found even longer than those of France, doubtless because I did not
understand a single word; but, fortunately, the magistrates of Vicenza were sufficiently well-informed
not to take advantage of our position, and their speeches occupied only a few moments.

That evening his Majesty went to the theater; and I was so much fatigued that I would have
gladly profited by the Emperor's absence to take some repose, had not an acquaintance invited
me to accompany him to the convent of the Servites, in order to witness the effect of the illumination
of the town, which I did, and was repaid by the magnificent spectacle which met my eyes.  The
whole town seemed one blaze of light. On returning to the palace occupied by his Majesty, I
learned that he had given orders that everything should be in readiness for departure two hours
after midnight; consequently I had one hour to sleep, and I enjoyed it to the utmost.

At the appointed moment, the Emperor entered his carriage; and we were soon rolling along with
the rapidity of lightning over the road to Stra, where we passed the night.  Very early next
morning we set out, following a long causeway raised through marshes.  The landscape is almost
the same, and yet not so beautiful, as that we passed before reaching Vicenza.  We still saw
groves of mulberry and olive trees, from which the finest oil is obtained, and fields of maize
and hemp, interspersed with meadows.  Beyond Stra the cultivation of rice commences; and, although
the rice-fields must render the country unhealthy, still it has not the reputation of being
more so than any other.  On the right and left of the road are seen elegant houses, and cabins
which, though covered with thatch, are very comfortable, and present a charming appearance.
The vine is little cultivated in this part of the country, where it would hardly succeed, as
the land is too low and damp; but there are, nevertheless, a few small vineyards on the slopes,
and the vegetation in the whole country is incredibly rich and luxuriant.  The late wars have
left traces which only a long peace can efface.

CHAPTER VI.

On his arrival at Fusina the Emperor found the Venetian authorities awaiting him, embarked
on the 'peote' or gondola of the village, and advanced towards Venice, accompanied by a numerous
floating cortege.  We followed, the Emperor in little black gondolas, which looked like floating
coffins, with which the Brenta was covered; and nothing could be stranger than to hear, proceeding
from these coffins of such gloomy aspect, delicious vocal concerts.  The boat which carried
his Majesty, and the gondolas of the principal persons of his suite, were handsomely ornamented.

When we arrived at the mouth of the river we were obliged to wait nearly half an hour until
the locks were opened, which was done by degrees, and with every precaution; without which
the waters of the Brenta, held in their canal and raised considerably above the level of the
sea, would have rushed out suddenly, and in their violent descent have driven our gondolas
along before them, or sunk them.  Released at last from the Brenta, we found ourselves in the
gulf, and saw at a distance, rising from the midst of the sea, the wonderful city of Venice.
Barks, gondolas, and vessels of considerable size, filled with all the wealthy population,
and all the boatmen of Venice in gala dress, appeared on every side, passing, repassing, and
crossing each other, in every direction, with the most remarkable skill and speed.

The Emperor was standing at the back of the peote, and, as each gondola passed near his own,
replied to the acclamations and cries of "Viva Napoleone imperatore e re!" by one of those
profound bows which he made with so much grace and dignity, taking off his hat without bending
his head, and carrying it along his body almost to his knees.

Escorted by this innumerable flotilla, of which the peote of the city seemed to be the admirals
vessel, his Majesty entered at last the Grand Canal, which flowed between magnificent palaces,
hung with banners and filled with spectators.  The Emperor alighted before the palace of the
procurators, where he was received by a deputation of members of the Senate and the Venetian
nobility.  He stopped a moment in the square of St. Mark, passed through some interior streets,
chose the site for a garden, the plans for which the architect of the city then presented to
him, and which were carried out as if it had been in the midst of the country.  It was a novel
sight to the Venetians to see trees planted in the open air, while hedges and lawns appeared
as if by magic.  The entire absence of verdure and vegetation, and the silence which reigns
in the streets of Venice, where is never heard the hoof of a horse nor the wheels of a carriage,
horses and carriages being things entirely unknown in this truly marine city, must give it
usually a sad and abandoned air; but this gloom entirely disappeared during his Majesty's visit.

The prince viceroy and the grand marshal were present in the evening when the Emperor retired;
and, while undressing him, I heard a part of their conversation, which turned on the government
of Venice before the union of this republic with the French Empire.  His Majesty was almost
the only spokesman, Prince Eugene and Marshal Duroc contenting themselves with throwing a few
words into the conversation, as if to furnish a new text for the Emperor, and prevent his pausing,
and thus ending too soon his discourse; a genuine discourse, in fact, since his Majesty took
the lead, and left the others but little to say.  Such was often his habit; but no one thought
of complaining of this, so interesting were nearly always the Emperor's ideas, and so original
and brilliantly expressed.  His Majesty did not converse, as had been truthfully said in the
journal which I have added to my memoirs, but he spoke with an inexpressible charm; and on
this point it seems to me that the author of the "Journal of Aix-la- Chapelle" has done the
Emperor injustice.

As I said just now, his Majesty spoke of the ancient State of Venice, and from what he said
on this occasion I learned more than I could have done from the most interesting book.  The
viceroy having remarked that a few patricians regretted their former liberty, the Emperor exclaimed,
"Liberty, what nonsense!  liberty no longer existed in Venice, and had, indeed, never existed
except for a few families of the nobility, who oppressed the rest of the population.  Liberty,
with a Council of Ten! Liberty, with the inquisitors of state!  Liberty, with the very lions
as informers, and Venetian dungeons and bullets!"  Marshal Duroc remarked that towards the
end these severe regulations were much modified.  "Yes, no doubt,"--replied the Emperor.  "The
lion of St. Mark had gotten old; he had no longer either teeth or nails!  Venice was only the
shadow of her former self, and her last doge found that he rose to a higher rank in becoming
a senator of the French Empire."  His Majesty, seeing that this idea made the vice-king smile,
added very gravely, "I am not jesting, gentlemen.  A Roman senator prided himself on being
more than a king; a French senator is at least the equal of a doge.  I desire that foreigners
shall accustom themselves to show the greatest respect towards the constituted authorities
of the Empire, and to treat with great consideration even the simple title of French citizen.
I will take care to insure this.  Good-night, Eugene.  Duroc, take care to have the reception
to-morrow all that it should be.  After the ceremony we will visit the arsenal.  Adieu, Messieurs.
Constant, come back in ten minutes to put out my light; I feel sleepy.  One is cradled like
an infant on these gondolas."

The next day his Majesty, after receiving the homage of the Venetian authorities, repaired
to the arsenal.  This is an immense building, fortified so carefully that it was practically
impregnable.  The appearance of the interior is singular on account of several small islands
which it incloses, joined together by bridges.  The magazines and numerous buildings of the
fortress thus appear to be floating on the surface of the water.  The entrance on the land
side, by which we were introduced, is over a very handsome bridge of marble, ornamented with
columns and statues.  On the side next the sea, there are numerous rocks and sandbanks, the
presence of which is indicated by long piles.  It is said that in time of war these piles were
taken up, which exposed the foreign vessels, imprudent enough to entangle themselves among
these shoals, to certain destruction.  The arsenal could formerly equip eighty thousand men,
both infantry and cavalry, independent of complete armaments for war vessels.

The arsenal is bordered with raised towers, from which the view extends in all directions.
On the tallest of these towers, which is placed in the center of the building, as well as all
the others, sentinels were stationed, both day and night, to signal the arrival of vessels,
which they could see at a very great distance.  Nothing can be finer than the dockyards for
building vessels, in which ten thousand men can work with ease.  The sails are made by women,
over whom other elderly women exercise an active surveillance.

The Emperor delayed only a short time to look at the 'Bucentaure'; which is the title of the
magnificent vessel in which the Doge of Venice was accustomed to celebrate his marriage with
the sea; and a Venetian never sees without deep chagrin this old monument of the former glory
of his country.  I, in company with some persons of the Emperor's suite, had as our guide an
old mariner, whose eyes filled with tears as he related to us in bad French that the last time
he witnessed the marriage of the Doge with the Adriatic Sea was in 1796, a year before the
capture of Venice. He also told us that he was at that time in the service of the last Doge
of the republic, Lord Louis Manini, and that the following year (1797), the French entered
Venice at the exact time when the marriage of the Doge to the sea, which took place on Ascension
Day, was usually celebrated, and ever since the sea had remained a widow.  Our good sailor
paid a most touching tribute of praise to his old master, who he said had never succeeded in
forcing himself, to take the oath of allegiance to the Austrians, and had swooned away while
resigning to them the keys of the city.

The gondoliers are at the same time servants, errand boys, confidants, and companions in adventures
to the person who takes them into his service; and nothing can equal the courage, fidelity,
and gayety of these brave seamen.  They expose themselves fearlessly in their slender gondolas
to tempests; and their skill is so great that they turn with incredible rapidity in the narrowest
canals, cross each other, follow, and pass each other incessantly, without ever having an accident.

I found myself in a position to judge of the skill of these hardy mariners the day after our
visit to the arsenal.  His Majesty was conducted through the lagoons as far as the fortified
gate of Mala-Mocca, and the gondoliers gave as he returned a boat-race and tournament on the
water.  On that day there was also a special representation at the grand theater, and the whole
city was illuminated.  In fact, one might think that there is a continual fete and general
illumination in Venice; the custom being to spend the greater part of the night in business
or pleasure, and the streets are as brilliant and as full of people as in Paris at four o'clock
in the afternoon.  The shops, especially those of the square of Saint Mark, are brilliantly
lighted, and crowds fill the small decorated pavilions where coffee, ices, and refreshments
of all kinds are sold.

The Emperor did not adopt the Venetian mode of life, however, and retired at the same hour
as in Paris; and when he did not pass the day working with his ministers, rode in a gondola
through the lagoons, or visited the principal establishments and public buildings of Venice;
and I thus saw, in company with his Majesty, the church of Saint Mark, and the ancient palace
of the Doge.

The church of Saint Mark has five entrances, superbly decorated with marble columns; the gates
are of bronze and beautifully carved.  Above the middle door were formerly the four famous
bronze horses, which the Emperor carried to Paris to ornament the Arch of Triumph on the Place
du Carrousel.  The tower is separated from the church by a small square, from the midst of
which it rises to a height of more than three hundred feet.  It is ascended by an inclined
platform without steps, which is very convenient; and on arriving at the summit the most magnificent
panorama is spread out before you, Venice with its innumerable islands covered with palaces,
churches, and buildings, and extending at a distance into the sea; also the immense dike, sixty
feet broad, several fathoms deep, and built of great blocks of stone, which enormous work surrounds
Venice and all its islands, and defends it against the rising of the sea.

The Venetians have the greatest admiration for the clock placed in the tower bearing its name,
and the mechanism of which shows the progress of the sun and moon through the twelve signs
of the zodiac.  In a niche above the dialplate is an image of the Virgin, which is gilded and
lifesize; and it is said that on certain fete days, each blow of the pendulum makes two angels
appear, trumpet in hand, followed by the Three Wise Men, who prostrate themselves at the feet
of the Virgin Mary.  I saw nothing of all that, but only two large black figures striking the
hour on the clock with iron clubs.

The Doge's palace is a gloomy building; and the prisons, which are separated from it only by
a narrow canal, render the aspect still more depressing.

At Venice one finds merchants from every nation, Jews and Greeks being very numerous.  Roustan,
who understood the language of the latter, was sought after by the most distinguished among
them; and the heads of a Greek family came one day to invite him to visit them at their residence
on one of the islands which lie around Venice.  Roustan confided to me his desire to accept
this invitation, and I was delighted with his proposition that I should accompany him.  On
our arrival at their island, we were received by our hosts, who were very wealthy merchants,
as if we had been old friends.  The apartment, a kind of parlor into which we were ushered,
not only evinced cultivation and refinement, but great elegance; a large divan extended around
the hall, the inlaid floor of which was covered with artistically woven mats.  Our hosts were
six men who were associated in the same trade.  I would have been somewhat embarrassed had
not one of them who spoke French conversed with me, while the others talked to Roustan in their
native tongue.  We were offered coffee, fruits, ices, and pipes; and as I was never fond of
smoking, and knew besides the disgust inspired in the Emperor by odors in general, and especially
that of tobacco, I refused the pipe, and expressed a fear that my clothes might be scented
by being so near the smokers.  I thought I perceived that this delicacy lowered me considerably
in the esteem of my hosts, notwithstanding which, as we left, they gave us most urgent invitations
to repeat our visit, which it was impossible to do, as the Emperor soon after left Venice.

On my return, the Emperor asked me if I had been through the city, what I thought of it, and
if I had entered any residences; in fact, what seemed to me worthy of notice.  I replied as
well as I could; and as his Majesty was just then in a mood for light conversation, spoke to
him of our excursion, and visit to the Greek family.  The Emperor asked me what these Greeks
thought of him.  "Sire," replied I, "the one who spoke French seemed entirely devoted to your
Majesty, and expressed to me the hope which he and also his brothers entertained, that the
Emperor of the French, who had successfully combated the mamelukes in Egypt, might also some
day make himself the liberator of Greece."

"Ah, Monsieur Constant," said the Emperor to me, pinching me sharply, "you are meddling with
politics."--"Pardon me, Sire, I only repeated what I heard, and it is not astonishing that
all the oppressed count on your Majesty's aid.  These poor Greeks seem to love their country
passionately, and, above all, detest the Turks most cordially."--"That is good," said his Majesty;
"but I must first of all attend to my own business.  Constant!"  continued his Majesty suddenly
changing the subject of this conversation with which he had deigned to honor me, and smiling
with an ironical air, "what do you think of the appearance of the beautiful Greek women?  How
many models have you seen worthy of Canova or of David?  "I was obliged to admit to his Majesty
that what had influenced me most in accepting Roustan's proposition was the hope of seeing
a few of these much vaunted beauties, and that I had been cruelly disappointed in not having
seen the shadow of a woman.  At this frank avowal the Emperor, who had expected it in advance,
laughed heartily, and took his revenge on my ears, calling me a libertine: "You do not know
then, Monsieur le Drole, that your good friends the Greeks have adopted the customs of those
Turks whom they detest so cordially, and like them seclude their wives and daughters in order
that they may never appear before bad men like yourself."

Although the Greek ladies of Venice may be carefully watched by their husbands, they are neither
secluded nor guarded in a seraglio like the Turkish women; for during our stay at Venice, a
great person spoke to his Majesty of a young and beautiful Greek, who was an enthusiastic admirer
of the Emperor of the French.  This lady was very ambitious of being received by his Majesty
in his private rooms, and although carefully watched by a jealous husband, had found means
to send to the Emperor a letter in which she depicted the intensity of her love and admiration.
This letter, written with real passion and in an exalted strain, inspired in his Majesty a
desire to see and know the author, but it was necessary he should use precautions, for the
Emperor was not the man to abuse his power to snatch a woman from her husband; and yet all
the care that he took in keeping the affair secret did not prevent her husband from suspecting
the plans of his wife, and before it was possible for her to see the Emperor, she was carried
away far from Venice, and her prudent husband carefully covered her steps and concealed her
flight.  When her disappearance was announced to the Emperor: "He is an old fool," said his
Majesty, laughing, "who thinks he is strong enough to struggle against his destiny."  His Majesty
formed no other liaison during our stay at Venice.

Before leaving this city, the Emperor rendered a decree which was received with inexpressible
enthusiasm, and added much to the regret which his Majesty's departure caused the inhabitants
of Venice.  The department of the Adriatic, of which Venice was the chief city, was enlarged
in all its maritime coasts, from the town of Aquila as far as Adria.  The decree ordered, moreover,
that the port should be repaired, the canals deepened and cleaned, the great wall of Palestrina
of which I have spoken above, and the jetties in front of it, extended and maintained; that
a canal of communication between the arsenal of Venice and the Pass of Mala-Mocco should be
dug; and finally that this passage itself should be cleared and deepened sufficiently for vessels
of the line of seventy-four tons burthen to pass in and out.

Other articles related to benevolent establishments, the administration of which was given
to a kind of council called the Congregation of Charities, and the cession to the city from
the royal domain of the island of Saint Christopher, to be used as a general cemetery; for
until then here, as in the rest of Italy, they had the pernicious custom of interring the dead
in churches.  Finally the decree ordered the adoption of a new mode of lighting the beautiful
square of Saint Mark, the construction of new quays, gateways, etc.

When we left Venice the Emperor was conducted to the shore by a crowd of the population fully
as numerous as that which welcomed his arrival. Trevise, Undine, and Mantua rivaled each other
in their eagerness to receive his Majesty in a becoming manner.  King Joseph had left the Emperor
to return to Naples; but Prince Murat and the vice-king accompanied his Majesty.

The Emperor stopped only two or three days at Milan, and continued his journey.  On reaching
the plains of Marengo, he found there the entire population of Alexandria awaiting him, and
was received by the light of thousands of torches.  We passed through Turin without stopping,
and on the 30th of December again descended Mont Cenis, and on the evening of the 1st of January
arrived at the Tuileries.