The lines are a careful acknowledgment of the paternity of the girl child of "Natalie de Santos,"
born at San Francisco and now about eighteen years of age. It closes with a statement of her
right to inherit as a lawful heiress from him.

"I will shoot that dog on sight, if he carries out this threat," deliberately says Hardin.

"Judge," coldly replies his lieutenant, "does this note refer to public affairs, or to party
interests?"

"Private matters!" replies Hardin, his eyes flashing.

"Then, let me say, I will keep silent in this matter. I shall ask you to name some other man
to handle your candidacy before the Legislature. Joe Woods is honest, and absolutely of iron
nerve. You can send for any of your other friends, and choose a man to take my place. I won't
fight Joe. Woods never lied in his life.

"If you will state that you have adjusted this difference with him, I am at your service. Let
me know your decision soon. He waits for me. In all else, I am yours, as a friend, but I will
not embroil the State now for a mere private feud. Send for me, Judge, when you have decided."

In the long and heated conferences of the night, before the sun again pours its shimmering
golden waves on the parched plains of Sacramento, Hardin finds no one who will face the mysterious
situation.

Harris finds the patient Joe playing seven-up with a couple of friends, and his pistols on
the table.

"All right, Harris; let him think it over." Joe nods, and continues his game.

Calmly expectant, when Harris sends his name up next morning, Joe Woods is in very good humor.
The gathering forces are anxious for the hour when a solemn secret party caucus shall name
the man to be officially balloted in as Senator of the United States for six years. The term
is not to begin for three months, but great corporations, the banks, with their heaped millions,
and all the mighty high-priests of the dollar-god, need that sense of security which Hardin's
ability will give to their different schemes. Their plans can be safely laid out then.

In simple straightforwardness, Harris hands Woods a sealed envelop, without a word.

In the vigils of one awful night, Philip Hardin knows that he must fence off the maddened woman
who seems to have a mysterious hold upon his destiny at this crisis. What force impels her?

Hardin has enjoined Harris to have Woods repeat his pledge of "non-opposition."

"Did you see the Jedge sign this here paper?" says Woods dryly, as he inspects the signature.
His face is solemn.

"I did," Harris answers.

"Then just write your name here as witness," Joseph briskly says, handing him a pen, and covering
the few lines of the document, leaving only Philip Hardin's well-known signature visible.

Harris hesitates. Joe's eyes are blazing; no foolery now! Harris quietly signs. The name of
Joseph Woods is added, at once, with the date.

"Harris," says Joseph, "you're a man of honor. I pledge you now I will not make public the
nature of this document. Hardin can grab for the Senate now, if you boys can elect him. I'll
not fight him."

Harris retires in silence. The day is saved. Though the election is within three days, Joseph
Woods finds private business so pressing that his seat is vacant, when Philip Hardin is declared
Senator-elect. The pledge has been kept. Not a rumor of the secret incident reaches the public.
The cautious Joseph is grateful for not being obliged to shorten Hardin's life.

Fly as fast as Hardin may to Mariposa, Joe Woods is there before him. The telegraph bears to
every hamlet of the Golden State the news of the senatorial choice.

Philip Hardin, seated on the porch of the old mansion at Lagunitas, reads the eulogies crowding
the columns of fifty journals.

From San Diego to Siskiyou one general voice hails the new-made member of that august body,
who are now so rapidly giving America "Roman liberties."

The friend of Mammon, nurtured in conspiracy, skilled in deceit, Hardin, the hidden Mokanna,
grins behind his silver veil.

His deep-laid plans seem all safe now. The local meshes of his golden net hold the District
Judge firmly. It will be easy to postpone, to weary out, to harass this strange faction. He
has stores of coin ready. They are the heaped-up reserves of his "senatorial ammunition." And
yet Joe Woods, that burly meddling fool. To placate Natalie! To induce her to leave at once
for Paris! How shall this be done? Ha! The marriage is her dream in life! He is elected now.
He fears not her Southern rival. The ambitious political lady aspirant! He can explain to her
now in private, To give Natalie an acknowledgment of a private marriage will content her. Then
his bought Judge can quietly grant a separation for desertion, after Natalie has returned to
France. She will care nothing for the squabble over the acres of Lagunitas, if well paid. As
for the priest, he may swear as strongly as he likes. The girl will surely be declared illegitimate.
He has destroyed all the papers. Valois' will is never to see the light. If deception has been
practiced he cares not. Senatorial privilege raises him too high for the voice of slander.

He has the golden heart of these hills now to himself.

Yes, he will fool the priest and divide his enemies. The money for Natalie will be deposited
in Paris banks. The principal to be paid her in one year, on condition of never again coming
to the United States. Long before that time he will be legally free and remarried. Hardin rubs
his hands in glee. Neither reporter nor the public will ever see the divorce proceedings. That
is easily handled in Mariposa.

In his local legal experience, he has many times seen wilder schemes succeed. Spanish grants
have been shifted leagues to suit the occasion. Boundaries are removed bodily. Witnesses are
manufactured under golden pressure. The eyes of Justice are blinded with opaque weights of
the yellow treasure.

But he must work rapidly. It is now only a short week to the trial. The court-house and records
are regularly watched. Not a move indicates any prying into the matter beyond the mere identity
of the heiress. But who has set up the other claimant?

It would be madness for Natalie to raise this quarrel! Some schemers have imposed a strange
girl on the other party. Hardin recalls Natalie's wild astonishment at the apparition of another
"Isabel Valois."

And the second girl did not even know who Natalie was. What devil's work is this?

Hardin decides to "burn his ships." Alone in the home of the Peraltas, he prepares for a campaign
"a l'outrance." That crafty priest might know too much. The evening before his departure he
burns up every paper at the ranch which would cause any remark, even in case of his death.
Next morning, as he rides out of Lagunitas, he gazes on the fair domain. The last thing he
sees is the chapel cross. A chill suddenly strikes him. He gallops on. Rapidly journeying to
Mariposa, he installs himself in the headquarters of his friends. His ablest counsel has provided
the bought Judge, with full secret instructions to meet every contingency.

Sober and serious in final judgment, Philip Hardin quickly summons a discreet friend. He requests
a last personal interview with Natalie de Santos. The ambassador is received by good-humored
Joe Woods. He declines an interview, by the lady's orders, unless its object is stated.

Hardin requests that some friend other than the Missouri miner, may be named to represent Natalie.

His eyes gleam when the selection is made of Pere Francois. Just what he would wish.

It lacks now but three days of the final hearing. An hour after the message, Hardin and the
priest are seated, in quiet commune. There are no papers. There is no time lost, none to lose.
No witnesses, no interlopers.

Hardin opens his proposals. The priest seems tractable. "I do not wish to refer to any present
legal matters. I speak only of the past. I will refer only to the future of 'Madame de Santos.'
You may say to her that if she will grant me a brief interview, I feel I can make her a proposition
she will accept, as very advantageous. In justice to her, I cannot communicate its details,
even to you. But if she wishes to advise with you, I have no objection to giving you the guarantees
of my provision for her future. You shall know as much of our whole arrangement as she wishes
you to. She can have you or other friends, in an adjoining room. You can be called in to witness
the papers, and examine the details."

The grave priest returns in half an hour. Hardin ponders uneasily. The priest plays an unimpassioned
part. "Madame de Santos will receive Judge Hardin on his terms, with the condition, that if
there is any exciting difference, Judge Hardin will retire at once, and not renew his proposals."
Hardin accepts. Now for work.

Side by side, the new-made senator and the old priest walk across the plaza. Success smiles
on Hardin.

Local quid-nuncs mutter "Compromise," as they seek the spiritual consolation of the Magnolia
Saloon and Palace Varieties. Is there to be no pistol practice after all?

Alas, these degenerate days! The camp has lost its glory. Betting has been two to one that
Colonel Joe Woods riddles the Judge before the trial is over.

Now these bets will be off. A fraud on the innocent public. The decadence of Mariposa.

Yet, Hardin is not easy. In the first struggle of his life with a priest, Hardin feels himself
no match for his passionless antagonist. The waxen mask of the Church hides the inner soul
of the man.

Only when Pere Francois turns his searching gaze on the Judge, parrying every move, does the
lawyer feel how the immobility of the clergyman is proof against his wiles and professional
ambushes.

Pere Francois conducts Hardin into the room whence Natalie dismissed him, in her roused but
sadly wounded spirit. She is there, waiting. Her face is marble in pallor.

With a grave bow, the old ecclesiastic retires to an adjoining room and leaves them alone.
There is a writing table.

"Madame, to spare you discussion," Hardin remarks seriously, "I will write on two sheets of
paper what I ask and what I offer. You may confer with your adviser. I will retire. You can
add to either anything you propose. We can then, at once, observe if we can approach each other."

Natalie's stately head bows assent in silence. In five minutes Hardin hands her the two sheets.

Natalie's face puzzles him. Calm and unmoved, she looks him quietly in the eyes, as if in a
mute farewell. She has simply uttered monosyllables, in answer to his few explanations.

Hardin walks up and down upon the veranda, while Natalie, the priest, and Colonel Joe scan
the two sheets. His heart beats quickly while the trio read his proposals.

They are simple enough. What he gets and what he gives. Madame de Santos is to absent herself
from the trial. She is to leave Isabel Valois, her charge, with the priest. She is to be silent
as to the entire past.

Hardin's lawyers are to stipulate, in case of Isabel Valois being defeated in any of her rights,
she shall be free to receive a fund equal to that settled on the absent child of Natalie. Her
freedom comes with her majority in any case.

Judge Hardin offers, on the other hand:

To give a written recognition of the private marriage, and to fully legalize the absent Irene.

To admit her to his succession, and to surrender all control to the mother.

On condition of Natalie de Santos ceasing all marital claims and disappearing at once, she
is to receive five hundred thousand dollars, in bankers' drafts to her order in Paris, six
months after the legal separation.

Hardin's tread re-echoes on the porch. His mind is busied. Is he to have a closing career of
unsullied honor in the Senate? He is yet in a firm, if frosty age. A dignified halo will surround
his second marriage. It is better thus. Peace and silence at any cost. And Lagunitas' millions
to come. The mine--his dear-bought treasure. It is coming, Philip Hardin. Peace and rest? it
will be peace and silence. He starts! The black-robed priest is at the door. Father Francois
has now resumed his soutane.

"Will you kindly enter?" he says.

Hardin, with unmoved face, seats himself opposite Natalie. Pere Francois remains.

"I will accept your terms, Judge Hardin," she steadily says, "with the addition that the advice
of Judge Davis be at my service regarding the papers, and that I leave to-morrow for San Francisco.

"You are to send an agent, also. The money to be transferred by telegraph, payable absolutely
to me at Paris, by my bankers, at the appointed time. Your agent may accompany me to the frontier
of the State. I will leave as soon as the bankers acknowledge the transfer.

"In case of any failure on your part, the obligation to keep silent ceases. I retain the marriage
papers."

Hardin bows his head. The priest is silent. In a few moments, the senator-elect says:

"I agree to all." His senatorial debut pictures itself in his mind.

Madame de Santos rises, "I authorize Pere Francois to remain with you, on my behalf. Let the
papers be at once prepared. I am ready to leave to-morrow morning. I only insist the two papers
which would affect my child, be duplicated, and both witnessed by our lawyers."

Hardin bows assent. Natalie de Santos walks toward the door of her rooms. Her last words fall
on his ear: "Pere Francois will represent me in all." She is going. Hardin springs to the door:
"And I shall see you again?" His voice quivers slightly. Old days throng back to his memory.
"Is it for ever?" His iron heart softens a moment.

"I pray God, never! Philip Hardin, you are dead to me. The past is dead. I can only think of
you with your cruel grasp on my throat!" She is gone.

As the door closes, Hardin buries his face in his hands. Thoughts of other days are rending
his heart-strings.

Before three hours, the papers are all executed. The morning stage takes Natalie de Santos,
with the priest, and guarded by Armand Valois, away from the scene of the coming legal battle.

In the early gray of the dawn, Philip Hardin only catches a glimpse of a muffled form in a
coach. He will see the mother of his child no more. With a wild dash, the stage sweeps away.
It is all over.

His agent, in a special conveyance, is already on the road. He has orders to telegraph the
completion of the transfer. He is to verify the departure for New York, of the ex-queen of
the El Dorado.

On the day of the hearing, the court-house is crowded. Pere Francois and Armand Valois have
not yet returned. Both sides have received, by telegraph, the news of the completion of the
work. By stipulation, the newly-acknowledged marriage is not to be made public.

Hardin, pale and thoughtful, enters the court with his supporters. There is but one young lady
present. With her, Peyton, Judge Davis, and Joseph Woods are seated. Raoul Dauvray seats himself
quietly between the two parties.

When the case is reached, there is the repression of a deathly silence. Hardin, by the advice
of his lawyers, will stand strictly on the defensive. He has decided to acknowledge his entire
readiness to close his guardianship. He will leave the heirship to be finally adjusted by the
Court. The Court is under his thumb.

His senatorial duties call for this relief. It will take public attention from the unpleasant
matter. Rid of the burden of the ranch, still the "bonanza of Lagunitas" will be his, as always.

The great lawyer he relies on states plausibly this entire willingness to such a relief, and
requests the Court to appoint a successor to the distinguished trustee. Hardin feels that he
has now covered his past with a solid barrier. Safe at last. No living man can roll away the
huge rock from the "tomb of the dead past." It would need a voice from the grave. He can defy
the whole world. No thought of his dead friend haunts him.

When the advocate ceases speaking, while the Judge ponders over the disputed heirship, and
the contest as to the legitimacy of Maxime Valois' child, when clearly identified, Judge Davis
rises quietly to address the Court. Philip Hardin feels a slight chill icing down his veins,
as he notes the gravity of the Eastern lawyer's manner. Is there a masked battery?

"Your Honor," begins Davis, "we oppose any action tending to discharge or relieve the present
guardian of Isabel Valois.

"A most important discovery of new matters in the affairs of this estate, makes it my duty
to lay some startling facts before your Honor."

There is a pause. Hardin's heart flutters madly. He sees a stony look gather on Joe Woods'
face. There is a peculiar grimness also in the visage of the watchful Peyton. Everyone in the
room is on the alert. Crowding to the front, Hardin is elbowed by a man who seats himself in
a chair reserved by Judge Davis.

His eyes are blinded for a moment. Great Heavens! It is his old law-clerk. The wily and once
hilarious Jaggers.

He is here for some purpose. That devil Woods' work.

Hardin's hand clutches a revolver in his pocket. He glares uneasily at Joe Woods, at Peyton,
at the ex-clerk. He breathlessly waits for the solemn voice of Davis:

"We propose, your Honor, to introduce evidence that the late Maxime Valois left a will. We
propose to prove that the estate has been maladministered. We will prove to your Honor that
a gigantic fraud has been perpetrated during the minority of the child of Colonel Valois. The
most valuable element of the estate, the Lagunitas mine, has been fraudulently enjoyed by the
administrator."

Hardin springs to his feet. He is forced into his chair by his counsel. There is the paleness
of death on his face, but murder lurks in his heart. Away with patience now. A hundred eyes
are gazing in his direction. The Judge is anchored, in amazement, on the bench. Woods and Peyton
are facing Hardin, with steady defiance.

As he struggles to rise, he feels his blood boiling like molten iron.

He has been trapped by this devil, Woods. Davis resumes: "I shall show your Honor, by the man
who held Colonel Valois in his arms on the battlefield as he lay dying, that a will was duly
forwarded to the guardian and administrator, who concealed it. I will also prove, your Honor,
that Colonel Valois repeated that will in a document taken from his dead body, in which he
acknowledged his marriage, and the legitimacy of his true child. I will file these papers,
and prove them by testimony of the gallant officer who buried him, and who succeeded to his
regiment."

A deep growl from Hardin is heard. He knows now who Peyton is. What avenging fiends are on
his track? But the mine, the mine is safe. Always the mine, The deeds will hold. Davis resumes,
his voice ringing cold and clear:

"I shall also prove by documents, concealed by the administrator, that Maxime Valois never
parted with the title to the Lagunitas mine; that the millions have been stolen, which it has
yielded. I will bring in the evidence of the clerk who received these last letters from the
absent owner in the field, that they are genuine. They state his utter inability to sell the
mine, as the whole property belonged to his wife."

There is a blood-red film before Hardin's eyes now. Prudence flies after patience. It is his
Waterloo. All is lost, even honor.

"I venture to remind your Honor, that even if the daughter, whom I produce here, is proved
illegitimate, that she takes the whole property, including the mine, as the legal heir of her
mother, under the laws of California." A murmur is suppressed by the clerk's hammer.

There is an awful silence as Judge Davis adds: "I will further produce before your Honor, Armand
Valois, the only other heir of the decedent, to whom the succession would fall by law. He is
named in the will I will establish, made twelve hours before the writer was killed at the battle
of Peachtree Creek.

"I am aware," Judge Davis concludes, "that some one has forged the titles to the Lagunitas
mine. I will prove the forgery to have been executed in the interest of Philip Hardin, the
administrator, whom I now formally ask you to remove pending this trial, as a man false to
his trust. He has robbed the orphan daughter of his friend. He deceived the man who laid his
life down for the cause of the South, while he plotted in the safe security of distant California
homes. Colonel Valois was robbed by his trusted friend."

A mighty shudder shakes the crowd. Men gaze at each other, wildly. The blinking Judge is dazed
on the bench he pollutes. Before any one can draw a breath in relief, Hardin, bending himself
below the restraining arms, springs to his feet and levels a pistol full at Joe Woods' breast.

"You hound!" he yells. His arm is struck up; Raoul Dauvray has edged every moment nearer the
disgraced millionaire. The explosion of the heavy pistol deafens those near. When the smoke
floats away, a gaping wound tells where its ball crashed through Hardin's brain. Slain by his
own hand. Dead and disgraced. The senatorial laurels never touch his brow!

In five minutes the court is cleared. An adjournment to the next day is forced by the sudden
tragedy. The wild mob are thronging the plaza.

Silent in death lies the man who realized at last how the awful voice of the dead Confederate
called down the vengeance of God on the despoiler of the orphan.

The telegraph, lightning-winged, bears the news far and wide. By the evening Pere Francois
and Armand Valois return. In a few hours Natalie de Santos turns backward. The swift wheels
speeding down the Truckee are slower than the electric spark bearing to the ex-queen of the
El Dorado, the wife of a day, the news of her legal widowhood.

Henry Peyton brings back the traveller, whose presence is now absolutely needed.

A lonely grave on the red hillside claims the last remains of the dark Chief of the Golden
Circle. Few stand by its yawning mouth, to see the last of the man whose name has been just
hailed everywhere with wild enthusiasm.

Unloved, unhonored, unregretted, unshriven, with all his imperfections on his head, he waits
the last trump. Alone in death, as in life.

In the brief and formal verification of all these facts, the Court finds an opportunity to
at once establish the identity of the heiress of Lagunitas. For, there is no contest now.

In formal devotion to the profession, Hardin's lawyer represents the estate of the dark schemer.

The legal tangles yield to final proofs.

There is a family party at Lagunitas once more. Judge Davis and Peyton guard the interests
of the girl who has only lost the millions of Lagunitas to inherit a fortune from the father
who scorned to even gaze upon her face. Joseph Woods joyfully guides the beautiful heiress
of the domain, who kneels besides the grave of Dolores Peralta, her unknown mother, with her
lover by her side. The last of the Valois stand there, hand in hand. She is Louise Moreau no more.

Pere Francois is again in his old home by the little chapel, where twenty years ago he raised
his voice in the daily supplication for God's sinful children.

While Raoul Dauvray and Armand ride in voyages of discovery over the great domain, the two
heiresses are happy with each other. There is no question between them. They are innocent of
each other's sorrows. They now know much of the shadowy past with its chequered romance. The
transfer of all the mine and its profits to the young girl, who finds the domain in the hills
a fairyland, is accomplished.

Judge Davis hies himself away to the splendid excitement of his Eastern metropolitan practise.
His "honorarium" causes him to have an added and tender feeling for the all-conquering Joe
Woods. Henry Peyton is charged with the general supervision of the Lagunitas estate. He is
aided by a mine superintendent selected by that wary old Argonaut, Joe.

Natalie de Santos leaves the refuge of lovely Lagunitas in a few weeks. There is a shadow resting
on her heart which will never be lifted. In vain, beside the old chapel, seated under the giant
rose-vines, Pere Francois urges her to witness the marriage of her daughter. Under the care
of Joseph Woods, she leaves for San Francisco. Her daughter, who is soon to take a rightful
name, learns from Pere Francois the agreed-on reasons of her absence. Natalie will not make
a dark background to the happiness to come. Silence and expiation await her beyond the surges
of the Atlantic.

Joseph Woods and Pere Francois have buried all awkward references to past history. Irene Dauvray
will never know the story of the lovely "Queen of the El Dorado."

There are no joy bells at Lagunitas on the day when the old priest unites Armand and Isabel
Valois in marriage. The same solemn consecration gives gallant Raoul Dauvray, the woman he
adores. It is a sacrament of future promise. Peyton and Joe Woods are the men who stand in
place of the fathers of these two dark-eyed brides. It is a solemn and tender righting of the
old wrongs. A funeral of the past--a birth of a brighter day, for all.

The load of care and strife has been taken from the shoulders of the three elders, who gravely
watch the four glowing and enraptured lovers.

In a few weeks, Raoul Dauvray and his bride leave for San Francisco. Fittingly they choose
France for their home. In San Francisco, Joseph Woods leads the young bride through the silent
halls of the old house on the hill. The Missourian gravely bids the young wife remember that
it was here her feet wandered over the now neglected paths.

Joseph Woods convoys the departing voyagers to the border of the State. The ample fortune secured
to them, will engage his occasional leisure in advice as to its local management.

Natalie de Santos goes forth with them. Her home in Paris awaits her. The Golden State knows
her no more. Her feet will never wander back to the shores where her stormy youth was passed.

A lover's pilgrimage to beloved Paris and the old castle by the blue waters of Lake Geneva
claims the Lord and Lady of Lagunitas. For, they will return to dwell in the mountains of Mariposa.
Before they cross the broad Atlantic, they have a sacred duty to perform. It is to visit the
grave of the soldier of the Lost Cause and lay their wreaths upon the turf which covers his
gallant breast.

The old padre sits on the porch of his house at Lagunitas. He waits only for the last solemn
act. Henry Peyton is to follow the travellers East, and remove the soldier of the gray to the
little chapel grounds of Lagunitas.

When Padre Francisco has seen the master come home, and raised his weakening voice in requiem
over the friend of his youth, he will seek once more his dear Paris, and find again his cloistered
home near Notre Dame.

He has, as a memorial of mother and daughter, a deed of the old home of Philip Hardin. It is
given to the Church for a hospital. It is well so. None of the living ever wish to pass again
its shadowed portals.

While waiting the time for their departure, the priest and Henry Peyton watch the splendid
beauties of Lagunitas, in peaceful brotherhood. The man of war and the servant of peace are
drawn towards each other strangely.

The Virginian often gazes on the sword of Maxime Valois, hanging now over the hearthplace he
left in his devotion to the Lost Cause. He thanks God that the children of the old blood are
in the enjoyment of their birthright.

Padre Francisco, telling his beads, or whiling an hour away with his breviary, begins to nod
easily as the lovely summer days deepen in splendor. He is an old man now, yet his heart is
touched with the knowledge of God's infinite mercy as he looks over the low wall to where the
roses bloom around: the grave of Dolores Valois.

He hopes to live yet to know, that gallant father and patient mother will live over again in
the happy faces of the children of their orphaned child.

In the United States of America, at this particular juncture, no happier man than Colonel and
State Senator Joseph Woods can be found. His mines are unfailing in their yield; his bachelor
bungalow, in its splendor, will extinguish certain ambitious rivals, and he is freed from the
nightmare of investigating the tangled web of the mysterious struggle for the millions of Lagunitas.
He is confirmed in his resolve to remain a bachelor.

"I have two home camps now, one in Paris and one in California, where I am a sort of a brevet
father. I won't be lonely," Joe merrily says.

Joseph's cheery path in life is illuminated by his gorgeous diamonds, and roped in with his
massive watch-chains. More precious than the gold and gems is the rough and ready manhood of
the old Argonaut. He seriously thinks of eschewing the carrying of weapons, and abandoning
social adventures, becoming staid and serene like Father Francois.

He often consoles himself in his loneliness by the thought that Henry Peyton is also a man
without family. "I will capture Peyton when he gets the young people in good shape, and they
are tired of Paris style," Joe muses. "He's a man and a brother, and we will spend our old
days in peace together."

One haunting, sad regret touches Colonel Joe's heart. He learns of the intention of Natalie
to spend her days in retirement and in helping others.

Thinking of her splendid beauty, her daring struggle for her friendless child's rights, and
all that is good of the only woman he ever could have desperately loved, he guards her secret
in his breast. He dare not confess to his own heart that if there had been an honorable way,
he would fain have laid his fortune at the feet of the peerless "Queen of the El Dorado."

Francois Ribaut, walking the deck of the steamer, gazes on the great white stars above him.
The old man is peaceful, and calmly thankful. The night breezes moan over the lonely Atlantic!
As the steamer bravely dashes the spray aside, his heart bounds with a new happiness. Every
hour brings the beloved France nearer to him. Looking back at the life and land he leaves behind
him, the old priest marvels at the utter uselessness of Philip Hardin's life. Apples of Sodom
were all his treasures. His wasted gifts, his dark schemes, his sly plans, all gone for naught.
Blindly driven along in the darkness of evil, his own hand pulled down his palace of sin on
his head. And even "French Charlie" was avenged by the murderer's self-executed sentence. "Vengeance
is mine, saith the Lord; I will repay." The innocent and helpless have wandered past each dark
pitfall dug by the wily Hardin, and enjoy their own. Pere Francois, with his eyes cast backward
on his own life path, feels that he has not fought the good fight in vain. His gentle heart
throbs in sympathy, filled with an infinite compassion for the lonely Natalie de Santos. Sinned
against and sinning. A free lance, with only her love for her child to hallow and redeem her.
Her own plans, founded in guile, have all miscarried. Blood stains the gold bestowed on her
by Philip Hardin's death. Her life has been a stormy sea. Yet, to her innocent child, a name
and fortune have been given by the hand of Providence. In turning away her face from the vain
and glittering world she has adorned, the chase and plaything of men, one pure white flower
will bloom from the red ashes of her dead life. The unshaken affection of the child for whom
she struggled, who can always, in ignorance of the dark past, lift happy eyes to hers and call
her in love, by the holy name of mother. With bowed head and thankful heart, Padre Francisco's
thoughts linger around beautiful Lagunitas. Its groves and forest arches, its mirrored lake,
its smiling beauties and fruitful fields, return to him. The old priest murmurs: "God made
Lagunitas; but man made California what it has been."

A land of wild adventure, of unrighted wrongs. A land of sad histories, of many shattered hopes.
Fierce waves of adventurers swept away the simple early folk. Lawless license, flaunting vice,
and social disorganization made its early life as a State, one mad chaos.

The Indians have perished, rudely despoiled. The old Dons have faded into the gray mists of
a dead past. The early Argonauts have lived out the fierce fever of their wild lives. To the
old individual freebooters, a new order of great corporate monopolies and gigantic rough-hewn
millionaires succeeds. There is always some hand on the people's throat in California. Yet
the star of hope glitters.

Slowly, through all the foamy restless waves of transient adventurers the work of the homebuilders
is showing the dry land decked with the olive branches of peace.

The native sons and daughters of the Golden West, bright, strong, self-reliant and full of
promise, are the glittering-eyed young guardians of the Golden Gate. Born of the soil, with
life's battle to fight on their native hills, may they build around the slopes of the Pacific,
a State great in its hearths and homes. The future shines out. The gloomy past recedes. The
sunlight of freedom sparkles on the dreamy lake of Lagunitas!