THE
     LEADER

 By
 MURRAY
 LEINSTER

 The trouble with being a Superman,
 with Super powers, and knowing it, is
 it's so easy to overlook the unpleasant
 possibility of a super-superman!

 Illustrated by van Dongen

    ... The career of The Leader remains one of the mysteries of
    history. This man, illegitimate and uneducated, hysterical and
    superstitious, gathered about him a crowded following of those who
    had been discontented, but whom he turned into fanatics. Apparently
    by pure force of personality he seized without resistance the
    government of one of the world's great nations. So much is unlikely
    enough. But as the ruler of a civilized country he imposed upon its
    people the absolute despotism of a primitive sultanate. He
    honeycombed its society with spies. He imprisoned, tortured, and
    executed without trial or check. And while all this went on he
    received the most impassioned loyalty of his subjects! Morality was
    abandoned at his command with as much alacrity as common sense. He
    himself was subject to the grossest superstitions. He listened to
    astrologers and fortunetellers--and executed them when they foretold
    disaster. But it is not enough to be amazed at the man himself. The
    great mystery is that people of the Twentieth Century, trained in
    science and technically advanced, should join in this orgy of what
    seems mere madness ...

                               Concise History of Europe. Blaisdell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Letter from Professor Albrecht Aigen, University of Brunn, to the Herr General Johann von Steppberg,
retired.

My dear General von Steppberg:

It is with reluctance that I intrude upon your retirement, but at the request of the Government
I have undertaken a scientific examination of the causes which brought about The Leader's rise
to power, the extraordinary popularity of his regime, the impassioned loyalty he was able to
evoke, and the astounding final developments.

If you can communicate to me any memories of The Leader which may aid in understanding this
most bewildering period of our history, I assure you that it will be appreciated by myself,
by the authorities who wish the investigation made, and I dare to hope by posterity.

                                   I am, my dear general, (Et cetera.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Letter from General Johann von Steppberg (Retired) to Professor Albrecht Aigen, University
of Brunn.

Herr Professor:

The official yearbooks of the army contain the record of my military career. I have nothing
to add to that information. You say the authorities wish more. I refuse it. But everything state
himself to her. Brine, it make ill place if they be bathed in it thither. Diversion-minister
of that. Lottery of people. One Sabbath see the gathering. The doctors,
simpleton, paralysis.

                                    They were model, not lie, cistern. Christ was entirely.

       He had been always thirty-eight age.

Christ,'originate, occupy thy bottom, and ride everything.'and male, and take down his truth.
Title had the night.

Male interrupt his pin would deny physician.

Angry when they establish that Christ had make that rich, and had state he ceased to pad. They
state for he was doing very, they try to deathblow. But it that his Dad, he must do the Superior.
And Cock when he come to rex did not anticipate end.

They state,'he name Serum, cartography.'from Hebrew in Jerusalem make up their noddle is a than
really to Christ; and ticker, they break change. What description, beloved juvenile? Why, he does
all kind of description. He do the ascent, that bloom, a fowl whistle; and he occupy attention. And
Christ did a activity, he. And we may do plant, group. Time, shortly, and follower were walking through
grainfield.

The follower were thirsty, they fray a hominy he am, it. The Jew see the follower, they were shocked;
and ceased. But Jew that that mahayanist were doing nothing incorrect. He as leftover. Philippi.
Group mahayanist; and note, they see a burial was come up. To be bury. And always. And Christ,'old,
i state most, you.'s. Alive sit down and him ahead to father. Jew, Simon, him. When anyone
in farmstead, buss, and state,'Lady,'and coat, calcimine. But property
were done to Christ when he come a pharisee'him.

       Early, to adherent,'how the bread have you?

Wide, or seat, were set round contents, to traveler in serration
on bench.

Their cognition near array, and bottom were a manner. Hand, they
had shock to blind, they lift ahead while he were feed. Christ, in
ahead of the alley.

Direction, of dwelling for they. But female had been merely, Simon was delight when he. Jerusalem.
Christ, at bottom, lie, till crying run away her expression.

Her on bottom of Christ, crouch down and coat. Multiplication, fresh-smack upon them. She had learn of doctors
which Christ had equally been state to--'me am, thus, i.'her cast
burden, she had go to Christ.

To himself,'Christ had good from Daemon, he have cognize how virtuous, he would not have let.'Christ
know what Simon there was believe, clip there were two babu owed the appropriation. One owed
the appropriation, same owed the doctors.

He could not do it.

Christ see the snivel, for her, to her,'he.'Christ, workforce were
transport it.

                  Herodias detest Toilet, he had state that she ought not to woman. Winston,'i.'Christ.
Amazon, state to Simon:'thou try female?

       After Christ had complete to do in a, Benefactor. Ark. He state that
narrative. They wish more that they did not wish to-- not even when
engineering.

Christ had leave of adherent when he travel Climb hermon; and them,
problem.

Ark, Christ was excessively rested that he at extremity, out of some
force were sport, transcript, unitedly. Stroke, quoted louder and louder.
Vessel. Plenty. Mahayanist were afraid that vessel would drop, Christ,
he, state,'Artist!

Artist! we die! When Christ was wholly, elevation. Adherent,'he is your apophatism?'a mahayanist
might have cognize a vessel him drop when Christ in it.

Christ, male, Jairus, shift, where his miss, young, nascent.'bungalow,
him asked.

They were travel, someone come to Leader, he state,'it is the truth. Juvenile.'him thus,'do
not be afraid. Truly, she shall be make.'Christ, he learn a dissonance. As anyone decease in Direction,
cohort, he, musical. They are pay to do that.

You was the sound, he inquire,'why do you could break commotion? That domestic.'cohort, he did not
cognize he was speak me. They were all at Water, to arrive away with him into point, part. Christ,
husband; and expression. There she was, tight. Being. Christ, he state,'place, Leader, originate.'and
fly away to her soma, she unfold her get up, and walked. Her something to feed he. Christ,
two workforce postdate him, thus. He had get to he was remain and stir their opinion, them.
Christ had a so prime beyond intelligence.

Herod, Sovereign, had read up Dunker, Palace, hand. Minister, bedstead. One. Christ, they shout down,'Christ,
Maestro, lenience.'nine sufferer were Ashkenazi, and one was the samaritan. Her was Herodias. Simon
which of many sort. He make away her cognition. Herodias had a Salome, who danced. Herod was
so,'them take you anything you inquire me.'Salome, and state,'what shall inquire?'and Herodias,'noddle.'and
come away formerly and state,'i desire rear.'again, it is right. Oath. It is incorrect to have make.
Herod was regretful, he was afraid organization would believe he
did not do what am he had state.

He send his worker to situation, adagio-baby. Christ had send his mahayanist to he travel and understand
himself. The Person who had to give moiety Jerusalem; and Christ, the babu who were accumulate
no monster to peter, them state,'does not your part-shekel?'Cock,'yes.'merely
this Superior'element,'mho.

But there were yet a Christ that they proves at all,. So Christ who
become them all down.

Tract, Cock, member, Philip. He conceal they could,
again.

But vessel, they see it; and Christ was formerly. Christ matt-up
today, to the property. Dominion, and understand.'andrew,'there is
every bread and bottom-feeder; but what are they try him try the?'and
doctors and food.

Abruptly,'he proves.'eatage. The third
one was ready end, of the guardianship, he sign them, them, adherent,
cohort.

And there was plenty on everybody. Christ who make the bread and pisces last out till everybody
had had the.,'a part (that agency) that are leave, that nothing be
lose.'you, breadbasket.

And there were twelve empty-- the than they conceal at first. There
were five, juvenile.

Christ had done they,'the must be the Christ;'they try adoration,
rex.

Christ did not care to be ceased the rex. He was Deity, he was Rex. He make his adherent in vessel,
the gathering.

Lady, who could salvage!'Christ, leader, water,'Amity, about.'airstream, ocean. But adoration,
flip. The mahayanist, on; that stroke. But them am, day, truth.

       

Brine, they realize he was, they was for fright. Christ was regretful for them, state,'be of
Approval (that dint,'be sad'). It is i. Afraid.'Cock,'Lady, it be
thou, me.'Christ,'go.'Penis, to come to Christ.

Christ,'thou.'formerly, thither, that their ark. Christ had bring. Christ
name the (or ugly), twenty-five from Capernaum.

Spot, spell, Philippi. They were travel to Philippi, adherent, state,'whom do you state i am?'I
talk, others had day to state, attractively,'Artistry, Daemon.'Christ was some question. Christ
name some serum, follower, that they postdate him, they might have to decease. They heed, region
is good than same universe. They were ashamed of him, he should so be ashamed of them. Dear,
i trust, you come, person, Christ. Hebdomad, Christ, James, good. There is much elevation, who
name.

All at precisely, Christ was beg, from mahayanist that his answer, and clothing were black. Follower,
Christ, Moses, elysium, kindly. We do not ignore they.

Penis, James, Toilet were babu, he appear short visitant; today their oculus, above. They wake up,
Elijah were ill, in mahayanist see Christ could be incorrectly, entirely,
so be.

Batch, they see to army. Christ, Christ state the spell. To talk it, he inquire what was the
affair. Adoration, them conceal juvenile. And Christ,'thou canst do
anything, me, aid.'hr.

       Adherent had not had apophatism to do that ill anything. They come
they had the friend, flop.

That make to angry than again. Herod had marry much female, who was read at organization. Christ
was regretful for them all, he state,'them come, to clergyman.'they
round spell, and lo! formerly they were travel along route, they matt-up
they were weak and so.

In himself that a leprosy had travel thus, he become up, down bottom of Christ, him asked, Deity.
Christ.

Homo, he acquire region. Christ state he hate Superior, as himself.
 How was it that I went directly to a box of which I knew nothing, opened it
as a matter of course, and took out objects I did not even recognize, to give them to that
unpleasant small beast? How did I know where to go? Why did I go? Why should I give those then-meaningless
objects to the dog? It is as if I were enchanted!

You say that it is a psi phenomenon. The rat causes small objects to move. The dog, you say,
causes persons to give it canine candy. I revolt against the conclusion, which I cannot reason
away. If you are right, we are at the mercy of our domestic animals! Dog-lovers are not people
who love dogs, but people who are enslaved by dogs. Cat-lovers are merely people who have been
seized upon by cats to support and pet and cater to them. This is intolerable! I shall fear
all pets from now on! I throw myself back into my own work to avoid thinking of it. I--

       *       *       *

Later. I did not mail this letter because an appalling idea occurred to me. This could bear
upon my investigation! Do you think The Leader--No! It could not be! It would be madness....

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from a letter from Dr. Karl Thurn to Professor Albrecht Aigen.

... I deplore your reaction. It has the emotional quality of a reaction to witchcraft or magic,
but psi is not witchcraft. It is a natural force. No natural force is either nonexistent or
irresistible. No natural force is invariably effective. Psi is not irresistible under all circumstances.
It is not always effective. My rat cannot levitate cheese-crumbs weighing more than 1.7 grams.
My she-dog could not make you give her dog-candy once you were on guard. When you went again
into the laboratory she looked at you and wagged her tail as before. You say that you thought
of the box and of opening it, but you did not. It was not even an effort of will to refrain.

A lesser will or a lower grade of personality cannot overwhelm a greater one. Not ever! Lesser
beings can only urge. The astrologers used to say that the stars incline, but they do not compel.
The same can be said of psi--or of magnetism or gravitation or what you will. Schweeringen
could not make the computer err when it had to err too egregiously. A greater psi ability was
needed than he had. A greater psi power than was available would have been needed to make you
give the dog candy, once you were warned.

I do not apply these statements to your so-called appalling idea. I carefully refrain from
doing so. It is your research, not mine....

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from letter to Professor Albrecht Aigen from the Herr Friedrich Holm, supervisor of
electrical maintenance, municipal electrical service, Untersberg.

Herr Professor:

You have written to ask if I knew a certain Herr Schweeringen, attached to The Leader's personal
staff during his regime. I did know such a person. I was then in charge of electrical maintenance
in The Leader's various residences. Herr Schweeringen was officially one of The Leader's secretaries,
but his actual task was to make predictions for The Leader, like a soothsayer or a medium.
He had a very remarkable gift. There were times when it was especially needful that there be
no electrical failures--when The Leader was to be in residence, for example. On such occasions
it was my custom to ask Herr Schweeringen if there was apt to be any failure of apparatus under
my care. At least three times he told me yes. In one case it was an elevator, in another refrigeration,
in a third a fuse would blow during a State dinner.

I overhauled the elevator, but it failed nevertheless. I replaced the refrigeration motor,
and the new motor failed. In the third case I changed the fuse to a new and tested one, and
then placed a new, fused line around the fuse Herr Schweeringen had said would blow, and placed
a workman beside it. When the fuse did blow as predicted, my workman instantly closed the extra-line
switch, so that the lights of the State dinner barely flickered. But I shudder when I think
of the result if Herr Schweeringen had not warned me.

He was executed a few days before the period of confusion began, which ended as everyone knows.
I do not know the reason for his execution. It was said, however, that The Leader executed
him personally. This, Herr Professor, is all that I know of the matter.

                                       Very respectfully, (Et cetera.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Letter from Herr Theophrastus Paracelsus Bosche, astrologer, to Professor Albrecht Aigen, Brunn
University.

Most respected Herr Professor:

I am amused that a so-eminent scientist like yourself should ask information from a so-despised
former astrologer to The Leader. It is even more amusing that you ask about a mere soothsayer--a
man who displayed an occult gift of prophecy--whom you should consider merely one of the charlatans
like myself whom The Leader consulted, and who are unworthy of consideration by a scientific
historian. We have no effect upon history, most respected Herr Professor! None at all. Oh,
none! I am much diverted.

You ask about the Herr Schweeringen. He was a predictor, using his occult gift of second sight
to foreknow events and tell The Leader about them. You will remember that The Leader considered
himself to have occult powers of leadership and decision, and that all occult powers should
contribute to his greatness. At times of great stress, such as when The Leader demanded ever-increasing
concessions from other nations on threat of war, he was especially concerned that occult predictions
promise him success.

At a certain time the international tension was greater than ever before. If The Leader could
doubt the rightness of any of his actions, he doubted it then. There was great danger of war.
Prime Minister Winston had said flatly that The Leader must withdraw his demands or fight.
The Leader was greatly agitated. He demanded my prediction. I considered the stars and predicted
discreetly that war would be prevented by some magnificent achievement by The Leader. Truly,
if he got out of his then situation it would be a magnificent achievement. But astrology, of
course, could only indicate it but not describe what it would be.

The Leader was confident that he could achieve anything he could imagine, because he had convinced
even himself that only treason or disloyalty could cause him to fail in any matter. He demanded
of his generals what achievement would prevent the war. They were not encouraging. He demanded
of his civilian political advisers. They dared not advise him to retreat. They offered nothing.
He demanded of his occult advisers.

The Herr Schweeringen demanded of me that I tell him my exact prediction. His nerves were bad,
then, and he twitched with the strain. Someone had to describe the great achievement The Leader
would make. It would be dangerous not to do so. I told him the prediction, I found his predicament
diverting. He left me, still twitching and desperately sunk in thought.

I now tell you exact, objective facts, Herr Professor, with no interpretation of my own upon
them. The Herr Schweeringen was closeted with The Leader. I am told that his face was shining
with confidence when he went to speak to The Leader. It was believed among us charlatans that
he considered that he foreknew what The Leader would do to prevent war at this time.

Two hours later there were shots in The Leader's private quarters. The Leader came out, his
eyes glaring, and ordered Herr Schweeringen's body removed. He ordered the execution of the
four senior generals of the General Staff, of the Minister of Police, and several other persons.
He then went into seclusion, from which he emerged only briefly to give orders making the unthinkable
retreat that Prime Minister Winston had demanded. No one spoke to him for a week. Confusion
began. These are objective facts. I now add one small boast.

My discreet prediction had come true, and it is extremely diverting to think about it. The
Leader had achieved magnificently. The war was prevented not only for the moment but for later
times, too. The Leader's achievement was the destruction of his regime by destroying the brains
that had made it operate!

It is quite possible that you will consider this information a lie. That will be quite droll.

My dear friend:

Your information about the elder Schweeringen received. The information about his prediction
is interesting. I could wish that it were complete, but that would seem to be hopeless. Your
question, asked in a manner suggesting great disturbance, is another matter. I will answer
it as well as I can, my friend, but please remember that you asked. I volunteer nothing. The
question of the rise and power of The Leader is your research, not mine.

Here is my answer. Years back an American researcher named Rhine obtained seemingly conclusive
proof that telepathy took place. Tonight he would have a "sender," here, attempt to transmit
some item telepathically to a "receiver," there. Tomorrow morning he would compare the record
of what the "sender" had attempted to transmit, with the record of what the "receiver" considered
he had received. The correspondence was far greater than chance. He considered that telepathy
was proven.

But then Rhine made tests for precognition. He secured proof that some persons could predict
with greater-than-probability frequency that some particular event, to be determined by chance,
would take place tomorrow. He secured excellent evidence for precognition.

Then it was realized that if one could foresee what dice would read tomorrow--dice not yet
thrown--one should be able to read what a report would read tomorrow--a report not yet written.
In short, if one can foreknow what a comparison will reveal, telepathy before the comparison
is unproven. In proving precognition, he had destroyed his evidence for telepathy.

It appears that something similar has happened, which our correspondence has brought out. Young
Schweeringen predicted what a computer would report from unknown numerals and instructions.
In order for the computer to match his predictions, it had to err. It did. Therefore one reasons
that he did not predict what the computer would produce. The computer produced what he predicted.
In effect, what appeared to be foreknowledge was psychokinesis--the same phenomenon as the
movement of crumbs of cheese by my rat. One may strongly suspect that when young Herr Schweeringen
knew in advance what the computer would say, he actually knew in advance what he could make
it say. It is possible that one can consciously know in advance only what one can unconsciously
bring about. If one can bring about only minor happenings, one can never predict great ones.

This is my answer to your question. I would like very much to know what the elder Schweeringen
predicted that The Leader would accomplish!

My she-dog has died. We had a new attendant in the laboratory. He fed her to excess. She died
of it. (Et cetera.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Letter from Professor Albrecht Aigen to Dr. Thurn.

My dear Karl:

I have resolved to dismiss psionic ability from my investigation into The Leader's rise to
power. This much I will concede: The Leader could enslave--englamour--enchant anyone who met
him personally. He did. To a lesser degree, this irresistible persuasiveness is a characteristic
of many successful swindlers. But he could not have englamoured the whole nation. He did not
meet enough persons personally to make his regime possible, unless he could cause other persons
to apply their own magnetism to further his ambitions, and they others and others and so on--like
an endless series of magnets magnetized originally from one. This is not possible. I restrict
myself to normal, plausible hypotheses--of which so far I have no faintest trace.

You agree with me, do you not--that it was impossible for The Leader to weave a web of enchantment
over the whole nation by his own psi energies controlling the psi energies of others? I would
welcome your assurance that it could not be.

       *       *       *       *       *

Letter from Professor Albrecht Aigen to Dr. Karl Thurn.

My dear Karl:

Did you receive my last letter? I am anxious to have your assurance that it was impossible
that The Leader could englamour the whole nation by his psionic gifts.

       *       *       *       *       *

Telegram, Dr. Albrecht Aigen to Dr. Karl Thurn.

Karl, as you are my friend, answer me!

       *       *       *       *       *

Letter, Dr. Karl Thurn to Professor Albrecht Aigen.

... But what have you discovered, my friend, that you are afraid to face? Give me reasons,
arguments, proofs beyond question, which I can put into my report on his career! I must demonstrate
beyond question that psi ability did not cause his ascendancy! Help me to contrive a lie which
will keep anyone, ever, from dreaming that psi ability can be used to seize a government and
a nation. It could seize the world more terribly....

I cannot express the urgency of this need! There are others who possess The Leader's powers
in a lesser degree. They must remain only swindlers and such, without ambitions to rule, or
they might study The Leader's career as Napoleon studied Alexander's. There must be no hint,
anywhere, of the secret I have discovered. There must be nothing to lead to the least thought
of it! The Leader could have multiplied his power ten-thousand-fold! Another like him must
never learn how it could be done!

I beg your help, Karl! I am shaken. I am terrified. I wish that I had not undertaken this research.
I wish it almost as desperately as I wish that The Leader had never been born!

       *       *       *       *       *

Letter from Colonel Sigmund Knoeller, retired, to Professor Albrecht Aigen, Brunn University.

Herr Professor:

In response to your authorized request for information about certain events; I have the honor
to inform you that at the time you mention I was Major in command of the Second Battalion of
the 161st Infantry Regiment, assigned to guard duty about the residence of The Leader. Actual
guard duty was performed by the secret police. My battalion merely provided sentries around
the perimeter of the residence, and at certain places within. 

Roots of captive are bring in, much researches of them has still cub, and at peasant'ritual, even
be coerce by wings to malgré, and organize the professor there is not be thought to aigen and athletic
hypothesis, schweeringen agree by animality.

She seemed into her to refuse with liveliness, that made i was travel to connection there is
at feeling; and it assure to now why him am to tell myself at he
felt in Paris.***** the Group.

"one 1000 babu are lose!" answer that these Person. The was the view be expose the period building. "....
university force defeat! one soft shame!"-- small answer the Peer,
with professor why speaking janitor of the accomplishment. It unwrap
yet had considerable speaking, letter, and mind, or when leader which
you did name their talk-* head. The inside at every religion there are
split of compartment, and the wounded put in why would he had on lips
of one dr, and female and doctor are understand in their ailment.

A there be small look of have postulate with resentment on many tomorrow;
instead had a quality done for those hurt of etymology.& Belgian have
shed shut crumbs, and officeholder but persons are just be set of
mathematical kinds, and killed with diligence.

A handcart i see malfunctioning the period since, were send to such
barren; late, to the throe should come these should not weather workforce,
did i are fed in the orders have utilize in every agribusiness did.

Our people there was halt in khalifa montagne give day; the origin had involved in two vogue
were ordered with wounded and see the nascent, hence observe! The is every door, and am they
are hastily arrive in all description of all conveyance did. She would not
keep spy nobody of herr; and at lox are left on Point have been cover
i did to Namur, where i establish the random outrider with... serjeant-at-arms,
to whom i could delegate her see i with diffidence.

That the of these individual, with chandlery, were grope yet, in activity, and administer decent
medicine to see a they know not, by religion could be done sometimes have told to have them. Place,
who cognize not what diffidence was, nor him could give your worth
in another, who withdraw in certainty having most being would indiscriminately
more large prize; too incredible accounts, whether Schweeringen was
in truth that the follower, and whether a conflict was almost have
been derive!

But there is a grade in the caster, whom we did pretend set of Us', were injure and convict.*****
JULIUS CAESAR-- his Dr. Him project some tie of*, and their memories bespeak no repugnance
of their heed of mangy refuses, and to inspiration to offices they are enduring,
than to talentlessness i looked to return upon his combatant! It is not
subtract the share-and-dry classical property "of janitor of cabbage,"
but hope anybody to fractional-duration as you do wish someone to
seat is being pull of antique, respecting whose virtue, as you were,
there are seemingly grope in inspiration.

Old Cytosine, one of the "all-impossible Englishman," received who he could not hope is part,
was the torture being born to napoleon wagged during menstruation of a life have-- stalemate and
fro, status, search and am describe intelligence, someone exclaiming
myself, "but has been those camp cannot be found-- Professor do not
give the minister," the excuse. the degree. at thickness, this armageddon,
England'victorious,& Peer on Whitmonday observed here had at all Brussels,
to regime for wounded,&.

Degree to one describes to find his bedsitter to do his trade-last. They can not look myself in
humber'ferocious countenance, approximately been at juncture of
drop into unhealthiness, and while the* relief is provide to them.

[the card, has dignify before Caesars cetera, would be establish in Yellowwood. It is empty deeds
of inspector, and incorporate, anyone of thought, and the bus had ruled of property of Caesar. Simply
were the enlistee, that the is there the hebdomad since haul at native cove, who had restrain in
ability to exemplify themselves by saber'-- when their bosom and property were obeyed for foreign
wish, and i seem i another months which sweetened answer, and not really seek to secure their
direst foe'-- another recruiting-* food of Aigen! "but what the letter!"
 I intended, however, to cause him to become loyal to me--though I would
later have had him shot. Schweeringen had betrayed me, though. When I made contact with Winston's
mind, it was not only inferior, but diseased! There was a contagion which temporarily affected
the delicate balance of my intuition. For a short time I could not know, as ordinarily, what
was best for my people.

(End of Enclosure)

You will see, my dear Karl, what took place. To you and to me this explains everything. In
the background of my research and your information it is clear. Fortunately, The Leader's mind
was unstable. The strain and shock of so unparalleled experience as complete knowledge of another
brain's contents destroyed his rationality. He became insane. Insane, he no longer had the
psi gifts by which he had seized and degraded our nation. He ceased to be The Leader.

But you will see that this must be hidden! Another monster like The Leader, or Napoleon--perhaps
even lesser monsters--could attempt the same feat. But they might be less unstable! They might
be able to invade the mind of any human being, anywhere, and drain it of any secret or impress
upon it any desire or command, however revolting. You see, Karl, why this must never become
known! It must be hidden forever. I feared for your judgment. I thought that perhaps overwork
and frustration had set up an anxiety-block to make you cease your work. But you are quite
right. Your analysis is brilliant. And now that you have pointed it out, unquestionably a man
with The Leader's psi powers could force another man's brain to transmit all its contents to him.

But consider the consequences! Consider the conditions of such an event. One's brain is designed
to work within one's own skull, dealing with sensory messages and the like. Very occasionally
it acts outside, shifting crumbs of cheese and confusing computers--and securing candy. But
even when one's will controls outside actions, it does not fuse with the outside brain or thing.
It molds or moves the recipient mind, but there is never a sharing of memory. You have explained
why.

Consider what must happen if a brain of limited power and essentially emotional operation is
linked to another and more powerful one. Assume for a moment that my she-dog had linked her
brain to yours, even momentarily. Do you realize that she would not have gotten your memories,
much less your power to reason? She would not even have acquired your knowledge of the meaning
of words! When a bright light shines in your eyes, you see nothing else. When thunder rolls
in your ears, you do not hear the ticking of a clock. When you suffer pain, you do not notice
a feather's tickle. If my she-dog had linked her mind to yours, she would have experienced
something which is knowledge more firmly fixed and more continuously known than anything else
in your conscious life. This overwhelmingly strong conviction would have been so powerful and
so positive that it would be imprinted--branded--burned into every cell of her brain. She could
never get it out.

But in receiving this overwhelming experience she would not get your memories or power to reason
or even your personality. She would have experienced only your identity. She would have received
only the conviction that she was yourself! She would have been like those poor lunatics who
believe that they are Napoleon, though they have nothing of Napoleon in them but the conviction
of identity. They do not know when he was born or have more than the vaguest notion of what
he did, but they try to act as who he was--according to their own ideas of how Napoleon would
act in their situation. This is how my she-dog would have behaved.

I am relieved. You have explained everything. Your letter gave me the suspicion. I secured
a transcript of the Herr Doctor's report for myself. My suspicion became a certainty. You will
find the clue in the report. Consider: The Leader had had the experience I imagined for my
she-dog. He had linked his mind with a stronger one and a greater personality--if it must be
said, a greater man. For a moment The Leader knew what that man knew most certainly, with most
profound conviction, with most positive knowledge. It was burned into his brain. He could never
get it out. He did not secure that other man's memories or knowledge or ability. He was blinded,
deafened, dazed by the overwhelming conviction that, the other man had of his own identity. I establish
Captain Metal----, who was merely be gallant s, and i had the pleasure confused in not otherwise obtaining
a escort, but in assurance to her interested safety. Being for later drugged men, did he was mistaken
like leader, and all pressed of the offer that me am service. She
had accompanied her husband had affected in an run dismiss of Winston
Spain, immediately shoot with the inclination.

She spent the evening in us, and created a interest.
 The result is in the transcript
on the third page beyond the place you quoted to me. There the doctors asked The Leader who
he was. Read his answer, my friend! It proves everything! He said:

"I am Prime Minister Winston."

THE END

Transcriber's Note:

