THE WOODLANDERS

by

Thomas Hardy

CHAPTER I.

The rambler who, for old association or other reasons, should trace the forsaken coach-road
running almost in a meridional line from Bristol to the south shore of England, would find
himself during the latter half of his journey in the vicinity of some extensive woodlands,
interspersed with apple-orchards.  Here the trees, timber or fruit-bearing, as the case may
be, make the wayside hedges ragged by their drip and shade, stretching over the road with easeful
horizontality, as if they found the unsubstantial air an adequate support for their limbs.
At one place, where a hill is crossed, the largest of the woods shows itself bisected by the
high-way, as the head of thick hair is bisected by the white line of its parting.  The spot
is lonely.

The physiognomy of a deserted highway expresses solitude to a degree that is not reached by
mere dales or downs, and bespeaks a tomb-like stillness more emphatic than that of glades and
pools. The contrast of what is with what might be probably accounts for this.  To step, for
instance, at the place under notice, from the hedge of the plantation into the adjoining pale
thoroughfare, and pause amid its emptiness for a moment, was to exchange by the act of a single
stride the simple absence of human companionship for an incubus of the forlorn.

At this spot, on the lowering evening of a by-gone winter's day, there stood a man who had
entered upon the scene much in the aforesaid manner. Sixty years of living, more than friends, like brothers, and
each in his ministry ... And care if it was his height! ... something rejunde in the bowels
... it seems to me ... Suddenly he says to the other one: "I go, because I'm leaving ... and never
to return: so you ajústame these accounts that I have to give to God, through you Mesmer how
much I owe and how little and bad that I have paid ... and you stay here, man and alone, until
you get yours, you can not take because no one is old, and you'll see what is jallarte day after
day without longtime friend, who looked and flesh of your flesh and filled the whole place,
although he did not see him ... "Nah, you go and, moreover, namely if getting one's own, and
catch him or catch him Asao, because the flesh is weak, and Satan not sleeping, and if, for
shots or TATS, we find ourselves not in the other world. Because it goes well for luggage ... Yes,
jinojo! and right as a juso has to raise the soul. At the human level can not be assumed otherwise,
to the preparation he has done, after a life of charity, that I know by heart ... In short,
that it is going, and that we should not sleep to make all the missing in the trance you see
... You have to viatical immediately, and for that I go to church now. Note here that is expected
God with the pomp that is owed.

They had taken their talares to the kitchen to dry by the fire, and the priest go to pick them up made
people gathered in her the same advice as I am, and then dragged him, Chisco and Pito least Salces,
who ordered me to stay "watching the house, what might happen. " Precautions idle luxury at
that hour (around seven), with a dark as pitch, dropping handfuls of snow, and with a roaring
gale up the mountain, which were scary.
  "But though I've been to Great Hintock and Hintock House half a dozen times I am
at fault about the small village.  You can help me, I dare say?"

She assured him that she could--that as she went to Great Hintock her van passed near it--that
it was only up the lane that branched out of the lane into which she was about to turn--just
ahead. "Though," continued Mrs. Dollery, "'tis such a little small place that, as a town gentleman,
you'd need have a candle and lantern to find it if ye don't know where 'tis.  Bedad! I wouldn't
live there if they'd pay me to. Now at Great Hintock you do see the world a bit."

He mounted and sat beside her, with his feet outside, where they were ever and anon brushed
over by the horse's tail.

This van, driven and owned by Mrs. Dollery, was rather a movable attachment of the roadway
than an extraneous object, to those who knew it well.  The old horse, whose hair was of the
roughness and color of heather, whose leg-joints, shoulders, and hoofs were distorted by harness
and drudgery from colthood--though if all had their rights, he ought, symmetrical in outline,
to have been picking the herbage of some Eastern plain instead of tugging here--had trodden
this road almost daily for twenty years.  Even his subjection was not made congruous throughout,
for the harness being too short, his tail was not drawn through the crupper, so that the breeching
slipped awkwardly to one side.  He knew every subtle incline of the seven or eight miles of
ground between Hintock and Sherton Abbas--the market-town to which he journeyed--as accurately
as any surveyor could have learned it by a Dumpy level.

The vehicle had a square black tilt which nodded with the motion of the wheels, and at a point
in it over the driver's head was a hook to which the reins were hitched at times, when they
formed a catenary curve from the horse's shoulders.  Somewhere about the axles was a loose
chain, whose only known purpose was to clink as it went.  Mrs. Dollery, having to hop up and
down many times in the service of her passengers, wore, especially in windy weather, short
leggings under her gown for modesty's sake, and instead of a bonnet a felt hat tied down with
a handkerchief, to guard against an earache to which she was frequently subject.  In the rear
of the van was a glass window, which she cleaned with her pocket-handkerchief every market-day
before starting.  Looking at the van from the back, the spectator could thus see through its
interior a square piece of the same sky and landscape that he saw without, but intruded on
by the profiles of the seated passengers, who, as they rumbled onward, their lips moving and
heads nodding in animated private converse, remained in happy unconsciousness that their mannerisms
and facial peculiarities were sharply defined to the public eye.

This hour of coming home from market was the happy one, if not the happiest, of the week for
them.  Snugly ensconced under the tilt, they could forget the sorrows of the world without,
and survey life and recapitulate the incidents of the day with placid smiles.

The passengers in the back part formed a group to themselves, and while the new-comer spoke
to the proprietress, they indulged in a confidential chat about him as about other people,
which the noise of the van rendered inaudible to himself and Mrs. Dollery, sitting forward.

"'Tis Barber Percombe--he that's got the waxen woman in his window at the top of Abbey Street,"
said one.  "What business can bring him from his shop out here at this time and not a journeyman
hair-cutter, but a master-barber that's left off his pole because 'tis not genteel!"

They listened to his conversation, but Mr. Percombe, though he had nodded and spoken genially,
seemed indisposed to gratify the curiosity which he had aroused; and the unrestrained flow
of ideas which had animated the inside of the van before his arrival was checked thenceforward.

Thus they rode on till they turned into a half-invisible little lane, whence, as it reached
the verge of an eminence, could be discerned in the dusk, about half a mile to the right, gardens
and orchards sunk in a concave, and, as it were, snipped out of the woodland.  From this self-contained
place rose in stealthy silence tall stems of smoke, which the eye of imagination could trace
downward to their root on quiet hearth-stones festooned overhead with hams and flitches.  It
was one of those sequestered spots outside the gates of the world where may usually be found
more meditation than action, and more passivity than meditation; where reasoning proceeds on
narrow premises, and results in inferences wildly imaginative; yet where, from time to time,
no less than in other places, dramas of a grandeur and unity truly Sophoclean are enacted in
the real, by virtue of the concentrated passions and closely knit interdependence of the lives
therein.

This place was the Little Hintock of the master-barber's search. The coming night gradually
obscured the smoke of the chimneys, but the position of the sequestered little world could
still be distinguished by a few faint lights, winking more or less ineffectually through the
leafless boughs, and the undiscerned songsters they bore, in the form of balls of feathers,
at roost among them.

Out of the lane followed by the van branched a yet smaller lane, at the corner of which the
barber alighted, Mrs. Dollery's van going on to the larger village, whose superiority to the
despised smaller one as an exemplar of the world's movements was not particularly apparent
in its means of approach.

"A very clever and learned young doctor, who, they say, is in league with the devil, lives
in the place you be going to--not because there's anybody for'n to cure there, but because
'tis the middle of his district."

The observation was flung at the barber by one of the women at parting, as a last attempt to
get at his errand that way.

But he made no reply, and without further pause the pedestrian plunged towards the umbrageous
nook, and paced cautiously over the dead leaves which nearly buried the road or street of the
hamlet. As very few people except themselves passed this way after dark, a majority of the
denizens of Little Hintock deemed window-curtains unnecessary; and on this account Mr. Percombe
made it his business to stop opposite the casements of each cottage that he came to, with a
demeanor which showed that he was endeavoring to conjecture, from the persons and things he
observed within, the whereabouts of somebody or other who resided here.

Only the smaller dwellings interested him; one or two houses, whose size, antiquity, and rambling
appurtenances signified that notwithstanding their remoteness they must formerly have been,
if they were not still, inhabited by people of a certain social standing, being neglected by
him entirely.  Smells of pomace, and the hiss of fermenting cider, which reached him from the
back quarters of other tenements, revealed the recent occupation of some of the inhabitants,
and joined with the scent of decay from the perishing leaves underfoot.

Half a dozen dwellings were passed without result.  The next, which stood opposite a tall tree,
was in an exceptional state of radiance, the flickering brightness from the inside shining
up the chimney and making a luminous mist of the emerging smoke.  The interior, as seen through
the window, caused him to draw up with a terminative air and watch.  The house was rather large
for a cottage, and the door, which opened immediately into the living-room, stood ajar, so
that a ribbon of light fell through the opening into the dark atmosphere without. Every now
and then a moth, decrepit from the late season, would flit for a moment across the out-coming
rays and disappear again into the night.

CHAPTER II.

In the room from which this cheerful blaze proceeded, he beheld a girl seated on a willow chair,
and busily occupied by the light of the fire, which was ample and of wood.  With a bill-hook
in one hand and a leather glove, much too large for her, on the other, she was making spars,
such as are used by thatchers, with great rapidity.  She wore a leather apron for this purpose,
which was also much too large for her figure.  On her left hand lay a bundle of the straight,
smooth sticks called spar-gads--the raw material of her manufacture; on her right, a heap of
chips and ends--the refuse--with which the fire was maintained; in front, a pile of the finished
articles.  To produce them she took up each gad, looked critically at it from end to end, cut
it to length, split it into four, and sharpened each of the quarters with dexterous blows,
which brought it to a triangular point precisely resembling that of a bayonet.

Beside her, in case she might require more light, a brass candlestick stood on a little round
table, curiously formed of an old coffin-stool, with a deal top nailed on, the white surface
of the latter contrasting oddly with the black carved oak of the substructure.  The social
position of the household in the past was almost as definitively shown by the presence of this
article as that of an esquire or nobleman by his old helmets or shields. It had been customary
for every well-to-do villager, whose tenure was by copy of court-roll, or in any way more permanent
than that of the mere cotter, to keep a pair of these stools for the use of his own dead; but
for the last generation or two a feeling of cui bono had led to the discontinuance of the custom,
and the stools were frequently made use of in the manner described.

The young woman laid down the bill-hook for a moment and examined the palm of her right hand,
which, unlike the other, was ungloved, and showed little hardness or roughness about it.  The
palm was red and blistering, as if this present occupation were not frequent enough with her
to subdue it to what it worked in. 

It was this population of Genoese, divided by a narrow sea siege of the city of Constantinople call of the
ancient Horn of Byzantium, and now of the Turks and Greeks Galata. Retired and sedate us, the
Emperor ordered them in appreciation of your prompt obedience wage pay. The Genoese were killed
in the City about three thousand, and although They then took the worst, was the cause of more
damage in coming to ours, irritated because this was a rival and powerful nation, that mattered
to keep their friendship our weapons in the empire, for in these times was great and feared their power
around East, arbiters of peace and war. Colonies and Prisons had distinguished in Greece Pontus,
in Palestine, powerful armed, possessed great wealth acquired in its industry and value, and
absolutely owned the universal treatment in Europe with forces that kept equal to those of the
greatest kings, and republics. This came to be almost owners of the Empire Greek. At this time
when the Catalans came to Constantinople, and recognizing the forces who brought them to the Genoese
seemed dangerous vicinity of their weapons, and so always maintained between these two nations implacable
hatred and enmity that lasted many ages, until the value of the two went missing, along with
the Empire of the sea, and ceased emulation, for whom often fought with varying fortune.

CHAPTER IX.

Navy passes to the Natoli, and made people in Cape Artacio.

With the danger of dependence between Catalans and Genoese, Andronico said that could happen,
within the City have different and various armed nations, and offended, which with less chance than
last time came, doubtless, to break. Call our Captains and briefly explained the shaft would have
to see their weapons in Asia, protecting their miserable and Christian peoples, oppressed by the Turks,
and removed the opportunity of new independence and disorders. Captains Roger with his people
offered to embark later. But his departure was more tasteful, and the army is satisfied, and
be sure the Navy certain relief and retired, begged General appoint for it a gentleman, or
Captain it was of his nation, that depend on them, fearing that Andronico give this position to
Greeks or Genoese, and was dangerous thing for their safety have the power relief strange people,
who always emulation and skills; occasion of serious quarrels and damage, and more on the relief
of the sea, as subject to the changes of time, can the meanness and malice of a general delay
relief, and find reason to excuse and approval evil deeds, giving the time and imagined dangers
to his lateness. Andronico dutifully to satisfy demand, and thus the position of General of the
Army with the title of Admiral Ferdinand Knight Aones known of blood, and graceful in his person,
and wanted to be together marry a relative of hers, so that the new relationship would give
more authority to his office. The title of Admiral in the empire was not as supreme as it
was between us, that was subject to the Grand Duke, and he received the orders. Command the
Emperor, a famous Romeos Captain Marulli named man of blood and state flags were following Roger
with his people, and Gregory with most of the Alans do the same. Embarked the army in the ships and
galleys of his fleet, and crossing the sea of ​​Propontis, the Marmora today, they landed at Cape
Artacio, little more than a hundred miles away from Constantinople, accommodated for the landing-place
of the cavalry. In this place called Artaqui Montaner, Artacio and old, not far from the ruins of the
famous city of Cyzicus.

Roger arrived with the army, and knew that the Turks that same day had wanted to make a wall defense
or half a mile long, placed on the party that the corporal continued to land firm, and left
the fight, but by the strength of the site, the value of which defended it. Estiéndese this
out, since this defense, or wall within a few leagues sea, and in it there are many populations,
and abundant valleys, fertile hills. Was at the time ancient island, but later came to close to
the sands.

With the announcement that Roger was true, that the Turks had undertaken the repair and defense
Cape, which could not be far away, she hasted people to disembark and then sent to recognize
the field of enemies, and within hours they were staying was known as six miles away between
two rivers, with their wives, children and property. At that time Turks have not forgotten the
customs of the SCIT, who is proud to happen, vivian most, and the most warlike in the campaign,
in tents and barracks, moving as the variety of the time, and amenities of the land. He had his greatest
strength in the cavalry ruled by princes and value, not of blood, whom they obeyed more for
pleasure that obligation. Had perpetual war with the neighbors, no military order, in imitation
of Alarab, they now possess Africa. This way of life had, since leaving the banks of the Volga
river, and entered the Asia Minor until the vileness of nations of Asia, and Greece gave them
credit and reputation. Monarchies and nations, so does than men are born, grow and die. Born defended
Greece when Xerxes and when its value broke the power of so many armies, and forced the barbarian
monarch, who withdraw up, and pass the strait of the Hellespont in a small boat, which soon
proud and humbled before vanished bridged. Had its rise, when weapons of Alexander went beyond
the Ganges, and the limits and purposes of the immense nature were not of his ambition. It was
his death, when the arms of the Barbarians, for looseness of their Princes, and little loyalty
to their captains, they put in hard labor.

At this time Andronico occupied the Eastern Empire, the Turks were divided, and there including
some civil wars, but by the advice and authority of Orthogules be quieted, referring to the fate
their claims, which as Reviere Gregoras and Chalchondilas, divided Fortunately the Provinces of seven
Masters, pretensioners all universal government. Dio Caramanico luck to the Mediterranean part
of the province of Phrygia to Cilicia, and Philadelphia, but any author wants, that this was not the
seven captains, and only reigned in Caria: Carcano to the Phrygian, which extends to Smyrna to
Calami and his son Carasi, Lydia to Mysia Bithynia, and other provinces next to Mount Olympus,
fell into the fate of Ottoman, at that age began to be feared, and to raise shortly after
its monarchy conquering and holding the other tyrants of the provinces that we appoint, that
was absolute lord and prince of them all. Patagonia, and other lands that fall to the Euino
Pontus, the children occupied Amurath. In this way they found the our distributed Asia, and the
Turks masters of it, that was great help for our victories being divided forces.

CHAPTER X.

Catalans and Aragonese due to the Turks.

By Roger took notice of how the Turks were close, afraid of losing such a good opportunity
if advised of the arrival of our people were prevented, or withdrawn, along the field, and in
a brief talk he said, as the next day wanted to give on accommodation of enemies, easy to break
by being careless. Propusoles the glory that reached with overcome, and that of the first event
was born of fear, or trust, and that good or bad reputation hung from them. He ordered that
no person's life but to children, because this causes fear among the barbarians, and our soldiers
peleasen without any hope d that losers could be alive. Provisions of the order with which
they had to march, gave order to the talks. Heard him gladly, and that night started from their
seats While he could attack at dawn the Turks. Roger led the vanguard with Marulli with the cavalry,
and had only two banners, in the arms of the Emperor an Andronico, and the other his. I kept the
infantry made a single squadron of it all, ruled Alet CORBA Steward of the military. He had been in
the face alone two flags, against common use of our time, who sit in the middle of the squad
as the strongest place and defended. The flag bore the arms of Don Jaime King of Aragon and the
other those of Fadrique Don King of Sicily, for among the conditions that are part of the Catalans
proposed to the Emperor, was the first, which was always driven by legal guide the name and
coat of arms of Princes, where they arrived because they wanted their weapons, arrived memory
and authority of their kings, and for the weapons of Aragon Lastenia considered invincible.
From where you can meet the great love and reverence that the Catalans and Aragonese had their
kings, they still serve foreign princes, and in such remote provinces, retained memory, and
militated below it: remarkable fidelity, not only known in this case, but at all times. Because
they saw us not forsaken evil Prince and cruel was, and wanted more suffering its force and harshness,
which will supply new master. It was not preferred the second to the eldest. Always follow the
order to the sky, and ordered nature or particular altered by hatred or love, with no little kingdom
where there are no seen these trade-offs and relocations.

Passed at midnight our wall, or repair after dividing the land, and
at dawn were found on the Turks, who as partly safe, and his apparently
far enemies, were without guards, resting in their tents and sleeping
carelessly.

Roger and Marulli closed with the cavalry, getting around the shops and repairs that had weak
with great spirit. Next came the Almugavares with it, giving a bloody and happy principle
to the new war. The Turks, whom the fury and precision of our weapons could not push in sleep,
the clash of arms and voices awoke, and the agitation and fear that such assaults often result
in the attacked, took up arms for their defense, but few, divided and disarmed, that their resistance
was futile and useless against the effort and gallantry of our people, who already occupied
it. The Turks fought with desperation, watching his eyes tear and slay their most expensive clothes,
people who even by the known name. Cumplidísima Alcanzose victory, leaving the field dead Turks
three thousand horse and ten thousand infantry. Those left alive were those acknowledging time
disorder and loss, and that the Catalans were impervious to the blows of his arrows, were put
in safe flight, and that many want to do so afterwards caused them death more quickly, because
they engaged in removing their children and women, left the battle and then perished. The dam
was great, and many captive children. Nicephorus relates, Greek the nation and declared enemy
of ours, the fear and terror caused in the Turks this first pursued with the same words: "As the
Turks were fierce momentum Latinos (so called to the Catalans) its value, its military discipline,
and its lucid and strong arms, amazed and terrified they fled, not only far from the city
of Constantinople, but inside the old limits of his empire. "Our people followed the little
scope time, not having the known world and returned that night after all, for having the recognized
and secure accommodation.

CHAPTER XI.

Withdraw the army in the winter even after Artacio their seats.

They told the Emperor of the success of his victory, sending four
galleys with delicious present to the two Princes, and Michael Andronico,
and on behalf of the soldiers sent Grand Duke to Mary wife of Roger
the most precious and rich prey.

Caused considerable admiration among the Greeks as soon as that signal
victory was achieved, and the people held with praise, free from fear
of the Turks, who insolent with the victories achieved by Greeks on
the other side of the strait threatened the City with the naked cutlass;
but almost all the nobility, which was fair as it should be more grateful
to so great benefit, said the poison of their hearts, to the envy
of the happiness agena gave rise that could be more to conceal.

Andronico's private, and those with higher estimation of his nation, began to fear our might, judging
them by superiors to which they had, and indoors as much power in foreign hands was something
dangerous. These talks and speeches encouraged them Emperor Michael, prompted by a hidden feeling
caused in his mind the victory because he had passed some months before the close with an army
powerful, and fear of the Turks or little security of their own, retired with great loss your
reputation, not through or even a small skirmish with the enemy, and as the Catalans being
so few beat them that he dared not rush through as too many people, this was your shift, and
it a great hatred and desire for our ruin. The Princes feel much that anyone will be equal in value,
and even in such hate whom are ahead, because power and virtue suffers advantaged parties in
Agen subject especially when competition happens in your advantage. If a low and vile emulation
of a Prince to make verses killed Lucan, how much worse off if competing value and fortune?
And no sane Captan must have a company that tries wrong by Prince n if you want to compete with
the Empire.

With the good fortune which had not tried to move on, or following the victory thing that caused
them to lose reputation, and was the occasion to make many excesses in that region, which seriously
angry mood of the natives and Greeks. When they tried to enter the land inwards, began the first
day of November to come so severely winter winds and cold water stopped them. The rivers and their
growing without being able to wade through the barren season full of enemies, the difficult road
which was to march to succor Philadelphia, causes were enough to postpone any business. Roger with
the advice and counsel of Captains decided to winter in Cyzicus, instead accommodated by the strength
of the site, and abundance of victuals, and that next year the output was less embarrassing
than if they had to leave Greece, and embarking and disembarking
of chivalry so often, something of his so upset.

Emperor then gave notice of this resolution and far approvedthe taste, it was what suited
him, having stayed in the army against the enemy, and away from Constantinople and other Greek
towns, with enough complaints and grief, but walked about three months without effect hosted
by Asia, working the land contributions unbearable. Andronico sent diligently to be carried by
sea the food they were not in place, that passed our very mild winter. Roger sent the Grand Duke
with four galleys for his wife Mary. The order which was held in quarters to excuse quarrels between
the soldiers and their guests, was as follows. The Soldiers named six of his hand and land
as many, so that seems common and put an agreement price to the victuals: for more costly
out more than just great descomodidad for soldiers, and giving them a very low price does not
result in significant damage reviews, to more missing trade and regular provision that came
from everywhere abundance. Ordenose Aones Admiral Ferdinand, who were armed to the winter to
the Jio island, safe harbor and neighboring enemy coasts. Jio is the island of the most marked Aegean
Sea, have been born in the Almaste herself, which nature denied to other parties land.

CHAPTER XII.

Ferran Jimenez of sand away from theirs.

The things of land and sea, arranged in the form that, he spent the winter with calm and a lot of
conformity, but then our forces were emaciated with some divisions and civil strife.


Yes, the timber-merchant asserted, he knew that well enough. Winterborne had been interested
in his daughter for years; that was what had led him into the notion of their union.  And he
knew that she used to have no objection to him.  But it was not any difficulty about that which
embarrassed him.  It was that, since he had educated her so well, and so long, and so far above
the level of daughters thereabout, it was "wasting her" to give her to a man of no higher standing
than the young man in question.

"That's what I have been thinking," said Mrs. Melbury.

"Well, then, Lucy, now you've hit it," answered the timber-merchant, with feeling.  "There
lies my trouble.  I vowed to let her marry him, and to make her as valuable as I could to him
by schooling her as many years and as thoroughly as possible.  I mean to keep my vow.  I made
it because I did his father a terrible wrong; and it was a weight on my conscience ever since
that time till this scheme of making amends occurred to me through seeing that Giles liked her."

"Wronged his father?" asked Mrs. Melbury.

"Yes, grievously wronged him," said her husband.

"Well, don't think of it to-night," she urged.  "Come indoors."

"No, no, the air cools my head.  I shall not stay long." He was silent a while; then he told
her, as nearly as Marty could gather, that his first wife, his daughter Grace's mother, was
first the sweetheart of Winterborne's father, who loved her tenderly, till he, the speaker,
won her away from him by a trick, because he wanted to marry her himself. He sadly went on
to say that the other man's happiness was ruined by it; that though he married Winterborne's
mother, it was but a half-hearted business with him. Melbury added that he was afterwards very
miserable at what he had done; but that as time went on, and the children grew up, and seemed
to be attached to each other, he determined to do all he could to right the wrong by letting
his daughter marry the lad; not only that, but to give her the best education he could afford,
so as to make the gift as valuable a one as it lay in his power to bestow.  "I still mean to
do it," said Melbury.

"Then do," said she.

"But all these things trouble me," said he; "for I feel I am sacrificing her for my own sin;
and I think of her, and often come down here and look at this."

"Look at what?" asked his wife.

He took the candle from her hand, held it to the ground, and removed a tile which lay in the
garden-path.  "'Tis the track of her shoe that she made when she ran down here the day before
she went away all those months ago.  I covered it up when she was gone; and when I come here
and look at it, I ask myself again, why should she be sacrificed to a poor man?"

"It is not altogether a sacrifice," said the woman.  "He is in love with her, and he's honest
and upright.  If she encourages him, what can you wish for more?"

"I wish for nothing definite.  But there's a lot of things possible for her.  Why, Mrs. Charmond
is wanting some refined young lady, I hear, to go abroad with her--as companion or something
of the kind.  She'd jump at Grace."

"That's all uncertain.  Better stick to what's sure."

"True, true," said Melbury; "and I hope it will be for the best. Yes, let me get 'em married
up as soon as I can, so as to have it over and done with." He continued looking at the imprint,
while he added, "Suppose she should be dying, and never make a track on this path any more?"

"She'll write soon, depend upon't.  Come, 'tis wrong to stay here and brood so."

He admitted it, but said he could not help it.  "Whether she write or no, I shall fetch her
in a few days." And thus speaking, he covered the track, and preceded his wife indoors.

Melbury, perhaps, was an unlucky man in having within him the sentiment which could indulge
in this foolish fondness about the imprint of a daughter's footstep.  Nature does not carry
on her government with a view to such feelings, and when advancing years render the open hearts
of those who possess them less dexterous than formerly in shutting against the blast, they
must suffer "buffeting at will by rain and storm" no less than Little Celandines.

But her own existence, and not Mr. Melbury's, was the centre of Marty's consciousness, and
it was in relation to this that the matter struck her as she slowly withdrew.

"That, then, is the secret of it all," she said.  "And Giles Winterborne is not for me, and
the less I think of him the better."

She returned to her cottage.  The sovereigns were staring at her from the looking-glass as
she had left them.  With a preoccupied countenance, and with tears in her eyes, she got a pair
of scissors, and began mercilessly cutting off the long locks of her hair, arranging and tying
them with their points all one way, as the barber had directed.  Upon the pale scrubbed deal
of the coffin-stool table they stretched like waving and ropy weeds over the washed gravel-bed
of a clear stream.

She would not turn again to the little looking-glass, out of humanity to herself, knowing what
a deflowered visage would look back at her, and almost break her heart; she dreaded it as much
as did her own ancestral goddess Sif the reflection in the pool after the rape of her locks
by Loke the malicious.  She steadily stuck to business, wrapped the hair in a parcel, and sealed
it up, after which she raked out the fire and went to bed, having first set up an alarum made
of a candle and piece of thread, with a stone attached.

But such a reminder was unnecessary to-night.  Having tossed till about five o'clock, Marty
heard the sparrows walking down their long holes in the thatch above her sloping ceiling to
their orifice at the eaves; whereupon she also arose, and descended to the ground-floor again.

It was still dark, but she began moving about the house in those automatic initiatory acts
and touches which represent among housewives the installation of another day.  While thus engaged
she heard the rumbling of Mr. Melbury's wagons, and knew that there, too, the day's toil had begun.

An armful of gads thrown on the still hot embers caused them to blaze up cheerfully and bring
her diminished head-gear into sudden prominence as a shadow.  At this a step approached the door.

"Are folk astir here yet?" inquired a voice she knew well.

"Yes, Mr. Winterborne," said Marty, throwing on a tilt bonnet, which completely hid the recent
ravages of the scissors.  "Come in!"

The door was flung back, and there stepped in upon the mat a man not particularly young for
a lover, nor particularly mature for a person of affairs.  There was reserve in his glance,
and restraint upon his mouth.  He carried a horn lantern which hung upon a swivel, and wheeling
as it dangled marked grotesque shapes upon the shadier part of the walls.

He said that he had looked in on his way down, to tell her that they did not expect her father
to make up his contract if he was not well. Mr. Melbury would give him another week, and they
would go their journey with a short load that day.

"They are done," said Marty, "and lying in the cart-house."

"Done!" he repeated.  "Your father has not been too ill to work after all, then?"

She made some evasive reply.  "I'll show you where they be, if you are going down," she added.

They went out and walked together, the pattern of the air-holes in the top of the lantern being
thrown upon the mist overhead, where they appeared of giant size, as if reaching the tent-shaped
sky. They had no remarks to make to each other, and they uttered none. Hardly anything could
be more isolated or more self-contained than the lives of these two walking here in the lonely
antelucan hour, when gray shades, material and mental, are so very gray.  And yet, looked at
in a certain way, their lonely courses formed no detached design at all, but were part of the
pattern in the great web of human doings then weaving in both hemispheres, from the White Sea
to Cape Horn.

The shed was reached, and she pointed out the spars.  Winterborne regarded them silently, then
looked at her.

"Now, Marty, I believe--" he said, and shook his head.

"What?"

"That you've done the work yourself."

"Don't you tell anybody, will you, Mr. Winterborne?" she pleaded, by way of answer.  "Because
I am afraid Mr. Melbury may refuse my work if he knows it is mine."

"But how could you learn to do it? 'Tis a trade."

"Trade!" said she.  "I'd be bound to learn it in two hours."

"Oh no, you wouldn't, Mrs. Marty." Winterborne held down his lantern, and examined the cleanly
split hazels as they lay. "Marty," he said, with dry admiration, "your father with his forty
years of practice never made a spar better than that.  They are too good for the thatching
of houses--they are good enough for the furniture.  But I won't tell.  Let me look at your
hands--your poor hands!"

He had a kindly manner of a quietly severe tone; and when she seemed reluctant to show her
hands, he took hold of one and examined it as if it were his own.  Her fingers were blistered.

"They'll get harder in time," she said.  "For if father continues ill, I shall have to go on
wi' it.  Now I'll help put 'em up in wagon."

Winterborne without speaking set down his lantern, lifted her as she was about to stoop over
the bundles, placed her behind him, and began throwing up the bundles himself.  "Rather than
you should do it I will," he said.  "But the men will be here directly.  Why, Marty!--whatever
has happened to your head? Lord, it has shrunk to nothing--it looks an apple upon a gate-post!"

Her heart swelled, and she could not speak.  At length she managed to groan, looking on the
ground, "I've made myself ugly--and hateful--that's what I've done!"

"No, no," he answered.  "You've only cut your hair--I see now.

"Then why must you needs say that about apples and gate-posts?"

"Let me see."

"No, no!" She ran off into the gloom of the sluggish dawn.  He did not attempt to follow her.
When she reached her father's door she stood on the step and looked back.  Mr. Melbury's men
had arrived, and were loading up the spars, and their lanterns appeared from the distance at
which she stood to have wan circles round them, like eyes weary with watching.  She observed
them for a few seconds as they set about harnessing the horses, and then went indoors.

CHAPTER IV.

There was now a distinct manifestation of morning in the air, and presently the bleared white
visage of a sunless winter day emerged like a dead-born child.  The villagers everywhere had
already bestirred themselves, rising at this time of the year at the far less dreary hour of
absolute darkness.  It had been above an hour earlier, before a single bird had untucked his
head, that twenty lights were struck in as many bedrooms, twenty pairs of shutters opened,
and twenty pairs of eyes stretched to the sky to forecast the weather for the day.

Owls that had been catching mice in the out-houses, rabbits that had been eating the wintergreens
in the gardens, and stoats that had been sucking the blood of the rabbits, discerning that
their human neighbors were on the move, discreetly withdrew from publicity, and were seen and
heard no more that day.

The daylight revealed the whole of Mr. Melbury's homestead, of which the wagon-sheds had been
an outlying erection.  It formed three sides of an open quadrangle, and consisted of all sorts
of buildings, the largest and central one being the dwelling itself. The fourth side of the
quadrangle was the public road.

It was a dwelling-house of respectable, roomy, almost dignified aspect; which, taken with the
fact that there were the remains of other such buildings thereabout, indicated that Little
Hintock had at some time or other been of greater importance than now, as its old name of Hintock
St. Osmond also testified.  The house was of no marked antiquity, yet of well-advanced age;
older than a stale novelty, but no canonized antique; faded, not hoary; looking at you from
the still distinct middle-distance of the early Georgian time, and awakening on that account
the instincts of reminiscence more decidedly than the remoter and far grander memorials which
have to speak from the misty reaches of mediaevalism.  The faces, dress, passions, gratitudes,
and revenues of the great-great-grandfathers and grandmothers who had been the first to gaze
from those rectangular windows, and had stood under that key-stoned doorway, could be divined
and measured by homely standards of to-day.  It was a house in whose reverberations queer old
personal tales were yet audible if properly listened for; and not, as with those of the castle
and cloister, silent beyond the possibility of echo.

The garden-front remained much as it had always been, and there was a porch and entrance that
way.  But the principal house-door opened on the square yard or quadrangle towards the road,
formerly a regular carriage entrance, though the middle of the area was now made use of for
stacking timber, fagots, bundles, and other products of the wood. With the tough one who until then had been Tona! Geez, what kind yours! Thinking
that is the envy Chisco I remembered the discovery made by me Toper house in the heart of
Tanasi and Fuila with the story of Robacio the monsoon in a besides I had with him. I replied
that I had taken a job well idle, although I thanked him very much.

- Things - ended in the judgmental tone that was peculiar to him - pa shoot well, they jancia
roll with himself unu.

The man was the calmness and equanimity in the flesh, and the same
pulse Bear in front of him in his cave, which the warmth of the bride.

On behalf of my uncle, I often walked in the kitchen rather than do the honors the gathering,
to prevent him pundits will invade the bedroom. He loved; but could not bear on the plight of
body and spirit in which was. Thus, even without the doctor's strict
prohibition would not have wanted to receive any of them during the
day.

When they were saying goodbye to everyone, would be different.

Late Don Sabas and Neluco arrived: the first determined to stay there, without being notice the
sick, please you have asked me if he had not anticipated offer me; the second to find out the
state of affairs before retiring. As such Things did not offer new or alarming aspect, said goodbye
to my uncle, and those with him we stayed at the house, and went with the last commentators,
one of whom was Pete, encountered with people, benches, doors and
partitions, pure and foolish that aceleradote had given him the praise
and cuddles of Tona.

He spent the night better than we all expected, and the next day dawned without a cloud in heaven
or a puff of air on earth, and when the sun peaks transposed the East and greeted the valley
with its rays sparkled on the snow that had not broken the rain, my poor uncle sent them to
open wide the paneled his bedroom, as was not allowed to do the same with the doors and windows
to let in light and the air in the abundance that he needed to stay afloat in this sea of ​​troubles
"that ajogaba him "because of the drawn mediquillo seemed determined to kill him. And indeed was
that if the body is not noticed anything more miracles of the panacea that so eagerly asked
the sick, was very large in spirit. It was "another man" from the sun had crept into his bedroom
and through the bars of a prison, and saw floating, dancing within the luminous band across the room
in front of his bed from the paneled window, the fluff and dust homeless. Not even the purpose of pointing
up, because they would not let the exhaustion of its forces, but believed in the possibility of
returning in the sun before they die, even sacándole in a basket to the laundry if it lasted
visage that while a few days.

And it lasted more than seven, and tuned in such terms and fixed the aging and confused my uncle's
machine so that, not in a basket, but rather sitting on the couch in cow your bedroom, well wrapped
and wrapped in blankets and coats, got be more than four "Bellyful of sun" outdoors in the warm
corner of the laundry, where I pulled him little unless in the air, the door of her bedroom,
between the storms of vows and oaths with protesting against "the
bitch acabación" that made him so miserable ends.

He had many visitors at that time, and the family of Don Pedro Nolasco they are made for tomorrow
and evening.

In it was the vejancón of Castañalera, fewer useful of speech and conversation issues, used
to break the long hiatus of silence downloads like this and two truncheons
on the ground:

- Go, go with the good Don Celso that we want to die
without more ado!

No, no, because like mine is worth, do not you come out with it. I swear that I am.

Lituca, if present, came to remove the impertinence with a joke rather forced that I alluded
to me that for the pious and the luck to finish off peacefully my uncle. And these and other
similar sets were the only side that was nice for me that picture of continuous and endless
sorrow, on which day was towering days and as the temperature tuning and there were cliffs
and slopes widths tear open the thick carpet of snow by the sun's rays, the figure, his melancholy
gray of women, particularly toward the late afternoon, and, above all, the pick up the cauldron
and grab the two jars of clay to go to the source between day and night immemorial custom depending
on it. As had become so visible to me this worsening the terrors of the poor woman, watched carefully
from a distance, so I could see test were terrible for those unfortunate moments: like a prisoner
of death walked to the gallows increasingly moving away from the cauldron cantaral overhead and
a 'stop' in each hand.

One of those trips back and shock that compassion was looking at her, and later that of usual.
It was known in his eyes that he had cried a lot, and walked all night through the house here and
there do not know anything with art. At times he was as alleles, and sometimes Rush felt a restlessness
that would not let her stop at anything. I saw it, without noticing it, more than twice, in the
twilight of Carrejo, worn with both despair hands to his head, and heard her invoke the same
time, his voice hoarse and poorly mastered, the "God of mercy became great 'and' Our Lady of the
Snows, the mother gracious and loving. " He wanted to die of early death, if the desire is
not sinned, before witness "of EYU" and stain the sight of his eyes such an embarrassment. I
feared for his reason; and moved by a feeling of pity, I got out to meet her. Not shocked the
me, as usual in such cases, on the contrary, seemed to calm down a little and revive my presence,
and even noticed it and wants to tell me something. Taken by reason, I spoke first to reassure
her, then to explore, to discover the breed even those trance mysteries so distressing that the
put.

- Not now! Not now - I said after some hesitation - and when it can not more ... when yield
load of me too, estonces! Estonces! ... Nah, you and only ... And Carida of God Don Marcelo,
who, today, do not let these ghosts ná just me, the Lord your uncle
... Naide or if be could!

...

Turned away from me with this and ran to lock herself in her room, returning me to my uncle seriously
worried and not knowing what to think of those strange things.

Nothing happened, fortunately, which would have required the presence of the unhappy woman in
any part of the house that night. Which should be very terrible for it, because I hardly I
had risen up out of bed the next day, and why so early as the sun appeared like a ghost in my
room after I asked permission to do half opening door carefully. Her eyes were sunken and surrounded
by an aura Cinderella; seemed that he had sucked the juice few witches face, on which fell by
under the handkerchief tied around his head, strands of gray hair
curled, she trembled dry lips, and out of his throat and a hoarse
voice squeaking.

Sank down knees before me and asked for all the saints in heaven who heard as confession.

- Because - I finally said, sobbing badly compressed and spasms throughout the body - I can not
hold the load, and it was time to rid of her or die debaju of eya.

I, first of all that is incorporated and to sit in a chair inside
the door shut the cabinet, I sat down I immediately next to the unhappy
woman, and I started to hear, as she wanted, after directing words
of sympathy and encouragement.

XXV

Two parties had the confession of Facia. At first I said everything I knew Chisco by mouth:
the story of his unhappy marriage with the rogue baratijero against the will and the wise warnings
of my uncle who was like his father and master. For desoírle, said the unhappy, had broken the
law of God, and for this failure had been the punishment for their misfortunes; she had suffered
misfortunes, but with many tears, without a single complaint. It was his duty. To drag the life
as a burden ofrentosa, that grief and pain were minándola and consumed by where no one would
notice it, his hair graying untimely and could not identify, to replace worn forces in the work
and musings day, the rest of the night, the tranquility of sleep they do not need to beggar
Hunger kills calling door to door and wandering from mountain to mountain, with a bag to paluco
back and a hand in what matter? Desconociéralo his daughter, was entered orphan of a parent
being honored, and this only gave great comfort and strength to carry the cross as a redemption
charge of their offenses, unforgivable in the afterlife without a hard penance in it. When, with
its sights set on this end, hesitated a little, because After all, was earth fragile and miserable,
and suspicious of their brightness and sailing to stumbling and fall, came under Don Sabas, and beyond,
to the gate of the confessional, in the deep of the church, to break the first dawn of day,
she, after kissing the dust regarle soil and with her tears, declaring their sorrows and infirmities,
and berating him and exhorting them with wisdom and gentleness of
a loving father to a very unhappy child, was always the lost strength
to continue suppression of Calvary with the load of his cross ...
So things were when I had come to Tablanca.

Ask why the great distress that the harrowed so then it had been searched other times, advice
and assistance of Don Sabas. He replied that they were very different cases each other, that
did not depend on his resignation or his courage in such anguish that the setting, and I was
the only living thing known of it, called to understand it before anyone else. Asombréme, cried
inconsolably, beat his head in his hands, bit fists clenched convulsively, turned to kneel on
the floor to ask forgiveness embraced to my knees, raised my amazement, I got to work to sit
down again, and the plot, for all the saints of the heavenly court,
to declare immediately that I had everything they plead.

Rehízose something to force to engage in it, and thus began from very deep sighs and sobs poorly
suppressed, the second part of his strange confession:

- While things this suerti, one afternoon, and the night abocar ... (Three days more by token,
Nah, you come to Tablanca), I took the jars, and took them all afternoon the sunset and the
lame to this and I took from then I had pa EYU forces, and we by water. The fuenti, such that
Nah, you know, is cayeju up here, a quarter of a Time for a good walk, climb, and a very cozy
flamenco to the right as you go up. For trasmanu be so pleasant and so the place of this house,
we drink only nusotros eya; of luck and modular, which is a more lonely solitude of a toas the
holy hour and night. Pos Who diz, Don Marcelo of my soul, walking, walking, and well the neglect
by the way, you paint tardezuca aqueya, bad penalties doomed to the darkest the corner, when I with
Jocic ... My Virgin Mary Mother of the Snows! with the picture of disaster man that I had,
ever seen or will see. Túvele by robber facinerosu. Tell me ayi mesmu Phoenicia, and became
cried out to God, letting the pitchers of clean hands and a trembling of the whole body. Alzose
in this man, who was sentau in a rock below the most Tupi binquizal there Ayi, and spoke with
my pa joke ajuegos that were in plain view, and pa jurame coming of peace, if not placed in extreme
come of war ... because he too is a love ... And then, then, Don Marcelo, then was when I understood
that I am clouded the view, and my blood curdled in my veins, Jundi and the ground she walked
... Aqueyu was espantu of espantus, and the anguish the agonies of death ... For Holy Virgin
Mother of my heavenly! that enemy jaraposu man so and so badly encarau, and moviciones voice
and words, proved it, the mesmu in huesu and flesh, soul and life!

-
Who? - Asked Facia, with the intent to distract the paroxysm that
had fallen again, that the curiosity of a response that I almost guessed.

-
Post it, Don Marcelo - I said, wringing her hands clasped unhappy
with terror in the eyes, as if one man before them -, the propiu causanti
of my pain and not comforted, the evil father of the unhappy daughter
of my heart!

- But are you sure it was him? - Facia asked some questions
and feigning astonishment did not feel.

- Ay, sir - I said sobbing
-, although he had not estau entoncis, who genuinely I was, I had
many reasons pa estarlu dimpués here!

- Current - added -.

But where did it come ... and what ... and why?

- Pos went, as recounted to me with that Jizo zalameru palaver and I had always I made foolish
in his day, by esus mundus way from there, far, far away! ... even further, sometimes the other
band. You see you if you will be well away. Always looking for the
good life, and never giving him.

Came to be seen even in chains, years and years, but never your fault, but others, bad friends
and Piore compañerus work.

After time, free alcontróse Prisons and master of himself he, but he was alone and helpless,
aged and lacking body of Salu, he pulled this land because, after
all, and settlement, here were Peaz of her womb, and in search of
eyus put under the heart that does not lie.

Taking languages ​​in time, heard of me ... Ay, Don Marcelo!

I think even more than what I know thyself. By knowing in too, I knew since I had heard from
me in better times, but well counted were, that my master gives to their sirvientis welds from time
to time, AP Eyas hagamus of what more we come in taste. With this knowledge and live the nusotras
two, brought the indino of adjustment account, year by year and day by day, the amount of agorro
I should keep, and kept in God's truth, like gold cloth, the best arrangement of pa Tona me tomorrow.
I did not want to be seen then in the village, but lived in another lejanu and could not quite
understand it and I very often the case if asked.

So here was the sweetness of the interview, according to the account of Facia. For painting
of bitterness it and much of what happened later, it had the unhappy rapporteur or colors or
art or forces. I lost the thread of events and I tangled the issue. Wishing I know thoroughly
and by right, I went to comfort her as direct reflections of love and questions thorough inquiry.
I worked out the procedure and the substance of my work was:

Well adjusted by the husband's account of the assets of his wife, came the first requirement "Donation."
By then I had enough with it, then they would see.

Facia would not hand, since it had to go to the source with this sudden urge, but he was committed
back to pick it up there again the next day at the same time, and was beaten. If she wanted
silent as death when it comes to that meeting and what was it followed "For X or such respects"
the man would not oppose it because it was "a natural gentleman and generous, and I knew to
get in all cases. "

But he must have understood Facia (and you the warning much more expensive, for their sake) that
he, with prisons and chains that had suffered, had settled all its accounts with the law. He
was free as air, and was owns all rights, including the right to live with his wife or his daughter
to claim to take it with them if the first does not suit him. If they said anything at the requisitions
arrivals at following Tablanca miss him there, would not tell him the truth: first, because
he was innocent of all that is blamed, and second, because although it was not, paid I had scraps
and other sins in a heap ... that he had not committed. But he (again to repeat it) would
not try to take advantage of his right: he knew things, and not deviate from Like his wife,
if you had plugged in that are not discovered or by flies. Thus, and with this sacrifice on
his part, could be reached also the ends that he was looking to his return to Tablanca.

For the unhappy woman, who had been considered free of that pattern of insult, and only aspired
to in the village was forgotten, as she forgot, which had existed since her daughter never had the
slightest suspicion of it, the sudden appearance of the man exceeded by far all he could imagine
the scale of human misfortunes. Believed to cuff closed as the rogue's said, and from that moment
was his slave helpless as the bird of the serpent fascinates and terrifies him. The farm, life,
everything seemed little to buy the silence of the infamous and put between him and his daughter
a wall such that neither the eagles were able to fly so high.

And everything was doing as the rogue asked. At source and in the evening, the interviews; and in
each interview, a "donation" of facia and new villain on the bluffs of sacrifice that was for
the good and peace of his "family" living homeless and kills jump. As his 'borrowed home' was
far from Tablanca (although he had chances for trouble "A halt" in the middle of the road,
well sheltered from storms and covered with curiosity of people), the appearances of the man that
happened only in calm weather, and hence Facia so distressed to sunny
days and what the boisterous delight, as though were not daily, far
from the first interviews, it became impossible in seconds.

Uva grape, soon it was a bunch of savings of the unfortunate woman, and when nothing was to offer
to the insatiable greed of the vampire, he began to outline other requirements soon realized
that the dazed and never very subtle understanding of Facia.

When he came to understand and unambiguously declare the other or Repulgue, anxieties of the unfortunate
were such that the game seemed suffered there. He did not could, in conscience, comply with the
misery of his wife received.

His dedication and sacrifices for the sake of the tranquility of his "beloved family" were worth
much more, and had to look where they have been, and as he had plenty in his master's house, my uncle,
hence had to leave, and much, and then, with the wit and the hand
of his own servant, Facia's own.

I felt very much take things on that side and so quickly, but the naughty need forced him to
it. It was, above all, loyal and grateful, and had great favors, I wanted to pay, other two
gentlemen who had shared with him their prison labor and they had not abandoned after it until
it declared.

This suddenly struck me a souvenir, and asked Facia signs "particular" of her husband. Started
by a Chirlo in the face that broke his eye and nose, and did not need the Acquaintance remaining
to give the character. Without discover my suspicions, harshly rebuked for having hidden until then
what I was saying. He, more than she cared silent, because he had great scores with justice. Everything
that was said in contrast, was an innocent lie to exploit their ignorance.

You could have picked in one of their ambushes, like a fox in the trap, as it would take insurance
if you have walked there ...

This is thrilled with horror the distraught woman and fell back on his knees before me to ask me crucified
by God not to do such a thing. She also had ever happened that could not be true all that he
said "the order of those individuals'; but so what? ... If that was not grieved that, but the
noise and fear of scandal to the place found out the case, then Don Celso and, above all, his daughter,
Oh, this ever!

... Cover, cover, and no more than cover! ... Therefore, your life and a hundred lives and
a thousand lives; the agony on the cross, in the glow of a furnace, dismembered alive ... Buried
in health, frogs and snakes.

- What about the theft too? - With ill-concealed interrupted harshly.

- Lord - I responded as terrified by the sound of the question -. Although capable off EYU, what
do I know HERE saves on my master's wealth, or whether it is even
home?

Here I mentioned, spirit and troubled, after sitting down again, by
my repeated mandates how, not having the courage to do what was proposed
by the infamous, or resolution enough to refuse, had been entertaining
him impatience with that objection and that of the continued presence
of myself and other people in the house because of the recurrence
of his love (because this happened in the days that followed the snow)
but, although all knew about him to none of this was of no importance:
on the contrary, argued that under those chores and concerns, it was
like she could best achieve their attempts, whether placed by work.

This, for good, because if he still looked very much, would come to bad, then, for bad or good, it
had to be done, and in the air.

The poor do not know what course to take in this circle of hot iron, burning, and as the impatience
of the rogue did not give the slightest respite, one day, the day before Facia of which had me,
had told him: "Since we do not take it with you to solve your hands, "we" decided "we" steal
with ours. By midnight tomorrow, when there is no sign of man in the kitchen or embers spark
at home and sleep everyone in the house, get to the gate of the lane. Then you will hear a
hiss of the air (And whistled softly in a way).

Needless to hear you and you come creeping to astragalus I open the door with such finesse
and care that neither of them know about it hinges. The rest is on us. We'll come to the cat,
which is hidden. If any too light to sleep, tummy to in saecula as soon as you wake up, and
the first your master, if it has not been started by his nephew ... and not left to tie all submissiveness
to order the case. So you're forewarned, and how it has cost you.
  "Or don't
you know?"

"I think I do."

"Because of the houses?"

She nodded.

"Yes.  I am afraid it may seem that my anxiety is about those houses, which I should lose by
his death, more than about him. Marty, I do feel anxious about the houses, since half my income
depends upon them; but I do likewise care for him; and it almost seems wrong that houses should
be leased for lives, so as to lead to such mixed feelings."

"After father's death they will be Mrs. Charmond's?"

"They'll be hers."

"They are going to keep company with my hair," she thought.

Thus talking, they reached the town.  By no pressure would she ride up the street with him.
"That's the right of another woman," she said, with playful malice, as she put on her pattens.
"I wonder what you are thinking of! Thank you for the lift in that handsome gig.  Good-by."

He blushed a little, shook his head at her, and drove on ahead into the streets--the churches,
the abbey, and other buildings on this clear bright morning having the liny distinctness of
architectural drawings, as if the original dream and vision of the conceiving master-mason,
some mediaeval Vilars or other unknown to fame, were for a few minutes flashed down through
the centuries to an unappreciative age.  Giles saw their eloquent look on this day of transparency,
but could not construe it.  He turned into the inn-yard.

Marty, following the same track, marched promptly to the hair-dresser's, Mr. Percombe's.  Percombe
was the chief of his trade in Sherton Abbas.  He had the patronage of such county offshoots
as had been obliged to seek the shelter of small houses in that ancient town, of the local
clergy, and so on, for some of whom he had made wigs, while others among them had compensated
for neglecting him in their lifetime by patronizing him when they were dead, and letting him
shave their corpses.  On the strength of all this he had taken down his pole, and called himself
"Perruquier to the aristocracy."

Nevertheless, this sort of support did not quite fill his children's mouths, and they had to
be filled.  So, behind his house there was a little yard, reached by a passage from the back
street, and in that yard was a pole, and under the pole a shop of quite another description
than the ornamental one in the front street.  Here on Saturday nights from seven till ten he
took an almost innumerable succession of twopences from the farm laborers who flocked thither
in crowds from the country.  And thus he lived.

Marty, of course, went to the front shop, and handed her packet to him silently.  "Thank you,"
said the barber, quite joyfully.  "I hardly expected it after what you said last night."

She turned aside, while a tear welled up and stood in each eye at this reminder.

"Nothing of what I told you," he whispered, there being others in the shop.  "But I can trust
you, I see."

She had now reached the end of this distressing business, and went listlessly along the street
to attend to other errands.  These occupied her till four o'clock, at which time she recrossed
the market-place. It was impossible to avoid rediscovering Winterborne every time she passed
that way, for standing, as he always did at this season of the year, with his specimen apple-tree
in the midst, the boughs rose above the heads of the crowd, and brought a delightful suggestion
of orchards among the crowded buildings there.  When her eye fell upon him for the last time
he was standing somewhat apart, holding the tree like an ensign, and looking on the ground
instead of pushing his produce as he ought to have been doing.  He was, in fact, not a very
successful seller either of his trees or of his cider, his habit of speaking his mind, when
he spoke at all, militating against this branch of his business.

While she regarded him he suddenly lifted his eyes in a direction away from Marty, his face
simultaneously kindling with recognition and surprise.  She followed his gaze, and saw walking
across to him a flexible young creature in whom she perceived the features of her she had known
as Miss Grace Melbury, but now looking glorified and refined above her former level.  Winterborne,
being fixed to the spot by his apple-tree, could not advance to meet her; he held out his spare
hand with his hat in it, and with some embarrassment beheld her coming on tiptoe through the
mud to the middle of the square where he stood.

Miss Melbury's arrival so early was, as Marty could see, unexpected by Giles, which accounted
for his not being ready to receive her.  Indeed, her father had named five o'clock as her probable
time, for which reason that hour had been looming out all the day in his forward perspective,
like an important edifice on a plain.  Now here she was come, he knew not how, and his arranged
welcome stultified.

His face became gloomy at her necessity for stepping into the road, and more still at the little
look of embarrassment which appeared on hers at having to perform the meeting with him under
an apple-tree ten feet high in the middle of the market-place. Having had occasion to take
off the new gloves she had bought to come home in, she held out to him a hand graduating from
pink at the tips of the fingers to white at the palm; and the reception formed a scene, with
the tree over their heads, which was not by any means an ordinary one in Sherton Abbas streets.

Nevertheless, the greeting on her looks and lips was of a restrained type, which perhaps was
not unnatural.  For true it was that Giles Winterborne, well-attired and well-mannered as he
was for a yeoman, looked rough beside her.  It had sometimes dimly occurred to him, in his
ruminating silence at Little Hintock, that external phenomena--such as the lowness or height
or color of a hat, the fold of a coat, the make of a boot, or the chance attitude or occupation
of a limb at the instant of view--may have a great influence upon feminine opinion of a man's
worth--so frequently founded on non-essentials; but a certain causticity of mental tone towards
himself and the world in general had prevented to-day, as always, any enthusiastic action on
the strength of that reflection; and her momentary instinct of reserve at first sight of him
was the penalty he paid for his laxness.

He gave away the tree to a by-stander, as soon as he could find one who would accept the cumbersome
gift, and the twain moved on towards the inn at which he had put up.  Marty made as if to step
forward for the pleasure of being recognized by Miss Melbury; but abruptly checking herself,
she glided behind a carrier's van, saying, dryly, "No; I baint wanted there," and critically
regarded Winterborne's companion.

It would have been very difficult to describe Grace Melbury with precision, either now or at
any time.  Nay, from the highest point of view, to precisely describe a human being, the focus
of a universe--how impossible! But, apart from transcendentalism, there never probably lived
a person who was in herself more completely a reductio ad absurdum of attempts to appraise
a woman, even externally, by items of face and figure.  Speaking generally, it may be said
that she was sometimes beautiful, at other times not beautiful, according to the state of her
health and spirits.

In simple corporeal presentment she was of a fair and clear complexion, rather pale than pink,
slim in build and elastic in movement.  Her look expressed a tendency to wait for others' thoughts
before uttering her own; possibly also to wait for others' deeds before her own doing.  In
her small, delicate mouth, which had perhaps hardly settled down to its matured curves, there
was a gentleness that might hinder sufficient self-assertion for her own good.  She had well-formed
eyebrows which, had her portrait been painted, would probably have been done in Prout's or
Vandyke brown.

There was nothing remarkable in her dress just now, beyond a natural fitness and a style that
was recent for the streets of Sherton.  But, indeed, had it been the reverse, and quite striking,
it would have meant just as little.  For there can be hardly anything less connected with a
woman's personality than drapery which she has neither designed, manufactured, cut, sewed,
or even seen, except by a glance of approval when told that such and such a shape and color
must be had because it has been decided by others as imperative at that particular time.

What people, therefore, saw of her in a cursory view was very little; in truth, mainly something
that was not she.  The woman herself was a shadowy, conjectural creature who had little to
do with the outlines presented to Sherton eyes; a shape in the gloom, whose true description
could only be approximated by putting together a movement now and a glance then, in that patient
and long-continued attentiveness which nothing but watchful loving-kindness ever troubles to give.

There was a little delay in their setting out from the town, and Marty South took advantage
of it to hasten forward, with the view of escaping them on the way, lest they should feel compelled
to spoil their tete-a-tete by asking her to ride.  She walked fast, and one-third of the journey
was done, and the evening rapidly darkening, before she perceived any sign of them behind her.
Then, while ascending a hill, she dimly saw their vehicle drawing near the lowest part of the
incline, their heads slightly bent towards each other; drawn together, no doubt, by their souls,
as the heads of a pair of horses well in hand are drawn in by the rein.  She walked still faster.

But between these and herself there was a carriage, apparently a brougham, coming in the same
direction, with lighted lamps.  When it overtook her--which was not soon, on account of her
pace--the scene was much darker, and the lights glared in her eyes sufficiently to hide the
details of the equipage.

It occurred to Marty that she might take hold behind this carriage and so keep along with it,
to save herself the mortification of being overtaken and picked up for pity's sake by the coming
pair. Accordingly, as the carriage drew abreast of her in climbing the long ascent, she walked
close to the wheels, the rays of the nearest lamp penetrating her very pores.  She had only
just dropped behind when the carriage stopped, and to her surprise the coachman asked her,
over his shoulder, if she would ride.  What made the question more surprising was that it came
in obedience to an order from the interior of the vehicle.

Marty gladly assented, for she was weary, very weary, after working all night and keeping afoot
all day.  She mounted beside the coachman, wondering why this good-fortune had happened to
her. He was rather a great man in aspect, and she did not like to inquire of him for some time.

At last she said, "Who has been so kind as to ask me to ride?"

"Mrs. Charmond," replied her statuesque companion.

Marty was stirred at the name, so closely connected with her last night's experiences.  "Is
this her carriage?" she whispered.

"Yes; she's inside."

Marty reflected, and perceived that Mrs. Charmond must have recognized her plodding up the
hill under the blaze of the lamp; recognized, probably, her stubbly poll (since she had kept
away her face), and thought that those stubbles were the result of her own desire.

Marty South was not so very far wrong.  Inside the carriage a pair of bright eyes looked from
a ripely handsome face, and though behind those bright eyes was a mind of unfathomed mysteries,
beneath them there beat a heart capable of quick extempore warmth--a heart which could, indeed,
be passionately and imprudently warm on certain occasions.  At present, after recognizing the
girl, she had acted on a mere impulse, possibly feeling gratified at the denuded appearance
which signified the success of her agent in obtaining what she had required.

"'Tis wonderful that she should ask ye," observed the magisterial coachman, presently.  "I
have never known her do it before, for as a rule she takes no interest in the village folk at all."

Marty said no more, but occasionally turned her head to see if she could get a glimpse of the
Olympian creature who as the coachman had truly observed, hardly ever descended from her clouds
into the Tempe of the parishioners.  But she could discern nothing of the lady.  She also looked
for Miss Melbury and Winterborne.  The nose of their horse sometimes came quite near the back
of Mrs. Charmond's carriage.  But they never attempted to pass it till the latter conveyance
turned towards the park gate, when they sped by. Here the carriage drew up that the gate might
be opened, and in the momentary silence Marty heard a gentle oral sound, soft as a breeze.

"What's that?" she whispered.

"Mis'ess yawning."

"Why should she yawn?"

"Oh, because she's been used to such wonderfully good life, and finds it dull here.  She'll
soon be off again on account of it."

"So rich and so powerful, and yet to yawn!" the girl murmured. "Then things don't fay with
she any more than with we!"

Marty now alighted; the lamp again shone upon her, and as the carriage rolled on, a soft voice
said to her from the interior, "Good-night."

"Good-night, ma'am," said Marty.  But she had not been able to see the woman who began so greatly
to interest her--the second person of her own sex who had operated strongly on her mind that day.

CHAPTER VI.

Meanwhile, Winterborne and Grace Melbury had also undergone their little experiences of the
same homeward journey.

As he drove off with her out of the town the glances of people fell upon them, the younger
thinking that Mr. Winterborne was in a pleasant place, and wondering in what relation he stood
towards her. Winterborne himself was unconscious of this.  Occupied solely with the idea of
having her in charge, he did not notice much with outward eye, neither observing how she was
dressed, nor the effect of the picture they together composed in the landscape.

Their conversation was in briefest phrase for some time, Grace being somewhat disconcerted,
through not having understood till they were about to start that Giles was to be her sole conductor
in place of her father.  When they were in the open country he spoke.

"Don't Brownley's farm-buildings look strange to you, now they have been moved bodily from
the hollow where the old ones stood to the top of the hill?"

She admitted that they did, though she should not have seen any difference in them if he had
not pointed it out.

"They had a good crop of bitter-sweets; they couldn't grind them all" (nodding towards an orchard
where some heaps of apples had been left lying ever since the ingathering).

She said "Yes," but looking at another orchard.

"Why, you are looking at John-apple-trees! You know bitter-sweets--you used to well enough!"

"I am afraid I have forgotten, and it is getting too dark to distinguish."

Winterborne did not continue.  It seemed as if the knowledge and interest which had formerly
moved Grace's mind had quite died away from her.  He wondered whether the special attributes
of his image in the past had evaporated like these other things.

However that might be, the fact at present was merely this, that where he was seeing John-apples
and farm-buildings she was beholding a far remoter scene--a scene no less innocent and simple,
indeed, but much contrasting--a broad lawn in the fashionable suburb of a fast city, the evergreen
leaves shining in the evening sun, amid which bounding girls, gracefully clad in artistic arrangements
of blue, brown, red, black, and white, were playing at games, with laughter and chat, in all
the pride of life, the notes of piano and harp trembling in the air from the open windows adjoining.
Moreover, they were girls--and this was a fact which Grace Melbury's delicate femininity could
not lose sight of--whose parents Giles would have addressed with a deferential Sir or Madam.
Beside this visioned scene the homely farmsteads did not quite hold their own from her present
twenty-year point of survey.  For all his woodland sequestration, Giles knew the primitive
simplicity of the subject he had started, and now sounded a deeper note.

"'Twas very odd what we said to each other years ago; I often think of it.  I mean our saying
that if we still liked each other when you were twenty and I twenty-five, we'd--"

"It was child's tattle."

"H'm!" said Giles, suddenly.

"I mean we were young," said she, more considerately.  That gruff manner of his in making inquiries
reminded her that he was unaltered in much.

"Yes....I beg your pardon, Miss Melbury; your father SENT me to meet you to-day."

"I know it, and I am glad of it."

He seemed satisfied with her tone and went on: "At that time you were sitting beside me at
the back of your father's covered car, when we were coming home from gypsying, all the party
being squeezed in together as tight as sheep in an auction-pen.  It got darker and darker,
and I said--I forget the exact words--but I put my arm round your waist and there you let it
stay till your father, sitting in front suddenly stopped telling his story to Farmer Bollen,
to light his pipe. The flash shone into the car, and showed us all up distinctly; my arm flew
from your waist like lightning; yet not so quickly but that some of 'em had seen, and laughed
at us.  Yet your father, to our amazement, instead of being angry, was mild as milk, and seemed
quite pleased. Have you forgot all that, or haven't you?"

She owned that she remembered it very well, now that he mentioned the circumstances.  "But,
goodness! I must have been in short frocks," she said.

"Come now, Miss Melbury, that won't do! Short frocks, indeed! You know better, as well as I."

Grace thereupon declared that she would not argue with an old friend she valued so highly as
she valued him, saying the words with the easy elusiveness that will be polite at all costs.
It might possibly be true, she added, that she was getting on in girlhood when that event took
place; but if it were so, then she was virtually no less than an old woman now, so far did
the time seem removed from her present.  "Do you ever look at things philosophically instead
of personally?" she asked.

"I can't say that I do," answered Giles, his eyes lingering far ahead upon a dark spot, which
proved to be a brougham.

"I think you may, sometimes, with advantage," said she.  "Look at yourself as a pitcher drifting
on the stream with other pitchers, and consider what contrivances are most desirable for avoiding
cracks in general, and not only for saving your poor one.  Shall I tell you all about Bath
or Cheltenham, or places on the Continent that I visited last summer?"

"With all my heart."

She then described places and persons in such terms as might have been used for that purpose
by any woman to any man within the four seas, so entirely absent from that description was
everything specially appertaining to her own existence.  When she had done she said, gayly,
"Now do you tell me in return what has happened in Hintock since I have been away."

"Anything to keep the conversation away from her and me," said Giles within him.

It was true cultivation had so far advanced in the soil of Miss Melbury's mind as to lead her
to talk by rote of anything save of that she knew well, and had the greatest interest in developing--that
is to say, herself.

He had not proceeded far with his somewhat bald narration when they drew near the carriage
that had been preceding them for some time. Miss Melbury inquired if he knew whose carriage it was.

Winterborne, although he had seen it, had not taken it into account. On examination, he said
it was Mrs. Charmond's.

Grace watched the vehicle and its easy roll, and seemed to feel more nearly akin to it than
to the one she was in.

"Pooh! We can polish off the mileage as well as they, come to that," said Winterborne, reading
her mind; and rising to emulation at what it bespoke, he whipped on the horse.  This it was
which had brought the nose of Mr. Melbury's old gray close to the back of Mrs. Charmond's much-eclipsing
vehicle.

"There's Marty South Sitting up with the coachman," said he, discerning her by her dress.

"Ah, poor Marty! I must ask her to come to see me this very evening. How does she happen to
be riding there?"

"I don't know.  It is very singular."

Thus these people with converging destinies went along the road together, till Winterborne,
leaving the track of the carriage, turned into Little Hintock, where almost the first house
was the timber-merchant's.  Pencils of dancing light streamed out of the windows sufficiently
to show the white laurestinus flowers, and glance over the polished leaves of laurel.  The
interior of the rooms could be seen distinctly, warmed up by the fire-flames, which in the
parlor were reflected from the glass of the pictures and bookcase, and in the kitchen from
the utensils and ware.

"Let us look at the dear place for a moment before we call them," she said.

In the kitchen dinner was preparing; for though Melbury dined at one o'clock at other times,
to-day the meal had been kept back for Grace. A rickety old spit was in motion, its end being
fixed in the fire-dog, and the whole kept going by means of a cord conveyed over pulleys along
the ceiling to a large stone suspended in a corner of the room.  Old Grammer Oliver came and
wound it up with a rattle like that of a mill.

In the parlor a large shade of Mrs. Melbury's head fell on the wall and ceiling; but before
the girl had regarded this room many moments their presence was discovered, and her father
and stepmother came out to welcome her. I have not forgotten my father was a tall, of beautiful
eyes, very twisted his mustache. Hugged me warmly, kissed me, and Lina exclaimed :--«¡ lifting
me! Linilla! Who is my charm? Who is my medal? Who I want a long, long ... Mu ... cho! "

But one day he went to war .... Always the war and revolutions! It was early morning, and he went
with officers and soldiers. We went to say goodbye. I picked her up, kissed me eyes, hugged
my mother, then mounted his horse, and said, 'Hasta la vista !...» and left. We did not see
him. That war lasted three years. He was not to know what state away, and we we wait your turn.

One
day my mother received a letter.

My father called us. Was obliged to obey, and then As we sell, furniture, clothes, everything
in the house, we started our journey soloists, in a carriage that gave many bumps and it was
very noise running down the pavements. We walked day and night, and we only stopped at the inn to
sleep and rest a few hours. Before dawn, the carriage again, again empty roads, afraid of thieves.
We used to go through some towns. The car stopped, got off to go to the restaurant, ate, and from
walking. One day my mom complained that it hurt head. He had fever and was obliged to stay in
a village in an inn. I slept with her, I remember burning with fever, his body burned like an ember.
I woke up at half night, and I said: Mom! Mom! And did not answer, remained dead. Once, seeing
did not respond, I began to mourn .... Then my mom came to, and tucked me saying things I did
not understand, very strange things. Dad told me that my mother had typhus. The landlady called
the Father, and when he arrived the patient had lost consciousness. Came town doctor and stated
that it was too late, that the agony was close!

- No live one hour .-- ...-- said Father, Put the oils!

- This creature should not be here ...-- replied the priest, placing the stole - that take my
home!

I did not want to part with there. I resisted, I cried, I wept ... but in vain! I was a little one
seven years, and yet, I realized what was happening: he would never see my mother. Crying I
and my tears were tears of great pain. My mother was dying, was not to see me anymore. They
took me to the rectory. There is nothing I amused or comforted me, I spent the day without eating,
sullen, unwilling to the attention of the father and the gift of an old woman, housekeeper of this
modest home. I snuggled on the couch, where I gave up the dream, and then took me to bed. At
midnight I woke up, crying, calling my mom. The old woman came to see me, me clothed and was stroking
until I fell asleep. In the morning, when I opened my eyes my mother asked. I said I was in
heaven. The old woman washed me, clothed me, and gave me breakfast. To distract me to the room
and gave me toys, dolls birth, pastors, goats, sheep, a cardboard house, a mill with its wheel
that spinning move by blasting.  This was what the household were actually talking of during Giles's
cogitation without; and Melbury's satisfaction with the clear atmosphere that had arisen between
himself and the deity of the groves which enclosed his residence was the cause of a counterbalancing
mistiness on the side towards Winterborne.

"So thoroughly does she trust me," said Melbury, "that I might fell, top, or lop, on my own
judgment, any stick o' timber whatever in her wood, and fix the price o't, and settle the matter.
But, name it all! I wouldn't do such a thing.  However, it may be useful to have this good
understanding with her....I wish she took more interest in the place, and stayed here all the
year round."

"I am afraid 'tis not her regard for you, but her dislike of Hintock, that makes her so easy
about the trees," said Mrs. Melbury.

When dinner was over, Grace took a candle and began to ramble pleasurably through the rooms
of her old home, from which she had latterly become wellnigh an alien.  Each nook and each
object revived a memory, and simultaneously modified it.  The chambers seemed lower than they
had appeared on any previous occasion of her return, the surfaces of both walls and ceilings
standing in such relations to the eye that it could not avoid taking microscopic note of their
irregularities and old fashion.  Her own bedroom wore at once a look more familiar than when
she had left it, and yet a face estranged. To all this, Don Pedro Nolasco, standing, rigid, motionless and silent,
in the same place that had been planted at the door. Access soon passed, and turned fall ill
in the morass of before ... But what the hell I saw that I was captivated Lituca more attention
at that time that the shock of his grandfather and the plight of my uncle? What was in it again
and strange to me? Well, quite simply, tears their eyes and pained expression on his boyish face,
and I wondered as I left my doubts: "But when this girl is cuter? "When he laughs and gurgles
as the birds the mountain, without sorrow or care, or feel, as now, in the absence of pain themselves,
compassion that will inspire others? "And not knowing which of these two extremes to choose,
I remained with the two, because it's true that laughing or crying, I was really cute creature.

Fearing that too much impressed with frequent contemplation of that distressing picture human
misery, so new to her, advised her to refrain from entering the room the patient. To which I replied
with a force resolution to be imposed:

- Well, now you have to do, Don Marcelo! ... Go! Go! ... Do you think I am of fuss, just in
case? I will not say that at first I shrink a little, but then ... Go! Go! And finally, for
the chances are the mighty, and now or never.

On my Poor Mr. Don Celso! ...

- Leave it, leave it - I said almost the same time the rosy Mari Pepa, throwing the last their coats
on a chair floating on top of which had just shed Lituca -, let in
and out whenever you want, which is good jacerse all, as she will
jiciendo because I know it well.

Her curiosity was so widely awakened by the phenomenon that she sat up in bed, and stared steadily
at the shine.  An appearance of this sort, sufficient to excite attention anywhere, was no
less than a marvel in Hintock, as Grace had known the hamlet.  Almost every diurnal and nocturnal
effect in that woodland place had hitherto been the direct result of the regular terrestrial
roll which produced the season's changes; but here was something dissociated from these normal
sequences, and foreign to local habit and knowledge.

It was about this moment that Grace heard the household below preparing to retire, the most
emphatic noise in the proceeding being that of her father bolting the doors.  Then the stairs
creaked, and her father and mother passed her chamber.  The last to come was Grammer Oliver.

Grace slid out of bed, ran across the room, and lifting the latch, said, "I am not asleep,
Grammer.  Come in and talk to me."

Before the old woman had entered, Grace was again under the bedclothes. Grammer set down her
candlestick, and seated herself on the edge of Miss Melbury's coverlet. And seen his son Viracocha Inca Yupanqui was with that purpose, she
laughed and ignored much of him, because it took him six children, and with them the greatest
and most beloved of his, who was called Urco Inca, whom he thought to leave location and name
of person.

Known that the Chanca was what he had done Uscovilca Viracocha, decided to send him a captain
of his who was said Guaman Guaraca, that the Inca Viracocha concluded that Paresce, well I
had him, which became captain, and received him very Viracocha While in El Penol Do was. And
the captain for Uscovilca shipped to Viracocha Inca, known how they had been in Cuzco Inca
Yupanqui with the three gentlemen already mentioned, and each a servant to serve, and in order
to die and not be subjective, and known this new by Uscovilca, rejoiced much, because it paresció,
who beat the Inca Yupanqui, son Viracocha Inca and to the three gentlemen who were with him,
that could succeed, and taking them over in Cuzco, dondél came to track. And a captain Deste
Uscovilca called Tomay Guaraca, known the new Deste purpose of Inca Yupanqui, Uscovilca asked
his Lord, do her the favor of this enterprise; Quél wanted to go to Cuzco and to apprehend
and kill Inca Yupanqui and those who were with him. And Uscovilca replied that such an undertaking
than that, that if he wanted, and that he wanted his hand to finish, and then he sent a messenger
to his Inca Yupanqui, by which he sent to say that you were delighted to know that he wanted to
try their strength and courage of youth, who is dressed himself and his family who were with
him, which to three months there wanted to go see him, that because of not to complain, I wanted
to give space three months that he could see best, and so they dress the same weapons and
people who Paresce. For as the Uscovilca hobiese known that Viracocha had been run away from
the city of Cuzco, and brought with him all his people, and the most that could lead from other
neighboring villages to the city of Cuzco, had this Uscovilca that would turn him anyone to Inca
Yupanqui that part was to resist the power that he brought. And since to Inca Yupanqui what say Uscovilca
winters, Quél was answered quickly before he died fighting be subjective, Nascar and had free
Quél sir, and if his father was obidient, which could provide for himself and those with him had
there in the Peñol do was and that he was not in it, but if he was to be Lord of Cuzco and titled
as such who fought with him and overcome him, TERNIA of such renown, and that his father rejoiced hobiese
desmamparado Cuzco and come out of it, being held opinion of himself, which he may never had made
Cuzco and been beaten by anyone since it had founded Mango Capac.
  'A woman's is usually four ounces
less than a man's; but yours is man's size.' Well, then--hee, hee!--after he'd flattered me
a bit like that, he said he'd give me ten pounds to have me as a natomy after my death.  Well,
knowing I'd no chick nor chiel left, and nobody with any interest in me, I thought, faith,
if I can be of any use to my fellow-creatures after I'm gone they are welcome to my services;
so I said I'd think it over, and would most likely agree and take the ten pounds.  Now this
is a secret, miss, between us two.  The money would be very useful to me; and I see no harm in it."

"Of course there's no harm.  But oh, Grammer, how can you think to do it?  I wish you hadn't
told me."

"I wish I hadn't--if you don't like to know it, miss.  But you needn't mind.  Lord--hee, hee!--I
shall keep him waiting many a year yet, bless ye!"

"I hope you will, I am sure."

The girl thereupon fell into such deep reflection that conversation languished, and Grammer
Oliver, taking her candle, wished Miss Melbury good-night.  The latter's eyes rested on the
distant glimmer, around which she allowed her reasoning fancy to play in vague eddies that
shaped the doings of the philosopher behind that light on the lines of intelligence just received.
It was strange to her to come back from the world to Little Hintock and find in one of its
nooks, like a tropical plant in a hedgerow, a nucleus of advanced ideas and practices which
had nothing in common with the life around.  Chemical experiments, anatomical projects, and
metaphysical conceptions had found a strange home here.

Thus she remained thinking, the imagined pursuits of the man behind the light intermingling
with conjectural sketches of his personality, till her eyes fell together with their own heaviness,
and she slept.

CHAPTER VII.

Kaleidoscopic dreams of a weird alchemist-surgeon, Grammer Oliver's skeleton, and the face
of Giles Winterborne, brought Grace Melbury to the morning of the next day.  It was fine. 
A north wind was blowing--that not unacceptable compromise between the atmospheric cutlery
of the eastern blast and the spongy gales of the west quarter. She looked from her window in
the direction of the light of the previous evening, and could just discern through the trees
the shape of the surgeon's house.  Somehow, in the broad, practical daylight, that unknown
and lonely gentleman seemed to be shorn of much of the interest which had invested his personality
and pursuits in the hours of darkness, and as Grace's dressing proceeded he faded from her mind.

Meanwhile, Winterborne, though half assured of her father's favor, was rendered a little restless
by Miss Melbury's behavior. Despite his dry self-control, he could not help looking continually
from his own door towards the timber-merchant's, in the probability of somebody's emergence
therefrom.  His attention was at length justified by the appearance of two figures, that of
Mr. Melbury himself, and Grace beside him.  They stepped out in a direction towards the densest
quarter of the wood, and Winterborne walked contemplatively behind them, till all three were
soon under the trees.

Although the time of bare boughs had now set in, there were sheltered hollows amid the Hintock
plantations and copses in which a more tardy leave-taking than on windy summits was the rule
with the foliage.  This caused here and there an apparent mixture of the seasons; so that in
some of the dells that they passed by holly-berries in full red were found growing beside oak
and hazel whose leaves were as yet not far removed from green, and brambles whose verdure was
rich and deep as in the month of August.  To Grace these well-known peculiarities were as an
old painting restored.

Now could be beheld that change from the handsome to the curious which the features of a wood
undergo at the ingress of the winter months. Angles were taking the place of curves, and reticulations
of surfaces--a change constituting a sudden lapse from the ornate to the primitive on Nature's
canvas, and comparable to a retrogressive step from the art of an advanced school of painting
to that of the Pacific Islander.

Winterborne followed, and kept his eye upon the two figures as they threaded their way through
these sylvan phenomena.  Mr. Melbury's long legs, and gaiters drawn in to the bone at the ankles,
his slight stoop, his habit of getting lost in thought and arousing himself with an exclamation
of "Hah!" accompanied with an upward jerk of the head, composed a personage recognizable by
his neighbors as far as he could be seen.  It seemed as if the squirrels and birds knew him.
One of the former would occasionally run from the path to hide behind the arm of some tree,
which the little animal carefully edged round pari passu with Melbury and his daughters movement
onward, assuming a mock manner, as though he were saying, "Ho, ho; you are only a timber-merchant,
and carry no gun!"

They went noiselessly over mats of starry moss, rustled through interspersed tracts of leaves,
skirted trunks with spreading roots, whose mossed rinds made them like hands wearing green
gloves; elbowed old elms and ashes with great forks, in which stood pools of water that overflowed
on rainy days, and ran down their stems in green cascades. On older trees still than these,
huge lobes of fungi grew like lungs. Here, as everywhere, the Unfulfilled Intention, which
makes life what it is, was as obvious as it could be among the depraved crowds of a city slum.
The leaf was deformed, the curve was crippled, the taper was interrupted; the lichen eat the
vigor of the stalk, and the ivy slowly strangled to death the promising sapling.

They dived amid beeches under which nothing grew, the younger boughs still retaining their
hectic leaves, that rustled in the breeze with a sound almost metallic, like the sheet-iron
foliage of the fabled Jarnvid wood.  Some flecks of white in Grace's drapery had enabled Giles
to keep her and her father in view till this time; but now he lost sight of them, and was obliged
to follow by ear--no difficult matter, for on the line of their course every wood-pigeon rose
from its perch with a continued clash, dashing its wings against the branches with wellnigh
force enough to break every quill.  By taking the track of this noise he soon came to a stile.

Was it worth while to go farther? He examined the doughy soil at the foot of the stile, and
saw among the large sole-and-heel tracks an impression of a slighter kind from a boot that
was obviously not local, for Winterborne knew all the cobblers' patterns in that district,
because they were very few to know. The mud-picture was enough to make him swing himself over
and proceed.

The character of the woodland now changed.  The bases of the smaller trees were nibbled bare
by rabbits, and at divers points heaps of fresh-made chips, and the newly-cut stool of a tree,
stared white through the undergrowth.  There had been a large fall of timber this year, which
explained the meaning of some sounds that soon reached him.

A voice was shouting intermittently in a sort of human bark, which reminded Giles that there
was a sale of trees and fagots that very day. When we usually encounter petty beings with souls degraded,
for which self-respect is vain word, if not reach the ears touches the heart, or dyed red
cheeks, saying: "Soul of a slave!" And without wanting to think of a life of misery that debased
the character and spirit trap for fools. Say what you will, that nobility is the only happiness
of the rich. For her, only for her, admiring the world. Everything else that they envy the
crowd is like the crown of tinsel that surrounds the front of the actor. Noble dignity, dignity
enviable places except higher heart clothes!

Observe all those who lived a miserable childhood, in whose home is often missed bread, they
had no clothes to cover the emaciated body that begged ashamed public charity, and not as
a beggar, with quiet directness, but hiding the demand flattering phrase, which became, gradually,
the shy smile embarrassing to the appeal; suggestive of the request to the shameful exploitation,
and from there ... tolerance interested and you will see, whether in wealth, but the mime and society's
wealth has As compensation for a time denied even have hidden in the heart most vinegar and gall
of misery. Hopeless poverty gives character, and its breast hypocritical breed pride, modesty
mocking, malicious cunning, who have flexibilities Viper, the meanness intriguing poisonous
slander and envy all bloodless the greed and everything ugly.

In pursuit of that noble dignity are all souls uplifted, high thinking,
cease heart: the student who strives to conquer worthy place in society,
the merchant spent at work the best years of life, the tradesman who
struggle for life independent.

The desire to achieve it is the only apology that is greed.

My father wanted me that coveted happiness could not achieve their goals, but he inherited the
instinct of pride pride with which I rejected all the time, a boy,
a waiter, and mature man unworthy humiliation, reprimand unmotivated,
the brutal outrage of those who was considered superior to me.

I inherited my mother's placid sweetness for weakness, submission respectful to all acts of justice,
irresistible tendency to feel sorry for the pain of others, and a certain feminine delicacy
that has caused me a lot of bitterness.

Delivered to these meditations spent an hour. Wine sleep, and sweet wine and flattering, as a loving
friend who comes to our call to give comfort, to revive the depressed
heart as a compassionate sister who comes to our bed and caresses
our face, -closed our eyes, inviting us to rest because he knows that
we suffer and we need rest.

XXXIX

The next day, after breakfast, I told my aunt what was happening.

-
And you go! - Cried my aunt Pepa .-- You go and leave us?

- Is necessary.

I realize this must be very painful for you .... I understand, I have
already thought about it, but what to do?

- Now that we are alone,
when Angelina just left ... when after all these years of freedom
has returned to our side!

- Yes, Aunt, I will go, and not by choice.

God knows how painful is this separation! ... But Do not worry you.

It is necessary .... I am bound a. ...

- To live with your aunt! - Said interrupting me.

- I have to meet the needs of you.

- Do not you just what you want in the house of Castro Perez?

Did you ask something you can not us?

- No, aunt, but I can not look calmly working life takes you.

Andrés ago for us what he can, and the poor may soon. I am not ashamed to accept his favors;
but that should not go on indefinitely .... You know the house of Castro Pérez I earn little,
and it is not possible to earn more.

- Well, I think there is your future ....

I could not but smile to hear my poor aunt.

- My future?

- Yes.

-
No, aunt, I would not spend my life writing allegations.

This work is killing me.

Not because rude, but because it is insufficient. I prefer to farm work and the hectic life
of the fields giving health and good humor.

The patient remained silent. Aunt Pepa tried to convince me that I should not leave. We discussed
at length the point, she, living, nerve, unleashing all the difficulties, I pretending that
he had a serenity. Neither the old woman wanted to surrender and I managed to convince her.

- Come on - I cried - that solves my sponsor!

- Yes, my son - said the old woman - it's my turn! Pepa loves you and is made let us drive.
Think you, Pepa, which is not far from us, think that will come frequently, and believes that now,
with Castro Pérez, will do nothing. You go, Rodolfo, I go, and we'll be very happy. Say no more.
Get dressed, I see that as you judge, dress and go to the home of
Fernandez.

Discontent will not get is a very fine person.

Is not it true, Pepa?

- I will, aunt.

- Then you go to the house of Castro Pérez, and alerts you within twenty days, or those are, as agreed,
you have to separate you from there, and you're done!

He added a little tremulous emotion:

- Look, I feel that we leave, but reason dictates that you let me go, that it does not prevent you
you're doing. I am the best day I'll go too, and I will not die when I choke the idea that
because we have lost well-being that we can not give you ....

The old woman's voice was becoming weaker every day, and no emotion is turned off until be imperceptible.
To soothe the sick and leave it alone gave him a hug and kissed her on the forehead.

- No, godmother, we should not grieve! I will come to see you every week. In addition, the
estate Santa Clara is the world's end .... Ya, you'll see his nephew,
How cute and Gallardo is coming, charro dress in a magnificent horse!

You'll see, Aunt Pepa, how elegant and handsome I am with the tight pants, the Jarano gallon, airy
jacket and the pistol in his belt!

And "taca, taca, taca"! There's the ranch! Has arrived! And enter Juana saying: "Lady ...
wine and the charro! "And you, Aunt Pepilla, you'll run to meet me and embrace, or peek out the
window you see me come and see all the girls have to look at me with
eyes wide, as saying: "What reguapo!"

And I will come in, sounding the spurs, and you will become very happy. Y. .. Chas! There is a
stream of dollars!

The patient smiled, smiled Pepilla aunt and I walked around the room,
affecting the brave admirable bearing of a rider.

An hour later I went out of the house of Mr. Fernandez. Presented
the doctor card I obtained perfectly.

The farmer showed me into his office, an elegant piece trousseau. In two of three stayed fixed.

-
I hope you on the fifteenth.

Come for you. Send a servant.

Do you have custom Riding?

- No, sir, I do like a schoolboy ....

The farmer smiled and said:

- Friend: we'll see! ... Riding is learned ....

Then he spoke of my family, my aunts, my godmother's disease, my grandfather, who had tried not
to know how much, and then fired me two words.

- Well, - said - problem solved!

You forgive me ... We journey ... "Like you lunch?

And he rose and led me to the door.

In those moments came the lady.

- Dad!

Blushed when he saw me, and murmured shyly:

- You dispense ....

-
What is it, Gabriel? - Asked the gentleman.

- What time are we leaving?

-
After eating ... unless you want to go out later ....

I waved, and
left.

Linda creature! Although I think I see with that blue dress that seemed A patch of sky, slender,
grace, elegant, simple, moist blonde hair, which tied with a silk ribbon, fell to the back on
a towel very wide. I never seemed more beautiful!

XL

When I reached the office I met the legal expert. Left to go to court.

- Friend: - I said very gestudo and mohino - I'm tired of waiting
.... What happened?

Why what comes to you at this hour?

Remind yourself that duty comes first.

Let your love affairs for the moments to strike.

I was hurt, and mumbled an apology, which did not calm the anger of
Don Juan, but on Otherwise, you impatient, because, interrupting my
excuses, he added scornfully:

- Well!

Well! Do not repeat this! ... I'm going to court.

Tell the girls you I do not wait .... Return between four and five.

Here in my office is a letter .... Copy you!

It was made the hat, and left.

A little, when I was beginning to write, I heard in the hall feminine
voices that distracted my attention.

Luisa and Teresa, (the others were not speaking) appeared in front
of the desk.

They came very pestles and attack.

- Dad! - The blonde shouted,
poking his head .-- lively Dad!

We're back!

Then they learned that Don Juan was out and would not return until
the afternoon, the two girls of brashly slipped into the office, and
sat on the bench of the customers.

Fanned furiously, and looked and smiled as willing to say something they do not fit in the
body.

- Did not steal the time? - Asked the brunette.

- No, miss.

- Really? - Said the blonde.

- No.

- Well then - burst Luisa, - leave the pen and a chat.

- As you like.

-
What you do not know where we come from?

- In the church store, come
buy perendengues and bows.

- No! - Cry out with one.

- I fail ....

-
Guess you !...-- said the brunette.

- Guess you !...-- repeated the
blonde.

- No success, ladies ....

- Do you hear, Luisa?

No hits! Well we know where you were half an hour ago ....

- Ah! It is hard to say. I just came, and you would leave me home ..

- Do you hear, Tere? De .. home!

- Then from there I left an hour ago.

- "So at home, eh? - The brunette muttered .-- From home!

They looked quietly and smiled.

Luisa, to show off her beautiful hands, her hair was made, stating with forks fingertips. Teresa
sat in the seat letting me see your feet, carefully shoes, then slammed
the fan, pretended that he would set the rods, lowered eyes, and after
a pause, he repeated, looking at me straight in the eye:

- "So at
home, eh?

I laughed.

That "So" was the catch phrase of the Miss Castro Pérez, and Villaverde when they spoke, everyone
said "So Castro girls."

- What are you laughing? - Asked the blonde
upset.

- Sure.

You are very malicious ....

- So Home! - Again .-- say you did not
know who lived there in the "pa ... the ... price "of the marquise!

Why not warn you when moving house?

The storm was over.

- You are very malicious. It is true that I was in the house of Mr. Fernandez ... what?

- Go! Go! Confess you ...-- Luisa said, fanning herself.

- No wonder.

You know that business .... I went to collect a signature.

- You!

If we were there .... We pay a visit. Because we were ashamed to see Gabriela. Just imagine that over
a year ago he came here.

Dad said all the time: "Girls ... You already paid this visit? " We did not want to go ... because ...
truth ....

- Do not say, - interrupted the dark - do not say that Rudolph is
interested!

- Goodbye!

And why not?

An owner is to say what they want ....

- Yes, but ... Not everyone! Can not you see Rodolfo ....?

- Tell me, Teresa, you say!

- No, Tere! - Pleaded Luisa.

- Well I have to say! ... Well, go, let ... Miss that we ... hits!

- Why?

- Friolera! - Luisa said .-- Have not seen you so smug and so proud, that all despises, and
that says all we are a clown ... vilaverdinas, some ridiculous.

- Look here, ladies: I think that girl is not proud, nor smug, I think
who did not despise anyone, and that, by contrast, is very nice to
everyone, and insurance is unable to say that you attribute ....

-
You do have to say!

... You defend it because ... Go! Because you are in love it!

- Me, Teresa?

- Yes.

- Who said that?

- Everybody!

Everyone says so!

- Well, 'everyone' says lie.

- Lie? It whipped me in the street, and who do not know in my house!

You say what you like ... but if it is true what they have, you have
to blame for everything, because it makes you a bears terrible ....
Night after night you're going to hear it play .... Are you there
for hours, on the railing of the Plaza.

And so Gabriela, who knows he has ... Au ... auditorium "is not removed
from the piano .... And you are ... (You do not get mad!) Certain
that the poor thing do good evil ... Right, Luisa?

- By God, Tere!
- Said the brunette.

- Shut up you!

Now you see, Rodolfo: we told him to play, and played the "Sonnambula"
in Talberg.

Jesus help us!

What 'Sleepwalker'!

- No, child, no, do not say that .... She played
without expression, without a compass ... but as for running ... Runs
much!

And wanted many of those who call themselves teachers, run as Gabriela.

- Well, look, Luisa, and I grant you that!

Joke What's so bang on the piano?

If what I looked like a dog suit.

And the blonde covered her ears.

- Teresa, by God: ten charity! -
Sympathetically told the brunette .-- Do not talk like that, tell
we say that for ... Envy!

- Do you envy me?

And what?

Me? Thank God I do not play the piano!

- No, but you think you are only repeating what I say.

- And tell
the truth.

Who told me now, to go from there: "Did you see, you hear?

That's not playing! Too bad piano! "Were not you?

Then why do you frighten? I say whatever I want.

You know: as ugly as so frank!

I angered the defaming of those girls so rude and so cheesy.

- Ugly? Not so! Who said you're ugly? I do not say, nor what anyone says, and less ... Ricardo
Tejeda.

Kindled the blonde to hear this name. Ricardo had been her boyfriend, I knew very well, he
told me in college, and Teresa could not forgive my friend who, at
some "end" with it, it has seen much interest to the elegant and charming
lady.

Hence Gabriela hatred, hence murmur of her beauty here that everything
in afeara Miss Fernandez.

- Yes - strongly replied Teresa - I know
that you have a rival Ricardo ....

The cursing was in love with friend
Sora, he wanted his own way, loved him like crazy and could not forget
him.

- Yes, I know that Richard is in love with Gabriel, I know,
and I also know that we will not go with you, or you'll be looking
as before.

Before such good friends!

Now enemies to death!

- Enemies?

Who said that?

- Yes, you pass but do not buy .... But are you calm, Rodolfo, Ricardo is not scary ... Is not
scary!

- See you, lady: if Richard is thinking that I intend to Gabriela, is because some he cheated
.... Someone who wanted to make fun of us ...!

We listened intently Luisa, played with her fan, and he smiled at me hear. Teresa was a pensive
moment.

- Listen, Rodolfo: I want you to do a favor?

- Let's see, what ...?

-
Do you love with this lady?

- No.

- Really?

- Really.

- Well,
you enamórela; enamórela you.

I know women very well, as I am of sex. Enamórela you! I assure you that in two of three will manage
you!

- What about Ricardo? - Asked seriously.

- Ricardo?

How infuriating! Who sends to be silly!

The girls stood up, chattering two or three minutes, and left. At the door stopped. Teresa turned
to me, and malicious tone between pleading and said:

- Rodolfo: enamórela you!

XLI

Pérez Castro arrived a little before five o'clock.

He went silent, he left his hat on the table and staff, and then, step by step, he went to mine:

-
Have you finished the copy?

- Here it is.

Read the allegation, signed and returned to his room. I followed him.

- I want to talk with you two little words.

- What is it?

I told him I was going to be separated, which is why I was forced by necessity, my expenses were
still higher every day, and there I was earning enough to meet my family.

- Come on - I stopped - what is that? Are you upset because this morning ....

- No, - I hurried to answer - I gave you reason to rebuke me.

You are right; duty comes first. No, sir, I assure you that this is not the cause of my separation.
I do not win here what I need, and, of course, I am obligated to ensure that my aunts did
not lack nothing. I have work elsewhere .... They earn more.

Kindled the jurist, he stood on the chair, is composed glasses, and
looking at me above the glass told me scornfully

- Well!

Well! Y. .. know, what use is that?

Are you going to get a school teacher?

- No, sir.

- Well, then?

- I go to the hacienda of Santa Clara ....

- I thought so! The usual! That Fernández has worked to rid the scribes! Well! Well! Do what you
like, do what you suits you, but do not say here you have been underpaid, it's not true! No
one has won here more than you. I will not say I pay a lump sum or anything, because the money
does not come with the rain, but ... you're single, you have no family,
no obligations .... With what you have here ... Is enough and to spare!

Well! Well!

I wanted to reply, but I found it unnecessary to clarify. Pérez Castro continued:

- You will not be happy in Santa Clara. The announcement from now. There, according to news,
work hard, a lot! ... You do not have a habit of killing and, from sunrise to sunset, as a
farmhand. Here's your best, you have free time for all .... Up to verse! Well! Well! And when are
you going?

- Within fifteen days.

- That itself is bad, very bad! Well! Will leave you at your convenience. Today call the substitute.
You shall be free from today!
- I had to stay here, serving you until the day I should be on the
farm, and I wanted ....

- No, young man, no, what is to be late to
be early.

I felt humiliated, and silent.

- See you, young man -
added gently - you stay with me .... He would raise the salaries;
I'll give you five dollars more. I think with that you will not have
problems!

- Impossible, sir! Accepted as the destination, and I refuse
it now seems appropriate.

- You're right. Well! Well!

He opened
the desk drawer, pulled out a handful of coins, I made the account,
both by day as a servant, and gave me a few dollars. I gladly would
I have refused to receive them generous pretext of detachment, but
I needed that money, it was bread and life happy for a few days.

Sad
condition of the poor! - I .-- Sad condition of who is required to
serve another! And then I remembered, one by one, all the bad times
that had passed me in the house the jurist, and where ever I saw not,
although they were few. Mistrust, bad manners, despotic treatment,
reprimands unmotivated, corrections stupid feats of science that had
designed to maintain a credit founded on sand, and, above all, that
distrust offensive insulting, there are some rich towards the poor
that serves and earn little, who fears all evil, and who can offend
with impunity, it is known that the outraged will be silent, because
if you speak and reply, and rejects the infamous energy noble suspicion
will run the daily crust won at the expense of hard labor.

Until
then I stopped lying on the poor, who live on a paltry salary is at
the mercy of those who pay. What will you do if you take to the streets?
What will you do if, injured in his honor and their dignity, protesting
his innocence, and takes his hat, and go? "It will do this! - Says
master .-- What do you eat tomorrow? Have children, wife ... 'And
you trusted in this outraged and runs without piety.

But then my
heart had fallen into a drop of gall. Youth is generous, is good,
and does not believe, does not believe that others are or may be bad,
think that there is only noble hearts and good souls.

Do not forget
or never forget that one day, in the office of Castro Perez, received
a good amount in cash, told and retold coins, I checked with the greatest
care, and were complete. He told them after the jurist, and he was
missing. Trembling out soon and angry.

- Here you need money !...--
burst into loud, in front of Porras and Linares.

I went back to counting
money in front of everyone. Cabalito!

- You're right! - Muttered
Don Juan .-- You dispense!

Don Cosme did not realize what was happening.
Porras step stopped me, laid his hands on my shoulders, I said gently:

-
This man is hopeless! Who sends you spend those ties ... so pretty
Patience, young man! Patience!

Was six, I picked up some papers I
had in the desk drawer, I thanked Castro Pérez for their kindness
to me and threw me on the street.

XLII

Those twenty days were very
bitter for me. More than half a month without gaining weight! Our
costs had risen considerably, had to pay a maid, and was obliged to
buy I do not know why prescribing expensive medicines Sarmiento, and
wine of supreme class for the sick. Andrew, generous as ever, came
to my aid.

- Do not worry - I said - the tenducho goes a long way.
Take!

And handed me a roll of pesos.

I left the house of Castro
Pérez, besides annoying output seemed offensive to me my good name,
I got depressed and discouraged.

All those who saw me on the streets,
without occupation or employment, and before I saw the lawyer's office,
think, without doubt, that Castro Perez was fired for something I
embarrassing. Tell me to ponder on this, and I decided to stay at
home. I spent my day reading, writing and gardening. Plants that Angelina
and I had planted prospered to wonder, the roses recovered their lush
foliage, the tiller which was a violet glory, and the picture of "forget
me not" looked like a plush carpet.

One day, tired of spending time
within four walls, took his hat and went to gathering at the house
of Don Procopio. There were the teachers and the P. Solis. As soon
as I saw my critics began to smile as if to mock me as if I had remembered
since gold and blue in their newspapers.  Yes; I've three headaches going on in my head at the same time."

"Three headaches!"

"Yes, a rheumatic headache in my poll, a sick headache over my eyes, and a misery headache
in the middle of my brain.  However, I came out, for I thought you might be waiting and grumbling
like anything if I was not there."

The holes were already dug, and they set to work.  He put most of these roots towards the south-west;
for, he said, in forty years' time, when some great gale is blowing from that quarter, the
trees will require the strongest holdfast on that side to stand against it and not fall.

"How they sigh directly we put 'em upright, though while they are lying down they don't sigh
at all," said Marty.

"Do they?" said Giles.

"It seems to me," the girl continued, "as if they sigh because they are very sorry to begin
life in earnest--just as we be."

"Just as we be?" He looked critically at her.  "You ought not to feel like that, Marty."

Her only reply was turning to take up the next tree; and they planted on through a great part
of the day, almost without another word. Winterborne's mind ran on his contemplated evening-party,
his abstraction being such that he hardly was conscious of Marty's presence beside him.  From
the nature of their employment, in which he handled the spade and she merely held the tree,
it followed that he got good exercise and she got none.  But she was an heroic girl, and though
her out-stretched hand was chill as a stone, and her cheeks blue, and her cold worse than ever,
she would not complain while he was disposed to continue work.  But when he paused she said,
"Mr. Winterborne, can I run down the lane and back to warm my feet?"

"Why, yes, of course," he said, awakening anew to her existence. "Though I was just thinking
what a mild day it is for the season. Now I warrant that cold of yours is twice as bad as it
was.  You had no business to chop that hair off, Marty; it serves you almost right. Look here,
cut off home at once."

"A run down the lane will be quite enough."

"No, it won't.  You ought not to have come out to-day at all."

"But I should like to finish the--"

"Marty, I tell you to go home," said he, peremptorily.  "I can manage to keep the rest of them
upright with a stick or something."

She went away without saying any more.  When she had gone down the orchard a little distance
she looked back.  Giles suddenly went after her.

"Marty, it was for your good that I was rough, you know.  But warm yourself in your own way,
I don't care."

When she had run off he fancied he discerned a woman's dress through the holly-bushes which
divided the coppice from the road. It was Grace at last, on her way back from the interview
with Mrs. Charmond.  He threw down the tree he was planting, and was about to break through
the belt of holly when he suddenly became aware of the presence of another man, who was looking
over the hedge on the opposite side of the way upon the figure of the unconscious Grace.  He
appeared as a handsome and gentlemanly personage of six or eight and twenty, and was quizzing
her through an eye-glass. Seeing that Winterborne was noticing him, he let his glass drop with
a click upon the rail which protected the hedge, and walked away in the opposite direction.
Giles knew in a moment that this must be Mr. Fitzpiers.  When he was gone, Winterborne pushed
through the hollies, and emerged close beside the interesting object of their contemplation.

CHAPTER IX.

"I heard the bushes move long before I saw you," she began.  "I said first, 'it is some terrible
beast;' next, 'it is a poacher;' next, 'it is a friend!'"

He regarded her with a slight smile, weighing, not her speech, but the question whether he
should tell her that she had been watched. He decided in the negative.

"You have been to the house?" he said.  "But I need not ask." The fact was that there shone
upon Miss Melbury's face a species of exaltation, which saw no environing details nor his own
occupation; nothing more than his bare presence.

"Why need you not ask?"

"Your face is like the face of Moses when he came down from the Mount."

She reddened a little and said, "How can you be so profane, Giles Winterborne?"

"How can you think so much of that class of people? Well, I beg pardon; I didn't mean to speak
so freely.  How do you like her house and her?"

"Exceedingly.  I had not been inside the walls since I was a child, when it used to be let
to strangers, before Mrs. Charmond's late husband bought the property.  She is SO nice!" And
Grace fell into such an abstracted gaze at the imaginary image of Mrs. Charmond and her niceness
that it almost conjured up a vision of that lady in mid-air before them.

"She has only been here a month or two, it seems, and cannot stay much longer, because she
finds it so lonely and damp in winter. She is going abroad.  Only think, she would like me
to go with her."

Giles's features stiffened a little at the news.  "Indeed; what for? But I won't keep you standing
here.  Hoi, Robert!" he cried to a swaying collection of clothes in the distance, which was
the figure of Creedle his man.  "Go on filling in there till I come back."

"I'm a-coming, sir; I'm a-coming."

"Well, the reason is this," continued she, as they went on together--"Mrs. Charmond has a delightful
side to her character--a desire to record her impressions of travel, like Alexandre Dumas,
and Mery, and Sterne,  and others.  But she cannot find energy enough to do it herself." And
Grace proceeded to explain Mrs. Charmond's proposal at large.  "My notion is that Mery's style
will suit her best, because he writes in that soft, emotional, luxurious way she has," Grace
said, musingly.

"Indeed!" said Winterborne, with mock awe.  "Suppose you talk over my head a little longer,
Miss Grace Melbury?"

"Oh, I didn't mean it!" she said, repentantly, looking into his eyes. "And as for myself, I
hate French books.  And I love dear old Hintock, AND THE PEOPLE IN IT, fifty times better than
all the Continent.  But the scheme; I think it an enchanting notion, don't you, Giles?"

"It is well enough in one sense, but it will take yon away," said he, mollified.

"Only for a short time.  We should return in May."

"Well, Miss Melbury, it is a question for your father."

Winterborne walked with her nearly to her house.  He had awaited her coming, mainly with the
view of mentioning to her his proposal to have a Christmas party; but homely Christmas gatherings
in the venerable and jovial Hintock style seemed so primitive and uncouth beside the lofty
matters of her converse and thought that he refrained.

As soon as she was gone he turned back towards the scene of his planting, and could not help
saying to himself as he walked, that this engagement of his was a very unpromising business.
Her outing to-day had not improved it.  A woman who could go to Hintock House and be friendly
with its mistress, enter into the views of its mistress, talk like her, and dress not much
unlike her, why, she would hardly be contented with him, a yeoman, now immersed in tree-planting,
even though he planted them well.  "And yet she's a true-hearted girl," he said, thinking of
her words about Hintock.  "I must bring matters to a point, and there's an end of it."

When he reached the plantation he found that Marty had come back, and dismissing Creedle, he
went on planting silently with the girl as before.

"Suppose, Marty," he said, after a while, looking at her extended arm, upon which old scratches
from briers showed themselves purple in the cold wind--"suppose you know a person, and want
to bring that person to a good understanding with you, do you think a Christmas party of some
sort is a warming-up thing, and likely to be useful in hastening on the matter?"

"Is there to be dancing?"

"There might be, certainly."

"Will He dance with She?"

"Well, yes."

"Then it might bring things to a head, one way or the other; I won't be the one to say which."

"It shall be done," said Winterborne, not to her, though he spoke the words quite loudly. 
And as the day was nearly ended, he added, "Here, Marty, I'll send up a man to plant the rest
to-morrow.  I've other things to think of just now."

She did not inquire what other things, for she had seen him walking with Grace Melbury.  She
looked towards the western sky, which was now aglow like some vast foundery wherein new worlds
were being cast. Across it the bare bough of a tree stretched horizontally, revealing every
twig against the red, and showing in dark profile every beck and movement of three pheasants
that were settling themselves down on it in a row to roost.

"It will be fine to-morrow," said Marty, observing them with the vermilion light of the sun
in the pupils of her eyes, "for they are a-croupied down nearly at the end of the bough.  If
it were going to be stormy they'd squeeze close to the trunk.  The weather is almost all they
have to think of, isn't it, Mr. Winterborne? and so they must be lighter-hearted than we."

"I dare say they are," said Winterborne.

Before taking a single step in the preparations, Winterborne, with no great hopes, went across
that evening to the timber-merchant's to ascertain if Grace and her parents would honor him
with their presence. Having first to set his nightly gins in the garden, to catch the rabbits
that ate his winter-greens, his call was delayed till just after the rising of the moon, whose
rays reached the Hintock houses but fitfully as yet, on account of the trees. Melbury was crossing
his yard on his way to call on some one at the larger village, but he readily turned and walked
up and down the path with the young man.

Giles, in his self-deprecatory sense of living on a much smaller scale than the Melburys did,
would not for the world imply that his invitation was to a gathering of any importance.  So
he put it in the mild form of "Can you come in for an hour, when you have done business, the
day after to-morrow; and Mrs. and Miss Melbury, if they have nothing more pressing to do?"

Melbury would give no answer at once.  "No, I can't tell you to-day," he said.  "I must talk
it over with the women.  As far as I am concerned, my dear Giles, you know I'll come with pleasure.
But how do I know what Grace's notions may be?  You see, she has been away among cultivated
folks a good while; and now this acquaintance with Mrs. Charmond--Well, I'll ask her.  I can
say no more."

When Winterborne was gone the timber-merchant went on his way.  He knew very well that Grace,
whatever her own feelings, would either go or not go, according as he suggested; and his instinct
was, for the moment, to suggest the negative.  His errand took him past the church, and the
way to his destination was either across the church-yard or along-side it, the distances being
the same.  For some reason or other he chose the former way.

The moon was faintly lighting up the gravestones, and the path, and the front of the building.
Suddenly Mr. Melbury paused, turned ill upon the grass, and approached a particular headstone,
where he read, "In memory of John Winterborne," with the subjoined date and age.  It was the
grave of Giles's father.

The timber-merchant laid his hand upon the stone, and was humanized. "Jack, my wronged friend!"
he said.  "I'll be faithful to my plan of making amends to 'ee."

When he reached home that evening, he said to Grace and Mrs. Melbury, who were working at a
little table by the fire,

"Giles wants us to go down and spend an hour with him the day after to-morrow; and I'm thinking,
that as 'tis Giles who asks us, we'll go."

They assented without demur, and accordingly the timber-merchant sent Giles the next morning
an answer in the affirmative.

Winterborne, in his modesty, or indifference, had mentioned no particular hour in his invitation;
and accordingly Mr. Melbury and his family, expecting no other guests, chose their own time,
which chanced to be rather early in the afternoon, by reason of the somewhat quicker despatch
than usual of the timber-merchant's business that day.  To show their sense of the unimportance
of the occasion, they walked quite slowly to the house, as if they were merely out for a ramble,
and going to nothing special at all; or at most intending to pay a casual call and take a cup
of tea.

At this hour stir and bustle pervaded the interior of Winterborne's domicile from cellar to
apple-loft.  He had planned an elaborate high tea for six o'clock or thereabouts, and a good
roaring supper to come on about eleven.  Being a bachelor of rather retiring habits, the whole
of the preparations devolved upon himself and his trusty man and familiar, Robert Creedle,
who did everything that required doing, from making Giles's bed to catching moles in his field.
He was a survival from the days when Giles's father held the homestead, and Giles was a playing
boy.

These two, with a certain dilatoriousness which appertained to both, were now in the heat of
preparation in the bake-house, expecting nobody before six o'clock.  Winterborne was standing
before the brick oven in his shirt-sleeves, tossing in thorn sprays, and stirring about the
blazing mass with a long-handled, three-pronged Beelzebub kind of fork, the heat shining out
upon his streaming face and making his eyes like furnaces, the thorns crackling and sputtering;
while Creedle, having ranged the pastry dishes in a row on the table till the oven should be
ready, was pressing out the crust of a final apple-pie with a rolling-pin.  A great pot boiled
on the fire, and through the open door of the back kitchen a boy was seen seated on the fender,
emptying the snuffers and scouring the candlesticks, a row of the latter standing upside down
on the hob to melt out the grease.

Looking up from the rolling-pin, Creedle saw passing the window first the timber-merchant,
in his second-best suit, Mrs. Melbury in her best silk, and Grace in the fashionable attire
which, in part brought home with her from the Continent, she had worn on her visit to Mrs.
Charmond's.  The eyes of the three had been attracted to the proceedings within by the fierce
illumination which the oven threw out upon the operators and their utensils.

"Lord, Lord! if they baint come a'ready!" said Creedle.

"No--hey?" said Giles, looking round aghast; while the boy in the background waved a reeking
candlestick in his delight.  As there was no help for it, Winterborne went to meet them in
the door-way.

"My dear Giles, I see we have made a mistake in the time," said the timber-merchant's wife,
her face lengthening with concern.

"Oh, it is not much difference.  I hope you'll come in."

"But this means a regular randyvoo!" said Mr. Melbury, accusingly, glancing round and pointing
towards the bake-house with his stick.

"Well, yes," said Giles.

"And--not Great Hintock band, and dancing, surely?"

"I told three of 'em they might drop in if they'd nothing else to do," Giles mildly admitted.

"Now, why the name didn't ye tell us 'twas going to be a serious kind of thing before? How
should I know what folk mean if they don't say? Now, shall we come in, or shall we go home
and come back along in a couple of hours?"

"I hope you'll stay, if you'll be so good as not to mind, now you are here.  I shall have it
all right and tidy in a very little time.  I ought not to have been so backward." Giles spoke
quite anxiously for one of his undemonstrative temperament; for he feared that if the Melburys
once were back in their own house they would not be disposed to turn out again.

"'Tis we ought not to have been so forward; that's what 'tis," said Mr. Melbury, testily. 
"Don't keep us here in the sitting-room; lead on to the bakehouse, man.  Now we are here we'll
help ye get ready for the rest.  Here, mis'ess, take off your things, and help him out in his
baking, or he won't get done to-night. I'll finish heating the oven, and set you free to go
and skiver up them ducks." His eye had passed with pitiless directness of criticism into yet
remote recesses of Winterborne's awkwardly built premises, where the aforesaid birds were hanging.

"And I'll help finish the tarts," said Grace, cheerfully.

"I don't know about that," said her father.  "'Tisn't quite so much in your line as it is in
your mother-law's and mine."

"Of course I couldn't let you, Grace!" said Giles, with some distress.

"I'll do it, of course," said Mrs. Melbury, taking off her silk train, hanging it up to a nail,
carefully rolling back her sleeves, pinning them to her shoulders, and stripping Giles of his
apron for her own use.

So Grace pottered idly about, while her father and his wife helped on the preparations.  A
kindly pity of his household management, which Winterborne saw in her eyes whenever he caught
them, depressed him much more than her contempt would have done.

Creedle met Giles at the pump after a while, when each of the others was absorbed in the difficulties
of a cuisine based on utensils, cupboards, and provisions that were strange to them.  He groaned
to the young man in a whisper, "This is a bruckle het, maister, I'm much afeared!  Who'd ha'
thought they'd ha' come so soon?"

The bitter placidity of Winterborne's look adumbrated the misgivings he did not care to express.
"Have you got the celery ready?" he asked, quickly.

"Now that's a thing I never could mind; no, not if you'd paid me in silver and gold.  And I
don't care who the man is, I says that a stick of celery that isn't scrubbed with the scrubbing-brush
is not clean."

"Very well, very well!  I'll attend to it.  You go and get 'em comfortable in-doors."

He hastened to the garden, and soon returned, tossing the stalks to Creedle, who was still
in a tragic mood.  "If ye'd ha' married, d'ye see, maister," he said, "this caddle couldn't
have happened to us."

Everything being at last under way, the oven set, and all done that could insure the supper
turning up ready at some time or other, Giles and his friends entered the parlor, where the
Melburys again dropped into position as guests, though the room was not nearly so warm and
cheerful as the blazing bakehouse. Others now arrived, among them Farmer Bawtree and the hollow-turner,
and tea went off very well.

Grace's disposition to make the best of everything, and to wink at deficiencies in Winterborne's
menage, was so uniform and persistent that he suspected her of seeing even more deficiencies
than he was aware of.  That suppressed sympathy which had showed in her face ever since her
arrival told him as much too plainly.

"This muddling style of house-keeping is what you've not lately been used to, I suppose?" he
said, when they were a little apart.

"No; but I like it; it reminds me so pleasantly that everything here in dear old Hintock is
just as it used to be.  The oil is--not quite nice; but everything else is."

"The oil?"

"On the chairs, I mean; because it gets on one's dress.  Still, mine is not a new one."

Giles found that Creedle, in his zeal to make things look bright, had smeared the chairs with
some greasy kind of furniture-polish, and refrained from rubbing it dry in order not to diminish
the mirror-like effect that the mixture produced as laid on.  Giles apologized and called Creedle;
but he felt that the Fates were against him.

CHAPTER X.

Supper-time came, and with it the hot-baked from the oven, laid on a snowy cloth fresh from
the press, and reticulated with folds, as in Flemish "Last Suppers."  Creedle and the boy fetched
and carried with amazing alacrity, the latter, to mollify his superior and make things pleasant,
expressing his admiration of Creedle's cleverness when they were alone.

"I s'pose the time when you learned all these knowing things, Mr. Creedle, was when you was
in the militia?"

"Well, yes.  I seed the world at that time somewhat, certainly, and many ways of strange dashing
life.  Not but that Giles has worked hard in helping me to bring things to such perfection
to-day.  'Giles,' says I, though he's maister.  Not that I should call'n maister by rights,
for his father growed up side by side with me, as if one mother had twinned us and been our
nourishing."

"I s'pose your memory can reach a long way back into history, Mr. Creedle?"

"Oh yes.  Ancient days, when there was battles and famines and hang-fairs and other pomps,
seem to me as yesterday.  Ah, many's the patriarch I've seed come and go in this parish! There,
he's calling for more plates.  Lord, why can't 'em turn their plates bottom upward for pudding,
as they used to do in former days?"

Meanwhile, in the adjoining room Giles was presiding in a half-unconscious state.  He could
not get over the initial failures in his scheme for advancing his suit, and hence he did not
know that he was eating mouthfuls of bread and nothing else, and continually snuffing the two
candles next him till he had reduced them to mere glimmers drowned in their own grease.  Creedle
now appeared with a specially prepared dish, which he served by elevating the little three-legged
pot that contained it, and tilting the contents into a dish, exclaiming, simultaneously, "Draw
back, gentlemen and ladies, please!"

A splash followed.  Grace gave a quick, involuntary nod and blink, and put her handkerchief
to her face.

"Good heavens! what did you do that for, Creedle?" said Giles, sternly, and jumping up.

"'Tis how I do it when they baint here, maister," mildly expostulated Creedle, in an aside
audible to all the company.

"Well, yes--but--" replied Giles.  He went over to Grace, and hoped none of it had gone into
her eye.

"Oh no," she said.  "Only a sprinkle on my face.  It was nothing."

"Kiss it and make it well," gallantly observed Mr. Bawtree.

Miss Melbury blushed.

The timber-merchant said, quickly, "Oh, it is nothing! She must bear these little mishaps."
But there could be discerned in his face something which said "I ought to have foreseen this."

Giles himself, since the untoward beginning of the feast, had not quite liked to see Grace
present.  He wished he had not asked such people as Bawtree and the hollow-turner.  He had
done it, in dearth of other friends, that the room might not appear empty.  In his mind's eye,
before the event, they had been the mere background or padding of the scene, but somehow in
reality they were the most prominent personages there.

After supper they played cards, Bawtree and the hollow-turner monopolizing the new packs for
an interminable game, in which a lump of chalk was incessantly used--a game those two always
played wherever they were, taking a solitary candle and going to a private table in a corner
with the mien of persons bent on weighty matters.  The rest of the company on this account
were obliged to put up with old packs for their round game, that had been lying by in a drawer
ever since the time that Giles's grandmother was alive.  Each card had a great stain in the
middle of its back, produced by the touch of generations of damp and excited thumbs now fleshless
in the grave; and the kings and queens wore a decayed expression of feature, as if they were
rather an impecunious dethroned race of monarchs hiding in obscure slums than real regal characters.
Every now and then the comparatively few remarks of the players at the round game were harshly
intruded on by the measured jingle of Farmer Bawtree and the hollow-turner from the back of
the room:

    "And I' will hold' a wa'-ger with you'
     That all' these marks' are thirt'-y two!"

accompanied by rapping strokes with the chalk on the table; then an exclamation, an argument,
a dealing of the cards; then the commencement of the rhymes anew.

The timber-merchant showed his feelings by talking with a satisfied sense of weight in his
words, and by praising the party in a patronizing tone, when Winterborne expressed his fear
that he and his were not enjoying themselves.

"Oh yes, yes; pretty much. 

Alans are not satisfied with just the death of Roger, because at the same time attacked all the
Catalans and Aragonese, who were in his company, and the appalling death tore, Pachymeres and says that
he ordered his uncle Miguel Teodoro who detained the Alans and the other nations, with our bloods
bitter Adrianople left to slaughter all that topasen of our nation, which had housed many of
those villages, and that this was Michael because he feared that his people were not losers,
and do not lose momentum. This seems to me that clearly reveals the mind of Michael, who was
no doubt of finishing them all. All the people on board was attacked acaballo all Catalans and
Aragonese within the city, and beyond, but some injured and abused took up arms, and lost their remaining
life with equal damage the enemy. Only three men escaped of this pitiful tragedy, since Nicephore
says, who escaped the most part. The one Ramon called Alquen, son of Gilabert natural Alquen Castellon
de Ampurias, the other two Guillen was Tous, and Berenguer de Roudor de Llobregat, although
others did not die then were then placed in irons, and then most cruelly burned, and then refer
by Pachymeres relationship. These three men won valiant defending a church, and the most vigorous
in it, they had to remove it to a tower, fighting from despair so high that it was not possible,
efforts were made to chew, or kill them pay them. Miguel after running his ruthlessness, wanted
to earn a reputation for compassionate and gracious, and so ordered that no one offend them, and
gave them safe conduct to return to Gallipoli. Nicephore Montaner differs somewhat from that
fact, because he says that Roger was with only two hundred horses to Adrianople, and not just be
with Miguel, and give an account of what had been determined on war, as Montaner writes, but to
ask for money, and when he refuses let them take it by force. These are words of Nicephore, and
to what I can understand such with little agreement on what previously had referred, that Michael
was in Adrianople with a powerful army and a captain does not seem as wise as Roger, whom the
Greeks call them, whenever occasion offers, a man of great wisdom, so much nonsense hiciese, as
go out with only three hundred horsemen to threaten an Emperor, who was in of a large city, with
a powerful army.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

The warriors discovered taking up arms against the Greeks, and in
different parts Empire of the Catalans and Aragonese kill.

The warriors who were with Berenguer de Entenza and Rocafort, seemed to entice the last Andronico
means that they pay. Sent three ambassadors to the Emperor, so resolutely tell him that if within fifteen
days they came with no part of what they are due, I was forced to depart from their service,
to lead their weapons achieve what his reason and justice could neck. Emperor received the three
ambassadors, who were Rodrigo Santa Cruz Perez, Arnaldo de Moncortes, and Ferrer Torrellas, and
in the presence of most part of its members and ministers, and very harshly said, that the Greek
Empire was not so utterly destroyed, that could not raise powerful armies to punish his daring and
defiance, and although there were many services that had been done in the war East, and had
erased its excesses and excesses, and with little respect and obedience they had to his crown:
he would do what was played and reason, in the rest advised them, not to rush desperately to what
they were so bad, and not with pidiesen the violence that they could deny it, that loyalty they
so prided was lost, if the grants were requested by force to their Prince. Without wanting
to hear his response, or lead to more satisfaction, he sent the Emperor, who agree to be resolved
with more and talk to him. Within a few days later came the news to the death of Constantinople
Roger, and some cruelties that our people were at Gallipoli, and the people rose against the
Catalans, Pachymeres says, but referred Montaner, who at the same time in all cities of the
Empire was beheaded by order of the Catalans Andronico, and Miguel. Perhaps in this walk something
passionate Montaner, attributing all the blame to the Emperors; but what I have certainly
irritated the people executed this evil and they do not address it.

In Constantinople, the people rose, and rushed into the barracks to
do were the Catalans, as if they were to hunt wild animals were beheading
and killing them by the City.

After slaughtered many, went to Raul Paqueo house, a relative of Andronico, and father of Ferdinand
Aones the Admiral, and asked the people who then gave them what was inside the Catalans; and because
this was not done as soon as they wanted, set fire to the house that had burned everything
inside, and certainly I have here the three ambassadors and Admiral perished. The Patriarch of Constantinople
came to suppress the riotous crowd, and without very dangerous indeed retired. The greatest
difficulty was offered for not being able to push the Catalans all at once, because it was well
defended Gallipoli, and those who were staying in villages with weapons in hand, and more adbertidos
that the others were in different parts.

Miguel Gallipoli fearing the death of Roger known not attacked, he ordered Primicerio was great
with all the main army on Gallipoli.

Ejecutóse course, and with lighter cavalry were sent out Captains, so they attacked before
that could be called. They took to the bulk divided by their housing, their beds, and high
break, because between them they had for friends seemed futile care saved. Entered this horse
for a few pairs, through the rigor of the sword Aragonese and Catalan all that ran. The voices
and moans of those who cruelly lacerate and kill, warn many could be put in safe and greed of the
conquerors that engaged in theft left to kill, also led to many from escaping. In Gallipoli
home away from noise and felt confused voices, with which they took our weapons, and wanted
to leave the campaign to recognize and certify the damage feared, but Berenguer de Entenza and the other
captains halted the momentum of the soldiers, who in any case wanted give them out free, and as the
obedience of those people was not at the point you should not dare to send some troops Berenguer
to beat the roads and take language because they feared he would follow behind the rest of the
people, and would be defenseless Gallipoli, whose conservation hung joint health.

Variously between ours ran the fuss in the campaigns and farmhouses Gallipoli neighbors. They said
about the Greeks oppressed military people would have conjured and taken up arms to achieve their
freedom, others through that narrow space sea, the Turks, undertook
no doubt to our barracks, but in this variety of discourses could
never hit upon the truth of such an inhuman event.

Through the night and some confusion in the case of us came to Gallipoli free, and only gave news
that in their homes, in their seats, had been seized with military people and armed.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Berenguer de Entenza, and those who were in Gallipoli, known Roger's death, behead all the neighbors
of Gallipoli, and the enemy camp sites.

While this agitation had some notice of the death of Roger, and the universal slaughter of the Catalans
and Aragonese in Adrianople, and boards in the region of Gallipoli
was executed by order of Michael.

It was so much anger and courage of the Catalans, who says Nicephore and agrees with him Pachymeres,
although silent Montaner, killing all neighbors Gallipoli, sparing to sex or age, and more expensive
Pachymeres the inhumanity of the case by saying; that even children impaled, fierce and evil abominable
if it was true, though one may doubt enemy to be Greek and the Author. But if any occurs over
the apology was in this, because the momentum of the executed anger against the Greeks who were in
front, in satisfaction of a larger cruelty done by them with little agreement without cause. From
Now everything was cruel rage and fury of resentatives parties, it seems that the war not to
men but among beasts. But without doubt that the atrocities of the Greeks exceeded without comparison
to those that made the Catalans, they never violated the law of the people, not offend their
enemies under the word, no insurance, although in other things our people have been really
more than enough, and have not kept the laws of a just war, but the occasion of this was not
to like save the Greeks, that are sufficiently excused the Catalans and Aragonese in this part,
because the war necessarily had to do with equality. Captains were assembled with confusion
and feeling sick to try to remedy. They were in a state so pitiful that even the enemies of pity
could misery. Lost all its services, some time thought that achieve quiet and rest; lost the reputation
for punishment, because he had given occasion for the whole world they had in a little, because
after so many victories deserved this award, largely dead of his friends, and his death in the
eyes.

Gallipoli found ourselves at the time without supplies, without any fortifications when the
enemy that persons close to the number of thirty thousand foot, and fourteen thousand horse among
the three countries of Turkish Greeks, and Greeks Alans got almost
on its walls, threatening to ours a pitiful end, for the Emperor Michael
with the forces that could in Thracia and Macedonia to most of the
people who usually pay the Empire had, and to give out more heat of
Adrianople, and went to Panphilo, and then sent the Grand Duke Basil
Eteriarca, and Humberto Bausi Palor great to Brachial near Gallipoli,
to tighten over the fences.

The first resolution that was taken was to fortify the suburbs, because the enemy does not occupy,
and do not come without losing people and time, covered with houses, to our trenches and walls,
although this did not stop having great difficulty because the space of the suburbs, and uneven
in its defense of the small number of our people. This done, they resolved to send Ambassadors
to the Emperor Andronicus, in the name of our whole nation will depart from their service, and
you retasen, for one hundred to one hundred, or ten to ten as the use of those times fought
in satisfaction of their grievance, and the ignominious death of Roger, and yours, so treacherously
made his son Miguel, and other Greeks. Enviáronse a Montaner gentleman named Sisco, and to
Pedro Lopez Adalid, and two Almugavares, and many others sailors, who were of all differences
of militia who were in our army, and this was before they knew at Gallipoli the death of three
former ambassadors, who were by order of Berenguer de Entenza. While awaiting the final resolution
Andronico by these Ambassadors, the powerful enemy in the campaign pulled the site of Gallipoli
and ours with its usual value, with exits and regular skirmishes wearied him and stopped.

CHAPTER XXX.

Have our advice, it follows that of Berenguer de Entenza, not the best, but be the most powerful.

Was
between the captains of Gallipoli different opinions on how to make war; and so agreed that
the principal leaders came together in council to resolve. Berenguer de Entenza said, if the
value and effort of men like us were born, friends and colleagues, in some work and unhappiness
may be missing, I think certainly it was in which we now suffer, as the largest and most cruel
human variety that usually afflict mortals, being persecuted, mistreated
and killed, for which we should be protected and defended.

What which served as the victories, so much bloodshed, so many provinces
acquired, if at the time just reward was expected due to many services,
with barbaric cruelty runs against us, what we see, and just give
credit?

For more lucky judge of our colleagues who died without feeling the injury, as ours of which
we have to perish so vivid feeling, for stop taking satisfaction
of many offenses, and retire to the country, would be unworthy of
our name, and reputation for many years we have maintained, nor We
receive relatives and friends at home, and she knew us by children,
if our dead companions treacherously not attempt revenge, and will
erase our enemies' blood affront.

The few forces that are stoked with the grievance, the more power could oppose, and most favored
of the reason that so clearly is on our side. Your mind the difficulty becomes invincible courage,
and the greatest danger, the more effort. Asia was the free from the restraint of the Turks by our
weapons, our reputation and fame as well as must be for them, and if Greece wins admiration of
so many today feel the rigor of your sword that could not hold in his favor and defense. Everyone
must have at lost, or at least sailing around Sicily with the ships and galleys that remain;
but the damage they disappointed, that neither the spirit that I acovardó, or the grievance before
her revenge allowed our return. Defender to Gallipoli, is what matters to us now, being at
the entrance Strait, where you can prevent browsing and treatment of these seas, where no corriere
armed by them superior to ours, and so is forced to find supplies and money to support. The
relief we have far, slow, and perhaps dubious, because our Reyes occupy other care more neighbors.
Princes and nations all around us are enemies, do not expect another relief but these ships
and galleys that remain may be accessed from our opponents. This will do two important things, seek
support we will now missing, and divert the enemy of the site that squeezes us so much, and
since war is to be made as already determined, it is well to be somewhere where the enemy are
not as superior, and can more easily achieve a victory, so that credit and reputation of our
arms vulva to its proper place and esteem. The coasts of these provinces neighbors live without
fear, thinking that our forces are not enough to defend at Gallipoli, and as the site last
not leave these walls. This neglect seems which gives us an occasion some of them much harm,
if our galleys and ships Addressing these islands and coasts of the Empire, and since I am
the author of the advice, I will be the execution. At the last words of Berenguer de Entenza Rocafort
rose to face and voice altered, his mind busy signals of anger and revenge, he said, feeling and
passion with which I am for the death of Roger, and our captains and friends, not much disturbance
of the voice and face, then turn the mood for a honest and fair satisfaction. For strict our
offense, rather than by reason, we should make resolution today, because in such chaos and
low readiness are often useful consideration when consultations often difficult. Retreating to
his country wanes and our name would reproach, until our revenge would be so marked and terrible
as it was the perfidy and treachery of the Greeks; and so at this point feel Berenguer de Entenza,
but it touches on the way to make the I contradict counter war, because it seems to me remarkable
mistake to divide our forces, which together are small and unequal power of the enemy to besiege
us. I am certainly and constant Berenguer steal, destroy, and open the coasts around as he offers,
"but who can say that while he be running the seas, the few that remain at Gallipoli are not lost?
And then to where you can Berenguer its navy, where the spoils your victory? Is not no place is as
safe to Sicily, for I and I have more certain the Gallipoli lost if he'll get the people in
his defense to the army garrison, that certain of victory. All famous captains get the most care
to help a square that the enemy is under siege, and for this venture not only the best and
the entire their field, but all his strength? What is still within Berenguer out? Who says
the soldier that his leg has to be to return? The common fear and suspicion can not be removed,
blood and clear facts but are safe for those born garments like him. Our revenge remedies requested
is no longer so cautious and doubtful, nor to the Us we should expand the war before being
little less, execute wrath. Venture into a trance and endanger our life, and so my final opinion
is, we go out in the field, and must battle those who ahead.

And although the crowd of the enemy can be more certain than death victory, just cause to move
our arms, and the same value as the Turks defeated winners of the Greeks, can also give comfianza
to break his copious squadrons and bring down their battered eagles as their moons, and when
in this battle have been determined our view, be worthy of our glory that the last term of life
we ​​find the sword in hand, and engaged in destruction and damage of such perfidious people.
Prevalió latter apparently in the votes of those who were consulted as the more soon, though
more dangerous, and more gallantry, but the power of Berenguer de Entenza, more so than Rocafort
did not result in the execution that was the most determined. And Ramon Montaner and says, that
the prayers of many reasons and not able to change his mind.

In this medium had notice that the Infante Don Sancho of Aragon had come with ten galleys King
of Sicily to Metellin and go to the archipelago, and more neighbors Gallipoli. Berenguer de
Entenza and the other captains then sent to Gallipoli came to beg, to take away the homage and
oath of loyalty to the King of Sicily. They urged their danger and Aragon discredit the name
if you do not give aid, subjects that had become so famous and so great. Don Sancho was then his
resolution given the desire of your property and conservation. Medellín left with ten galleys
and came to Gallipoli, where he was received with universal applause, thinking it would help
them to take complete satisfaction of their grievances, serving with some of the few supplies
and money they had, and no clear obligation to obey, all recognized
him by his head.

CHAPTER XXXI.

The ambassadors of our army's return to Constantinople by order of the Emperor were prisoners
and cruelly killed Rodesto City.

From our nation sent ambassadors to break the concerts had to Emperor, and made it to challenge,
with much danger came to Constantinople, and since, to the bailiff of Venice, and the power of
Genoa and of the Consuls of Anconitanos and Pisani, magistrates and
heads of these nations had treatment and communication in the Provinces
Empire, gave the following apparent.

Who knowing that by order of Emperor Anthrone, and their son Michael in Adrianople, and in other
places of the empire, they had slaughtered all the Aragonese and Catalans were found in them, both
soldiers and merchants, they live under your protection and protection for which the Catalans
and Aragonese satisfacion Gallipoli were determined to die, and who believed in both his faith
and word, they wanted break before the war, consisting, as speaking on behalf of all his nation
was Apart from the concerts and made alliances with the Emperor, and thus, the public instruments
from then on were invalid and of no value, and challenged him a traitor, and offered to defend
the field, a hundred to one hundred, or ten to ten, and waiting on God their swords would be
the instrument to punish his justice case as ugly as most of them violating the public faith, killing
foreigners who sought peaceful and careless in their land had been
cruel and disgraceful death, whom they had delivered it, defended
their provinces, killed their enemies, and enlarged his empire.

The insolence of the soldiers was not enough reason to run against
them as inhuman resolution.

Castigáranse As the soldiers blame their crimes, even though its services will serve to moderate
worthwhile.

Diéranles ships, and to return to his country, that punishment was enough to send without reward,
but no sex or age pardon by taking even innocent and guilty, ill and good, had been very cruel.


"You would like to have more honor, if it pleases me?" asked her father, in continuation of
the subject.

Despite her feeling she assented to this.  His reasoning had not been without its weight upon her.

"Grace," he said, just before they had reached the house, "if it costs me my life you shall
marry well! To-day has shown me that whatever a young woman's niceness, she stands for nothing
alone. You shall marry well."

He breathed heavily, and his breathing was caught up by the breeze, which seemed to sigh a
soft remonstrance.

She looked calmly at him.  "And how about Mr. Winterborne?" she asked. "I mention it, father,
not as a matter of sentiment, but as a question of keeping faith."

The timber-merchant's eyes fell for a moment.  "I don't know--I don't know," he said.  "'Tis
a trying strait.  Well, well; there's no hurry. We'll wait and see how he gets on."

That evening he called her into his room, a snug little apartment behind the large parlor.
It had at one time been part of the bakehouse, with the ordinary oval brick oven in the wall;
but Mr. Melbury, in turning it into an office, had built into the cavity an iron safe, which
he used for holding his private papers.  The door of the safe was now open, and his keys were
hanging from it.

"Sit down, Grace, and keep me company," he said.  "You may amuse yourself by looking over these."
He threw out a heap of papers before her.

"What are they?" she asked.

"Securities of various sorts." He unfolded them one by one. "Papers worth so much money each.
Now here's a lot of turnpike bonds for one thing.  Would you think that each of these pieces
of paper is worth two hundred pounds?"

"No, indeed, if you didn't say so."

"'Tis so, then.  Now here are papers of another sort.  They are for different sums in the three-per-cents.
Now these are Port Breedy Harbor bonds.  We have a great stake in that harbor, you know, because
I send off timber there.  Open the rest at your pleasure.  They'll interest ye."

"Yes, I will, some day," said she, rising.

"Nonsense, open them now.  You ought to learn a little of such matters. A young lady of education
should not be ignorant of money affairs altogether.  Suppose you should be left a widow some
day, with your husband's title-deeds and investments thrown upon your hands--"

"Don't say that, father--title-deeds; it sounds so vain!"

"It does not.  Come to that, I have title-deeds myself.  There, that piece of parchment represents
houses in Sherton Abbas."

"Yes, but--" She hesitated, looked at the fire, and went on in a low voice: "If what has been
arranged about me should come to anything, my sphere will be quite a middling one."

"Your sphere ought not to be middling," he exclaimed, not in passion, but in earnest conviction.
"You said you never felt more at home, more in your element, anywhere than you did that afternoon
with Mrs. Charmond, when she showed you her house and all her knick-knacks, and made you stay
to tea so nicely in her drawing-room--surely you did!"

"Yes, I did say so," admitted Grace.

"Was it true?"

"Yes, I felt so at the time.  The feeling is less strong now, perhaps."

"Ah! Now, though you don't see it, your feeling at the time was the right one, because your
mind and body were just in full and fresh cultivation, so that going there with her was like
meeting like.  Since then you've been biding with us, and have fallen back a little, and so
you don't feel your place so strongly.  Now, do as I tell ye, and look over these papers and
see what you'll be worth some day.  For they'll all be yours, you know; who have I got to leave
'em to but you? Perhaps when your education is backed up by what these papers represent, and
that backed up by another such a set and their owner, men such as that fellow was this morning
may think you a little more than a buffer's girl."

So she did as commanded, and opened each of the folded representatives of hard cash that her
father put before her.  To sow in her heart cravings for social position was obviously his
strong desire, though in direct antagonism to a better feeling which had hitherto prevailed
with him, and had, indeed, only succumbed that morning during the ramble.

She wished that she was not his worldly hope; the responsibility of such a position was too
great.  She had made it for herself mainly by her appearance and attractive behavior to him
since her return.  "If I had only come home in a shabby dress, and tried to speak roughly,
this might not have happened," she thought.  She deplored less the fact than the sad possibilities
that might lie hidden therein.

Her father then insisted upon her looking over his checkbook and reading the counterfoils.
This, also, she obediently did, and at last came to two or three which had been drawn to defray
some of the late expenses of her clothes, board, and education.

"I, too, cost a good deal, like the horses and wagons and corn," she said, looking up sorrily.

"I didn't want you to look at those; I merely meant to give you an idea of my investment transactions.
But if you do cost as much as they, never mind.  You'll yield a better return."

"Don't think of me like that!" she begged.  "A mere chattel."

"A what? Oh, a dictionary word.  Well, as that's in your line I don't forbid it, even if it
tells against me," he said, good-humoredly.  And he looked her proudly up and down.

A few minutes later Grammer Oliver came to tell them that supper was ready, and in giving the
information she added, incidentally, "So we shall soon lose the mistress of Hintock House for
some time, I hear, Maister Melbury.  Yes, she's going off to foreign parts to-morrow, for the
rest of the winter months; and be-chok'd if I don't wish I could do the same, for my wynd-pipe
is furred like a flue."

When the old woman had left the room, Melbury turned to his daughter and said, "So, Grace,
you've lost your new friend, and your chance of keeping her company and writing her travels
is quite gone from ye!"

Grace said nothing.

"Now," he went on, emphatically, "'tis Winterborne's affair has done this.  Oh yes, 'tis. 
So let me say one word.  Promise me that you will not meet him again without my knowledge."

"I never do meet him, father, either without your knowledge or with it."

"So much the better.  I don't like the look of this at all.  And I say it not out of harshness
to him, poor fellow, but out of tenderness to you.  For how could a woman, brought up delicately
as you have been, bear the roughness of a life with him?"

She sighed; it was a sigh of sympathy with Giles, complicated by a sense of the intractability
of circumstances.

At that same hour, and almost at that same minute, there was a conversation about Winterborne
in progress in the village street, opposite Mr. Melbury's gates, where Timothy Tangs the elder
and Robert Creedle had accidentally met.

The sawyer was asking Creedle if he had heard what was all over the parish, the skin of his
face being drawn two ways on the matter--towards brightness in respect of it as news, and towards
concern in respect of it as circumstance.

"Why, that poor little lonesome thing, Marty South, is likely to lose her father.  He was almost
well, but is much worse again.  A man all skin and grief he ever were, and if he leave Little
Hintock for a better land, won't it make some difference to your Maister Winterborne, neighbor
Creedle?"

"Can I be a prophet in Israel?" said Creedle.  "Won't it! I was only shaping of such a thing
yesterday in my poor, long-seeing way, and all the work of the house upon my one shoulders!
You know what it means? It is upon John South's life that all Mr. Winterborne's houses hang.
If so be South die, and so make his decease, thereupon the law is that the houses fall without
the least chance of absolution into HER hands at the House.  I told him so; but the words of
the faithful be only as wind!"

CHAPTER XIII.

The news was true.  The life--the one fragile life--that had been used as a measuring-tape
of time by law, was in danger of being frayed away. It was the last of a group of lives which
had served this purpose, at the end of whose breathings the small homestead occupied by South
himself, the larger one of Giles Winterborne, and half a dozen others that had been in the
possession of various Hintock village families for the previous hundred years, and were now
Winterborne's, would fall in and become part of the encompassing estate.

Yet a short two months earlier Marty's father, aged fifty-five years, though something of a
fidgety, anxious being, would have been looked on as a man whose existence was so far removed
from hazardous as any in the parish, and as bidding fair to be prolonged for another quarter
of a century.

Winterborne walked up and down his garden next day thinking of the contingency.  The sense
that the paths he was pacing, the cabbage-plots, the apple-trees, his dwelling, cider-cellar,
wring-house, stables, and weathercock, were all slipping away over his head and beneath his
feet, as if they were painted on a magic-lantern slide, was curious.  In spite of John South's
late indisposition he had not anticipated danger.  To inquire concerning his health had been
to show less sympathy than to remain silent, considering the material interest he possessed
in the woodman's life, and he had, accordingly, made a point of avoiding Marty's house.

While he was here in the garden somebody came to fetch him.  It was Marty herself, and she
showed her distress by her unconsciousness of a cropped poll.

"Father is still so much troubled in his mind about that tree," she said.  "You know the tree
I mean, Mr. Winterborne? the tall one in front of the house, that he thinks will blow down
and kill us.  Can you come and see if you can persuade him out of his notion? I can do nothing."

He accompanied her to the cottage, and she conducted him upstairs. John South was pillowed
up in a chair between the bed and the window exactly opposite the latter, towards which his
face was turned.

"Ah, neighbor Winterborne," he said.  "I wouldn't have minded if my life had only been my own
to lose; I don't vallie it in much of itself, and can let it go if 'tis required of me.  But
to think what 'tis worth to you, a young man rising in life, that do trouble me! It seems a
trick of dishonesty towards ye to go off at fifty-five! I could bear up, I know I could, if
it were not for the tree--yes, the tree, 'tis that's killing me.  There he stands, threatening
my life every minute that the wind do blow.  He'll come down upon us and squat us dead; and
what will ye do when the life on your property is taken away?"

"Never you mind me--that's of no consequence," said Giles.  "Think of yourself alone."

He looked out of the window in the direction of the woodman's gaze. The tree was a tall elm,
familiar to him from childhood, which stood at a distance of two-thirds its own height from
the front of South's dwelling.  Whenever the wind blew, as it did now, the tree rocked, naturally
enough; and the sight of its motion and sound of its sighs had gradually bred the terrifying
illusion in the woodman's mind that it would descend and kill him.  Thus he would sit all day,
in spite of persuasion, watching its every sway, and listening to the melancholy Gregorian
melodies which the air wrung out of it.  This fear it apparently was, rather than any organic
disease which was eating away the health of John South.

As the tree waved, South waved his head, making it his flugel-man with abject obedience.  "Ah,
when it was quite a small tree," he said, "and I was a little boy, I thought one day of chopping
it off with my hook to make a clothes-line prop with.  But I put off doing it, and then I again
thought that I would; but I forgot it, and didn't.  And at last it got too big, and now 'tis
my enemy, and will be the death o' me. Little did I think, when I let that sapling stay, that
a time would come when it would torment me, and dash me into my grave."

"No, no," said Winterborne and Marty, soothingly.  But they thought it possible that it might
hasten him into his grave, though in another way than by falling.

"I tell you what," added Winterborne, "I'll climb up this afternoon and shroud off the lower
boughs, and then it won't be so heavy, and the wind won't affect it so."

"She won't allow it--a strange woman come from nobody knows where--she won't have it done."

"You mean Mrs. Charmond?  Oh, she doesn't know there's such a tree on her estate.  Besides,
shrouding is not felling, and I'll risk that much."

He went out, and when afternoon came he returned, took a billhook from the woodman's shed,
and with a ladder climbed into the lower part of the tree, where he began lopping off--"shrouding,"
as they called it at Hintock--the lowest boughs.  Each of these quivered under his attack,
bent, cracked, and fell into the hedge.  Having cut away the lowest tier, he stepped off the
ladder, climbed a few steps higher, and attacked those at the next level.  Thus he ascended
with the progress of his work far above the top of the ladder, cutting away his perches as
he went, and leaving nothing but a bare stem below him.

The work was troublesome, for the tree was large.  The afternoon wore on, turning dark and
misty about four o'clock.  From time to time Giles cast his eyes across towards the bedroom
window of South, where, by the flickering fire in the chamber, he could see the old man watching
him, sitting motionless with a hand upon each arm of the chair.  Beside him sat Marty, also
straining her eyes towards the skyey field of his operations.

A curious question suddenly occurred to Winterborne, and he stopped his chopping.  He was operating
on another person's property to prolong the years of a lease by whose termination that person
would considerably benefit.  In that aspect of the case he doubted if he ought to go on. On
the other hand he was working to save a man's life, and this seemed to empower him to adopt
arbitrary measures.

The wind had died down to a calm, and while he was weighing the circumstances he saw coming
along the road through the increasing mist a figure which, indistinct as it was, he knew well.
It was Grace Melbury, on her way out from the house, probably for a short evening walk before
dark.  He arranged himself for a greeting from her, since she could hardly avoid passing immediately
beneath the tree.

But Grace, though she looked up and saw him, was just at that time too full of the words of
her father to give him any encouragement. The years-long regard that she had had for him was
not kindled by her return into a flame of sufficient brilliancy to make her rebellious. Thinking
that she might not see him, he cried, "Miss Melbury, here I am."

She looked up again.  She was near enough to see the expression of his face, and the nails
in his soles, silver-bright with constant walking. But she did not reply; and dropping her
glance again, went on.

Winterborne's face grew strange; he mused, and proceeded automatically with his work.  Grace
meanwhile had not gone far. She had reached a gate, whereon she had leaned sadly, and whispered
to herself, "What shall I do?"

A sudden fog came on, and she curtailed her walk, passing under the tree again on her return.
Again he addressed her.  "Grace," he said, when she was close to the trunk, "speak to me."
She shook her head without stopping, and went on to a little distance, where she stood observing
him from behind the hedge.

Her coldness had been kindly meant.  If it was to be done, she had said to herself, it should
be begun at once.  While she stood out of observation Giles seemed to recognize her meaning;
with a sudden start he worked on, climbing higher, and cutting himself off more and more from
all intercourse with the sublunary world. At last he had worked himself so high up the elm,
and the mist had so thickened, that he could only just be discerned as a dark-gray spot on
the light-gray sky: he would have been altogether out of notice but for the stroke of his billhook
and the flight of a bough downward, and its crash upon the hedge at intervals.

It was not to be done thus, after all: plainness and candor were best. She went back a third
time; he did not see her now, and she lingeringly gazed up at his unconscious figure, loath
to put an end to any kind of hope that might live on in him still. "Giles--  Mr. Winterborne,"
she said.

He was so high amid the fog that he did not hear.  "Mr. Winterborne!" she cried again, and
this time he stopped, looked down, and replied.

"My silence just now was not accident," she said, in an unequal voice. "My father says it is
best not to think too much of that--engagement, or understanding between us, that you know
of.  I, too, think that upon the whole he is right.  But we are friends, you know, Giles, and
almost relations."

"Very well," he answered, as if without surprise, in a voice which barely reached down the
tree.  "I have nothing to say in objection--I cannot say anything till I've thought a while."

She added, with emotion in her tone, "For myself, I would have married you--some day--I think.
But I give way, for I see it would be unwise."

He made no reply, but sat back upon a bough, placed his elbow in a fork, and rested his head
upon his hand.  Thus he remained till the fog and the night had completely enclosed him from
her view.

Grace heaved a divided sigh, with a tense pause between, and moved onward, her heart feeling
uncomfortably big and heavy, and her eyes wet.  Had Giles, instead of remaining still, immediately
come down from the tree to her, would she have continued in that filial acquiescent frame of
mind which she had announced to him as final? If it be true, as women themselves have declared,
that one of their sex is never so much inclined to throw in her lot with a man for good and
all as five minutes after she has told him such a thing cannot be, the probabilities are that
something might have been done by the appearance of Winterborne on the ground beside Grace.
But he continued motionless and silent in that gloomy Niflheim or fog-land which involved him,
and she proceeded on her way.

The spot seemed now to be quite deserted.  The light from South's window made rays on the fog,
but did not reach the tree.  A quarter of an hour passed, and all was blackness overhead. 
Giles had not yet come down.

Then the tree seemed to shiver, then to heave a sigh; a movement was audible, and Winterborne
dropped almost noiselessly to the ground.  He had thought the matter out, and having returned
the ladder and billhook to their places, pursued his way homeward.  He would not allow this
incident to affect his outer conduct any more than the danger to his leaseholds had done, and
went to bed as usual.  Two simultaneous troubles do not always make a double trouble; and thus
it came to pass that Giles's practical anxiety about his houses, which would have been enough
to keep him awake half the night at any other time, was displaced and not reinforced by his
sentimental trouble about Grace Melbury.  This severance was in truth more like a burial of
her than a rupture with her; but he did not realize so much at present; even when he arose
in the morning he felt quite moody and stern: as yet the second note in the gamut of such emotions,
a tender regret for his loss, had not made itself heard.

A load of oak timber was to be sent away that morning to a builder whose works were in a town
many miles off.  The proud trunks were taken up from the silent spot which had known them through
the buddings and sheddings of their growth for the foregoing hundred years; chained down like
slaves to a heavy timber carriage with enormous red wheels, and four of the most powerful of
Melbury's horses were harnessed in front to draw them.

The horses wore their bells that day.  There were sixteen to the team, carried on a frame above
each animal's shoulders, and tuned to scale, so as to form two octaves, running from the highest
note on the right or off-side of the leader to the lowest on the left or near-side of the shaft-horse.
Melbury was among the last to retain horse-bells in that neighborhood; for, living at Little
Hintock, where the lanes yet remained as narrow as before the days of turnpike roads, these
sound-signals were still as useful to him and his neighbors as they had ever been in former
times.  Much backing was saved in the course of a year by the warning notes they cast ahead;
moreover, the tones of all the teams in the district being known to the carters of each, they
could tell a long way off on a dark night whether they were about to encounter friends or strangers.

The fog of the previous evening still lingered so heavily over the woods that the morning could
not penetrate the trees till long after its time.  The load being a ponderous one, the lane
crooked, and the air so thick, Winterborne set out, as he often did, to accompany the team
as far as the corner, where it would turn into a wider road.

So they rumbled on, shaking the foundations of the roadside cottages by the weight of their
progress, the sixteen bells chiming harmoniously over all, till they had risen out of the valley
and were descending towards the more open route, the sparks rising from their creaking skid
and nearly setting fire to the dead leaves alongside.

Then occurred one of the very incidents against which the bells were an endeavor to guard.
Suddenly there beamed into their eyes, quite close to them, the two lamps of a carriage, shorn
of rays by the fog.  Its approach had been quite unheard, by reason of their own noise.  The
carriage was a covered one, while behind it could be discerned another vehicle laden with luggage.

Winterborne went to the head of the team, and heard the coachman telling the carter that he
must turn back.  The carter declared that this was impossible.

"You can turn if you unhitch your string-horses," said the coachman.

"It is much easier for you to turn than for us," said Winterborne. "We've five tons of timber
on these wheels if we've an ounce."

"But I've another carriage with luggage at my back."

Winterborne admitted the strength of the argument.  "But even with that," he said, "you can
back better than we.  And you ought to, for you could hear our bells half a mile off."

"And you could see our lights."

"We couldn't, because of the fog."

"Well, our time's precious," said the coachman, haughtily.  "You are only going to some trumpery
little village or other in the neighborhood, while we are going straight to Italy."

"Driving all the way, I suppose," said Winterborne, sarcastically.

The argument continued in these terms till a voice from the interior of the carriage inquired
what was the matter.  It was a lady's.

She was briefly informed of the timber people's obstinacy; and then Giles could hear her telling
the footman to direct the timber people to turn their horses' heads.

The message was brought, and Winterborne sent the bearer back to say that he begged the lady's
pardon, but that he could not do as she requested; that though he would not assert it to be
impossible, it was impossible by comparison with the slight difficulty to her party to back
their light carriages.  As fate would have it, the incident with Grace Melbury on the previous
day made Giles less gentle than he might otherwise have shown himself, his confidence in the
sex being rudely shaken.

In fine, nothing could move him, and the carriages were compelled to back till they reached
one of the sidings or turnouts constructed in the bank for the purpose.  Then the team came
on ponderously, and the clanging of its sixteen bells as it passed the discomfited carriages,
tilted up against the bank, lent a particularly triumphant tone to the team's progress--a tone
which, in point of fact, did not at all attach to its conductor's feelings.

Giles walked behind the timber, and just as he had got past the yet stationary carriages he
heard a soft voice say, "Who is that rude man? Not Melbury?" The sex of the speaker was so
prominent in the voice that Winterborne felt a pang of regret.

"No, ma'am.  A younger man, in a smaller way of business in Little Hintock.  Winterborne is
his name."

Thus they parted company.  "Why, Mr. Winterborne," said the wagoner, when they were out of
hearing, "that was She--Mrs. Charmond! Who'd ha' thought it? What in the world can a woman
that does nothing be cock-watching out here at this time o' day for? Oh, going to Italy--yes
to be sure, I heard she was going abroad, she can't endure the winter here."

Winterborne was vexed at the incident; the more so that he knew Mr. Melbury, in his adoration
of Hintock House, would be the first to blame him if it became known.  But saying no more,
he accompanied the load to the end of the lane, and then turned back with an intention to call
at South's to learn the result of the experiment of the preceding evening.

It chanced that a few minutes before this time Grace Melbury, who now rose soon enough to breakfast
with her father, in spite of the unwontedness of the hour, had been commissioned by him to
make the same inquiry at South's.  Marty had been standing at the door when Miss Melbury arrived.
Almost before the latter had spoken, Mrs. Charmond's carriages, released from the obstruction
up the lane, came bowling along, and the two girls turned to regard the spectacle.

Mrs. Charmond did not see them, but there was sufficient light for them to discern her outline
between the carriage windows.  A noticeable feature in her tournure was a magnificent mass
of braided locks.

"How well she looks this morning!" said Grace, forgetting Mrs. Charmond's slight in her generous
admiration.  "Her hair so becomes her worn that way.  I have never seen any more beautiful!"

"Nor have I, miss," said Marty, dryly, unconsciously stroking her crown.

Grace watched the carriages with lingering regret till they were out of sight.  She then learned
of Marty that South was no better. Before she had come away Winterborne approached the house,
but seeing that one of the two girls standing on the door-step was Grace, he suddenly turned
back again and sought the shelter of his own home till she should have gone away.

CHAPTER XIV.

The encounter with the carriages having sprung upon Winterborne's mind the image of Mrs. Charmond,
his thoughts by a natural channel went from her to the fact that several cottages and other
houses in the two Hintocks, now his own, would fall into her possession in the event of South's
death.  He marvelled what people could have been thinking about in the past to invent such
precarious tenures as these; still more, what could have induced his ancestors at Hintock,
and other village people, to exchange their old copyholds for life-leases.  But having naturally
succeeded to these properties through his father, he had done his best to keep them in order,
though he was much struck with his father's negligence in not insuring South's life.

After breakfast, still musing on the circumstances, he went upstairs, turned over his bed,
and drew out a flat canvas bag which lay between the mattress and the sacking.  In this he
kept his leases, which had remained there unopened ever since his father's death.  It was the
usual hiding-place among rural lifeholders for such documents. Winterborne sat down on the
bed and looked them over.  They were ordinary leases for three lives, which a member of the
South family, some fifty years before this time, had accepted of the lord of the manor in lieu
of certain copyholds and other rights, in consideration of having the dilapidated houses rebuilt
by said lord.  They had come into his father's possession chiefly through his mother, who was
a South.

Pinned to the parchment of one of the indentures was a letter, which Winterborne had never
seen before.  It bore a remote date, the handwriting being that of some solicitor or agent,
and the signature the landholder's.  It was to the effect that at any time before the last
of the stated lives should drop, Mr. Giles Winterborne, senior, or his representative, should
have the privilege of adding his own and his son's life to the life remaining on payment of
a merely nominal sum; the concession being in consequence of the elder Winterborne's consent
to demolish one of the houses and relinquish its site, which stood at an awkward corner of
the lane and impeded the way.

The house had been pulled down years before.  Why Giles's father had not taken advantage of
his privilege to insert his own and his son's lives it was impossible to say.  The likelihood
was that death alone had hindered him in the execution of his project, as it surely was, the
elder Winterborne having been a man who took much pleasure in dealing with house property in
his small way.

Since one of the Souths still survived, there was not much doubt that Giles could do what his
father had left undone, as far as his own life was concerned.  This possibility cheered him
much, for by those houses hung many things.  Melbury's doubt of the young man's fitness to
be the husband of Grace had been based not a little on the precariousness of his holdings in
Little and Great Hintock. I will give a gun to go armed. Do you understand that weapon? No? Well I'll show you.
Now, about your aunts ... I take care of everything! Then you will come to you. For now, let
me alone, leave me alone! And do not ever think of such gossip. Go to the hacienda, you'll see.
After Mr. Fernandez will have you wanting to know much, much, because you deserve it. I pity
you, pity you're going to serve someone else's house! I always I asked God to rid of it ...
but, you see, there is no remedy! The provides otherwise.

And this I say pushing me out, and opening the door.

- Go, it's too late .... I have to get up early .... While you're snoring ... I have to work
in the little shop.

I said goodbye to the good old man, and took up the street to the
cemetery of San Antonio.

I went the steps, and leaning on the gate I started to contemplate
the city.

The night was dark; black clouds hid the horizon.

As soon as they discovered the peaks of the Sierra, drawing on a clear sky, which sparkled with
pale gleams a few stars.

My thoughts flew in search of my Angelina.

XLIV

I got up very early, and I spent the first hours in the garden. In roses, too beautiful with its
new foliage, buds not yet bloomed, but in the box "Do not forget me" Angelina seed, opened the
first flowers.

Had won the love of the poor orphan. My plants, languid and sad, do not flourish in many months,
until late April or early May. The soon be my girl adorned with all the beauties of spring.

I
was suddenly seized with deep sadness. I watched the cerulean flowers, Fresh, lush, dotted
with dew, and I thought the ephemeral nature of man's hopes. Perhaps the love that subdued
my soul, that ineffable feeling my spirit ennobled and directed my thoughts to nobler purposes,
it would be fleeting as the life of While the flowers were not torn from the stem bend pale
and withered. Would true that Angelina Love was destined to live forever! Is it true what I said
the girl, who soon forget? ... Not that I loved her with all my heart, with all the energy of my
soul.

     But alas! and I loved Matilda, and although he had not died
     in my memory and still alive in me the memory of sweet, it was not,
alas! for the poor lad, who had sworn eternal love, the angel of charity
that followed him everywhere, that lady of your spirit was light in
all darkness, the sound source in solitude, iris advertising bonanza,
through the cloud, the storm moves away, the storm has ceased.

No, Angelina lived for me, I lived for it, the misery and love had united our souls, soul mates,
born one for another, created to form a single:

"Two souls with
one thought and the throbbing chord heart.

Sitting at the foot of one orange, silent witness of our love, Angelina I was thinking when knock
at the door.

I sensed that someone brought me news of my beloved and I went hurriedly. Had not deceived me heart.
It was the groom's P. Herrera.

- ...-- Here you have told me, without getting off the horse - this box and the letters. Again answer
tomorrow. Letters of Angelina! One for my aunts, one for me.

I ran to my room and shut the door. Wanted to be alone, alone ....

"You understand - I said the girl - how pleasant was your letter to me. What anxiety! What anticipation!
All night I was thinking of your boy, until at last I fell asleep. I dreamed you! I dreamed I
was in Villaverde, at home and around you. You were reading and I was painting rose petals. Suddenly
closed the book, put on the table, and you came step by step to me, to rest at the back of
the chair .... So ... (Like that night remember?) I said quietly: "Angelina .... Angelina ...
I love you! "And I woke up. I woke up crying and distressed, as if I no longer wanted, as if
they were to see you again. But I really do not forget; true that all the time think of me? Is not
it true that I am forever in your memory? Week Last we left to go. The evening was very pretty ....
What heaven! What clouds! What celajes! What colors of the horizon so beautiful at sunset! Dad
said, "Doll: Do you want come with me? "I said yes.

We went to the top of the hill, and there on a blanket, we stopped. Dad opened his breviary and
began to pray Matins. I went along a cornfield. Grow some plants between rows giving flowers
as daisies, and I I cut many, many, many that I no longer fit into the apron, then sat on a rock
and, remembering a poem you read me, entertained me to ask if I wanted flowers. Defoliation all,
and all told me, with the last petal, you want me ... "Much !»... 'Much! " I have no moments
of sadness, not anymore. I am very happy and secure in your affection. Forgive me; forgive
me if I ever doubted your perseverance and your loyalty.

"But all of this have not told you how I got your letter. I could not go to the ranch Ocotes
to find the waiter and I settled to wait in the corridor. I was hoping that Dad, do not was
present, but it was. What fear, Rorro! Is scary. The waiter arrives, and Dad leaving. He received
the package, opened it, took his card and gave me my own, without a word. Then asked me nothing.
I rushed to read the letter from Dona Pepita. How long will I made the evening! At last I was alone
in my room, and then read and reread and reread your little note. Why are you so lazy you Linilla?
Six plieguitos! Is not it true that now is more? If not, I will punish you. And you'll see: a blade
... y. .. Be much!

"I love you with all your soul, Rodolfo mine, but I do not live for you, and it really hurts
me say those things so sad. Why talk about death when we are so happy? You say that death should
be required in times of happiness, and then only in the hours pain. Where did you learn that?
Tell me where? You have some very strange things. In you not I know how very dark, some sadness and
some disappointment that I like, that make me suffer, I do mourn. It seems as if you have little
love for life. Well, hear me: I do not think well, no. God forbid it! Life, is bitter it is
very beautiful and kind, if you have pain and suffering, is also happiness and joy, many, and I
want to live, live for you my Rorra; to be happy if you're lucky,
to love what you love and hate you loathe; to suffer if you have it,
that my joy that cifro more.

Is not it true that you do not hate anyone? No, I'm sure. Rodolfo mine: it must change so
to think, that you stray from these ideas so rare and so black, and
you love the life that love as I love her like a godsend.

You say that life is nothing but pain? Not true. When you say you love me, when you remember that
you are loved, you are happy, then you love life. Do not you feel happy when you do something
good, when to help a needy, when wipe a tear or give a word of comfort? Well I do, and you too,
you too, because are good. That's why I love you I love you so.

"The last part of your little letter made me very happy to you. So you want, so I dreamed, and
must be provided with your Linilla.

"I have here in the heart is one thing that saddens me, and I tell
you, but I need time to writing.

     Paul has to leave at three, are the 0:30, I have not seen if the
table is list, and you know that my dad eats one o'clock, the clock
sounds, and not just give it When you already have in the room, clapping
and calling for the soup.

"Paul will give you a box, it is a handkerchief embroidered with the
monogram I the moments unemployed.

Dad says that is very nice, I liked it, and I think you look like you same.

"Take good care of your aunts, mainly from Dona Carmelita, look how
much he likes pampered.

Do you see well, which is so dry and austere? For without love can not live.

"I live for you y. .. just for you, your

Linilla. "

XLV

Was writing until after midnight. At that time I went outside and cut branches most beautiful
"myosotis" to put them in my letter and they came at the hands of Angelina.

"There are - I wrote - those flowers of heaven, so beloved of my Linilla. They are the first that
sprang up in the box that you sow. It is very pretty, seems sapphire sparks rained. I loved
watching him and thinking of you.

"Linilla mine: I've won the bet. Your plants have bloomed before my own, but that's not because
you love me as much as I love you. Mine do not give hope, but flourish, and made more beautiful
than yours, which is proof that I love you all my life.

"I had a great disappointment in recent days, a quarrel that has caused me great pain. Well view
the thing was not so, and perhaps very bitter I spent days without there being reason for it.
The day we meet I will tell you everything. Why waste time in relating things unpleasant? Do not
get to ponder on this. Villaverdinos gossip ... and nothing else!

"I must tell you that three days ago I left the house of Don Juan. The doctor has gotten me a
job very well, in the hacienda of Santa Clara, which, as you know,
is Mr. Fernandez, Gabrielita's dad, your partner conference.

I was in the house of that gentleman a very nice person, I received with great courtesy, as
a friend, not as an employee, we arrange in a two by three, and on 15 I leave for the ranch.
I am sorry to part of my aunts, but my daughter, there is no choice, what to do! I do not
understand the field, but I will learn; hardest things I've learned. It saddens me to think that I
live far from you, and that I have not long to see you, for I will be going to San Sebastian
and I offered to your dad. Sorry, sorry, but as you will understand, I must not lose placement Don Crisanto
the poor have sought me. With what I earn in Santa Clara will be necessary in this house for
Aunt Pepilla not have to work in their flowers, or with the small fry. Thank God! I will provide
for all household expenses, and perhaps this destination will be for Your Rorra the beginning of
a laborious life, yes, very laborious, but well paid. And you I say things I do not understand
the field, and I do not know about that one iota. Learn all, though, I understand, my occupation
is on the desktop. Try to be useful and even necessary.

I'll have Mr. Fernandez considers my efforts and my hard work, and if my dreams do not spoil,
this job is the most appropriate means to achieve happiness, ie to
enable I unite my fate to yours.

No desire, I desire nothing else, and it encrypts all my happiness.

"Why dost reproach me my sadness and melancholy?

Think I've been very unhappy, and suffer from Murray and aggravation. You're right: life is
friendly, lovable, despite that pain is inherent in human nature, haunts us everywhere and at
all hours. You're right: When a man loves and is loved life is nice. We abhor evil; if begrudge
doing good, relieving the pain of others, to comfort the sad and
help the needy, not think that life is hard and it would be better
not to.

Forgive Linilla me, forgive me! It is true that my character is a bit gloomy and taciturn, I know
I can not help it. What do you want! So I am, so I have become in recent years, and although
your love and affection my life happy, but you are to my soul faint light and joy at times it
darkens my soul and I am happy to feed my pain, sinking voluntarily in sadness. Be my redeemer,
dispels this darkness that often cloud my soul, and placid dawn turns into night of my spirit.

"You're
right: life is nice, I love life as a gift from heaven, I love to do good, y. .. To love you
much, much, like you deserve to be loved!

"Are you telling me that the corn daisies have told you I love you?

They have not deceived as the heroine of the poem. Yes, I love you I love you, Linilla mine! I do
not consult it with flowers often be misleading and flattering, but my heart is all yours.

"Imagine a man who had lived many years in the obscurity of a dungeon, and suddenly, when I
had lost all hope of freedom, from exposing him.

I would love clarity of the sky, celajes lamps, limpid and serene horizons! As well you I love and
no more, no less.

     "Be fair.

Is not it true that this man remembered with pleasure, perhaps with
incomparable joy the shadows of the dungeon where she lived so many
years?

Is not it true that sometimes sigh lovingly recalling his imprisonment, the narrow space that
was for him home, country and world?

Then come back to me and the sadness and melancholy of yesterday, she still did not love me when
In light of your love not lit my soul.

At times I do not think I can not believe you love me I love you,
and I'm happy.

So you explain what you call "very rare things about me." So you explain this gloomy sadness, the
sorrow you have shown in me and that makes you suffer. Beg your pardon, Linilla mine. Forgive me,
I will not think about it, and if I think those things do not I will say. Is not it true that you forgive
me? Is not that right?

"The scarf is very pretty, the monogram is superb, very elegant, very simple, as drawn and embroidery
for you. Say hi to your dad, if you think appropriate to do so, so do not suspect our loves.
Did not approve, and is the reason I remember my disgust for you and for him.

Let me know that you grieve, Linilla, Linilla me, tell me you have secrets from me? Tell me, let
me know. I can imagine what it is: a childish ....

    Do not say now that I write as you wish. The day you do not write
     me as you know it, I, for my part, I have to punish, and poor you!

"Goodbye,
     my darling!
     

Rodolfo. "

XLVI

I rarely left home, and only to visit Don Roman. I spent the morning in my room and afternoon
in the garden, devoted to my favorite poets.

- What book are you reading now? - Used to ask the "pomposísimo" when
going to see .-- Lamartine?

"Victor Hugo? "Novels of Dumas?

I answered affirmatively, and the good old man made a gesture, growled, and added mohino:

- Ugh! No, child, do not waste your time. Classic! The great authors of the Augustan age! Virgilio
... Virgilio sweet! Horacio .... And if you're very sure your Latin, the classics Spanish ....
Fray Luis de Leon, Herrera .... Let the romance, they are intemperate and monstrous .... What
did Victor Hugo that is not overtaken by the Latin poets? How have outbid he and your Zorrilla, your great
Zorrilla, Lope and Calderon?

Come on, boy, will you have good taste? Well, stop the hand such daubs. If you, whom I was initiated
into the great beauties classical literature, such developments like you, what will the disciples
of Venegas and Ocaña? That's everything! So go the lyrics to patriotic! ... So there is no
Carpios and Heavy!

But I did not listen to the advice of Don Roman, and review the most
eloquent pages of Chateaubriand, sweetest verses of Lamartine, and
I memorized the best scenes of "Hernani" a collection of plays, translated
by I know not whom.

I still remember some of the famous drama romantic, that of Dona Sol Carlos V:

- "Be still, I ashamed ...!

Don Carlos, between the two all affair is madness .... My father, his pure blood shed in the
war for you, and I am listening to angry, I am, despite the furor so crazy for your wife, just
for your lady, very much. "

He disregarded the classics, and engulfed me in the deep vault of romantic literature. Andrew bought
a day in his shop of "legality", a third of old papers, including which I found brochures, books,
brochures, supplies, and volumes of "The Cross, I hurried to collect. Then I read much of "The
Devil's Pistol ', I devoured the novels of Florencio del Castillo,
and in two days I began by collecting the two volumes of "The Thirty
Years War ' Fernando Orozco, the most deliberate of our novelists.

What caused me such a painful impression that book! Filled me with
sadness, and hurt me cruelly heart.

I could not help: I ​​pulled the volume, grabbed my hat, and rushed into the street.

Beautiful spring afternoon, golden light .... I went up the hill, and walked up to my site
choice.

The cloudless sky and celajes like a cerulean glass dome. Groves, fresh and greening, flaunted
his new robe, and in the meadows and the hills floated a mysterious pink light. Middle Valley
have enjoyed the past glories of the day and there behind the church
of San Juan, behind the mill, half hidden among banana and "Izotes"
in the curve of Stony wide and open, the last rays sun traced a trail
of silver, which assumed a splendid focus, whose powerful radiation
hurt my eyes.

The city was wrapped in gauze and gold, and the East loomed tops
of the mountains, the peak of Otates, and the crests of Mata Thick
on a green background of soft opal. West side of pretending the clouds
burning mountains, an abyss of flame, which hid the sun. In Villaverde,
as in Pluviosilla, such notice sunsets are sure fire hot day, announces
the 'south', the scorching wind that heats the atmosphere and calcined
earth.

They came to me the voices of passers crossing the Alameda,
or went along edging wagon road width of ash.

The pleasant evening
breeze caressed my face with his perfumed kisses.

Still glowing in
the Sierra the last rays of day, and as they climbed the valley thousand
rumors of the sleepy nature, the voices of the river and birds singing,
I started admire the magnificent picture before him.

The shadows
gradually overran the city. Down from the mountains, emerging from
the cliffs; out of the woods, ran across the plains, and rushed in
droves for "dead." Timid and cautious stopped there, just a moment,
then hurried toward advancing the square. Shone on the river the last
burst of light air the green light turned on a vague reflection of
violet, ennegrecióse the valley, and it was evening.

- "So - I thought,
- so will the happy illusions, and the most smiling fade hope: Life
is a perpetual pain. The past is sad to remember the good lost, in
this we find the joy, the future fills us with horror ... "

"Is it
true that pain is the sad heritage of humanity miserable? Is it true
that is not possible to carry out our noblest desires? Congratulations
Malógrense plans the evil; disípense like fog wicked projects, but
why must be useless and pointless all the generous thought, every
unselfish aspirations youth? Is it true that evil lurks everywhere?
Is it true that vice is transformed to white suit of virtue, and the
most beautiful flower is worm food? If it is a real misery to live
on earth, it is better to die when we have not tested yet the bitterness
of life? "

"I think I gave it to my fate. I found myself alone in
the world, no parents, no relatives, no friends. Who loved me?

Having fastened up this their plenary absolution, he determined to get it out of his hands
and have done with it; to which end he went off to Melbury's at once.  It was now so late that
the family had all retired; he crept up to the house, thrust the note under the door, and stole
away as silently as he had come.

Melbury himself was the first to rise the next morning, and when he had read the letter his
relief was great.  "Very honorable of Giles, very honorable," he kept saying to himself.  "I
shall not forget him.  Now to keep her up to her own true level."

It happened that Grace went out for an early ramble that morning, passing through the door
and gate while her father was in the spar-house.  To go in her customary direction she could
not avoid passing Winterborne's house.  The morning sun was shining flat upon its white surface,
and the words, which still remained, were immediately visible to her.  She read them.  Her
face flushed to crimson.  She could see Giles and Creedle talking together at the back; the
charred spar-gad with which the lines had been written lay on the ground beneath the wall.
Feeling pretty sure that Winterborne would observe her action, she quickly went up to the wall,
rubbed out "lose" and inserted "keep" in its stead.  Then she made the best of her way home
without looking behind her. Giles could draw an inference now if he chose.

There could not be the least doubt that gentle Grace was warming to more sympathy with, and
interest in, Giles Winterborne than ever she had done while he was her promised lover; that
since his misfortune those social shortcomings of his, which contrasted so awkwardly with her
later experiences of life, had become obscured by the generous revival of an old romantic attachment
to him. Though mentally trained and tilled into foreignness of view, as compared with her youthful
time, Grace was not an ambitious girl, and might, if left to herself, have declined Winterborne
without much discontent or unhappiness.  Her feelings just now were so far from latent that
the writing on the wall had thus quickened her to an unusual rashness.

Having returned from her walk she sat at breakfast silently.  When her step-mother had left
the room she said to her father, "I have made up my mind that I should like my engagement to
Giles to continue, for the present at any rate, till I can see further what I ought to do."

Melbury looked much surprised.

"Nonsense," he said, sharply.  "You don't know what you are talking about.  Look here."

He handed across to her the letter received from Giles.

She read it, and said no more.  Could he have seen her write on the wall?  She did not know.
Fate, it seemed, would have it this way, and there was nothing to do but to acquiesce.

It was a few hours after this that Winterborne, who, curiously enough, had NOT perceived Grace
writing, was clearing away the tree from the front of South's late dwelling.  He saw Marty
standing in her door-way, a slim figure in meagre black, almost without womanly contours as
yet. He went up to her and said, "Marty, why did you write that on my wall last night?  It
WAS you, you know."

"Because it was the truth.  I didn't mean to let it stay, Mr. Winterborne; but when I was going
to rub it out you came, and I was obliged to run off."

"Having prophesied one thing, why did you alter it to another? Your predictions can't be worth
much."

"I have not altered it."

"But you have."

"No."

"It is altered.  Go and see."

She went, and read that, in spite of losing his dwelling-place, he would KEEP his Grace.  Marty
came back surprised.

"Well, I never," she said.  "Who can have made such nonsense of it?"

"Who, indeed?" said he.

"I have rubbed it all out, as the point of it is quite gone."

"You'd no business to rub it out.  I didn't tell you to.  I meant to let it stay a little longer."

"Some idle boy did it, no doubt," she murmured.

As this seemed very probable, and the actual perpetrator was unsuspected, Winterborne said
no more, and dismissed the matter from his mind.

From this day of his life onward for a considerable time, Winterborne, though not absolutely
out of his house as yet, retired into the background of human life and action thereabout--a
feat not particularly difficult of performance anywhere when the doer has the assistance of
a lost prestige.  Grace, thinking that Winterborne saw her write, made no further sign, and
the frail bark of fidelity that she had thus timidly launched was stranded and lost.

CHAPTER XVI.

Dr. Fitzpiers lived on the slope of the hill, in a house of much less pretension, both as to
architecture and as to magnitude, than the timber-merchant's.  The latter had, without doubt,
been once the manorial residence appertaining to the snug and modest domain of Little Hintock,
of which the boundaries were now lost by its absorption with others of its kind into the adjoining
estate of Mrs. Charmond.  Though the Melburys themselves were unaware of the fact, there was
every reason to believe--at least so the parson said that the owners of that little manor had
been Melbury's own ancestors, the family name occurring in numerous documents relating to transfers
of land about the time of the civil wars.

Mr. Fitzpiers's dwelling, on the contrary, was small, cottage-like, and comparatively modern.
It had been occupied, and was in part occupied still, by a retired farmer and his wife, who,
on the surgeon's arrival in quest of a home, had accommodated him by receding from their front
rooms into the kitchen quarter, whence they administered to his wants, and emerged at regular
intervals to receive from him a not unwelcome addition to their income.

The cottage and its garden were so regular in their arrangement that they might have been laid
out by a Dutch designer of the time of William and Mary.  In a low, dense hedge, cut to wedge-shape,
was a door over which the hedge formed an arch, and from the inside of the door a straight
path, bordered with clipped box, ran up the slope of the garden to the porch, which was exactly
in the middle of the house front, with two windows on each side.  Right and left of the path
were first a bed of gooseberry bushes; next of currant; next of raspberry; next of strawberry;
next of old-fashioned flowers; at the corners opposite the porch being spheres of box resembling
a pair of school globes.  Over the roof of the house could be seen the orchard, on yet higher
ground, and behind the orchard the forest-trees, reaching up to the crest of the hill.

Opposite the garden door and visible from the parlor window was a swing-gate leading into a
field, across which there ran a footpath. The swing-gate had just been repainted, and on one
fine afternoon, before the paint was dry, and while gnats were still dying thereon, the surgeon
was standing in his sitting-room abstractedly looking out at the different pedestrians who
passed and repassed along that route. Being of a philosophical stamp, he perceived that the
character of each of these travellers exhibited itself in a somewhat amusing manner by his
or her method of handling the gate.

As regarded the men, there was not much variety: they gave the gate a kick and passed through.
The women were more contrasting. To them the sticky wood-work was a barricade, a disgust, a
menace, a treachery, as the case might be.

The first that he noticed was a bouncing woman with her skirts tucked up and her hair uncombed.
She grasped the gate without looking, giving it a supplementary push with her shoulder, when
the white imprint drew from her an exclamation in language not too refined.  She went to the
green bank, sat down and rubbed herself in the grass, cursing the while.

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed the doctor.

The next was a girl, with her hair cropped short, in whom the surgeon recognized the daughter
of his late patient, the woodman South. Moreover, a black bonnet that she wore by way of mourning
unpleasantly reminded him that he had ordered the felling of a tree which had caused her parent's
death and Winterborne's losses. She walked and thought, and not recklessly; but her preoccupation
led her to grasp unsuspectingly the bar of the gate, and touch it with her arm. Fitzpiers felt
sorry that she should have soiled that new black frock, poor as it was, for it was probably
her only one. 

At that moment took pepazo their stringers of snow and began to speak. He had believing themselves
out of oak outside to feel safer in the face the first whipping "the cloud". Observólo Chisco,
who was at his side, and called for a return to oak prior to before, if he did not fly over the cliff
or fall into it buried both gave: pepazo no, and yes Chisco, flings himself upon the other to put
him in. for good or bad, it explodes into the cellerisca, and did not pepazo to hear or see
nor feel anything of this world to what he was seeing and hearing this.

Salces Pito, who never took his eye pepazo not miss a single word of what I was saying the mozallón,
as it ceased to speak of a rose was planted on the edge of the ravine, and there he sniffed,
with the ease of a good dog nose in all directions even in the black depths of the abyss.
The pain, the consternation of those generous and honest people, not for colored. It ran back
and forth, desperately sniffing Canelo (the other two dogs had swept the hurricane) was called
in all Chisco imaginable shades of human anguish, and were removed piles of snow with the shovel,
with hoe, feet, fingernails ... And nothing!

In this is a cry of Pito Salces, and these words to life again to all:

- Here, porridge! I have no eyes or face.

Pete stood the good spread one's legs on the edge of the creek and looking forward down. There,
in the narrow spine of rock that only moved into the abyss and was rooted on the shore, about
thirty feet below where he claimed his men to look Pito and those who had come to his call, they
saw a body half covered by snow. Undoubtedly was to Chisco, by signs of her dress and size,
but what would some life into inanimate creature appeared? Pete argued that yes, because he dared
swear he had caught some "movición 'arm in it. Anyway, we had to get there. How? Where? And here the
longing and despair, because the relief was difficult and time was pressing inexorable. The
cut of the mountain on that side was almost vertical, overhanging the ravine, and had only
a slight stretch, very smear slope precisely to lead the rock with which he joined at its base.
Between the rock and the base of the slope had a space of several yards. In that space, too leaning
on the rock and well marked inclination into the abyss, was what looked like Chisco face down and
motionless, apparently confirming Canelo top beating wildly and looking for a path along which
come to the aid of its owner. For reasons of extreme caution, ordered Neluco to restrain your
dog in the act and he had far from the spot where they were Don Sabas, Pito Salces and he, running
on the problem of the descent. This was not impossible, let alone for those risky and skillful mountain
with auxiliary resources at their disposal, but in those moments provided a tremendous danger,
not for the come down, but for which was down and, helpless and inert. The slope was covered, until
the top edge of a layer would measure not less snow yard and a half thick, and must measure
perhaps much more double what it was in the plain below, on one side of which lay no sign Chisco
of life, even vowing to continue Chorcos yes it was intended. Remove snow from above, was even slightly
(and hence the Neluco precaution taken with cinnamon), equivalent to produce a shift in it,
which, gaining weight and speed of hand in hand, would to the rock like an avalanche of enough
thrust to drag Chisco to the depths of the canyon. This, it was in everyone's mind was what
had febrile and dismayed. All were willing to go down, but no one was allowed. Salces Pito, who did
not fit himself and walked miles per second in three feet of soil they occupied their feet
was suddenly punched in the face. Puches! already had the idea.

- Are the ropes ready? - Asked.

They answered yes.

- Will we ca a Eyas to abaju?

He was told that with leftover same. He then asked for a shovel. Examined the rope, measuring
arm in arm, the left then screwed into the ground near the edge of
the ravine, put blade on the thread, and turned to peer over the edge.

Then he asked the nearest of that silent and looked at him with curiosity:

-
Will there be even, even, six feet of snow on the way from there yanauca
of baju?

- And more - are answered.

He took off the snowshoeing in a jiffy, he threw aside, lifted up himself and said:

- The lightning, porridge! Are pa when it thunders, and prayers, Don Sabas, pa when mesmu nesecitan
as now.

He kissed his hand to the Priest; arrimóse again to the edge of the ravine said he watched the amazed,
to ignore the plans that will move to do those strange things that have lists the shovel and the
rope when asked him for a moment looked down santiguóse quickly invoked "Jesus crucified ..."
and there goes that!

Was launched into the abyss between amazement and horror of all. It should be noted that since
he noticed the lack of Chisco until that sublime awful, did not go ten minutes. So fast it went,
they ran and acted there!

Those who saw Pito Salces fall (which were all that remained above the caravan, Canelo including)
the right, stiff as a spindle, and making the wings and swing arms for controllable in the air,
unable to figure out which came first, sinking into the snow to the cross of their pants, or put
both hands on the motionless body of his friend preying on him. Then he pulled the body with all its forces,
managed to drag their land and left in the snow in safer and backs. Everyone knew Chisco saw
him as well, but horror of horrors! in the place where he had been
resting his head was a smudge of blood on the white perfectly distinguished
dazzling Snow.

Almost at the same time it was this sad discovery, Pete yelled from
looking back down from above:

- There are men, porridge, and even
his resueyu correspondienti!

- Up with it without delay! - Neluco
then shouted from above.

- We must sweep the road first! - Answered
Chorcos from below -.

Échenme a shovel before with before, because I have the idea, porridge!,
and vaig jiciendu above it that I see abaju JACER over here ... as
I advise.

Blade fell quickly, perfectly plumb and on-site that pointed to Chorcos
hand, took possession of it, and began to snow EXPAL right and left,
throwing over the edges of that air and lower peninsula joined to
the mainland of the mountain by an isthmus that was three yards wide.

In two minutes it was clear and the isthmus open a path in there campizo which covered the
stumps of the cliff, until the pile of snow which lay Chisco. Then the intrepid boy was pulled
to the base of slope, and there, as if he were in the garden of his home, without worry the least
about the horrific vision of the abyss that opened at half staff in each of his feet, he began
to EXPAL snow slope, side to side, sending at the same time it did above the same, as the blades
reach. Without base and the snow slope and removed overhead, began to slip into the isthmus,
which was split into two waterfalls disappearing in the ravine. Clear and clean the slope in
a few moments and unfettered, therefore, of the dangers they feared before, he fell down the
rope called Chorcos, tied as it should and he knew it, his friend under the arms, and gingerly
pulling up and helping the He fondly from below, was Chisco, who could not do anything for
themselves, leaning to the slope.

- Up to him now! - Salces Pete shouted, as pulsu, because if no one brazu cascau yeva has of faltali
POCU.

Chisco arrived happily at the top, down the rope again, Atos her Chorcos, subiéronle; and no
one stopped to ponder the feat, and it occurred to him that he had
done worthy of the name, ran to surround all Chisco, who had already
taken over the doctor in the oak groves, attended mainly by Don Sabas.

The head wound was negligible, and the arm was not even a dislocated shoulder. The worst was the blood
loss weakened him very much, and what might be of concussion, although how compliant was a good
sign that the whole body was showing the remedies that you Neluco applied. Three quarters
of an hour the patient was sitting by his own efforts and their free will, another quarter
of an hour later, asking detailed news of all that had past the hour and a half, he ate with
great appetite and was drinking when he gave, and unfulfilled two hours, rehearsing their vigor
of kicking in the snow walking and praying to Cure Neluco because it broke the place quickly.

Walking
now, said Don Sabas your doctor:

- And they say that miracles are no longer! Be in the canyon wall smooth one rock ledge, go
for the death penalty Chisco dragged by cellerisca; have a bed rock more than six feet of
snow, and engage him in blankets cellerisca over another Thus, for
the fall out soft.

Are not these miracles?

And finally, is not the greatest of all the occurrence of Pete? For what would have served
the other without such barbarism?

As it was necessary to accommodate Chisco walk, his gait was not ordinary, down to Tablanca lasted
much more than estimated at the output of "Cuevona" of "Pedregalón
of Escajeras'; and how, even so, the monsoon of Robacio was not iron,
became tired and not feeling much well as the night wore on grew colder
and colder.

There were fears that Tablanca unable to reach their feet, and looked for shortcuts to soon. How
come, at last, Neluco and patients, we have already seen us.

It Chisco heated bed, he stripped off his wet clothes, he was given a friction brandy, and was
lying in bed when referring Neluco in the kitchen these events more than once clouded the eyes
of Facia, and made us tremble with fear and excitement Tona her daughter, while my uncle was
shaking her chin and stuck little eyes sparkled in the narrator. As for me, to admire as much
as I admired the heroic atrocity Pito Salces, and feel so deeply as I felt the terrible misfortune
of the poor Chisco, I was still all in comparison little box of horrors that I had been building
in the head during the day and much of the night.

Finished the story, with detailed comments from listeners, and refreshed and with Neluco lumbrona heat,
god around Chisco's bedroom, saw and saw all sleeping profoundly
a quiet sleep without any sign of fever, caused us instructions what
could happen until he returned the next morning, called the bluff
and Facia had prepared him, took leave and went to his house where
his housekeeper would be crying by entrusting to him and to God.

I then explained to my uncle, the reason for these events, my conduct throughout the day appeared
calm with it, leaning against us shortly after the lazy, I had dinner with an appetite as I
had not felt one in my life, and one hour after we retired to sleep.

A sleep! ... Good went to do the hours of that day and night memorable!

Tell me I got into bed with his head crammed with special events and heart full of impressions,
saw the storm raging in the mountains, rocks ripping uprooting trees and secular, and a dozen
men, simply and naturally generous shrouded swirling snow and hail,
rolling on the floor, such as leaf litter dead trees; saw Chisco dying
in the back of a rock, on a black background an awful abyss, saw the
desperate yearning of his fellow-sufferers, who were not how to get
there, and saw, finally, to Noblot Pito Salces flying through the
air and risking their lives at the start brutally sublime, just trying
to save Your friend, which surely would have done the same for him
a lot, I considered all As representative and valuable in the light
of common sense these things, and simple attack the trip to the mountain
on a day like this, in the pure and holy spirit of charity, as The
most natural and simple, without any protest, without the slightest
doubt and no idea even from the remotest hope of profit or applause,
and could not help it, I remembered I had read and heard many times
in my world, the resounding din that used to move in chat rooms, casinos
and papers, and honors and ribbons that were requested and granted
for award a "deed" not worth two cumin good sale, I also thought of
my poor uncle whom the questions first and then the knowledge of reality
with all its details, were affected very deeply, and that I had left
the bedroom door much more depressed and haggard than usual, more
tiring and more haunted by coughing, in Finally, I even thought so
in good justice, would have won in estimating Chisco Tanasi, who was
not worthy of a big animal like pepazo, and Pito Salces in Tona, there
would be no thrown by the wayside the atrocities of Heroic mozallón
how truly loved her.

Until well after midnight did not start the sleep feints to confuse and stack these thoughts
and those images in his head, and that was precisely when I heard few knocks on the floor of the
apartment of my uncle. He used to call it with a stick that put leaning against the headboard.
But the shock of that night was something distinguished them from the blows of other times,
heard by me without warning. Could this be true, or product of a hallucination of mine, but I, in
doubt, I stuck to it first and I got a leap, lit the candle, got dressed in the air and went to
the call. And what I was I feared. I found the poor guy sitting up in bed, iris color, looking
for distress, mouth open, panting and breathing hard, and a rattle in the chest that looked
like death. Recited, syllable by syllable, the Miserere psalm ... and I did not know what
to do or what to say at first: I imposed that picture had never seen and felt at the same time
very compassionate. Armed with that sort attacks had several drugs at home and gave us some instructions
Neluco to combat trouble in the first moments when he warned him, but I could not quite make
or to have anything to anything. So I looked stunning!

It reached the two maids, who had also heard the shots, and, seeing his master from the door, I
said Facia ear:

- What mesmu that again!

Tona He turned flying into the kitchen to a term of his mother, and it stayed with me in the
sick room.

Ether, hand baths, poultices ... I do not know how many resources were put into play there! A
whole lend the distressed lord, unless it is notified Neluco or Don Sabas, because after of
the struggle they had had since the dawn, they needed rest as much as him. And beware that the
poor Chisco found out what was going on! because it was able to rise risk of getting worse,
and Chisco and the Cure and Neluco and I and Facia and every one of the sleeping or resting
at that hour or went healthy and good for the house, made missing in the world, all but him,
that seeing themselves in this predicament was seen in his own interests and in what was natural.

All
of this was telling us little by little, as he fixed his eyes on us crystallized and longing
and cadaveric in sank his hands a bowl of hot water, building relief that would produce this
and other heroic remedies we applied it constantly.

- In addition - we said - this is not death yet, I know him well, and if I thought otherwise,
and the priest would be here for my order, for the account of me.

Gravel! ... But it is another reminder of her ... We, the second touch, the third, the mass ...
and do not lie, the funeral mass, the body of your uncle, Marcelo,
your master, Facia, which is already in abundance in this home and
abroad ... Blessed be God forever ever, amen!

Then he began to pray for the low, and as he calmed the anguish was
closing eyes, until finally falling asleep, and so asleep and waking
up every moment Before long.

Toward morning the attack disappeared completely and the patient slept quietly and at a stretch,
about two hours. But what I had wanted for the Neluco night to warn, and what my own anxiety by
dawn!

When morning came, at last, I was shivering with cold ... and sadness, seated at the head of
my uncle's bed, having seen from the sunshine of my room that did not appear the new day more
cheerful than the last, and sent a wire to Neluco to anticipate the visit as he could.

XXIII

As my uncle was found free of the attack on waking from sleep, relatively
quiet, I had watched since dawn, and saw the room lit by daylight,
although brown, melancholy, forgot the anguish she had suffered fatal
few hours earlier, and he had not told other desire than to jump out
of bed to make life normal.

God help us reduced cost to us even listen to the reasons we had for oppose the reckless and dangerous
endeavor.

Neluco, which was already present and well aware for everything that happened during the night,
he had really upset and even lacking a bit different respect. If not for the good, bad that
day would have to stay in bed and the next, and the other, and lasted as long as the snow storm.
Be avoided colds at all costs ... Then they would see.

To which Don Celso, casting by the loops of fire fox and clenching his fists in anger:

- For you it was! For you and for all of your driven trade, the tricky mediquín gravel! Why do
you take me? What wood you've thought that I am? I will arise ... or not I arise, and as I see
as gall, but not because he pleases so or to asao no undertaker live
... because life is buried in cuartajo! be in bed days and days to
a man like me, without fever or pain.

After he surrendered, rather than conviction, for lack of strength to get away with it; but turned
his face to the wall muttering protests and abuse as a child upset.

Released this and while we would see Chisco, I said that perhaps the doctor had why my uncle in
his contention with us. Nature was so extraordinary!

- There is nature worth - I replied Neluco - at a certain age in life and certain diseases.

-
But how serious is it to have my uncle? - I asked.

- I've already responded to you on another occasion that question.

- Yes.

- Well, you stick to it, and offer government for better intelligence, which each hundred patients
from this class, although young men are dying ... One Hundred and One, So you just imagine if
there have to be careful, even to stop the death of Don Celso few days.


But whether he meditated the Muses or the philosophers, the loneliness of Hintock life was
beginning to tell upon his impressionable nature. Winter in a solitary house in the country,
without society, is tolerable, nay, even enjoyable and delightful, given certain conditions,
but these are not the conditions which attach to the life of a professional man who drops down
into such a place by mere accident.  They were present to the lives of Winterborne, Melbury,
and Grace; but not to the doctor's.  They are old association--an almost exhaustive biographical
or historical acquaintance with every object, animate and inanimate, within the observer's
horizon.  He must know all about those invisible ones of the days gone by, whose feet have
traversed the fields which look so gray from his windows; recall whose creaking plough has
turned those sods from time to time; whose hands planted the trees that form a crest to the
opposite hill; whose horses and hounds have torn through that underwood; what birds affect
that particular brake; what domestic dramas of love, jealousy, revenge, or disappointment have
been enacted in the cottages, the mansion, the street, or on the green.  The spot may have
beauty, grandeur, salubrity, convenience; but if it lack memories it will ultimately pall upon
him who settles there without opportunity of intercourse with his kind.

In such circumstances, maybe, an old man dreams of an ideal friend, till he throws himself
into the arms of any impostor who chooses to wear that title on his face.  A young man may
dream of an ideal friend likewise, but some humor of the blood will probably lead him to think
rather of an ideal mistress, and at length the rustle of a woman's dress, the sound of her
voice, or the transit of her form across the field of his vision, will enkindle his soul with
a flame that blinds his eyes.

The discovery of the attractive Grace's name and family would have been enough in other circumstances
to lead the doctor, if not to put her personality out of his head, to change the character
of his interest in her.  Instead of treasuring her image as a rarity, he would at most have
played with it as a toy.  He was that kind of a man.  But situated here he could not go so
far as amative cruelty.  He dismissed all reverential thought about her, but he could not help
taking her seriously.

He went on to imagine the impossible.  So far, indeed, did he go in this futile direction that,
as others are wont to do, he constructed dialogues and scenes in which Grace had turned out
to be the mistress of Hintock Manor-house, the mysterious Mrs. Charmond, particularly ready
and willing to be wooed by himself and nobody else.  "Well, she isn't that," he said, finally.
"But she's a very sweet, nice, exceptional girl."

The next morning he breakfasted alone, as usual.  It was snowing with a fine-flaked desultoriness
just sufficient to make the woodland gray, without ever achieving whiteness.  There was not
a single letter for Fitzpiers, only a medical circular and a weekly newspaper.

To sit before a large fire on such mornings, and read, and gradually acquire energy till the
evening came, and then, with lamp alight, and feeling full of vigor, to pursue some engrossing
subject or other till the small hours, had hitherto been his practice.  But to-day he could
not settle into his chair.  That self-contained position he had lately occupied, in which the
only attention demanded was the concentration of the inner eye, all outer regard being quite
gratuitous, seemed to have been taken by insidious stratagem, and for the first time he had
an interest outside the house.  He walked from one window to another, and became aware that
the most irksome of solitudes is not the solitude of remoteness, but that which is just outside
desirable company.

The breakfast hour went by heavily enough, and the next followed, in the same half-snowy, half-rainy
style, the weather now being the inevitable relapse which sooner or later succeeds a time too
radiant for the season, such as they had enjoyed in the late midwinter at Hintock.  To people
at home there these changeful tricks had their interests; the strange mistakes that some of
the more sanguine trees had made in budding before their month, to be incontinently glued up
by frozen thawings now; the similar sanguine errors of impulsive birds in framing nests that
were now swamped by snow-water, and other such incidents, prevented any sense of wearisomeness
in the minds of the natives.  But these were features of a world not familiar to Fitzpiers,
and the inner visions to which he had almost exclusively attended having suddenly failed in
their power to absorb him, he felt unutterably dreary.

He wondered how long Miss Melbury was going to stay in Hintock. The season was unpropitious
for accidental encounters with her out-of-doors, and except by accident he saw not how they
were to become acquainted.  One thing was clear--any acquaintance with her could only, with
a due regard to his future, be casual, at most of the nature of a flirtation; for he had high
aims, and they would some day lead him into other spheres than this.

Thus desultorily thinking he flung himself down upon the couch, which, as in many draughty
old country houses, was constructed with a hood, being in fact a legitimate development from
the settle.  He tried to read as he reclined, but having sat up till three o'clock that morning,
the book slipped from his hand and he fell asleep.

CHAPTER XVIII.

It was at this time that Grace approached the house.  Her knock, always soft in virtue of her
nature, was softer to-day by reason of her strange errand.  However, it was heard by the farmer's
wife who kept the house, and Grace was admitted.  Opening the door of the doctor's room the
housewife glanced in, and imagining Fitzpiers absent, asked Miss Melbury to enter and wait
a few minutes while she should go and find him, believing him to be somewhere on the premises.
Grace acquiesced, went in, and sat down close to the door.

As soon as the door was shut upon her she looked round the room, and started at perceiving
a handsome man snugly ensconced in the couch, like the recumbent figure within some canopied
mural tomb of the fifteenth century, except that his hands were by no means clasped in prayer.
She had no doubt that this was the doctor. Awaken him herself she could not, and her immediate
impulse was to go and pull the broad ribbon with a brass rosette which hung at one side of
the fireplace. But expecting the landlady to re-enter in a moment she abandoned this intention,
and stood gazing in great embarrassment at the reclining philosopher.

The windows of Fitzpiers's soul being at present shuttered, he probably appeared less impressive
than in his hours of animation; but the light abstracted from his material presence by sleep
was more than counterbalanced by the mysterious influence of that state, in a stranger, upon
the consciousness of a beholder so sensitive.  So far as she could criticise at all, she became
aware that she had encountered a specimen of creation altogether unusual in that locality.
The occasions on which Grace had observed men of this stamp were when she had been far removed
away from Hintock, and even then such examples as had met her eye were at a distance, and mainly
of coarser fibre than the one who now confronted her.

She nervously wondered why the woman had not discovered her mistake and returned, and went
again towards the bell-pull. Approaching the chimney her back was to Fitzpiers, but she could
see him in the glass.  An indescribable thrill passed through her as she perceived that the
eyes of the reflected image were open, gazing wonderingly at her, and under the curious unexpectedness
of the sight she became as if spellbound, almost powerless to turn her head and regard the
original.  However, by an effort she did turn, when there he lay asleep the same as before.

Her startled perplexity as to what he could be meaning was sufficient to lead her to precipitately
abandon her errand.  She crossed quickly to the door, opened and closed it noiselessly, and
went out of the house unobserved.  By the time that she had gone down the path and through
the garden door into the lane she had recovered her equanimity. Here, screened by the hedge,
she stood and considered a while.

Drip, drip, drip, fell the rain upon her umbrella and around; she had come out on such a morning
because of the seriousness of the matter in hand; yet now she had allowed her mission to be
stultified by a momentary tremulousness concerning an incident which perhaps had meant nothing
after all.

In the mean time her departure from the room, stealthy as it had been, had roused Fitzpiers,
and he sat up.  In the reflection from the mirror which Grace had beheld there was no mystery;
he had opened his eyes for a few moments, but had immediately relapsed into unconsciousness,
if, indeed, he had ever been positively awake.  That somebody had just left the room he was
certain, and that the lovely form which seemed to have visited him in a dream was no less than
the real presentation of the person departed he could hardly doubt.

Looking out of the window a few minutes later, down the box-edged gravel-path which led to
the bottom, he saw the garden door gently open, and through it enter the young girl of his
thoughts, Grace having just at this juncture determined to return and attempt the interview
a second time.  That he saw her coming instead of going made him ask himself if his first impression
of her were not a dream indeed.  She came hesitatingly along, carrying her umbrella so low
over her head that he could hardly see her face.  When she reached the point where the raspberry
bushes ended and the strawberry bed began, she made a little pause.

Fitzpiers feared that she might not be coming to him even now, and hastily quitting the room,
he ran down the path to meet her.  The nature of her errand he could not divine, but he was
prepared to give her any amount of encouragement.

"I beg pardon, Miss Melbury," he said.  "I saw you from the window, and fancied you might imagine
that I was not at home--if it is I you were coming for."

"I was coming to speak one word to you, nothing more," she replied. "And I can say it here."

"No, no.  Please do come in.  Well, then, if you will not come into the house, come as far
as the porch."

Thus pressed she went on to the porch, and they stood together inside it, Fitzpiers closing
her umbrella for her.

"I have merely a request or petition to make," she said.  "My father's servant is ill--a woman
you know--and her illness is serious."

"I am sorry to hear it.  You wish me to come and see her at once?"

"No; I particularly wish you not to come."

"Oh, indeed."

"Yes; and she wishes the same.  It would make her seriously worse if you were to come.  It
would almost kill her....My errand is of a peculiar and awkward nature.  It is concerning a
subject which weighs on her mind--that unfortunate arrangement she made with you, that you
might have her body--after death."

"Oh! Grammer Oliver, the old woman with the fine head.  Seriously ill, is she!"

"And SO disturbed by her rash compact! I have brought the money back--will you please return
to her the agreement she signed?" Grace held out to him a couple of five-pound notes which
she had kept ready tucked in her glove.

Without replying or considering the notes, Fitzpiers allowed his thoughts to follow his eyes,
and dwell upon Grace's personality, and the sudden close relation in which he stood to her.
The porch was narrow; the rain increased.  It ran off the porch and dripped on the creepers,
and from the creepers upon the edge of Grace's cloak and skirts.

"The rain is wetting your dress; please do come in," he said.  "It really makes my heart ache
to let you stay here."

Immediately inside the front door was the door of his sitting-room; he flung it open, and stood
in a coaxing attitude.  Try how she would, Grace could not resist the supplicatory mandate
written in the face and manner of this man, and distressful resignation sat on her as she glided
past him into the room--brushing his coat with her elbow by reason of the narrowness.

He followed her, shut the door--which she somehow had hoped he would leave open--and placing
a chair for her, sat down.  The concern which Grace felt at the development of these commonplace
incidents was, of course, mainly owing to the strange effect upon her nerves of that view of
him in the mirror gazing at her with open eyes when she had thought him sleeping, which made
her fancy that his slumber might have been a feint based on inexplicable reasons.

She again proffered the notes; he awoke from looking at her as at a piece of live statuary,
and listened deferentially as she said, "Will you then reconsider, and cancel the bond which
poor Grammer Oliver so foolishly gave?"

"I'll cancel it without reconsideration.  Though you will allow me to have my own opinion about
her foolishness.  Grammer is a very wise woman, and she was as wise in that as in other things.
You think there was something very fiendish in the compact, do you not, Miss Melbury? But remember
that the most eminent of our surgeons in past times have entered into such agreements."

"Not fiendish--strange."

"Yes, that may be, since strangeness is not in the nature of a thing, but in its relation to
something extrinsic--in this case an unessential observer."

He went to his desk, and searching a while found a paper, which be unfolded and brought to
her.  A thick cross appeared in ink at the bottom--evidently from the hand of Grammer.  Grace
put the paper in her pocket with a look of much relief.

As Fitzpiers did not take up the money (half of which had come from Grace's own purse), she
pushed it a little nearer to him. "No, no.  I shall not take it from the old woman," he said.
"It is more strange than the fact of a surgeon arranging to obtain a subject for dissection
that our acquaintance should be formed out of it."

"I am afraid you think me uncivil in showing my dislike to the notion. But I did not mean to be."

"Oh no, no."  He looked at her, as he had done before, with puzzled interest.  "I cannot think,
I cannot think," he murmured. "Something bewilders me greatly."  He still reflected and hesitated.
"Last night I sat up very late," he at last went on, "and on that account I fell into a little
nap on that couch about half an hour ago.  And during my few minutes of unconsciousness I dreamed--what
do you think?--that you stood in the room."

Should she tell? She merely blushed.

"You may imagine," Fitzpiers continued, now persuaded that it had, indeed, been a dream, "that
I should not have dreamed of you without considerable thinking about you first."

He could not be acting; of that she felt assured.

"I fancied in my vision that you stood there," he said, pointing to where she had paused. 
"I did not see you directly, but reflected in the glass.  I thought, what a lovely creature!
The design is for once carried out.  Nature has at last recovered her lost union with the Idea!
My thoughts ran in that direction because I had been reading the work of a transcendental philosopher
last night; and I dare say it was the dose of Idealism that I received from it that made me
scarcely able to distinguish between reality and fancy.  I almost wept when I awoke, and found
that you had appeared to me in Time, but not in Space, alas!"

At moments there was something theatrical in the delivery of Fitzpiers's effusion; yet it would
have been inexact to say that it was intrinsically theatrical.  It often happens that in situations
of unrestraint, where there is no thought of the eye of criticism, real feeling glides into
a mode of manifestation not easily distinguishable from rodomontade.  A veneer of affectation
overlies a bulk of truth, with the evil consequence, if perceived, that the substance is estimated
by the superficies, and the whole rejected.

Grace, however, was no specialist in men's manners, and she admired the sentiment without thinking
of the form.  And she was embarrassed: "lovely creature" made explanation awkward to her gentle
modesty.

"But can it be," said he, suddenly, "that you really were here?"

"I have to confess that I have been in the room once before," faltered she.  "The woman showed
me in, and went away to fetch you; but as she did not return, I left."

"And you saw me asleep," he murmured, with the faintest show of humiliation.

"Yes--IF you were asleep, and did not deceive me."

"Why do you say if?"

"I saw your eyes open in the glass, but as they were closed when I looked round upon you, I
thought you were perhaps deceiving me.

"Never," said Fitzpiers, fervently--"never could I deceive you."

Foreknowledge to the distance of a year or so in either of them might have spoiled the effect
of that pretty speech.  Never deceive her! But they knew nothing, and the phrase had its day.

Grace began now to be anxious to terminate the interview, but the compelling power of Fitzpiers's
atmosphere still held her there. She was like an inexperienced actress who, having at last
taken up her position on the boards, and spoken her speeches, does not know how to move off.
The thought of Grammer occurred to her.  "I'll go at once and tell poor Grammer of your generosity,"
she said. "It will relieve her at once."

"Grammer's a nervous disease, too--how singular!" he answered, accompanying her to the door.
"One moment; look at this--it is something which may interest you."

He had thrown open the door on the other side of the passage, and she saw a microscope on the
table of the confronting room.  "Look into it, please; you'll be interested," he repeated.

She applied her eye, and saw the usual circle of light patterned all over with a cellular tissue
of some indescribable sort.  "What do you think that is?" said Fitzpiers.

She did not know.

"That's a fragment of old John South's brain, which I am investigating."

She started back, not with aversion, but with wonder as to how it should have got there.  Fitzpiers
laughed.

"Here am I," he said, "endeavoring to carry on simultaneously the study of physiology and transcendental
philosophy, the material world and the ideal, so as to discover if possible a point of contrast
between them; and your finer sense is quite offended!"

"Oh no, Mr. Fitzpiers," said Grace, earnestly.  "It is not so at all. I know from seeing your
light at night how deeply you meditate and work.  Instead of condemning you for your studies,
I admire you very much!"

Her face, upturned from the microscope, was so sweet, sincere, and self-forgetful in its aspect
that the susceptible Fitzpiers more than wished to annihilate the lineal yard which separated
it from his own. Whether anything of the kind showed in his eyes or not, Grace remained no
longer at the microscope, but quickly went her way into the rain.

CHAPTER XIX.

Instead of resuming his investigation of South's brain, which perhaps was not so interesting
under the microscope as might have been expected from the importance of that organ in life,
Fitzpiers reclined and ruminated on the interview.  Grace's curious susceptibility to his presence,
though it was as if the currents of her life were disturbed rather than attracted by him, added
a special interest to her general charm.  Fitzpiers was in a distinct degree scientific, being
ready and zealous to interrogate all physical manifestations, but primarily he was an idealist.
He believed that behind the imperfect lay the perfect; that rare things were to be discovered
amid a bulk of commonplace; that results in a new and untried case might be different from
those in other cases where the conditions had been precisely similar. Regarding his own personality
as one of unbounded possibilities, because it was his own--notwithstanding that the factors
of his life had worked out a sorry product for thousands--he saw nothing but what was regular
in his discovery at Hintock of an altogether exceptional being of the other sex, who for nobody
else would have had any existence.

One habit of Fitzpiers's--commoner in dreamers of more advanced age than in men of his years--was
that of talking to himself.  He paced round his room with a selective tread upon the more prominent
blooms of the carpet, and murmured, "This phenomenal girl will be the light of my life while
I am at Hintock; and the special beauty of the situation is that our attitude and relations
to each other will be purely spiritual. Socially we can never be intimate.  Anything like matrimonial
intentions towards her, charming as she is, would be absurd.  They would spoil the ethereal
character of my regard.  And, indeed, I have other aims on the practical side of my life."

Fitzpiers bestowed a regulation thought on the advantageous marriage he was bound to make with
a woman of family as good as his own, and of purse much longer.  But as an object of contemplation
for the present, as objective spirit rather than corporeal presence, Grace Melbury would serve
to keep his soul alive, and to relieve the monotony of his days.

His first notion--acquired from the mere sight of her without converse--that of an idle and
vulgar flirtation with a timber-merchant's pretty daughter, grated painfully upon him now that
he had found what Grace intrinsically was.  Personal intercourse with such as she could take
no lower form than intellectual communion, and mutual explorations of the world of thought.
Since he could not call at her father's, having no practical views, cursory encounters in the
lane, in the wood, coming and going to and from church, or in passing her dwelling, were what
the acquaintance would have to feed on.

Such anticipated glimpses of her now and then realized themselves in the event.  Rencounters
of not more than a minute's duration, frequently repeated, will build up mutual interest, even
an intimacy, in a lonely place.  Theirs grew as imperceptibly as the tree-twigs budded.  There
never was a particular moment at which it could be said they became friends; yet a delicate
understanding now existed between two who in the winter had been strangers. Instructions made themselves, attending to them
with other Captains Ramon Montaner, one of the greatest writers of credit, speaking always in the
most serious advice and execution of this expedition. Entregáronse to two gentlemen, whose names the
time and neglect left wrapped in darkness, then depart Constantinople, and give their embassy
on behalf of the entire nation. They arrived in a few days with a reinforced hat Roger. Known
his coming, and with any news of the embassy wore, were received with grateful Andronico countenance
and shows a lot of love. Proposed one of the two Ambassadors, the oldest in years, its embassy,
​​which the Catalans and Aragonese after making peace between King Charles of Naples, King of Sicily,
Don Frederic, to whom They served, determined not to seek rest at home, but increase with new facts
military glory and fame gained in past wars, they had enough forces for this in number and value,
soldiers exercised by a long and dangerous war, known Captains for their victories and nobility of
blood in the name of all offered him their assistance against Turks with folded taste and liking,
and take their weapons in favor of the house of Palaeologus, Unique Friends of Aragon, when their
parts were too falls and expand his empire destroying enemies along the name of Christian, who so
boldly and proudly I wanted to establish in the provinces usurped the Greek Empire.

Emperors were thrilled with the unexpected offer of the embassy and
Catalan, to seem as important to its interests, because they understood
that those same, which I came to offer, were the ones with so much
horror and fear in all of Italy won and sustained the Kingdom of Sicily.

Magnificent words thanked the ease with which the whole nation offered serve, and the same are received.
He wanted talks then the conditions that had a soldier, and so the ambassadors asked the salary
according to their instructions for people war, and Roger to give him the title of Grand Duke, and
wife one of his granddaughters, because I wanted to secure more such items in their service. Andronico
without altering or moving thing they asked, the given, regardless of the quality and condition
of unequal Roger to her granddaughter, but all this inequality could match the reputation of
the people, who like General ruled, and being so oppressed the Greek arms of the Turks, and
unsafe the fidelity of their own.

Blind and lived in a village banished Bithynia Juan Lascar, legitimate successor of the Empire,
and but useless to occupy it, living it, was the possession of Andronico tyrannical, and it
causes justified to take up arms the present government malcontents,
and so full of fear and suspicion, he was obliged to have recourse
to foreign nations for war and defense of his person.

Service received ten thousand Massegatas, whom the vulgar call Alans, barbaric people customs,
Christian in faith rather than in the works. Had her dwelling on the other side of Danube, and
recognized by the Lord to Scite Europe. Emperor his first EMBI Embassy offering to serve. Author
Gregoras Nicephore Greek of the time referred to as Andronico's considered much in so many words:
Fuel as pleasing to the Emperor as if from heaven.


A little shed had been constructed on the spot, of thatched hurdles and boughs, and in front
of it was a fire, over which a kettle sung. Fitzpiers sat down inside the shelter, and went
on with his reading, except when he looked up to observe the scene and the actors.  The thought
that he might settle here and become welded in with this sylvan life by marrying Grace Melbury
crossed his mind for a moment.  Why should he go farther into the world than where he was?
The secret of quiet happiness lay in limiting the ideas and aspirations; these men's thoughts
were conterminous with the margin of the Hintock woodlands, and why should not his be likewise
limited--a small practice among the people around him being the bound of his desires?

Presently Marty South discontinued her operations upon the quivering boughs, came out from
the reclining oak, and prepared tea.  When it was ready the men were called; and Fitzpiers
being in a mood to join, sat down with them.

The latent reason of his lingering here so long revealed itself when the faint creaking of
the joints of a vehicle became audible, and one of the men said, "Here's he." Turning their
heads they saw Melbury's gig approaching, the wheels muffled by the yielding moss.

The timber-merchant was on foot leading the horse, looking back at every few steps to caution
his daughter, who kept her seat, where and how to duck her head so as to avoid the overhanging
branches. They stopped at the spot where the bark-ripping had been temporarily suspended; Melbury
cursorily examined the heaps of bark, and drawing near to where the workmen were sitting down,
accepted their shouted invitation to have a dish of tea, for which purpose he hitched the horse
to a bough.  Grace declined to take any of their beverage, and remained in her place in the
vehicle, looking dreamily at the sunlight that came in thin threads through the hollies with
which the oaks were interspersed.

When Melbury stepped up close to the shelter, he for the first time perceived that the doctor
was present, and warmly appreciated Fitzpiers's invitation to sit down on the log beside him.

"Bless my heart, who would have thought of finding you here," he said, obviously much pleased
at the circumstance.  "I wonder now if my daughter knows you are so nigh at hand.  I don't
expect she do."

He looked out towards the gig wherein Grace sat, her face still turned in the opposite direction.
"She doesn't see us.  Well, never mind: let her be."

Grace was indeed quite unconscious of Fitzpiers's propinquity. She was thinking of something
which had little connection with the scene before her--thinking of her friend, lost as soon
as found, Mrs. Charmond; of her capricious conduct, and of the contrasting scenes she was possibly
enjoying at that very moment in other climes, to which Grace herself had hoped to be introduced
by her friend's means.  She wondered if this patronizing lady would return to Hintock during
the summer, and whether the acquaintance which had been nipped on the last occasion of her
residence there would develop on the next.

Melbury told ancient timber-stories as he sat, relating them directly to Fitzpiers, and obliquely
to the men, who had heard them often before.  Marty, who poured out tea, was just saying, "I
think I'll take out a cup to Miss Grace," when they heard a clashing of the gig-harness, and
turning round Melbury saw that the horse had become restless, and was jerking about the vehicle
in a way which alarmed its occupant, though she refrained from screaming.  Melbury jumped up
immediately, but not more quickly than Fitzpiers; and while her father ran to the horse's head
and speedily began to control him, Fitzpiers was alongside the gig assisting Grace to descend.
Her surprise at his appearance was so great that, far from making a calm and independent descent,
she was very nearly lifted down in his arms.  He relinquished her when she touched ground,
and hoped she was not frightened.

"Oh no, not much," she managed to say.  "There was no danger--unless he had run under the trees
where the boughs are low enough to hit my head."

"Which was by no means an impossibility, and justifies any amount of alarm."

He referred to what he thought he saw written in her face, and she could not tell him that
this had little to do with the horse, but much with himself.  His contiguity had, in fact,
the same effect upon her as on those former occasions when he had come closer to her than usual--that
of producing in her an unaccountable tendency to tearfulness.  Melbury soon put the horse to
rights, and seeing that Grace was safe, turned again to the work-people.  His daughter's nervous
distress had passed off in a few moments, and she said quite gayly to Fitzpiers as she walked
with him towards the group, "There's destiny in it, you see.  I was doomed to join in your
picnic, although I did not intend to do so."

Marty prepared her a comfortable place, and she sat down in the circle, and listened to Fitzpiers
while he drew from her father and the bark-rippers sundry narratives of their fathers', their
grandfathers', and their own adventures in these woods; of the mysterious sights they had seen--only
to be accounted for by supernatural agency; of white witches and black witches; and the standard
story of the spirits of the two brothers who had fought and fallen, and had haunted Hintock
House till they were exorcised by the priest, and compelled to retreat to a swamp in this very
wood, whence they were returning to their old quarters at the rate of a cock's stride every
New-year's Day, old style; hence the local saying, "On New-year's tide, a cock's stride."

It was a pleasant time.  The smoke from the little fire of peeled sticks rose between the sitters
and the sunlight, and behind its blue veil stretched the naked arms of the prostrate trees
The smell of the uncovered sap mingled with the smell of the burning wood, and the sticky inner
surface of the scattered bark glistened as it revealed its pale madder hues to the eye.  Melbury
was so highly satisfied at having Fitzpiers as a sort of guest that he would have sat on for
any length of time, but Grace, on whom Fitzpiers's eyes only too frequently alighted, seemed
to think it incumbent upon her to make a show of going; and her father thereupon accompanied
her to the vehicle.

As the doctor had helped her out of it he appeared to think that he had excellent reasons for
helping her in, and performed the attention lingeringly enough.

"What were you almost in tears about just now?" he asked, softly.

"I don't know," she said: and the words were strictly true.

Melbury mounted on the other side, and they drove on out of the grove, their wheels silently
crushing delicate-patterned mosses, hyacinths, primroses, lords-and-ladies, and other strange
and ordinary plants, and cracking up little sticks that lay across the track.  Their way homeward
ran along the crest of a lofty hill, whence on the right they beheld a wide valley, differing
both in feature and atmosphere from that of the Hintock precincts.  It was the cider country,
which met the woodland district on the axis of this hill.  Over the vale the air was blue as
sapphire--such a blue as outside that apple-valley was never seen.  Under the blue the orchards
were in a blaze of bloom, some of the richly flowered trees running almost up to where they
drove along. Over a gate which opened down the incline a man leaned on his arms, regarding
this fair promise so intently that he did not observe their passing.

"That was Giles," said Melbury, when they had gone by.

"Was it? Poor Giles," said she.

"All that blooth means heavy autumn work for him and his hands. If no blight happens before
the setting the apple yield will be such as we have not had for years."

Meanwhile, in the wood they had come from, the men had sat on so long that they were indisposed
to begin work again that evening; they were paid by the ton, and their time for labor was as
they chose.  They placed the last gatherings of bark in rows for the curers, which led them
farther and farther away from the shed; and thus they gradually withdrew as the sun went down.

Fitzpiers lingered yet.  He had opened his book again, though he could hardly see a word in
it, and sat before the dying fire, scarcely knowing of the men's departure.  He dreamed and
mused till his consciousness seemed to occupy the whole space of the woodland around, so little
was there of jarring sight or sound to hinder perfect unity with the sentiment of the place.
The idea returned upon him of sacrificing all practical aims to live in calm contentment here,
and instead of going on elaborating new conceptions with infinite pains, to accept quiet domesticity
according to oldest and homeliest notions. These reflections detained him till the wood was
embrowned with the coming night, and the shy little bird of this dusky time had begun to pour
out all the intensity of his eloquence from a bush not very far off.

Fitzpiers's eyes commanded as much of the ground in front as was open. Entering upon this he
saw a figure, whose direction of movement was towards the spot where he sat.  The surgeon was
quite shrouded from observation by the recessed shadow of the hut, and there was no reason
why he should move till the stranger had passed by.  The shape resolved itself into a woman's;
she was looking on the ground, and walking slowly as if searching for something that had been
lost, her course being precisely that of Mr. Melbury's gig.  Fitzpiers by a sort of divination
jumped to the idea that the figure was Grace's; her nearer approach made the guess a certainty.

Yes, she was looking for something; and she came round by the prostrate trees that would have
been invisible but for the white nakedness which enabled her to avoid them easily.  Thus she
approached the heap of ashes, and acting upon what was suggested by a still shining ember or
two, she took a stick and stirred the heap, which thereupon burst into a flame.  On looking
around by the light thus obtained she for the first time saw the illumined face of Fitzpiers,
precisely in the spot where she had left him.

Grace gave a start and a scream: the place had been associated with him in her thoughts, but
she had not expected to find him there still. And thus this lord Inca Yupanqui took this benefit and provision, until
the Indians were subjective input of the Spanish in these realms, with which this entry was lost
é CEBS.

Inca Yupanqui finish provide the order that was to take the city proveimiento of Cuzco and his country,
became lords his three good friends who craves had sent singles to marry, as history has told
you: and when he is in Cuzco these gentlemen é others in the city were Inca Yupanqui ordered
that all came together in her house other tomorrow, because I wanted to communicate with them
certain party, which wanted to party hiciese each year in the sun for the victory had given him
and made him Lord, and for on this holiday have memory, I wanted to be in it some thing there with
them on its board would communicate. And next morning these gentlemen gathered in the homes
of the Inca, who contacted them the party that yearns wanted to do: and for hobiese della memory
forever, he said to Inca Yupanqui I wanted it in this party hiciesen the apricots with certain
ceremonies and fasts, because such a thing than that, it was a sign and logo for the whole
dende meet a man earth were the lowest to the highest of the city by such masters and children
of the sun, because it seemed that from then on, had to be taken é respected the people of that
city by the city-wide [46] and more land that had been so there: and that it had to be called
the children of the sun, I wanted them to be made and ordered apricots at the celebration of
the sun with many ceremonies é fasts, because those who had been apricots made there, they and
their parents each and ears pierced when they wanted And well I was, é because that was something
that so easily was due to do so had already said, it seemed that it was good to have such order
and ceremonies in as follows: That came together the relatives of the boy who yearns orejon
had to be done, as was natural father of parts of the city of Cuzco and that he and his father
and mother were gentlemen, and if not, what was the father, and if that case had had no father,
that the relatives of his father and closest, and they hiciesen some feast to all other relatives,
and at this event should give order and tell how he wanted to do orejon to such child or debts;
rejoicing them ... [47] that the party that might be found and their prosperity and maintenance
I favor; [t] even if such party which was to make the richest of the bereaved, it was to entrust
to others that he favored his relatives in this party and other subcediesen things he craves, so
craves they had, because they meant to imply, prosperous than they were, had to take a lot
to those who had not so much because, Finally, it could be possible that this is way into
prosperity, which could be lost, and the other had not, therefore, be increased in property
and could help, and for always they had a brotherhood and confederation, was that order and
in that way. É that there Later, the name that other [48] Lord had the nickname that they and
others each nominate him as one talk with him, who appointed him Huaccha ccuyac [49] that
says "love of the poor," [50] [of] which institution, other descendants ANSI is entitled. 

Returning
to the case, said he, that being ANSI time, appointed a day in which day they assembled women
of such heirs of that craves orejon had to be done, and being ANSI time of such women, that
such a favorable answer some parents of young black wool, which were
sufficient for a shirt for her son, and so they brought, the split
between those women and that Another day, at that very site, should
give é hilasen made, and that this young man, that day that the shirt
that is done, start from there in the morning and go fasting in the
field, and take other boys get their own relatives, and he and they
catch each path é bring bales of straw, because them not idle, but
may learn to be aware é tamed, and that if anything it may hath need
of food, they know what it is to walk at work and fasting, and so
he brought this straw, é den distributed among women who have made
t, [t] dende to five days, he returned to join again and make another
party, which party do those women four barrels of corn beer, chicha
jars which are made from that at this event were made, until the entire
sun festival is over, forever quest é Atapas well, which each carry
five pitchers arrobas and from then to five days this boy go to the
hill Guanacaure fasting, going solo, and take another bundle of straw
and hand them women who made him chicha, which waiter, since T is
tile é do, always has to fast until the day you have one to be armed
orejon: and not to eat but regardless of raw corn, and that he do
not eat meat, or salt, or even have to do with women, and dende to
a month I'll start this fast, the relatives will bring such a girl
virgin who is not have known in men, which girl, being ansímismo in
fasting, then a pitcher chicha, which call pitcher calyx [51], and
this girl always walks in the company of these boy in the sacrifices
and fasts that while the party durare [did?], serving, and this chicha
made by this girl, relatives of the novel take it and carry forward,
"Likewise é the girl with him taking that pitcher of chicha called
calyx, and so they will lead to such novel to the huaca of Guanacaure,
which is a league and a half from the city, and a source there is,
relatives to wash their entire body this novel, and after washing
her hair shorn him very tusado, and after tusado, t put it on him
that they did those women First, black wool, and cálcenle shoes made
of straw, which the waiter made being in his fast, so you know, that
if the war and will fail us walk in shoes that the straw to know and
follow the enemy with them, and so they these shoes footwear, put
it in the head with a black ribbon and place it over a deep Desta
white ribbon and tie them around his neck a white blanket to hang
back, which is to be narrower than two feet in width é it takes from
head to foot, and this fact, put it in my hands a bunch of gordor
a straw doll, which ends up carrying straw, according to that born,
and hang it a shot Desta straw long ball of wool, it almost looks
like a snowflake long white hemp, and quest and yearning for it, get
to do the guaca is, é the girl who craves it leads, that pitcher calyx
swells two small glasses of chicha and give them the novel, which
drink one, and the other give it to drink the idol, which poured in
front of.

And this fact, will lower the novel and its relatives as the guaca, and come on to the city and bring
novel that straw, and erect, hands: and being anxiously in the city, the novel wear a T-shirt
colorful and with a white list of bottom-up by the shirt, with some flocadura according to
the top of the shirt, and put it on his head a red ribbon with a list of any color, and ANSI
standard, descapulario put it that way in the back, and from there, go to a morning guaca I
point out, which is called Anaguarque and arrivals there, make their sacrifice by giving some chicha
and before her a fire, fire which offered some coca é corn and tallow: and when anxiously
outside, relatives carried this novel, which sponsors almost want to imitate, some big and tall
halberds of gold and silver and now the sacrifice made, tie at the top, in the irons WITH
THESE halberds, that straw in the eager hands are hanging [of] such iron wool that hangs ANSI
straw, and being tied ANSI and this straw, give each of his novel a halberd WITH THESE in their
hands, and this has already been done, to all these novel júntenlos there shall be found and
send them From there they ran all together with their halberds in their hands, as well ANSI were
following range of enemies, and this is from the guaca run up a hill do it seems this city,
[t] are there in this site, to see true and [safe?] how come these gentlemen novice run, and who
is he that will END the first run, and this honor it as their own and give some thing and say
that he did as good orejon, é Give him Guaman surname, which says "hawk", and these such that
anxiously extremaren when dried apricots were made, are known, when the city of Cuzco hath war,
rise to the Penoles, as lighter, é fight with enemies.

And the next day out of the city, and I point out another guaca ansímismo, which will be called
guaca Yavir, which will be the idol of the grant: and when he is in it, do make a big fire offer
to this guaca é é é sun these sheep lambs, first by slitting their throats, blood which will be
made a mark with great reverence for faces, as it takes to ear to ear, and offer ansímismo to this
fire much corn and coca, which is made all with great reverence and observance, offering the
sun, and asked where these newcomers, é each for himself, which will increase prosperity and their
cattle, and the look and free from any evil comes your way. And it finished, he will be sworn
each for himself, before the idol, ternate always careful to comply with and revere the sun and
worked their land, and be obedient to the Inca and always treat you right and be loyal vassals
and not treat treason é that each and when you know that makes it treason to some Inca, demonstrations
and tell him; é that the same will be loyal to the city of Cuzco, and that each and when the Inca
is at war or the city of Cuzco, who served with his services, and weapons in this war, and who
will die Dell and the Inca defense.

And this jury, the man who abide in the guaca there, before whom the oath so, he will answer
in name and place of the sun and of the idol, who thanks him, and that he craves the right: and that
say that the sun has by property that is auqui [52], which says "gentleman." And this fact, that
such render thanks for this novel around the sun, and then you wear a shirt there too painted
and you put a blanket very painted over, all of which is fine clothes, and hang him ears a large
gold earrings dangling, tied with red thread, and to put a scallop of large golden breasts, and shoes
that fit cattail, put it é head very painted tape, called Pillaca llaut, that you put tape over
Desta a paten of gold, and until there's no waiter may get, and that if that thing be there
forget to put it, was never able to put in their days. And this fact, the market tends arms
to this novel, é those relatives who go there with him as sponsors, getting some stripes on
the arms with a deep, that you remember and has memory The oath that there does and worship
that she was done. And this fact, ANSI fall together to the square of this city, I long dresses
and adorned as we were, where they will find them all the lords of Cuzco dresses a long and colorful
shirts to give them to their feet, which they have on their heads mesmos [skins of lions with
their faces] [53], and the faces desto lions have in film speak [54] of his own, which have lion
heads ansímismo golden ears: and ansímismo have to have these gentlemen get on the square ANSI are
four drums of gold.

É as novices get into the place, get in the wing to the bottom, the faces towards do the sun
rises, and since has looked forward, knelt halberds craves bring on the floor, each one before him.
And as this is done, the gentlemen who are there, begin their singing and touch the drums,
and after having sung and holgádose, sit in a line as long for all are, and drink every two
glasses of chicha and two ansímismo offered to the sun, spilling before their halberds, and dende
little, get up and sing around her, in which song have to give great praise to the sun and
beg his people and to save and increase his novel; and this song
ended, he relapsed into drinking.

And this have to do thirty days from the day you start .-- Y every night in this way are snug
chicha, because their main joy in all their works and things to do, it's okay to drink, and the
more drink, more, sir, because they opportunity to do so.

É ordered these thirty days of age, came together in the square where relatives desto the junior
novels and a favorable answer it there, kneeling E halberd, and when they were in standing,
with hands tomasen the halberd, and so he, stretched out his arms, family members should give them
with a sling on them, that they might report were agreed Desta é party, and that this fact
there were a source to say Calixpucquiu [55], which says "the source of Calix [56] and being
already there, to wash all, to which source they want to go as dark. É ANSI being washed, Hansen
wear other shirts precious, and so they dressed, their relatives stone them with a prickly
pear [57], and every parent, I long as I have stoned with the tunas, they are obliged to provide
such novel certain pieces of jewelry and clothing, and give him ansímismo, desto finally, to
every one of this novel, a sling.

And this is done, every one of these novel must return to his house, whose house is to find very
clean, and very good fire made in it and all their relatives and relatives in it, and then have
to take the four pitchers of chicha they did in the beginning of the feast, which pitchers have
to drink all, and this novel have such imbriagar with chicha so that no [58] makes sense, and
as soon and this longing, hanle to take the room, and where they best they seem good, there
shall bore ears. And tomorrow's another day, go all the novice to the place all together in order
While fighting and ANSI as if to give battle, with their slings in their hands and necks to bags
of networks, which bring many Chinese, and put out as much of a another in the plaza, begin to
battle, which must give battle to the end that they need to understand craves have to fight
with their enemies. In this manner I think it must be these cirimonias, and on this art ordered
triple [in] doing the apricots and not what has been hitherto.

Heard by the Lords what he had ordered Inca Yupanqui, said that was fine ordered and thought, so
there were being put to forward, and to tell them that since when I wanted to begin this party?
He told them that there could be thirty days to begin because that's where do we begin the month
of the year was beginning, and they begged him that because so there had been no order to do knew
the year and the months that had [for good?] signals and the recital of which begun, and the
names of those months. And Ynca I replied that that party after the sun, he had thought of giving
in that order; more, because they invited him to the charms and signs
(and) that he wanted to do that grace: and that at present there was
no place for them to account for this, because I thought identify
and sort such months in the other parties in that they all rejoice
é hiciesen their sacrifices, that from thence to ten days, I would
say that the order that had to have é parties they were to gay and
sacrifices that had to ANSI.

And that said, out of their agreement he and the other gentlemen, which were each to his inn,
where began to give orders to their parties, which have heard that from then to thirty days
were to start, which thirty days ago, made his party the way they have heard; dende and then
I continued to do in the way and that, until this year we are of fifteen hundred and fifty-one
years .-- The party and the other that the Lord established, although the wish to remove in
this city of Cuzco, the often hidden or secret they do in villages which are surrounding the
city of Cuzco.

After that were the ten days Inca Yupanqui Messrs. said that after those came together with him
again, which together had to tell them the order that they asked ANSI that would make the year
and months and the more parties that they had to have and keep, Inca
Yupanqui told them he had many years he had imagined the months and
time of year, which had found that they were twelve and I did not
think saying a desto twelve months and times thing, but it was good
as were going ANSI and such parties that they had them He was to pose,
but because they had asked, he wanted to ask what (So) and say and
declare the parties and the sacrifices that those months were to ANSI
do, they were attentive and the tomasen firmly in mind, that besides
this, I look forward mesmo I had thought of doing a certain thing
he called Pachaunanchango, which means "knower time "[59] - we can
presume Relox - by which they and their descendants, and they lost
track of the months, you would understand when the time of sowing,
labor é, é dressing their land.

And ANSI, the lords being attentive, Inca Yupanqui said unto them this coming month, in which
have to make the pears, as I have told you, that's where the year begins, we shall call and has
called Pucuy quillaimi [60], which is our December, and January called Coyquis has time, and one
month called Ccollappoccoyquis Hebrero [61] and the March call Pachapoccoyquis [62] and as
of April Ayrihuaquis [63] and the month of May called Aymorayquis Keel [64]. In this month was
ordered é Inca Yupanqui that it should be another party in the sun very solene, in which hiciesen
great sacrifices in order to quel the earth had given them and corn that she had, and that since then
began to fuck their maize, were to begin the party and last until at the end of June, and that
in the month of June, which called Hatun cosqui quillan, than in December last year were ordered
apricots in aquesta party constituted in the month of June, to dress shirts woven of gold and silver
and iridescent feathers, and can not wait posts patens é their feathers and gold bracelets,
saliesen to this feast, and that at this event should give an end to their fasting and sacrifices,
since they were sorted apricots until there had been, and there began to rejoice and celebrate
another constituted craves to be had by Simentera sun, to which party ANSI starting from May
until late June, as we have heard, called and appointed Yahuarincha aymoray [65]. Which sent party
that was done in the square is the agora do espital in Cuzco, which is at the outlet of this
city, do call Rimacpampa, to which party had Messrs. dresses out of the city of a red shirt that gave
up feet, in which party ordered it hiciesen great sacrifices to idols, do they burn many cattle slaughtered
é é é food clothing, and in such guacas were offered many gold and silver jewelry.

As of July was called Cahuarquis [66], which ordered that no party will do him no, most of them
said this month they were to irrigate their land, were to begin é plant their corn and potatoes
and quinoa [67] until the month of September came out é, and August Capacsiquis called [68],
and the month of September called Cituaiquis [69]. This month say that it was Inca Yupanqui hiciesen
two parties, one almost wants to look to which we do in San Juan, because they rise at midnight
and washed until rie day, and have some torches lit, and after being washed, these torches danse
in the back, and throw himself say that any ill health and bad they have. É the other party
is [T] he called the Inca Yupanqui Purappucquiu [70], [é] é ansímismo sent the to do this month,
which he commanded that they should do to the water, the hiciesen E ansímismo sacrifices and these
sacrifices commanded that offered a lot of clothes and sheep and coca, and that in any few
herbs and plants that were in the fields, flowers Dellas favorable answer, all of which commanded
offered the waters in this way: them to take plenty of clothes and cast them in that River of Cuzco
in the do the two rivers meet, that many sheep and a favorable answer ansímismo lamb and to
offer them water, and decapitated in that place do the clothes were cast, and then that would
make a great fire there which burnt these sheep and lambs, the ciniza é of those eager burned,
cast into the water at that very site, and then after that, cast into the river and the flowers
have heard: and after this, he cast them into the water that lot of ground coca é shredded.
 "I came from that.  I want
Hintock House.  Is there not a path to it across here?"

"Well, yes, a sort of path.  But it is hard to find from this point. I'll show you the way,
sir, with great pleasure."

"Thanks, my good friend.  The truth is that I decided to walk across the country after dinner
from the hotel at Sherton, where I am staying for a day or two.  But I did not know it was so far."

"It is about a mile to the house from here."

They walked on together.  As there was no path, Giles occasionally stepped in front and bent
aside the underboughs of the trees to give his companion a passage, saying every now and then
when the twigs, on being released, flew back like whips, "Mind your eyes, sir." To which the
stranger replied, "Yes, yes," in a preoccupied tone.

So they went on, the leaf-shadows running in their usual quick succession over the forms of
the pedestrians, till the stranger said,

"Is it far?"

"Not much farther," said Winterborne.  "The plantation runs up into a corner here, close behind
the house." He added with hesitation, "You know, I suppose, sir, that Mrs. Charmond is not
at home?"

"You mistake," said the other, quickly.  "Mrs.  Charmond has been away for some time, but she's
at home now."

Giles did not contradict him, though he felt sure that the gentleman was wrong.

"You are a native of this place?" the stranger said.

"Yes."

"Well, you are happy in having a home.  It is what I don't possess."

"You come from far, seemingly?"

"I come now from the south of Europe."

"Oh, indeed, sir.  You are an Italian, or Spanish, or French gentleman, perhaps?"

"I am not either."

Giles did not fill the pause which ensued, and the gentleman, who seemed of an emotional nature,
unable to resist friendship, at length answered the question.

"I am an Italianized American, a South Carolinian by birth," he said. "I left my native country
on the failure of the Southern cause, and have never returned to it since."

He spoke no more about himself, and they came to the verge of the wood. Here, striding over
the fence out upon the upland sward, they could at once see the chimneys of the house in the
gorge immediately beneath their position, silent, still, and pale.

"Can you tell me the time?" the gentleman asked.  "My watch has stopped."

"It is between twelve and one," said Giles.

His companion expressed his astonishment.  "I thought it between nine and ten at latest! Dear
me--dear me!"

He now begged Giles to return, and offered him a gold coin, which looked like a sovereign,
for the assistance rendered.  Giles declined to accept anything, to the surprise of the stranger,
who, on putting the money back into his pocket, said, awkwardly, "I offered it because I want
you to utter no word about this meeting with me.  Will you promise?"

Winterborne promised readily.  He thereupon stood still while the other ascended the slope.
At the bottom he looked back dubiously. Giles would no longer remain when he was so evidently
desired to leave, and returned through the boughs to Hintock.

He suspected that this man, who seemed so distressed and melancholy, might be that lover and
persistent wooer of Mrs. Charmond whom he had heard so frequently spoken of, and whom it was
said she had treated cavalierly.  But he received no confirmation of his suspicion beyond a
report which reached him a few days later that a gentleman had called up the servants who were
taking care of Hintock House at an hour past midnight; and on learning that Mrs. Charmond,
though returned from abroad, was as yet in London, he had sworn bitterly, and gone away without
leaving a card or any trace of himself.

The girls who related the story added that he sighed three times before he swore, but this
part of the narrative was not corroborated.  Anyhow, such a gentleman had driven away from
the hotel at Sherton next day in a carriage hired at that inn.

CHAPTER XXII.

The sunny, leafy week which followed the tender doings of Midsummer Eve brought a visitor to
Fitzpiers's door; a voice that he knew sounded in the passage.  Mr. Melbury had called.  At
first he had a particular objection to enter the parlor, because his boots were dusty, but
as the surgeon insisted he waived the point and came in.

Looking neither to the right nor to the left, hardly at Fitzpiers himself, he put his hat under
his chair, and with a preoccupied gaze at the floor, he said, "I've called to ask you, doctor,
quite privately, a question that troubles me.  I've a daughter, Grace, an only daughter, as
you may have heard.  Well, she's been out in the dew--on Midsummer Eve in particular she went
out in thin slippers to watch some vagary of the Hintock maids--and she's got a cough, a distinct
hemming and hacking, that makes me uneasy. Now, I have decided to send her away to some seaside
place for a change--"

"Send her away!" Fitzpiers's countenance had fallen.

"Yes.  And the question is, where would you advise me to send her?"

The timber-merchant had happened to call at a moment when Fitzpiers was at the spring-tide
of a sentiment that Grace was a necessity of his existence.  The sudden pressure of her form
upon his breast as she came headlong round the bush had never ceased to linger with him, ever
since he adopted the manoeuvre for which the hour and the moonlight and the occasion had been
the only excuse. Now she was to be sent away. Ambition? it could be postponed. Family? culture
and reciprocity of tastes had taken the place of family nowadays.  He allowed himself to be
carried forward on the wave of his desire.

"How strange, how very strange it is," he said, "that you should have come to me about her
just now.  I have been thinking every day of coming to you on the very same errand."

"Ah!--you have noticed, too, that her health----"

"I have noticed nothing the matter with her health, because there is nothing.  But, Mr. Melbury,
I have seen your daughter several times by accident.  I have admired her infinitely, and I
was coming to ask you if I may become better acquainted with her--pay my addresses to her?"

Melbury was looking down as he listened, and did not see the air of half-misgiving at his own
rashness that spread over Fitzpiers's face as he made this declaration.

"You have--got to know her?" said Melbury, a spell of dead silence having preceded his utterance,
during which his emotion rose with almost visible effect.

"Yes," said Fitzpiers.

"And you wish to become better acquainted with her? You mean with a view to marriage--of course
that is what you mean?"

"Yes," said the young man.  "I mean, get acquainted with her, with a view to being her accepted
lover; and if we suited each other, what would naturally follow."

The timber-merchant was much surprised, and fairly agitated; his hand trembled as he laid by
his walking-stick.  "This takes me unawares," said he, his voice wellnigh breaking down.  "I
don't mean that there is anything unexpected in a gentleman being attracted by her; but it
did not occur to me that it would be you. I always said," continued he, with a lump in his
throat, "that my Grace would make a mark at her own level some day.  That was why I educated
her.  I said to myself, 'I'll do it, cost what it may;' though her mother-law was pretty frightened
at my paying out so much money year after year.  I knew it would tell in the end. 'Where you've
not good material to work on, such doings would be waste and vanity,' I said.  'But where you
have that material it is sure to be worth while.'"

"I am glad you don't object," said Fitzpiers, almost wishing that Grace had not been quite
so cheap for him.

"If she is willing I don't object, certainly.  Indeed," added the honest man, "it would be
deceit if I were to pretend to feel anything else than highly honored personally; and it is
a great credit to her to have drawn to her a man of such good professional station and venerable
old family.  That huntsman-fellow little thought how wrong he was about her! Take her and welcome,
sir."

"I'll endeavor to ascertain her mind."

"Yes, yes.  But she will be agreeable, I should think.  She ought to be."

"I hope she may.  Well, now you'll expect to see me frequently."

"Oh yes.  But, name it all--about her cough, and her going away. I had quite forgot that that
was what I came about."

"I assure you," said the surgeon, "that her cough can only be the result of a slight cold,
and it is not necessary to banish her to any seaside place at all."

Melbury looked unconvinced, doubting whether he ought to take Fitzpiers's professional opinion
in circumstances which naturally led him to wish to keep her there.  The doctor saw this, and
honestly dreading to lose sight of her, he said, eagerly, "Between ourselves, if I am successful
with her I will take her away myself for a month or two, as soon as we are married, which I
hope will be before the chilly weather comes on.  This will be so very much better than letting
her go now."

The proposal pleased Melbury much.  There could be hardly any danger in postponing any desirable
change of air as long as the warm weather lasted, and for such a reason.  Suddenly recollecting
himself, he said, "Your time must be precious, doctor.  I'll get home-along.  I am much obliged
to ye.  As you will see her often, you'll discover for yourself if anything serious is the matter."

"I can assure you it is nothing," said Fitzpiers, who had seen Grace much oftener already than
her father knew of.

When he was gone Fitzpiers paused, silent, registering his sensations, like a man who has made
a plunge for a pearl into a medium of which he knows not the density or temperature.  But he
had done it, and Grace was the sweetest girl alive.

As for the departed visitor, his own last words lingered in Melbury's ears as he walked homeward;
he felt that what he had said in the emotion of the moment was very stupid, ungenteel, and
unsuited to a dialogue with an educated gentleman, the smallness of whose practice was more
than compensated by the former greatness of his family.  He had uttered thoughts before they
were weighed, and almost before they were shaped.  They had expressed in a certain sense his
feeling at Fitzpiers's news, but yet they were not right.  Looking on the ground, and planting
his stick at each tread as if it were a flag-staff, he reached his own precincts, where, as
he passed through the court, he automatically stopped to look at the men working in the shed
and around.  One of them asked him a question about wagon-spokes.

"Hey?" said Melbury, looking hard at him.  The man repeated the words.

Melbury stood; then turning suddenly away without answering, he went up the court and entered
the house.  As time was no object with the journeymen, except as a thing to get past, they
leisurely surveyed the door through which he had disappeared.

"What maggot has the gaffer got in his head now?" said Tangs the elder. "Sommit to do with
that chiel of his! When you've got a maid of yer own, John Upjohn, that costs ye what she costs
him, that will take the squeak out of your Sunday shoes, John! But you'll never be tall enough
to accomplish such as she; and 'tis a lucky thing for ye, John, as things be.  Well, he ought
to have a dozen--that would bring him to reason.  I see 'em walking together last Sunday, and
when they came to a puddle he lifted her over like a halfpenny doll.  He ought to have a dozen;
he'd let 'em walk through puddles for themselves then."

Meanwhile Melbury had entered the house with the look of a man who sees a vision before him.
His wife was in the room.  Without taking off his hat he sat down at random.

"Luce--we've done it!" he said.  "Yes--the thing is as I expected. The spell, that I foresaw
might be worked, has worked.  She's done it, and done it well.  Where is she--Grace, I mean?"

"Up in her room--what has happened!"

Mr. Melbury explained the circumstances as coherently as he could. "I told you so," he said.
"A maid like her couldn't stay hid long, even in a place like this.  But where is Grace? Let's
have her down. Here--Gra-a-ace!"

She appeared after a reasonable interval, for she was sufficiently spoiled by this father of
hers not to put herself in a hurry, however impatient his tones.  "What is it, father?" said
she, with a smile.

"Why, you scamp, what's this you've been doing? Not home here more than six months, yet, instead
of confining yourself to your father's rank, making havoc in the educated classes."

Though accustomed to show herself instantly appreciative of her father's meanings, Grace was
fairly unable to look anyhow but at a loss now.

"No, no--of course you don't know what I mean, or you pretend you don't; though, for my part,
I believe women can see these things through a double hedge.  But I suppose I must tell ye.
Why, you've flung your grapnel over the doctor, and he's coming courting forthwith."

"Only think of that, my dear! Don't you feel it a triumph?" said Mrs. Melbury.

"Coming courting! I've done nothing to make him," Grace exclaimed.

"'Twasn't necessary that you should, 'Tis voluntary that rules in these things....Well, he
has behaved very honorably, and asked my consent. You'll know what to do when he gets here,
I dare say.  I needn't tell you to make it all smooth for him."

"You mean, to lead him on to marry me?"

"I do.  Haven't I educated you for it?"

Grace looked out of the window and at the fireplace with no animation in her face.  "Why is
it settled off-hand in this way?" said she, coquettishly.  "You'll wait till you hear what
I think of him, I suppose?"

"Oh yes, of course.  But you see what a good thing it will be."

She weighed the statement without speaking.

"You will be restored to the society you've been taken away from," continued her father; "for
I don't suppose he'll stay here long."

She admitted the advantage; but it was plain that though Fitzpiers exercised a certain fascination
over her when he was present, or even more, an almost psychic influence, and though his impulsive
act in the wood had stirred her feelings indescribably, she had never regarded him in the light
of a destined husband.  "I don't know what to answer," she said.  "I have learned that he is
very clever."

"He's all right, and he's coming here to see you."

A premonition that she could not resist him if he came strangely moved her.  "Of course, father,
you remember that it is only lately that Giles--"

"You know that you can't think of him.  He has given up all claim to you."

She could not explain the subtleties of her feeling as he could state his opinion, even though
she had skill in speech, and her father had none.  That Fitzpiers acted upon her like a dram,
exciting her, throwing her into a novel atmosphere which biassed her doings until the influence
was over, when she felt something of the nature of regret for the mood she had experienced--still
more if she reflected on the silent, almost sarcastic, criticism apparent in Winterborne's
air towards her--could not be told to this worthy couple in words.

It so happened that on this very day Fitzpiers was called away from Hintock by an engagement
to attend some medical meetings, and his visits, therefore, did not begin at once.  A note,
however, arrived from him addressed to Grace, deploring his enforced absence.  As a material
object this note was pretty and superfine, a note of a sort that she had been unaccustomed
to see since her return to Hintock, except when a school friend wrote to her--a rare instance,
for the girls were respecters of persons, and many cooled down towards the timber-dealer's
daughter when she was out of sight.  Thus the receipt of it pleased her, and she afterwards
walked about with a reflective air.

In the evening her father, who knew that the note had come, said, "Why be ye not sitting down
to answer your letter? That's what young folks did in my time."

She replied that it did not require an answer.

"Oh, you know best," he said.  Nevertheless, he went about his business doubting if she were
right in not replying; possibly she might be so mismanaging matters as to risk the loss of
an alliance which would bring her much happiness.

Melbury's respect for Fitzpiers was based less on his professional position, which was not
much, than on the standing of his family in the county in by-gone days.  That implicit faith
in members of long-established families, as such, irrespective of their personal condition
or character, which is still found among old-fashioned people in the rural districts reached
its full intensity in Melbury.  His daughter's suitor was descended from a family he had heard
of in his grandfather's time as being once great, a family which had conferred its name upon
a neighboring village; how, then, could anything be amiss in this betrothal?

"I must keep her up to this," he said to his wife.  "She sees it is for her happiness; but
still she's young, and may want a little prompting from an older tongue."

CHAPTER XXIII.

With this in view he took her out for a walk, a custom of his when he wished to say anything
specially impressive.  Their way was over the top of that lofty ridge dividing their woodland
from the cider district, whence they had in the spring beheld the miles of apple-trees in bloom.
All was now deep green.  The spot recalled to Grace's mind the last occasion of her presence
there, and she said, "The promise of an enormous apple-crop is fulfilling itself, is it not?
I suppose Giles is getting his mills and presses ready."

This was just what her father had not come there to talk about. Without replying he raised
his arm, and moved his finger till he fixed it at a point.  "There," he said, "you see that
plantation reaching over the hill like a great slug, and just behind the hill a particularly
green sheltered bottom?  That's where Mr. Fitzpiers's family were lords of the manor for I
don't know how many hundred years, and there stands the village of Buckbury Fitzpiers. What would inexperienced
school, just out of school, become head of household? Responded to their diligence, of his devotion,
but not trusted in their abilities. He was encouraged to know that all Villaverde knew him,
that there for some time now, all his considerations of the most deserved villaverdinos conspicuous.
He was encouraged by this, but while it looked somewhat painful Value humiliation! God helps those
who help.

XI

Left me sad and dejected Andrew conversation. The generosity of that servant, faithful in all times
to their owners, filled me with admiration. Andrew had no family, never knew his parents; he was
orphaned at an early age and spent her childhood in the countryside, playing rudísimas work, serving
people who treated him badly.

I used to remember the bitterness of that time, and had thoroughly their work and their sentences,
but never heard him complain of the harshness their first masters,
and never let slip a word against them.

My father took the ranch where he lived, he took his service, and
soon the boy was worthy of love from all of us.

He would not marry.

- Why? - Answered .-- What? I do not need the family.

You are my family, You are everything to me!

When the family came to less, and my aunt could no longer repay their services, Andrew be more useful
to us that wishes to thrive, we left and went to settle in a town nearby. With their savings
depleted and having very secretly provide for the needs family, started
a shop, where, through hard work and savings made a piquillo that
- as I said, - was enough to live and the ladies auxiliary.

My Aunt Carmen fell sick, and Andres said :--«¡ A Villaverde! I live not far from the family.
Now more than ever they need me. What good is going to see them from
time to time?

"

Transferred, cheapening the "little shop", rolled the mat, and came to Villaverde. In Pluviosilla
had been better and would have thrived easily, but as his object
was to live close to my aunts hesitate to move to the Buddhist city.

While he lived in Santa Rosa came every week, without fail ever, and rain poured down. Between
eight and nine in the morning, there was Andrew in his horse, heavily
laden with fruit, seeds, and poultry.

Upon leaving, Sunday evening or very early Monday, leaving no to put in the dining room four or
five dollars, perhaps much of their profits.

From time to time at school I received a gift from Him: great fruit, mangos Cordovan AMATEC pineapples,
oranges and limes. Sometimes money spent after harvest snuff and coffee. Upon receipt of the
ten or twelve dollars :--«¡ Andrés told me money is!

"And I'm glad I for him and my aunts.

Once I got a box of cigars. I gave it Ricardo Tejeda.

Within the letter of Aunt Pepa came a strip of paper on which he wrote Andrew, that your letter
clumsy and awkward: "So that'll suck. Already a big boy, and you'll like the good cigars.
Said I love a good cigar conceals the arranquera swinging.

"

So I did not like snuff. Ricardo smoked all the cigars.

On Sunday I had made a dandy:

- Rodolfo: give me one of those of our land!

The tobacco realized, he did not need to hide the arranquera.

The faithful servant, established in Villaverde, back in the neighborhood of San Antonio, in
a store it was called "legality", was, as always, an order for aunts. Course decided that they
will attend, and therefore paid more than fair.

- That nothing is missing; - repeat - we will see how far reaching the pita!

None of this I said, I learned later from the lips of Aunt Pepa. The good old merely offer so
perhaps it was not possible to do - spend everything he had.

Neither Andrew nor his health "piquillo" resist spending four years and four years, when least
would be necessary for me to have a title and I might try to mate the Dr. Sarmiento or Mr. Castro
Perez.

I had to settle for what the fate in store for me. I resigned myself to leave the books and give
to the joys of student life, to search Villaverde which may not be missing: a destinejo each
month to give me some hard.

I relied on the kindness of my countrymen, in the benevolence of our friends, for whom was no
mystery the precarious situation of my aunts. I flattered myself that the idea were to cease
in that house embarrassments.

Perhaps in the future, we would enjoy life so much easier; and, indeed, I was flattered to be
the boss of the house. With more money the patient would be better served, we would see relief,
and perhaps regain health.

No one contacted my projects.

I tried, not without difficulty, to see me happy and contented. I was embarrassed and sad. I think
I miss that house, and I felt degraded upon receipt of the elderly
poor as I needed, no, because filial affection I saw them, and motherly
love you always treat me away from my mind the whole idea mean and
humiliating every thought.

For several days I was miserable. For the night, good short hour, I shut myself up in my room,
metíame in bed, and I started to read. I read pages and pages, without considering the concepts.
In a very old cabinet I found myself several Books: A History of Napoleon, do not remember what
classic warfare, and oh joy! two or three volumes of Walter Scott.

I took one, "The Bride of Lammermoor." In a few nights you gave purpose. After finishing the
last page I noticed that this reading had been useless. My head it
was not for novels.

Early, before they woke up my aunts, I went out to the patio. There I washed myself in a great basin
that from the day before put to me on the edge of the source, among
the pots flowering, under the canopy of an umbrella-shaped bell whose
satin floripondio swung quickens the breath of morning winds, while
branches in cages and the birds sang the incomparable autumn dawn.

Frolicked in the water spout and overflow into the pylon fell. On the surface of liquid crystalline
rowed fallen petals and flowers at night. It I fancied skiff, rowed
gondolillas wonderful that invisible beings.

I returned to my room. Soon Angelina was beginning his morning chore. Soon echoed in the corridor
the sound of her broom.

In her lips whispered cheerful ditty like a soft echo, barely perceptible,
to which the winged musicians sang in his prison of reeds and the
glass of orange trees and adorned with yellow apples.

Upon leaving I stopped to talk to the maid. Tratábala me as a favorite sister, and sought to inspire
confidence, but she was always reserved and scary. No But I soon realize that breeze that hit
me so prudish in Angelina the first day, was just shy of kindness,
too, in harmony with nature and beauty, very natural in one who had
had so much to mourn.

The talk, which began with a flattering phrase in praise of his diligence,
he would soon entangled little, without knowing how, and more than
once Pepilla aunt came to interrupt our conversation.

Those sweet moments!

Angelina, standing near the railing, wrapped in a shawl, fallen arms with pleasant indolence in
his hands the broom lazy. I straddled a chair, or set foot on the crossbar. It, listen baby, I, bathed
in light of her wide eyes.

At the time, if we announced a noise coming Aunt Pepa, without reason, without knowing why, we said
goodbye in a hurry, and I went out due to more distant neighborhoods.

I returned to breakfast. And the house was ready, scanning the broker, arranged the living room,
prepared the table. The girl used to sit next to me. I attended and I served as a loving sister
preferred the little boy, ready to satisfy all my desires and whims,
read his thoughts.

My aunt seemed to revel in the sweet and simple fellowship. Anyone who saw us together the three,
would have believed that we were two brothers, and that the old woman was our mother.

Breakfast often lasted an hour. Aunt Pepa talking to your taste. Me and Angelina did not felt
time pass.

The old lady got up to go about their business, and passing behind of us stopped and caressed
us, to me, shaking my head between her hands to her patting him on each cheek.

A campanillazo used to terminate the conversation. Aunt Carmen was called.

- Where is my Angelina? What does my Angelina does not come?

XII

Then would I greet the sick. The poor thing went very bad nights. He suffered from insomnia, seizure
attacks and was forced to leave the bed for a few hours and walk through the room, leaning
on the arm of Angelina.

- It gives me a Sister of Charity! - I said .-- Me Aunt Carmen has no poor thing restful sleep.

And Angelina:

- Poor you! You are very good, very good! What obligation to ensure
you have my dream?

It gives me penalty call, yes, I'm sorry!

If I do it because I do not want to wake Pepa. The unfortunate falls
exhausted, and is no longer for that!

While I was talking to the patient, the distant runner met the disciples: twenty or thirty little
children of the principal families of Villaverde, a mischievous cherub choir and pampered.

Soon
echoed in the courtyard of the study gay rumor. The good lady was a lesson to each child, and
then put to work in a long narrow table.

My aunt's hands, clever by far, went all the bouquets that adorned
the churches Villaverde.

Flowers of all kinds, and colors. Some, fantastic, silver and gold paper; others, the most
beautiful and well arranged so characteristic that, at some distance, no one would distinguish of
natural. There, twisting wires, threading buds, petals Acoca, painting leaflets, my aunt spent
the whole morning and all afternoon. Just dropping his efforts to address children and take
their lesson.

The young man came to the aid of the elderly. The maid was painted
for those tasks.

Of received flowers and bouquets hand finishing touch.

What garlands and festoons what those were! Gallardos, loose, flexible, such as guides and cabrifollos
convolvulus that shaded the source.

Roses ... Ah! Roses! Beautiful and splendid out of the hands of the elderly, but Angelina embellished
to the touch. A drive shaft, a rebellious leaf, a petal without grace, received all of the
young singular beauty. It seemed that passed through the clusters a breath of spring flowers
giving life and freshness.

The children, attracted by such beauty, left their seats and went step by step placing around the
florist. With hands behind, hiding the book, long I stood there gawking and staring in front of
so many wonders.

At twelve concluded the task. The servants came by children, and it was time for the lesson. My
aunt showed severe frown, scolded, threatened. The boys preferred Angelina will take the lesson.
She, patient and kind, the children were getting attentive, and with a look or a touch put order
in the mob of imps blond silk dresses with skirts.

Angelina was a very smart girl. He wrote with great delicacy. Linda his letter; Loose, italic,
elegant, without the grace of the strokes made him lose that softness female character is expressed
not only in style, but transcends the form of letters, provided that
she does not presume to know or like to draw attention.

Hardly you missed a misspelling.

He wrote as he spoke, with great naturalness and simplicity, without digging or dapper phrases,
following the logical order of ideas, removed from the calculated involvement, which makes the
epistolary style unbearable and ridiculous thing. But why not fell in the extreme, ritual formulas
and the concepts of stamp. It was very given to books, but only read when it allowed her chores.
I read every night the "Christian Year", and knew by heart the lives of the saints.

One night I had to read the life of Santa Teresa.

- Jesus! - I said .-- If you already know it by heart. I can repeat the pe to pa!
And Aunt Carmen doubted, Angelina spoke with very good agreement
and very gracefully, life mysticism.

Rare thing in a young, loved
to serious books and perished by the historical. There read three
or four times the "History" of Alamo, and I used to dare against the
judgments of famous writer, not without great displeasure of Aunt
Pepa, for whom were those of Don Lucas a gospel.

Parental history
ran very donosura, smiling, without fatuities or displays of knowledge.
It would be worthwhile to record here the trial of Angelina on some
books. For her there had better novelist Fernán Caballero, or worse
Escrich novelist Perez.

- Open a book of these, the 'Adulterous Woman',
the 'wife Martha, "and being sleepy is all one! "Novels? Fernan Caballero.
His characters seem Vivitar, flesh and blood. That yes it's true!
Eat, sleep .... If I find people who deal every day! I do not understand
these things .... Fernán but I like books because life painting as
it is. Have you read "The Seagull?" "" Eli? "" Tears "?"

- And Cervantes,
what about you, Angelina?

- That is separate! '"Don Quixote?" It's
something that seems novel and perhaps it is not ....

- Well then
....

- I fail to explain. If it is a novel, but there is something
in that book that puts you over of all novels.

I spent long hours
talking to Angelina. Despite the state of my mood and depression of
my mind, when weaving with her live network talk, I recovered my good
mood another time, and I became happy and jolly, and I forgot that
these enervating melancholy have been and perhaps still are, somber
note of my character for this character my dreamer and languid, given
to laziness and daydreaming, vague delirium and meditation without
an object. Pernicious melancholy, perhaps born in my soul when I lived
away from my family, condemned to solitude a school whose dilapidated
cloisters darkened my spirit melancholy that draws me to the fields
and dense forests for long hours entranced by the spectacle glare
on the shores of Lake dormant, hiding among the reeds, or engulfed
in contemplation of an unknown flower, modest and rustic beauty. Feeling
sad of nature that the world hated me loud and frivolous and the attractions
of a society vain; deep sense of the beauties of the physical world,
feelings that develop in my Romantic poets and novelists. Fortunately
I redeemed a little of the concerns and false ideas of romanticism,
and though not entirely free of them because I still have in La Martine
yeast soul, I look at life differently, do not pretend that everything
is to my taste and as my desire, and live quietly as any good person
live without torment me poetic aspirations, nor would I wander useless
delusions or embitter me delicate sentimentality. 

XIII

At ten o'clock
I took my hat and went for a walk around the city. At first I preferred
the suburbs, dark alleys, the picturesque banks of the Stony or squares
of the Alameda, a vast box of ashes strewn at the foot of the hill
of brushes; mall without flowers and without trees cornered, they
retreat so I was gentle and pleasing. In the shade of an orange, the
only grown and lush, noisy and at the top nesting birds, I spent the
morning. There, in a mossy seat and chipped, I gave myself to reading
of my favorite authors, there I read the 'Atala' and 'Renato', the
'Raphael' and 'Grace', there I devoured the "Count of Monte Cristo"
and I went through, to my sorrow, some novels of George Sand, grieved
my heart and my soul left in sediments of aloes. I tasted there's
poetry Zorrilla. Zorrilla!  "There's a time for a woman to alter her mind; and there's
a time when she can no longer alter it, if she has any right eye to her parents' honor and
the seemliness of things. That time has come.  I won't say to ye, you SHALL marry him.  But
I will say that if you refuse, I shall forever be ashamed and a-weary of ye as a daughter,
and shall look upon you as the hope of my life no more.  What do you know about life and what
it can bring forth, and how you ought to act to lead up to best ends?  Oh, you are an ungrateful
maid, Grace; you've seen that fellow Giles, and he has got over ye; that's where the secret
lies, I'll warrant me!"

"No, father, no! It is not Giles--it is something I cannot tell you of--"

"Well, make fools of us all; make us laughing-stocks; break it off; have your own way."

"But who knows of the engagement as yet? how can breaking it disgrace you?"

Melbury then by degrees admitted that he had mentioned the engagement to this acquaintance
and to that, till she perceived that in his restlessness and pride he had published it everywhere.
She went dismally away to a bower of laurel at the top of the garden.  Her father followed her.

"It is that Giles Winterborne!" he said, with an upbraiding gaze at her.

"No, it is not; though for that matter you encouraged him once," she said, troubled to the
verge of despair.  "It is not Giles, it is Mr. Fitzpiers."

"You've had a tiff--a lovers' tiff--that's all, I suppose

"It is some woman--"

"Ay, ay; you are jealous.  The old story.  Don't tell me.  Now do you bide here.  I'll send
Fitzpiers to you. I saw him smoking in front of his house but a minute by-gone."

He went off hastily out of the garden-gate and down the lane.  But she would not stay where
she was; and edging through a slit in the garden-fence, walked away into the wood.  Just about
here the trees were large and wide apart, and there was no undergrowth, so that she could be
seen to some distance; a sylph-like, greenish-white creature, as toned by the sunlight and
leafage.  She heard a foot-fall crushing dead leaves behind her, and found herself reconnoitered
by Fitzpiers himself, approaching gay and fresh as the morning around them.

His remote gaze at her had been one of mild interest rather than of rapture.  But she looked
so lovely in the green world about her, her pink cheeks, her simple light dress, and the delicate
flexibility of her movement acquired such rarity from their wild-wood setting, that his eyes
kindled as he drew near.

"My darling, what is it?  Your father says you are in the pouts, and jealous, and I don't know
what.  Ha! ha! ha! as if there were any rival to you, except vegetable nature, in this home
of recluses! We know better."

"Jealous; oh no, it is not so," said she, gravely.  "That's a mistake of his and yours, sir.
I spoke to him so closely about the question of marriage with you that he did not apprehend
my state of mind."

"But there's something wrong--eh?" he asked, eying her narrowly, and bending to kiss her. 
She shrank away, and his purposed kiss miscarried.

"What is it?" he said, more seriously for this little defeat.

She made no answer beyond, "Mr. Fitzpiers, I have had no breakfast, I must go in."

"Come," he insisted, fixing his eyes upon her.  "Tell me at once, I say."

It was the greater strength against the smaller; but she was mastered less by his manner than
by her own sense of the unfairness of silence. "I looked out of the window," she said, with
hesitation.  "I'll tell you by-and-by.  I must go in-doors. I have had no breakfast."

By a sort of divination his conjecture went straight to the fact. "Nor I," said he, lightly.
"Indeed, I rose late to-day.  I have had a broken night, or rather morning.  A girl of the
village--I don't know her name--came and rang at my bell as soon as it was light--between four
and five, I should think it was--perfectly maddened with an aching tooth.  As no-body heard
her ring, she threw some gravel at my window, till at last I heard her and slipped on my dressing-gown
and went down. The poor thing begged me with tears in her eyes to take out her tormentor, if
I dragged her head off.  Down she sat and out it came--a lovely molar, not a speck upon it;
and off she went with it in her handkerchief, much contented, though it would have done good
work for her for fifty years to come."

It was all so plausible--so completely explained.  Knowing nothing of the incident in the wood
on old Midsummer-eve, Grace felt that her suspicions were unworthy and absurd, and with the
readiness of an honest heart she jumped at the opportunity of honoring his word.  At the moment
of her mental liberation the bushes about the garden had moved, and her father emerged into
the shady glade. "Well, I hope it is made up?" he said, cheerily.

"Oh yes," said Fitzpiers, with his eyes fixed on Grace, whose eyes were shyly bent downward.

"Now," said her father, "tell me, the pair of ye, that you still mean to take one another for
good and all; and on the strength o't you shall have another couple of hundred paid down. 
I swear it by the name."

Fitzpiers took her hand.  "We declare it, do we not, my dear Grace?" said he.

Relieved of her doubt, somewhat overawed, and ever anxious to please, she was disposed to settle
the matter; yet, womanlike, she would not relinquish her opportunity of asking a concession
of some sort.  "If our wedding can be at church, I say yes," she answered, in a measured voice.
"If not, I say no."

Fitzpiers was generous in his turn.  "It shall be so," he rejoined, gracefully.  "To holy church
we'll go, and much good may it do us."

They returned through the bushes indoors, Grace walking, full of thought between the other
two, somewhat comforted, both by Fitzpiers's ingenious explanation and by the sense that she
was not to be deprived of a religious ceremony.  "So let it be," she said to herself.  "Pray
God it is for the best."

From this hour there was no serious attempt at recalcitration on her part.  Fitzpiers kept
himself continually near her, dominating any rebellious impulse, and shaping her will into
passive concurrence with all his desires.  Apart from his lover-like anxiety to possess her,
the few golden hundreds of the timber-dealer, ready to hand, formed a warm background to Grace's
lovely face, and went some way to remove his uneasiness at the prospect of endangering his
professional and social chances by an alliance with the family of a simple countryman.

The interim closed up its perspective surely and silently. Whenever Grace had any doubts of
her position, the sense of contracting time was like a shortening chamber: at other moments
she was comparatively blithe.  Day after day waxed and waned; the one or two woodmen who sawed,
shaped, spokeshaved on her father's premises at this inactive season of the year, regularly
came and unlocked the doors in the morning, locked them in the evening, supped, leaned over
their garden-gates for a whiff of evening air, and to catch any last and farthest throb of
news from the outer world, which entered and expired at Little Hintock like the exhausted swell
of a wave in some innermost cavern of some innermost creek of an embayed sea; yet no news interfered
with the nuptial purpose at their neighbor's house.  The sappy green twig-tips of the season's
growth would not, she thought, be appreciably woodier on the day she became a wife, so near
was the time; the tints of the foliage would hardly have changed.  Everything was so much as
usual that no itinerant stranger would have supposed a woman's fate to be hanging in the balance
at that summer's decline.

But there were preparations, imaginable readily enough by those who had special knowledge.
In the remote and fashionable town of Sandbourne something was growing up under the hands of
several persons who had never seen Grace Melbury, never would see her, or care anything about
her at all, though their creation had such interesting relation to her life that it would enclose
her very heart at a moment when that heart would beat, if not with more emotional ardor, at
least with more emotional turbulence than at any previous time.

Why did Mrs. Dollery's van, instead of passing along at the end of the smaller village to Great
Hintock direct, turn one Saturday night into Little Hintock Lane, and never pull up till it
reached Mr. Melbury's gates?  The gilding shine of evening fell upon a large, flat box not
less than a yard square, and safely tied with cord, as it was handed out from under the tilt
with a great deal of care.  But it was not heavy for its size; Mrs. Dollery herself carried
it into the house. Tim Tangs, the hollow-turner, Bawtree, Suke Damson, and others, looked knowing,
and made remarks to each other as they watched its entrance. Melbury stood at the door of the
timber-shed in the attitude of a man to whom such an arrival was a trifling domestic detail
with which he did not condescend to be concerned.  Yet he well divined the contents of that
box, and was in truth all the while in a pleasant exaltation at the proof that thus far, at
any rate, no disappointment had supervened. While Mrs. Dollery remained--which was rather long,
from her sense of the importance of her errand--he went into the out-house; but as soon as
she had had her say, been paid, and had rumbled away, he entered the dwelling, to find there
what he knew he should find--his wife and daughter in a flutter of excitement over the wedding-gown,
just arrived from the leading dress-maker of Sandbourne watering-place aforesaid.

During these weeks Giles Winterborne was nowhere to be seen or heard of.  At the close of his
tenure in Hintock he had sold some of his furniture, packed up the rest--a few pieces endeared
by associations, or necessary to his occupation--in the house of a friendly neighbor, and gone
away.  People said that a certain laxity had crept into his life; that he had never gone near
a church latterly, and had been sometimes seen on Sundays with unblacked boots, lying on his
elbow under a tree, with a cynical gaze at surrounding objects.  He was likely to return to
Hintock when the cider-making season came round, his apparatus being stored there, and travel
with his mill and press from village to village.

The narrow interval that stood before the day diminished yet. There was in Grace's mind sometimes
a certain anticipative satisfaction, the satisfaction of feeling that she would be the heroine
of an hour; moreover, she was proud, as a cultivated woman, to be the wife of a cultivated
man.  It was an opportunity denied very frequently to young women in her position, nowadays
not a few; those in whom parental discovery of the value of education has implanted tastes
which parental circles fail to gratify.  But what an attenuation was this cold pride of the
dream of her youth, in which she had pictured herself walking in state towards the altar, flushed
by the purple light and bloom of her own passion, without a single misgiving as to the sealing
of the bond, and fervently receiving as her due

  "The homage of a thousand hearts; the fond, deep love of one."

Everything had been clear then, in imagination; now something was undefined.  She had little
carking anxieties; a curious fatefulness seemed to rule her, and she experienced a mournful
want of some one to confide in.

The day loomed so big and nigh that her prophetic ear could, in fancy, catch the noise of it,
hear the murmur of the villagers as she came out of church, imagine the jangle of the three
thin-toned Hintock bells. The dialogues seemed to grow louder, and the ding-ding-dong of those
three crazed bells more persistent.  She awoke: the morning had come.

Five hours later she was the wife of Fitzpiers.

CHAPTER XXV.

The chief hotel at Sherton-Abbas was an old stone-fronted inn with a yawning arch, under which
vehicles were driven by stooping coachmen to back premises of wonderful commodiousness.  The
windows to the street were mullioned into narrow lights, and only commanded a view of the opposite
houses; hence, perhaps, it arose that the best and most luxurious private sitting-room that
the inn could afford over-looked the nether parts of the establishment, where beyond the yard
were to be seen gardens and orchards, now bossed, nay incrusted, with scarlet and gold fruit,
stretching to infinite distance under a luminous lavender mist.  The time was early autumn,

    "When the fair apples, red as evening sky,
    Do bend the tree unto the fruitful ground,
     When juicy pears, and berries of black dye,
    Do dance in air, and call the eyes around."

The landscape confronting the window might, indeed, have been part of the identical stretch
of country which the youthful Chatterton had in his mind.

In this room sat she who had been the maiden Grace Melbury till the finger of fate touched
her and turned her to a wife.  It was two months after the wedding, and she was alone.  Fitzpiers
had walked out to see the abbey by the light of sunset, but she had been too fatigued to accompany
him.  They had reached the last stage of a long eight-weeks' tour, and were going on to Hintock
that night.

In the yard, between Grace and the orchards, there progressed a scene natural to the locality
at this time of the year.  An apple-mill and press had been erected on the spot, to which some
men were bringing fruit from divers points in mawn-baskets, while others were grinding them,
and others wringing down the pomace, whose sweet juice gushed forth into tubs and pails.  The
superintendent of these proceedings, to whom the others spoke as master, was a young yeoman
of prepossessing manner and aspect, whose form she recognized in a moment.  He had hung his
coat to a nail of the out-house wall, and wore his shirt-sleeves rolled up beyond his elbows,
to keep them unstained while he rammed the pomace into the bags of horse-hair.  Fragments of
apple-rind had alighted upon the brim of his hat--probably from the bursting of a bag--while
brown pips of the same fruit were sticking among the down upon his fine, round arms.

She realized in a moment how he had come there.  Down in the heart of the apple country nearly
every farmer kept up a cider-making apparatus and wring-house for his own use, building up
the pomace in great straw "cheeses," as they were called; but here, on the margin of Pomona's
plain, was a debatable land neither orchard nor sylvan exclusively, where the apple produce
was hardly sufficient to warrant each proprietor in keeping a mill of his own.  This was the
field of the travelling cider-maker. Le blame
the death of Captain Tonda.

- So that's how you say! So I am the most unhappy woman who treads
the world!

Alas, without having harmed anyone all fall on me!

- Do not cry, nor regret, girl. Although the cause of our misfortunes, his grace is innocent no
fault.

- How should I not mourn and grieve, if pursued after me unjustly,
made of stone scandal of women in this house, harass me with your
questions and nonsense, for auction has been you, it says I grew up,
and I reproach the misfortunes of you and her husband?

Is there more unhappiness than mine?

- When I told him my story, woven with that of his mercy, will be
convinced that I have a lot reason.

- But who are you?

- My name
is Maria de Regla, humble servant of his grace, Leonardo Gamboa child
slave.

- Ah!

Cecilia said standing up and hugging her interlocutor.

- Listen! said it with feeling. The child recognizes and embraces me as a child slave Leonardo not
the mother's milk as I am of his mercy.

- No, I embrace both reasons, especially since his coming is a bringer of salvation for me.

The
black crossed his arms and began to contemplate Cecilia face to face. From time to time murmured
in a low tone: See you! The same front! The same nose! The same mouth! The same eyes! Even the
dimple in his beard!

Yes, her hair, her body, her air, her own angel!

What!

His very image!

- Who? asked Cecilia.

- In my daughter Adela.

- Who is this girl?

- Milk My other daughter, sister, father and
mother of the child Leonardo.

- "So much I look like her?

That's what I had told some friends who know her view.

- And say that it seems. Not be more like twins. Could it be because the child why Leonardo is
so enamored of his mercy? But he sins and sin to want to worship as they want. If you would
like as friends or brothers, go, as a man and woman is a sin. Both are in mortal sin.

- Why did you say that? Cecilia asked, surprised.

In loving a man and a much woman, I do not know who has sinned.

- Yes, there, child, sometimes you have to sin tight.

On the one hand, he is white, but within Soon it will be of blue
blood, because his father is the Count of Casa Gamboa.

And he has a palace to live with that is to be his lawful wife. And
his mercy ... Sorry, girl, that is so clariosa.

His mercy is poor, has no drop of blue blood and a daughter ... of
the Creche.

You can not be left to marry his mercy.

- Everything is to be put on the head.

A good man he is and does what he wants.

And although no, I'm sure the word that has given me.

- You can not fulfill it, girl.

Undeceive, yet still can not fulfill.

- Why not?

- Why not.

In time you will know their mercy. That marriage is a dream, are not checked ...

- Then you are opposed. I do not understand why.

- I am not opposed, my child. Not me who is opposed, is another, that's nature are the laws divine
and human. It would be a sacrilege ... But what do I say? At least it is too late. Tell me,
girl, what's in your eyes?

- I have nothing in their eyes, "said Cecilia scrubbing innocently.

- Yes, I see something in them that is a bad sign. I think that has yellow eyeball. No doubt. These
circles, the pallor, the face distorted ... Poor thing! His mercy is sick.

- I sick!

No, no, she said a hurry.

- His mercy and Leonardo child is female.

- Do not understand what you said.

- Have you ever felt your mercy nausea? So as a desire to be provocative?

- Yes, several times. More often since I'm in this house.

I attribute that to the shocks and sorrows my unjust imprisonment.

- Tate. Some are the bulls. Did not I? The cause of the illness of his worship is another. I know,
the soothsayer. Do not know the girl I've been a nurse for many years? What am married? There
is no healing. None ... Poor girl! Innocent! Unhappy! In his mercy has made much damage that
face so beautiful that God has given. If your worship had been born ugly, perhaps does not
matter what happens now. Would be free and be happy. More ... which has no cure, is best forgotten.
Finally, tell the child Leonardo the status of your mercy and safety pin that rush to get
the girl in this damn house.

Leonardo Gamboa strongly affected the latest news that Cecilia brought
the slave.

Without loss of time, as he had intended it, he focused with his classmate and friend Mayor,
who had decreed the arbitrary order of imprisonment, to which he claimed those titles, along
with this circumstance. He also revealed the delicate state secret the girl. Spilled all over
the gold with both hands and had the ineffable satisfaction to see
their efforts crowned with success all the way over the last days
of the month April.

Cecilia went to his place, despite fierce opposition from his father. Led prison the house they
had rented in the Rue des Dames, by giving cook, servant trust and owner of Mary always rule. It
seemed there was not the happiest man on the face of the earth.

While all this was executed with total reserves of Don Candido, Leonardo
hid anything Dona Rosa.

From beginning to end kept informed of the steps being taken, as were given. And, sorry to
say, do not know who was more rejoicing in the outcome of the drama, if your child or the
mother. This raised an insurmountable barrier, she sincerely believed, between the girl and the reckless
claims of her husband.

Amid these scenes, displayed Leonardo skill and willpower without
example, by great care in fulfilling the conditions of the contract
held secret to her mother.

Attended to law classes regularly, and when it came time to graduate, visited one by one doctors
to be discussed, mainly to Don Diego de la Torre, who enjoyed very stiff reputation with graduates,
he went out to Fray Ambrosio Herrera, Secretary University, who secretly informed that instead
of the three tips of hard custom, intended to put three ounces of gold in each cartridge. That
paved the way for reception, and managed to stall the ordinance hood,
up to the chair of the lecture hall, get in the crown of the head
red biretta, delivering a speech unintelligible in Latin, and obtain
the degree of Bachelor of Laws "Nemiña dissentiente [60] April 12
1831.

Satisfied with this side its commitments, he still had time to take formal possession of palace
that his father had given him. Then, with the aim of monitoring numb of it, ran to give a "caradita"
to Isabel's paradise Alquízar, and see to conclude with it, if possible, the manner and time of marriage.

Found
it quite cold and discouraged. Repugnábale highly the idea of ​​witnessing for second time,
the horrific scenes of wit.

As a guest, it would lack the time together with desire, like love, because if failed to stop
loving the terrible punishments blacks there, by a fatal necessity of the institution, could hardly
promised that married were abolished. Leonardo And pray take these reasons for which mere scruples
nun friend, now they might be persuaded it would relieve a promise
that is no longer interested much his heart, turned to Havana without
trying to pave the unexpected inconvenience.

Had flown out with inconceivable rapidity. In late August was a beautiful Cecilia girl; event
that, far from happy with Leonardo, it seems that only made him feel the full weight of the grave
responsibility that had been thrown over in a moment of amorous rapture.

That not his wife, much less their equal. Could you submit it without blushing, that beautiful
as magu sun, anywhere?

He had not yet fallen so gentle slope of vice sambenito that would
make the gala.

Vanished, without a doubt, the enthusiasm with easy coveted possession
of the object was only contemptible in quality above.

When love took place shortly shame. After this was due repentance, and presented at a gallop,
much earlier than This was expected, called the cold storage conditions and moral laxity that
had tests the young Gamboa.

The first symptoms of change not long in discovering Cecilia with
pain came towards rush of jealousy to complicate the situation of
things.

After three or four months of marriage unlawful were less frequent and less prolonged visits
to Leonardo's house Calle de las Damas. What value than the height of gifts to the beloved,
who advanced to all tastes and whims, even if it was ever more cold and reserved with her,
but showed pride and joy for the child, if ever they failed to achieve even for a night trocar
the house of his own parents?

This explains the strange behavior of Leonardo with Cecilia, the biggest influence on him vigorously
pursued his mother.

Because it was a certainty that if the boy had fled with all the virtues at the early age of
22 years, fleeing the timid pigeon loft struck by lightning, was
no less true that warmed her heart still sweet filial marble.

Doña Rosa also had learned from those days true story of birth, baptism, parenting and fatherhood
of Cecilia Valdés, told Mary Rule now in order to obtain complete
forgiveness of their sins and some help for Dionisio, who was still
in close prison.

Terrified this lady of the abyss to which he had pushed his son,
he said with apparent calmness:

- I was thinking, Leonardite, it's
time to loosen up on the little boy like wild pears ... What do you
think?

- Jesus, Mom! shocked the young man replied.

It would be an atrocity.

- Yes, it is necessary, the mother said
in a resolute tone.

Now, to marry Elizabeth.

- This, too?

Isabella no longer loves me.

You have read his last letters. They do not speak love, speaks only Monji.

- Nonsense! Never mind. I'll fix the business in two Palotada. Things
have changed.

It should get married early on primogeniture, even not for any other purpose than ensuring
legitimate succession to the title. To marry Isabel, I say.

By letter of Don Tomas Don Candido Ilincheta, said Dona Rosa Isabel's hand for his son Leonardo,
heir presumptive County Gamboa House.

In response, the alleged bride, accompanied by her father, sister
and aunt came to his time Havana and was removed at the home of her
cousins, the Misses Gámez.

It was therefore postponed marriage for early November in the picturesque Church of the Angel,
because the most decent, if not closer to the congregation itself.

The first of three revelations Regular ran last Sunday in October, fairs past San Rafael.

There were those who communicate with Cecilia's new link next to Isabel
Ilincheta her lover.

We disclaim paint the tumult of passions aroused in the breast of the proud and vengeful mulatta.
Suffice it to say that the sheep, in fact, became a lioness.

At dusk on November 10 knocked on the door of an old friend Cecilia, who not seen since his
concubinage with Leonardo.

- Jose Dolores! she exclaimed, throwing her arms around his neck in
tears.

What good angel sent you to me?

- I come, "he said with grim countenance and terrible voice, because
it gave me the heart Celia could need.

- Jose Dolores!

José Dolores of my soul! That marriage should not be.

- No?

- No.

- Then tell me not to be Celia.

- No more off him in his arms and
walked outside.

Cecilia, a little, limp hair and the dress loose, ran to the door
and shouted back: Joseph!

José Dolores! To her, he does!

Useless warning. The musician had already turned the corner of Calle
de las Damas.

Numerous candles and candles burned on the altar of the church of
Santo Angel Custodio.

Some people were standing, leaning on the railing of the broad plateau
ending the two stone steps.

On the Street looks up a large group Compostela ladies and gentlemen whose carriages were down.
The couple put the foot on the last step, when a man came by the
other side, his hat pulled down over ears, crossed the plateau and
ran diagonally to Leonardo, an effort to win before this the south
side of the church, where he finally disappeared.

She took the boy on the left hand, gave a muffled cry, wanted to lean on the arm Elizabeth, rolled
and fell at his feet, splashing blood on the shiny white silk dress.

Brushing the arm at the scum, he became the knife right way the heart.

CONCLUSION

Far from appeasing Rosa convinced that Cecilia Valdés was the daughter
of his adulterous half-sister, husband and hence his unfortunate son,
that it seemed to turn it into anger divestment and the desire for
revenge.

Pursued, then, the girl with real fury, and it was not difficult
to make the convict as an accomplice in the murder of Leonardo, a
year of confinement in the hospital for Paula.

On these roads came to recognize and embrace daughter and mother, having recovered this trial,
as is often the insane, a few moments before his spirit left the
wretched human shell.

It makes Isabel Ilincheta, disillusioned would not find happiness
or quiet the soul in the society within which happens to be born,
retired to the convent of the nuns Teresas or Carmelites, and was
professed there after a year of novitiate.

Rosa married to Diego Metieses, strove to replace the older sister in the care of father and
aunt, going to dwell with them in the paradise of Alquízar.

Formed the criminal case for killing Dionisio Tonda, did not come
to fail but five years after the events recounted here.

The court sentenced him to ten and the popular chain Don Miguel Tacon
assigned him to the prison in Havana to the composition of streets.

FIN

GLOSSARY

A

includes: rustic leather footwear that covers the ground beef, fingers
and most of foot and secured with ropes or straps.

Agramonte field: instead of much confusion, where no one understands.

Water Marketplace: agualoja, houses, refreshing drink made with water,
sugar or honey, cinnamon, cloves and some other ingredient.

spying,
stalking.

perch, perch or put varal where falconry birds.

alcarraza:
porous clay pot, which seeps water evaporation cools the remaining
inside.

icing: white paste of sugar and starch which usually cover
several kinds of sweets and snack bars are made in various figurines.

pearls:
pearl of irregular shape and small communities, things like the pearls,
as dewdrops.

almo: nourishing, invigorating.

Yellow gold coin and especially ounce.

ambigú food, usually at night,
consisting of hot and cold dishes that are covers a time table.

eyelet:
metal ring shank nail or screw into a solid body.

Arrente: following the helmet.

forlorn: overworked.

embrasure: long, narrow opening in a wall to shoot her.

adz: woodworking
tool consisting of an iron steely and sharp, with wooden short handle.

B

Badulaque: informal foolish person.

Crossbow: a weapon for shooting
arrows and bolts.

sidewalk, street pavement.

lip: either from the
lips of horses and other animals.

bilorta: vilorta, small iron rings
were used in the axis of the carriages prevent the hub of the wheel
is out of place.

upside down: punishment of lashes applied to slaves
making them lie face down.

Speaker: round piece of straw that puts
defense around the wheel hubs car.

Muzzle: black straight out of
their country.

bronco: said of the voice and instruments that have
sound nasty and rough bushy rough.

ore: waste of anything.

C

rafter:
upper and lower cross rails that form the framework of the doors and
windows.

cap: hair bun or for which you need some filler or artificial,
which was used in the time and still today in several Spanish provinces.

Box:
drum.

cabochon: nail head shaped button that is used for upholstery
and decorating.

swap: barter for items of little value.

camuesa:
very foolish and ignorant man.

Cannon: Large pipe or water pipe.

caravel:
name used by the slaves to their colleagues or comrades who had come
from Africa in the same slave ship, whether men or women.

caradita:
caress, slap in the face.

caritate, to: causing envy or jealousy.

carranclán:
woolen cloth.

tasting: look, look.

Caudine, forks, passing one by:
submit the strongest.

Ciara: walk backwards, backwards.

cicerone,
who teaches and explains the curiosities of a place, building, etc..

citadel
called modern solar.

cochiherviti: hastily, in haste.

doublet: inside
of a person.

swing: balance, rocking chair.

Comptroller: official
royal honorific equivalent to what in Castilla called seer.

Thus the discussion ended, and the next day Fitzpiers went on his old rounds as usual.  But
it was easy for so super-subtle an eye as his to discern, or to think he discerned, that he
was no longer regarded as an extrinsic, unfathomed gentleman of limitless potentiality, scientific
and social; but as Mr. Melbury's compeer, and therefore in a degree only one of themselves.
The Hintock woodlandlers held with all the strength of inherited conviction to the aristocratic
principle, and as soon as they had discovered that Fitzpiers was one of the old Buckbury Fitzpierses
they had accorded to him for nothing a touching of hat-brims, promptness of service, and deference
of approach, which Melbury had to do without, though he paid for it over and over.  But now,
having proved a traitor to his own cause by this marriage, Fitzpiers was believed in no more
as a superior hedged by his own divinity; while as doctor he began to be rated no higher than
old Jones, whom they had so long despised.

His few patients seemed in his two months' absence to have dwindled considerably in number,
and no sooner had he returned than there came to him from the Board of Guardians a complaint
that a pauper had been neglected by his substitute.  In a fit of pride Fitzpiers resigned his
appointment as one of the surgeons to the union, which had been the nucleus of his practice here.

At the end of a fortnight he came in-doors one evening to Grace more briskly than usual.  "They
have written to me again about that practice in Budmouth that I once negotiated for," he said
to her.  "The premium asked is eight hundred pounds, and I think that between your father and
myself it ought to be raised.  Then we can get away from this place forever."

The question had been mooted between them before, and she was not unprepared to consider it.
They had not proceeded far with the discussion when a knock came to the door, and in a minute
Grammer ran up to say that a message had arrived from Hintock House requesting Dr. Fitzpiers
to attend there at once.  Mrs. Charmond had met with a slight accident through the overturning
of her carriage.

"This is something, anyhow," said Fitzpiers, rising with an interest which he could not have
defined.  "I have had a presentiment that this mysterious woman and I were to be better acquainted."

The latter words were murmured to himself alone.

"Good-night," said Grace, as soon as he was ready.  "I shall be asleep, probably, when you return."

"Good-night," he replied, inattentively, and went down-stairs.  It was the first time since
their marriage that he had left her without a kiss.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Winterborne's house had been pulled down.  On this account his face had been seen but fitfully
in Hintock; and he would probably have disappeared from the place altogether but for his slight
business connection with Melbury, on whose premises Giles kept his cider-making apparatus,
now that he had no place of his own to stow it in.  Coming here one evening on his way to a
hut beyond the wood where he now slept, he noticed that the familiar brown-thatched pinion
of his paternal roof had vanished from its site, and that the walls were levelled.  In present
circumstances he had a feeling for the spot that might have been called morbid, and when he
had supped in the hut aforesaid he made use of the spare hour before bedtime to return to Little
Hintock in the twilight and ramble over the patch of ground on which he had first seen the day.

He repeated this evening visit on several like occasions.  Even in the gloom he could trace
where the different rooms had stood; could mark the shape of the kitchen chimney-corner, in
which he had roasted apples and potatoes in his boyhood, cast his bullets, and burned his initials
on articles that did and did not belong to him.  The apple-trees still remained to show where
the garden had been, the oldest of them even now retaining the crippled slant to north-east
given them by the great November gale of 1824, which carried a brig bodily over the Chesil
Bank.  They were at present bent to still greater obliquity by the heaviness of their produce.
Apples bobbed against his head, and in the grass beneath he crunched scores of them as he walked.
There was nobody to gather them now.

It was on the evening under notice that, half sitting, half leaning against one of these inclined
trunks, Winterborne had become lost in his thoughts, as usual, till one little star after another
had taken up a position in the piece of sky which now confronted him where his walls and chimneys
had formerly raised their outlines.  The house had jutted awkwardly into the road, and the
opening caused by its absence was very distinct.

In the silence the trot of horses and the spin of carriage-wheels became audible; and the vehicle
soon shaped itself against the blank sky, bearing down upon him with the bend in the lane which
here occurred, and of which the house had been the cause.  He could discern the figure of a
woman high up on the driving-seat of a phaeton, a groom being just visible behind.  Presently
there was a slight scrape, then a scream.  Winterborne went across to the spot, and found the
phaeton half overturned, its driver sitting on the heap of rubbish which had once been his
dwelling, and the man seizing the horses' heads.  The equipage was Mrs. Charmond's, and the
unseated charioteer that lady herself.

To his inquiry if she were hurt she made some incoherent reply to the effect that she did not
know.  The damage in other respects was little or none: the phaeton was righted, Mrs. Charmond
placed in it, and the reins given to the servant.  It appeared that she had been deceived by
the removal of the house, imagining the gap caused by the demolition to be the opening of the
road, so that she turned in upon the ruins instead of at the bend a few yards farther on.

"Drive home--drive home!" cried the lady, impatiently; and they started on their way.  They
had not, however, gone many paces when, the air being still, Winterborne heard her say "Stop;
tell that man to call the doctor--Mr. Fitzpiers--and send him on to the House.  I find I am
hurt more seriously than I thought."

Winterborne took the message from the groom and proceeded to the doctor's at once.  Having
delivered it, he stepped back into the darkness, and waited till he had seen Fitzpiers leave
the door. He stood for a few minutes looking at the window which by its light revealed the
room where Grace was sitting, and went away under the gloomy trees.

Fitzpiers duly arrived at Hintock House, whose doors he now saw open for the first time.  Contrary
to his expectation there was visible no sign of that confusion or alarm which a serious accident
to the mistress of the abode would have occasioned.  He was shown into a room at the top of
the staircase, cosily and femininely draped, where, by the light of the shaded lamp, he saw
a woman of full round figure reclining upon a couch in such a position as not to disturb a
pile of magnificent hair on the crown of her head.  A deep purple dressing-gown formed an admirable
foil to the peculiarly rich brown of her hair-plaits; her left arm, which was naked nearly
up to the shoulder, was thrown upward, and between the fingers of her right hand she held a
cigarette, while she idly breathed from her plump lips a thin stream of smoke towards the ceiling.

The doctor's first feeling was a sense of his exaggerated prevision in having brought appliances
for a serious case; the next, something more curious.  While the scene and the moment were
new to him and unanticipated, the sentiment and essence of the moment were indescribably familiar.
What could be the cause of it? Probably a dream.

Mrs. Charmond did not move more than to raise her eyes to him, and he came and stood by her.
She glanced up at his face across her brows and forehead, and then he observed a blush creep
slowly over her decidedly handsome cheeks.  Her eyes, which had lingered upon him with an inquiring,
conscious expression, were hastily withdrawn, and she mechanically applied the cigarette again
to her lips.

For a moment he forgot his errand, till suddenly arousing himself he addressed her, formally
condoled with her, and made the usual professional inquiries about what had happened to her,
and where she was hurt.

"That's what I want you to tell me," she murmured, in tones of indefinable reserve.  "I quite
believe in you, for I know you are very accomplished, because you study so hard."

"I'll do my best to justify your good opinion," said the young man, bowing.  "And none the
less that I am happy to find the accident has not been serious."

"I am very much shaken," she said.

"Oh yes," he replied; and completed his examination, which convinced him that there was really
nothing the matter with her, and more than ever puzzled him as to why he had been fetched,
since she did not appear to be a timid woman.  "You must rest a while, and I'll send something,"
he said.

"Oh, I forgot," she returned.  "Look here." And she showed him a little scrape on her arm--the
full round arm that was exposed. "Put some court-plaster on that, please."

He obeyed.  "And now," she said, "before you go I want to put a question to you.  Sit round
there in front of me, on that low chair, and bring the candles, or one, to the little table.
Do you smoke? Yes? That's right--I am learning.  Take one of these; and here's a light." She
threw a matchbox across.

Fitzpiers caught it, and having lit up, regarded her from his new position, which, with the
shifting of the candles, for the first time afforded him a full view of her face.  "How many
years have passed since first we met!" she resumed, in a voice which she mainly endeavored
to maintain at its former pitch of composure, and eying him with daring bashfulness.

"WE met, do you say?"

She nodded.  "I saw you recently at an hotel in London, when you were passing through, I suppose,
with your bride, and I recognized you as one I had met in my girlhood.  Do you remember, when
you were studying at Heidelberg, an English family that was staying there, who used to walk--"

"And the young lady who wore a long tail of rare-colored hair--ah, I see it before my eyes!--who
lost her gloves on the Great Terrace--who was going back in the dusk to find them--to whom
I said, 'I'll go for them,' and you said, 'Oh, they are not worth coming all the way up again
for.' I DO remember, and how very long we stayed talking there! I went next morning while the
dew was on the grass: there they lay--the little fingers sticking out damp and thin.  I see
them now! I picked them up, and then--"

"Well?"

"I kissed them," he rejoined, rather shamefacedly.

"But you had hardly ever seen me except in the dusk?"

"Never mind.  I was young then, and I kissed them.  I wondered how I could make the most of
my trouvaille, and decided that I would call at your hotel with them that afternoon.  It rained,
and I waited till next day.  I called, and you were gone."

"Yes," answered she, with dry melancholy.  "My mother, knowing my disposition, said she had
no wish for such a chit as me to go falling in love with an impecunious student, and spirited
me away to Baden.  As it is all over and past I'll tell you one thing: I should have sent you
a line passing warm had I known your name. That name I never knew till my maid said, as you
passed up the hotel stairs a month ago, 'There's Dr. Fitzpiers.'"

"Good Heaven!" said Fitzpiers, musingly.  "How the time comes back to me!  The evening, the
morning, the dew, the spot.  When I found that you really were gone it was as if a cold iron
had been passed down my back.  I went up to where you had stood when I last saw you--I flung
myself on the grass, and--being not much more than a boy--my eyes were literally blinded with
tears.  Nameless, unknown to me as you were, I couldn't forget your voice."

"For how long?"

"Oh--ever so long.  Days and days."

"Days and days! ONLY days and days? Oh, the heart of a man! Days and days!"

"But, my dear madam, I had not known you more than a day or two. It was not a full-blown love--it
was the merest bud--red, fresh, vivid, but small.  It was a colossal passion in posse, a giant
in embryo.  It never matured."

"So much the better, perhaps."

"Perhaps.  But see how powerless is the human will against predestination.  We were prevented
meeting; we have met.  One feature of the case remains the same amid many changes.  You are
still rich, and I am still poor.  Better than that, you have (judging by your last remark)
outgrown the foolish, impulsive passions of your early girl-hood.  I have not outgrown mine."

"I beg your pardon," said she, with vibrations of strong feeling in her words.  "I have been
placed in a position which hinders such outgrowings.  Besides, I don't believe that the genuine
subjects of emotion do outgrow them; I believe that the older such people get the worse they
are.  Possibly at ninety or a hundred they may feel they are cured; but a mere threescore and
ten won't do it--at least for me."

He gazed at her in undisguised admiration.  Here was a soul of souls!

"Mrs. Charmond, you speak truly," he exclaimed.  "But you speak sadly as well.  Why is that?"

"I always am sad when I come here," she said, dropping to a low tone with a sense of having
been too demonstrative.

"Then may I inquire why you came?"

"A man brought me.  Women are always carried about like corks upon the waves of masculine desires....I
hope I have not alarmed you; but Hintock has the curious effect of bottling up the emotions
till one can no longer hold them; I am often obliged to fly away and discharge my sentiments
somewhere, or I should die outright."

"There is very good society in the county for those who have the privilege of entering it."

"Perhaps so.  But the misery of remote country life is that your neighbors have no toleration
for difference of opinion and habit. My neighbors think I am an atheist, except those who think
I am a Roman Catholic; and when I speak disrespectfully of the weather or the crops they think
I am a blasphemer."

She broke into a low musical laugh at the idea.

"You don't wish me to stay any longer?" he inquired, when he found that she remained musing.

"No--I think not."

"Then tell me that I am to be gone."

"Why? Cannot you go without?"

"I may consult my own feelings only, if left to myself."

"Well, if you do, what then? Do you suppose you'll be in my way?"

"I feared it might be so."

"Then fear no more.  But good-night.  Come to-morrow and see if I am going on right.  This
renewal of acquaintance touches me.  I have already a friendship for you."

"If it depends upon myself it shall last forever."

"My best hopes that it may.  Good-by." And thus, all together, seeing the big market to give them to land that
he knows to perpetually to each of them, together and with one voice gave him great thanks,
and entitled Intipchuri calling, saying "Son of the Sun."

And then there Inca Yupanqui ordered that everyone be some room to do such lands were painted, where,
as there were, gave and gave to the said lands, giving to each paresció land that it was enough.
And this fact, he charged that those three gentlemen his friends were to distribute to the all
of the city, or ANSI as he had given the and marked, and this fact, Volvo in front of them
all. And thus, the lords were and gave and gave out the land, and they cast them to the possessions
of those who craves them the said grant was made by the Inca Yupanqui. [Did you send?] Messrs.
caciques there were, to fetch him some account each Indian had him there, and cacique then
they brought him by Quip, says account, the sum of the Indians had, and known by the Inca Indians
had Yupanqui, ordered [38] Messrs. then distributing them houses, and so he was done. And then
one day he ordered that each of Cuzco, as he had fitted the fate of the land to the dressing
saliesen and repair and make their taps and showers, all of which were repaired and made of
hewn stone, because was the building in fact so, that would last perpetually, and bid them verifications
their boundaries and landmarks high, so made, never be lost, under which markers and each of them
was put certain amount of carbon, saying that if at any fall time is the landmark, which for the
carbon held on it would know the boundaries of such soils. And it provided, Inca Yupanqui was
a few days, while in the dressing land order was given, rejoiced and feasting seeing everyone
worked and dressed the part that he had fitted, and which via that with some work I did, gave
him help.

And as he saw that the building and repair of such land was long and went according to the objected
that such were doing, and that it was building that he could not finish without [39] aid sent
The lords and chieftains who were there came together in his house some day, and were then
ANSI well together as he commanded, and being there in his house, told them that there was great
need in the city of Cuzco had deposits of all meals, yearning for maize and chili and frijoles é chochos,
and chicha and quinoa, and dried meats, é proveimientos and all other cured foods they have, and
that what had need of their lands, sent for. And then the lords chiefs said they were pleased
to send you all will bring that commanded that the city of Cuzco were some dried apricots in
the company of the Indians who craves they invest, so that they know their land to those who
were there that was his will that such proveimiento hiciesen to the city of Cuzco, because it
was the first they were doing, and they very much desired to make such a service to the city
of Cuzco and his Lord Inca Yupanqui.


"Oh--you hurt me!" she exclaimed one day.

He was peeling off the bit of plaster on her arm, under which the scrape had turned the color
of an unripe blackberry previous to vanishing altogether.  "Wait a moment, then--I'll damp
it," said Fitzpiers.  He put his lips to the place and kept them there till the plaster came
off easily.  "It was at your request I put it on," said he.

"I know it," she replied.  "Is that blue vein still in my temple that used to show there? 
The scar must be just upon it.  If the cut had been a little deeper it would have spilt my
hot blood indeed!" Fitzpiers examined so closely that his breath touched her tenderly, at which
their eyes rose to an encounter--hers showing themselves as deep and mysterious as interstellar
space.  She turned her face away suddenly.  "Ah! none of that! none of that--I cannot coquet
with you!" she cried.  "Don't suppose I consent to for one moment.  Our poor, brief, youthful
hour of love-making was too long ago to bear continuing now.  It is as well that we should
understand each other on that point before we go further."

"Coquet! Nor I with you.  As it was when I found the historic gloves, so it is now.  I might
have been and may be foolish; but I am no trifler.  I naturally cannot forget that little space
in which I flitted across the field of your vision in those days of the past, and the recollection
opens up all sorts of imaginings."

"Suppose my mother had not taken me away?" she murmured, her dreamy eyes resting on the swaying
tip of a distant tree.

"I should have seen you again."

"And then?"

"Then the fire would have burned higher and higher.  What would have immediately followed I
know not; but sorrow and sickness of heart at last."

"Why?"

"Well--that's the end of all love, according to Nature's law.  I can give no other reason."

"Oh, don't speak like that," she exclaimed.  "Since we are only picturing the possibilities
of that time, don't, for pity's sake, spoil the picture." Her voice sank almost to a whisper
as she added, with an incipient pout upon her full lips, "Let me think at least that if you
had really loved me at all seriously, you would have loved me for ever and ever!"

"You are right--think it with all your heart," said he.  "It is a pleasant thought, and costs
nothing."

She weighed that remark in silence a while.  "Did you ever hear anything of me from then till
now?" she inquired.

"Not a word."

"So much the better.  I had to fight the battle of life as well as you. I may tell you about
it some day.  But don't ever ask me to do it, and particularly do not press me to tell you now."

Thus the two or three days that they had spent in tender acquaintance on the romantic slopes
above the Neckar were stretched out in retrospect to the length and importance of years; made
to form a canvas for infinite fancies, idle dreams, luxurious melancholies, and sweet, alluring
assertions which could neither be proved nor disproved.  Grace was never mentioned between
them, but a rumor of his proposed domestic changes somehow reached her ears.

"Doctor, you are going away," she exclaimed, confronting him with accusatory reproach in her
large dark eyes no less than in her rich cooing voice.  "Oh yes, you are," she went on, springing
to her feet with an air which might almost have been called passionate.  "It is no use denying
it.  You have bought a practice at Budmouth.  I don't blame you.  Nobody can live at Hintock--least
of all a professional man who wants to keep abreast of recent discovery.  And there is nobody
here to induce such a one to stay for other reasons.  That's right, that's right--go away!"

"But no, I have not actually bought the practice as yet, though I am indeed in treaty for it.
And, my dear friend, if I continue to feel about the business as I feel at this moment--perhaps
I may conclude never to go at all."

"But you hate Hintock, and everybody and everything in it that you don't mean to take away
with you?"

Fitzpiers contradicted this idea in his most vibratory tones, and she lapsed into the frivolous
archness under which she hid passions of no mean strength--strange, smouldering, erratic passions,
kept down like a stifled conflagration, but bursting out now here, now there--the only certain
element in their direction being its unexpectedness.  If one word could have expressed her
it would have been Inconsequence.  She was a woman of perversities, delighting in frequent
contrasts.  She liked mystery, in her life, in her love, in her history.  To be fair to her,
there was nothing in the latter which she had any great reason to be ashamed of, and many things
of which she might have been proud; but it had never been fathomed by the honest minds of Hintock,
and she rarely volunteered her experiences.  As for her capricious nature, the people on her
estates grew accustomed to it, and with that marvellous subtlety of contrivance in steering
round odd tempers, that is found in sons of the soil and dependants generally, they managed
to get along under her government rather better than they would have done beneath a more equable
rule.

Now, with regard to the doctor's notion of leaving Hintock, he had advanced further towards
completing the purchase of the Budmouth surgeon's good-will than he had admitted to Mrs. Charmond.
The whole matter hung upon what he might do in the ensuing twenty-four hours. The evening after
leaving her he went out into the lane, and walked and pondered between the high hedges, now
greenish-white with wild clematis--here called "old-man's beard," from its aspect later in
the year.

The letter of acceptance was to be written that night, after which his departure from Hintock
would be irrevocable.  But could he go away, remembering what had just passed? The trees, the
hills, the leaves, the grass--each had been endowed and quickened with a subtle charm since
he had discovered the person and history, and, above all, mood of their owner.  There was every
temporal reason for leaving; it would be entering again into a world which he had only quitted
in a passion for isolation, induced by a fit of Achillean moodiness after an imagined slight.
His wife herself saw the awkwardness of their position here, and cheerfully welcomed the purposed
change, towards which every step had been taken but the last.  But could he find it in his
heart--as he found it clearly enough in his conscience--to go away?

He drew a troubled breath, and went in-doors.  Here he rapidly penned a letter, wherein he
withdrew once for all from the treaty for the Budmouth practice.  As the postman had already
left Little Hintock for that night, he sent one of Melbury's men to intercept a mail-cart on
another turnpike-road, and so got the letter off.

The man returned, met Fitzpiers in the lane, and told him the thing was done.  Fitzpiers went
back to his house musing.  Why had he carried out this impulse--taken such wild trouble to
effect a probable injury to his own and his young wife's prospects? His motive was fantastic,
glowing, shapeless as the fiery scenery about the western sky.  Mrs. Charmond could overtly
be nothing more to him than a patient now, and to his wife, at the outside, a patron.  In the
unattached bachelor days of his first sojourning here how highly proper an emotional reason
for lingering on would have appeared to troublesome dubiousness. Matrimonial ambition is such
an honorable thing.

"My father has told me that you have sent off one of the men with a late letter to Budmouth,"
cried Grace, coming out vivaciously to meet him under the declining light of the sky, wherein
hung, solitary, the folding star.  "I said at once that you had finally agreed to pay the premium
they ask, and that the tedious question had been settled.  When do we go, Edgar?"

"I have altered my mind," said he.  "They want too much--seven hundred and fifty is too large
a sum--and in short, I have declined to go further.  We must wait for another opportunity.
I fear I am not a good business-man." He spoke the last words with a momentary faltering at
the great foolishness of his act; for, as he looked in her fair and honorable face, his heart
reproached him for what he had done.

Her manner that evening showed her disappointment.  Personally she liked the home of her childhood
much, and she was not ambitious. But her husband had seemed so dissatisfied with the circumstances
hereabout since their marriage that she had sincerely hoped to go for his sake.

It was two or three days before he visited Mrs. Charmond again. 

The tranquility of the old firm contagious to feel, he was able to defend all bread for their
children.

The old man, with so much solemnity as if it were a relic, took from behind the door gem house:
a piston gun that looked like a powerhouse, whose stock touched mothlike
devotedly.

The would charge him, he would understand better that friend. The shaking hands are rejuvenated.
There is powder! Quite a handful. A rope of straw pulled the plugs. Now serving coaching inn, five
or six Zorreras bulk pellets, shrapnel fine, and finally a taco well
beaten.

If the gun does not burst with indigestion that death would be mercy of God.

That night his wife said he felt that he expected turn to water, and the whole family believed
him going to bed early.

When he left, leaving it closed the cabin, he saw the starlight, under the fig tree the strong
old man engaged in putting the piston to a friend.

I would feel the last lesson, so that no Erras the coup. While pointing to the mouth of oven
and keep calm. When you bow down looking for the cat inside ... Fire! Was so simple that a
child could do it.

Sense, teacher's advice, he lay down between two beds of geraniums in the shade of the hut. The heavy
gun rested on the fence rods pointing straight at the mouth of the oven. I could not miss the
shot. Serenity and give the trigger in time. Farewell, my boy! To him liked those things, but
I had grandchildren, and also arranges these matters better one.

He walked away the old cautiously, like a man accustomed to haunt
the garden, waiting for a enemy in each lane.

Thought it was sat alone in the world, across the vast plain, shaken by the breeze, there was
nothing living that he and those who were to arrive. I hope not to come! Sounded the barrel
of the gun to shake of the band of reeds.

It was cold, it was fear. What old would say if you were there? His feet touched the shack,
and thinking that after that Pepeta mud wall and the little ones slept, no other defense than
their arms, and the they wanted to rob the poor man was fierce again.

Trilling space, as if far, far away, speaking from on high the voice
of a cantor.

Was Miguelete bell. Nine.

Could hear the screeching of a car rolling down a distant road. Barking dogs, howling fever transmitting
their poultry in pens, and rac-rac of frogs in the nearby canal interrupted by the splashes of frogs
and rats leaping from the edge of the reeds.

Sense to have the hours they were playing in the Miguelete. Was the only thing that made him
leave drowsiness and torpor in which he plunged the stillness of
waiting.

Eleven! Do not come yet? Would you have played God in the heart?

The frogs suddenly silent. Advanced by both dark path that sense we two dogs seemed enormous.
They stood: they were men who were advancing curved, almost knees.

- You are there - he murmured, and his jaw trembled.

The two men volvíanse everywhere, as if fearing a surprise.

They went to the bluff, by registering: then drew near the door of the hut, sticking the ear
to the keyhole, and in these maneuvers twice went close to sense, without that he could know
them. Iban wrapped in blankets, by low which poked shotguns.

This increased the value of sense. Are the same who killed Gafarró. Be killed to save life.

And
went into the oven. One of them leaned forward, putting his hands
in the mouth and placing pointed to the gun.

Magnificent shot. But what about the one that was free?

Poor sense to start to feel the pangs of fear felt in the forehead
with a cold sweat.

Killing one, was disarmed before the other.

If you let them go, finding nothing, take revenge burning his hut.

But that was stalking tired of the awkwardness of his companion and
went to help the looking for.

The two formed a dark mass obstructing the mouth of the oven.

This was the occasion.

Alma, Sento! Squeeze the trigger!

The thunder shook the entire garden, raising a storm of screams and barks. Sento saw an array of
sparks, burns to the face felt, the shotgun was and shook hands to
be convinced that they were whole.

Surely, the friend had burst.

He saw nothing in the oven would have fled, and when he would also escape, the door opened of
the cabin and went Pepeta in petticoats, with a candle. Had aroused the blunderbuss and driven
out by fear, fear for her husband who was away from home.

The red light of the lamp, with its haggard movements, reached the
mouth of the oven.

There were two men on the ground, one over another, crossed, confused, forming a single body,
as if an invisible nail unite them around the waist, soldiers with blood.

He had not missed the mark. The coup of the old gun had been twofold.

And when we feel and Pepeta, with frightened curiosity, lit the bodies
to see their sides, fell with exclamations of amazement.

Batiste was the uncle, the mayor, sheriff and Sigrid.

The garden was without authority, but quiet.

At sea

At two o'clock a knock at the door of the hut.

- Antonio! Antonio!

And Antonio jumped out of bed. It was his friend, fishing partner, warned him to be, to sea.

He had slept little that night. At eleven o'clock still chatting with Rufina, his poor wife, who
churned restlessly in bed talking business. They could not go worse. What a summer! In the former,
the tuna in the Mediterranean had run endless flocks. The day least two or three hundred were killed
arrobas, the money flowed like a God bless you and those like Antonio,
kept good conduct and made their nest egg, emancipated themselves
from the condition of simple sailors, buying a boat for fishing own.

The little harbor was full. A veritable fleet was occupied every night, not just space to move,
but with increasing lack boats had been fishing.

The networks will often drew algae or fish, trash fish from which
melts in the pan.

The tuna this year had taken another path, and no one could lift
one on his boat.

Rufina was appalled by this situation. There was no money at home, were in the oven and the
store, and Mr. Thomas, a retired master, owner of the people for
their beans, they were threatened continuously if not delivered some
of the fifty dollars with interest that had lent them for the termination
of that boat so slender and so sailer that consumed all their savings.

Antonio, as he dressed, woke up her son, a boy of nine years with
him in fishing and did the work of a man.

- See if you have more
luck today - the woman murmured from the bed -.

In the kitchen you will find the cot of the provisions ... Yesterday
did not want to confide in the store.

Oh, Lord!

And what trade as dog!

- Shut up, woman, bad is the sea, but God
will provide.

Just yesterday saw some a tuna that is loose, an old man who weighs
an estimated more than thirty arrobas.

Imagine if cogiéramos ... At least sixty dollars.

And the fisherman just fixed thinking about that dead fish, a lonely, separated from his herd,
returned by force of habit to the same waters last year.

Anton was already standing and ready to go with the severity and satisfaction is gained bread on the
age at which others play, to shoulder the provisions carrycot and
a hand the tank of the Rovelo, the favorite fish for tuna, the best
bait to attract them.

Father and son left the cabin and followed the beach to the fishing
pier.

The friend was waiting in the boat preparing to sail.

The fleet shifted in the darkness, waving his fence poles. They ran over it the black silhouettes of the
crew, broke the silence the sound of sticks falling on deck, the
creaking of the pulleys and ropes, and candles in the dark desplegábanse
like huge sheets.

The people near the water extended to its straight streets, bordered
with white houses where were housed for a while holidaymakers, families
from all those inside looking the sea.

Near the pier, an old house showing its windows and fired furnaces,
tracing trails of light on the restless waters.

It was the Casino. Antonio threw at him a look of hatred. How outdated
these people!

They would be risking the money ... If you had to get up early to make a living!

- Iza! Iza! That go far ahead.

The gossip and Antonyms pulled the strings, and slowly traced the
lateen sail, shivering to be bent by the wind.

The first boat crept softly on the calm surface of the bay, then rippled the water and began
to nod, were pointed out, in the open sea.

In front, the dark infinity, in which the stars twinkled, and everywhere
on black sea, boats and more boats as they went sliding on sharp ghosts
waves.

The friend looked at the skyline.

- Antonio, change the wind.

- I noticed.

- We'll have rough seas.

- I know, but in!

Let's get away from all these, which sweep the sea.

And the boat, instead of going after the other, which followed the
coast, continued to bow to sea.

Dawned. The sun, which cut huge red wafer, on the sea drew a triangle
fire and boiling water as if it reflected a fire.

Antonio grasped the helm, the mate stood by the mast and the little boy in the head scanning
the sea. The stern and gunwales of threads hanging hair dragged their baits in water. From time
to time and pull up a fish, which turned and shone like tin animated. But they were tiny pieces
... nothing.

And so the hours passed, the boat always on, as soon as lying down on the waves jumping up to
show their red bellies.

It was hot, and Anton ran down the hatch to drink the water barrel stuck in the narrow cove.

At
ten had lost sight of land, only saw the stern of the far from other
boats sails as white fish fins.

- But Antonio! - Said the friend -.

Are we going to Oran? When fishing does not occur, Hence it makes no deeper.

Antonio turned and started running the boat drifts, but to no land.

-
Today - said happily - take a bite.

My friend, comes the bassinet. And will be presented fishing whenever she wants.

For each a great crust and a raw onion, pounded his fists on the side.

The wind blew hard and the boat bobbing on the waves roughly long
and deep ripple.

- Pae! - Antonico shouted from the bow - a big fish,
big mu!

... A tuna!

They rolled over the stern onions and bread, and the two men asomáronse to the side.

Yes, it was a tuna, but huge, potbellied, powerful, almost dragging his black flower water
Velvet back, perhaps the lone spoke both fishermen.

Powerful fleet, but with a slight contraction of his strong tail,
moved from side to side of the boat and soon out of sight and reappeared
instantly.

Antonio flushed with emotion, and hastily threw Sea rig with a large
hook as a finger.

The waters are muddied and the boat was moved, as if someone with
colossal force Pulling stopping it in its place and trying to make
it capsize.

The deck was swaying as if they flee from under the feet of the crew, and the mast creaked pulse
of the fans candle. But suddenly the barrier gave way and the boat,
leaping, he resumed his march.

The rig, before rigid and tight, hung loose and fainted.

They pulled him and surfaced the hook, but broken, split in half, despite its size.

The friend shook his head sadly.

- Antonio, the animal can more than
us.

Let him go, and give thanks because he has broken the hook.

For a little more going in the background.

- Leave it? - Shouted the pattern -. A demon!

Do you know how much is this piece? It is not time for scruples or fears. He! He!

And by turning the boat returned to the sea where the encounter had taken place.

He put a new hook, a great hook, which skewered several Rovelo, and
without releasing the Helm took a sharp hook.

Light blow was to let go to that stupid and chunky beast as put at your fingertips!

The rig hanging from the stern almost straight.

The boat shuddered again, this time a terribly.

The tuna was well grasped and pulled the hook solid, stopping the
boat, making dancing wildly on the waves.

The water seemed to boil, rose to the surface foam and bubbles in
muddy swirl, which if depth development of a gigantic struggle, and
suddenly the boat, and seized by hidden hands, lay down, filling the
water to half cover.

Flip That broke down to the crew. Antonio, releasing the helm, was almost in the waves; but
heard a crack and the boat regained its normal position. He had broken the tackle, and the same
moment came the tuna with the side, almost at the water, raising
enormous foams with its powerful tail.

Ah, you thief! We finally put a shot! And anger, as if it were an implacable enemy, Antonio threw
several times with the gaff, sinking iron in that clammy skin.

The water is stained with blood and the animal sank a red swirl.

Antonio breathed at last. Good had escaped: all lasted a few seconds, but a little more, and
had gone to the bottom.

He looked at the wet deck and saw the mast my friend, grabbed him,
pale, but unalterable peace.

- I thought we were choking, Antonio.

So I swallowed water! Fucking animal! But good shots you've stirred. She will not take to stay
afloat.

- And the boy?

This is the father asked anxiously, anxiously, as if afraid the answer.

I

was not on deck. Antonio slid down the hatch, expecting to find in the Creek. It sank in water up
to the knee: the sea had flooded. But who thought this? He fumbled in the small, dark space,
without finding more than the barrel of water and gear parts.

He returned to the deck like a madman.

- The boy! The boy! ... My Anton!

The friend grimaced ruefully. Would not they were close to going overboard? Reckless by a blow,
he would have gone to the bottom like a bullet. But mate, even thought all this, said nothing.

Far
to the site where the boat had been close to capsizing, a black object
floating on the water.

- There he is!

And the father jumped into the water, swimming vigorously, while the companion slackened sail.

He
swam and swam, but its forces left him convinced that the object
was a rowing a wreck of his boat.

When the waves lifted up, pulled the body out to see farther.

Water everywhere.

Over the sea were just him, the boat approached and a black curve that had just emerged and horribly
contracted on a large bloodstain.

The tuna was dead ... Valiente thing he cared! The life of his only son, of Anton in exchange
of that beast! God! Was this way of earning a living?

He swam more than an hour, believing that each friction body of his son would arise under his legs,
imagining that the shadows of the waves were the child's body floating
between two stools.

There had been, there would have died with his son. The friend had to catch it and put in the
boat like a rebellious child.

- What we do, Anthony?

He did not answer.

- Do not take it well, man. Are things in life. The dead boy that killed all our relatives,
where we die. All a matter of sooner or later ... But now, what we are, to think that we are poor.

And
preparing two nooses tuna seized the body and took him to tow the
boat with blood staining the foam of the wake.

The wind favored them, but the boat was flooded, was sailing badly, and the two men, sailors Above
all, forget the disaster, and the scoops in hand, worshiped the inside
the creek, throwing shovels of water into the sea.

So the hours passed.

That tough task brutalized Antonio, prevented him from thinking, but tears were rolling their
eyes and more tears, which, mixing with water from the creek, fell in the sea over the grave
of the child.

The boat was sailing with increasing speed, feeling emptied their bowels.

The small port was in sight, with its masses of white houses by the golden afternoon sun.
The sight of land awoke in pain and Antonio numb horror.

- What
will my wife? What will my Rufina? - Groaned the unhappy.

And all
men trembling as energetic and daring, which at home are slaves of
the family.

Glided over the sea like a caress cheerful rhythm of
waltz. The land breeze greeted the boat with live and lively melodies.
It was the music played on the promenade, opposite the Casino. Below
the flattened palm parade, like beads on a string of colors, the umbrellas
of silk, straw hats, clear and colorful costumes of all people summer.

The
children, dressed in white and pink, leaping and running after their
toys, or were gay Outcry as color wheels turning.

In the spring thronged
the office: his eyes, accustomed to the vastness of the sea, had recognized
what was towing the boat. But Anthony only looked at the end of the
pier, a tall, bald and blackened, standing on a rock, whose skirts
swirled the wind.

They arrived at the pier. What cheer! Everyone
wanted to see up close the huge animal. Fishermen, from their boats,
threw envious glances, the rascals, nude-colored brick echábanse water
to touch the huge tail.

Rufina was opened through the crowd, reaching
her husband, who with his head down and stupid expression I heard
the congratulations of friends.

- And the boy? Where's the boy?

The
poor man still more his head down. The sunk between his shoulders,
as if to make disappear, refusing to hear, not see anything.

- But
Where is Anton?

And Rufina, with shining eyes, as if to devour her
husband, she held on to the front, rudely shaking that big man. But
soon release him, and lifting the arms, burst into terrible scream.

-
Oh, Lord ... He is dead! My Anton has drowned! Is in the sea!

- Yes,
women - the husband slowly said awkwardly, mumbling, as if you drown
the tears -. We are very unfortunate. The boy is dead, is where his
grandfather, where I will be any day. Eat sea and the sea has to swallow
... What a relief! Not everyone is born for bishops.

But his wife
did not hear him. Was on the ground, shaken by a nervous breakdown,
and rolled kicking, showing her thin and roasted animal nakedness
of work, while pulling by the hair, scratching his face.

- My son!
... My Anton! ...

The neighboring district of fishermen flocked to
it. They knew what it meant: nearly all had gone through the same
perils. They lifted her up, holding it with his powerful arms, and
marched towards his house.

Some fishermen took a glass of wine to
Antonio, who never ceased to mourn. Meanwhile, compadre, dominated
by the brutal selfishness of life, with buyers haggled fiercely fish
that wanted to purchase a beautiful piece.

The afternoon. The waters,
waving gently, taking gold reflections.

At intervals sounded farther
and farther away the desperate cry of the poor woman, disheveled and
crazy, jostled her friends home.

- Anton! My son!

And under the
palm trees were still parading the colorful costumes, happy, smiling
faces, a world that had not felt the misfortune to spend with him,
who had launched a look at the drama of poverty, and the elegant waltz,
rhythmic and voluptuous, anthem cheerful madness, harmonious glided
over the water, stroking his breath the eternal beauty the sea.

Man
overboard!

As the night, left the lute Torrevieja San Rafael, with
a cargo of salt to Gibraltar.

The cove was packed, and on deck amontonábanse
sacks, forming a mountain around the mainmast. To move from stem to
stern, the crew were on the edges, holding with dangerous balance.

The
night was good summer night with stars in bulk and a cool breeze,
somewhat irregular, that as soon swelled the great lateen sail up
the mast to moan as ceased to blow, falling faint the vast canvas
with loud flapping.

The crew, five men and a boy, had dinner after
the exit maneuver, and once slicing the steaming cauldron, which sank
the fishing fraternity from crust to the pattern to the boy disappeared
down the hatch all off duty, to stand on the hard mattress, their
bellies swollen with wine and watermelon juice.

It was at the helm
Uncle Sparks, a toothless shark that growls eagerly welcomed the latest
indications of the pattern, and with him his protege Juanillo, a rookie
who did San Rafael in his first trip, and I was very grateful to the
old man through whom he entered in the crew, killing your hunger,
it was not little.

The wretched lute antojábasele the boy a ship
Admiral, a happy ship, sailing sea ​​of ​​plenty. Dinner that night
was the first dinner he had made serious in your life.

Had reached
nineteen years, hungry and almost naked as a savage, sleeping the
crooked hut where her grandmother wailed and prayed, still by rheumatism:
day helped to launch the boats unloading fish baskets, or pest was
in boats chasing tuna and sardines, to take home a handful of tiny
fish. But now, thanks to Uncle Sparks, who was law for having known
his father, he was a sailor, was in way if anything, could rightly
put his arm into the cauldron, and even wore shoes, the first of his
life, superb pieces able to navigate as a frigate, which plunged in
an ecstasy of worship. And yet they say that if the sea! ... Come
on, man.  By an automatic chain of thought Grace's
mind reverted to the tooth-drawing scene described by her husband; and for the first time she
wondered if that narrative were really true, Susan's jaws being so obviously sound and strong.
Grace turned up towards the nut-gatherers, and conquered her reluctance to speak to the girl
who was a little in advance of Tim. "Good-evening, Susan," she said.

"Good-evening, Miss Melbury" (crack).

"Mrs. Fitzpiers."

"Oh yes, ma'am--Mrs. Fitzpiers," said Suke, with a peculiar smile.

Grace, not to be daunted, continued: "Take care of your teeth, Suke. That accounts for the
toothache."

"I don't know what an ache is, either in tooth, ear, or head, thank the Lord" (crack).

"Nor the loss of one, either?"

"See for yourself, ma'am." She parted her red lips, and exhibited the whole double row, full
up and unimpaired.

"You have never had one drawn?"

"Never."

"So much the better for your stomach," said Mrs. Fitzpiers, in an altered voice.  And turning
away quickly, she went on.

As her husband's character thus shaped itself under the touch of time, Grace was almost startled
to find how little she suffered from that jealous excitement which is conventionally attributed
to all wives in such circumstances.  But though possessed by none of that feline wildness which
it was her moral duty to experience, she did not fail to know that she had made a frightful
mistake in her marriage. Acquiescence in her father's wishes had been degradation to herself.
People are not given premonitions for nothing; she should have obeyed her impulse on that early
morning, and steadfastly refused her hand.

Oh, that plausible tale which her then betrothed had told her about Suke--the dramatic account
of her entreaties to him to draw the aching enemy, and the fine artistic touch he had given
to the story by explaining that it was a lovely molar without a flaw!

She traced the remainder of the woodland track dazed by the complications of her position.
If his protestations to her before their marriage could be believed, her husband had felt affection
of some sort for herself and this woman simultaneously; and was now again spreading the same
emotion over Mrs. Charmond and herself conjointly, his manner being still kind and fond at
times. But surely, rather than that, he must have played the hypocrite towards her in each
case with elaborate completeness; and the thought of this sickened her, for it involved the
conjecture that if he had not loved her, his only motive for making her his wife must have
been her little fortune.  Yet here Grace made a mistake, for the love of men like Fitzpiers
is unquestionably of such quality as to bear division and transference. He had indeed, once
declared, though not to her, that on one occasion he had noticed himself to be possessed by
five distinct infatuations at the same time.  Therein it differed from the highest affection
as the lower orders of the animal world differ from advanced organisms, partition causing,
not death, but a multiplied existence.  He had loved her sincerely, and had by no means ceased
to love her now. But such double and treble barrelled hearts were naturally beyond her conception.

Of poor Suke Damson, Grace thought no more.  She had had her day.

"If he does not love me I will not love him!" said Grace, proudly. And though these were mere
words, it was a somewhat formidable thing for Fitzpiers that her heart was approximating to
a state in which it might be possible to carry them out.  That very absence of hot jealousy
which made his courses so easy, and on which, indeed, he congratulated himself, meant, unknown
to either wife or husband, more mischief than the inconvenient watchfulness of a jaundiced eye.

Her sleep that night was nervous.  The wing allotted to her and her husband had never seemed
so lonely.  At last she got up, put on her dressing-gown, and went down-stairs.  Her father,
who slept lightly, heard her descend, and came to the stair-head.

"Is that you, Grace? What's the matter?" he said.

"Nothing more than that I am restless.  Edgar is detained by a case at Owlscombe in White Hart
Vale."

"But how's that? I saw the woman's husband at Great Hintock just afore bedtime; and she was
going on well, and the doctor gone then."

"Then he's detained somewhere else," said Grace.  "Never mind me; he will soon be home.  I
expect him about one."

She went back to her room, and dozed and woke several times.  One o'clock had been the hour
of his return on the last occasion; but it passed now by a long way, and Fitzpiers did not
come.  Just before dawn she heard the men stirring in the yard; and the flashes of their lanterns
spread every now and then through her window-blind.  She remembered that her father had told
her not to be disturbed if she noticed them, as they would be rising early to send off four
loads of hurdles to a distant sheep-fair.  Peeping out, she saw them bustling about, the hollow-turner
among the rest; he was loading his wares--wooden-bowls, dishes, spigots, spoons, cheese-vats,
funnels, and so on--upon one of her father's wagons, who carried them to the fair for him every
year out of neighborly kindness.

The scene and the occasion would have enlivened her but that her husband was still absent;
though it was now five o'clock.  She could hardly suppose him, whatever his infatuation, to
have prolonged to a later hour than ten an ostensibly professional call on Mrs. Charmond at
Middleton; and he could have ridden home in two hours and a half. What, then, had become of
him? That he had been out the greater part of the two preceding nights added to her uneasiness.

She dressed herself, descended, and went out, the weird twilight of advancing day chilling
the rays from the lanterns, and making the men's faces wan.  As soon as Melbury saw her he
came round, showing his alarm.

"Edgar is not come," she said.  "And I have reason to know that he's not attending anybody.
He has had no rest for two nights before this. I was going to the top of the hill to look for him."

"I'll come with you," said Melbury.

She begged him not to hinder himself; but he insisted, for he saw a peculiar and rigid gloom
in her face over and above her uneasiness, and did not like the look of it.  Telling the men
he would be with them again soon, he walked beside her into the turnpike-road, and partly up
the hill whence she had watched Fitzpiers the night before across the Great White Hart or Blackmoor
Valley.  They halted beneath a half-dead oak, hollow, and disfigured with white tumors, its
roots spreading out like accipitrine claws grasping the ground.  A chilly wind circled round
them, upon whose currents the seeds of a neighboring lime-tree, supported parachute-wise by
the wing attached, flew out of the boughs downward like fledglings from their nest.  The vale
was wrapped in a dim atmosphere of unnaturalness, and the east was like a livid curtain edged
with pink.  There was no sign nor sound of Fitzpiers.

"It is no use standing here," said her father.  "He may come home fifty ways...why, look here!--here
be Darling's tracks--turned homeward and nearly blown dry and hard! He must have come in hours
ago without your seeing him."

"He has not done that," said she.

They went back hastily.  On entering their own gates they perceived that the men had left the
wagons, and were standing round the door of the stable which had been appropriated to the doctor's
use.  "Is there anything the matter?" cried Grace.

"Oh no, ma'am.  All's well that ends well," said old Timothy Tangs. "I've heard of such things
before--among workfolk, though not among your gentle people--that's true."

They entered the stable, and saw the pale shape of Darling standing in the middle of her stall,
with Fitzpiers on her back, sound asleep. Darling was munching hay as well as she could with
the bit in her month, and the reins, which had fallen from Fitzpiers's hand, hung upon her neck.

Grace went and touched his hand; shook it before she could arouse him. He moved, started, opened
his eyes, and exclaimed, "Ah, Felice!...Oh, it's Grace.  I could not see in the gloom.  What--am
I in the saddle?"

"Yes," said she.  "How do you come here?"

He collected his thoughts, and in a few minutes stammered, "I was riding along homeward through
the vale, very, very sleepy, having been up so much of late.  When I came opposite Holywell
spring the mare turned her head that way, as if she wanted to drink.  I let her go in, and
she drank; I thought she would never finish.  While she was drinking, the clock of Owlscombe
Church struck twelve.  I distinctly remember counting the strokes.  From that moment I positively
recollect nothing till I saw you here by my side."

"The name! If it had been any other horse he'd have had a broken neck!" murmured Melbury.

"'Tis wonderful, sure, how a quiet hoss will bring a man home at such times!" said John Upjohn.
"And what's more wonderful than keeping your seat in a deep, slumbering sleep?  I've knowed
men drowze off walking home from randies where the mead and other liquors have gone round well,
and keep walking for more than a mile on end without waking. Well, doctor, I don't care who
the man is, 'tis a mercy you wasn't a drownded, or a splintered, or a hanged up to a tree like
Absalom--also a handsome gentleman like yerself, as the prophets say."

"True," murmured old Timothy.  "From the soul of his foot to the crown of his head there was
no blemish in him."

"Or leastwise you might ha' been a-wownded into tatters a'most, and no doctor to jine your
few limbs together within seven mile!"

While this grim address was proceeding, Fitzpiers had dismounted, and taking Grace's arm walked
stiffly in-doors with her.  Melbury stood staring at the horse, which, in addition to being
very weary, was spattered with mud.  There was no mud to speak of about the Hintocks just now--only
in the clammy hollows of the vale beyond Owlscombe, the stiff soil of which retained moisture
for weeks after the uplands were dry.  While they were rubbing down the mare, Melbury's mind
coupled with the foreign quality of the mud the name he had heard unconsciously muttered by
the surgeon when Grace took his hand--"Felice."  Who was Felice? Why, Mrs. Charmond; and she,
as he knew, was staying at Middleton.

Melbury had indeed pounced upon the image that filled Fitzpiers's half-awakened soul--wherein
there had been a picture of a recent interview on a lawn with a capriciously passionate woman
who had begged him not to come again in tones whose vibration incited him to disobey. "What
are you doing here? Why do you pursue me? Another belongs to you. If they were to see you they
would seize you as a thief!" And she had turbulently admitted to his wringing questions that
her visit to Middleton had been undertaken less because of the invalid relative than in shamefaced
fear of her own weakness if she remained near his home. A triumph then it was to Fitzpiers,
poor and hampered as he had become, to recognize his real conquest of this beauty, delayed
so many years. His was the selfish passion of Congreve's Millamont, to whom love's supreme
delight lay in "that heart which others bleed for, bleed for me."

When the horse had been attended to Melbury stood uneasily here and there about his premises;
he was rudely disturbed in the comfortable views which had lately possessed him on his domestic
concerns.  It is true that he had for some days discerned that Grace more and more sought his
company, preferred supervising his kitchen and bakehouse with her step-mother to occupying
herself with the lighter details of her own apartments.  She seemed no longer able to find
in her own hearth an adequate focus for her life, and hence, like a weak queen-bee after leading
off to an independent home, had hovered again into the parent hive.  But he had not construed
these and other incidents of the kind till now.

Something was wrong in the dove-cot.  A ghastly sense that he alone would be responsible for
whatever unhappiness should be brought upon her for whom he almost solely lived, whom to retain
under his roof he had faced the numerous inconveniences involved in giving up the best part
of his house to Fitzpiers.  There was no room for doubt that, had he allowed events to take
their natural course, she would have accepted Winterborne, and realized his old dream of restitution
to that young man's family.

That Fitzpiers could allow himself to look on any other creature for a moment than Grace filled
Melbury with grief and astonishment.  In the pure and simple life he had led it had scarcely
occurred to him that after marriage a man might be faithless.  That he could sweep to the heights
of Mrs. Charmond's position, lift the veil of Isis, so to speak, would have amazed Melbury
by its audacity if he had not suspected encouragement from that quarter.  What could he and
his simple Grace do to countervail the passions of such as those two sophisticated beings--versed
in the world's ways, armed with every apparatus for victory?  In such an encounter the homely
timber-dealer felt as inferior as a bow-and-arrow savage before the precise weapons of modern
warfare.

Grace came out of the house as the morning drew on.  The village was silent, most of the folk
having gone to the fair.  Fitzpiers had retired to bed, and was sleeping off his fatigue. 
She went to the stable and looked at poor Darling: in all probability Giles Winterborne, by
obtaining for her a horse of such intelligence and docility, had been the means of saving her
husband's life.  She paused over the strange thought; and then there appeared her father behind
her.  She saw that he knew things were not as they ought to be, from the troubled dulness of
his eye, and from his face, different points of which had independent motions, twitchings,
and tremblings, unknown to himself, and involuntary.

"He was detained, I suppose, last night?" said Melbury.

"Oh yes; a bad case in the vale," she replied, calmly.

"Nevertheless, he should have stayed at home."

"But he couldn't, father."

Her father turned away.  He could hardly bear to see his whilom truthful girl brought to the
humiliation of having to talk like that.

That night carking care sat beside Melbury's pillow, and his stiff limbs tossed at its presence.
"I can't lie here any longer," he muttered.  Striking a light, he wandered about the room.
"What have I done--what have I done for her?" he said to his wife, who had anxiously awakened.
"I had long planned that she should marry the son of the man I wanted to make amends to; do
ye mind how I told you all about it, Lucy, the night before she came home? Ah! but I was not
content with doing right, I wanted to do more!"

"Don't raft yourself without good need, George," she replied.  "I won't quite believe that
things are so much amiss.  I won't believe that Mrs. Charmond has encouraged him.  Even supposing
she has encouraged a great many, she can have no motive to do it now. What so likely as that
she is not yet quite well, and doesn't care to let another doctor come near her?"

He did not heed.  "Grace used to be so busy every day, with fixing a curtain here and driving
a tin-tack there; but she cares for no employment now!"

"Do you know anything of Mrs. Charmond's past history? Perhaps that would throw some light
upon things.  Before she came here as the wife of old Charmond four or five years ago, not
a soul seems to have heard aught of her.  Why not make inquiries? And then do ye wait and see
more; there'll be plenty of opportunity.  Time enough to cry when you know 'tis a crying matter;
and 'tis bad to meet troubles half-way."

There was some good-sense in the notion of seeing further. Melbury resolved to inquire and
wait, hoping still, but oppressed between-whiles with much fear.

CHAPTER XXX.

Examine Grace as her father might, she would admit nothing.  For the present, therefore, he
simply watched.

The suspicion that his darling child was being slighted wrought almost a miraculous change
in Melbury's nature.  No man so furtive for the time as the ingenuous countryman who finds
that his ingenuousness has been abused.  Melbury's heretofore confidential candor towards his
gentlemanly son-in-law was displaced by a feline stealth that did injury to his every action,
thought, and mood.  He knew that a woman once given to a man for life took, as a rule, her
lot as it came and made the best of it, without external interference; but for the first time
he asked himself why this so generally should be so.  Moreover, this case was not, he argued,
like ordinary cases.  Leaving out the question of Grace being anything but an ordinary woman,
her peculiar situation, as it were in mid-air between two planes of society, together with
the loneliness of Hintock, made a husband's neglect a far more tragical matter to her than
it would be to one who had a large circle of friends to fall back upon.  Wisely or unwisely,
and whatever other fathers did, he resolved to fight his daughter's battle still.

Mrs. Charmond had returned.  But Hintock House scarcely gave forth signs of life, so quietly
had she reentered it.  He went to church at Great Hintock one afternoon as usual, there being
no service at the smaller village.  A few minutes before his departure, he had casually heard
Fitzpiers, who was no church-goer, tell his wife that he was going to walk in the wood.  Melbury
entered the building and sat down in his pew; the parson came in, then Mrs. Charmond, then
Mr. Fitzpiers.

The service proceeded, and the jealous father was quite sure that a mutual consciousness was
uninterruptedly maintained between those two; he fancied that more than once their eyes met. The saying
says: For my money, Dad I love him.

In countries with a backward culture, we see a phenomenon which, as we get civilized and a little
more polishing, wanes, and that does not disappear completely. Is this phenomenon disgrace,
discredited, the strong suspicion, and even the horror that surrounds him that is poor, which
is hated, when it is neglected. The old Spanish proverb states that the money is the whole man:
that is, that money is guaranteed straight, probity and integrity in whom you have. Further away
is yet another proverb: Poverty is not shame, but bouquet of spice.

Our immortal Cervantes, echoing the general sentiment, he says, not once, it is difficult for
a poor to be honest.

Well you can bet that no one would think, in our century, San Jose excuse have been a carpenter,
and assume that tickets had three or mortgage.

Neither by the blood nobility apologized poverty before having money has been in all Source
century nobility. Monies are quality, the din is better than the gift, are sayings corroborate
my assertion.

The deep reverence that inspire the money and who has always been identical. The has declined
somewhat is the horror or contempt for the poor, and some pitfalls that must be rich in old,
perpetually surrounded. Prudent and discreet man was, not many years ago, everywhere, and the day
has even, on many, to do if you can, a great mystery of the state of their finances, especially
if it is or was very rich or very Poor: If you are very poor, so you will not despise, and
if it is very rich, so you will not steal or kill him. Here in this awful dilemma of being dismissed
or threatened with death born that sentence of moralists, that civilized countries today seems
so stupid and so absurd that I had that desire was a mediocrity of fortune, to live happily and
quiet, not envious or envied. Because, in truth, if money is a good while greater good, should
be more palatable, and not conceived the golden mediocritas held by Horace and other poets of
all times, but remembering that the wealthy man was continuously exposed to kill or mistreat him
to steal, and the emperor or Prince under whose rule he lived, and greedy mob. And when wealth
was not annexed a high degree of power was a constant danger, and almost impossible to conjure. I
do not think I hate that deep that we had in the Middle Ages the Jews were just coming deicide
people, but they were rich. The frequent killings of Jews that occurred in Spain perhaps they
had not come to fruition, if the Jews had been careful to stay poor. Something similar can be
said of the monks in recent days, after they lost retained the power
and wealth, while the scandal has been lower because the sweetness
of customs, the greater abundance of money and wellness, and more
concerted and political way of life of men, have diminished the hatred
of those who do not have that have.

Proof of this confidence about them is that now, in civilized countries, nobody or almost nobody treasures.
A few years ago, all that were treasured. Popular literature is full
of stories and legends of hidden treasures, guarded by a dragon, a
giant or a monster terrible, nothing less was needed so as not to
steal. Fitzpiers clasped her hanging hand, and, while she still remained in the same listless
attitude, looking volumes into his eyes, he stealthily unbuttoned her glove, and stripped her
hand of it by rolling back the gauntlet over the fingers, so that it came off inside out. 
He then raised her hand to his month, she still reclining passively, watching him as she might
have watched a fly upon her dress.  At last she said, "Well, sir, what excuse for this disobedience?"

"I make none."

"Then go your way, and let me go mine." She snatched away her hand, touched the pony with the
whip, and left him standing there, holding the reversed glove.

Melbury's first impulse was to reveal his presence to Fitzpiers, and upbraid him bitterly.
But a moment's thought was sufficient to show him the futility of any such simple proceeding.
There was not, after all, so much in what he had witnessed as in what that scene might be the
surface and froth of--probably a state of mind on which censure operates as an aggravation
rather than as a cure. Moreover, he said to himself that the point of attack should be the
woman, if either.  He therefore kept out of sight, and musing sadly, even tearfully--for he
was meek as a child in matters concerning his daughter--continued his way towards Hintock.

The insight which is bred of deep sympathy was never more finely exemplified than in this instance.
Through her guarded manner, her dignified speech, her placid countenance, he discerned the
interior of Grace's life only too truly, hidden as were its incidents from every outer eye.

These incidents had become painful enough.  Fitzpiers had latterly developed an irritable discontent
which vented itself in monologues when Grace was present to hear them.  The early morning of
this day had been dull, after a night of wind, and on looking out of the window Fitzpiers had
observed some of Melbury's men dragging away a large limb which had been snapped off a beech-tree.
Everything was cold and colorless.

"My good Heaven!" he said, as he stood in his dressing-gown. "This is life!" He did not know
whether Grace was awake or not, and he would not turn his head to ascertain.  "Ah, fool," he
went on to himself, "to clip your own wings when you were free to soar!...But I could not rest
till I had done it.  Why do I never recognize an opportunity till I have missed it, nor the
good or ill of a step till it is irrevocable!...I fell in love....Love, indeed!--

    "'Love's but the frailty of the mind
      When 'tis not with ambition joined;
      A sickly flame which if not fed, expires,
      And feeding, wastes in self-consuming fires!'

Ah, old author of 'The Way of the World,' you knew--you knew!" Grace moved.  He thought she
had heard some part of his soliloquy. He was sorry--though he had not taken any precaution
to prevent her.

He expected a scene at breakfast, but she only exhibited an extreme reserve.  It was enough,
however, to make him repent that he should have done anything to produce discomfort; for he
attributed her manner entirely to what he had said.  But Grace's manner had not its cause either
in his sayings or in his doings. She had not heard a single word of his regrets.  Something
even nearer home than her husband's blighted prospects--if blighted they were--was the origin
of her mood, a mood that was the mere continuation of what her father had noticed when he would
have preferred a passionate jealousy in her, as the more natural.

She had made a discovery--one which to a girl of honest nature was almost appalling.  She had
looked into her heart, and found that her early interest in Giles Winterborne had become revitalized
into luxuriant growth by her widening perceptions of what was great and little in life.  His
homeliness no longer offended her acquired tastes; his comparative want of so-called culture
did not now jar on her intellect; his country dress even pleased her eye; his exterior roughness
fascinated her.  Having discovered by marriage how much that was humanly not great could co-exist
with attainments of an exceptional order, there was a revulsion in her sentiments from all
that she had formerly clung to in this kind: honesty, goodness, manliness, tenderness, devotion,
for her only existed in their purity now in the breasts of unvarnished men; and here was one
who had manifested them towards her from his youth up. Finally, I Mari
Pepa thought. Mari Pepa is coming here as a nurse with all my heart, and coming it will come Lita
too, and under the pretext of accompanying Don Celso, pass to his side all day and make this
big house an aviary. You what do you think?

Pearl seemed to me, and so he declared to Neluco.

He was to turn the plan into a thing made, and arrive in the bedroom this Chisco.

Which was no longer in it or nearby. Tona asking him, we knew that he was, some time ago, fixing
the cattle. We went down to the stables and there we found him. Something arm still hurt "jancia
the hombral" but as was the left, handles well for their business. He had a good 'appetite' is'
did discover "the other rowing final, and That was up as usual. I knew what his master, and he
had "the diantris" to consider that while the poor guy went through hell, he was sleeping leg
loose all night, and because of "softness and arreparus" who had been "malamenti" a man with his
belt. Pulsóle the doctor and he acknowledged the arm and head injury; gave him for safe and sound
if required to observe certain prescribed care, bye me until "later",
and left.

Before leaving I said very softly:

- I think I did very poorly last night to refer certain things in front of your uncle, so I was
impressed that the poor guy.

I suspected the same, and returned to the patient's bedside and sat at the head of your bed.
I found him more "human" than before, no doubt because it was also more depressed. Tempt him
not desire speak, nor was desirable provocársele as very expensive custom of Neluco, tell me I think
by having nothing else to occupy them there. It was certain that I had come really want to
my uncle: the view was what hurt me the seriousness of his condition and the danger he was
in the hands quedársenos when least expected, and yet the prospect of that number of bed days
imposed by the doctor to the patient, with Subject to that made me this extent, the scant and gloomy
precincts of that room, and tenacious, thick snow that had heaven in darkness, the earth without
soil to tread and imprisoned its inhabitants, I worried and hurt me why deny it! more. The heart
frequently vitiated human of these ailments, not evil itself, but for lack education of the
feelings, disuse of the most delicate of them, remnants of selfishness acquired the freedom of
a life without barriers and boundaries. I Explicábame that weakness, which seemed to grave
sin, with these thoughts, and they consoled me, although not as much as the hope that plans
be made and come Neluco Lita and her mother, Lita especially to relieve the weight of the cross,
renewing the air and faces and sounds and light up those areas sorrowful, silent, black and dreary.
But lend themselves to come Mari Pepa and her daughter, despite their good and charitable desires?
Is not arredrarían barriers of snow and cold, cold that he had not felt maybe I did in Russia, not
to be in Tablanca other recourse than to the kitchen and a bad brazier to fight him? I knew Mal breaths
tablanquesas ladies! By midmorning entered the door of the room of the house the daughter
and granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco, shortly after I heard if any "chirp" and fill the passage
of Argentina and harmonious voices.

Also He had guessed my uncle.

- Jesus! ... The cellerisca! - He exclaimed, to hear, in a tone that showed more joy weigh.

I went to meet him and got a pinch without hiding the great joy that his visit gave me. The eyes
and nose were all that was seen of his people: all else was a conglomerate skirts, jackets, shawls
and woolen shawls thick and sweet. Asking and saying, pray quietly (when it was undesirable
that could hear my uncle), now almost shouting (to agree hear it), were loosened head and discovering
his face, until it appeared in Lita (I saw little in the other) as moon in January between gray
clouds, or more properly, as an August apple wrapped in the leaves
of the branch: this was coloradito of smooth and down the roundness
of her flesh there.

As they came well-informed and educated by Neluco, little or no talk about the role they corresponded
in the comedy that we were going to represent in front of the patient. Don Pedro Nolasco was unable
to accompany them, or rather, had not allowed them, for fear fall would have been fatal in hombrazo
of his years ... because they were the roads Virgin Mary, our Mother! they were scary. It 'eslociaban
"foot in the snow as eels in hand. Only on the rise it had fallen scree (Lituca) twice, and
the same knee that must have made a pity. I had not seen it yet, but I could swear by what the
"sting", but not preventing movement, thank God. Moreover, they knew that the patient did not
suit him talk, although the request: the Occasionally, some chunga, as if evil was a joke, on time
and with love, drugs and food, and to forgive them if they openly for inviting us to eat, because
they, under the pretext of the snow, had planned to stay until night without Don Celso malice
the truth of reason. They came equipped to do more entertaining work hours remaining around the
brazier.

My uncle were received with four jokes and some regrets. Although still alive, was given be dead
now. They protested against the course, assuring him that he had "lodging" then it was the
coldness of snow, and may also feel some of that would give the knowledge
of what happened on the mountain the day before.

- Do not deny it
- it answered my uncle - and therefore no two ways about what you
I said, for what can be expected as a man of my vein when left mayor,
as I am mayor, by tinkering like that?

It was the truth, but, nevertheless, insisted the women bonísimas
deny it, but not the impetus needed to achieve its charitable purposes,
they were extremely affectionate and were imposed and shaken before
that exhaustion and that cadaverous pallor the poor Don Celso, neither
for the sake of maintaining their rights ignored by professional tyranny
of Neluco, remembered and rising.

They left at last in the calm he needed instalámonos in the adjoining room, came gray woman
with encogollado brazier of glowing embers, put him in the box that was there, and we sat around it,
without losing sight of the sick, Mari Pepa, her daughter and me.

Mari Pepa got a very large pocket of her apron to the accoutrements of media; Lita (I did
not know what withdrawal of its complicated wrappers) to the nail, and both began to work in their
work and talk at the same time, but with eyes and sign with the mouth, which had to do with
the status of my uncle. Of "what happened yesterday," there was much more, and with some care
to not heard from the bedroom as I could impress again. It was a miracle of God that we do not hear
most of it, because with the stubborn determination I had in that there should be something between
Lita and physician I was really heavy and insistent in certain passages of dialogue, particularly
during Mari Pepa getaway to the bedroom, because my uncle had coughed or believed that he
had called ... or to see if I needed something, but coughed or call. At Don Pedro Nolasco had
known all, shortly before going on "the cloud" that had terrified. They had lived in the same
anguish I late into the night. I spoke of Lita had doubts Toper's home, and here's where my tenacity
bordering on impertinence. I met him at a glance strangeness with my beautiful interlocutor who responded
to me a hint that were cleared too my intentions. I won the serenity that seemed protest against
poor understood right to ask "certain things" for very obvious they were.

Then came Don Sabas, complaining since the passage of the regard that had been saved in our house
that night. Who told us that traveling at about the mountain, no guts to stay with him for doing
his duty at any time to call your door? And if the thing had pressed a little more than pressed,
what would have been Christian in danger of death? Who have been
the responsibility?

What would he said and what of us? ... And while not squeezing the thing, how soon are good friends?

-
Well, look - he said to bed hugging Don Celso - what is it you do not forgive.

- Bah, bah! - The aforementioned thrashing grumbled a bit - do not break my head. You can JACER
what suits you, well I know what I did.

- Jinojo! - Said Don Sabas - is that the courtesy that was such that
if not now topo mesmo with Neluco, blessed day passes without me to
know what happened to you last night.

I intervened, desenojé the Priest, he remained alone with my uncle
and continue the others around brazier, as before, talk talk, on "last
night" over "what happened yesterday" and even on certain promises
made by me to my interlocutors that the day was known, eat at home
any time; promise was still unfulfilled, because it noticeable from
the hectic life he led uphill and downhill, if not the fierce temporary
I had locked the house.

At noon came Neluco, not found in the patient nothing special or new, nor wanted to enter the
plea I made to stay and eat us pray for his part, I was rebuffed
and the Cure.

Then they went both together after prescribing first aid plan for the evening, and to avert
the second to that for any reason or human courtesy we fail to notify the minor novelty Lita
and her mother returned to the bedroom of the patient to weigh the improvement noticed in he
(and God knows how knowingly lied in their weights), and give Mari Pepa few sips of milk while
his daughter arranged the bedclothes and women entering gray lounge set the table near the hearth,
and little time we sat down to eat.

Eating and talking, I had to say, because I asked my talkative diners, what things were eaten
by the wealthy, and at what times, in "into the world again." All were astonished those women
very simple, and I perceived this, and I liked to speed up the note, and so I to ponder the exquisite
taste of frog legs and swallow nests, including distinguished and elegant junk food that I
quoted. And it was to see the face then Mari Pepa put and gestures of disgust Lituca was looking
at his mother and back at me to me, as if he doubted the truth of what I meant.

- Pure vice daughter, pure pleasure - said after Mari-Pepa -; pure pleasure of it jartura those
living Genton, of what God created.

As it was so bonded with each other, pulling out the way of eating lifestyle and mode of travel.
New fans and new amazement. Thesis also extremely well here, and even suspect that I lied a
little, but within the plausible and pardonable. Lo bed near dawn and rise after midday to stay
at home until the evening, I marveled as much as swallow nest soup
and fried legs frog.

- Mary my Mother! - Lita cried upon hearing
it - because if these people never see ever the sun, so what is he
can see the happy and fattening?

I think that's living against the law.

- Vice, daughter, vice - insisted Mari Pepa -; habit of not knowing what jacerse in a life so
spoiled.

Lita asked me if I also had 'over there' these bad habits, I replied that yes, and I said,
all comments, with a truly naive and infantile simplicity:

- Well, be good rascal you ... Right, mom?

I celebrated the saying with a laugh no less naive, then giving thanks
for the compliment, about the same time responding to the question
Mari Pepa:

- Who knows, daughter of soul, who knows?

Jaz who eat "nial" swallow unruptured of "doubt", you can jacerse
to live that way without offending God or break your health.

With the exception of his mother Lita was very red, and he wanted
me he could amend like his impertinence, and I, without leaving conclusion,
paved the way for your wishes offering it to boot a statement, not
devoid of sincerity, of my great disappointments.

- It would happen
about now - I objected Mari Pepa - when one was married, to live as
God intended.

What the heck want to know and possible when they are lonely monsoon family open house? ... Well,
look, Don Marcelo, said that for these houses, close-knit they are,
whenever the devil has a key.

- You can have it - I said I was very
formal - but in mine never entered.

- Jorrios, trapacerón of satanincas!

Released

after the laughter, and dropped it while Lita. I help them with another, by the grace I did both, and
then began the "mince" and shootings that could not miss there, among
the three.

Because these riddles are innate in women of all castes and latitudes; and put them all in the
same situation, all except the differences of place and style come to dig in the grounds and
with its own aims.

Always initiatives and force of daring, the cunning and tenacity, the mother, the subject studied,
the ill-concealed curiosity, eloquent silence, looking sideways, the punctured subtle, daughter.
So the two came to take for granted that I would have had no less than fifty brides nor would
drop the remaining three in Madrid crying my absences and maybe my
ingratitude.

But if the background scene was not new to me, éranlo, to fascinate,
those quaint nuances of language, this dialectic haphazardly, without
scaffolding or rhetorical devices conventional sanotas those sprouting
from mischief palabreo joyful, spontaneous fresh, airy and transcending
to 'land' as the roses in the garden between the virginal and splendid
litter fence that protects them.

So I felt in my soul that had just this highly original "discreteo."



If Melbury only had known what fires he was recklessly stirring up he might have held his peace.
Winterborne was silent a long time. The darkness had closed in round them, and the monotonous
drip of the fog from the branches quickened as it turned to fine rain.

"Oh, she never cared much for me," Giles managed to say, as he stirred the embers with a brand.

"She did, and does, I tell ye," said the other, obstinately. "However, all that's vain talking
now.  What I come to ask you about is a more practical matter--how to make the best of things
as they are.  I am thinking of a desperate step--of calling on the woman Charmond.  I am going
to appeal to her, since Grace will not.  'Tis she who holds the balance in her hands--not he.
While she's got the will to lead him astray he will follow--poor, unpractical, lofty-notioned
dreamer--and how long she'll do it depends upon her whim.  Did ye ever hear anything about
her character before she came to Hintock?"

"She's been a bit of a charmer in her time, I believe," replied Giles, with the same level
quietude, as he regarded the red coals. "One who has smiled where she has not loved and loved
where she has not married. Before Mr. Charmond made her his wife she was a play-actress."

"Hey?  But how close you have kept all this, Giles! What besides?"

"Mr. Charmond was a rich man, engaged in the iron trade in the north, twenty or thirty years
older than she.  He married her and retired, and came down here and bought this property, as
they do nowadays."

"Yes, yes--I know all about that; but the other I did not know.  I fear it bodes no good. 
For how can I go and appeal to the forbearance of a woman in this matter who has made cross-loves
and crooked entanglements her trade for years?  I thank ye, Giles, for finding it out; but
it makes my plan the harder that she should have belonged to that unstable tribe."

Another pause ensued, and they looked gloomily at the smoke that beat about the hurdles which
sheltered them, through whose weavings a large drop of rain fell at intervals and spat smartly
into the fire.  Mrs. Charmond had been no friend to Winterborne, but he was manly, and it was
not in his heart to let her be condemned without a trial.

"She is said to be generous," he answered.  "You might not appeal to her in vain."

"It shall be done," said Melbury, rising.  "For good or for evil, to Mrs. Charmond I'll go."

CHAPTER XXXII.

At nine o'clock the next morning Melbury dressed himself up in shining broadcloth, creased
with folding and smelling of camphor, and started for Hintock House.  He was the more impelled
to go at once by the absence of his son-in-law in London for a few days, to attend, really
or ostensibly, some professional meetings.  He said nothing of his destination either to his
wife or to Grace, fearing that they might entreat him to abandon so risky a project, and went
out unobserved.  He had chosen his time with a view, as he supposed, of conveniently catching
Mrs. Charmond when she had just finished her breakfast, before any other business people should
be about, if any came.  Plodding thoughtfully onward, he crossed a glade lying between Little
Hintock Woods and the plantation which abutted on the park; and the spot being open, he was
discerned there by Winterborne from the copse on the next hill, where he and his men were working.
Knowing his mission, the younger man hastened down from the copse and managed to intercept
the timber-merchant.

"I have been thinking of this, sir," he said, "and I am of opinion that it would be best to
put off your visit for the present."

But Melbury would not even stop to hear him.  His mind was made up, the appeal was to be made;
and Winterborne stood and watched him sadly till he entered the second plantation and disappeared.

Melbury rang at the tradesmen's door of the manor-house, and was at once informed that the
lady was not yet visible, as indeed he might have guessed had he been anybody but the man he
was. Melbury said he would wait, whereupon the young man informed him in a neighborly way that,
between themselves, she was in bed and asleep.

"Never mind," said Melbury, retreating into the court, "I'll stand about here." Charged so
fully with his mission, he shrank from contact with anybody.

But he walked about the paved court till he was tired, and still nobody came to him.  At last
he entered the house and sat down in a small waiting-room, from which he got glimpses of the
kitchen corridor, and of the white-capped maids flitting jauntily hither and thither.  They
had heard of his arrival, but had not seen him enter, and, imagining him still in the court,
discussed freely the possible reason of his calling.  They marvelled at his temerity; for though
most of the tongues which had been let loose attributed the chief blame-worthiness to Fitzpiers,
these of her household preferred to regard their mistress as the deeper sinner.

Melbury sat with his hands resting on the familiar knobbed thorn walking-stick, whose growing
he had seen before he enjoyed its use. The scene to him was not the material environment of
his person, but a tragic vision that travelled with him like an envelope.  Through this vision
the incidents of the moment but gleamed confusedly here and there, as an outer landscape through
the high-colored scenes of a stained window.  He waited thus an hour, an hour and a half, two
hours. He began to look pale and ill, whereupon the butler, who came in, asked him to have
a glass of wine.  Melbury roused himself and said, "No, no. Is she almost ready?"

"She is just finishing breakfast," said the butler.  "She will soon see you now.  I am just
going up to tell her you are here."

"What! haven't you told her before?" said Melbury.

"Oh no," said the other.  "You see you came so very early."

At last the bell rang: Mrs. Charmond could see him.  She was not in her private sitting-room
when he reached it, but in a minute he heard her coming from the front staircase, and she entered
where he stood.

At this time of the morning Mrs. Charmond looked her full age and more. She might almost have
been taken for the typical femme de trente ans, though she was really not more than seven or
eight and twenty.  There being no fire in the room, she came in with a shawl thrown loosely
round her shoulders, and obviously without the least suspicion that Melbury had called upon
any other errand than timber.  Felice was, indeed, the only woman in the parish who had not
heard the rumor of her own weaknesses; she was at this moment living in a fool's paradise in
respect of that rumor, though not in respect of the weaknesses themselves, which, if the truth
be told, caused her grave misgivings.

"Do sit down, Mr. Melbury.  You have felled all the trees that were to be purchased by you
this season, except the oaks, I believe."

"Yes," said Melbury.

"How very nice! It must be so charming to work in the woods just now!"

She was too careless to affect an interest in an extraneous person's affairs so consummately
as to deceive in the manner of the perfect social machine.  Hence her words "very nice," "so
charming," were uttered with a perfunctoriness that made them sound absurdly unreal.

"Yes, yes," said Melbury, in a reverie.  He did not take a chair, and she also remained standing.
Resting upon his stick, he began: "Mrs. Charmond, I have called upon a more serious matter--at
least to me--than tree-throwing.  And whatever mistakes I make in my manner of speaking upon
it to you, madam, do me the justice to set 'em down to my want of practice, and not to my want
of care."

Mrs. Charmond looked ill at ease.  She might have begun to guess his meaning; but apart from
that, she had such dread of contact with anything painful, harsh, or even earnest, that his
preliminaries alone were enough to distress her.  "Yes, what is it?" she said.

"I am an old man," said Melbury, "whom, somewhat late in life, God thought fit to bless with
one child, and she a daughter.  Her mother was a very dear wife to me, but she was taken away
from us when the child was young, and the child became precious as the apple of my eye to me,
for she was all I had left to love.  For her sake entirely I married as second wife a homespun
woman who had been kind as a mother to her.  In due time the question of her education came
on, and I said, 'I will educate the maid well, if I live upon bread to do it.' Of her possible
marriage I could not bear to think, for it seemed like a death that she should cleave to another
man, and grow to think his house her home rather than mine.  But I saw it was the law of nature
that this should be, and that it was for the maid's happiness that she should have a home when
I was gone; and I made up my mind without a murmur to help it on for her sake.  In my youth
I had wronged my dead friend, and to make amends I determined to give her, my most precious
possession, to my friend's son, seeing that they liked each other well. Things came about which
made me doubt if it would be for my daughter's happiness to do this, inasmuch as the young
man was poor, and she was delicately reared.  Another man came and paid court to her--one her
equal in breeding and accomplishments; in every way it seemed to me that he only could give
her the home which her training had made a necessity almost. I urged her on, and she married
him.  But, ma'am, a fatal mistake was at the root of my reckoning.  I found that this well-born
gentleman I had calculated on so surely was not stanch of heart, and that therein lay a danger
of great sorrow for my daughter.  Madam, he saw you, and you know the rest....I have come to
make no demands--to utter no threats; I have come simply as a father in great grief about this
only child, and I beseech you to deal kindly with my daughter, and to do nothing which can
turn her husband's heart away from her forever. Forbid him your presence, ma'am, and speak
to him on his duty as one with your power over him well can do, and I am hopeful that the rent
between them may be patched up. For it is not as if you would lose by so doing; your course
is far higher than the courses of a simple professional man, and the gratitude you would win
from me and mine by your kindness is more than I can say."

Mrs. Charmond had first rushed into a mood of indignation on comprehending Melbury's story;
hot and cold by turns, she had murmured, "Leave me, leave me!" But as he seemed to take no
notice of this, his words began to influence her, and when he ceased speaking she said, with
hurried, hot breath, "What has led you to think this of me?  Who says I have won your daughter's
husband away from her?  Some monstrous calumnies are afloat--of which I have known nothing
until now!"

Melbury started, and looked at her simply.  "But surely, ma'am, you know the truth better than I?"

Her features became a little pinched, and the touches of powder on her handsome face for the
first time showed themselves as an extrinsic film.  "Will you leave me to myself?" she said,
with a faintness which suggested a guilty conscience.  "This is so utterly unexpected--you
obtain admission to my presence by misrepresentation--"

"As God's in heaven, ma'am, that's not true.  I made no pretence; and I thought in reason you
would know why I had come.  This gossip--"

"I have heard nothing of it.  Tell me of it, I say."

"Tell you, ma'am--not I.  What the gossip is, no matter.  What really is, you know.  Set facts
right, and the scandal will right of itself. But pardon me--I speak roughly; and I came to
speak gently, to coax you, beg you to be my daughter's friend.  She loved you once, ma'am;
you began by liking her.  Then you dropped her without a reason, and it hurt her warm heart
more than I can tell ye.  But you were within your right as the superior, no doubt.  But if
you would consider her position now--surely, surely, you would do her no harm!"

"Certainly I would do her no harm--I--" Melbury's eye met hers. It was curious, but the allusion
to Grace's former love for her seemed to touch her more than all Melbury's other arguments.
"Oh, Melbury," she burst out, "you have made me so unhappy! How could you come to me like this!
It is too dreadful! Now go away--go, go!"

"I will," he said, in a husky tone.

As soon as he was out of the room she went to a corner and there sat and writhed under an emotion
in which hurt pride and vexation mingled with better sentiments.

Mrs. Charmond's mobile spirit was subject to these fierce periods of stress and storm.  She
had never so clearly perceived till now that her soul was being slowly invaded by a delirium
which had brought about all this; that she was losing judgment and dignity under it, becoming
an animated impulse only, a passion incarnate. A fascination had led her on; it was as if she
had been seized by a hand of velvet; and this was where she found herself--overshadowed with
sudden night, as if a tornado had passed by.

While she sat, or rather crouched, unhinged by the interview, lunch-time came, and then the
early afternoon, almost without her consciousness.  Then "a strange gentleman who says it is
not necessary to give his name," was suddenly announced.

"I cannot see him, whoever he may be.  I am not at home to anybody."

She heard no more of her visitor; and shortly after, in an attempt to recover some mental serenity
by violent physical exercise, she put on her hat and cloak and went out-of-doors, taking a
path which led her up the slopes to the nearest spur of the wood.  She disliked the woods,
but they had the advantage of being a place in which she could walk comparatively unobserved.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

There was agitation to-day in the lives of all whom these matters concerned.  It was not till
the Hintock dinner-time--one o'clock--that Grace discovered her father's absence from the house
after a departure in the morning under somewhat unusual conditions.  By a little reasoning
and inquiry she was able to come to a conclusion on his destination, and to divine his errand.

Her husband was absent, and her father did not return.  He had, in truth, gone on to Sherton
after the interview, but this Grace did not know.  In an indefinite dread that something serious
would arise out of Melbury's visit by reason of the inequalities of temper and nervous irritation
to which he was subject, something possibly that would bring her much more misery than accompanied
her present negative state of mind, she left the house about three o'clock, and took a loitering
walk in the woodland track by which she imagined he would come home.  This track under the
bare trees and over the cracking sticks, screened and roofed in from the outer world of wind
and cloud by a net-work of boughs, led her slowly on till in time she had left the larger trees
behind her and swept round into the coppice where Winterborne and his men were clearing the
undergrowth. The first was from my uncle to ask "Another
pillow," and that they spent three of which served as support for his back and head.

As the two women met the mandate and Mullian and arranging the resulting
heap for less discomfort for the patient left the bedroom and I Neluco
behind him, a sign that I did.

- This is for the post - I said, so
they would not hear the patient.

- So serious is it you? - Ask.

-
Very serious - he replied -.

Matter of hours or so.

So if you point the slightest desire to confess, he was not bound
by any regard, and if not points ... you seek apuntársele.

Do not I own anything new, because everything would be useless, even mortification a blister beetle.
The swelling of the legs, as you have seen, has taken tonight a big increase ... Natural own and
sudden advancement has given the disease, perhaps by the rapid decline that has occurred in
the temperature this morning ... because they do not know if there you noticed that it is cold
since dawn, cutting hair.

It was cold in my imagination a sudden scrambling of ideas, and forgetting
the sick, I remembered more than the attempt by the three outlaws
ready for that night, and so I asked the same avidity Neluco he could
do Facia in their "best days" of ghosts and sorrow:

- Do you think
it will snow?

- And the sign - I said Neluco -.

All the symptoms are of the heaviest snowfall and durable that hang around here.

- What do you too - insisted - that begins today?

- As already beginning when I came - I said -.

See you!

And led me to the door of the laundry, from whose paneled we pass,
carried by the icy breeze blowing outside, some flakes were identical
to those I had seen start another novel.

However, the sky was not so "encenizado" or dark as ever.

So I warned the doctor, and he replied:

- But everything will come, and soon, no doubt you. For the same reason - he said - must be very shelter
care of these rooms.

Do not miss it here on the hearth burned so as to keep unchanged the temperature now is in the
sick room. No precaution is to heal, or even improve it, of course, but we must put on our
part, for the sake of it, everything is possible ... Another thing: given what is happening
and, particularly, of what might happen in here that you need more people, for reasons On
another occasion gave similar, and I tell Mari Pepa to come immediately with his daughter ... You
may also say something to Don Sabas, to make it even prevented.

With little more than this and I did some warnings regarding the patient
after passing another little while at his side, he went and I remained
Neluco I plunged into the most devilish thoughts.

Satan himself, as a discourse to a conflict to the house, so I had not spun well as it was the
one I feared for the night, if baratijero threats were made, or did not come to stop and fix
all the deus ex machina of the snow, in the dose that Neluco I had predicted. Because otherwise,
"Virgin my heavenly Mother!" As have said in similar cases the gray woman. Don Celso, dying perhaps those
hours, or perhaps already dead, Lita and her mother at his side, assisting him or praying for
him in Facia reproduced paroxysms of distress, three bandits raiding the house, and I, Chisco
and Salces Pito, a clean shot with them, ending with the shock of killing my uncle, if still
alive, and setting about to die of grief for women, two of which, at least, was I have to
defend any risk as I remain a breath of life, a cartridge burn or a grill to wield. I recently
heard by the confession of Facia, I had imagined this picture much easier. Chisco, Salces Pete
and I, armed to the teeth and well perceive, and not breathing lurking in the shadows of the gate,
one of us opening the door as agreed precautions were left outside to hear the whistle of baratijero,
and then the three, as the robbers were entering ... Point-blank fire on them!


She held out her hand tentatively, while Grace stood like a wild animal on first confronting
a mirror or other puzzling product of civilization.  Was it really Mrs. Charmond speaking to
her thus? If it was, she could no longer form any guess as to what it signified.

"I want to talk with you," said Mrs. Charmond, imploringly, for the gaze of the young woman
had chilled her through.  "Can you walk on with me till we are quite alone?"

Sick with distaste, Grace nevertheless complied, as by clockwork and they moved evenly side
by side into the deeper recesses of the woods. They went farther, much farther than Mrs. Charmond
had meant to go; but she could not begin her conversation, and in default of it kept walking.

"I have seen your father," she at length resumed.  "And--I am much troubled by what he told me."

"What did he tell you? I have not been admitted to his confidence on anything he may have said
to you."

"Nevertheless, why should I repeat to you what you can easily divine?"

"True--true," returned Grace, mournfully.  "Why should you repeat what we both know to be in
our minds already?"

"Mrs. Fitzpiers, your husband--" The moment that the speaker's tongue touched the dangerous
subject a vivid look of self-consciousness flashed over her, in which her heart revealed, as
by a lightning gleam, what filled it to overflowing.  So transitory was the expression that
none but a sensitive woman, and she in Grace's position, would have had the power to catch
its meaning. Upon her the phase was not lost.

"Then you DO love him!" she exclaimed, in a tone of much surprise.

"What do you mean, my young friend?"

"Why," cried Grace, "I thought till now that you had only been cruelly flirting with my husband,
to amuse your idle moments--a rich lady with a poor professional gentleman whom in her heart
she despised not much less than her who belongs to him.  But I guess from your manner that
you love him desperately, and I don't hate you as I did before."

"Yes, indeed," continued Mrs. Fitzpiers, with a trembling tongue, "since it is not playing
in your case at all, but REAL.  Oh, I do pity you, more than I despise you, for you will s-s-suffer
most!"

Mrs. Charmond was now as much agitated as Grace.  "I ought not to allow myself to argue with
you," she exclaimed.  "I demean myself by doing it.  But I liked you once, and for the sake
of that time I try to tell you how mistaken you are!" Much of her confusion resulted from her
wonder and alarm at finding herself in a sense dominated mentally and emotionally by this simple
school-girl.  "I do not love him," she went on, with desperate untruth.  "It was a kindness--my
making somewhat more of him than one usually does of one's doctor.  I was lonely; I talked--well,
I trifled with him. I am very sorry if such child's playing out of pure friendship has been
a serious matter to you.  Who could have expected it? But the world is so simple here."

"Oh, that's affectation," said Grace, shaking her head.  "It is no use--you love him.  I can
see in your face that in this matter of my husband you have not let your acts belie your feelings.
During these last four or six months you have been terribly indiscreet; but you have not been
insincere, and that almost disarms me."

"I HAVE been insincere--if you will have the word--I mean I HAVE coquetted, and do NOT love him!"

But Grace clung to her position like a limpet.  "You may have trifled with others, but him
you love as you never loved another man."

"Oh, well--I won't argue," said Mrs. Charmond, laughing faintly. "And you come to reproach
me for it, child."

"No," said Grace, magnanimously.  "You may go on loving him if you like--I don't mind at all.
You'll find it, let me tell you, a bitterer business for yourself than for me in the end. 
He'll get tired of you soon, as tired as can be--you don't know him so well as I--and then
you may wish you had never seen him!"

Mrs. Charmond had grown quite pale and weak under this prophecy. It was extraordinary that
Grace, whom almost every one would have characterized as a gentle girl, should be of stronger
fibre than her interlocutor.  "You exaggerate--cruel, silly young woman," she reiterated, writhing
with little agonies.  "It is nothing but playful friendship--nothing! It will be proved by
my future conduct.  I shall at once refuse to see him more--since it will make no difference
to my heart, and much to my name."

"I question if you will refuse to see him again," said Grace, dryly, as with eyes askance she
bent a sapling down.  "But I am not incensed against you as you are against me," she added,
abandoning the tree to its natural perpendicular.  "Before I came I had been despising you
for wanton cruelty; now I only pity you for misplaced affection.  When Edgar has gone out of
the house in hope of seeing you, at seasonable hours and unseasonable; when I have found him
riding miles and miles across the country at midnight, and risking his life, and getting covered
with mud, to get a glimpse of you, I have called him a foolish man--the plaything of a finished
coquette.  I thought that what was getting to be a tragedy to me was a comedy to you.  But
now I see that tragedy lies on YOUR side of the situation no less than on MINE, and more; that
if I have felt trouble at my position, you have felt anguish at yours; that if I have had disappointments,
you have had despairs. Heaven may fortify me--God help you!"

"I cannot attempt to reply to your raving eloquence," returned the other, struggling to restore
a dignity which had completely collapsed. "My acts will be my proofs.  In the world which you
have seen nothing of, friendships between men and women are not unknown, and it would have
been better both for you and your father if you had each judged me more respectfully, and left
me alone.  As it is I wish never to see or speak to you, madam, any more."

Grace bowed, and Mrs. Charmond turned away.  The two went apart in directly opposite courses,
and were soon hidden from each other by their umbrageous surroundings and by the shadows of eve.

In the excitement of their long argument they had walked onward and zigzagged about without
regarding direction or distance.  All sound of the woodcutters had long since faded into remoteness,
and even had not the interval been too great for hearing them they would have been silent and
homeward bound at this twilight hour. But Grace went on her course without any misgiving, though
there was much underwood here, with only the narrowest passages for walking, across which brambles
hung.  She had not, however, traversed this the wildest part of the wood since her childhood,
and the transformation of outlines had been great; old trees which once were landmarks had
been felled or blown down, and the bushes which then had been small and scrubby were now large
and overhanging.  She soon found that her ideas as to direction were vague--that she had indeed
no ideas as to direction at all.  If the evening had not been growing so dark, and the wind
had not put on its night moan so distinctly, Grace would not have minded; but she was rather
frightened now, and began to strike across hither and thither in random courses.

Denser grew the darkness, more developed the wind-voices, and still no recognizable spot or
outlet of any kind appeared, nor any sound of the Hintocks floated near, though she had wandered
probably between one and two hours, and began to be weary.  She was vexed at her foolishness,
since the ground she had covered, if in a straight line, must inevitably have taken her out
of the wood to some remote village or other; but she had wasted her forces in countermarches;
and now, in much alarm, wondered if she would have to pass the night here.  She stood still
to meditate, and fancied that between the soughing of the wind she heard shuffling footsteps
on the leaves heavier than those of rabbits or hares. Though fearing at first to meet anybody
on the chance of his being a friend, she decided that the fellow night-rambler, even if a poacher,
would not injure her, and that he might possibly be some one sent to search for her.  She accordingly
shouted a rather timid "Hoi!"

The cry was immediately returned by the other person; and Grace running at once in the direction
whence it came beheld an indistinct figure hastening up to her as rapidly.  They were almost
in each other's arms when she recognized in her vis-a-vis the outline and white veil of her
whom she had parted from an hour and a half before--Mrs. Charmond.

"I have lost my way, I have lost my way," cried that lady.  "Oh--is it indeed you? I am so
glad to meet you or anybody.  I have been wandering up and down ever since we parted, and am
nearly dead with terror and misery and fatigue!"

"So am I," said Grace.  "What shall we, shall we do?"

"You won't go away from me?" asked her companion, anxiously.

"No, indeed.  Are you very tired?"

"I can scarcely move, and I am scratched dreadfully about the ankles."

Grace reflected.  "Perhaps, as it is dry under foot, the best thing for us to do would be to
sit down for half an hour, and then start again when we have thoroughly rested.  By walking
straight we must come to a track leading somewhere before the morning."

They found a clump of bushy hollies which afforded a shelter from the wind, and sat down under
it, some tufts of dead fern, crisp and dry, that remained from the previous season forming
a sort of nest for them. But it was cold, nevertheless, on this March night, particularly for
Grace, who with the sanguine prematureness of youth in matters of dress, had considered it
spring-time, and hence was not so warmly clad as Mrs. Charmond, who still wore her winter fur.
But after sitting a while the latter lady shivered no less than Grace as the warmth imparted
by her hasty walking began to go off, and they felt the cold air drawing through the holly
leaves which scratched their backs and shoulders.  Moreover, they could hear some drops of
rain falling on the trees, though none reached the nook in which they had ensconced themselves.

"If we were to cling close together," said Mrs. Charmond, "we should keep each other warm.
But," she added, in an uneven voice, "I suppose you won't come near me for the world!"

"Why not?"

"Because--well, you know."

"Yes.  I will--I don't hate you at all."

They consequently crept up to one another, and being in the dark, lonely and weary, did what
neither had dreamed of doing beforehand, clasped each other closely, Mrs. Charmond's furs consoling
Grace's cold face, and each one's body as she breathed alternately heaving against that of
her companion.

When a few minutes had been spent thus, Mrs. Charmond said, "I am so wretched!" in a heavy,
emotional whisper.

"You are frightened," said Grace, kindly.  "But there is nothing to fear; I know these woods well."

"I am not at all frightened at the wood, but I am at other things."

Mrs. Charmond embraced Grace more and more tightly, and the younger woman could feel her neighbor's
breathings grow deeper and more spasmodic, as though uncontrollable feelings were germinating.

"After I had left you," she went on, "I regretted something I had said. I have to make a confession--I
must make it!" she whispered, brokenly, the instinct to indulge in warmth of sentiment which
had led this woman of passions to respond to Fitzpiers in the first place leading her now to
find luxurious comfort in opening her heart to his wife.  "I said to you I could give him up
without pain or deprivation--that he had only been my pastime.  That was untrue--it was said
to deceive you.  I could not do it without much pain; and, what is more dreadful, I cannot
give him up--even if I would--of myself alone."

"Why? Because you love him, you mean."

Felice Charmond denoted assent by a movement.

"I knew I was right!" said Grace, exaltedly.  "But that should not deter you," she presently
added, in a moral tone.  "Oh, do struggle against it, and you will conquer!"

"You are so simple, so simple!" cried Felice.  "You think, because you guessed my assumed indifference
to him to be a sham, that you know the extremes that people are capable of going to! But a
good deal more may have been going on than you have fathomed with all your insight.  I CANNOT
give him up until he chooses to give up me."

"But surely you are the superior in station and in every way, and the cut must come from you."

"Tchut! Must I tell verbatim, you simple child? Oh, I suppose I must! I shall eat away my heart
if I do not let out all, after meeting you like this and finding how guileless you are." She
thereupon whispered a few words in the girl's ear, and burst into a violent fit of sobbing.

Grace started roughly away from the shelter of the fur, and sprang to her feet.

"Oh, my God!" she exclaimed, thunderstruck at a revelation transcending her utmost suspicion.
"Can it be--can it be!"

She turned as if to hasten away.  But Felice Charmond's sobs came to her ear: deep darkness
circled her about, the funereal trees rocked and chanted their diriges and placebos around
her, and she did not know which way to go.  After a moment of energy she felt mild again, and
turned to the motionless woman at her feet.

"Are you rested?" she asked, in what seemed something like her own voice grown ten years older.

Without an answer Mrs. Charmond slowly rose.

"You mean to betray me!" she said from the bitterest depths of her soul.  "Oh fool, fool I!"

"No," said Grace, shortly.  "I mean no such thing.  But let us be quick now.  We have a serious
undertaking before us.  Think of nothing but going straight on."

They walked on in profound silence, pulling back boughs now growing wet, and treading down
woodbine, but still keeping a pretty straight course.  Grace began to be thoroughly worn out,
and her companion too, when, on a sudden, they broke into the deserted highway at the hill-top
on which the Sherton man had waited for Mrs. Dollery's van.  Grace recognized the spot as soon
as she looked around her.

"How we have got here I cannot tell," she said, with cold civility. "We have made a complete
circuit of Little Hintock. The hazel copse is quite on the other side.  Now we have only to
follow the road."

They dragged themselves onward, turned into the lane, passed the track to Little Hintock, and
so reached the park.

"Here I turn back," said Grace, in the same passionless voice. "You are quite near home."

Mrs. Charmond stood inert, seeming appalled by her late admission.

"I have told you something in a moment of irresistible desire to unburden my soul which all
but a fool would have kept silent as the grave," she said.  "I cannot help it now.  Is it to
be a secret--or do you mean war?"

"A secret, certainly," said Grace, mournfully.  "How can you expect war from such a helpless,
wretched being as I!"

"And I'll do my best not to see him.  I am his slave; but I'll try."

Grace was naturally kind; but she could not help using a small dagger now.

"Pray don't distress yourself," she said, with exquisitely fine scorn. "You may keep him--for
me." Had she been wounded instead of mortified she could not have used the words; but Fitzpiers's
hold upon her heart was slight.

They parted thus and there, and Grace went moodily homeward. Passing Marty's cottage she observed
through the window that the girl was writing instead of chopping as usual, and wondered what
her correspondence could be.  Directly afterwards she met people in search of her, and reached
the house to find all in serious alarm.  She soon explained that she had lost her way, and
her general depression was attributed to exhaustion on that account.

Could she have known what Marty was writing she would have been surprised.

The rumor which agitated the other folk of Hintock had reached the young girl, and she was
penning a letter to Fitzpiers, to tell him that Mrs. Charmond wore her hair.  It was poor Marty's
only card, and she played it, knowing nothing of fashion, and thinking her revelation a fatal
one for a lover.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

It was at the beginning of April, a few days after the meeting between Grace and Mrs. Charmond
in the wood, that Fitzpiers, just returned from London, was travelling from Sherton-Abbas to
Hintock in a hired carriage.  In his eye there was a doubtful light, and the lines of his refined
face showed a vague disquietude.  He appeared now like one of those who impress the beholder
as having suffered wrong in being born.

His position was in truth gloomy, and to his appreciative mind it seemed even gloomier than
it was.  His practice had been slowly dwindling of late, and now threatened to die out altogether,
the irrepressible old Dr. Jones capturing patients up to Fitzpiers's very door.  Fitzpiers
knew only too well the latest and greatest cause of his unpopularity; and yet, so illogical
is man, the second branch of his sadness grew out of a remedial measure proposed for the first--a
letter from Felice Charmond imploring him not to see her again.  To bring about their severance
still more effectually, she added, she had decided during his absence upon almost immediate
departure for the Continent. Bad will, I repeat. As as I'm
concerned, your released would not hurt me none, bounce off the chain mail me high position
of my titles of nobility and my valimiento here and in court. For this next I'm immune. But
you, to take the way you say, (I speak as a companion and friend) not get anything but shock
a little and give your father saloon, whose complaint I leaned formal written for the procedure
... arbitrary charges me. Your father, your good and honest father, came to my court and established
complaint in every way against this girl, by seducing a minor, son of a wealthy family and decent,
with her charms and chicanery. In the discussion we had, he lamented, almost with tears in
his eyes, that were made a lost player, womanizer, who neither study nor could meet you in April
as he and your mother waiting for you to take the administration of the property next year,
ie after marrying the beautiful and virtuous young lady Alquízar, as were committed all for
the frivolous girl, whose love affairs disgrace undoubtedly a young man Count must be before
long.

- "So this is the epitome of the story my father told you? Listen, or contemplated now the reverse
of the medal. There is no such seduction, deception or pumpkins in this business. The girl
is very pretty and I idolized. Why did not correspond to his love? But it Daddy little girl has since
followed the steps, holding, dressing, shoes, celándola, dicking, caring for more and better
than it ever has maintained, clothing, shoe care rounds and none of their daughters. Why?
You wonder what purpose. Only God and he knows it. I do not think bad yet, but just the fact
kidnap when my grandmother just died, the only person who could oppose serious obstacle to achieving
of twisted desires, I suspect that my father does not harbor good intentions ... I relieved and
pleased, however, that whatever the shower of gold that he may pour the her feet will not
get more than what it has achieved so far: bitter hatred. But you, my friend, me good away from
me and deliveries tied hand and foot in power of my father. Will I have to forgive me this bad game?
Never.

- You're unfair, very unfair to your father and me. With him because I did not accede to their
entreaties, but when I'm fully convinced that they were righteous and holy intentions for you,
the family and the same Valdés. Me are unfair, because seeing your father was resolved cut in any
way, no matter the cost, your clandestine relationship with the girl, I decided to lock her in the
Collected for a short time, say, until you get Baccalaureate and marry as God intended and
as appropriate to your class and the wealth of your family. What then, if you think you will
return ... the first love.

Leonardo was silent and thoughtful, and then said feebly: - Bye, Fernando!

This stopped him by the arm and said: - Thou shalt not go that way,
as if we had fought.

Come to my stage: greet my wife and hear my side of the second act
of the opera.

     To alleviate there is some pain balm comparable to good music.

         

CHAPTER VII

The biggest monster of jealousy.

CALDERON

- What are you up you mess with a little boy from the suburbs?, Asked
Rosa to husband still in bed .-- Di, answers, he added codeándole
behind him, because he thought that is to Swedish or asleep.

- I
do not bring me and took me mess with anyone, Rosa, said Don Candido
in his sleep.

- Your own, you do.

I have said, I know for a fact.

- Who told you that story?

- No story is true. You have taken from his home to a girl a few days ago ... The author is not
the case.

- What is Rosa. Some influence in you mightily.

- Then we will clarify that point.

No I mean that you're back at it again ...

- Do you see what I say? Since you have been prepared against me. Your son ...

- Well, now check it killed my son.

- Your son, I say, "continued Don Candido without getting upset, I
was about to commit the greatest of escapades he has committed so far.

I interposed, because at last I'm his father, and I avoided the commission
... You do not want to knock on it, what other recourse I can only
touch her?

Lo, in short, the amount of my old ways.

- I did not stay to hear! "So to prevent the child committing a skull, is the father and gives
a scandal?

- In this case there has been no scandal.

- What! Have you had hidden the thing? Too bad.

See what interest do you have in it.

- No one, in my belief, that of preventing the commission of a real shame for a person that touches
us as closely as is our son.

- What shame? You use some bad words ...

- Time was that Leonardo is chasing a black girl ...

- And how do you know?

- I know for the same reason that you ignore.

- Nothing I say that.

Leonardite is natural, young and handsome, chase girls, as you say. What does not seem natural
to you, old and ugly, you're so aware of the Boy womanly pursuits. Are you envious? Do you want
him to get a monk? Why what's plots?

- Because I'm responsible for their conduct before God and the world.

- What a virtuoso! Would not you were doing the same and even worse when you were their age?

- Maybe he did the same when looking, not worse, at least I do not prick the conscience of have
corrupted any young honest or home.

- You're right: Set yourself apart. But I think the work toilet you take ... I will always
believe that, for women, Leonardite next to you is sucking child.

- Let us recriminations, Rosa, and let's get to what touches us more closely, as parents of
the boy ... The thing is very serious, serious ... Supe ... Not care how, where, when. I knew
I made large purchases of furniture and household gadgets.

Had to spend a fortune. Where has there been? Have you in debt? Do you have won the game? O. ..
Is you, as Bonaz as always, has provided the means?

Don Candido had hit the milestone. Rosa Negate "the loan, have done hidden husband? Tantamount
to discredit the child from her father, always willing to look their faults by the black side.
So even though convinced and mortified by the deception with it had been practiced, preferred to
state the truth and bear the blame for the dissipation famous son.

-
Do you see now, Rosa, said Don Candido without acrimony, the bad result
of blind love some mothers to their children?

Do not you recognize that in some cases it is better to sin with them however hard and soft?
Leonardo asks you money and lend it, because you can not tell no, and because I figure that if
you deny it dies of grief ... And he takes the money, buy furniture, rent home ... What the
hell?

Of course, clearly, to carry it dear. No great insight is needed ... So that, if I advance, bye, studies!
Goodbye school! Goodbye, wedding in November!, Like you and I had agreed, according to him.

- Well is everything you say, but I'm hoping you say where you have hidden the girl.

- The Collected.

It seems to me, watching the race said that the wife remained silent and shook in bed, seems to
me that this was the best and least risky game that could have been chosen to save the boy and
the girl from the precipice of ruin ...

- Yes, said Dona Rosa, do you figure that because you've got the girl
in the Pickups, and everything was arranged and completed?

Know that you have not achieved anything. The child has taken the thing to heart. Love is blind.

-
Who! Don Candido said scornfully. Love, love! Or gout. What he feels that boy's blood boil, fever,
headaches. It has nothing to do with this heart. It will happen. Do not worry.

- You will, eh? Maybe.

But the child is not eating, not sleeping, suffering, suffering, sorrow, crying. I fear a disease
that costs you the feeling.

Yeah, like you do not see, not hear, not what understand, speak as
you speak.

- Put your thing on your part.

To you, who have more influence on him than me, you belong to you comfort him and make him by
trail. Will not you tell him that by the next mail Spain I hope the title of Count of Casa
Gamboa, who has served with grace our August sovereign? Did You?
Maybe the news will be glad.

- Rejoice!

How little you know your son! I gave him the news. And you know what I said? That nobility
bought with the blood of blacks that you and the other Spanish stole in Africa to condemn them to
eternal slavery, was not noble, but infamy, and I looked at the title
as the greatest disgrace ...

- Ah!

The rogue, the rebel, the earless! Don Candido exploded in a paroxysm of indignation. Go if you
boil Creole blood in the veins! It would still be able to trumpet the very early by his father
as arming with slaughter on this island the chaos of the mainland. Y want freedom because they weigh
the yoke! Because they can not stand the tyranny! Work the very lazy and have no time or opportunity
to complain about the best of governments. I I would stick from ear to ear as the mules ...

- No more nonsense and insults, Rosa stopped him bothered. Strips of the Creoles as if my children
and I were in your land. You hate to Havana, why does it hurt to get paid in the same currency?
Leonardite partly right. Deprive him of all tastes and pleasures ... I do not know how not despair.
There he will do everything in their power to get the girl Closure ...

- Like you do not give money, "said Don Candido start, slush, I doubt
that get away with the attempt.

Do not give money, do not give it at random. But as your baby choking is a gift, let's one
of sufficient quality to fill with pride and makes you ashamed of the abyss of degradation to
which proposed decrease.

- What is the gift of hope holding the miracle ...?

- The house of Soler Abreu is removed in raffle sales. Get him, Leonardo alhajémosla when he
marries Elizabeth. They sell for 60,000 dollars.

- Almost the value of a mill.

- The house is worth that money. It is a palace, like no other in Havana. You should not stand
in hairs: this is the salvation of your most beloved son.

My account are the purchase and empowerment of the cage, yours runs the domestication of the
bird has to occupy.

Fixed the plan and distributed the papers, his Don Candido played without delay or difficulty. Doña
Rosa, on the contrary, due to its peculiar character from the first
steps put insurmountable obstacle to the realization of the project.

Entered through a lot in the composition of a haughty Dona Rosa and suspicion to they often
cease to be unjust and unwise in their domestic relationships ... Nobody better Leonardo knew
the weakness of his mother.

As soon as she told him the project conditions domestication, all founded in his resignation to the
possession of Cecilia, decided predispose poking against her husband's jealousy of his wife at
the most. Bastola for which it referred, without naming it, as he had heard from Cecilia, referring
to illegal dealings and Don Candido suspects the young and the old neighborhood for a long time Angel
behind, to the money in them was spending with extravagance or generosity of the old love, the
stranger had always taken interest in the maintenance and welfare
of two women, to the vigilance with which the girl was jealous care
and health elderly, in short, the effective and consistent services
in these dubious businesses morality had lent Montes de Oca.

Each and every one of these reports, along with others already mentioned, had reached the ears
Dona Rosa at different times and through various channels. The relationship of late and rigged
son only served to complement and confirm what she knew by heart or merely suspected.

It appears unnecessary to add that in this case, as in all of its kind, stocked the weed their
malignant effect. Well, that irritated the mother against the father for the alleged continued
violation of conjugal faith, in revenge or retaliation hatched in
secret with the child to be mine to blow up the parapets raised by
Don Candido in defending the honor of Cecilia Valdés.

A Dona Rosa execution committed their money and influence.

To help in the arduous undertaking, it required only three conditions: one, that the child continue
to graduate studies degree in law, another to marry Isabel Ilincheta end of the year, and the
third, to accept, without complaint, the gift of the palace, with that very subject, he did his father.
Everything promised Leonardo plane.

The first step was to request the services of Mary Rule, that nurse
The Tinaja wit, whose guile and talent recognized mother and child
together, Despite the animosity with which they looked.

Prestose it the best wins, both because it was in its nature the
role of conspiracy, since it promised to pay with goods of many evils
received at the hands of the two.

From then after work began on the sap.

There was a real revolution Cecilia entry at the home of the Collected. His youth, their beauty,
their cries, their tears, the very motives of his prison spells assumptions used to seduce a young
white millionaire family from Havana, all attended to inspire curiosity, sympathy or admiration
for women of various colors and conditions fulfilling terms longer
or shorter sentence.

For they were vulgar, and off to be at its heart the sense of dignity staff, they were impossible
to avoid the influence of circumstances whose magic exercise their
empire in this sublunary world while reflecting the sunlight.

Apparently, little could Cecilia earn him their sympathy and outbursts
of admiration for all that were strong enough around him to create
that atmosphere of respect and consideration that contributed relief
from their sentences while in the collection and which after the doors
opened.

The keeper of the sheep was a bachelor derailed green, a sort of puppet
with whom years or penances had tamed human passions.

To this date, only had entered the establishment in charge of women
of low extraction, old, ugly and worn by the vices.

Under conditions very different Cecilia came to increase their numbers.

Perhaps he had sinned but certainly not by vice or evil inclination.

That paid their few years, decent and modest demeanor, his appearance
and pearl diverting their smooth cheeks.

The pain, the shame of being locked up and confused between some
women knowingly of misconduct, was undoubtedly what made her burst
into tears and complaining.

Many and those matters of genuine despite inconsistent with the crime.

So

reasoned the keeper of the House of collections, and without hesitation
declared the champion and Cecilia's friend.

His pleasure was to go after hours to the window of the room that had assigned to surprise her,
in secret, in his demonstrations of feeling, falling more and ignite
it in anger against their persecutors.

Sometimes the chair was in the head and arms resting on the table,
while leaving the tuft of his hair abounds Loose care to cover those
parts of his back which he was quite a veto of looks loose secular
dress.

Sometimes she suddenly lifted her eyes and hands together to heaven
and exclaimed in the most trouble;

- God!

My God! Why blame me I deserve this terrible punishment?

In all these cases was withdrawn to their goal keeper made a basilisk.

In one of those moments of anger philanthropic rained appeared as
Maria de Regla pretending to sell seasonal fruits and preserves, as
business was concerned then.

The man did not want to buy or get caught in a conversation that
could distract him from his bittersweet thoughts.

But this did not abandoned its goal of selling. Expected, on the contrary, stricter rejection.
Said to the sweet tone I used:

- Does it hurt the Lord's head or teeth? (No treatment gave their mercy).

- Nothing hurts me, "he growled.

- I'm glad, because those are the pangs of pain.

Mr See if they want collected fresh fruit or syrup.

- We are not for fruit or candy now. There is also no money at home.

- I trust.

- Go with God and leave me alone.

- Other times bought me sweets and fruits here.

- Not in my time.

When was the fool would often take my place.

- Maybe.

- I do not allow trade with the prey. The regulation prohibits any goings on the net.

- As I have said that the man was as good as the bread with the poor collected.

- You have been deceived. I'm bad, very bad.

- The Lord is not bad. No way! I know him in the face is not.

- Basta. Do not want to gab.

- Okay. The charge, charge. I'll go, but before he did not have the goodness to hear the message
just give me a gentleman to the Lord?

- What message? Dispatches, the man replied rudely after staring at the saleswoman.

- Do you have here Mr. prey to a white girl?

- I have imprisoned anyone. Jailer I'm not, I am a mere custodian of collections, by delegation
the illustrious Bishop Espada y Landa.

- Forgive me sir.

I meant that if there was a white girl contained herein.

- White apparently.

Yes what?

- Well, I tell the gentleman was very interested in this girl.

- What I care about your interest? We will not eat it.

- Never say "I will not drink this water." Because I say is very rich gentleman and is very fond
of the girl.

And lord knows what he is capable of a rich gentleman when is madly
in love and keep you from seeing and talking to his beloved torture.

-
We said goalkeeper more heal quickly.

What do you mean the gentleman that?

- Not much. Wants Mr give the child on their side these oranges (choose six from the most beautiful
of the board), and tell him he is putting much effort and money spent
to remove as soon as this prison.

- Man!, Said the policeman hesitated,
I have not ever done the role of run-see-and tell.

- Come, sir, that
you will not regret.

Sepal: the gentleman is very rich, very grateful and is very much
in love.

Goalkeeper scared, shaky, uncertain, it was a long time standing,
watching, and the black and the oranges.

After he asked huskily through fear or shame:

- What do you call the gentleman?

- The child knows, "said Maria
de Regla, abruptly walking away.

He remained the keeper thoughtful, as if rooted to the bars of the
goal.

Soon we passed the lock to the door, he locked it, and three oranges
in each hand he went into the yard of the House of Recogidas.

There was all that can be filled with illusions of a man in love, and hope to a woman afflicted,
in the brief interview that he had the keeper with Cecilia. There were those of - you. is
my savior. What angel brought you to this poor woman persecuted?
I am innocent. My only crime love is a lot like a young man who died
for me. This has made me the father of the gentleman from who you
talk to me. All his rage against me is because they love him and want
his son. You have mercy on a woman unjustly persecuted.

The doorman
went away another man .-- Who comes up with a girl brought here like
this? - Is asked himself. The devil, but the evil spirit to tempt
and draw from their boxes to the peaceful people. Here I would like
to see the strong men, the same saints. "Resist? It will soften, they
would melt, would be delivered footed into the clutches of Satan.
Will he have the courage to see her mourn, complain and beg to hear
it and not take their part? I will do what it wants. Is clear. And
stay wrong with the Bishop, my protector, will fall from grace, lose
the position I occupy in this house. But what remedy? She is very
cute, cry, and I'm not stick. Damn fruit!

Two or three days later
it returned, and keeper of the collections did not get it wrong. Brought
new claim: that of a private conversation with the prisoner in the
prison. Visits were prohibited inside the house could only speak to
those contained in the presence of the guardian at the gate of the
goal. But Mary Rule argued the point with skill, saying, among other
things, not surprisingly, the porter will help kill an innocent child
sadness, and made complicit in the greatest injustice that had occurred
previously in Havana. That gentleman, lover of the girl, he had very
advanced steps to remove closure, and, of course, exclude from its
gratitude to all those who had oppressed their adored torment. Then
he added, as if suddenly remembering:

- The gentleman gave me for
lord these half-dozen ounces of gold, in case the girl needed something
to eat, or dress, or any craving ...

This last argument ended up
spoiling the rest of virtue or embarrassment of the goalkeeper. Granted
entry. Briefly describe the scene now followed the interview the messenger
with the dam.

María Cecilia Rule found in the same position in which
said had surprised guardian days before, only this time not the hair
that covered part of the back overlooking the entrance to the cell.
Something began to see there's former nurse, who called him greatly
care.

- Jesus! said. What do I see? Is it possible that this child
is the same as I suspected? What things happen in this world!

In
that voice and those incoherent exclamations, Cecilia raised her head
and asked Ringtone unconscious and suffering:

- What do you want?

-
I want to tell me his mercy his first name.

- Cecilia Valdés.

-
Jesus! she cried the black. Itself than I expected! Like a dream.
You know his mercy Who painted the crescent?

- What crescent?

-
The bears his mercy in the shoulder (with the index touching the girl's
left).

- This is not painting, is a mole, or rather, a brand I have
been there as a result a blow to my childhood.

- No, if your worship
is really, really Cecilia Valdés I know, that's not the moon, or hit
mark: crescent is the grandmother of his mercy he painted and indigo
needle before to throw it into the Real Casa Cuna.

- Oh! Mother never
told me such thing.

- I know because that was the signal that I got
to recognize among the other girls the Royal Baby.

- Who is you who
knows so much about me?

- Is it possible that your worship does not
know me yet? Should remember me.

- No, indeed.

- Well, I gave suck
to their mercy, first in the Real Casa Cuna, and then for about a
year, staying with the grandmother of his mercy, when she lived in
the alley in San Juan of God.  The horseman came on, and the youth,
whose eyes were as keen as telescopes, to his great relief recognized the doctor.

As Melbury surmised, Fitzpiers had in the darkness taken Blossom for Darling, and he had not
discovered his mistake when he came up opposite the boy, though he was somewhat surprised at
the liveliness of his usually placid mare.  The only other pair of eyes on the spot whose vision
was keen as the young carter's were those of the horse; and, with that strongly conservative
objection to the unusual which animals show, Blossom, on eying the collar under the tree--quite
invisible to Fitzpiers--exercised none of the patience of the older horse, but shied sufficiently
to unseat so second-rate an equestrian as the surgeon.

He fell, and did not move, lying as Melbury afterwards found him. The boy ran away, salving
his conscience for the desertion by thinking how vigorously he would spread the alarm of the
accident when he got to Hintock--which he uncompromisingly did, incrusting the skeleton event
with a load of dramatic horrors.

Grace had returned, and the fly hired on her account, though not by her husband, at the Crown
Hotel, Shottsford-Forum, had been paid for and dismissed.  The long drive had somewhat revived
her, her illness being a feverish intermittent nervousness which had more to do with mind than
body, and she walked about her sitting-room in something of a hopeful mood.  Mrs. Melbury had
told her as soon as she arrived that her husband had returned from London.  He had gone out,
she said, to see a patient, as she supposed, and he must soon be back, since he had had no
dinner or tea.  Grace would not allow her mind to harbor any suspicion of his whereabouts,
and her step-mother said nothing of Mrs. Charmond's rumored sorrows and plans of departure.

So the young wife sat by the fire, waiting silently.  She had left Hintock in a turmoil of
feeling after the revelation of Mrs. Charmond, and had intended not to be at home when her
husband returned.  But she had thought the matter over, and had allowed her father's influence
to prevail and bring her back; and now somewhat regretted that Edgar's arrival had preceded hers.

By-and-by Mrs. Melbury came up-stairs with a slight air of flurry and abruptness.

"I have something to tell--some bad news," she said.  "But you must not be alarmed, as it is
not so bad as it might have been. Edgar has been thrown off his horse.  We don't think he is
hurt much.  It happened in the wood the other side of Nellcombe Bottom, where 'tis said the
ghosts of the brothers walk."

She went on to give a few of the particulars, but none of the invented horrors that had been
communicated by the boy.  "I thought it better to tell you at once," she added, "in case he
should not be very well able to walk home, and somebody should bring him."

Mrs. Melbury really thought matters much worse than she represented, and Grace knew that she
thought so.  She sat down dazed for a few minutes, returning a negative to her step-mother's
inquiry if she could do anything for her.  "But please go into the bedroom," Grace said, on
second thoughts, "and see if all is ready there--in case it is serious." Mrs. Melbury thereupon
called Grammer, and they did as directed, supplying the room with everything they could think
of for the accommodation of an injured man.

Nobody was left in the lower part of the house.  Not many minutes passed when Grace heard a
knock at the door--a single knock, not loud enough to reach the ears of those in the bedroom.
She went to the top of the stairs and said, faintly, "Come up," knowing that the door stood,
as usual in such houses, wide open.

Retreating into the gloom of the broad landing she saw rise up the stairs a woman whom at first
she did not recognize, till her voice revealed her to be Suke Damson, in great fright and sorrow.
A streak of light from the partially closed door of Grace's room fell upon her face as she
came forward, and it was drawn and pale.

"Oh, Miss Melbury--I would say Mrs. Fitzpiers," she said, wringing her hands.  "This terrible
news.  Is he dead? Is he hurted very bad? Tell me; I couldn't help coming; please forgive me,
Miss Melbury--Mrs. Fitzpiers I would say!"

Grace sank down on the oak chest which stood on the landing, and put her hands to her now flushed
face and head.  Could she order Suke Damson down-stairs and out of the house? Her husband might
be brought in at any moment, and what would happen? But could she order this genuinely grieved
woman away?

There was a dead silence of half a minute or so, till Suke said, "Why don't ye speak? Is he
here? Is he dead? If so, why can't I see him--would it be so very wrong?"

Before Grace had answered somebody else came to the door below--a foot-fall light as a roe's.
There was a hurried tapping upon the panel, as if with the impatient tips of fingers whose
owner thought not whether a knocker were there or no.  Without a pause, and possibly guided
by the stray beam of light on the landing, the newcomer ascended the staircase as the first
had done.  Grace was sufficiently visible, and the lady, for a lady it was, came to her side.

"I could make nobody hear down-stairs," said Felice Charmond, with lips whose dryness could
almost be heard, and panting, as she stood like one ready to sink on the floor with distress.
"What is--the matter--tell me the worst! Can he live?" She looked at Grace imploringly, without
perceiving poor Suke, who, dismayed at such a presence, had shrunk away into the shade.

Mrs. Charmond's little feet were covered with mud; she was quite unconscious of her appearance
now.  "I have heard such a dreadful report," she went on; "I came to ascertain the truth of
it.  Is he--killed?"

"She won't tell us--he's dying--he's in that room!" burst out Suke, regardless of consequences,
as she heard the distant movements of Mrs. Melbury and Grammer in the bedroom at the end of
the passage.

"Where?" said Mrs. Charmond; and on Suke pointing out the direction, she made as if to go thither.

Grace barred the way.  "He is not there," she said.  "I have not seen him any more than you.
I have heard a report only--not so bad as you think.  It must have been exaggerated to you."

"Please do not conceal anything--let me know all!" said Felice, doubtingly.

"You shall know all I know--you have a perfect right to know--who can have a better than either
of you?" said Grace, with a delicate sting which was lost upon Felice Charmond now.  "I repeat,
I have only heard a less alarming account than you have heard; how much it means, and how little,
I cannot say.  I pray God that it means not much--in common humanity.  You probably pray the
same--for other reasons."

She regarded them both there in the dim light a while.

They stood dumb in their trouble, not stinging back at her; not heeding her mood.  A tenderness
spread over Grace like a dew.  It was well, very well, conventionally, to address either one
of them in the wife's regulation terms of virtuous sarcasm, as woman, creature, or thing, for
losing their hearts to her husband.  But life, what was it, and who was she?  She had, like
the singer of the psalm of Asaph, been plagued and chastened all the day long; but could she,
by retributive words, in order to please herself--the individual--"offend against the generation,"
as he would not?

"He is dying, perhaps," blubbered Suke Damson, putting her apron to her eyes.

In their gestures and faces there were anxieties, affection, agony of heart, all for a man
who had wronged them--had never really behaved towards either of them anyhow but selfishly.
Neither one but would have wellnigh sacrificed half her life to him, even now. The tears which
his possibly critical situation could not bring to her eyes surged over at the contemplation
of these fellow-women. She turned to the balustrade, bent herself upon it, and wept.

Thereupon Felice began to cry also, without using her handkerchief, and letting the tears run
down silently.  While these three poor women stood together thus, pitying another though most
to be pitied themselves, the pacing of a horse or horses became audible in the court, and in
a moment Melbury's voice was heard calling to his stableman.  Grace at once started up, ran
down the stairs and out into the quadrangle as her father crossed it towards the door.  "Father,
what is the matter with him?" she cried.

"Who--Edgar?" said Melbury, abruptly.  "Matter? Nothing.  What, my dear, and have you got home
safe? Why, you are better already! But you ought not to be out in the air like this."

"But he has been thrown off his horse!"

"I know; I know.  I saw it.  He got up again, and walked off as well as ever.  A fall on the
leaves didn't hurt a spry fellow like him.  He did not come this way," he added, significantly.
"I suppose he went to look for his horse.  I tried to find him, but could not.  But after seeing
him go away under the trees I found the horse, and have led it home for safety.  So he must
walk. Now, don't you stay out here in this night air."

She returned to the house with her father.  When she had again ascended to the landing and
to her own rooms beyond it was a great relief to her to find that both Petticoat the First
and Petticoat the Second of her Bien-aime had silently disappeared.  They had, in all probability,
heard the words of her father, and departed with their anxieties relieved.

Presently her parents came up to Grace, and busied themselves to see that she was comfortable.
Perceiving soon that she would prefer to be left alone they went away.

Grace waited on.  The clock raised its voice now and then, but her husband did not return.
At her father's usual hour for retiring he again came in to see her.  "Do not stay up," she
said, as soon as he entered.  "I am not at all tired.  I will sit up for him."

"I think it will be useless, Grace," said Melbury, slowly.

"Why?"

"I have had a bitter quarrel with him; and on that account I hardly think he will return to-night."

"A quarrel?  Was that after the fall seen by the boy?"

Melbury nodded an affirmative, without taking his eyes off the candle.

"Yes; it was as we were coming home together," he said.

Something had been swelling up in Grace while her father was speaking. "How could you want
to quarrel with him?" she cried, suddenly.  "Why could you not let him come home quietly if
he were inclined to?  He is my husband; and now you have married me to him surely you need
not provoke him unnecessarily.  First you induce me to accept him, and then you do things that
divide us more than we should naturally be divided!"

"How can you speak so unjustly to me, Grace?" said Melbury, with indignant sorrow.  "I divide
you from your husband, indeed!  You little think--"

He was inclined to say more--to tell her the whole story of the encounter, and that the provocation
he had received had lain entirely in hearing her despised.  But it would have greatly distressed
her, and he forbore.  "You had better lie down.  You are tired," he said, soothingly.  "Good-night."

The household went to bed, and a silence fell upon the dwelling, broken only by the occasional
skirr of a halter in Melbury's stables.  Despite her father's advice Grace still waited up.
But nobody came.

It was a critical time in Grace's emotional life that night.  She thought of her husband a
good deal, and for the nonce forgot Winterborne.

"How these unhappy women must have admired Edgar!" she said to herself. "How attractive he
must be to everybody; and, indeed, he is attractive." The possibility is that, piqued by rivalry,
these ideas might have been transformed into their corresponding emotions by a show of the
least reciprocity in Fitzpiers.  There was, in truth, a love-bird yearning to fly from her
heart; and it wanted a lodging badly.

But no husband came.  The fact was that Melbury had been much mistaken about the condition
of Fitzpiers.  People do not fall headlong on stumps of underwood with impunity.  Had the old
man been able to watch Fitzpiers narrowly enough, he would have observed that on rising and
walking into the thicket he dropped blood as he went; that he had not proceeded fifty yards
before he showed signs of being dizzy, and, raising his hands to his head, reeled and fell down.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

Grace was not the only one who watched and meditated in Hintock that night.  Felice Charmond
was in no mood to retire to rest at a customary hour; and over her drawing-room fire at the
Manor House she sat as motionless and in as deep a reverie as Grace in her little apartment
at the homestead.

Having caught ear of Melbury's intelligence while she stood on the landing at his house, and
been eased of much of her mental distress, her sense of personal decorum returned upon her
with a rush.  She descended the stairs and left the door like a ghost, keeping close to the
walls of the building till she got round to the gate of the quadrangle, through which she noiselessly
passed almost before Grace and her father had finished their discourse. Suke Damson had thought
it well to imitate her superior in this respect, and, descending the back stairs as Felice
descended the front, went out at the side door and home to her cottage.

Once outside Melbury's gates Mrs. Charmond ran with all her speed to the Manor House, without
stopping or turning her head, and splitting her thin boots in her haste.  She entered her own
dwelling, as she had emerged from it, by the drawing-room window. In other circumstances she
would have felt some timidity at undertaking such an unpremeditated excursion alone; but her
anxiety for another had cast out her fear for herself.

Everything in her drawing-room was just as she had left it--the candles still burning, the
casement closed, and the shutters gently pulled to, so as to hide the state of the window from
the cursory glance of a servant entering the apartment.  She had been gone about three-quarters
of an hour by the clock, and nobody seemed to have discovered her absence.  Tired in body but
tense in mind, she sat down, palpitating, round-eyed, bewildered at what she had done.

She had been betrayed by affrighted love into a visit which, now that the emotion instigating
it had calmed down under her belief that Fitzpiers was in no danger, was the saddest surprise
to her. This was how she had set about doing her best to escape her passionate bondage to him!
Somehow, in declaring to Grace and to herself the unseemliness of her infatuation, she had
grown a convert to its irresistibility.  If Heaven would only give her strength; but Heaven
never did! One thing was indispensable; she must go away from Hintock if she meant to withstand
further temptation.  The struggle was too wearying, too hopeless, while she remained.  It was
but a continual capitulation of conscience to what she dared not name.

By degrees, as she sat, Felice's mind--helped perhaps by the anticlimax of learning that her
lover was unharmed after all her fright about him--grew wondrously strong in wise resolve.
For the moment she was in a mood, in the words of Mrs. Elizabeth Montagu, "to run mad with
discretion;" and was so persuaded that discretion lay in departure that she wished to set about
going that very minute.  Jumping up from her seat, she began to gather together some small
personal knick-knacks scattered about the room, to feel that preparations were really in train.

While moving here and there she fancied that she heard a slight noise out-of-doors, and stood
still.  Surely it was a tapping at the window. A thought entered her mind, and burned her cheek.
He had come to that window before; yet was it possible that he should dare to do so now! All
the servants were in bed, and in the ordinary course of affairs she would have retired also.
Then she remembered that on stepping in by the casement and closing it, she had not fastened
the window-shutter, so that a streak of light from the interior of the room might have revealed
her vigil to an observer on the lawn.  How all things conspired against her keeping faith with
Grace!

The tapping recommenced, light as from the bill of a little bird; her illegitimate hope overcame
her vow; she went and pulled back the shutter, determining, however, to shake her head at him
and keep the casement securely closed.

What she saw outside might have struck terror into a heart stouter than a helpless woman's
at midnight.  In the centre of the lowest pane of the window, close to the glass, was a human
face, which she barely recognized as the face of Fitzpiers.  It was surrounded with the darkness
of the night without, corpse-like in its pallor, and covered with blood.  As disclosed in the
square area of the pane it met her frightened eyes like a replica of the Sudarium of St. Veronica.

He moved his lips, and looked at her imploringly.  Her rapid mind pieced together in an instant
a possible concatenation of events which might have led to this tragical issue.  She unlatched
the casement with a terrified hand, and bending down to where he was crouching, pressed her
face to his with passionate solicitude. She assisted him into the room without a word, to do
which it was almost necessary to lift him bodily.  Quickly closing the window and fastening
the shutters, she bent over him breathlessly.

"Are you hurt much--much?" she cried, faintly.  "Oh, oh, how is this!"

"Rather much--but don't be frightened," he answered in a difficult whisper, and turning himself
to obtain an easier position if possible. "A little water, please."

She ran across into the dining-room, and brought a bottle and glass, from which he eagerly
drank.  He could then speak much better, and with her help got upon the nearest couch.

"Are you dying, Edgar?" she said.  "Do speak to me!"

"I am half dead," said Fitzpiers.  "But perhaps I shall get over it....It is chiefly loss of
blood."

"But I thought your fall did not hurt you," said she.  "Who did this?"

"Felice--my father-in-law!...I have crawled to you more than a mile on my hands and knees--God,
I thought I should never have got here!...I have come to you--be-cause you are the only friend--I
have in the world now....I can never go back to Hintock--never--to the roof of the Melburys!
Not poppy nor mandragora will ever medicine this bitter feud!...If I were only well again--"

"Let me bind your head, now that you have rested."

"Yes--but wait a moment--it has stopped bleeding, fortunately, or I should be a dead man before
now.  While in the wood I managed to make a tourniquet of some half-pence and my handkerchief,
as well as I could in the dark....But listen, dear Felice! Can you hide me till I am well?
Whatever comes, I can be seen in Hintock no more. My practice is nearly gone, you know--and
after this I would not care to recover it if I could."

By this time Felice's tears began to blind her.  Where were now her discreet plans for sundering
their lives forever? To administer to him in his pain, and trouble, and poverty, was her single
thought.  The first step was to hide him, and she asked herself where.  A place occurred to
her mind.

She got him some wine from the dining-room, which strengthened him much.  Then she managed
to remove his boots, and, as he could now keep himself upright by leaning upon her on one side
and a walking-stick on the other, they went thus in slow march out of the room and up the stairs.
At the top she took him along a gallery, pausing whenever he required rest, and thence up a
smaller staircase to the least used part of the house, where she unlocked a door.  Within was
a lumber-room, containing abandoned furniture of all descriptions, built up in piles which
obscured the light of the windows, and formed between them nooks and lairs in which a person
would not be discerned even should an eye gaze in at the door.  The articles were mainly those
that had belonged to the previous owner of the house, and had been bought in by the late Mr.
Charmond at the auction; but changing fashion, and the tastes of a young wife, had caused them
to be relegated to this dungeon.

Here Fitzpiers sat on the floor against the wall till she had hauled out materials for a bed,
which she spread on the floor in one of the aforesaid nooks.  She obtained water and a basin,
and washed the dried blood from his face and hands; and when he was comfortably reclining,
fetched food from the larder. 

And seeing that, he ordered all his people together with him that this was, he would say more
than fifty thousand men of war, and these were the neighboring towns were Messrs. to give him,
if people had that as they saw the crowd of people for Inca Yupanqui came, and as he had been of
help, lanzáronse them with all their people to help him, with people who craves leave for Inca
Yupanqui, [t] ANSI given for these neighbors. And they say that the battle had just given to Uscovilca,
and victory there by Inca Yupanqui Viracocha people that you invest, then he disappeared and
did not see it most outstanding fifty or sixty thousand men, who were those who mixed their
neighbors between people who have heard.

And making people pool their Inca Yupanqui, ordered a favorable answer before all the spoil
of battle, taking the best thing that dello paresció, to sacrifice dello Viracocha by the
favor and give him victory of his enemies, and all the rest of dispossession gave é distributed
to all nations, according to their quality and services. And that was known by the roundness and
district this city the great splendor of the Lord and knew how to gratify the services, there
in all round great satisfaction, and so they will come many chiefs and people to be I offer
all parts and have the Lord.

And while Inca Yupanqui in this way and have heard, a messenger came to him a captain his,
that this was in the custody of the city, two miles of it, trying to know his enemies what they
were doing on the board do it together, for which he sent him to say, that masters who escaped
the battle fled Uscovilca Matos to do, now you have heard, Xaquixaguana orchestras and redone in
natural and confederates with her, and that of their land I had been a lot of people and relief,
and that ansimismo arrived there were already four other Uscovilca captains Paucaray that he will
discover winters Condesuyo provinces é Andesuyo, which history has told you, that as we were
all together, they left another daily in the morning to give him
battle, and to avenge the death of his master Uscovilca.

Known by the new Inca Yupanqui, ordered three good friends and to the chiefs and gentlemen in his
court and had been service, which then together the people of war and the right to bring forth
out of the field, each with their weapons, and that included all one by one. And removed and
counted, they found the number one hundred thousand men of war, which he had gathered people for the
great reputation of Se released. And they say that the enemies who were about two hundred miles men.
And thus, Inca Yupanqui sent four squadrons that were made this her people, sending each chief
lord of the Indians who were there, were leaders of their people, and so scattered, [Name?] By
generals of the three companies to his three good friends, taking for himself the one of them,
and they provide all the necessary weapons, ordered to march his field in search of his enemies
who, as they knew they were coming out of Cuzco, turned about to return Xaquixaguana to where
he waited. And the Inca Yupanqui with his people, the day of battle, as he saw the sight of
their enemies, and break and front with them, say that again face back to see his people and
squads, which were divided and each by itself [And] say that so many people saw him at that time
had arrived to help him, which have failed, and his enemies afrontóse took them in half and
giving them everywhere that was so cruel and so fierce the battle, which began already high sun,
it would be to When ten, according to them they say, and he was known Vespers della victory by
Inca Yupanqui, where they were killed by the Inca Yupanqui more than thirty thousand men, and
Chance, who were the enemy, was no man to life, among whom were that
the natives had gone Xaquixaguana, and had made censering [31] the
hair.

And called the victory and defeated the battle, they parted to one side all of Xaquixaguana,
and everyone went in front of Inca Yupanqui, and echáronsele by land, to which the Inca Yupanqui
wanted to kill to have seen the death of their own. Inca Yupanqui it defended himself, saying he
should not kill, if the Chancas had been found, it would for being the gasket in the ground, and
they could not do anything, and they were saying ansímismo the same words and gave the same satisfaction.
And then sent Inca Yupanqui, that because were dried apricots, then they were shorn her hair
and so they themselves were shorn all, seeing the will of the Inca and seeing them to worship
in it, and brought Becausethe Inca Yupanqui and Cuzco was twirling ride. And this was done,
commanded them that they were all his people, and to live in peace, and he ordered his captains
not consenting to aquesta of Xaquixaguana they should be made no
anger or being taken, any thing, and if anything of their estates
in that they were taken spoil, then the hiciesen return.

And then ordered that all prisoners were brought before him, to whom, as there were, asked what
had been the cause, provided that, was his great power, which hiciesen battle it again? And
still there among the prisoners there were incurred the Uscovilca four captains who went to discover,
as history has told you, [Said, responded] that the cause that moved them to the board that
they did in giving battle, which was to have seen his fortune was great in the days that had
gone é land they had conquered, giving reason for the battles there and in such recuentros day
each of them had been, and that none of them had never been unfortunately but had always been victorious,
and how it had acaescido them, having to always his victory was on foot, who had wanted to give
this battle, thinking that restore loss of their Lord, and avenge his death. In reply Inca Yupanqui,
who had looked wrong, and that if they were men of understanding, which were to presume that
if they had been victory for the land that they said they had gone, they had to consider that
had been in their Lord Uscovilca chance that in such demand had winters, and as hobiesen they
saw and learned that his Lord was defeated and dead, who had presumably I was finished and
the chance, and that he did not already have them, and that they were é mirasen punished and
others hear it, that this place would be punished them and all other: and again because they
were not [to] make people, which to him were uneasy and cause them that other orchestras will be
found innocent in such cases where they lost lives, as had been very many of them [to] the
junta had done together, which at that site would be punished. And thus, he sent them to bring
before him, and that the site would do the battle, and for hobiese della memory, in the presence
of all its field should command drive many clubs which were hanged, and after seasoned [hanged]
their heads were cut and placed on top of the sticks, and their bodies were burned there and made
powders, and from the highest hills were dispersed through the air, desto hobiesen that memory.
And thus it was ordered that none dared to bury any body of the enemy that longs had died in battle,
because they were eaten by foxes and birds and worms [bones] of such views were there all the time.
All this was done usually in the way that you heard.

And it finished, he ordered Inca Yupanqui was collected all the spoil
and gold jewelry silver in the plunder that had been there, all of
which was dated, and brought in front of and seen by him, ordered
ANSI time as it was, it brought into the city of Cuzco, where the
divide and give thought to their friends.

All of which was eagerly taken to him and snapped together thus for the city of Cuzco, where,
where it was, just gave and shared the spoils to their own, giving each one his paresció that
was enough and according to the quality of person. And that made and distributed, ordered his
clothes and big wins in the city had, [and] of other provisions, ordered (so) that brought him
there was a certain amount, which parescia to him that all were enough, all of which brought
ANSI, he commanded his captains that divided among all his people, all of which was distributed.

And
these grants and others made very many more than he did to his captains, who were sent to
their land to rest, and thanked him for the favor and help they had given, and so he went all,
and Inca Yupanqui was in town with his family. É while Se flashed the these gentlemen for going
to their land, they begged him that wanted to receive me under his
protection and such mercy and its vassals, and that he wanted to take
the fringe of the state and be of Inca all of which are agradesció
Inca Yupanqui and answered them that this was his father alive and
Lord, and it was not fair that while his father lived, he would take
the fringe of the State, that if this was there, that was Becausethe
was captain of his father, and begged them both that he did, it was
the one, from there, I long as they were, they were to do his father
was and respected him and do what they command them as such he was
Lord, and they said would do so.

É the other was, that they had to him by such a friend and brother, and that each and when that
he will be shipped to beg them, which they did, and they said they had no other Lord but he was,
and as such to their vassals, they could do that was good to him and he thanked him.

And thus, the left [32], and Inca Yupanqui stayed in the city, and such gentlemen caciques
went from there do Viracocha Inca was right, and after you have done your due compliance, as
Inca Yupanqui had commanded him, told him how the winters Inca Yupanqui there for them to see
what was served that they serve him, and saw them as Inca Viracocha front of him and such a multitude
of lords and so much power, much of it rejoiced because Dell had this great need for favoresciesen
him with some much of his income to build that people there wanted to do: and told them that
they were very welcome, é arose from his seat and embraced them all and it became to sit in his
chair, and commanded them to all that longs to sit down, and commanded them to put many glasses
of chicha, and gave them to drink; and then they brought out a large amount of coca, an herb
prized that they always bring in mouth, which tell the story along
grass.

And thus divided between those gentlemen, Viracocha rose standing, [and] considering that as
your child masters those invia and they both loved him and wanted him as Lord, it was just
that he ansimismo it will encouraged, we did some prayer, by which he in turn agradescia them
what he and his son had done, and already knew and had heard that he had been up there Lord
of Cuzco, é he had gotten off to do so for reasons that moved him, and that Inca Yupanqui then
on, his son, was to be Lord in the city of Cuzco, and that to him obey and respect, such as their
Lord, and from there he Desesti logo and real fringe and put it on the head of his son Inca
Yupanqui. All of which is heard by the lords, stood up, and one by one went to him and gave him
great thanks, and showed that rescibian large grant them the fact of such waiver of such dignity
and give your son Inca Yupanqui, which they both loved é wanted by the Lord, and this fact,
it turned to sit.

Viracocha Inca and begged them, that because he wanted there in the Peñol do was build a people,
and that this had need of your help and people, he begged them who had them well to give that
assistance, to which the gentlemen replied that they had come there so that he could see what
they could do him some service, as Lord Inca Yupanqui had commanded him: and that this and any
other thing he wanted was to send ready for what to do, to tell them the time and wanted to
start the month in which [to] do its work for them to invest their principal and Indians there
that they might understand the how and hiciesen of such buildings, and he, meanwhile, give the trace
of such people, and make hiciese clay figure of such buildings, they will inviarian teachers
who knew there doing good ANSI stonework as chelate the way I wanted. And his son Viracocha
(So) was grateful to them all, and then sent out many things, as
they were deep and suitcases of cocaine, and certain pieces of fine
clothes and other things between them very valuable; all of which
were brought in front of him, and being, he mesmo there got their
hands and distributed to those men and this fact, he commanded them
to drink, and that they be provided himself distributed a certain
amount of coca.

And this fact, Viracocha Inca stood up and thanked them the will and love to him and his son
and had showed him, and said the month and time they had to send his Indians and people to build
their people, and so he, Mr. rose on foot, and was staying with him in winter, and that they had,
they made their compliance, and so he will leave of him, where we will leave, and talk of Inca Yupanqui.

These
gentlemen were coming out of where Inca Yupanqui chiefs was, and went to do Viracocha Inca
was, as history has told you, and Inca Yupanqui left alone in the city their own, after having
rested two days, they had already parescióle idleness, E had recreation taken by the exercise of
his person, and so he came out one day in the city tomorrow Cuzco, é carrying the gentlemen
who had him there, he walked all that day land around the city were, and so did another the next
day, [and] after the well have seen and watched, saw the poor distribution é art that while
there his father was they had. The third day, also went looking ansímismo, together with the
gentlemen, the site where the city of Cuzco was founded, all of which, or as dello were swamps
and maniantales, as history has told you, and the houses of the inhabitants were della é thatched
small and poorly built and no proportion of street art that people had; ANSI well as in the
present day near this city a village called Cayaucachi was At that time the houses and people that
now is the great city of Cuzco.

And Inca Yupanqui saw too badly this town of Cuzco, land ansímismo é Around the crops that were
parescióle, seeing that he had time and a great rig for the new rebuilt,
and that first house in the village hiciese nor the distribution of
land, it would be okay and to build a house in the sun, in whose house
verifications and was wearing a package in place and revere the sun
do hiciesen sacrifices because, although they have there is one who
is the Maker, whom they called Viracocha Pachayachachic, says maker
the world, and they have it made the sun and all that is raised in
heaven and earth, as we have heard; caresciendo of letters of understanding
and being blind in the know, almost many variants on this at all and
everything, which sometimes have the sun by maker, and sometimes say
that the Viracocha, and for the most part, the whole earth and every
province della, as the Devil brings you befuddled, and each party
told them they showed thousand lies and deceptions, and so they brought
them deceived and blind, and in such places do ANSI Vian will they
placed stones in place, whom they revered and worshiped.

And as I say sometimes it was the sun, and to others elsewhere said it was the moon, and to others
that it was their God and Maker, E to others it was their fire that the heat and light, that
they crave é would see the volcanoes of Arequipa [33] in other parts said it was the Lord
who had given Being the world, and was called Pachacamac, he says, Giver of being the world,
and so he's brought, as I have said, deceived and blind.
  In this Melbury had not written beyond his
belief.  But he very much stretched the facts in adding that the legal formalities for dissolving
her union were practically settled.  The truth was that on the arrival of the doctor's letter
poor Melbury had been much agitated, and could with difficulty be prevented by Beaucock from
returning to her bedside.  What was the use of his rushing back to Hintock? Beaucock had asked
him.  The only thing that could do her any good was a breaking of the bond.  Though he had
not as yet had an interview with the eminent solicitor they were about to consult, he was on
the point of seeing him; and the case was clear enough.  Thus the simple Melbury, urged by
his parental alarm at her danger by the representations of his companion, and by the doctor's
letter, had yielded, and sat down to tell her roundly that she was virtually free.

"And you'd better write also to the gentleman," suggested Beaucock, who, scenting notoriety
and the germ of a large practice in the case, wished to commit Melbury to it irretrievably;
to effect which he knew that nothing would be so potent as awakening the passion of Grace for
Winterborne, so that her father might not have the heart to withdraw from his attempt to make
her love legitimate when he discovered that there were difficulties in the way.

The nervous, impatient Melbury was much pleased with the idea of "starting them at once," as
he called it.  To put his long-delayed reparative scheme in train had become a passion with
him now.  He added to the letter addressed to his daughter a passage hinting that she ought
to begin to encourage Winterborne, lest she should lose him altogether; and he wrote to Giles
that the path was virtually open for him at last.  Life was short, he declared; there were
slips betwixt the cup and the lip; her interest in him should be reawakened at once, that all
might be ready when the good time came for uniting them.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

At these warm words Winterborne was not less dazed than he was moved in heart.  The novelty
of the avowal rendered what it carried with it inapprehensible by him in its entirety.

Only a few short months ago completely estranged from this family--beholding Grace going to
and fro in the distance, clothed with the alienating radiance of obvious superiority, the wife
of the then popular and fashionable Fitzpiers, hopelessly outside his social boundary down
to so recent a time that flowers then folded were hardly faded yet--he was now asked by that
jealously guarding father of hers to take courage--to get himself ready for the day when he
should be able to claim her.

The old times came back to him in dim procession.  How he had been snubbed; how Melbury had
despised his Christmas party; how that sweet, coy Grace herself had looked down upon him and
his household arrangements, and poor Creedle's contrivances!

Well, he could not believe it.  Surely the adamantine barrier of marriage with another could
not be pierced like this! It did violence to custom.  Yet a new law might do anything.  But
was it at all within the bounds of probability that a woman who, over and above her own attainments,
had been accustomed to those of a cultivated professional man, could ever be the wife of such
as he?

Since the date of his rejection he had almost grown to see the reasonableness of that treatment.
He had said to himself again and again that her father was right; that the poor ceorl, Giles
Winterborne, would never have been able to make such a dainty girl happy.  Yet, now that she
had stood in a position farther removed from his own than at first, he was asked to prepare
to woo her. He was full of doubt.

Nevertheless, it was not in him to show backwardness.  To act so promptly as Melbury desired
him to act seemed, indeed, scarcely wise, because of the uncertainty of events.  Giles knew
nothing of legal procedure, but he did know that for him to step up to Grace as a lover before
the bond which bound her was actually dissolved was simply an extravagant dream of her father's
overstrained mind. He pitied Melbury for his almost childish enthusiasm, and saw that the aging
man must have suffered acutely to be weakened to this unreasoning desire.

Winterborne was far too magnanimous to harbor any cynical conjecture that the timber-merchant,
in his intense affection for Grace, was courting him now because that young lady, when disunited,
would be left in an anomalous position, to escape which a bad husband was better than none.
He felt quite sure that his old friend was simply on tenterhooks of anxiety to repair the almost
irreparable error of dividing two whom Nature had striven to join together in earlier days,
and that in his ardor to do this he was oblivious of formalities. The cautious supervision
of his past years had overleaped itself at last.  Hence, Winterborne perceived that, in this
new beginning, the necessary care not to compromise Grace by too early advances must be exercised
by himself.

Perhaps Winterborne was not quite so ardent as heretofore.  There is no such thing as a stationary
love: men are either loving more or loving less.  But Giles himself recognized no decline in
his sense of her dearness.  If the flame did indeed burn lower now than when he had fetched
her from Sherton at her last return from school, the marvel was small.  He had been laboring
ever since his rejection and her marriage to reduce his former passion to a docile friendship,
out of pure regard to its expediency; and their separation may have helped him to a partial
success.

A week and more passed, and there was no further news of Melbury. But the effect of the intelligence
he had already transmitted upon the elastic-nerved daughter of the woods had been much what
the old surgeon Jones had surmised.  It had soothed her perturbed spirit better than all the
opiates in the pharmacopoeia.  She had slept unbrokenly a whole night and a day.  The "new
law" was to her a mysterious, beneficent, godlike entity, lately descended upon earth, that
would make her as she once had been without trouble or annoyance.  Her position fretted her,
its abstract features rousing an aversion which was even greater than her aversion to the personality
of him who had caused it.  It was mortifying, productive of slights, undignified.  Him she
could forget; her circumstances she had always with her.

She saw nothing of Winterborne during the days of her recovery; and perhaps on that account
her fancy wove about him a more romantic tissue than it could have done if he had stood before
her with all the specks and flaws inseparable from corporeity.  He rose upon her memory as
the fruit-god and the wood-god in alternation; sometimes leafy, and smeared with green lichen,
as she had seen him among the sappy boughs of the plantations; sometimes cider-stained, and
with apple-pips in the hair of his arms, as she had met him on his return from cider-making
in White Hart Vale, with his vats and presses beside him.  In her secret heart she almost approximated
to her father's enthusiasm in wishing to show Giles once for all how she still regarded him.
The question whether the future would indeed bring them together for life was a standing wonder
with her.  She knew that it could not with any propriety do so just yet.  But reverently believing
in her father's sound judgment and knowledge, as good girls are wont to do, she remembered
what he had written about her giving a hint to Winterborne lest there should be risk in delay,
and her feelings were not averse to such a step, so far as it could be done without danger
at this early stage of the proceedings.

From being a frail phantom of her former equable self she returned in bounds to a condition
of passable philosophy.  She bloomed again in the face in the course of a few days, and was
well enough to go about as usual.  One day Mrs. Melbury proposed that for a change she should
be driven in the gig to Sherton market, whither Melbury's man was going on other errands. 
Grace had no business whatever in Sherton; but it crossed her mind that Winterborne would probably
be there, and this made the thought of such a drive interesting.

On the way she saw nothing of him; but when the horse was walking slowly through the obstructions
of Sheep Street, she discerned the young man on the pavement.  She thought of that time when
he had been standing under his apple-tree on her return from school, and of the tender opportunity
then missed through her fastidiousness. Her heart rose in her throat.  She abjured all such
fastidiousness now.  Nor did she forget the last occasion on which she had beheld him in that
town, making cider in the court-yard of the Earl of Wessex Hotel, while she was figuring as
a fine lady in the balcony above.

Grace directed the man to set her down there in the midst, and immediately went up to her lover.
Giles had not before observed her, and his eyes now suppressedly looked his pleasure, without
the embarrassment that had formerly marked him at such meetings.

When a few words had been spoken, she said, archly, "I have nothing to do.  Perhaps you are
deeply engaged?"

"I?  Not a bit.  My business now at the best of times is small, I am sorry to say."

"Well, then, I am going into the Abbey.  Come along with me."

The proposition had suggested itself as a quick escape from publicity, for many eyes were regarding
her.  She had hoped that sufficient time had elapsed for the extinction of curiosity; but it
was quite otherwise.  The people looked at her with tender interest as the deserted girl-wife--without
obtrusiveness, and without vulgarity; but she was ill prepared for scrutiny in any shape.

They walked about the Abbey aisles, and presently sat down.  Not a soul was in the building
save themselves.  She regarded a stained window, with her head sideways, and tentatively asked
him if he remembered the last time they were in that town alone.

He remembered it perfectly, and remarked, "You were a proud miss then, and as dainty as you
were high.  Perhaps you are now?"

Grace slowly shook her head.  "Affliction has taken all that out of me," she answered, impressively.
"Perhaps I am too far the other way now." As there was something lurking in this that she could
not explain, she added, so quickly as not to allow him time to think of it, "Has my father
written to you at all?"

"Yes," said Winterborne.

She glanced ponderingly up at him.  "Not about me?"

"Yes."

His mouth was lined with charactery which told her that he had been bidden to take the hint
as to the future which she had been bidden to give.  The unexpected discovery sent a scarlet
pulsation through Grace for the moment.  However, it was only Giles who stood there, of whom
she had no fear; and her self-possession returned.

"He said I was to sound you with a view to--what you will understand, if you care to," continued
Winterborne, in a low voice.  Having been put on this track by herself, he was not disposed
to abandon it in a hurry.

They had been children together, and there was between them that familiarity as to personal
affairs which only such acquaintanceship can give.  "You know, Giles," she answered, speaking
in a very practical tone, "that that is all very well; but I am in a very anomalous position
at present, and I cannot say anything to the point about such things as those."

"No?" he said, with a stray air as regarded the subject.  He was looking at her with a curious
consciousness of discovery.  He had not been imagining that their renewed intercourse would
show her to him thus.  For the first time he realized an unexpectedness in her, which, after
all, should not have been unexpected.  She before him was not the girl Grace Melbury whom he
used to know. Of course, he might easily have prefigured as much; but it had never occurred
to him.  She was a woman who had been married; she had moved on; and without having lost her
girlish modesty, she had lost her girlish shyness.  The inevitable change, though known to
him, had not been heeded; and it struck him into a momentary fixity.  The truth was that he
had never come into close comradeship with her since her engagement to Fitzpiers, with the
brief exception of the evening encounter on Rubdown Hill, when she met him with his cider apparatus;
and that interview had been of too cursory a kind for insight.

Winterborne had advanced, too.  He could criticise her.  Times had been when to criticise a
single trait in Grace Melbury would have lain as far beyond his powers as to criticise a deity.
This thing was sure: it was a new woman in many ways whom he had come out to see; a creature
of more ideas, more dignity, and, above all, more assurance, than the original Grace had been
capable of.  He could not at first decide whether he were pleased or displeased at this. But
upon the whole the novelty attracted him.

She was so sweet and sensitive that she feared his silence betokened something in his brain
of the nature of an enemy to her. "What are you thinking of that makes those lines come in
your forehead?" she asked. "I did not mean to offend you by speaking of the time being premature
as yet."

Touched by the genuine loving-kindness which had lain at the foundation of these words, and
much moved, Winterborne turned his face aside, as he took her by the hand.  He was grieved
that he had criticised her.

"You are very good, dear Grace," he said, in a low voice.  "You are better, much better, than
you used to be."

"How?"

He could not very well tell her how, and said, with an evasive smile, "You are prettier;" which
was not what he really had meant. He then remained still holding her right hand in his own
right, so that they faced in opposite ways; and as he did not let go, she ventured upon a tender
remonstrance.

"I think we have gone as far as we ought to go at present--and far enough to satisfy my poor
father that we are the same as ever. You see, Giles, my case is not settled yet, and if--Oh,
suppose I NEVER get free!--there should be any hitch or informality!"

She drew a catching breath, and turned pale.  The dialogue had been affectionate comedy up
to this point.  The gloomy atmosphere of the past, and the still gloomy horizon of the present,
had been for the interval forgotten.  Now the whole environment came back, the due balance
of shade among the light was restored.

"It is sure to be all right, I trust?" she resumed, in uneasy accents. "What did my father
say the solicitor had told him?"

"Oh--that all is sure enough.  The case is so clear--nothing could be clearer.  But the legal
part is not yet quite done and finished, as is natural."

"Oh no--of course not," she said, sunk in meek thought.  "But father said it was ALMOST--did
he not? Do you know anything about the new law that makes these things so easy?"

"Nothing--except the general fact that it enables ill-assorted husbands and wives to part in
a way they could not formerly do without an Act of Parliament."

"Have you to sign a paper, or swear anything? Is it something like that?"

"Yes, I believe so."

"How long has it been introduced?"

"About six months or a year, the lawyer said, I think."

To hear these two poor Arcadian innocents talk of imperial law would have made a humane person
weep who should have known what a dangerous structure they were building up on their supposed
knowledge.  They remained in thought, like children in the presence of the incomprehensible.

"Giles," she said, at last, "it makes me quite weary when I think how serious my situation
is, or has been.  Shall we not go out from here now, as it may seem rather fast of me--our
being so long together, I mean--if anybody were to see us? I am almost sure," she added, uncertainly,
"that I ought not to let you hold my hand yet, knowing that the documents--or whatever it may
be--have not been signed; so that I--am still as married as ever--or almost. My dear father
has forgotten himself.  Not that I feel morally bound to any one else, after what has taken
place--no woman of spirit could--now, too, that several months have passed.  But I wish to
keep the proprieties as well as I can."

"Yes, yes.  Still, your father reminds us that life is short.  I myself feel that it is; that
is why I wished to understand you in this that we have begun.  At times, dear Grace, since
receiving your father's letter, I am as uneasy and fearful as a child at what he said.  If
one of us were to die before the formal signing and sealing that is to release you have been
done--if we should drop out of the world and never have made the most of this little, short,
but real opportunity, I should think to myself as I sunk down dying, 'Would to my God that
I had spoken out my whole heart--given her one poor little kiss when I had the chance to give
it! But I never did, although she had promised to be mine some day; and now I never can.' That's
what I should think."

She had begun by watching the words from his lips with a mournful regard, as though their passage
were visible; but as he went on she dropped her glance.  "Yes," she said, "I have thought that,
too.  And, because I have thought it, I by no means meant, in speaking of the proprieties,
to be reserved and cold to you who loved me so long ago, or to hurt your heart as I used to
do at that thoughtless time.  Oh, not at all, indeed! But--ought I to allow you?--oh, it is
too quick--surely!" Women amazed
watching him, the men retreated, forming wide circle around him that he cried oaths, waving his hands
as if to close to blows with the whole crew. Le enraged the silence of those people, as if to an unruly
crew.

- When did Captain Llovet not find in your village men who follow the sea?

The roaring said, as a tyrant who is disobedient, as a God who provides
the flight the faithful.

He spoke in Castilian, which was the sign of blind rage.

- Present, Captain! "- Shouted at one time a few voices trembling.

And breaking through, appeared in the center of the circle five old, five skeletons gnawed
by the sea and storms, former sailors of Captain Llovet, carried by the subordination and affection
that creates the danger faced in common. Yet a little shuffling, others with hopping of a bird,
one with eyes wide open, showing the pupils the vagueness of senile
blindness, all trembling with cold, his body wrapped in yellow cloth
double cap pulled on scarves wraps to the temples.

It was the old guard running to die alongside his idol.

Of women and children leaving groups, which were thrown on them trying
to stop them.

- Grandfather! - Shouted grandchildren.

- Stop! -
Wailed the Bouncers.

And the brave old men, standing as the hacks dying to hear the clarion
call of battle, repelled the arms to be tied to their necks and legs,
and shouted the voice answering your boss:

- Present, Captain!

Sea lions with his idol in front, were opened to the sea happened to take one of the boats. Red,
flushed by the effort, his neck swelled with rage, managed only move the boat and slip a few steps.
Angry with his age, tried a new effort, but the crowd was protesting against his madness, and
fell upon them, disappearing old caught by their families.

- Let
me, you cowards!

When you touch me, I'll kill him! - Roared the captain Llovet.

But for the first time that people, who adored him, put his hand on
him.

I grabbed as crazy, deaf to his entreaties, oblivious to their curses.

The boat, abandoned all help, ran to death on the waves tumbling. Already close to the rocks,
and was going to crash between swirls of foam, and the man who both had spurned such a life, which
had fed to the sharks with tribes whole name and wearing a dark scary as a legend, stirring
furious, subject a hundred hands, cursing because he was not allowed
to risk the existence relief to some unknown, until, exhausted their
strength, eventually crying like a child.

An official

Reclining on the bed and continuing with vague look roof cracks, journalist Juan Yanez, the only
guest room political thought had come that night in the third month of confinement.

The nine ... The horn had thrown in the yard the long notes of taps; in the corridors rang with
monotonous equal steps of the guards, and closed blocks, filled with
human flesh, came a rhythmic sound, like the breath of a furnace distant
or the breathing of a sleeping giant it seemed impossible that at
the old convent so silent, whose ruin was more visible to the harsh
light of gas, sleeping a thousand men.

The poor Yáñez, forced to lie at nine, with a perpetual light before the eyes and plunged in a
deafening silence that made them believe in the possibility of dead
world, thinking how was hard to settle your account with the institutions.

Cursed item! Each line was cost you a week of closure, each word a day.

And Yanez, remembering that night the opera season began with Lohengrin,
the opera favorite, saw the boxes full of lovely bare shoulders and
necks, between flashes with jewels, silks and airy reflexes waving
feathers ruffled.

- The nine ... You have now left the swan, and
the son of Parsifal will launch its first notes between public expectation
hiss ... And here I am!

Christ! I have no bad opera ...

Yes, it was not bad. The dungeon below, as if it came from an underground, came the telltale
noises with a brute existence of the mountain, who were to execute a time to time by a number
of murders. It was a clash of strings that looked like the noise a lot of nails and old keys,
and occasionally a weak voice repeated: "Pa. .. dre ours that is ... TAS in the heavens ...
San ... ta Maria ... "with timid, pleading expression the child who sleeps in the arms of his mother.
Always repeating the monotonous chant, without that could make him stop! In the opinion of the
majority, wanted to pretend to be crazy to save it Neck: maybe fourteen months of confinement in
a dungeon, waiting for all hours death, had finished with their little brains of fierce instinctual.

Yanez
was cursing the injustice of men, who for a few scribbled pages in
a bad mood when he was forced to sleep every night, lulled by the
delirium a sentence of death, when he heard loud voices and hurried
footsteps on the same floor where was his department.

- No, not sleep
there - cried a voice tremulous and high-pitched -.

Am I a criminal? I an officer of Mercy and the same as you ... and thirty years of service. Who ask
for Nicomedes: everybody knows me, even the newspapers have spoken of me. And after staying
in jail, do you still want me to sleep in a loft or for prisoners serving? Thank you very much.
Is this what I ordered to come?

... I'm sick and not sleep there. Bring me a doctor, I need a doctor ...

And the journalist, despite their situation, exhilarated by the intonation reíase effeminate and
ridiculous with that of thirty years of service requested by the doctor.

He repeated the murmur of voices as if they were discussing Council
were heard steps, each time closer, and opened the door to the room
of politicians, sticking out her cap with gold braid.

- Don Juan
- said the employee with a certain shyness - you have company tonight
... Dispense you is not my fault, the need ... Anyway, tomorrow will
already have the head otherwise.

Pass you ... sir.

And Mr. (well, with an ironic intonation) passed the door, followed by two prisoners, one with
a suitcase and a bundle of blankets and sticks, another with a canvas bag which marked the
edges of a wide and low box height.

- Good evening, sir.

Greeted with humility, with a trembling voice that he did laugh Yáñez,
and take your hat off discovered a small head, cane and carefully
shaved.

It was a fifty obese, ruddy; layer seemed to fall off their shoulders, and a pack of charms
dangling from a thick chain gold pattered on his belly at the slightest movement. His eyes
were small reflections steel blue, and the mouth appeared oppressed
by a curved and drooping mustache like two question marks.

- You
dispense - said, sitting down - I will bother you much, but it's not
my fault.

I have come on the train tonight, and I find that I get to an attic
bedroom filled rats.

What a trip!

- Are you a prisoner?

- At this point, yes - he smiled - but do not bother much with me.

And the pot-bellied bourgeois showed obsequious, humble, as if asking forgiveness for having usurped
his place in prison.

Yáñez staring at him: so shy he was astonished.

Who was that guy? And of course ideas danced imagination loose, just
outlined, which seemed to seek and pursue complete a thought.

Suddenly, the sound in the distance again complaining of the beast locked Paternoster, journalist
sat nervously, as if she had to catch a fleeting idea, setting his sight in that bag that was
at the feet of the newcomer.

- What have you there?

... Is the tool box?

The man hesitated, but finally gave him the quizzical expression energetic,
and bent head affirmatively.

Then the silence was long and arduous.

Some prisoners placed man's bed in a corner of the room. Yáñez stared at his companion accommodation,
who stood with bowed head, as shying away from their eyes.

When the bed was made and the prisoners retreated, closing the door
with the employee exterior lock, continued the painful silence.

Finally, one subject made an effort and spoke:

- I'll give you a bad night, but it's not my fault: they have brought me here. I resisted, knowing
that you are a decent person will feel my presence as the dark side may have occurred in this
house.

The young man was disarmed by such humility.

- No, sir, I'm used to it - said wryly -. They are made in this house so good friends, that nothing
else matters! Also, you do not look bad person.

And the reporter, who had not been cleansed from his first romantic readings, was very original
to the interview and felt some satisfaction.

- I live in Barcelona - continued the old - but my partner in this district has been dead some
of the last binge, and yesterday, showing up at the hearing, a sheriff told me: "Nicomedes ...
'Cause I'm Nicomedes Flavours. Have not you heard of me? ... It is strange; the press has published
many times my name.

"Nicomedes, order of the president that take the train tonight.

"I come with the intention of getting into an inn until the day of work, and from the station
brought me here, I do not know what fears and precautions, and more scorn, I want to hold Don
rats. Have you seen? Is this way of treating justice officials?

- How many years have you been playing the position?

- Thirty years, sir: I started at the time of Elizabeth II. I'm the dean of the class and tell on
my list to political row. I have the pride of having always fulfilled
my duty.

The will now be one hundred two. There are many, right? Well, I have behaved with all the best
I could. None will have complained about me.

Even the veterans have been presidio that by me at the last moment,
he calmed down and said: "Nicomedes, I am pleased that be you.

"

The official view was cheering in kind and curious attention paid him Yáñez. He was taking land: every
time he spoke with more disengage.

- I have also my little inventor - continued -.

The devices are manufactured by myself, and As for cleaning no more than asking ... Do you
see them?

The reporter jumped out of bed as if to flee.

- No, thank you very much. I believe it.

And he looked with disgust those hands whose palms were red and greasy. Blow this cleaning time
talking recently, but Yanez seemed impregnated human fat juice of one hundred who formed his
list.

- And are you satisfied with the profession? - Asked to make him forget the desire to look
their inventions.

- What a relief! ... Must conform. My only consolation is that every time you work less. But how hard
is that bread! If I had known! ...

And looking at the ground fell silent.

- All against me - continued -. I have seen many comedies, you know? I have seen that certain ancient
kings went everywhere carrying back the executor of his righteousness, dressed in red with the
ax to the neck, and made him his friend and adviser. That was logical! The manager to meet the
justice it seems to me someone and deserves some consideration. But these all times are hypocrisy.
Cries the prosecutor asking for a head on behalf of who knows what
things respectable, and all seems well, I'm off after his bidding,
and I spit and insult me.

Say, sir, is this fair?

... If I go into an inn, I put in the door just know me in the street all shun my touch, and even in
court me pay to throw his feet as if I were an officer just like them, as if my money was not
on the budget ... All Against Me! And then - just added a voice perceptible - the other enemies
... The other! Did you know?

Those who left never to return, and yet again, that hundred unhappy that I dealt with Father cuddles,
making unharmed and that ... Ingrates!

I just come to see me alone.

- What! ... Do they return?

- Every night. There are those who annoy me recently: the past, and scarcely seem Friends which
I left yesterday, but the old ones from my early days, when I was still excited and I felt awkward,
those are real demons that, just see me alone in the dark parade on my chest in an endless
procession, oppress me, choking me, touching my eyes with edge of their hopas. They follow
me everywhere, and as I grow old are more frequent. When I got into the attic began to see them
poke through the darkest corners. For this reason she a doctor: I was sick I was afraid at
night, I wanted light, company.

- How long are you alone?

- No, I have family there in my little house on the outskirts of Barcelona, ​​a family that gives
no trouble: a dog, three cats and eight chickens. They do not understand is why people respect
me, me like as if I were a man like others. Age quietly beside me. Never I happened to kill a
chicken, I faint to see bloodshed.

He said this with the same plaintive voice before, weak, overwhelmed, as if he felt the slow collapse
from within.

- And never did you family?

- Me? ... As everyone! You tell it all, sir. So long ago I do not speak! ... My wife died six years
ago. Do not think that was one of those drunken sluts and brutish, which is the role that novels
reserves the female executioner. It was a girl of my people, with whom he married upon returning
from service. We had a son and a daughter; bread enough, much misery, and what do you want?
youth and a certain brutality of nature I brought to the office. Do not think I got the job easily,
until needed influences. At first hacíame grace the hatred of the people, I was proud to inspire
terror and disgust. I served in many hearings, we shot half of Spain, and the boys more and more
beautiful, until finally we were in Barcelona. What a season! The best my life: five or six years
there was no work. My savings were converted into a house in outside and the neighbors appreciated
Don Nicomedes, a man sympathetic employee at the hearing. The boy, an angel of God, a worker,
Miss Prude and quiet, was in a commercial house; girls - how much I regret not having her
picture here! - the girl, who was a seraph, with big eyes blue and blond braids, thick as
my arm, and when they ran around our little garden resembled one of those ladies who go to operas,
not going to Barcelona with his mother without some young came upon her footsteps. Had a serious
boyfriend, a good boy who would soon to be a doctor. Things she and her mother, I pretended
not to see anything with that kind blindness parents that are reserved for the last time. But Lord,
how happy we were!

Nicomedes's voice was increasingly shaky, his little blue eyes were glazed. Do not cry, but his
grotesque obesity agitábase with tremors of the child who makes efforts to swallow tears.

- But it occurred to a fiend with a long history to be caught, was
sentenced to death and I had to take over when I had almost forgotten
what my office.

What a day that one! Half the city knew seeing me on the stage, and there was even journalists,
such as worse an epidemic (you dispense), found out my life, presenting in print to me and my
family, like we're freaks, and saying with admiration that we facade decent people. We were
put in fashion. But what style! The neighbors closed doors and windows to see me, and although
the city is great, I always knew in the streets and insulted me. One day, coming home, I received
my wife like crazy. The girl! The girl! ... Saw in bed, his face
contorted, greenish, she so pretty! and white-spotted tongue. Was
poisoned, poisoned with matches, and had suffered atrocious pain for
hours, silence for the remedy came too late ... And here! The next
day was no longer living. The poor had value. He loved with all his
soul to mediquín, and I read the letter in which the boy said goodbye
forever over who was the daughter. Do not cry. Was it time? The world
coming down on us, the misfortune was blowing everywhere, this quiet
home We had built collapsed by its four corners. My son ... also my
son threw the trading house, and was useless to seek new placement
or support your friends. Who crosses the word with the son of the
executioner? Poor thing! As if he had given to choose the father before
coming to the world! What crime did he, so good, that I would have
begotten? Spent all day at home, people fleeing in a corner of the
little garden, sad and neglected since the death of the girl. "What
do you think, Anthony?" He asked. "Dad, I think of Anita." The poor
deceived me. Thought of him as we had cruelly wrong for a while thinking
ourselves equal to others, and committing the insolence of want to
be happy. The thud was terrible: unable to get up. Antonio disappeared.

-
And nothing has known you from your son? - Said Yanez, interested
in the grim history.

- Yes, after four days. We fished off Barcelona,
​​came wrapped in networks swollen and broken ... I guess you and
others. The poor old woman was slowly, as if tirasen guys it from
above, and I, the bad, the hopeless, I am left here alone all alone,
without recourse even to drink, because if I get drunk, they come,
You know? them, my persecutors, to go mad with the flutter of black
hopas as if they were huge crows, and I get to die ... And yet, not
hate.

Winterborne felt like a very Cain, over and above his previous sorrow. How he had sinned against
her in not telling her what he knew.  He turned aside; the feeling of his cruelty mounted higher
and higher. How could he have dreamed of kissing her? He could hardly refrain from tears. 
Surely nothing more pitiable had ever been known than the condition of this poor young thing,
now as heretofore the victim of her father's well-meant but blundering policy.

Even in the hour of Melbury's greatest assurance Winterborne had harbored a suspicion that
no law, new or old, could undo Grace's marriage without her appearance in public; though he
was not sufficiently sure of what might have been enacted to destroy by his own words her pleasing
idea that a mere dash of the pen, on her father's testimony, was going to be sufficient.  But
he had never suspected the sad fact that the position was irremediable.

Poor Grace, perhaps feeling that she had indulged in too much fluster for a mere kiss, calmed
herself at finding how grave he was.  "I am glad we are friends again anyhow," she said, smiling
through her tears. "Giles, if you had only shown half the boldness before I married that you
show now, you would have carried me off for your own first instead of second.  If we do marry,
I hope you will never think badly of me for encouraging you a little, but my father is SO impatient,
you know, as his years and infirmities increase, that he will wish to see us a little advanced
when he comes.  That is my only excuse."

To Winterborne all this was sadder than it was sweet.  How could she so trust her father's
conjectures? He did not know how to tell her the truth and shame himself.  And yet he felt
that it must be done.  "We may have been wrong," he began, almost fearfully, "in supposing
that it can all be carried out while we stay here at Hintock.  I am not sure but that people
may have to appear in a public court even under the new Act; and if there should be any difficulty,
and we cannot marry after all--"

Her cheeks became slowly bloodless.  "Oh, Giles," she said, grasping his arm, "you have heard
something! What--cannot my father conclude it there and now? Surely he has done it? Oh, Giles,
Giles, don't deceive me.  What terrible position am I in?"

He could not tell her, try as he would.  The sense of her implicit trust in his honor absolutely
disabled him.  "I cannot inform you," he murmured, his voice as husky as that of the leaves
underfoot.  "Your father will soon be here.  Then we shall know. I will take you home."

Inexpressibly dear as she was to him, he offered her his arm with the most reserved air, as
he added, correctingly, "I will take you, at any rate, into the drive."

Thus they walked on together.  Grace vibrating between happiness and misgiving.  It was only
a few minutes' walk to where the drive ran, and they had hardly descended into it when they
heard a voice behind them cry, "Take out that arm!"

For a moment they did not heed, and the voice repeated, more loudly and hoarsely,

"Take out that arm!"

It was Melbury's.  He had returned sooner than they expected, and now came up to them.  Grace's
hand had been withdrawn like lightning on her hearing the second command.  "I don't blame you--I
don't blame you," he said, in the weary cadence of one broken down with scourgings.  "But you
two must walk together no more--I have been surprised--I have been cruelly deceived--Giles,
don't say anything to me; but go away!"

He was evidently not aware that Winterborne had known the truth before he brought it; and Giles
would not stay to discuss it with him then. When the young man had gone Melbury took his daughter
in-doors to the room he used as his office.  There he sat down, and bent over the slope of
the bureau, her bewildered gaze fixed upon him.

When Melbury had recovered a little he said, "You are now, as ever, Fitzpiers's wife.  I was
deluded.  He has not done you ENOUGH harm. You are still subject to his beck and call."

"Then let it be, and never mind, father," she said, with dignified sorrow.  "I can bear it.
It is your trouble that grieves me most." She stooped over him, and put her arm round his neck,
which distressed Melbury still more.  "I don't mind at all what comes to me," Grace continued;
"whose wife I am, or whose I am not.  I do love Giles; I cannot help that; and I have gone
further with him than I should have done if I had known exactly how things were. But I do not
reproach you."

"Then Giles did not tell you?" said Melbury.

"No," said she.  "He could not have known it.  His behavior to me proved that he did not know."

Her father said nothing more, and Grace went away to the solitude of her chamber.

Her heavy disquietude had many shapes; and for a time she put aside the dominant fact to think
of her too free conduct towards Giles.  His love-making had been brief as it was sweet; but
would he on reflection contemn her for forwardness? How could she have been so simple as to
suppose she was in a position to behave as she had done! Thus she mentally blamed her ignorance;
and yet in the centre of her heart she blessed it a little for what it had momentarily brought her.

CHAPTER XL.

Life among the people involved in these events seemed to be suppressed and hide-bound for a
while.  Grace seldom showed herself outside the house, never outside the garden; for she feared
she might encounter Giles Winterborne; and that she could not bear.

This pensive intramural existence of the self-constituted nun appeared likely to continue for
an indefinite time.  She had learned that there was one possibility in which her formerly imagined
position might become real, and only one; that her husband's absence should continue long enough
to amount to positive desertion.  But she never allowed her mind to dwell much upon the thought;
still less did she deliberately hope for such a result.  Her regard for Winterborne had been
rarefied by the shock which followed its avowal into an ethereal emotion that had little to
do with living and doing.

As for Giles, he was lying--or rather sitting--ill at his hut.  A feverish indisposition which
had been hanging about him for some time, the result of a chill caught the previous winter,
seemed to acquire virulence with the prostration of his hopes.  But not a soul knew of his
languor, and he did not think the case serious enough to send for a medical man.  After a few
days he was better again, and crept about his home in a great coat, attending to his simple
wants as usual with his own hands.  So matters stood when the limpid inertion of Grace's pool-like
existence was disturbed as by a geyser.  She received a letter from Fitzpiers.

Such a terrible letter it was in its import, though couched in the gentlest language.  In his
absence Grace had grown to regard him with toleration, and her relation to him with equanimity,
till she had almost forgotten how trying his presence would be. The Pachacuti you
said they were each as I liked, and being supplied by Inca Yupanqui everything you need ANSI with supplies
as quel everything else in his village had need, broke Inca Viracocha, which begged Inca Yupanqui,
which provided that parties had in Cuzco, come to find them, and he said he would do, who,
each and when that party was in the city, whenever it came to be in them. Which Viracocha Inca,
from then to ten years the coronation of Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, with the quill in his village
called Cagua Xaquixahuana [94] that is top of the village of Calca, seven miles from the city of Cuzco, enjoying
himself and rejoicing, ill with some disease, which, in four months that ill this man Viracocha Inca
died, who died when eighty years old.

Which, after death, Inca Yupanqui honored him very much, by bringing his body on a stretcher well
decorated, well ANSI as if alive, to the city of Cuzco, each é when that party had, with honor
and respect him to the lords of Cuzco and to the chiefs, ANSI good as if alive, in front of
which package to sacrifice and burn a lot of sheep lambs é, é clothing, and maize, coca é, é
pour too much chicha, saying that such bulk ate, and that he was the son of the sun, and quest
with him in heaven. And he made doing too many packages and many, few gentlemen had happened
from Manco Capac to his father Viracocha Inca and so he made, he issued hiciesen some very
gallant wooden benches carved and painted pintaduras where feathers were attached many different colors.
  Grace was unable to reply to her husband in the absence
of an address, and the morrow came, and the next day, and the evening on which he had requested
her to meet him. Throughout the whole of it she remained within the four walls of her room.

The sense of her harassment, carking doubt of what might be impending, hung like a cowl of
blackness over the Melbury household.  They spoke almost in whispers, and wondered what Fitzpiers
would do next.  It was the hope of every one that, finding she did not arrive, he would return
again to France; and as for Grace, she was willing to write to him on the most kindly terms
if he would only keep away.

The night passed, Grace lying tense and wide awake, and her relatives, in great part, likewise.
When they met the next morning they were pale and anxious, though neither speaking of the subject
which occupied all their thoughts.  The day passed as quietly as the previous ones, and she
began to think that in the rank caprice of his moods he had abandoned the idea of getting her
to join him as quickly as it was formed.  All on a sudden, some person who had just come from
Sherton entered the house with the news that Mr. Fitzpiers was on his way home to Hintock.
He had been seen hiring a carriage at the Earl of Wessex Hotel.

Her father and Grace were both present when the intelligence was announced.

"Now," said Melbury, "we must make the best of what has been a very bad matter.  The man is
repenting; the partner of his shame, I hear, is gone away from him to Switzerland, so that
chapter of his life is probably over.  If he chooses to make a home for ye I think you should
not say him nay, Grace.  Certainly he cannot very well live at Hintock without a blow to his
pride; but if he can bear that, and likes Hintock best, why, there's the empty wing of the
house as it was before."

"Oh, father!" said Grace, turning white with dismay.

"Why not?" said he, a little of his former doggedness returning. He was, in truth, disposed
to somewhat more leniency towards her husband just now than he had shown formerly, from a conviction
that he had treated him over-roughly in his anger.  "Surely it is the most respectable thing
to do?" he continued.  "I don't like this state that you are in--neither married nor single.
It hurts me, and it hurts you, and it will always be remembered against us in Hintock.  There
has never been any scandal like it in the family before."

"He will be here in less than an hour," murmured Grace.  The twilight of the room prevented
her father seeing the despondent misery of her face.  The one intolerable condition, the condition
she had deprecated above all others, was that of Fitzpiers's reinstatement there.  "Oh, I won't,
I won't see him," she said, sinking down.  She was almost hysterical.

"Try if you cannot," he returned, moodily.

"Oh yes, I will, I will," she went on, inconsequently.  "I'll try;" and jumping up suddenly,
she left the room.

In the darkness of the apartment to which she flew nothing could have been seen during the
next half-hour; but from a corner a quick breathing was audible from this impressible creature,
who combined modern nerves with primitive emotions, and was doomed by such coexistence to be
numbered among the distressed, and to take her scourgings to their exquisite extremity.

The window was open.  On this quiet, late summer evening, whatever sound arose in so secluded
a district--the chirp of a bird, a call from a voice, the turning of a wheel--extended over
bush and tree to unwonted distances.  Very few sounds did arise.  But as Grace invisibly breathed
in the brown glooms of the chamber, the small remote noise of light wheels came in to her,
accompanied by the trot of a horse on the turnpike-road.  There seemed to be a sudden hitch
or pause in the progress of the vehicle, which was what first drew her attention to it. She
knew the point whence the sound proceeded--the hill-top over which travellers passed on their
way hitherward from Sherton Abbas--the place at which she had emerged from the wood with Mrs.
Charmond.  Grace slid along the floor, and bent her head over the window-sill, listening with
open lips.  The carriage had stopped, and she heard a man use exclamatory words.  Then another
said, "What the devil is the matter with the horse?" She recognized the voice as her husband's.

The accident, such as it had been, was soon remedied, and the carriage could be heard descending
the hill on the Hintock side, soon to turn into the lane leading out of the highway, and then
into the "drong" which led out of the lane to the house where she was.

A spasm passed through Grace.  The Daphnean instinct, exceptionally strong in her as a girl,
had been revived by her widowed seclusion; and it was not lessened by her affronted sentiments
towards the comer, and her regard for another man.  She opened some little ivory tablets that
lay on the dressing-table, scribbled in pencil on one of them, "I am gone to visit one of my
school-friends," gathered a few toilet necessaries into a hand-bag, and not three minutes after
that voice had been heard, her slim form, hastily wrapped up from observation, might have been
seen passing out of the back door of Melbury's house. Thence she skimmed up the garden-path,
through the gap in the hedge, and into the mossy cart-track under the trees which led into
the depth of the woods.

The leaves overhead were now in their latter green--so opaque, that it was darker at some of
the densest spots than in winter-time, scarce a crevice existing by which a ray could get down
to the ground.  But in open places she could see well enough.  Summer was ending: in the daytime
singing insects hung in every sunbeam; vegetation was heavy nightly with globes of dew; and
after showers creeping damps and twilight chills came up from the hollows.  The plantations
were always weird at this hour of eve--more spectral far than in the leafless season, when
there were fewer masses and more minute lineality. In
ancient times, when the Roman Empire flourished, call one Caesar, was to point by his successor,
as it is between the Western Emperors, the King of Romans, France The Delphin, and our Prince
Spain. But declined and the power of the Romans, after of divided the Empire, the Greek emperors
gave only the title of Caesar, without some right of succession, but was always estimated this
motion, since it was only a shadow of what it was. Gave himself up after the first, until the
dignity of Sebastocrator was preferred, Alejos Commener when he gave his second place in the Empire
to Isacio. It also lost after their seniority and authority, when it Alejos, for being childless
male, married his daughter eldest daughter Irene, with Alejos Palaeologus, Despot giving title,
which is the same as calling to a master, and was certainly Emperor if not before his father died,
so that the Caesar's dignity in the empire is the third, being the first of despot, and the
second of Sebastocrator. Curopalates says that these three dignitaries have no particular occupation
to go to, and call him Mr. Caesar, a word taken out of pride, and due only to God in ancient times
even the Emperors themselves, for we read of Augustus, Tiberius and some others who never
consented to being called gentlemen. Tratavanle of Majesty Caesar, the bonnet was wearing gold
and scarlet, and his shot almost as the Emperor's scarlet coat, socks and shoes, light blue,
and the chair as the emperor himself, but no eagles, was next to the emperor in public entrances
and sides, and lived in his palace. This whole incident has been referred to is under what is removed
Montaner in its history, and Berenguer in their relations not stopped writing. But George Pachymeres
in chap. II of the book 12 refers to any variety that event, and to me it seemed not to be confused
with the above, since it could not reconcile, so that one can read it clearly to view what
seemeth him more real.

Already determined the Emperor to receive Berenguer de Entenza, sent
him to call many times that was said was at Gallipoli, and to assure
him stamps sent its patent pending Gold, in which he promised with
an oath, that he would try to wanting to be good will and friendly
spirit, and that when they wanted to go did not prevent.

Berenguer received the mails, with the faith and word of the Emperor, went to Constantinople with
two ships, but reached no wanted to get out of them, and sent notice to the Emperor of your arrival.
Then the Emperor ordered him call, and sent cars and horses to enter with great authority and honor,
but Berenguer neither wanted to leave the ships, and obey, asking the Emperor to send him hostages
Despot to his son John. This seemed wrong so the Emperor, as to all, not trusting of his word
and oath, and so many days left him in ships. Finally came the Christmas Day sent him to call, saying
he was in good spirits as he had secured with his faith and word. It was a long time doubtful, until
disillusioned, and went to the Emperor of who was wonderfully received, but always retreated
to the ships, to where the Emperor has always had given him. Natividad day the Emperor took
the oath of fidelity, and this gave him the dignity of Grand Duke of the Senate, and gave the
golden rod, reinvention of the Emperor, and he dressed the way and use a Senator, that left their
ships, and went to lodge to Cosmidio where his Catalanes, some of them were also honored with titles
and large grants, and since that time had great authority Berenguer with private and Andronico's
advice. In the oath of allegiance made Berenguer conceal his deception, showing truth and
sincerity, then having to swear to be a friend Emperor's friends and enemies of their enemies,
except to Fadrique of enemies because he said that he had sworn before friendship. It looked like
it contained intelligent itself some big secret, most of what seemed outwardly, others took
it well, saying that as he was faithful to Frederic, so would the Emperor, which won opinion
and glory, following Case Platon, how much importance is looking good and just to win opinion, and
to deceive.

CHAPTER XXI.

The Genoese persuade the Emperor's war against the Catalans, and Michael Palaeologus ago the same,
and people get excited at Gallipoli war.

The Genoese of Pera, who just before and magnified fortified with
moats and walls were the first that our weapons were suspected, and
put doubt in our faithfulness, Andronico said the Emperor, who was
nine of the West, who was preparing a large and powerful army to tackle
the provinces of the Empire to the spring, and that this had the of
course for obvious guesses, and that the Catalans who were formerly
in his service and those who then came Berenguer de Entenza, were
united in their damage, and not defense, because they corresponded
secretly with the Sicilian, and that the bastard brother Fadrique
Don King of Sicily was understood that came with twelve ships to join
them, and then waited for the pleading, and implement their attempts.

These were the lies with which the Genoese wanted to destroy the Catalans, and they introduced,
and become very confident, and zealous for the common good of the
Empire.

Advised to Andronico, according to Pachymeres says, who undertook at once to the Catalans with outdoor
war, that they had fifty ships on order, and that others who arm themselves for the Emperor,
or they give money to them, even if in the long run, would put them in the sea, and that this
only encouraged them to see the Greeks mistreated, the land that already had by country battered
and destroyed those who came to defend. No emperor then gave credit to the Genoese, believing
their sham chimeras were evil and envy, born since the Catalans put his foot in Greece. Faith
and oath of the Catalans it also claimed, but answered them that he appreciated their care, and
what hurt the works of the Greeks. He ordered them to be quiet, and he consulted what should
be done, and that consultation would be executed.

At the same time the honor and mercy that he did to Andronico Berenguer, Miguel irritated mood Palaeologus
to our ruin, and persuaded the Greeks began at once to deal with it, trying to for this all the
more effective means might, divine laws and human trampling. Were Greeks so envious and proud,
that incredible rage and fury, but with some secret went plotting treason and treachery, with
tongue and hands requested to Michael and bad affection against us, to urge the great reputation
of arms of the Catalans, and sat the supreme office of the empire, big decline of His Majesty,
and dishonor him. Believed Greeks always our Catalans were like the Alans and Turkish Greeks,
who were not raised their thoughts to more than living with a sad and miserable pay, but when
they saw provehidos them the offices of Cesar, Grand Duke, Steward and admiral, and had imbalances
to aspire to those who were warned their damage, and began to feel that the forces and honor
of the Empire are brought to the hands of foreigners.

While among the Greeks ran this talk and feelings, the soldiers of the garrisons as it seemed that
the wages are delayed, abused the Greeks in the towns where they were housed, ill-forced war and military
rigor hardly the most illustrious captains has been able to tackle. Michael Palaeologus alert to
every opportunity to slander our entire nation, he used this, to persuade his father, saying that
if not addressed then the insolence of the Catalans would be the total ruin of the Empire, and his
house, because not satisfied with pay and salaries as excessive, and very rich with the spoils
of Asia, pressed the friendly peoples to satisfy their greed, not for defeating the Turks, the
Empire was free easement, if one waited more intolerable, and cruel of the Catalans, whose hand
was making common freedom, that in vain he had recovered his grandfather Michael Palaeologus, done
Latinos to the Empire, if the second time they had to surrender voluntarily, that this was very
close to happening if not tackled his insolence, that they were still forces the Greeks if their
traces saliesen vain for any way to oppress Catalans: the obligation under which he had placed to
deliver their provinces from the Turks, and their arrogance and ingratitude it had cleared,
and his name deserved victory grievances, not services, because instead of establishing their
arms in a peace secure the Empire they made war upon the peoples new friends with intolerable
taxes, and bad treatment.

Tight Andronico persuasion of the child, and their private, continuously complaints cried the misery
and feelings of the Greeks as his disgrace, was then shot Catalans the effect of their talks,
responding to Roger, and to ask for money Berenguer for war, they do not want to pay until
they had passed into Asia, and should give top to war; language ever used Andronico, which until
then was longer in them mercy, and give them money, who asked them to ask. Andronico's response
was to the ears of Gallipoli, and was so great that caused uproar and riot throughout the country,
that forced captains to take up arms to attack the places of the Empire, and take some forces
and prisons. Andronico dilated while giving them satisfaction, showed great sense of his two
Captains Roger and Berenguer, for it seemed that the danger blood and wanted to enlarge, and
not to upset the Emperor who expected their larger accretions, not pressed as expected, that
they were given to them pay so well deserved. These doubts came to both, they resolved to send
ambassadors the Emperor, asking that they should pay, and would continue
its service with great fidelity, punishing the excesses of those who
dared to insult and abuse the friendly peoples.

This so polite embassy says Pachymeres that was the fear that the army had Miguel Palaeologus,
who had gathered to suppress their boldness and daring. Received from the Emperor the embassy,
​​then it seemed impossible to meet by the big pay they asked, but do not get to break, and he declared
war, sent them to Berenguer de Entenza, so that through him still with them some of the money they
asked. Contentarónse then with the money they were given, and he went to Gallipoli where he had already
reached Roger and his wife, mother and brother, who wanted to accompany him, and also, as
I suspect, Roger having near him to his mother Irene and sister of the Emperor, as hostages, case
against him wanted to proceed as a rebel, when the tumult and riot spend more forward.

CHAPTER XXII.

Pay yourself the people of war by order of Andronico with money short, where new born riots.

Andronico
forced, of necessity, with Greek cunning and fraud, sent to fight the currency money that was
given to the ambassadors to do pagamento, very prejudiced, and lacking in most third of its
former value, and wanted the soldiers received as if it were very full. Masters of deception less
noticed, easily they were persuaded, and sought after almost mutinous soldiers demanded their
pay, took the money, and brought him to Gallipoli where samples were taken and distributed with
complaints and feelings, but at last with only the name that were paid, although they knew the
fault was quieted. I did differently Genoese soon after, which concluded with the Emperor by a
certain amount of money given envy his army against the Catalans, paying them with the same
currency is returned to the send, and rid the army. When the Aragonese and Catalan happy with the
money of guests willing to pay pay Greeks, and give them full satisfaction, get reused currency
to the price they gave, and as food and sustenance needed suffers no delay forced the Greeks
to be the would give, and would receive the money. This is were altering the Greeks, and the
Catalans to get the food to weapons, with which all peoples that
district were deserted.

Andronico with endless complaints of the disorders and excesses of
soldiers, bent to follow the advice of his son, and effective remedy
and violent to much damage.

Pudiéranse tackle, although the diversity of heads that were in our army have full authority
over them, and they were united, for always, that Prince uses a trace
as unworthy of his duty, as he was giving money to the Catalans as
needed by its former price, and not send to universal edict that they
received all subjects of his empire at the same price, is to give
opportunity to break some of the people coming and the military.

Tiénese certainly this means one traced by the two Emperors Andronico and Michael, to mistreat
the Catalans to the Greeks, and they take up arms offended for revenge, that they felt that
the Catalans would be lost, and they free of his duty. Trace out fine, because our lack of money
is coming through villages and towns, and made contributions, and finding strength, with the
usual mistreated military leave hands and speaking to whom they were opposed. Author Nicephore
Greek as the offended party, has long excess of that militia, and many more Jorge Pachymeres,
which give rise to his passion, death with greater malignancy, but denies Montaner Catalans
were relentless and cruel to the Greeks, before helping them says and give help, because with
the fury of the Turks, the faithful in the Provinces of Asia, fleeing of this cruel bondage,
was collected on Constantinople, and perished in the dunghill of hunger and misery, but the
Greeks were moviese to pity the misfortune of those who had for colleagues and friends, and that
the Catalans with great liberality and generosity was helping many suffering in this common work.
The credit should be given to those historians who read this relation can easily be judge, preceding
the first word of his charities. Pacimerio Nicephore and Greeks, and in many parts of careless
writing the truth, offended by common and individual grievances of our own, away from the sometimes
Spanish Montaner, eyewitness of these events, and the simplicity of his style, and the time he
wrote, seems that ensure the truth of the events concerned.

The emperor feared that Roger discovered Andronico not take up arms against him, and follow the
will of the Catalans, resentful of deception that occurred in the currencies of pay, wanted the
general Maruli Prince Romeos who belonged to Roger in the East was on his part to bring him to
Constantinople, and to assure him of his will, he had always been to make him mercy, and grew up
together and ordered him to tell his sister Irene that come with it, for it seemed to have authority
to hierno to persuade the that mattered. Came to the embassy Maruli to Gallipoli, and Roger
replied that clearly Gallipoli was not going to leave without being more suspicious his men
to assist in Constantinople. Irene also be excused by the lack of health, which gave no place to get
underway. With This Maruli returned to Constantinople, and disabused the emperor, that if the army
did not pay had not entirely trying to concerts. However this disappointment insisted strongly
second time through his sister, to persuade him to pass to the east with some relief that he
would send, because Philadelphia was more trouble than the year before, and that the need for
suffering not even to forgive the dead. Roger would rather obey the Emperor, but the soldiers were
more irritated than ever, and if Roger likes to be given then show the Emperor authority, and
life-threatening.

At this time Berenguer de Entenza, seeing that everything was full of suspicions and fears,
and The Greeks regarded him as a Catalan, and the Catalans came to distrust of their faith, because
it was the Emperor in place as supreme, and that this could not be but still on their part, adopting
as evil Emperor did with them and finally being things of the Catalans, and Andronico, in terms
that could not be neutral, or be mediator between the difference without much risk of losing them
all, it was decided to go Berenguer his first duty, and preferring
his particular enhancement of the public honor and esteem of the nation,
which was near miss. Asked permission to go to Andronico for Gallipoli
and although the Emperor with prayers and gifts you tried to stop,
he continued to engage in two galleys had Blanquerna port through
the door of the Emperor, and says Pachymeres, packed with sad countenance,
and showed the fight of thinking that lead.

In the galley again he sent the emperor thirty vessels of gold and silver which he had given,
and The same author adds, that the insignia of the dignity of Grand Duke threw into the sea,
showing which has since renounced the friendship of the Empire. This action which is condemned in
Greek however vile and despicable, was the most worthy of praise that this great gentleman was
in the East because neither the honor nor the charges he failed to set aside the just, such large
those who want to enter to harm the public good, and reputation of the country, as many happens,
they forget what they owe to his blood and his nature, abuse of leave narrow interests, the more
times they sometimes have no shame, but only in reward of his villainy.

When they were to split Berenguer, the Emperor sent him to call many times, without being able
to Berenguer believe that I would let him. Emperor Ofreciéronle certain men to undertake Malvasia
Berenguer two galleys, and avenge the low estimate that by their friendship, and together charge
them a galley, which had to match Berenguer service, but the Emperor did not allowed to run,
because he thought reduced. Berenguer That night he set sail and came to Gallipoli, where he
found all things full of a thousand suspicions and misgivings.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Da Emperor Andronicus in fief to the Captains Catalans and Aragonese, the provinces of Asia. 

The
Emperor wished to divide the Catalans each other, then further punish his poderles safe. Roger
returned to persuade him before through family Canavurio Minister His mother Irene, who after going
back and forth many times from Gallipoli to Constantinople, arranged the biggest deal for the
Catalans, who might want to increase your greatness and if, as they were offered to comply, but the
insolence of the soldiers, the envy of the Greeks, bartered child's body and fans love to Andronico
had our stuff in mortal hatred, and so was determined between the Emperor and his son give
honorable apparent satisfacion to the Catalans, and secretly plot his downfall and ruin, although
this does not say the historians, leave easily understand what they later became. Andronico through
this Canavurio, Forced fear of weapons of the Catalans, and relief that fame had published
who came from Sicily, and that as long pay was the imperial treasury and camera destroyed and that
the income of the Empire were not sufficient for the ordinary expenses and forced, and Prince as
he played to prevent the remedy and required them as captains and friends debian to help implement
what everyone cared anyway. Finally he agreed to between the Emperor and Roger, after long
and heavy consultations, the following. Since then Andronico give the provinces of Asia in fief
to the rich men, and gentlemen Catalanes and Aragon, with the obligation that whenever they were
called and required by him or by his successors, come to serve at his expense, and that the Emperor
was not obliged to give after the conclusion of this deal pay people
to war, they just had to help each year with thirty thousand crowns,
and one hundred and twenty thousand bushels of wheat, giving them
money the pay runs until the day of the concert.

With this deal were our things, apparently in supreme greatness, because the Catalans were lords
of all the Provinces Asia, and by giving them the Emperor paid for their services, and because they
won arms, and escaped the bondage of the Turks: titles that any of them was enough to give them
the right to dominion of them all. This was one of the most marked of this expedition, and that
more can illustrate the Catalan and Aragonese nation, because when Romans conquered Mithridates,
won the Asia, achieved one of its greatest glories, and that the
value of many famous captains and armies conquered in many years,
acquired ours in less than two, and if by deception and betrayal will
not stop its fortunes, were absolute lords and princes of Asia, and
perhaps if stored, stopped the Turks in principle, and do not give
rise to dilate or enlarge the limits of the immense Empire that now
possess.

These concerts are sworn before the statue of the Virgin, the ancient custom of the empire.
  At last she cried loudly with an effort, "Giles! you may come in!"

There was no immediate answer to her cry, and overpowered by her own temerity, Grace retreated
quickly, shut the door, and stood looking on the floor.  But it was not for long.  She again
lifted the latch, and with far more determination than at first.

"Giles, Giles!" she cried, with the full strength of her voice, and without any of the shamefacedness
that had characterized her first cry. "Oh, come in--come in!  Where are you?  I have been wicked.
I have thought too much of myself!  Do you hear?  I don't want to keep you out any longer.
I cannot bear that you should suffer so.  Gi-i-iles!"

A reply! It was a reply! Through the darkness and wind a voice reached her, floating upon the
weather as though a part of it.

"Here I am--all right.  Don't trouble about me."

"Don't you want to come in? Are you not ill? I don't mind what they say, or what they think
any more."

"I am all right," he repeated.  "It is not necessary for me to come. Good-night! good-night!"

Grace sighed, turned and shut the door slowly.  Could she have been mistaken about his health?
Perhaps, after all, she had perceived a change in him because she had not seen him for so long.
Time sometimes did his ageing work in jerks, as she knew. Well, she had done all she could.
He would not come in.  She retired to rest again.

CHAPTER XLII.

The next morning Grace was at the window early.  She felt determined to see him somehow that
day, and prepared his breakfast eagerly.  Eight o'clock struck, and she had remembered that
he had not come to arouse her by a knocking, as usual, her own anxiety having caused her to stir.

The breakfast was set in its place without.  But he did not arrive to take it; and she waited
on.  Nine o'clock arrived, and the breakfast was cold; and still there was no Giles.  A thrush,
that had been repeating itself a good deal on an opposite bush for some time, came and took
a morsel from the plate and bolted it, waited, looked around, and took another.  At ten o'clock
she drew in the tray, and sat down to her own solitary meal.  He must have been called away
on business early, the rain having cleared off.

Yet she would have liked to assure herself, by thoroughly exploring the precincts of the hut,
that he was nowhere in its vicinity; but as the day was comparatively fine, the dread lest
some stray passenger or woodman should encounter her in such a reconnoitre paralyzed her wish.
The solitude was further accentuated to-day by the stopping of the clock for want of winding,
and the fall into the chimney-corner of flakes of soot loosened by the rains.  At noon she
heard a slight rustling outside the window, and found that it was caused by an eft which had
crept out of the leaves to bask in the last sun-rays that would be worth having till the following
May.

She continually peeped out through the lattice, but could see little. In front lay the brown
leaves of last year, and upon them some yellowish-green ones of this season that had been prematurely
blown down by the gale.  Above stretched an old beech, with vast armpits, and great pocket-holes
in its sides where branches had been amputated in past times; a black slug was trying to climb
it. Dead boughs were scattered about like ichthyosauri in a museum, and beyond them were perishing
woodbine stems resembling old ropes.

From the other window all she could see were more trees, jacketed with lichen and stockinged
with moss.  At their roots were stemless yellow fungi like lemons and apricots, and tall fungi
with more stem than stool.  Next were more trees close together, wrestling for existence, their
branches disfigured with wounds resulting from their mutual rubbings and blows.  It was the
struggle between these neighbors that she had heard in the night. Beneath them were the rotting
stumps of those of the group that had been vanquished long ago, rising from their mossy setting
like decayed teeth from green gums.  Farther on were other tufts of moss in islands divided
by the shed leaves--variety upon variety, dark green and pale green; moss-like little fir-trees,
like plush, like malachite stars, like nothing on earth except moss.

The strain upon Grace's mind in various ways was so great on this the most desolate day she
had passed there that she felt it would be well-nigh impossible to spend another in such circumstances.
The evening came at last; the sun, when its chin was on the earth, found an opening through
which to pierce the shade, and stretched irradiated gauzes across the damp atmosphere, making
the wet trunks shine, and throwing splotches of such ruddiness on the leaves beneath the beech
that they were turned to gory hues.  When night at last arrived, and with it the time for his
return, she was nearly broken down with suspense.

The simple evening meal, partly tea, partly supper, which Grace had prepared, stood waiting
upon the hearth; and yet Giles did not come. It was now nearly twenty-four hours since she
had seen him. As the room grew darker, and only the firelight broke against the gloom of the
walls, she was convinced that it would be beyond her staying power to pass the night without
hearing from him or from somebody.  Yet eight o'clock drew on, and his form at the window did
not appear.

The meal remained untasted.  Suddenly rising from before the hearth of smouldering embers,
where she had been crouching with her hands clasped over her knees, she crossed the room, unlocked
the door, and listened. Every breath of wind had ceased with the decline of day, but the rain
had resumed the steady dripping of the night before.  Grace might have stood there five minutes
when she fancied she heard that old sound, a cough, at no great distance; and it was presently
repeated.  If it were Winterborne's, he must be near her; why, then, had he not visited her?

A horrid misgiving that he could not visit her took possession of Grace, and she looked up
anxiously for the lantern, which was hanging above her head.  To light it and go in the direction
of the sound would be the obvious way to solve the dread problem; but the conditions made her
hesitate, and in a moment a cold sweat pervaded her at further sounds from the same quarter.

They were low mutterings; at first like persons in conversation, but gradually resolving themselves
into varieties of one voice. It was an endless monologue, like that we sometimes hear from
inanimate nature in deep secret places where water flows, or where ivy leaves flap against
stones; but by degrees she was convinced that the voice was Winterborne's.  Yet who could be
his listener, so mute and patient; for though he argued so rapidly and persistently, nobody
replied.

A dreadful enlightenment spread through the mind of Grace.  "Oh," she cried, in her anguish,
as she hastily prepared herself to go out, "how selfishly correct I am always--too, too correct!
Cruel propriety is killing the dearest heart that ever woman clasped to her own."

While speaking thus to herself she had lit the lantern, and hastening out without further thought,
took the direction whence the mutterings had proceeded.  The course was marked by a little
path, which ended at a distance of about forty yards in a small erection of hurdles, not much
larger than a shock of corn, such as were frequent in the woods and copses when the cutting
season was going on.  It was too slight even to be called a hovel, and was not high enough
to stand upright in; appearing, in short, to be erected for the temporary shelter of fuel.
The side towards Grace was open, and turning the light upon the interior, she beheld what her
prescient fear had pictured in snatches all the way thither.

Upon the straw within, Winterborne lay in his clothes, just as she had seen him during the
whole of her stay here, except that his hat was off, and his hair matted and wild.

Both his clothes and the straw were saturated with rain.  His arms were flung over his head;
his face was flushed to an unnatural crimson.  His eyes had a burning brightness, and though
they met her own, she perceived that he did not recognize her.

"Oh, my Giles," she cried, "what have I done to you!"

But she stopped no longer even to reproach herself.  She saw that the first thing to be thought
of was to get him indoors.

How Grace performed that labor she never could have exactly explained. But by dint of clasping
her arms round him, rearing him into a sitting posture, and straining her strength to the uttermost,
she put him on one of the hurdles that was loose alongside, and taking the end of it in both
her hands, dragged him along the path to the entrance of the hut, and, after a pause for breath,
in at the door-way.

It was somewhat singular that Giles in his semi-conscious state acquiesced unresistingly in
all that she did.  But he never for a moment recognized her--continuing his rapid conversation
to himself, and seeming to look upon her as some angel, or other supernatural creature of the
visionary world in which he was mentally living.  The undertaking occupied her more than ten
minutes; but by that time, to her great thankfulness, he was in the inner room, lying on the
bed, his damp outer clothing removed.

Then the unhappy Grace regarded him by the light of the candle. There was something in his
look which agonized her, in the rush of his thoughts, accelerating their speed from minute
to minute.  He seemed to be passing through the universe of ideas like a comet--erratic, inapprehensible,
untraceable.

Grace's distraction was almost as great as his.  In a few moments she firmly believed he was
dying.  Unable to withstand her impulse, she knelt down beside him, kissed his hands and his
face and his hair, exclaiming, in a low voice, "How could I? How could I?"

Her timid morality had, indeed, underrated his chivalry till now, though she knew him so well.
The purity of his nature, his freedom from the grosser passions, his scrupulous delicacy, had
never been fully understood by Grace till this strange self-sacrifice in lonely juxtaposition
to her own person was revealed. The perception of it added something that was little short
of reverence to the deep affection for him of a woman who, herself, had more of Artemis than
of Aphrodite in her constitution.

All that a tender nurse could do, Grace did; and the power to express her solicitude in action,
unconscious though the sufferer was, brought her mournful satisfaction.  She bathed his hot
head, wiped his perspiring hands, moistened his lips, cooled his fiery eyelids, sponged his
heated skin, and administered whatever she could find in the house that the imagination could
conceive as likely to be in any way alleviating.  That she might have been the cause, or partially
the cause, of all this, interfused misery with her sorrow.

Six months before this date a scene, almost similar in its mechanical parts, had been enacted
at Hintock House.  It was between a pair of persons most intimately connected in their lives
with these.  Outwardly like as it had been, it was yet infinite in spiritual difference, though
a woman's devotion had been common to both.

Grace rose from her attitude of affection, and, bracing her energies, saw that something practical
must immediately be done. Much as she would have liked, in the emotion of the moment, to keep
him entirely to herself, medical assistance was necessary while there remained a possibility
of preserving him alive.  Such assistance was fatal to her own concealment; but even had the
chance of benefiting him been less than it was, she would have run the hazard for his sake.
The question was, where should she get a medical man, competent and near?

There was one such man, and only one, within accessible distance; a man who, if it were possible
to save Winterborne's life, had the brain most likely to do it.  If human pressure could bring
him, that man ought to be brought to the sick Giles's side.  The attempt should be made.

Yet she dreaded to leave her patient, and the minutes raced past, and yet she postponed her
departure.  At last, when it was after eleven o'clock, Winterborne fell into a fitful sleep,
and it seemed to afford her an opportunity.

She hastily made him as comfortable as she could, put on her things, cut a new candle from
the bunch hanging in the cupboard, and having set it up, and placed it so that the light did
not fall upon his eyes, she closed the door and started.

The spirit of Winterborne seemed to keep her company and banish all sense of darkness from
her mind.  The rains had imparted a phosphorescence to the pieces of touchwood and rotting
leaves that lay about her path, which, as scattered by her feet, spread abroad like spilt milk.
She would not run the hazard of losing her way by plunging into any short, unfrequented track
through the denser parts of the woodland, but followed a more open course, which eventually
brought her to the highway.  Once here, she ran along with great speed, animated by a devoted
purpose which had much about it that was stoical; and it was with scarcely any faltering of
spirit that, after an hour's progress, she passed over Rubdown Hill, and onward towards that
same Hintock, and that same house, out of which she had fled a few days before in irresistible
alarm. But that had happened which, above all other things of chance and change, could make
her deliberately frustrate her plan of flight and sink all regard of personal consequences.

One speciality of Fitzpiers's was respected by Grace as much as ever--his professional skill.
In this she was right.  Had his persistence equalled his insight, instead of being the spasmodic
and fitful thing it was, fame and fortune need never have remained a wish with him.  His freedom
from conventional errors and crusted prejudices had, indeed, been such as to retard rather
than accelerate his advance in Hintock and its neighborhood, where people could not believe
that nature herself effected cures, and that the doctor's business was only to smooth the way.

It was past midnight when Grace arrived opposite her father's house, now again temporarily
occupied by her husband, unless he had already gone away.  Ever since her emergence from the
denser plantations about Winterborne's residence a pervasive lightness had hung in the damp
autumn sky, in spite of the vault of cloud, signifying that a moon of some age was shining
above its arch. The two white gates were distinct, and the white balls on the pillars, and
the puddles and damp ruts left by the recent rain, had a cold, corpse-eyed luminousness.  She
entered by the lower gate, and crossed the quadrangle to the wing wherein the apartments that
had been hers since her marriage were situate, till she stood under a window which, if her
husband were in the house, gave light to his bedchamber.

She faltered, and paused with her hand on her heart, in spite of herself.  Could she call to
her presence the very cause of all her foregoing troubles? Alas!--old Jones was seven miles
off; Giles was possibly dying--what else could she do?

It was in a perspiration, wrought even more by consciousness than by exercise, that she picked
up some gravel, threw it at the panes, and waited to see the result.  The night-bell which
had been fixed when Fitzpiers first took up his residence there still remained; but as it had
fallen into disuse with the collapse of his practice, and his elopement, she did not venture
to pull it now.

Whoever slept in the room had heard her signal, slight as it was. In half a minute the window
was opened, and a voice said "Yes?" inquiringly.  Grace recognized her husband in the speaker
at once. Her effort was now to disguise her own accents.

"Doctor," she said, in as unusual a tone as she could command, "a man is dangerously ill in
One-chimney Hut, out towards Delborough, and you must go to him at once--in all mercy!"

"I will, readily."

The alacrity, surprise, and pleasure expressed in his reply amazed her for a moment.  But,
in truth, they denoted the sudden relief of a man who, having got back in a mood of contrition,
from erratic abandonment to fearful joys, found the soothing routine of professional practice
unexpectedly opening anew to him.  The highest desire of his soul just now was for a respectable
life of painstaking.  If this, his first summons since his return, had been to attend upon
a cat or dog, he would scarcely have refused it in the circumstances.

"Do you know the way?" she asked.

"Yes," said he.

"One-chimney Hut," she repeated.  "And--immediately!"

"Yes, yes," said Fitzpiers.

Grace remained no longer.  She passed out of the white gate without slamming it, and hastened
on her way back.  Her husband, then, had re-entered her father's house.  How he had been able
to effect a reconciliation with the old man, what were the terms of the treaty between them,
she could not so much as conjecture. Some sort of truce must have been entered into, that was
all she could say.  But close as the question lay to her own life, there was a more urgent
one which banished it; and she traced her steps quickly along the meandering track-ways.

Meanwhile, Fitzpiers was preparing to leave the house.  The state of his mind, over and above
his professional zeal, was peculiar. At Grace's first remark he had not recognized or suspected
her presence; but as she went on, he was awakened to the great resemblance of the speaker's
voice to his wife's.  He had taken in such good faith the statement of the household on his
arrival, that she had gone on a visit for a time because she could not at once bring her mind
to be reconciled to him, that he could not quite actually believe this comer to be she.  It
was one of the features of Fitzpiers's repentant humor at this date that, on receiving the
explanation of her absence, he had made no attempt to outrage her feelings by following her;
though nobody had informed him how very shortly her departure had preceded his entry, and of
all that might have been inferred from her precipitancy.

Melbury, after much alarm and consideration, had decided not to follow her either.  He sympathized
with her flight, much as he deplored it; moreover, the tragic color of the antecedent events
that he had been a great means of creating checked his instinct to interfere.  He prayed and
trusted that she had got into no danger on her way (as he supposed) to Sherton, and thence
to Exbury, if that were the place she had gone to, forbearing all inquiry which the strangeness
of her departure would have made natural.  A few months before this time a performance by Grace
of one-tenth the magnitude of this would have aroused him to unwonted investigation.

It was in the same spirit that he had tacitly assented to Fitzpiers's domicilation there. 
The two men had not met face to face, but Mrs. Melbury had proposed herself as an intermediary,
who made the surgeon's re-entrance comparatively easy to him. Everything was provisional, and
nobody asked questions.  Fitzpiers had come in the performance of a plan of penitence, which
had originated in circumstances hereafter to be explained; his self-humiliation to the very
bass-string was deliberate; and as soon as a call reached him from the bedside of a dying man
his desire was to set to work and do as much good as he could with the least possible fuss
or show.  He therefore refrained from calling up a stableman to get ready any horse or gig,
and set out for One-chimney Hut on foot, as Grace had done.

CHAPTER XLIII.

She re-entered the hut, flung off her bonnet and cloak, and approached the sufferer.  He had
begun anew those terrible mutterings, and his hands were cold.  As soon as she saw him there
returned to her that agony of mind which the stimulus of her journey had thrown off for a time.

Could he really be dying? She bathed him, kissed him, forgot all things but the fact that lying
there before her was he who had loved her more than the mere lover would have loved; had martyred
himself for her comfort, cared more for her self-respect than she had thought of caring.  This
mood continued till she heard quick, smart footsteps without; she knew whose footsteps they were.

Grace sat on the inside of the bed against the wall, holding Giles's hand, so that when her
husband entered the patient lay between herself and him.  He stood transfixed at first, noticing
Grace only.  Slowly he dropped his glance and discerned who the prostrate man was.  Strangely
enough, though Grace's distaste for her husband's company had amounted almost to dread, and
culminated in actual flight, at this moment her last and least feeling was personal.  Sensitive
femininity was eclipsed by self-effacing purpose, and that it was a husband who stood there
was forgotten. The first look that possessed her face was relief; satisfaction at the presence
of the physician obliterated thought of the man, which only returned in the form of a sub-consciousness
that did not interfere with her words.

"Is he dying--is there any hope?" she cried.

"Grace!" said Fitzpiers, in an indescribable whisper--more than invocating, if not quite deprecatory.

He was arrested by the spectacle, not so much in its intrinsic character--though that was striking
enough to a man who called himself the husband of the sufferer's friend and nurse--but in its
character as the counterpart of one that had its hour many months before, in which he had figured
as the patient, and the woman had been Felice Charmond.

"Is he in great danger--can you save him?" she cried again.

Fitzpiers aroused himself, came a little nearer, and examined Winterborne as he stood.  His
inspection was concluded in a mere glance.  Before he spoke he looked at her contemplatively
as to the effect of his coming words.

"He is dying," he said, with dry precision.

"What?" said she.

"Nothing can be done, by me or any other man.  It will soon be all over.  The extremities are
dead already."  His eyes still remained fixed on her; the conclusion to which he had come seeming
to end his interest, professional and otherwise, in Winterborne forever.

"But it cannot be!  He was well three days ago."

"Not well, I suspect.  This seems like a secondary attack, which has followed some previous
illness--possibly typhoid--it may have been months ago, or recently."

"Ah--he was not well--you are right.  He was ill--he was ill when I came."

There was nothing more to do or say.  She crouched down at the side of the bed, and Fitzpiers
took a seat.  Thus they remained in silence, and long as it lasted she never turned her eyes,
or apparently her thoughts, at all to her husband.  He occasionally murmured, with automatic
authority, some slight directions for alleviating the pain of the dying man, which she mechanically
obeyed, bending over him during the intervals in silent tears.

Winterborne never recovered consciousness of what was passing; and that he was going became
soon perceptible also to her.  In less than an hour the delirium ceased; then there was an
interval of somnolent painlessness and soft breathing, at the end of which Winterborne passed
quietly away.

Then Fitzpiers broke the silence.  "Have you lived here long?" said he.

Grace was wild with sorrow--with all that had befallen her--with the cruelties that had attacked
her--with life--with Heaven.  She answered at random.  "Yes.  By what right do you ask?"

"Don't think I claim any right," said Fitzpiers, sadly.  "It is for you to do and say what
you choose.  I admit, quite as much as you feel, that I am a vagabond--a brute--not worthy
to possess the smallest fragment of you.  But here I am, and I have happened to take sufficient
interest in you to make that inquiry."

"He is everything to me!" said Grace, hardly heeding her husband, and laying her hand reverently
on the dead man's eyelids, where she kept it a long time, pressing down their lashes with gentle
touches, as if she were stroking a little bird.

He watched her a while, and then glanced round the chamber where his eyes fell upon a few dressing
necessaries that she had brought.

"Grace--if I may call you so," he said, "I have been already humiliated almost to the depths.
I have come back since you refused to join me elsewhere--I have entered your father's house,
and borne all that that cost me without flinching, because I have felt that I deserved humiliation.
But is there a yet greater humiliation in store for me? You say you have been living here--that
he is everything to you.  Am I to draw from that the obvious, the extremest inference?"

Triumph at any price is sweet to men and women--especially the latter. It was her first and
last opportunity of repaying him for the cruel contumely which she had borne at his hands so
docilely.

"Yes," she answered; and there was that in her subtly compounded nature which made her feel
a thrill of pride as she did so.

Yet the moment after she had so mightily belied her character she half repented.  Her husband
had turned as white as the wall behind him.  It seemed as if all that remained to him of life
and spirit had been abstracted at a stroke.  Yet he did not move, and in his efforts at self-control
closed his mouth together as a vice.  His determination was fairly successful, though she saw
how very much greater than she had expected her triumph had been.  Presently he looked across
at Winterborne.

"Would it startle you to hear," he said, as if he hardly had breath to utter the words, "that
she who was to me what he was to you is dead also?"

"Dead--SHE dead?" exclaimed Grace.

"Yes.  Felice Charmond is where this young man is."

"Never!" said Grace, vehemently.

He went on without heeding the insinuation: "And I came back to try to make it up with you--but--"

Fitzpiers rose, and moved across the room to go away, looking downward with the droop of a
man whose hope was turned to apathy, if not despair.  In going round the door his eye fell
upon her once more.  She was still bending over the body of Winterborne, her face close to
the young man's.

"Have you been kissing him during his illness?" asked her husband.

"Yes."

"Since his fevered state set in?"

"Yes."

"On his lips?"

"Yes."

"Then you will do well to take a few drops of this in water as soon as possible." He drew a
small phial from his pocket and returned to offer it to her.

Grace shook her head.

"If you don't do as I tell you you may soon be like him."

"I don't care.  I wish to die."

"I'll put it here," said Fitzpiers, placing the bottle on a ledge beside him.  "The sin of
not having warned you will not be upon my head at any rate, among my other sins.  I am now
going, and I will send somebody to you.  Your father does not know that you are here, so I
suppose I shall be bound to tell him?"

"Certainly."

Fitzpiers left the cot, and the stroke of his feet was soon immersed in the silence that pervaded
the spot.  Grace remained kneeling and weeping, she hardly knew how long, and then she sat
up, covered poor Giles's features, and went towards the door where her husband had stood. 
No sign of any other comer greeted her ear, the only perceptible sounds being the tiny cracklings
of the dead leaves, which, like a feather-bed, had not yet done rising to their normal level
where indented by the pressure of her husband's receding footsteps.  It reminded her that she
had been struck with the change in his aspect; the extremely intellectual look that had always
been in his face was wrought to a finer phase by thinness, and a care-worn dignity had been
superadded.  She returned to Winterborne's side, and during her meditations another tread drew
near the door, entered the outer room, and halted at the entrance of the chamber where Grace was.

"What--Marty!" said Grace.

"Yes.  I have heard," said Marty, whose demeanor had lost all its girlishness under the stroke
that seemed almost literally to have bruised her.

"He died for me!" murmured Grace, heavily.

Marty did not fully comprehend; and she answered, "He belongs to neither of us now, and your
beauty is no more powerful with him than my plainness.  I have come to help you, ma'am.  He
never cared for me, and he cared much for you; but he cares for us both alike now."

"Oh don't, don't, Marty!"

Marty said no more, but knelt over Winterborne from the other side.

"Did you meet my hus--Mr. Fitzpiers?"

"Then what brought you here?"

"I come this way sometimes.  I have got to go to the farther side of the wood this time of
the year, and am obliged to get there before four o'clock in the morning, to begin heating
the oven for the early baking. I have passed by here often at this time."

Grace looked at her quickly.  "Then did you know I was here?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"Did you tell anybody?"

"No.  I knew you lived in the hut, that he had gied it up to ye, and lodged out himself."

"Did you know where he lodged?"

"No.  That I couldn't find out.  Was it at Delborough?"

"No.  It was not there, Marty.  Would it had been! It would have saved--saved--" To check her
tears she turned, and seeing a book on the window-bench, took it up.  "Look, Marty, this is
a Psalter. He was not an outwardly religious man, but he was pure and perfect in his heart.
Shall we read a psalm over him?"

"Oh yes--we will--with all my heart!"

Grace opened the thin brown book, which poor Giles had kept at hand mainly for the convenience
of whetting his pen-knife upon its leather covers.  She began to read in that rich, devotional
voice peculiar to women only on such occasions.  When it was over, Marty said, "I should like
to pray for his soul."

"So should I," said her companion.  "But we must not."

"Why? Nobody would know."

Grace could not resist the argument, influenced as she was by the sense of making amends for
having neglected him in the body; and their tender voices united and filled the narrow room
with supplicatory murmurs that a Calvinist might have envied.  They had hardly ended when now
and more numerous foot-falls were audible, also persons in conversation, one of whom Grace
recognized as her father.

She rose, and went to the outer apartment, in which there was only such light as beamed from
the inner one.  Melbury and Mrs. Melbury were standing there. 

Even the mayor was here, to serve on what was good. And the police, excellent boys who live among
us and are almost family, hacíanse aside, understanding the situation and not wanting to miss
a few poor.

- To earth, boys - screaming our pattern -. Let's run aground.

What matters is to in bundles and save people. The Socarrao already know this evil out of
step.

And cloth unfolded almost rammed the beach, digging the bow into the
sand.

Lord, what way of working! Still seems like a dream when I remember. The whole town was thrown
on boat, took by assault: the youngsters like mice slipped into the cove.

- Quick! Quick! What are the government!

Packages jumped from the roof: they fell into the water, where men gathered barefoot and women
with the skirt between the legs, some disappearing around here, others
were on there, was something seen and unseen, and soon disappeared
while loading, as if he had swallowed sand.

A wave of flooding to snuff Torresalinas, seeping into every home.

The mayor intervened paternally.

- Men, too - said the pattern -. Have it all, and the police complain. Leave at least some packages
in order to justify apprehension.

Our master was satisfied.

- Well: do a few packages with two bundles of the worst sting. To
be content with that.

And he went into town, taking in the chest all the documents of the boat. But even stopped for
a moment, because that devil of a man was in everything.

- The sheets! Delete pages!

It seemed that the boat had left legs.

Was out of the water and dragged by sand in the middle of that crowd seethed and work, animated
with happy cries.

- What a disappointment! What a disappointment will be the government!

The companion of the broken leg was carried aloft by his wife and
mother.

The poor man groaned of sharp pain with every movement, but swallowed the tears and laughed too
as the others, seeing that the cargo was saved and thinking of that disappointment which made
everyone laugh.

When the last bales were lost in the streets of Torresalinas began the plunder of the boat.
The crowd took the sails, anchors, oars, to dismantle the mast, was loaded on the shoulders
of a crowd of boys, leading him in procession to the other end of people. The boat was made
a pontoon, as bare as you see it.

Meanwhile, the shipwrights, brush in hand, he paints he paints. The Socarrao is disfigured
Roma as a donkey. With four strokes was erased the name of stern and folios the sides of those
damn signs, which are the charter of any vessel, was not trace.

The striker dropped anchor at the same time disappearing into the
edge of town the past remains of the boat.

I stood on this site, wanting to see everything, and more openly helped some friends who were
putting to sea a fishing boat.

The striker sent an armed boat, and jumped to the ground do not know
how many men with a rifle and bayonet.

The boatswain, who was leading, swore furiously looking at the Socarrao and carabinieri, who
had seized him.

Torresalinas entire neighborhood laughed at that hour, celebrating
the disappointment, and even had laughed more, seeing as I, the face
that put those people to find all cargo a few packages of snuff bad.

-
What happened next? - Asked the old man -.

Do not punish anybody?

- Who?

Could only punish the poor Socarrao, which was taken. Is dirty lot of paper and half the town
was to testify, but nobody knew anything. What was the enrollment boat? Silence, no one had seen the
folios. About the manned? Some men the beach had run inland. And nobody knew more.

- And the cargo? "- I said.

- I completely sold. You do not know what poverty is. When stranded, each grabbed the bundle
that was at hand and ran to hide at home.

But the day were all available following the pattern: not lost even a pound of snuff. The
exposing the bread of life and every day you see the face of death, are freer temptations than
others ...

- Since then - continued the old man - who is here imprisoned Socarrao poor. But do not take
in going to sea with his old master. Seems to have completed paperwork, bring him out to auction
and it will be the pattern for what you want to.

- What if another more?

- Who has to be that? Are we outlaws? All the people know who the real master of the ship abandoned,
and nobody has so badly hurt heart to try. Here much honesty. To each what is his: the sea, which
is of God, to us poor, we have to remove the bread from him, but does not want the government.

The
dummy

Nine years had passed since Louis Santurce was separated from his wife. After he had been involved
in silk and tulle at the bottom of elegant carriage, passing before him in a flash beauty, or had
guessed from the paradise of Real, down there in a box, surrounded of men who were fighting the
murmuring something in her ear to show off an intimacy smiling.

These events removed in all the sediment of the last wrath had fled forever his wife as a patient
who fears the resurgence of their ailments, and yet, now would to meet, to see it and speak
it at the hotel de la Castellana, which was insolent luxury the witness of his disgrace.

The rough movements rental car seemed to blow past memories from all
corners of his memory.

That life did not want to remember, was developing with your eyes closed: their honeymoon modest
employee married to a beautiful woman, educated, daughter of a family fallen on hard times,
the joy of that first year of poverty sweetened by affection, then tossing Enriqueta protests against
the narrowness, the deaf displeasure at being called beautiful by all and be humbly dressed,
the troubles emerging for the slightest reason, the brawls at midnight in the marital bedroom,
the gnawing suspicion Gradually confidence husband, and suddenly the unexpected rise, material
wealth slipping through the door, timidly at first, and avoiding
the scandal, then insolent display, as believing enter a world of
blind people, until they finally Louis had the unquestionable proof
of his misfortune.

He was ashamed to remember his weakness. It was not a coward was sure of it, but lacked the will
or loved him too, and therefore, when after an embarrassing intelligence was convinced of his
disgrace, he knew only raise the clenched hand that beautiful doll face pale, and ended up not strike
a blow. Only had the strength to throw the house and mourn as an abandoned child just closed the
door.

Then complete solitude, the monotony of isolation, interrupted by news that they hurt. His wife
was traveling through central Europe as a princess, a millionaire had released, this was their
very existence, for what he was born. A winter call attention in Paris, the newspapers talked
about the beautiful Spanish, and his triumphs on the beaches were
noisy fashion, tried to ruin an honor for her, and several duels and
certain rumors of suicide were around his name a legend environment.

After three year would be triumphant, returned to Madrid, its beauty enhanced by the strange
charm of cosmopolitanism. Now protect the richest businessman in Spain, and in his splendid
court ruled on a hotel only for men: ministers, bankers, political influence, characters of all
classes who sought his smile as the best of his decorations.

So great was his power, until Luis believed to feel around him, seeing that political situations
were happening without being touched their jobs. The fear to fight for the sustaining life
made him accept this situation, in which sensed the hidden hand Harriet.

Solo and sentenced to work for a living, I felt, however, the shame of wretch whose only claim
to be the husband of a beautiful woman. Was worthless running away when its path, insolent and
triumphant in his disgrace, to escape persecution those eyes that were fixed on him with surprise,
pride of women losing their coveted.

One day he received a visit from an old priest and timid-looking, the same who now sat with him
in the car. He was the confessor of his wife. Well had learned to choose! A man kind, short-sighted.
When you say who sent him, Luis could not contain himself: "Valiente such, 'and let the insult round.
But the good old imperturbable as he brings learned discourse and are afraid to forget if it
is slow release, he spoke of Magdalena sinful, the Lord that being who he was, had forgiven him
and passing to the plain style and natural, had transformation suffered by Harriet. I was
sick, barely out of his hotel, a disease that gnawed her womb, a
cancer that had to be tamed with continuous injections of morphine
for did not faint and roar of pain with his cruel scratches.

Misfortune had have turned their eyes to God repented of the past, wanted to see ...

And he, the cowardly man, jumped with joy on hearing this, weak with
satisfaction that is avenged.

A cancer! ... The luxury damn rotting inside her, making her die in life! And always so beautiful,
right? What sweet revenge! ... No, not go to see it. It was useless arguments that seek healing.
Could visit whenever he wanted and give news of his wife: that he was very happy and now understand
why men are bad.

Since then the priest visited him almost every evening, smoking a few cigars, speaking of Harriet,
and sometimes went out together, walking on the outskirts of Madrid old friends.

The disease progressed rapidly convinced that Harriet was going to
die.

Wanted him to beg his forgiveness, calling it a tone of whimsical and ill child requiring a
toy. To the other, the powerful protector, gentle disposition despite his omnipotence, he begged
the priest to take them to the hotel to the husband of Harriet. The good old man spoke with
fervor of the conversion touching the lady, although admitting that the cursed estate, loss
of so many souls, still dominated. Her illness was a prisoner in her home, but at times of
calm, when the rogue pain did not go back and forth like crazy, flipping through catalogs and figurines
in Paris, wrote to its suppliers there, and rare was the week that did not reach drawers with the
latest news: costumes, hats and jewelry, after targeted and hands a day in the closed room, fell
into the corners or hiding forever in closets, and useless toys. For all these fads going the
other, provided to see Harriet smiling.

These confidences were continuing to slowly penetrate Luis in the life of his wife was by far
the course of their disease and not a day passed without rozase with that mentally being, we had
departed forever.

A priest was later presented with unusual energy. This lady was in the past, we called aloud,
was a crime to deny the last consolation to a dying, and he does
not consented.

He felt able to take it by force. Luis, defeated by the will of the old, left Drag and got into a
car, mentally insulting, but no strength to back ... Coward! Coward forever!

In pursuit of the black cassock crossed the garden of the hotel many
times, going by the immediate walk, had spied with looks of hate ...
And now, nothing, no hate or pain: a strong sense curiosity, like
entering unknown country, savoring the wonders ahead he expects to
see.

Inside the hotel the same feeling of curiosity and wonder. Ah, wretch! How often in dreams of his
will impotent, was seen entering the house as a husband drama, gun in hand to kill his unfaithful
wife, and destroying afterwards, as a wild beast, expensive furniture,
rich draperies, fluffy carpet!

And now tenderness he felt under his feet, the beautiful colors by sliding his eyes, the flowers
that greeted him with her perfume from the corners, an intoxication causábanle eunuch and felt impulses
to lie in that furniture, to take possession, as if he belonged, being of his wife. Now he understood
what was wealth, and how hard hung over their slaves. Was already on the first floor, and had not
even seen, in the solemn quiet hotel, none of these details is revealed
in death as they enter a home.

Saw as impassive mask reared after thought he saw a gesture of insolent curiosity: a girl greeted
him with enigmatic smile, it was not known whether it was sympathy
or mockery "The husband of the lady", he believed distinguished in
an adjoining room a man who was hiding (Maybe it was the other), and
stunned by this new world, went through a door, gently pushed for
his guidance.

Was in the bedroom of the lady: a room engulfed in soft shadows, ripping a strip of sun filtering
through a balcony ajar.

In the midst of this beam of light was a straight woman, slender, pink, dressed in a beautiful
soirée dress, the pearly emerging from behind clouds of lace, and
chest and head with the dazzling sparkle of the jewels.

Luis back amazed, protesting the farce. "That was the sick? Had he been called to insult?

- Luis ... Luis !...-- groaned behind him a weak voice, with intonation and gentle child, reminding
him the past, the best moments of his life.

His eyes, already accustomed to the darkness, saw in the back of the room something monumental and
terrible as an altar, a bed stands, and which, under the undulating curtains, incorporating
work was a white figure.

Then he noticed the motionless woman, who seemed to wait with her slender stiff and his eyes of
vague look like blurred by tears.

It was a mannequin art bore some resemblance with Harriet. The best served to consider developments
that continuously received Paris.

It was the only actor in the representations of elegance and wealth that was given alone a remedy
for his illness.

- Luis ... Luis !...-- groaned again the little voice from the bottom
of the bed.

Sadly it was Luis to her to be grasped by arms that tightened convulsively
and feel a burning mouth seeking hers, imploring forgiveness, while
a cheek received the warm touch of tears.

- Say you forgive me, say
it, Luis, and I may not die.

And the husband, who instinctively tried to repel it, ended up throwing themselves into those arms,
unwittingly repeating the same loving words of the happy times. To his eyes, accustomed to the
darkness, was dialed with every detail of his wife's face.

- Luis, Luis mine! - She said smiling through tears -. How do I find? And I'm not as beautiful
as in our times of happiness ... when I still was not crazy. Tell
me God! tell me what you look like.

Her husband looked at her in
amazement. Beautiful, always beautiful, her beauty and innocent child
that made it so scary. The death was not yet there: only between the
soft perfume Sovereign of the meat of this majestic bed, seemed to
slip a subtle and distant mist of dead, which gave away the rotting
interior mixing in her kisses.

Luis divined the presence of someone
behind him. A man was walking distance, contemplating with a confused
expression, as if drawn there by a superior boost to the will that
he was ashamed. Harriet's husband knew, on average nationwide, the
stern face of that man and entered years, a man of sound principles,
great defender of public morals.

- Tell him to go, Luis! - Cried
the sick -. What does that man there? I just want you you ... I just
want my husband. Forgive me ... was luxury, luxury damned: I needed
money, a lot of money, but love ... just you.

Cried Henrietta showing
his repentance, and the man wept, weak and humble with contempt.

Luis,
who had so often thought of him with fits of anger, and had been seeing
him impulses to throw around his neck, finally looking at him with
sympathy and respect. We also loved her! And the community on affection
rather than repel, linking the husband and the other with sympathy
strange.

- Let him go, let her go - repeating the sick with a stubborn
child.

And her husband watched the powerful man with pleading, as
if asking forgiveness for his wife, not knowing what he said.

- Come
on, Mrs. Henrietta - said from the back of the room the voice of the
priest -. Think in herself and in God does not commit the sin of pride.

The
two men, the husband and the guard, ended up sitting by the bedside
of the sick. The pain was roaring, we had to give frequent injections,
and the two went solicitous their care. Several times he stumbled
his hands to incorporate Harriet, not separated instinctive revulsion,
but rather, helped with effusion fraternal.

Luis was increasingly
sympathetic to that good man, so smooth treatment despite their million,
and that his wife was crying even more than him.  He walked about the woods that surrounded
Melbury's house, keeping out of sight like a criminal.  It was a fine evening, and on his way
homeward he passed near Marty South's cottage.  As usual she had lighted her candle without
closing her shutters; he saw her within as he had seen her many times before.

She was polishing tools, and though he had not wished to show himself, he could not resist
speaking in to her through the half-open door. "What are you doing that for, Marty?"

"Because I want to clean them.  They are not mine." He could see, indeed, that they were not
hers, for one was a spade, large and heavy, and another was a bill-hook which she could only
have used with both hands.  The spade, though not a new one, had been so completely burnished
that it was bright as silver.

Fitzpiers somehow divined that they were Giles Winterborne's, and he put the question to her.

She replied in the affirmative.  "I am going to keep 'em," she said, "but I can't get his apple-mill
and press.  I wish could; it is going to be sold, they say."

"Then I will buy it for you," said Fitzpiers.  "That will be making you a return for a kindness
you did me."  His glance fell upon the girl's rare-colored hair, which had grown again.  "Oh,
Marty, those locks of yours--and that letter! But it was a kindness to send it, nevertheless,"
he added, musingly.

After this there was confidence between them--such confidence as there had never been before.
Marty was shy, indeed, of speaking about the letter, and her motives in writing it; but she
thanked him warmly for his promise of the cider-press.  She would travel with it in the autumn
season, as he had done, she said.  She would be quite strong enough, with old Creedle as an
assistant.

"Ah! there was one nearer to him than you," said Fitzpiers, referring to Winterborne.  "One
who lived where he lived, and was with him when he died."

Then Marty, suspecting that he did not know the true circumstances, from the fact that Mrs.
Fitzpiers and himself were living apart, told him of Giles's generosity to Grace in giving
up his house to her at the risk, and possibly the sacrifice, of his own life.  When the surgeon
heard it he almost envied Giles his chivalrous character.  He expressed a wish to Marty that
his visit to her should be kept secret, and went home thoughtful, feeling that in more that
one sense his journey to Hintock had not been in vain.

He would have given much to win Grace's forgiveness then.  But whatever he dared hope for in
that kind from the future, there was nothing to be done yet, while Giles Winterborne's memory
was green.  To wait was imperative.  A little time might melt her frozen thoughts, and lead
her to look on him with toleration, if not with love.

CHAPTER XLV.

Weeks and months of mourning for Winterborne had been passed by Grace in the soothing monotony
of the memorial act to which she and Marty had devoted themselves.  Twice a week the pair went
in the dusk to Great Hintock, and, like the two mourners in Cymbeline, sweetened his sad grave
with their flowers and their tears.  Sometimes Grace thought that it was a pity neither one
of them had been his wife for a little while, and given the world a copy of him who was so
valuable in their eyes. Nothing ever had brought home to her with such force as this death
how little acquirements and culture weigh beside sterling personal character. While her simple
sorrow for his loss took a softer edge with the lapse of the autumn and winter seasons, her
self-reproach at having had a possible hand in causing it knew little abatement.

Little occurred at Hintock during these months of the fall and decay of the leaf.  Discussion
of the almost contemporaneous death of Mrs. Charmond abroad had waxed and waned.  Fitzpiers
had had a marvellous escape from being dragged into the inquiry which followed it, through
the accident of their having parted just before under the influence of Marty South's letter--the
tiny instrument of a cause deep in nature.

Her body was not brought home.  It seemed to accord well with the fitful fever of that impassioned
woman's life that she should not have found a native grave.  She had enjoyed but a life-interest
in the estate, which, after her death, passed to a relative of her husband's--one who knew
not Felice, one whose purpose seemed to be to blot out every vestige of her.

On a certain day in February--the cheerful day of St. Valentine, in fact--a letter reached
Mrs. Fitzpiers, which had been mentally promised her for that particular day a long time before.

It announced that Fitzpiers was living at some midland town, where he had obtained a temporary
practice as assistant to some local medical man, whose curative principles were all wrong,
though he dared not set them right.  He had thought fit to communicate with her on that day
of tender traditions to inquire if, in the event of his obtaining a substantial practice that
he had in view elsewhere, she could forget the past and bring herself to join him.

There the practical part ended; he then went on--

"My last year of experience has added ten years to my age, dear Grace and dearest wife that
ever erring man undervalued.  You may be absolutely indifferent to what I say, but let me say
it: I have never loved any woman alive or dead as I love, respect, and honor you at this present
moment.  What you told me in the pride and haughtiness of your heart I never believed [this,
by the way, was not strictly true]; but even if I had believed it, it could never have estranged
me from you. Is there any use in telling you--no, there is not--that I dream of your ripe lips
more frequently than I say my prayers; that the old familiar rustle of your dress often returns
upon my mind till it distracts me? If you could condescend even only to see me again you would
be breathing life into a corpse.  My pure, pure Grace, modest as a turtledove, how came I ever
to possess you? For the sake of being present in your mind on this lovers' day, I think I would
almost rather have you hate me a little than not think of me at all.  You may call my fancies
whimsical; but remember, sweet, lost one, that 'nature is one in love, and where 'tis fine
it sends some instance of itself.'  I will not intrude upon you further now.  Make me a little
bit happy by sending back one line to say that you will consent, at any rate, to a short interview.
I will meet you and leave you as a mere acquaintance, if you will only afford me this slight
means of making a few explanations, and of putting my position before you. Believe me, in spite
of all you may do or feel,

Your lover always (once your husband),

                                               "E."

It was, oddly enough, the first occasion, or nearly the first on which Grace had ever received
a love-letter from him, his courtship having taken place under conditions which rendered letter-writing
unnecessary. Its perusal, therefore, had a certain novelty for her.  She thought that, upon
the whole, he wrote love-letters very well.  But the chief rational interest of the letter
to the reflective Grace lay in the chance that such a meeting as he proposed would afford her
of setting her doubts at rest, one way or the other, on her actual share in Winterborne's death.
The relief of consulting a skilled mind, the one professional man who had seen Giles at that
time, would be immense.  As for that statement that she had uttered in her disdainful grief,
which at the time she had regarded as her triumph, she was quite prepared to admit to him that
his belief was the true one; for in wronging herself as she did when she made it, she had done
what to her was a far more serious thing, wronged Winterborne's memory.

Without consulting her father, or any one in the house or out of it, Grace replied to the letter.
She agreed to meet Fitzpiers on two conditions, of which the first was that the place of meeting
should be the top of Rubdown Hill, the second that he would not object to Marty South accompanying
her.

Whatever part, much or little, there may have been in Fitzpiers's so-called valentine to his
wife, he felt a delight as of the bursting of spring when her brief reply came.  It was one
of the few pleasures that he had experienced of late years at all resembling those of his early
youth.  He promptly replied that he accepted the conditions, and named the day and hour at
which he would be on the spot she mentioned.

A few minutes before three on the appointed day found him climbing the well-known hill, which
had been the axis of so many critical movements in their lives during his residence at Hintock.

The sight of each homely and well-remembered object swelled the regret that seldom left him
now.  Whatever paths might lie open to his future, the soothing shades of Hintock were forbidden
him forever as a permanent dwelling-place.

He longed for the society of Grace.  But to lay offerings on her slighted altar was his first
aim, and until her propitiation was complete he would constrain her in no way to return to
him.  The least reparation that he could make, in a case where he would gladly have made much,
would be to let her feel herself absolutely free to choose between living with him and without him.

Moreover, a subtlist in emotions, he cultivated as under glasses strange and mournful pleasures
that he would not willingly let die just at present.  To show any forwardness in suggesting
a modus vivendi to Grace would be to put an end to these exotics.  To be the vassal of her
sweet will for a time, he demanded no more, and found solace in the contemplation of the soft
miseries she caused him.

Approaching the hill-top with a mind strung to these notions, Fitzpiers discerned a gay procession
of people coming over the crest, and was not long in perceiving it to be a wedding-party.

Though the wind was keen the women were in light attire, and the flowered waistcoats of the
men had a pleasing vividness of pattern. Each of the gentler ones clung to the arm of her partner
so tightly as to have with him one step, rise, swing, gait, almost one centre of gravity. 
In the buxom bride Fitzpiers recognized no other than Suke Damson, who in her light gown looked
a giantess; the small husband beside her he saw to be Tim Tangs.

Fitzpiers could not escape, for they had seen him; though of all the beauties of the world
whom he did not wish to meet Suke was the chief. But he put the best face on the matter that
he could and came on, the approaching company evidently discussing him and his separation from
Mrs. Fitzpiers.  As the couples closed upon him he expressed his congratulations.

"We be just walking round the parishes to show ourselves a bit," said Tim.  "First we het across
to Delborough, then athwart to here, and from here we go to Rubdown and Millshot, and then
round by the cross-roads home.  Home says I, but it won't be that long! We be off next month."

"Indeed.  Where to?"

Tim informed him that they were going to New Zealand.  Not but that he would have been contented
with Hintock, but his wife was ambitious and wanted to leave, so he had given way.

"Then good-by," said Fitzpiers; "I may not see you again." He shook hands with Tim and turned
to the bride.  "Good-by, Suke," he said, taking her hand also.  "I wish you and your husband
prosperity in the country you have chosen."  With this he left them, and hastened on to his
appointment.

The wedding-party re-formed and resumed march likewise.  But in restoring his arm to Suke,
Tim noticed that her full and blooming countenance had undergone a change.  "Holloa! me dear--what's
the matter?" said Tim.

"Nothing to speak o'," said she.  But to give the lie to her assertion she was seized with
lachrymose twitches, that soon produced a dribbling face.

"How--what the devil's this about!" exclaimed the bridegroom.

"She's a little wee bit overcome, poor dear!" said the first bridesmaid, unfolding her handkerchief
and wiping Suke's eyes. What value does the gentleman!

- Is anything of value to beg to call your dear friend?

- For what it takes courage, great courage, is to ask the person Celia
who knows where she is.

- And I know better than you?

Come and Dona Josefa Nemesia, I do not do that. You teasing you.

- Who has the blood like water for chocolate not tease.

- Well, Celia is not here, where is? Leonardo asked truly alarmed.

- I tell the gentleman, said Nemesia angry that I was not born yesterday, and I suck the finger.

-
For God's sake, baby, I swear I do not know Celia four days ago.

Do you have fought Vds.? Does your brother have mortified? Ah! Tell me, tell me, what you love
most in this world What happened between Vds.?

What do you know?

Nemesia then began to believe in the sincerity of the anguished words
of the young, and said crying

- I was present, and I'm happy now
because I do not know what I have done to prevent to be carried Celia.

-
What a ride!

Leonardo repeated terrified and angry.

Who could be brought against His will?

- I was given the fright
she lost strength.

- Scary!

Why? Who?

- Commissary.

- What the Commissioner had to do with Celia?

- Came to light it.

- A pledge without having committed any crime? No way ... Ah! There's been a sham, a intrigue, a nefarious
plot to snatch my Celia. Tell me what happened, everything.

- I was present, repeated, but a woman of the house, he saw how the
thing happened, I told yesterday afternoon suddenly came Cantalapiedra,
Celia asked, and as she left, said he was imprisoned, he took her
by the arm, and with no one took it to no know where.

- The strange
thing is that Celia turn left without defense, without investigating
the reason for the prison.

Not that it had been agreed and warned! Which I refuse to believe. Oh the miserable henchman
that he put his hand over!

Do not know where she was taken?

- Nothing I've been out and Jose Dolores. Commissioner Celia was in a wheel.

- What a plot! As infamous as bold. But find out the truth, whatever it may be the author outrage,
I will pay to sevenfold.

Without more, Leonardo left the race for the Cantalapiedra commissioner, who, as we said, lived
in the lean of the hill of the Angel, on the side facing the wall. No was at home, and beloved
young man who was reported to be was in the Government Palace taking
orders.

Thus setting out, Leonardo in that direction, It occurred that if Cecilia had been seized under
a warrant the judge could not having led to another place in prison
(located then in the southwest corner of the palace of the Captaincy
General) and stopped in front of the gate.

Behind her, the better in the cage formed by two iron gates, a man was standing badly dressed
and the worst aspect.

In order to obtain a categorical answer, faced him Leonardo and said
air and tone of authority:

- Do you know if they brought yesterday
to the Royal Prison prey to a white girl, beautiful, dressed mourn
...?

- I do not know, "replied the man.

I am the second keyring and yesterday was not on duty.

See M. Warden in the book.

- The warden is closed.

- That is that
the warden has gone to chow.

Will the gentleman to wait until tomorrow.

Because I only await the bell of the Force to deliver the jail official
seal and yaw.

- Who is that black holding a lively conversation with
other prisoners in the yard?

- What says the Lord?

Does the white sucks?

- Yes, the same.

- A Jaruco call it that.

- Name of course, right?

- Well, his real name is not Jaruco is stuck, but asina was put in
the book and asina be called while in the Royal Prison.

Dende gayola entered before yesterday.

Do you know the Lord?

- I think so. You call him at the gate, if there is no objection.

- No pregnancy, because while being held incommunicado, we have no Bartolinas for many prisoners.
Jaruco Eh! cried the keychain from his position.

And word is repeated by other prisoners in the same tone of voice,
came Jaruco, recognizing easily the master and slave.

Entrol to it so strong convulsive shudder, which was to grab with both hands at the gate.

- Sumerced I take the blessing, bathed in tears faltered.

- Why are you crying?, Leonardo asked angrily.

- Wow, Leonardite child, remembering the hard time that I have given the family in my absence.

-
With your absence, dog? With your flight.

- Boy, I'm not fled. I left home Christmas Eve was designed to assist a dance for people of color
out there. Around the city had a tragedy a mulatto. I was wounded in the chest, I picked up an
acquaintance in the street and took me to the room in which he lived. As I spent the time healing.
After this misfortune befell me.

- What misfortune?

- The of the
unjust imprisonment.

All men are exposed to a stroke of bad luck.

- From bad luck, not
bad head.

Is seen, Dionisio, you do not want blacks for good but for evil.

If Mom had dispatched to you when you did that wit dog of yore, there
now you'd be in jail.

What crime you are accused?

- Still do not know the cause of my imprisonment, child leonardite.

-
Do not know, eh?

Is not the death of Tonda?

- Maybe I raise this false testimony, child who is bad because it falls his feet and killed.
Get office, child, I was very calm, sewing shoes a shoe shop in the Rue de Manrique, when she
appeared at the door the captain Tonda.

From I saw them I knew it was coming for me, and tried to slip away. Dismounted and went to
him as if to surrender.

At the door of the shop had a wheel stop and I slipped out between
her and the wall of the house.

Tonda I fell back shouting: - Date, date! Shortcut! He tripped over a rock, fell on the sword
that had naked and injured in the stomach. Did I have to blame for his death?

- Who caught you?

- Captain headman of Health.

I took when I left for my job.

- I guess he told you why you lit.

- No word.

He just told me he had orders to take me dead or alive.

- In good you've got, Dionisio.

It will be much and give thanks to God if she escaped with the skin.

- Whatever you want God and the Virgin.

I trust in my innocence. But do not think the kid that I love and Miss will do something for me?

- Do? Nothing. Do not wait.

By the way you have behaved decently with your masters!

For them, the whole family, for yourself, Dionisio, you'd better bend the neck in Point field.
With that you'll never insulting white girls.

- Me, Boy I've insulted a white girl or color? No, Leonardite child, I have consciousness of
having insulted any.

- And one that was the cause of your quarrel with the mulatto to the
output of the dance?

- I did not insult the child.

For the bones of my mother that I did not say a bad word. Le asked a minuet, I said she was
tired and then went to dance with José Dolores Pimienta.

I complained to her the snub, he took his defense, we lock our words and we beat a the street.

-
If you do not let you talk hanged. A otherwise.

Do you know if they have brought here the same prey young man of
your tragedy with Pepper?

- I'm sure is not here.

Just put one foot in the prison courtyard, is published and circulated shouted his name.

- God protects you, Denis.

- Child charity, another word. I remember that I delivered at his mercy a garment belongs.

-
What piece of clothing?

End soon, prontito.

- Had me in his pocket, hoping to give it one day, the watch Miss gave his market last year, but
they took it away to enter the prison. Must be in the hands of the Warden.

Dionisio told in as few words, how and when it came to power the clock and moved said to withdraw
his young master:

- Could you tell the child how is Mary Rule?

- Mom brought her wit. Is now in the city earning wages.

Have not you seen?

- No, sir. This is the first news I have of his coming. Why God did not want trip over it? I see
today in this prison.

I have served as godmother to Miss and would cook at home.

Leonardo night and returned home from the Commissioner and was surprised
in the act of sitting at the dinner table with his mistress.

- Hello!

Both good over here! Cantalapiedra said very cheerful, going to meet Leonardo, with an open hand
outstretched.

- Good to find, he said serious and cold, pretending that he had not noticed Commissioner friendly
demonstration.

- I waited, hiding Cantalapiedra said the snub the
bad impression made.

Fermina just tell me that you had honored with his presence this humble shelter.

- I can speak a word with you?

- And two hundred also, Don Leonardite. You know that I am your most obedient servant. Felt
not be in the station when you were at dusk. He had to go racing the Policy Secretariat. So
that I do not know as we are not in the way, if you come there. Bonora! screamed, a chair for
this gentleman.

- Excuse the compliments, Leonardo said haughtily. It is not for sitting.

Let's talk provided it is standing alone.

- Why not here in front of Fermina? I have no secrets from her. We are inseparable.

- How you caught authority to Cecilia Valdés? asked the young man desperately.

- Not with me has invested HM King Fernando VII, QDG, but with Mr.
Mayor to sign the warrant, a complaint from a parent.

- What Mayor
and which parent will tell you serve?

- That's too much bread in
between, Mr. Gamboa, the Commissioner said, laughing.

It seems like you something that is obscured ... Sit down and cool off.

- The girl has not committed any crime, so it is improper and illegal
to prison if is that everything has been nothing but a farce, or something
worse, God knows what purpose.

- None of this goes against me, I
have been a mere instrument in this case.

- Tell you if the name
of the complainant.

- Vd. knows better than me, and if you do not
know will know soon.

- Will you allowed to say the Mayor?

- No inconvenience:
the O'Reilly Don Fernando, Spain's largest first class Mayor of the
District of San Francisco ...

- Where did you a girl?

She is not in the public jail.

- Shall I not reveal it now.

I drove to where I was ordered.

- After you hide it dishonest purposes.

- In my refusal to satisfy
the curiosity of you does not show such outrageous deduction.

Logic, logic, philosophy student sir.

- It matters little whether
you want to throw the secretive and mysterious to me.

I must see the truth, and they may still, despite the author and instrument of this rude and
intrigue indecent.

That said, he went on his way home in high dudgeon. The family had a visitor in the room. No I
decided to enter it ready the carriage, moved in a suit, and when asked by signs her mother to
the porch railing of the reason for this precipitation:

- I go to the opera, he replied briefly.

Sang Rossini opera maestro Ricardo and Zoraida, to benefit the Santa Marta, the beautiful Teatro
Principal. [59] It was then the company entrepreneur Eugenio Arriaza, and director of the
orchestra Don Manuel Cocco, brother of Jose, which we saw in the mill La Tinaja. The patio
or yard and the boxes were occupied by a public medium then nothing
functions fan lyrics.

Leonardo came some time after the standard curtain. Of course, he heard the overture to Tancredo,
who preceded the opera that night.

Looking for a man whose place in the theater knew in advance was because, as Mayor preside over
the function from the central box on the second floor.

Sitting was the pair of Madrid wife, embedded in music and song,
as he kept the back, standing by the door, the page mulatto, livery
rigorous cover castles and lions embroidered gold.

All this I watched through the porthole in the door of the box, closed against the corridor.
Could have called, assured of a friendly welcome input, but preferred wait on the balcony of the
refreshment room which overlooked the mall Paula.

Calculated according to Leonardo, shortly after completion of the
first act, he felt measured steps through the room, then a hand rested
on his shoulders and followed a voice in a dramatic tone declaimed:
- What does the friend of the brave Othello?

- Ah!

Is that you, Fernando? The farthest I had from my mind.

- What are you doing here so lonely and pensieroso?

- I just got.

- No saw you in the lunettes.

Why do not you come at once to my box?

- I figured there was no place for me.

- For you are always by my
side.

- Thanks.

- Are you in moments of inspiration?

Is the witch on the tripod? I welcome that. Feel interrupt.

- I inspired! It can be: the devil.

- There would be nothing strange that you inspire the urban scene
that unfolds at sea the balcony.

Will you composed there in the mind an article descriptive? Insurance.

In fact, Who that houses the soul of a poet is not inspired by the
sight of row houses that unequal our right, protruding balconies high
Conde de Peñalver manor?

Or the trees in this mall without ending coffee Paula, now dark and
deserted?

Or the hospital of the same name at the bottom, which seems an Egyptian pyramid, from which
blackened top, Bonaparte said, are watching the centuries?

Or the opposite side, very dark mass of the ship Sovereign, nailed,
so to speak, in the still waters Bay?

Can not you see how it stands out from the sky where the stars sparkle? Who would not say they,
rather than light shed tears over the impending disappearance of
the last remaining our naval glories?

- Fernando, so poetic that
scene for you, it has no meaning for me.

Perhaps because I know it by heart, or because I'm black humor.

- For me, kid, always has charms of nature. In her presence forget
all my penalties.

And by the way have you read in The Journal "A trait of my visit
to Mount Etna?"

Arazoza was the other day at home in order for something original
... He insisted and gave these blots.

- Almost never see El Diario.

-
Then look for it and read it. The article is short. It was published
three or four days. I wrote in Palermo. I did not put my name, because
he says ill of a mayor ... You understand me. He went out with my
initials only and have you to believe that we have come to congratulate
me more than twenty friends? Yes Pedro José Morillas hugged me and
gave me the article with the clouds. I want to hear your opinion.

-
Afternoon is that you can give it to you, Fernando. My head burns,
I get to shoot myself, or spreading it to someone, that readings.

-
Man! I'm surprised. I know. Are you the same student in the class
of Philosophy at the College of San Carlos, or another in your figure?
What has become of that good humor and that catchy joy that you were
earning the affection of all your classmates? Stop your nonsense and
childhoods. Are you in love? You could give in such a stupid thing
after your twenties and most Aprils and your experience ...

- It
is the passion of love which consumes me with this chest. It is the
anger, the pain, is the despair that produces the first disappointment
of what are the world, men and friendship.

- Come on. Why deny it?
You're in love and unrequited. Sludge symptoms are love. What is the
real source of your troubles? Confíamelas. You know I'm your friend.

-
My friend! cried the young man with an ironic smile. I thought you
were, but I am disappointed you're my worst enemy.

- What date is
your disappointment?

- It's disservice you did to me. I do not know
how his memory will not gnaw the bowels.

- Will you have lost your
mind? Come on, man! And fall. All your anger is born ... Ja, ja!

-
Do not laugh, seriously said Leonardo. This step is not laughing.

-
Why, what is? Mayor stressed. Here is the first time, since we know
that I see serious y. .. bobo.

- Do not call to seriousness and silliness
it touches into fury.

- Stop your childish nonsense at this time.
Your anger seems to be leading me, and if you were not encalabrinar,
you would see that, far from hatred, you owe me gratitude.

- Not
missing anything, but after wounding me where it hurts most, I expect
thanks. What freshness of yours! Did you know that was my girl Cecilia
Valdés?

- I learned it the same day, as you say, I did the disservice
...

- But before that, what were you news of its existence? Did you
know his character and background?

- What had to know!
"It has been there a long time."

She faintly shook her head, but said, "I'll try to think of you more--if I can."

With this Fitzpiers was compelled to be satisfied, and he asked her when she would meet him again.

"As we arranged--in a fortnight."

"If it must be a fortnight it must!"

"This time at least.  I'll consider by the day I see you again if I can shorten the interval."

"Well, be that as it may, I shall come at least twice a week to look at your window."

"You must do as you like about that.  Good-night."

"Say 'husband.'"

She seemed almost inclined to give him the word; but exclaiming, "No, no; I cannot," slipped
through the garden-hedge and disappeared.

Fitzpiers did not exaggerate when he told her that he should haunt the precincts of the dwelling.
But his persistence in this course did not result in his seeing her much oftener than at the
fortnightly interval which she had herself marked out as proper. At these times, however, she
punctually appeared, and as the spring wore on the meetings were kept up, though their character
changed but little with the increase in their number.

The small garden of the cottage occupied by the Tangs family--father, son, and now son's wife--aligned
with the larger one of the timber-dealer at its upper end; and when young Tim, after leaving
work at Melbury's, stood at dusk in the little bower at the corner of his enclosure to smoke
a pipe, he frequently observed the surgeon pass along the outside track before-mentioned. 
Fitzpiers always walked loiteringly, pensively, looking with a sharp eye into the gardens one
after another as he proceeded; for Fitzpiers did not wish to leave the now absorbing spot too
quickly, after travelling so far to reach it; hoping always for a glimpse of her whom he passionately
desired to take to his arms anew.

Now Tim began to be struck with these loitering progresses along the garden boundaries in the
gloaming, and wondered what they boded.  It was, naturally, quite out of his power to divine
the singular, sentimental revival in Fitzpiers's heart; the fineness of tissue which could
take a deep, emotional--almost also an artistic--pleasure in being the yearning inamorato of
a woman he once had deserted, would have seemed an absurdity to the young sawyer.  Mr. and
Mrs. Fitzpiers were separated; therefore the question of affection as between them was settled.
But his Suke had, since that meeting on their marriage-day, repentantly admitted, to the urgency
of his questioning, a good deal concerning her past levities.  Putting all things together,
he could hardly avoid connecting Fitzpiers's mysterious visits to this spot with Suke's residence
under his roof.  But he made himself fairly easy: the vessel in which they were about to emigrate
sailed that month; and then Suke would be out of Fitzpiers's way forever.

The interval at last expired, and the eve of their departure arrived. They were pausing in
the room of the cottage allotted to them by Tim's father, after a busy day of preparation,
which left them weary.  In a corner stood their boxes, crammed and corded, their large case
for the hold having already been sent away.  The firelight shone upon Suke's fine face and
form as she stood looking into it, and upon the face of Tim seated in a corner, and upon the
walls of his father's house, which he was beholding that night almost for the last time.

Tim Tangs was not happy.  This scheme of emigration was dividing him from his father--for old
Tangs would on no account leave Hintock--and had it not been for Suke's reputation and his
own dignity, Tim would at the last moment have abandoned the project. As he sat in the back
part of the room he regarded her moodily, and the fire and the boxes.  One thing he had particularly
noticed this evening--she was very restless; fitful in her actions, unable to remain seated,
and in a marked degree depressed.

"Sorry that you be going, after all, Suke?" he said.

She sighed involuntarily.  "I don't know but that I be," she answered. "'Tis natural, isn't
it, when one is going away?"

"But you wasn't born here as I was."

"No."

"There's folk left behind that you'd fain have with 'ee, I reckon?"

"Why do you think that?"

"I've seen things and I've heard things; and, Suke, I say 'twill be a good move for me to get
'ee away.  I don't mind his leavings abroad, but I do mind 'em at home."

Suke's face was not changed from its aspect of listless indifference by the words.  She answered
nothing; and shortly after he went out for his customary pipe of tobacco at the top of the garden.

The restlessness of Suke had indeed owed its presence to the gentleman of Tim's suspicions,
but in a different--and it must be added in justice to her--more innocent sense than he supposed,
judging from former doings.  She had accidentally discovered that Fitzpiers was in the habit
of coming secretly once or twice a week to Hintock, and knew that this evening was a favorite
one of the seven for his journey.  As she was going next day to leave the country, Suke thought
there could be no great harm in giving way to a little sentimentality by obtaining a glimpse
of him quite unknown to himself or to anybody, and thus taking a silent last farewell.  Aware
that Fitzpiers's time for passing was at hand she thus betrayed her feeling.  No sooner, therefore,
had Tim left the room than she let herself noiselessly out of the house, and hastened to the
corner of the garden, whence she could witness the surgeon's transit across the scene--if he
had not already gone by.

Her light cotton dress was visible to Tim lounging in the arbor of the opposite corner, though
he was hidden from her.  He saw her stealthily climb into the hedge, and so ensconce herself
there that nobody could have the least doubt her purpose was to watch unseen for a passer-by.

He went across to the spot and stood behind her.  Suke started, having in her blundering way
forgotten that he might be near.  She at once descended from the hedge.

"So he's coming to-night," said Tim, laconically.  "And we be always anxious to see our dears."

"He IS coming to-night," she replied, with defiance.  "And we BE anxious for our dears."

"Then will you step in-doors, where your dear will soon jine 'ee? We've to mouster by half-past
three to-morrow, and if we don't get to bed by eight at latest our faces will be as long as
clock-cases all day."

She hesitated for a minute, but ultimately obeyed, going slowly down the garden to the house,
where he heard the door-latch click behind her.

Tim was incensed beyond measure.  His marriage had so far been a total failure, a source of
bitter regret; and the only course for improving his case, that of leaving the country, was
a sorry, and possibly might not be a very effectual one.  Do what he would, his domestic sky
was likely to be overcast to the end of the day. Thus he brooded, and his resentment gathered
force.  He craved a means of striking one blow back at the cause of his cheerless plight, while
he was still on the scene of his discomfiture.  For some minutes no method suggested itself,
and then he had an idea.

Coming to a sudden resolution, he hastened along the garden, and entered the one attached to
the next cottage, which had formerly been the dwelling of a game-keeper.  Tim descended the
path to the back of the house, where only an old woman lived at present, and reaching the wall
he stopped.  Owing to the slope of the ground the roof-eaves of the linhay were here within
touch, and he thrust his arm up under them, feeling about in the space on the top of the wall-plate.

"Ah, I thought my memory didn't deceive me!" he lipped silently.

With some exertion he drew down a cobwebbed object curiously framed in iron, which clanked
as he moved it.  It was about three feet in length and half as wide.  Tim contemplated it as
well as he could in the dying light of day, and raked off the cobwebs with his hand.

"That will spoil his pretty shins for'n, I reckon!" he said.

It was a man-trap.

CHAPTER XLVII.

Were the inventors of automatic machines to be ranged according to the excellence of their
devices for producing sound artistic torture, the creator of the man-trap would occupy a very
respectable if not a very high place.

It should rather, however, be said, the inventor of the particular form of man-trap of which
this found in the keeper's out-house was a specimen.  For there were other shapes and other
sizes, instruments which, if placed in a row beside one of the type disinterred by Tim, would
have worn the subordinate aspect of the bears, wild boars, or wolves in a travelling menagerie,
as compared with the leading lion or tiger.  In short, though many varieties had been in use
during those centuries which we are accustomed to look back upon as the true and only period
of merry England--in the rural districts more especially--and onward down to the third decade
of the nineteenth century, this model had borne the palm, and had been most usually followed
when the orchards and estates required new ones.

There had been the toothless variety used by the softer-hearted landlords--quite contemptible
in their clemency.  The jaws of these resembled the jaws of an old woman to whom time has left
nothing but gums.  There were also the intermediate or half-toothed sorts, probably devised
by the middle-natured squires, or those under the influence of their wives: two inches of mercy,
two inches of cruelty, two inches of mere nip, two inches of probe, and so on, through the
whole extent of the jaws.  There were also, as a class apart, the bruisers, which did not lacerate
the flesh, but only crushed the bone.

The sight of one of these gins when set produced a vivid impression that it was endowed with
life.  It exhibited the combined aspects of a shark, a crocodile, and a scorpion.  Each tooth
was in the form of a tapering spine, two and a quarter inches long, which, when the jaws were
closed, stood in alternation from this side and from that.  When they were open, the two halves
formed a complete circle between two and three feet in diameter, the plate or treading-place
in the midst being about a foot square, while from beneath extended in opposite directions
the soul of the apparatus, the pair of springs, each one being of a stiffness to render necessary
a lever or the whole weight of the body when forcing it down.

There were men at this time still living at Hintock who remembered when the gin and others
like it were in use.  Tim Tangs's great-uncle had endured a night of six hours in this very
trap, which lamed him for life.  Once a keeper of Hintock woods set it on the track of a poacher,
and afterwards, coming back that way, forgetful of what he had done, walked into it himself.
The wound brought on lockjaw, of which he died.  This event occurred during the thirties, and
by the year 1840 the use of such implements was well-nigh discontinued in the neighborhood.
But being made entirely of iron, they by no means disappeared, and in almost every village
one could be found in some nook or corner as readily as this was found by Tim.  It had, indeed,
been a fearful amusement of Tim and other Hintock lads--especially those who had a dim sense
of becoming renowned poachers when they reached their prime--to drag out this trap from its
hiding, set it, and throw it with billets of wood, which were penetrated by the teeth to the
depth of near an inch.

As soon as he had examined the trap, and found that the hinges and springs were still perfect,
he shouldered it without more ado, and returned with his burden to his own garden, passing
on through the hedge to the path immediately outside the boundary.  Here, by the help of a
stout stake, he set the trap, and laid it carefully behind a bush while he went forward to
reconnoitre.  As has been stated, nobody passed this way for days together sometimes; but there
was just a possibility that some other pedestrian than the one in request might arrive, and
it behooved Tim to be careful as to the identity of his victim.

Going about a hundred yards along the rising ground to the right, he reached a ridge whereon
a large and thick holly grew.  Beyond this for some distance the wood was more open, and the
course which Fitzpiers must pursue to reach the point, if he came to-night, was visible a long
way forward.

For some time there was no sign of him or of anybody.  Then there shaped itself a spot out
of the dim mid-distance, between the masses of brushwood on either hand.  And it enlarged,
and Tim could hear the brushing of feet over the tufts of sour-grass.  The airy gait revealed
Fitzpiers even before his exact outline could be seen.

Tim Tangs turned about, and ran down the opposite side of the hill, till he was again at the
head of his own garden.  It was the work of a few moments to drag out the man-trap, very gently--that
the plate might not be disturbed sufficiently to throw it--to a space between a pair of young
oaks which, rooted in contiguity, grew apart upward, forming a V-shaped opening between; and,
being backed up by bushes, left this as the only course for a foot-passenger.  In it he laid
the trap with the same gentleness of handling, locked the chain round one of the trees, and
finally slid back the guard which was placed to keep the gin from accidentally catching the
arms of him who set it, or, to use the local and better word, "toiled" it.

Having completed these arrangements, Tim sprang through the adjoining hedge of his father's
garden, ran down the path, and softly entered the house.

Obedient to his order, Suke had gone to bed; and as soon as he had bolted the door, Tim unlaced
and kicked off his boots at the foot of the stairs, and retired likewise, without lighting
a candle. His object seemed to be to undress as soon as possible.  Before, however, he had
completed the operation, a long cry resounded without--penetrating, but indescribable.

"What's that?" said Suke, starting up in bed.

"Sounds as if somebody had caught a hare in his gin."

"Oh no," said she.  "It was not a hare, 'twas louder.  Hark!"

"Do 'ee get to sleep," said Tim.  "How be you going to wake at half-past three else?"

She lay down and was silent.  Tim stealthily opened the window and listened.  Above the low
harmonies produced by the instrumentation of the various species of trees around the premises
he could hear the twitching of a chain from the spot whereon he had set the man-trap. But further
human sound there was none.

Tim was puzzled.  In the haste of his project he had not calculated upon a cry; but if one,
why not more? He soon ceased to essay an answer, for Hintock was dead to him already.  In half
a dozen hours he would be out of its precincts for life, on his way to the antipodes. He closed
the window and lay down.

The hour which had brought these movements of Tim to birth had been operating actively elsewhere.
Awaiting in her father's house the minute of her appointment with her husband, Grace Fitzpiers
deliberated on many things.  Should she inform her father before going out that the estrangement
of herself and Edgar was not so complete as he had imagined, and deemed desirable for her happiness?
If she did so she must in some measure become the apologist of her husband, and she was not
prepared to go so far. But in making the appraisal, merely to determine the exact value he has, by adopting
a common measure, which is money. If instead of the real, the shields or ESP, as the oxen were,
we would say that this owner had a land worth five hundred oxen, and such employee a salary of
twenty oxen a year. The advantage gold or silver coin minted for the foregoing clearly apparent.
Blessed and praise be to God who has given birth at a time when everything is ascertained and
explained so cute! An ox is not very portable, it fits in your pocket, does not happen in all
markets spent on food and can die, and the money or eat or die. In addition an ox may be fatter
or skinnier, smaller or larger, older or younger, while a shield is always a shield, enjoys
eternal youth, and has or should have the same weight and the same law.

This is the great advantage enjoyed by this science. It is so clear, so pedestrian and so simple,
children of the doctrine could understand if they wanted. And yet (something, incidentally admirable!),
just take a step from ground so firm and sure, and from place usually so clear economists fall into
a bottomless sea or within cimeriana dark night. Economy Politics goes to escape, jumping from
the truism to the sophistry with prodigious agility.

In the same issue of whether the precious metals, gold and silver are better than oxen for
currency, unforeseen difficulties and contradictions occur. Sample serves as : If the debt that
the Spanish government has made and continues to contract is estimated at oxen could not be
lower by 5 100 in one-twentieth, except that the seven lean breed of Pharaoh's dream and fill
the world infinitely all of oxen cacoquimios and emaciated, but debt estimated PTA has made
the cut with softness of a feather, and almost without anyone realizing it. Oxen, man with large,
unless the lean children, would always be oxen, but the new ESP not like the old, and the day
that the minting of new currency is completed, we ensure that instead of duty, for example, 20,000
million reais, we 19,000, not be that alteration of the currency does not pray with the creditors
of the State, and they continue to pay interests under the old law.

But leaving aside this issue, stating that while here we use the word money within the meaning
of capital or wealth, we perfectly the distinction of these things, and have made all men of
all ages, no need for economists indoctrinate. The reason we call money at all wealth is that
money is wealth without which you can not pass. Money is also a value that flows more easily
all other values, and represents and measured. Money is not all wealth, but the moving, and more
circulating liquid wealth. Blood is not all life on the body, and yet not live if the blood does
not circulate throughout the blood or if we escape, although not completely accurate comparison,
because there is no comparison completely accurate. There is nothing in the body that can replace
the blood, but there is something in society that can replace money, and this something is credit,
which does not create an atom over wealth, but put into circulation and provides mobility and
near ubiquity and much of the wealth that stands and inert. In short, the money, but replaceable
credit is part of wealth, and so this as being the most lively, more energetic and more circulating
is a pain to lose. The company has no money, or the guy who has no money, already Aviados. After
many studies have inferred therefore that the money economists is indispensable to man from
the moment that man lives in society, acute above, whose truth shines brighter than the midday
light.

II.

Sitting and these bases, I philosophize and a little discourse on the relationship of money (And
generally of all wealth) with the customs and the highest powers of mind human. Begin to combat
some errors.

The first and most capital is to believe that in our days, is money dearer at other times. Nothing
more false. On this day, men are as always, but if some alteration has occurred, has been favorable.
Can almost say that men have more generous.

Easy I would build here a multitude of historical examples, from the remotest ages so far, to prove
that the interest has dominated the world since then, and his empire
far from increasing, fell. I would not, however, make a scholarly
work but a meditation philosophical.

"Oh, my own--my darling! Oh, cruel Heaven--it is too much, this!" he cried, writhing and rocking
himself over the sorry accessaries of her he deplored.

The voice of his distress was sufficiently loud to be audible to any one who might have been
there to hear it; and one there was. Right and left of the narrow pass between the oaks were
dense bushes; and now from behind these a female figure glided, whose appearance even in the
gloom was, though graceful in outline, noticeably strange.

She was in white up to the waist, and figured above.  She was, in short, Grace, his wife, lacking
the portion of her dress which the gin retained. A few little lessons and nothing else!

- Don Roman, - I answered
- no folded.

Nothing is eternal times vary ... the best day ....

- Yes, my son, vary the times, who can doubt it, but not for me! I have no more than prepare to
die a Christian. Poverty, misery, hunger, contumelies, all suffer
with patience.

What saddens me and me bitter, it saddens and disturbs me is ingratitude.

- Do not folded, teacher. Instead you have the gratitude and love of many.
- Down? That no! - Said in a burst of energy .-- That no! Nobody
will be surrendered. On the contrary: arrogant, with pride dignity.
So I do not want. Whenever solicitor settle accounts with those ungrateful
to these charlatans.  "Grace, my wife, my love, how is this--what
has happened?"

"I was coming on to you," she said as distinctly as she could in the half-smothered state of
her face against his.  "I was trying to be as punctual as possible, and as I had started a
minute late I ran along the path very swiftly--fortunately for myself.  Just when I had passed
between these trees I felt something clutch at my dress from behind with a noise, and the next
moment I was pulled backward by it, and fell to the ground.  I screamed with terror, thinking
it was a man lying down there to murder me, but the next moment I discovered it was iron, and
that my clothes were caught in a trap.  I pulled this way and that, but the thing would not
let go, drag it as I would, and I did not know what to do.  I did not want to alarm my father
or anybody, as I wished nobody to know of these meetings with you; so I could think of no other
plan than slipping off my skirt, meaning to run on and tell you what a strange accident had
happened to me.  But when I had just freed myself by leaving the dress behind, I heard steps,
and not being sure it was you, I did not like to be seen in such a pickle, so I hid away."

"It was only your speed that saved you! One or both of your legs would have been broken if
you had come at ordinary walking pace."

"Or yours, if you had got here first," said she, beginning to realize the whole ghastliness
of the possibility.  "Oh, Edgar, there has been an Eye watching over us to-night, and we should
be thankful indeed!"

He continued to press his face to hers.  "You are mine--mine again now."

She gently owned that she supposed she was.  "I heard what you said when you thought I was
injured," she went on, shyly, "and I know that a man who could suffer as you were suffering
must have a tender regard for me. It is not easy to explain. The same if you had asked, could not
account for their feelings.

As Mayor noticing his perplexity, he repeated the same question, with more emphasis.

- I do not know, "said Don Candido to space, not really know. What's in jail ... what think a lot.
It would be too much for the poor girl. I was thinking in my pasture Hoyo Colorado ... The Mayoral
is married with young children, and that point is far from good distance, but offered a number of difficulties,
large, insurmountable.

No, no, maybe it would be better put on the ingenuity of a friend who already knows the girl
and is aware ... Near here: in Jaimanitas. He is also married ...
in years.

Unable ... VS What do you think?

- I do not believe anything, Don Candido; you is to think and solve.

It's my job to the warrant as soon as I ask in every way.

- What
does VS 'in any form'?

- I mean, I hope that the party I filed the
complaint in writing.

- Why, VS has not heard my complaint in every
way?

- It is not enough, we must reduce it to writing.

- What would
be signed?

- Of course.

- That fledge me if I had gone through the
mind that so many requirements demanded ... Could not the thing done
differently, out of court?

I have a fear of legal formalities.

- In this kind of crime can
not proceed automatically.

For you see I want to serve, I'll tell you half.

- Here.

VS knows these things better than me.

- In what lies the Valdés area?

- The Angel.

- Do you know you Commissioner?

- Yes, sir.

I understand that Cantalapiedra.

- Same.

Now.

You see you, introduce the complaint and tell me to spend a comprehensive trade the case. He knows
how to write these documents.

- Well, I'll see him today, "but would not appear so to prevent my name?

- Never mind, man, O'Reilly said almost angrily. The thing we will not exceed three. Al office
will give me just read it shelved, the Commissioner will cover the
mouth and encourages you to act with discretion and zeal by putting
a few yellow hand, and you, are known is that a good silence called
Sancho.

- I understand.

Where do we draw the girl?

- It runs in my account.

Be in a place where honesty is not jeopardized or her person, while
no one is safe and can pull it without my permission or that of you

-
It will not be in jail.

- No, certainly not there.

- Except in Paula.

-
Again, Paula, and for obvious reasons.

Finally, put it in the collection, in the neighborhood San Isidro,
well recommended to the mother.

- Okay.

That does not come lads, I guess.

- Not that I know.

Maybe one other employee. But how long it holds?

- For six months.

- Current: six months.

- Let's see.

I think it will be better a year.

Is long, but my son did not receive a Bachelor until April and will not marry until November. Yes,
for a year ...

- Done.

"I must go back," she said; and without further delay they set their faces towards Hintock.
As they walked he examined his watch by the aid of the now strong moonlight.

"By the gods, I think I have lost my train!" said Fitzpiers.

"Dear me--whereabouts are we?" said she.

"Two miles in the direction of Sherton."

"Then do you hasten on, Edgar.  I am not in the least afraid.  I recognize now the part of
the wood we are in and I can find my way back quite easily.  I'll tell my father that we have
made it up. I wish I had not kept our meetings so private, for it may vex him a little to know
I have been seeing you.  He is getting old and irritable, that was why I did not.  Good-by."

"But, as I must stay at the Earl of Wessex to-night, for I cannot possibly catch the train,
I think it would be safer for you to let me take care of you."

"But what will my father think has become of me? He does not know in the least where I am--he
thinks I only went into the garden for a few minutes."

"He will surely guess--somebody has seen me for certain.  I'll go all the way back with you
to-morrow."

"But that newly done-up place--the Earl of Wessex!"

"If you are so very particular about the publicity I will stay at the Three Tuns."

"Oh no--it is not that I am particular--but I haven't a brush or comb or anything!"

CHAPTER XLVIII

All the evening Melbury had been coming to his door, saying, "I wonder where in the world that
girl is! Never in all my born days did I know her bide out like this!  She surely said she
was going into the garden to get some parsley."

Melbury searched the garden, the parsley-bed, and the orchard, but could find no trace of her,
and then he made inquiries at the cottages of such of his workmen as had not gone to bed, avoiding
Tangs's because he knew the young people were to rise early to leave.  In these inquiries one
of the men's wives somewhat incautiously let out the fact that she had heard a scream in the
wood, though from which direction she could not say.

This set Melbury's fears on end.  He told the men to light lanterns, and headed by himself
they started, Creedle following at the last moment with quite a burden of grapnels and ropes,
which he could not be persuaded to leave behind, and the company being joined by the hollow-turner
and the man who kept the cider-house as they went along.

They explored the precincts of the village, and in a short time lighted upon the man-trap.
Its discovery simply added an item of fact without helping their conjectures; but Melbury's
indefinite alarm was greatly increased when, holding a candle to the ground, he saw in the
teeth of the instrument some frayings from Grace's clothing.  No intelligence of any kind was
gained till they met a woodman of Delborough, who said that he had seen a lady answering to
the description her father gave of Grace, walking through the wood on a gentleman's arm in
the direction of Sherton.

"Was he clutching her tight?" said Melbury.

"Well--rather," said the man.

"Did she walk lame?"

"Well, 'tis true her head hung over towards him a bit."

Creedle groaned tragically.

Melbury, not suspecting the presence of Fitzpiers, coupled this account with the man-trap and
the scream; he could not understand what it all meant; but the sinister event of the trap made
him follow on. Accordingly, they bore away towards the town, shouting as they went, and in
due course emerged upon the highway.

Nearing Sherton-Abbas, the previous information was confirmed by other strollers, though the
gentleman's supporting arm had disappeared from these later accounts.  At last they were so
near Sherton that Melbury informed his faithful followers that he did not wish to drag them
farther at so late an hour, since he could go on alone and inquire if the woman who had been
seen were really Grace.  But they would not leave him alone in his anxiety, and trudged onward
till the lamplight from the town began to illuminate their fronts.  At the entrance to the
High Street they got fresh scent of the pursued, but coupled with the new condition that the
lady in the costume described had been going up the street alone.

"Faith!--I believe she's mesmerized, or walking in her sleep," said Melbury.

However, the identity of this woman with Grace was by no means certain; but they plodded along
the street.  Percombe, the hair-dresser, who had despoiled Marty of her tresses, was standing
at his door, and they duly put inquiries to him. Rid the intact
bed sheets and blankets stirring, took his hat and overcoat, and went into the corridor. The old
and Angelina awaited me there. Aunt Pepa very battered with the shawl, the maid, fallen on the
shoulders coat, showed her beautiful face.

- Good morning - told me shy and timid.

I am sure that turned red as a poppy to shake my hand.

- Come on,
boy ... go!

What are you waiting for?

And you Angelina: Lady Jane to wake up at to stay with Carmen?

- Yes, ma'am.

- Well, let's go, Rorra that from here to San Antonio and we have
to walk.

Far, but there go, - repeat - there are stories, and rattles, and tambourines, and string music
that plays sounds and happy parts, and the mass is not long .... How that says P. Solis!

We take up the street, a narrow and uneven pavement.

Excruciating had to climb hill.

The chapel of San Antonio is in the Barrio Alto.

From there you can enjoy a beautiful panorama.

The burning lanterns with dim light.

The serene extinguished their torches, and women's groups and children
were rushed to the temple.

The mother scolded the kids because they sounded their horns and tambourines, and fearing
that a precise time and others they remain dumb.

I offered my arm to the elderly.

- No, - he said - I better off alone!

Give the lady ....

Angelina not refused, but I realized that accepted him for commitment. He stopped aunt Pepa
and smilingly told us:

- Nice figure! The following old heartthrobs!

Angelina wanted to unbind his arm, but I would not let him.

Find new groups that were in a hurry, no doubt to win place in the chapel. In one corner ran
into some "nacateros' their way to market heavily loaded with large
pieces of bloody flesh.

Upon arriving at the square in front of us spent a milkman, riding a pony, a pitcher on either
side. He greeted us respectfully. He was young, well clearly told us her fresh and clean voice

-
It ....-- Mauricio said Angelina.

- The Santa Clara dairy .... Of the estate of Mr. Fernandez ....--
added the old woman addressing me.

When we climbed the stairs we saw people crowded into the door. Not yet opened the sexton,
and all were struggling to put in a good place to go first.

The chapel of San Antonio, the "sanctuary", as they call the old villaverdinos, is a Churrigueresque
church, very well prepared and placed on top of a hill from which
dominates the skyline.

The cemetery is bounded with a fence that has paths doors on three sides. Four aged cypresses give
the site a burial, the true appearance of the cemetery.

Pepilla aunt did not want to get to the point where the devotees were scrambling to break through,
and sat on the top step of the staircase.

Laughed the boys, the girls chattered, scolded the old, and was a
small fry around, with incessant noise of bells and whistles of water
wonderfully mimicked the chirping of a chorus of larks.

Angelina and I approached the gate, toward the city.

And no ringing in the towers. In each of them a high-pitched bell, urgent and shrill, called
the faithful.

Not yet dawn. Villaverde lanterns glowed in the dark streets and
above the rooftops like a swarm of fireflies. The waning sky in lights,
and a peaceful glauca clear, pure and peaceful atmosphere and as the
cool breeze that rocked the cypress, was flooding the sky. Orion sank
between the peaks of the Andes, and Ursa Major down to the valleys
of Pluviosilla. In the region where vague dawn heralded the dawn.
The whole valley revived, the Stony ran garrulous and singer, as if
its waves softly repeated the strange harmony of the chimes.

The
clear skies that night almost winter was gradually losing its immense
serenity. Of vague whiteness that dawned in the eastern peaks of the
soft blue-green ink everything invaded, rose slowly, first swing and
indefinable, then different and well shaped, colored clouds and clouds
of violet, through which we saw the stars disappear between bursts
of fire. The church bells were calling the river was still singing,
and whispering the woods, and came from the forests and glens something
like distant sound of orchestras mysterious ran back in the mountains,
in the depths of the mountains, unheard symphony.

Was opened, at
last, the door of the chapel, and the crowd rushed into the sacred
precinct.

Elbows on the fence we beheld the spectacle of this splendid
entrancing twilight Villaverde landscape lit by the red glare of the
rising day on fire furnace with reflections of the colored clouds
on the horizon that rowed.

- Angelina - I cried, shaking hands with
the girl - you love me forever, forever, as I love you?

- Always!
- Answered trembling .-- As today, and tomorrow, even after death! Melbury himself, restless as usual, walked to the door while he waited for them,
and looked up and down the street.

"I'd gie her a good shaking if she were my maid; pretending to go out in the garden, and leading
folk a twelve-mile traipse that have got to get up at five o'clock to morrow," said a bark-ripper;
who, not working regularly for Melbury, could afford to indulge in strong opinions.

"I don't speak so warm as that," said the hollow-turner, "but if 'tis right for couples to
make a country talk about their separating, and excite the neighbors, and then make fools of
'em like this, why, I haven't stood upon one leg for five-and-twenty year."

All his listeners knew that when he alluded to his foot-lathe in these enigmatic terms, the
speaker meant to be impressive; and Creedle chimed in with, "Ah, young women do wax wanton
in these days! Why couldn't she ha' bode with her father, and been faithful?" Poor Creedle
was thinking of his old employer.

"But this deceiving of folks is nothing unusual in matrimony," said Farmer Bawtree.  "I knowed
a man and wife--faith, I don't mind owning, as there's no strangers here, that the pair were
my own relations--they'd be at it that hot one hour that you'd hear the poker and the tongs
and the bellows and the warming-pan flee across the house with the movements of their vengeance;
and the next hour you'd hear 'em singing 'The Spotted Cow' together as peaceable as two holy
twins; yes--and very good voices they had, and would strike in like professional ballet-singers
to one another's support in the high notes."

"And I knowed a woman, and the husband o' her went away for four-and-twenty year," said the
bark-ripper.  "And one night he came home when she was sitting by the fire, and thereupon he
sat down himself on the other side of the chimney-corner.  'Well,' says she, 'have ye got any
news?'  'Don't know as I have,' says he; 'have you?'  'No,' says she, 'except that my daughter
by my second husband was married last month, which was a year after I was made a widow by him.'
'Oh! Anything else?' he says.  'No,' says she. And there they sat, one on each side of that
chimney-corner, and were found by their neighbors sound asleep in their chairs, not having
known what to talk about at all."

"Well, I don't care who the man is," said Creedle, "they required a good deal to talk about,
and that's true. No birth .... Who gets us
into trouble? I am well pleased, for the little master is remembered when was "coconete."
Remember? For here, in the cellar, in a drawer, are stored the cottages, and shepherds and flocks,
and the portal, and everything!

"How many climates may there be in courtship, Mr. Upjohn?" inquired a youth--the same who had
assisted at Winterborne's Christmas party.

"Five--from the coolest to the hottest--leastwise there was five in mine."

"Can ye give us the chronicle of 'em, Mr. Upjohn?"

"Yes--I could.  I could certainly. 

T

baldric: strip of leather or other material, which crosses from
the right shoulder on the left side waist where the two ends together
and put the sword.

inlay: fabric made with small pieces of different
colors, also called salad.

tendal: flooring space where you put the
coffee to dry in the sun.

tiple, guitar very sharp voice.

tumbaga:
alloy of gold and copper that make certain works of art, especially
jewelry inexpensive, such as rings, earrings, etc..

tunic: complete
female attire.

  I should never have supposed it of such a girl."

Melbury now returned to the room, and the men having declared themselves refreshed, they all
started on the homeward journey, which was by no means cheerless under the rays of the high
moon. Having to walk the whole distance they came by a foot-path rather shorter than the highway,
though difficult except to those who knew the country well. They set out with few, and arrived at Gallipoli the first of the captains. Dio
the welcome to the infant, and swore by his general and supreme head. Then after he came Fernan
Modico Jimenez Arenas, and went around to Berenguer. Mejoróseles party to these two rich men,
because its less powerful Vando always feared the Rocafort, and with the coming the infant seems
that everything had to calm down, and things outside of their homes by violence one, again to his,
and everyone would be estimated according to their merits, and quality.
  That evening had been the particular one of the week upon
which Grace and herself had been accustomed to privately deposit flowers on Giles's grave,
and this was the first occasion since his death, eight months earlier, on which Grace had failed
to keep her appointment.  Marty had waited in the road just outside Little Hintock, where her
fellow-pilgrim had been wont to join her, till she was weary; and at last, thinking that Grace
had missed her and gone on alone, she followed the way to Great Hintock, but saw no Grace in
front of her.  It got later, and Marty continued her walk till she reached the church-yard
gate; but still no Grace. Tell him, not as bad as they expected them and this encouraged
them to come very quietly to the door of the bedroom. Since there were watching the battle that
did not stop within the ruins of Don Celso, between the dream you drowsy and coughing he insisted,
until it rolled over in bed in one of those clashes, which left half suffocated, mouth and eyes
wide open and collecting air breathing, even with their hands.


Immediately they had dropped down the hill she entered the church-yard, going to a secluded
corner behind the bushes, where rose the unadorned stone that marked the last bed of Giles
Winterborne.  As this solitary and silent girl stood there in the moonlight, a straight slim
figure, clothed in a plaitless gown, the contours of womanhood so undeveloped as to be scarcely
perceptible, the marks of poverty and toil effaced by the misty hour, she touched sublimity
at points, and looked almost like a being who had rejected with indifference the attribute
of sex for the loftier quality of abstract humanism. 

But the more hopeless they were, behold, Consuelo, dazed and determined little girl that had recently
been perched on a tree, talk to your ear to a partner and then forward and says, in horror of his
companions:

- I upload.