THE FAITH OF THE MILLIONS

A SELECTION OF PAST ESSAYS

SECOND SERIES

BY

GEORGE TYRRELL, S.J.

1901

"AND SEEING THE MULTITUDES HE WAS MOVED WITH COMPASSION ON THEM, FOR THEY WERE HARASSED AND
SCATTERED AS SHEEP HAVING NO SHEPHERD." (Matthew ix. 36.)

  Nil Obstat:
     J. GERARD, S.J.
         CENS. THEOL. DEPUTATUS.

  Imprimatur:
     HERBERTUS CARD. VAUGHAN,
         ARCHIEP. WESTMON.

CONTENTS

   XIII.--Juliana of Norwich
    XIV.--Poet and Mystic
     XV.--Two Estimates of Catholic Life
    XVI.--A Life of De Lamennais
   XVII.--Lippo, the Man and the Artist
  XVIII.--Through Art to Faith
    XIX.--Tracts for the Million
     XX.--An Apostle of Naturalism
    XXL.--"The Making of Religion"
   XXII.--Adaptability as a Proof of Religion
  XXIII.--Idealism in Straits

XIII.

JULIANA OF NORWICH.

"One of the most remarkable books of the middle ages," writes Father Dalgairns, [1] "is the
hitherto almost unknown work, titled, Sixteen Revelations of Divine Love made to a Devout Servant
of God, called Mother Juliana, an Anchoress of Norwich" How "one of the most remarkable books"
should be "hitherto almost unknown," may be explained partly by the fact to which the same
writer draws attention, namely, that Mother Juliana lived and wrote at the time when a certain
mystical movement was about to bifurcate and pursue its course of development, one branch within
the Church on Catholic lines, the other outside the Church along lines whose actual issue was
Wycliffism and other kindred forms of heterodoxy, and whose logical outcome was pantheism.
Hence, between the language of these pseudo-mystics and that of the recluse of Norwich, "there
is sometimes a coincidence ... which might deceive the unwary." It is almost necessarily a
feature of every heresy to begin by using the language of orthodoxy in a strained and non-natural
sense, and only gradually to develop a distinctive terminology of its own; but, as often as
not, certain ambiguous expressions, formerly taken in an orthodox sense, are abandoned by the
faithful on account of their ambiguity and are then appropriated to the expression of heterodoxy,
so that eventually by force of usage the heretical meaning comes to be the principal and natural
meaning, and any other interpretation to seem violent and non-natural. "The few coincidences,"
continues Father Dalgairns, "between Mother Juliana and Wycliffe are among the many proofs
that the same speculative view often means different things in different systems. Both St.
Augustine, Calvin, and Mahomet, believe in predestination, yet an Augustinian is something
utterly different from a Scotch Cameronian or a Mahometan.... The idea which runs through the
whole of Mother Juliana is the very contradictory of Wycliffe's Pantheistic Necessitarianism."
Yet on account of the mere similarity of expression we can well understand how in the course
of time some of Mother Juliana's utterances came to be more ill-sounding to faithful ears in
proportion as they came to be more exclusively appropriated by the unorthodox. It is hard to
be as vigilant when danger is remote as when it is near at hand; and until heresy has actually
wrested them to its purpose it is morally impossible that the words of ecclesiastical and religious
writers should be so delicately balanced as to avoid all ambiguities and inaccuracies. Still
less have we a right to look for such exactitude in the words of an anchoress who, if not wholly
uneducated in our sense of the word, yet on her own confession "could no letter," i.e., as
we should say, was no scholar, and certainly made no pretence to any skill in technical theology.
But however much some of her expressions may jar with the later developments of Catholic theology,
it must be remembered, as has been said, that they were current coin in her day, common to
orthodox and unorthodox; and that though their restoration is by no means desirable, yet they
are still susceptive of a "benignant" interpretation. "I pray Almighty God," says Mother Juliana
in concluding, "that this book come not but into the hands of those that will be His faithful
lovers, and that will submit them to the faith of Holy Church." [2] And indeed such can receive
no possible harm from its perusal, beyond a little temporary perplexity to be dispelled by
inquiry; and this only in the case of those who are sufficiently instructed and reflective
to perceive the discord in question. The rest are well used in their reading to take what is
familiar and to leave what is strange, so that they will find in her pages much to ponder,
and but a little to pass over.

It is, however, not only to these occasional obscurities and ambiguities that we are to ascribe
the comparative oblivion into which so remarkable a book has fallen; but also to the fact that
its noteworthiness is perhaps more evident and relative to us than to our forefathers. It cannot
but startle us to find doubts that we hastily look upon as peculiarly "modern," set forth in
their full strength and wrestled with and overthrown by an unlettered recluse of the fourteenth
century. In some sense they are the doubts of all time, with perhaps just that peculiar complexion
which they assume in the light of Christianity. Yet, owing to the modern spread of education,
or rather to the indiscriminate divulgation of ideas, these problems are now the possession
of the man in the street, whereas in former days they were exclusively the property of minds
capable--not indeed of answering the unanswerable, but at least of knowing their own limitations
and of seeing why such problems must always exist as long as man is man. Dark as the age of
Mother Juliana was as regards the light of positive knowledge and information; yet the light
of wisdom burned at least as clearly and steadily then as now; and it is by that light alone
that the shades of unbelief can be dispelled. Of course, wisdom without knowledge must starve
or prey on its own vitals, and this was the intellectual danger of the middle ages; but knowledge
without wisdom is so much food undigested and indigestible, and this is the evil of our own
day, when to be passably well-informed so taxes our time and energy as to leave us no leisure
for assimilating the knowledge with which we have stuffed ourselves.

We must not, however, think of Mother Juliana as shut up within four walls of a cell, evolving
all her ideas straight from her own inner consciousness without any reference to experience.
Such a barren contemplation, tending to mental paralysis, belongs to Oriental pessimism, whose
aim is the extinction of life, mental and physical, and reabsorption into that void whence,
it is said, misfortune has brought us forth to troublous consciousness. The Christian contemplative
knows no ascent to God but by the ladder of creatures; he goes to the book of Nature and of
human life, and to the book of Revelation, and turns and ponders their pages, line by line
and word by word, and so feeds and fills the otherwise thin and shadowy conception of God in
his own soul, and ever pours new oil upon the flame of Divine love. Father Daigairns writes:
"Juliana is a recluse very different from the creatures of the imagination of writers on comparative
morals. So far from being cut off from sympathy with her kind, her mind is tenderly and delicately
alive to every change in the spiritual atmosphere of England.... The four walls of her narrow
home seem to be rent and torn asunder, and not only England but Christendom appears before
her view;" and he is at pains to show how both anchorites and anchoresses were much-sought
after by all in trouble, temporal or spiritual, and how abundant were their opportunities of
becoming acquainted with human life and its burdens, and of more than compensating, through
the confidences of others, whatever defect their minds might suffer through lack of personal
experience. Even still, how many a priest or nun whose experience had else been narrowed to
the petty domestic interests of a small family, is, in virtue of his or her vocation, put in
touch with a far larger world, or with a far more important aspect of the world, than many
who mingle with its every-day trivialities, and is thus made a partaker in some sense of the
deeper life and experience of society and of the Universal Church! The anchoress "did a great
deal more than pray. The very dangers against which the author of her rule [3] warns her, are
a proof that she had many visitors. He warns her against becoming a 'babbling' or 'gossiping'
anchoress, a variety evidently well-known; a recluse whose cell was the depository of all the
news from the neighbourhood at a time when newspapers did not exist." Such abuses throw light
upon the legitimate use of the anchoress's position in the mediæval community.

And so, though Mother Juliana "could no letter," though she knew next to nothing of the rather
worthless physical science of those times, and hardly more of philosophy or technical theology,
yet she knew no little of that busy, sad, and sinful human life going on round her, not only
at Norwich, but in England, and even in Europe; and rich with this knowledge, to which all
other lore is subordinate and for whose sake alone it is valuable, she betook herself to prayer
and meditation, and brought all this experience into relation with God, and drew from it an
ever clearer understanding of Him and of His dealings with the souls that His Love has created
and redeemed.

It is not then so wonderful that this wise and holy woman should have faced the problems presented
by the apparent discord between the truths of faith and the facts of human life--a discord
which is felt in every age by the observant and thoughtful, but which in our age is a commonplace
on the lips of even the most superficial. But an age takes its tone from the many who are the
children of the past, rather than from the few who are the parents of the future. Mother Juliana's
book could hardly have been in any sense "popular" until these days of ours, in which the particular
disease of mind to which it ministers has become epidemic.

If then these suggestions to some extent furnish an explanation of the oblivion into which
the revelations of Mother Juliana have fallen, they also justify the following attempt to draw
attention to them once more, and to give some sort of analysis of their contents; more especially
as we have reason to believe that they are about to be re-edited by a competent scholar and
made accessible to the general public, which they have not been since the comparative extinction
of Richardson's edition of 1877. Little is known of Mother Juliana's history outside what is
implied in her revelations; nor is it our purpose at present to go aside in search of biographical
details that will be of interest only after their subject has become interesting. Suffice it
here to say that she was thirty at the time of her revelations, which she tells us was in 1373.
Hence she was born in 1343, and is said to have been a centenarian, in which case she must
have died about 1443. She probably belonged to the Benedictine nuns at Carrow, near Norwich,
and being called to a still stricter life, retired to a hermitage close by the Church of St.
Julian at Norwich. The details she gives about her own sick-room exclude the idea of that stricter
"reclusion" which is popularly spoken of as "walling-up"--not of course in the mythical sense.

With these brief indications sufficient to satisfy the craving of our imagination for particulars
of time and place, let us turn to her own account of the circumstances of her visions, as well
as of their nature. When the clergy of Tours heard that King Chlothar [511-561; 558-561, as surviving
son of Chlodowech, sole ruler of the Franks] had returned from the slaughter of the Saxons,
they prepared the consensus (226) that they had chosen the priest Eufronius bishop and went to the
king. When they had presented the matter, the king answered:“ I had indeed commanded that
the priest Cato should be ordained there, and why has our command been disregarded?” They answered
him:“ We have indeed asked him, but he would not come.” And as they said this suddenly the priest Cato
appeared and besought the king to command that Cautinus be removed
and himself be appointed bishop of Arverne. (227) But when the king
laughed at this, he besought him again, that he might be ordained
for Tours, which he had before rejected.

Then the king said to him:“ I have already commanded that you should be consecrated bishop of
Tours, but, as I hear, you have despised that church; therefore you shall be withheld from the government
of it.” Thereupon he departed ashamed. But when the king asked concerning the holy Eufronius,
they said that he was a nephew of the holy Gregory, whom we have mentioned above. (228) The king
answered:“ That is a distinguished and very great family. Let the will of God and of the holy
Martin (229) be done; let the election be confirmed.” And after he had given a decree for the
ordination, the holy Eufronius was ordained as the eighth bishop
after St. Martin.

(230) (e) Gregory of Tours, Hist.

Franc., VIII, 22, (MSL, 71: 464.) Royal interference in episcopal elections was not infrequent
under the Merovingians. Confused as the following account is, it is clear from it that the
kings were accustomed to violate the canons and to exercise a free hand in episcopal appointments.
See also the preceding selection. The date of the event is 585.

For the Synod of Maçon, A. D. 585, see Hefele,§ 286. Laban, Bishop of Eauze, (231) died that year.
Desiderius, a layman, succeeded him, although the king had promised with an oath that he would
never again ordain a bishop from the laity. But to what will not the accursed hunger for gold
drive human hearts? Bertchramnus (232) had returned from the synod, (233) and on the way was
seized with a fever. The deacon Waldo was summoned, who in baptism had also been called Bertchramnus,
and he committed to him the whole of his episcopal office, as he also committed to him the provisions
regarding his testament, as well as those who merited well by him. As he departed the bishop breathed
out his spirit. The deacon returned and with presents and the consensus (234) of the people,
went to the king (235) but he obtained nothing. Then the king, having issued a mandate, commanded
Gundegisilus, count of Saintes, surnamed Dodo, to be consecrated bishop; and so it was done.
And because many of the clergy of Saintes before the synod had, in agreement with Bishop Bertchramnus,
written various things against their Bishop Palladius to humiliate him, after his (236) death they
were arrested by the bishop, severely tortured, and stripped of their
property.

(f) Chlotar II, Capitulary, A. D. 614. MGH, Leges, II. Capitularia Regum Francorum, ed. Boretius,
I, 20, MGH, Leges, 1883.

Not only did the councils admit the right of the king to approve the candidate for consecration
as bishop, but the kings laid down the principle that their approval was necessary. They also
legislated on the affairs of the Church, e. g., on the election of bishops. The text may also
be found in Altmann und Bernheim, Ausgewählte Urkunden. Berlin, 1904,
p. 1.

Ch. 1. It is our decree that the statutes of the canons be observed in all things, and those of
them which have been neglected in the past because of the circumstances of the times shall
hereafter be observed perpetually; so that when a bishop dies one shall be chosen for his place
by the clergy and people, who is to be ordained by the metropolitan and his provincials; if
the person be worthy let him be ordained by the order of the prince; but if he be chosen from
the palace (237) let him be ordained on account of the merit of his
person and his learning.

Ch.
2. That no bishop while living shall choose a successor, but another shall be substituted
for him when he become so indisposed that he cannot rule his church and clergy. Likewise, that
while a bishop is living no one shall presume to take his place,
and if one should seek it, it is on no account to be given him.

(g) Fredegarius Scholasticus, Chronicon, 75f.

(MSL,
71: 653.) The Chronicon of Fredegarius is important, as it continues
in its last book the History of the Franks by Gregory of Tours. The
best edition is in the MGH, Scriptores rerum Merovingicarum II, ed.
Krusch. An account of the work may be found in DCB, art.“ Fredegarius Scholasticus.”
In the Frankish kingdom the higher clergy, especially the bishops,
assembled with the great men of the realm in councils under the king
to discuss affairs of State. Presently all her pains, bodily and spiritual, return in full force; and the
consolation of the visions seems to her as an idle dream and delusion; and she answers to the
inquiries of a Religious at her bedside, that she had been raving: "And he laughed loud and
drolly. And I said: 'The cross that stood before my face, methought it bled fast.'" At which
the other looked so serious and awed that she became ashamed of her own incredulity. "I believed
Him truly for the time that I saw Him. And so it was then my will and my meaning to do, ever
without end--but, as a fool, I let it pass out of my mind. And lo! how wretched I was," &c.
Then she falls asleep and has a terrifying dream of the Evil One, of which she says: "This
ugly showing was made sleeping and so was none other," whence it seems that her self-consciousness
was unimpaired in the other visions; that is, she was aware at the time that they were visions,
and did not confound them with reality as dreams are confounded. Then follows the sixteenth
and last revelation; ending with the words: "Wit well it was no raving thou sawest to-day:
but take it, and believe it, and keep thee therein, and comfort thee therewith and trust thereto,
and thou shalt not be overcome." Then during the rest of the same night till about Prime next
morning she is tempted against faith and trust by the Evil One, of whose nearness she is conscious;
but comes out victorious after a sustained struggle. She understands from our Lord, that the
series of showings is now closed; "which blessed showing the faith keepeth, ... for He left
with me neither sign nor token whereby I might know it." Yet for her personally the obligation
not to doubt is as of faith: "Thus am I bound to keep it in my faith; for on the same day that
it was showed, what time the sight was passed, as a wretch I forsook it and openly said that
I raved."

Fifteen years later she gets an inward response as to the general gist and unifying purport
of the sixteen revelations. "Wit it well; love was His meaning. Who showed it thee? Love. Wherefore
showed He it thee? For love."

Having thus sketched the circumstances of the revelations, we may now address ourselves to
their character and substance.

There is nothing to favour and everything to disfavour the notion that Mother Juliana was an
habitual visionary, or was the recipient of any other visions, than those which she beheld
in her thirty-first year; and of these, she tells us herself, the whole sixteen took place
within a few hours. "Now have I told you of fifteen showings, ... of which fifteen showings,
the first began early in the morning about the hour of four, ... each following the other till
it was noon of the day or past, ... and after this the Good Lord showed me the sixteenth revelation
on the night following." Speaking of them all as one, she tells us: "And from the time it was
showed I desired oftentimes to wit what was in our Lord's meaning; and fifteen years after
and more I was answered in ghostly understanding, saying thus: 'What! wouldst thou wit thy
Lord's meaning in this thing? Wit it well: Love was His meaning.'" But this "ghostly understanding"
can hardly be pressed into implying another revelation of the evidently supernormal type.

We rather insist on this point, as indicating the habitual healthiness of Mother Juliana's
soul--a quality which is also abundantly witnessed by the unity and coherence of the doctrine
of her revelations, which bespeaks a mind well-knit together, and at harmony with itself. The
hysterical mind is one in which large tracts of consciousness seem to get detached from the
main body, and to take the control of the subject for the time being, giving rise to the phenomena
rather foolishly called double or multiple "personality." This is a disease proper to the passive-minded,
to those who give way to a "drifting" tendency, and habitually suffer their whole interests
to be absorbed by the strongest sensation or emotion that presents itself. Such minds are generally
chaotic and unorganized, as is revealed in the rambling, involved, interminably parenthetical
and digressive character of their conversation. But when, as with Mother Juliana, we find unity
and coherence, we may infer that there has been a life-long habit of active mental control,
such as excludes the supposition of an hysterical temperament.

Perhaps the similarity of the phenomena which attend both on extraordinary psychic weakness
and passivity, and on extraordinary energy and activity may excuse a confusion common enough,
and which we have dwelt on elsewhere. But obviously as far as the natural consequences of a
given psychic state are concerned, it is indifferent how that state is brought about. Thus,
that extreme concentration of the attention, that perfect abstraction from outward things,
which in hysterical persons is the effect of weakness and passive-mindedness--of the inability
to resist and shake off the spell of passions and emotions; is in others the effect of active
self-control, of voluntary concentration, of a complete mastery over passions and emotions.
Yet though the causes of the abnormal state are different, its effects may well be the same.

In thus maintaining the healthiness and vigour of Mother Juliana's mind, we may seem to be
implicitly treating her revelation, not as coming from a Divine source, but simply as an expression
of her own habitual line of thought--as a sort of pouring forth of the contents of her subconscious
memory. Our direct intention, however, is to show how very unlikely it is antecedently that
one so clear-headed and intelligent should be the victim of the common and obvious illusions
of the hysterical visionary. For her book contains not only the matter of her revelations,
but also the history of all the circumstances connected with them, as well as a certain amount
of personal comment upon them, professedly the fruit of her normal mind; and best of all, a
good deal of analytical reflection upon the phenomena which betrays a native psychological
insight not inferior to that of St. Teresa. From these sources we could gather the general
sobriety and penetration of her judgment, without assuming the actual teaching of the revelations
to be merely the unconscious self-projection of her own mind. But in so much as many of these
revelations were professedly Divine answers to her own questions, and since the answer must
ever be adapted not merely to the question considered in the abstract, but as it springs from
its context in the questioner's mind; we are not wrong, on this score alone, in arguing from
the character of the revelation to the character of the mind to which it was addressed. Fallible
men may often speak and write above or beside the intelligence of their hearers and readers;
but not so He who reads the heart He has made. Now these revelations were not addressed to
the Church through Mother Juliana; but, as she says, were addressed to herself and were primarily
for herself, though most that was said had reference to the human soul in general. They were
adapted therefore to the character and individuality of her mind; and are an index of its thoughts
and workings. For her they were a matter of faith; but, as she tells us, she had no token or
outward proof wherewith to convince others of their reality. Those who feel disposed, as we
ourselves do, to place much confidence in the word of one so perfectly sane and genuinely holy,
may draw profit from the message addressed to her need; but never can it be for them a matter
of faith as in a Divine message addressed directly or indirectly to themselves. So far as these
revelations are a clear and noble expression of truths already contained implicitly in our
faith and reason, which it brings into more explicit consciousness and vitalizes with a new
power of stimulus, they may be profitable to us all; but they must be received with due criticism
and discernment as themselves subject to a higher rule of truth--namely, the teaching of the
Universal Church.

But to determine, with respect to these and kindred revelations, how far they may be regarded
as an expression of the recipient's own mind and latent consciousness, will need a digression
which the general interest of the question must excuse.

There is a tendency in the modern philosophy of religion (for example, in Mr. Balfour's Foundations
of Belief) to rationalize inspired revelation and to explain it as altogether kindred to the
apparently magical intuitions of natural genius in non-religious matters; as the result, in
other words, of a rending asunder of the veil that divides what is called "super-liminal" from
"subliminal" consciousness; to find in prophecy and secret insight the effect of a flash of
unconscious inference from a mass of data buried in the inscrutable darkness of our forgotten
self. Together with this, there is also a levelling-up philosophy, a sort of modernized ontologism,
which would attribute all natural intuition to a more immediate self-revelation on God's part
than seems quite compatible with orthodoxy.

But neither of these philosophies satisfy what is vulgarly understood by "revelation," and
therefore both use the word in a somewhat strained sense. For certainly the first sense of
the term implies a consciousness on the part of the recipient of being spoken to, of being
related through such speech to another personality, whereas the flashes and intuitions of natural
genius, however they may resemble and be called "inspirations" because of their exceeding the
known resources of the thinker's own mind, yet they are consciously autochthonous; they are
felt to spring from the mind's own soil; not to break the soul's solitude with the sense of
an alien presence. Such interior illuminations, though doubtless in a secondary sense derived
from the "True Light which enlightens every man coming into this world," certainly do not fulfil
the traditional notion of revelation as understood, not only in the Christian Church, but also
in all ethnic religions. For common to antiquity is the notion of some kind of possession or
seizure, some usurpation of the soul's faculties by an external personality, divine or diabolic,
for its own service and as its instrument of expression--a phenomenon, in fact, quite analogous,
if not the same in species, with that of hypnotic control and suggestion, where the thought
and will of the subject is simply passive under the thought and will of the agent.

Saints and contemplatives are wont--not without justification--to speak of their lights in
prayer, and of the ordinary intuitions of their mind, under the influence of grace, as Divine
utterances in a secondary sense; to say, "God said to me," or "seemed to say to me," or "God
showed me," and so on. But to confound these products of their own mind with revelation is
the error only of the uninstructed or the wilfully self-deluded. Therefore, as commonly understood,
"revelation" implies the conscious control of the mind by another mind; just as its usual correlative,
"inspiration," implies the conscious control of the will by another will.

There can be no doubt whatever but that Mother Juliana of Norwich considered her revelations
to be of this latter description, and not to have been merely different in degree from those
flashes of spiritual insight with which she was familiar in her daily contemplations and prayers.
How far, then, her own mind may have supplied the material from which the tissues were woven,
or lent the colours with which the pictures were painted, or supplied the music to which the
words were set, is what we must now try to determine.

II.

Taking the terms "revelation" and "inspiration" in the unsophisticated sense which they have
borne not only in the Judaeo-Christian tradition, but in almost all the great ethnic religions
as well, we may inquire into the different sorts and degrees of the control exercised by the
presumably supernatural agents over the recipient of such influence. For clearness' sake we
may first distinguish between the control of the cognitive, the volitional, and the executive
faculties. For our present inquiry we may leave aside those cases where the control of the
executive faculties, normally subject to the will and directed by the mind, seem to be wrested
from that control by a foreign agent possessed of intelligence and volition, as, for example,
in such a case as is narrated of the false prophet Balaam, or of those who at the Pentecostal
outpouring spoke correctly in languages unintelligible to themselves, or of the possessed who
were constrained in spite of themselves to confess Christ. In these and similar cases, not
only is the action involuntary or even counter to the will, but it manifests such intelligent
purpose as seemingly marks it to be the effect of an alien will and intelligence. Of this kind
of control exercised by the agent over the outer actions of the patient, it may be doubted
if it be ever effected except through the mediation of a suggestion addressed to the mind,
in such sort that though not free, the resulting action is not wholly involuntary. Be this
as it may, our concern at present is simply with control exercised over the will and the understanding.

With regard to the will, it is a commonplace of mystical theology that God, who gave it its
natural and essential bent towards the good of reason, i.e., towards righteousness and the
Divine will; who created it not merely as an irresistible tendency towards the happiness and
self-realization of the rational subject, but as a resistible tendency towards its true, happiness
and true self-realization--that this same God can directly modify the will without the natural
mediation of some suggested thought. We ourselves, by the laborious cultivation of virtue,
gradually modify the response of our will to certain suggestions, making it more sensitive
to right impulses, more obtuse to evil impulses. According to mystic theology, it is the prerogative
of God to dispense with this natural method of education, and, without violating that liberty
of choice (which no inclination can prejudice), to incline the rational appetite this way or
that; not only in reference to some suggested object, but also without reference to any distinct
object whatsoever, so that the soul should be abruptly filled with joy or sadness, with fear
or hope, with desire or aversion, and yet be at a loss to determine the object of these spiritual
passions. St. Ignatius Loyola, in his "Rules for Discerning Spirits," borrowed no doubt from
the current mystical theology of his day, makes this absence of any suggested object a criterion
of "consolation" coming from God alone--a criterion always difficult to apply owing to the
lightning subtlety of thoughts that flash across the soul and are forgotten even while their
emotional reverberation yet remains. Where there was a preceding thought to account for the
emotion, he held that the "consolation" might be the work of spirits (good or evil) who could
not influence the will directly, but only indirectly through the mind; or else it might be
the work of the mind itself, whose thoughts often seem to us abrupt through mere failure of
self-observation.

Normally what is known as an "actual grace" involves both an illustration of the mind, and
an enkindling of the will; but though supernatural, such graces are not held to be miraculous
or preternatural, or to break the usual psychological laws of cause and effect; like the ordinary
answers to prayer, they are from God's ordinary providence in that supernatural order which
permeates but does not of itself interfere with the natural. But over and above what, relatively
to our observation, we call the "ordinary" course, there is the extraordinary, whose interference
with it is apparent, though of course not absolute or real--since nothing can be out of harmony
with the first and highest law, which is God Himself. And to the category of the extraordinary
must be assigned such inspirations and direct will-movements as we here speak of. [5]

Yet not altogether; for in the natural order, too, we have the phenomenon of instinct to consider--both
spiritual and animal. Giving heredity all the credit we can for storing up accumulated experience
in the nervous system of each species, there remains a host of fundamental animal instincts
which that law is quite inadequate to explain; those, for example, which govern the multiplication
of the species and secure the conditions under which alone heredity can work. Such cannot be
at once the effect and the essential condition of heredity; and yet they are, of all instincts,
the most complex and mysterious. Indeed, it seems more scientific to ascribe other instincts
to the same known and indubitable, if mysterious, cause, than to seek explanation in causes
less known and more hypothetical. In the case of many instincts, it would seem that the craving
for the object precedes the distinct cognition of it; that the object is only ascertained when,
after various tentative gropings, it is stumbled upon, almost, it might seem, by chance. And
this seems true, also, of some of our fundamental spiritual instincts; for example, that craving
of the mind for an unified experience, which is at the root of all mental activity, and whose
object is ever approached yet never attained; or, again, there is the social and political
instinct, which has not yet formed a distinct and satisfying conception of what it would be
at. Or nearer still to our theme, is the natural religious instinct which seeks interpretations
and explanatory hypotheses in the various man-made religions of the race, and which finds itself
satisfied and transcended by the Christian revelation.

In these and like instances, we find will-movements not caused by the subjects' own cognitions
and perceptions, but contrariwise, giving birth to cognitions, setting the mind to work to
interpret the said movements, and to seek out their satisfying objects.

This is quite analogous to certain phenomena of the order of grace. St. Ignatius almost invariably
speaks, not, as we should, of thoughts that give rise to will-states of "consolation" or "desolation,"
but conversely, of these will-states giving rise to congruous thoughts. Indeed, nothing is
more familiar to us than the way in which the mind is magnetized by even our physical states
of elation or depression, to select the more cheerful or the gloomier aspects of life, according
as we are under one influence or the other; and in practice, we recognize the effect of people's
humours on their opinions and decisions, and would neither sue mercy nor ask a favour of a
man in a temper. In short, it is hardly too much to say, that our thoughts are more dependent
on our feelings than our feelings on our thoughts. This, then, is one possible method of supernatural
guidance which we shall call "blind inspiration"--for though the feeling or impulse is from
God, the interpretation is from the subject's own mind. It is curious how St. Ignatius applies
this method to the determining of the Divine will in certain cases--as it were, by the inductive
principle of "concomitant variation." A suggestion that always comes and grows with a state
of "consolation," and whose negative is in like manner associated with "desolation," is presumably
the right interpretation of the blind impulse. [6] And perhaps this is one of the commonest
subjective assurances of faith, namely, that our faith grows and declines with what we know
intuitively to be our better moods; that when lax we are sceptical, and believing when conscientious.

Another species of will-guidance recognized by saints, is not so much by way of a vague feeling
seeking interpretation, as by way of a sort of enforced decision with regard to some naturally
suggested course of conduct. And this, perhaps, is what is more technically understood by an
inspiration; as, for example, when the question of writing or not writing something publicly
useful, say, the records of the Kings of Israel, rises in the mind, and it is decided for and
in the subject, but not by him. Of course this "inspiration" is a common but not essential
accompaniment of "revelation" or "mind-control,"--in those cases, namely, where the communicated
information is for the good of others; as, also, where it is for the guidance of the practical
conduct of the recipient. Such "inspiration" at times seems to be no more than a strong inclination
compatible with liberty; at other times it amounts to such a "fixing" of the practical judgment
as would ordinarily result from a determination of the power of choice--if that were not a
contradiction. Better to say, it is a taking of the matter out of the jurisdiction of choice,
by the creation of an idée fixe [7] in the subject's mind.

Turning now to "revelation" in the stricter sense of a preternatural enlightenment of the mind,
it might conceivably be either by way of a real accretion of knowledge--an addition to the
contents of the mind--or else by way of manipulating contents already there, as we ourselves
do by reminiscence, by rumination, comparison, analysis, inference. Thus we can conceive the
mind being consciously controlled in these operations, as it were, by a foreign will; being
reminded of this or that; being shown new consequences, applications, and relations of truths
already possessed.

When, however, there is a preternatural addition to the sum total of the mind's knowledge,
we can conceive the communication to be effected through the outer senses, as by visions seen
(real or symbolic), or words heard; or through the imagination--pictorial, symbolic, or verbal;
visual or auditory; or, finally, in the very reason and intelligence itself, whose ideas are
embodied in these images and signs, and to whose apprehension they are all subservient.

Now from all this tedious division and sub-division it may perhaps be clear in how many different
senses the words of such a professed revelation as Mother Juliana has left on record can be
regarded as preternatural utterances; or rather, in how many different ways she herself may
have considered them such, and wished them so to be considered. Indeed, as we shall see, she
has done a good deal more to determine this, in regard to the various parts of her record,
than most have done, and it is for that reason that we have taken the opportunity to open up
the general question. Such a record might then be, either wholly or in part:

  (a) The work of religious "inspiration" or genius, in the sense
  in which rationalists use the word, levelling the idea down to the same
  plane as that of artistic inspiration.

  (b) Or else it might be "inspired" as mystic philosophy or
  ontologism uses the expression, when it ascribes all natural insight to
  a more or less directly divine enlightenment.

  (c) Or, taking the word more strictly as implying the influence
  of a distinct personal agency over the soul of the writer, it might be
  that the record simply expresses an attempted interpretation, an
  imaginary embodiment, of some blind preternatural stirring of the
  writer's affections--analogous to the romances and dreams created in the
  imagination at the first awakening of the amatory affections.

  (d) Or, the matter being in no way from preternatural sources,
  the strong and perhaps irresistible impulse to record and publish it,
  might be preternatural.

  (e) Or (in addition to or apart from such an impulse), it might
  be a record of certain truths already contained implicitly in the
  writer's mind, but brought to remembrance or into clear recognition, not
  by the ordinary free activity of reason, but, as it were, by an alien
  will controlling the mind.

  (f) Or, if really new truths or facts are communicated to the mind
  from without, this may be effected in various ways: (i) By the way of
  verbal "inspiration," as when the very words are received apparently
  through the outer senses; or else put together in the imagination.
  (ii) Or, the matter is presented pictorially (be it fact or symbol)
  to the outer senses or to the imagination; and then described or
  "word-painted" according to the writer's own ability. (iii) Or, the
  truth is brought home directly to the intelligence; and gets all its
  imaginative and verbal clothing from the recipient.

Many other hypotheses are conceivable, but most will be reducible to one or other of these.
We may perhaps add that, when the revelation is given for the sake of others, this purpose
might be frustrated, were not a substantial fidelity of expression and utterance also secured.
This would involve, at least, that negative kind of guidance of the tongue or pen, known technically
as "assistance." For the bodily sight, I have said as I saw, as truly as I can" (that is, the
appearances were, she believed, from God, but the description of them was her own). "And for
the words I have said them right as our Lord showed them to me" (for here nothing was her own,
but bare fidelity of utterance). "And for the ghostly sight I have said some deal, but I may
never full tell it" (that is to say, no language or imagery of her own can ever adequately
express the spiritual truths revealed to her higher reason). As a rule she makes it quite clear
throughout, which of these three kinds of showing is being described. We have an example of
bodily vision when she saw "the red blood trickling down from under the garland," and in all
else that seemed to happen to the crucifix on which her open eyes were set. And of all this
she says: "I conceived truly and mightily that it was Himself that showed it me, without any
mean between us;" that is, she took it as a sort of pictorial language uttered directly by
Christ, even as if He had addressed her in speech; she took it not merely as having a meaning,
but as designed and uttered to convey a meaning--for to speak is more than to let one's mind
appear. Or again, it is by bodily vision she sees a little hasel-nut in her hand, symbolic
of the "naughting of all that is made." Of words formed in her imagination she tells us, for
example, "Then He (i.e., Christ as seen on the crucifix) without voice and opening of lips
formed in my soul these words: Herewith is the fiend overcome." Of "ghostly sight," or spiritual
intuition, we have an instance when she says: "In the same time that I saw (i.e., visually)
this sight of the Head bleeding, our good Lord showed a ghostly sight of His homely loving.
I saw that He is to us everything that is comfortable to our help; He is our clothing, that
for love wrappeth us," &c.--where, in her own words and imagery, she is describing a divine-given
insight into the relation of God and the soul. Or again, when she is shown our Blessed Lady,
it is no pictorial or bodily presentment, "but the virtues of her blissful soul, her truth,
her wisdom, her charity." "And Jesus ... showed me a ghostly sight of her, right as I had seen
her before, little and simple and pleasing to Him above all creatures."

Just as in the setting forth of these spiritual apprehensions, the words and imagery are usually
her own, so in the description of bodily vision she uses her own language and comparisons.
For example, the following realism: "The great drops of blood fell down from under the garland
like pellets, seeming as it had come out of the veins; and in coming out they were brown red,
for the Blood was full thick, and in spreading abroad they were bright red.... The plenteousness
is like to drops of water that fall off the eavings after a great shower of rain.... And for
roundness they were like to the scales of herrings in the spreading of the forehead," &c. These
similes, she tells us, "came to my mind in the time." In other instances, the comparisons and
illustrations of what she saw with her eyes or with her understanding, were suggested to her;
so that she received the expression, as well as the matter expressed, from without.

But besides the records of the sights, words, and ideas revealed to her, we have many things
already known to her and understood, yet "brought to her mind," as it were, preternaturally.
Also, various paraphrases and elaborate exegeses of the words spoken to her; a great abundance
of added commentary upon what she saw inwardly or outwardly. Now and then it is a little difficult
to decide whether she is speaking for herself, or as the exponent of what she has received;
but, on the whole, she gives us abundant indications. Perhaps the following passage will illustrate
fairly the diverse elements of which the record is woven:

With good cheer our Lord looked into His side and beheld with joy [bodily vision]: and with
His sweet looking He led forth the understanding of His creature, by the same wound, into His
side within [her imagination is led by gesture from one thought to another]. [9] And then He
showed a fair and delectable place, and large enough for all mankind that should be saved,
and rest in peace and love [a conception of the understanding conveyed through the symbol of
the open wound in the Heart]. And therewith He brought to my mind His dear worthy Blood and
the precious water which He let pour out for love [a thought already contained in the mind,
but brought to remembrance by Christ]. And with His sweet rejoicing Pie showed His blessed
Heart cloven in two [bodily or imaginative vision], and with His rejoicing He showed to my
understanding, in part, the Blissful Godhead as far forth as He would at that time strengthen
the poor soul for to understand [an enlightening of the reason to the partial apprehension
of a spiritual mystery]. And with this our Good Lord said full blissfully: "Lo! how I love
thee!" [words formed in the imagination or for the outer hearing], as if He had said: "My darling,
behold, and see thy Lord," &c. [her own paraphrase and interpretation of the said words].

Rarely, however, are the different modes so entangled as here, and for the most part we have
little difficulty in discerning the precise origin to which she wishes her utterances to be
attributed--a fact that makes her book an unusually interesting study in the theory of inspiration.

Thus, in provisionally answering the problem proposed at the beginning of this article, as
to how far Mother Juliana supplied from her own mind the canvas and the colours for this portrayal
of Divine love, and as to how far therefore it may be regarded as a product of and a key to
her inner self, we are inclined to say that, a comparison of her own style of thought and sentiment
and expression as exhibited in her paraphrases and expositions of the things revealed to her,
with the substance and setting of the said revelations, points to the conclusion that God spoke
to her soul in its own language and habitual forms of thought; and that if the "content" of
the revelation was partly new, yet it was harmonious with the previous "content" of her mind,
being, as it were, a congruous development of the same--not violently thrust into the soul,
but set down softly in the appointed place already hollowed for it and, so to say, clamouring
for it as for its natural fulfilment. This, of course, is not a point for detailed and rigorous
proof, but represents an impression that gathers strength the oftener we read and re-read Mother
Juliana's "showings."

Jan. Mar. 1900.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: Prefatory Essay to Walter Hilton's Scale of Perfection.]

[Footnote 2: The Protestant editor of the Leicester edition (of 1845), not understanding that
an appreciation of difficulties, far from being incompatible with faith, is a condition of
the higher and more intelligent faith, would fain credit Mother Juliana with a secret disaffection
towards the Church's authority. How far he is justif may be gathered from such passages as
these: "In this way was I taught by the grace of God that I should steadfastly hold me fast
in the faith, as I had before understood." "It was not my meaning to take proof of anything
that belongeth to our faith, for I believed truly that Hell and Purgatory is for the same end
that Holy Church teacheth." "And I was strengthened and learned generally to keep me in the
faith in every point ... that I might continue therein to my life's end." "God showed full
great pleasaunce that He hath in all men and women, that mightily and wisely take the preaching
and teaching of Holy Church; for it is His Holy Church; He is the ground; He is the substance;
He is the teaching; He is the teacher," &c.]

[Footnote 3: Ancren Riwle.]

[Footnote 4: It is clear from many little touches and allusions that throughout the "showings"
Mother Juliana considers herself to be gazing, not on a vision of Calvary, but on the illuminated
crucifix hung before her by her attendants, in which crucifix these appearances of bleeding,
suffering, movement, and speech take place. All else is shrouded in darkness. Yet she never
loses the consciousness that she is in her bed and surrounded by others. Notice, for instance:
"After this, I saw with bodily sight in the face of the crucifix that hung before me," &c.
"The cross that stood before my face, methought it bled fast." "This [bleeding] was so plenteous,
to my sight, that methought if it had been so in nature and substance" (i.e., in reality and
not merely in appearance), "it should have made the bed all a-blood, and have passed over all
about." "For this sight I laughed mightily, and made them to laugh that were about me." Evidently
she is quite awake, is well conscious of her state and surroundings, and distinguishes appearance
from reality, shadow from substance. There is no dream-like illusion in all this. Appearances
presented to the outer senses are commonly spoken of as "hallucinations;" but it seems to me
that this word were better reserved for those cases where appearance is mistaken for reality;
and where consequently there is illusion and deception. Mother Juliana is aware that the crucifix
is not really bleeding, as it seems to do, and she explicitly distinguishes such a vision from
her later illusory dream-presentment of the Evil One. This dream while it lasted was, like
all dreams, confounded with reality; whereas the other phenomena, even if made of "dream-stuff,"
were rated at their true value. Hence it seems to me that if such things have any outward independent
reality, to see them is no more an hallucination than to see a rainbow. Even if they are projected
from the beholder's brain, there is no hallucination if they are known for such; but only when
they are confounded with reality, as it were, in a waking-dream. As we are here using the word,
an experience is "real" which fits in with, and does not contradict the totality of our experiences;
which does not falsify our calculation or betray our expectancy. If I look at a fly through
a magnifying medium of whose presence I am unconscious, its size is apparent, or illusory,
and not real; for being unaware of the unusual condition of my vision, I shall be thrown out
in my calculations, and the harmony of my experiences will be upset by seeming contradictions.
If, however, I am aware of the medium and its nature, then I am not deceived, and what I see
is "reality," since it is as natural and real for the fly to look larger through the optician's
lense, as to look smaller through the optic lense. I cannot call one aspect more "real" than
the other, for both are equally right and true under the given conditions. For these reasons
I should object to consider Mother Juliana's "bodily showings" as hallucinations, so far as
the term seems to imply illusion.]

[Footnote 5: For those therefore who make an act of faith in the absolute universality and
supremacy of the laws of physics and chemistry, and find in them the last reason of all things,
these phenomena are interesting only as studies in the mechanics of illusion.]

[Footnote 6: It was largely by this method, supplemented no doubt by that of reasoned discussion,
that St. Ignatius guided himself in determining points connected with the constitution of his
Order, according to the journal he has left us of his "experiences," which is simply a record
of "consolations" and "desolations."]

[Footnote 7: i.e., A kinæsthetic idea, as it is called, an idea of something to be done in
the given conditions.]

[Footnote 8: P. 272 in Richardson's Edit., from which I usually quote as being the readiest
available.]

[Footnote 9: On another occasion, by looking down to the right of His Cross, He brought to
her mind, "where our Lady stood in the time of His Passion and said: 'Wilt Thou see her?'"
leading her by gesture from the seen to the not seen.]

XIV.

POET AND MYSTIC.

A biographer who has any other end in view, however secondary and incidental, than faithfully
to reproduce in the mind of his readers his own apprehension of the personality of his subject,
will be so far biassed in his task of selection; and, without any conscious deviation from
truth, will give that undue prominence to certain features and aspects which in extreme cases
may result in caricature. A Catholic biographer of Coventry Patmore would have been tempted
to gratify the wish of a recent critic of Mr. Champneys' very efficient work, [1] and to devote
ten times as much space as has been given to the account of his conversion, and a good deal,
no doubt, to the discussion and correction of his eccentric views in certain ecclesiastical
matters; thus giving us the history of an illustrious convert, and not that of a poet and seer
whose conversion, however intimately connected with his poetical and intellectual life, was
but an incident thereof. On the other hand, one less intelligently sympathetic with the more
spiritual side of Catholicism than Mr. Champneys, would have lacked the principal key to the
interpretation of Patmore's highest aims and ideals, towards which the whole growth and movement
of his mind was ever tending, and by which its successive stages of evolution are to be explained.
Again, with all possible respect for the feelings of the living, the biographer has wisely
suppressed nothing needed to bring out truthfully the ruggednesses and irregularities that
characterize the strong and somewhat one-sided development of genius as contrasted with the
regular features and insipid perfectness of things wrought on a small scale. If idealizing
means the filing-away of jagged edges--and surely it does not--Mr. Champneys has left us to
do our own idealizing. The faults that marred Purcell's Life of Manning are here avoided, and
yet truth is no whit the sufferer in consequence.

In speaking of Patmore as a thinker and a poet, we do not mean to dissociate these two functions
in his case, but only to classify him (according to his own category) with those "masculine"
poets whose power lies in a beautiful utterance of the truth, rather than in a truthful utterance
of the beautiful.

We propose, however, to occupy ourselves with the matter rather than the mode of Patmore's
utterance; with that truth which he conceived himself to have apprehended in a newer and clearer
light than others before him; and this, because he does not stand alone, but is the representative
and exponent of a certain school of ascetic thought whose tendency is diametrically contrary
to that pseudo-mysticism which we have dealt with elsewhere, and have ascribed to a confusion
of neo-platonic and Christian principles. This counter-tendency misses the Catholic mean in
other respects and owes its faultiness, as we shall see, to some very analogous fallacies.
If in our chapter on "The True and the False Mysticism," it was needful to show that the principles
of Christian monasticism and contemplative life, far from in any way necessarily retarding,
rather favour and demand the highest natural development of heart and mind; it is no less needful
to assign to this thought its true limits, and to show that the noblest expansion of our natural
faculties does not conflict with or exclude the principles of monasticism. I think it is R.H.
Hutton who remarks that it is not "easy to give us a firm grasp of any great class of truths
without loosening our grasp on some other class of truths perhaps nobler and more vital;" and
undoubtedly Patmore and his school in emphasizing the fallacies of neo-platonic asceticism
are in danger of precipitating us into fallacies every whit as uncatholic. It is therefore
as professedly formulating the principles of a certain school that we are interested in the
doctrine of which Patmore constitutes himself the apostle.

  Lights are constantly breaking in upon me [he
  writes] and convincing me more and more that the
  singular luck has fallen to me of having to write, for
  the first time that any one even attempted to do so
  with any fulness, on simply the greatest and most
  exquisite subject that ever poet touched since the
  beginning of the world.

  The more I consider the subject of the marriage of
  the Blessed Virgin, the more clearly I see that it is the
  one absolutely lovely and perfect subject for poetry.
  Perfect humanity, verging upon, but never entering the
  breathless region of the Divinity, is the real subject of
  all true love-poetry; but in all love-poetry hitherto, an
  "ideal" and not a reality has been the subject, more
  or less.

Taking the "Angel of the House" as representing the earlier, and the "Odes" the later stage
of the development which this theme received under his hands, it seems as though he passes
from the idealization and apotheosis of married love to the conception of it as being in its
highest form, not merely the richest symbol, but even the most efficacious sacrament of the
mystical union between God and the soul. He is well aware--though not fully at first--that
these conceptions were familiar to St. Bernard and many a Catholic mystic; it was for the poetic
apprehension and expression of them that he claimed originality; or, at least, for their unification
and systematic development. "That his apprehensions were based generally--almost exclusively,
on the fundamental idea of nuptial love must," as Mr. Champneys says, "be admitted." This was
the governing category of his mind; the mould into which all dualities naturally fell; it was
to his philosophy what love and hate, light and dark, form and matter, motion and atoms, have
been to others.

  It was, at all events, the predominance of this conception
  which bound together his whole life's work,
  rendering coherent and individualizing all which he
  thought, wrote, or uttered, and those who study
  Patmore without this key are little likely to understand
  him.

And it is the persistent and not always sufficiently restrained use of this category that made
much of his writing just a trifle shocking to sensitive minds.

These latter will have "closed his works far too promptly to discover that far from gainsaying
the Catholic instinct which prefers virginity to marriage" (not a strictly accurate statement)
he makes virginity a condition of the idealized marriage-relation, and finds its realization
in her who was at once matron and virgin. Following the fragmentary hints to be found here
and there in patristic and mystical theology, he assumes that virgin-spousals and virgin-birth
were to have been the law in that Paradise from which man lapsed back into natural conditions
through sin; that in the case of the Blessed Virgin and St. Joseph the paradisaic law was but
resumed in this respect. Accordingly, he writes of Adam and Eve in "The Contract,"

            Thus the first Eve
  With much enamoured Adam did enact
  Their mutual free contract
  Of virgin spousals, blissful beyond flight
  Of modern thought, with great intention staunch,
  Though unobliged until that binding pact.

To their infidelity to this contract he ascribes the subsequent degradation of human love through
sensuality; and all the sin and selfishness thence deriving to our fallen race:

      Whom nothing succour can
  Until a heaven-caress'd and happier Eve
    Be joined with some glad Saint
  In like espousals, blessed upon Earth,
    And she her fruit forth bring;

  No numb chill-hearted shaken-witted thing,
    'Plaining his little span.
  But of proud virgin joy the appropriate birth,
    The Son of God and Man.

The rationalistic objection to this suppression of what seems to be of the essence or integrity
of matrimony is obvious enough, and yet finds many a retort even in the realm of nature, where
the passage to a higher grade of life so often means the stultifying of functions proper to
the lower. As to the pre-eminence of that state in which the spiritual excellencies of marriage
and virginity are combined, Catholic teaching is quite clear and decided; in this, as in other
points, Patmore's untaught intuitions, and instincts--his mens naturaliter catholica--had led
him, whither the esoteric teaching of the Church had led only the more appreciatively sympathetic
of her disciples, from time to time, as it were, up into that mountain of which St. Ambrose
says: "See, how He goes up with the Apostles and comes down to the crowds. For how could the
crowds see Christ save in a lowly spot? They do not follow Him to the heights, nor rise to
sublimities"--a notion altogether congenial to Patmore's aristocratic bias in religion as in
everything else. Undoubtedly it was this mystical aspect of Catholic doctrine that appealed
to his whole personality, offering as it did an authoritative approval, and suggesting an infinite
realization, of those dreams that were so sacred to him. As far as the logic of the affections
goes, it was for the sake of this that he held to all the rest; for indeed the deeper Catholic
truths are so internetted that he who seizes one, drags all the rest along with it under pain
of self-contradiction.

No one knew better than Patmore the infinite insufficiency of the highest created symbols to
equal the eternal realities which it is their whole purpose to set forth; he fully realized
that as the lowliest beginnings of created love seem to mock, rather than to foreshadow, the
higher forms of which they are but the failure and botched essay, so the very highest conceivable,
taken as more than a metaphor, were an irreverent parody of the Divine love for the human soul.
It is not the same relationship on an indefinitely extended scale, but only a somewhat similar
relationship, the limits of whose similarity are hidden in mystery. But when a man is so thoroughly
in love with his metaphor as Patmore was, he is tempted at times to press it in every detail,
and to forget that it is "but one acre in the infinite field of spiritual suggestion;" that,
less full and perfect metaphors of the same reality, may supply some of its defects and correct
some of its redundancies. We should do unwisely to think of the Kingdom of Heaven only as a
kingdom, and not also as a marriage-feast, a net, a treasure, a mustard-seed, a field, and
so forth, since each figure supplies some element lost in the others, and all together are
nearer to the truth than any one: and so, although the married love of Mary and Joseph is one
of the fullest revealed images of God's relation to the soul, we should narrow the range of
our spiritual vision, were we to neglect those supplementary glimpses at the mystery afforded
by other figures and shadowings.

And this leads us to the consideration of a difficulty connected with another point of Patmore's
doctrine of divine love. He held that the idealized marriage relationship was not merely the
symbol, but the most effectual sacrament and instrument of that love; "yet the world," he complains,
"goes on talking, writing, and preaching as if there were some essential contrariety between
the two," the disproof of which "was the inspiring idea at the heart of my long poem (the 'Angel')."
Now, although in asserting that the most absorbing and exclusive form of human affection is
not only compatible with, but even instrumental to the highest kind of sanctity and divine
love, Patmore claimed to be at one, at least in principle, with some of the deeper utterances
of the Saints and Fathers of the Christian Church; it cannot be denied that the assertion is
prima facie opposed to the common tradition of Catholic asceticism; and to the apparent raison
d'être of every sort of monastic institution.

It must be confessed that, in regard to the reconciliation of the claims of intense human affection
with those of intense sanctity, there have been among all religious teachers two distinct conceptions
struggling for birth, often in one and the same mind, either of which taken as adequate must
exclude the other. It would not be hard to quote the utterances of saints and ascetics for
either view; or to convict individual authorities of seeming self-contradiction in the matter.
The reason of this is apparently that neither view is or can be adequate; that one is weak
where the other is strong; that they are both imperfect analogies of a relationship that is
unique and sui generis--the relationship between God and the soul. Hence neither hits the centre
of truth, but glances aside, one at the right hand, the other at the left. Briefly, it is a
question of the precise sense in which God is "a jealous God" and demands to be loved alone.
The first and easier mode of conception is that which is implied in the commoner language of
saints and ascetics--language perhaps consciously symbolic and defective in its first usage,
but which has been inevitably literalised and hardened when taken upon the lips of the multitude.
God is necessarily spoken of and imagined in terms of the creature, and when the analogical
character of such expression slips from consciousness, as it does almost instantly, He is spoken
of, and therefore thought of, as the First of Creatures competing with the rest for the love
of man's heart. He is placed alongside of them in our imagination, not behind them or in them.
Hence comes the inference that whatever love they win from us in their own right, by reason
of their inherent goodness, is taken from Him. Even though He be loved better than all of them
put together, yet He is not loved perfectly till He be loved alone. Their function is to raise
and disappoint our desire time after time, till we be starved back to Him as to the sole-satisfying--everything
else having proved vanitas vanitatum. Then indeed we go back to them, not for their own sakes,
but for His; not attracted by our love of them, but impelled by our love of Him.

This mode of imagining the truth, so as to explain the divine jealousy implied in the precept
of loving God exclusively and supremely, is, for all its patent limitations, the most generally
serviceable. Treated as a strict equation of thought to fact, and pushed accordingly to its
utmost logical consequences, it becomes a source of danger; but in fact it is not and will
not be so treated by the majority of good Christians who serve God faithfully but without enthusiasm;
whose devotion is mainly rational and but slightly affective; who do not conceive themselves
called to the way of the saints, or to offer God that all-absorbing affection which would necessitate
the weakening or severing of natural ties. In the event, however, of such a call to perfect
love, the logical and practical outcome of this mode of imagining the relation of God to creatures
is a steady subtraction of the natural love bestowed upon friends and relations, that the energy
thus economized may be transferred to God. This concentration may indeed be justified on other
and independent grounds; but the implied supposition that, the highest sanctity is incompatible
with any pure and well-ordered natural affection, however intense, is certainly ill-sounding,
and hardly reconcilable with the divinest examples and precepts.

The limitations of this simpler and more practical mode of imagining the matter are to some
extent supplemented by that other mode for which Patmore found so much authority in St. Bernard,
St. Francis, St. Teresa, and many another, and which he perhaps too readily regarded as exhaustively
satisfactory.

In this conception, God is placed, not alongside of creatures, but behind them, as the light
which shines through a crystal and lends it whatever it has of lustre. In recognizing whatever
true brilliancy or beauty creatures possess as due to His inbiding presence, the love which
they excite in us passes on to Him, through them. As He is the primary Agent and Mover in all
our action and movement, the primary Lover in all our pure and well-ordered love; and we, but
instruments of His action, movement, and love; so, in whatever we love rightly and divinely
for its true merit and divinity, it is He who is ultimately loved. Thus in all pure and well-ordered
affection it is, ultimately, God who loves and God who is loved; it is God returning to Himself,
the One to the One. According to this imagery, God is viewed as the First Efficient and the
ultimate Final Cause in a circular chain of causes and effects of which He is at once the first
link and the last--a conception which, in so far as it brings God inside the system of nature
as part thereof, is, like the last, only analogously true, and may not be pressed too far in
its consequences.

In this view, to love God supremely and exclusively means practically, to love only the best
things in the best way, recognizing God both in the affection and in its object. God is not
loved apart from creatures, or beside them; but through them and in them. Hence if only the
affection be of the right kind as to mode and object, the more the better; nor can there be
any question of crowding other affections into a corner in order to make more room for the
love of God in our hearts. The love of Him is the "form," the principle of order and harmony;
our natural affections are the "matter," harmonized and set in order; it is the soul, they
are the body, of that one Divine Love whose adequate object is God in, and not apart from,
His creatures.

It would not perhaps be hard to reconcile this view with some utterances in the Gospel of seemingly
opposite import; or to find it often implied in the words and actions of Catholic Saints; but
to square it with the general ascetic traditions of the faithful at large is exceedingly difficult.
Patmore would no doubt have allowed the expediency of celibacy in the case of men and women
devoted to the direct ministry of good works, spiritual and corporal: a devotion incompatible
with domestic cares; he could and did allow the superiority of voluntary virginity and absolute
chastity over the contrary state of lawful use; but he could hardly have justified--hardly
not have condemned those who leave father, friend, or spouse, not merely externally in order
to be free for good works, but internally in order that their hearts may be free for the contemplation
and love of God viewed apart from creatures and not merely in them. He might perhaps say that,
as we cannot go to God through all creatures, but only through some (since we are not each
in contact with all), we must select according to our circumstances those which will give the
greatest expansion and elevation to our natural affections; and that for some, the home is
wisely sacrificed for the community or the church. Yet this hardly consists with the pre-eminence
he gives to married love as the nearest symbol and sacrament of divine.

Both these modes of imagining the truth, whatever their inconveniences, are helpful as imperfect
formulations of Catholic instinct; both mischievous, if viewed as adequate and close-fitting
explanations. Patmore was characteristically enthusiastic for his own aspect of the truth;
and characteristically impatient of the other. Thus, of à Kempis he says:

There is much that is quite unfit for, and untrue of, people who live in the ordinary relations
of life. I don't think I like the book quite so much as I did. There is a hot-house, egotistical
air about much of its piety. Other persons are, ordinarily, the appointed means of learning
the love of God; and to stifle human affections must be very often to render the love of God
impossible.

In other words, the further he pushed the one conception the further he diverged from à Kempis,
whose asceticism was built almost purely on the other.

Most probably a reconciliation of these two conceptions will be found in a clear recognition
of the two modes in which God is apprehended and consequently loved by the human mind and heart;
the one concrete and experimental, accessible to the simplest and least cultured, and of necessity
for all; the other, abstract in a sense--a knowledge through the ideas and representations
of the mind, demanding a certain degree of intelligence and studious contemplation, and therefore
not necessary, at least in any high degree, for all. The difference is like that between the
knowledge of salt as tasted in solution and the knowledge of it as seen apart in its crystallized
state; or between the knowledge and love of a musical composer as known in his compositions,
and as known in himself, from his compositions. The latter needs a not universal power of inference
which the most sympathetic musical expert may entirely lack.

Of these two approaches to Divine love and union, the former is certainly compatible with,
and conducive to, the unlimited fulness of every well-ordered natural affection; but the latter--a
life of more conscious, reflex, and actual attention to God--undoubtedly does require a certain
abstraction and concentration of our limited spiritual energies, and can only be trodden at
the cost of a certain inward seclusion of which outward seclusion is normally a condition.
Instinctively, Catholic tradition has regarded it as a vocation apart--as, like the life of
continence, a call to something more than human, and demanding a sacrifice or atrophy of functions
proper to another grade of spirituality. Even what is called a "life of thought" makes a similar
demand to a great extent; it involves a narrowing of other interests; a departure from the
conditions of ordinary practical life. The "contemplative life" is inclusively all this and
more; it is a sort of anticipation of the future life of vision. Still, though for a few it
may be the surest or the only approach to sanctity, yet there is no degree of Divine love that
may not be reached by the commoner and normal path; there have been saints outside the cloister
as well as inside. One could hardly offend the first principles of the Gospel more grievously
than by making intelligence, culture, and contemplative capacity conditions of a nearer approach
to Christ.

It seems to us then that Patmore failed to get at the root of the neglected truth after which
he was groping, and thereby fell into a one-sidedness just as real as that against which his
chief work was a revolt and protest.

As a convert, Patmore is most uninteresting to the controversialist. His mind was altogether
concrete, affirmative, and synthetic, with a profound distrust of abstract and analytical reasoning.
As we have said, Christianity and, later, Catholicism appealed profoundly to his intellectual
imagination in virtue of some of their deeper tenets, for whose sake he took over all the rest
per modum unius.

The idea [of the Incarnation] no sooner flashed upon me as a possible reality than it became,
what it has ever since remained, ... the only reality worth seriously caring for; a reality
so clearly seen and possessed that the most irrefragable logic of disproof has always affected
me as something trifling and irrelevant.

Again: "Christianity is not an 'historical religion,' but a revelation which is renewed in
every receiver of it." "My heart loves that of whose existence my intellect allows the probability,
and my will puts the seal to the blessed compact which produces faith"--an ingenious application
of his favourite category.

Of the efforts of Manning and de Vere to proselytize him, he says:

Their position seemed to me to be so logically perfect that I was long repelled by its perfection.
I felt, half unconsciously, that a living thing ought not to be so spick and span in its external
evidence for itself, and that what I wanted for conviction was not the sight of a faultless
intellectual superficies, but the touch and pressure of a moral solid.

Whatever some may think or have thought of his theology, none who knew him could have any doubt
as to the robust and uncompromising character of his faith. It was because he felt so sure
of his footing that he allowed himself a liberty of movement perplexing to those whose position
was one of more delicate balance. He had a ruthlessness in tossing aside what might be called
"non-essentials," that was dictated not so much by an under-estimate of their due importance,
as by an impatience with those who over-estimated them, confounding the vessel with its contained
treasure.

When he says: "I believe in Christianity as it will be ten thousand years hence," it would
be a grave misinterpretation to suppose that he implied any lack of belief in the Christianity
of to-day. It is but another assertion of his claim to be in sympathy with the esoteric rather
than the exoteric teaching of the present; to be on the mount with the few and not on the plain
with the many. For as the glacier formed on the mountain slips slowly down to the plain, so,
he held, the esoteric teaching of to-day will be the popular teaching of future ages. However
little we may relish this distinction between "aristocratic" and vulgar belief; however strongly
we may hold that best knowledge of God--that, namely, which is experimental and tactual rather
than intellectual or imaginative--is equally accessible to all; yet just so far as there is
question of the intellectual and imaginative forms in which the faith is apprehended, the distinction
does and must exist, not only in religion but in every department of belief, as long as there
are different levels of culture in the same body of believers. It is, after all, a much more
superficial difference than it sounds--a difference of language and symbolism for the same
realities. Where language fits close, as it does to things measurable by our senses, divergency
makes the difference between truth and error; but where it is question of the substitution
of one analogy or symbol for another, the more elegant is not necessarily the more truthful;
nor when we consider the infinite inadequacy of even the noblest conceivable finite symbolism
to bring God down to our level, need we pride ourselves much for being on a mountain whose
height is perceptible from the plain but imperceptible from the heavens.

Hence to say that the distinction between esoteric and exoteric teaching means that the Church
has two creeds, one for the simple, another for the educated, is a thoughtless criticism which
overlooks the necessarily symbolic nature of all language concerning the "eternities," and
confounds a different mode of expression with a difference of the facts and realities expressed.

Matthew Arnold, too, believed in the Catholicism of the future; but in how different a sense!
What he hoped for was, roughly speaking, the preservation of the ancient and beautiful husk
after the kernel had been withered up and discarded; what Patmore looked forward to was the
expansion of the kernel bursting one involucre after another, and ever clamouring for fairer
and more adequate covering. With one, the language of religion was all too wide; with the other,
all too narrow, for its real signification. Arnold belongs to the first, Patmore to the last
of those three stages of religious thought of which Mr. Champneys writes:

The first is represented by those whose creed is so simple as to afford little or no ground
for contention; the second by such as in their search for greater precision enlarge the domain
of dogma, but fail to pass beyond its mere technical aspect; the third consists of those who
rise from the technical to the spiritual, and without repudiating or disparaging dogma, use
it mainly as a guide and support to thought which transcends mere definition.

Dec. 1900.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: Coventry Patmore. By Basil Champneys. Geo. Bell and Sons, 1900.]

XV.

TWO ESTIMATES OF CATHOLIC LIFE.

Dealing as both do so largely with the inner life of English Catholic society, it is hardly
possible to avoid comparing and contrasting One Poor Scruple [1] with Helbeck of Bannisdale,--one
the work of a Catholic who knows the matter she is handling, almost experimentally; the other
the work of a gifted outsider whose singular talent, careful observation, and studious endeavour
to be fair-minded, fail to save her altogether from that unreality and à priori extravagance
which experience alone can correct. To the non-Catholic, Mrs. Humphrey Ward's book will appear
a marvel of insight and acute analysis; for it will fit in with, and explain his outside observation
of those Catholics with whom he has actually come in contact, far better than the preposterous
notions that were in vogue fifty years ago. It represents them not as monstrously wicked and
childishly idolatrous; but as narrow, extravagant, out-of-date, albeit, well-meaning folk--more
pitiable than dangerous.

Formerly when they lived secret and unknown, anything might safely be asserted about them;
nothing was too wild or improbable. In those days "Father Clement" was the issue of a superhuman
effort at charity and fairness; and the author almost seemed to think an apology was needed
for such temerarious liberalism. But when Catholics began to breathe a little more freely and
to creep out of their burrows somewhat less nervously; when, in fact, they were seen to be,
at least in outward semblance, much as other men; some regard had to be paid to statements
that could be checked by observation; and the Papist's disappointing ordinariness had to be
attributed to dissimulation or to be otherwise interpreted into accord with the preposterous
principles by which their lives were thought to be governed.

Mrs. Humphrey Ward represents the furthest advance of this reform. She at least has spared
no pains to acquaint herself with facts, to gather information, to verify statements. She is
never guilty of the grotesque blunders that other high-class novelists fall into about Catholic
beliefs, practices, and habits, simply because they are dealing with what is to their readers
a terra incognita, and can, therefore, afford to be loose and inaccurate. An artistic conscientiousness
which values truth and honesty in every detail, saves her from this too common snare. But it
does not and cannot save her in the work of selection, synthesis, and interpretation of instances,
which has to be guided, not by objective facts, but by subjective opinions and impressions.
History written in a purely positivist spirit, ad narrandum, and in no sense ad docendum, is
a chimerical notion by which Renan beguiled himself into thinking that his Vie de Jesus was
a bundle of facts and nothing more. And Mrs. Humphrey Ward is no less beguiled, if she is unaware
that in threading together, classifying and explaining the results of her conscientious observation
and inquiry, she is governed by an a priori conception of Catholicism hardly different from
that which inspired the author of "Father Clement." Hence, to us Catholics, though her evident
desire to be critical and impartial is gratifying, yet her failure is none the less conspicuous.
Dr. Johnson once observed, that what might be wonderful dancing for a dog would be a very poor
performance for a Christian; and so, to us, "Helbeck" as a presentment of Catholic life is
wonderful as coming from an outsider, and, perhaps, especially from Mrs. Humphrey Ward, but
in itself it is grotesque enough--not through any culpable infidelity to facts, but through
lack of the visual power, the guiding idea, whereby to read them aright.

In One Poor Scruple, Mrs. Wilfrid Ward brings to bear upon a somewhat similar task, an equal
fidelity of observation supplemented by a first-hand, far wider, and more intimate experience
of Catholics and their ways, and, above all, by that key which a share in their faith and beliefs
alone furnishes to the right understanding of their conduct. Here too, no doubt, a contrary
bias is to be suspected, nor is a purely, "positive" treatment of the subject conceivable or
desirable. The view of an insider is as partial as the view of an outsider, though less viciously
so; nor can we get at truth by the simple expedient of fitting the two together. The best witness
is the rare individual who to an inside and experimental knowledge, adds the faculty of going
outside and taking an objective and disinterested view. In truth this needs an amount of intellectual
self-denial seldom realized to any great degree; but we venture to say that Mrs. Wilfrid Ward
proves herself very worthy of confidence in this respect. There is certainly no artistic idealizing
of Catholics, such as we are accustomed to in books written for the edification of the faithful.
There is the same almost merciless realism which we find in "Helbeck" in dealing with certain
trivialities and narrownesses of piety--defects common to all whom circumstances confine to
a little world, but more incongruous and conspicuous as contrasted with the dignity of Catholic
ideals. Without conscious departure from truth, Mrs. Humphrey Ward is evidently influenced
in her selection and manipulation of facts by the impression of Catholicism she already possesses
and wants to illustrate and convey; but Mrs. Wilfrid Ward has, we think, risen above this weakness
very notably, and should accordingly merit greater attention.

It may well be that this judicial impartiality may meet with its usual reward of pleasing neither
side altogether. Some will complain that she brings no idealizing love to her subject, and
does little to bring out the greatness and glory of her religion. Yet this would be a hasty
and ill-judging criticism; for our faith is no less to be commended for the restraint it exercises
over the multitude of ordinary men and women, than for the effect it produces in souls of a
naturally heroic type. That it should bring a certain largeness into the smallest life, that
it should impart a strange stability to a naturally unstable and frivolous character; that
it should check the worldly-minded with a sense of the superior claims of the other world--all
this impresses us, if not with the sublimity or mystic beauty, at least with the solid reality
and penetrating power of the Catholic faith.

The most loyal and deep-seated love needs not to shut its eyes to all defects and limitations,
but can face them unchilled; and similarly there is often more faith and reverence and quiet
enthusiasm in this seemingly cold and critical attitude towards the cause or party we love,
than in the extravagant idealism that depends for its maintenance on an ignoring of things
as they are.

Nothing perhaps is more unintelligible to the Protestant critic of Catholicism, nothing more
needs to be brought out prominently, than the firm hold our religion can exercise over souls
that are naturally irreligious.

This very phrase "naturally irreligious" will fall with a shock on sensitive Protestant ears;
yet we use it advisedly. While all men are capable of faith and of substantial fidelity to
the law of God, it is undeniable that but few are by natural inclination "religious" in the
common acceptation of the term. As there is a poetic or mystical temperament, so also there
is a religious temperament--not quite so rare, but still something exceptional.

We find it so in all ages, ancient and modern; in all religions, Christian and non-Christian--nay,
even amid agnostics and unbelievers we often detect the now aimless, unused faculty. But most
men have, naturally, no ardent spiritual sympathy with holiness, or mysticism, or heroism;
their interests are elsewhere; and even where there are latent capacities of that kind, they
are not usually developed until life's severest lessons have been learnt. Thus the young, who
have just left the negative faith and innocence of the nursery behind them and stand inexperienced
on the threshold of life, are not normally religious; whereas we naturally expect those who
have passed through the ordeal, and been disillusioned, to begin to think about their souls,
since there is nothing else left to think about.

Now, the Catholic religion clearly recognizes these facts of human nature, and accommodates
herself to them. And being Son of God in truth, He became also Son of Man; and being God’ s only begotten
Son, He became also at the same time“ first-born among many brethren.” Wherefore neither was there
one Son of God before Abraham, another after Abraham: nor was there one that raised up Lazarus,
another that asked concerning him; but the same it was that said as man,“ Where does Lazarus
lie?” and as God raised him up; the same that as man and in the body spat, but divinely as Son of God
opened the eyes of the man blind from his birth; and while, as Peter says, in the flesh He suffered,
as God He opened the tomb and raised the dead. For which reasons, thus understanding all that
is said in the Gospel, they assured us that they held the same truth about the Word’ s incarnation
and becoming man. He issued in conjunction with these emperors an edict (Cod. Theod., XVI,
1, 2; cf. Cod. Just., I, 1, 1, v. infra,§ 72, b, e), requiring all subjects of the Empire to
hold the orthodox faith in the Trinity.

He then called a council of Eastern bishops to meet at Constantinople in 381 to settle the question
as to the succession to the see of that city and to confirm the creed of Nicæa as the faith of
the Eastern half of the Church. Gregory of Nazianzus was appointed bishop of Constantinople, but
was forced to resign, having formerly been bishop of Sasima, from which he had been translated in violation
of the Nicene canons. As soon as it was apparent that the bishops would have to accept the
Nicene faith the thirty-six Macedonians withdrew. Their opinion as to the Holy Spirit, that He was not
divine in the same sense that the Son was divine, was condemned, without express statement of
the point condemned, as was also the teaching of Apollinaris as to the nature of Christ. The
council was not intended to be an ecumenical or general council, and it was not regarded as
such even in the East until after the Council of Chalcedon, A. D. 451, and then probably on account
of the creed which was then falsely attributed to the Fathers of Constantinople. In the West the
council was not recognized as an ecumenical council until well into the sixth century. (See
Hefele,§ 100.) The council issued no creed and made no additions to the Nicene creed. It published
a tome, since lost, setting forth the faith in the Trinity. It enacted four canons, of which only
the first three are of general application.

Additional source material: Percival, Seven Ecumenical Councils (PNF); Theodoret, Hist. Ec., V, 6-9;
Socrates, Hist. Ec., V, 8; Basil, De Spiritu Sancto (PNF), Hefele,§§
95-100.

(a) Council of Constantinople, A. D. 381, Canons, Bruns, I, 20. Cf.
Kirch, nn. 583 ff.

The text of the canons of the council may be found in Hefele,§ 98, and also in Bruns. The Translations
and Reprints of the University of Pennsylvania give translations. For the address of the council to
Theodosius, see§ 72, b. The fourth canon is of a merely temporary
importance.

Canon 1. The faith of the three hundred and eighteen Fathers who were assembled at Nicæa in
Bithynia shall not be set aside but shall remain dominant. And every heresy shall be anathematized,
especially that of the Eunomians or Anomœans, the Arians or Eudoxians, the semi-Arians or
Pneumatomachians, the Sabellians, Marcellians, Photinians, and Apollinarians.

Canon 2. The bishops are not to go beyond their dioceses to churches lying outside of their
bounds, nor bring confusion on churches; but let the bishop of Alexandria, according to the
canons, alone administer the affairs of Egypt; and let the bishops of the East manage the East
alone, the privileges of the church in Antioch, which are mentioned in the canons of Nicæa,
being preserved; and let the bishops of the Asian diocese administer
the Asian affairs only; and the Pontic bishops only Pontic matters;
and the Thracian bishops only Thracian matters.

And let not the bishops go beyond their dioceses for ordination or any other ecclesiastical ministrations,
unless they be invited. And the aforesaid canon concerning dioceses being observed, it is evident
that the synod of each province will administer the affairs of that particular province as was
decreed at Nicæa. But the churches of God in heathen nations must
be governed according to the custom which has prevailed from the time
of the Fathers.

Canon 3. The bishop of Constantinople, however, shall
have the prerogative of honor after (123) the bishop of Rome; because
Constantinople is New Rome.

The Church to us, is not what it is to the Protestant--a sort of pasture land in which we are
at liberty to browse if we are piously disposed. It is not merely a convenient environment
for the development of the religious faculty. She stands to us in the relation of shepherd,
with a more than parental authority to feed and train our souls through infancy to maturity;
that is, from the time when we do not know or like what is good for us, to the time when we
begin to appreciate and spontaneously follow her directions. Just then as a child, however
naturally recalcitrant and ill-disposed, retains a certain fundamental goodness and root of
recovery so long as it acknowledges and obeys the authority of its father and mother; so the
ordinary unreligious Catholic, who has been brought up to believe in the divine authority of
the Church, finds therein all the protection that obedience offers to those who are incapable
of self-government. "In Madge's eyes the woman who married an innocent divorcee was no more
than his mistress." Had Madge been a pious Protestant she naturally might have examined the
question of divorce on its own merits; she might have weighed the pros and cons of the problem;
she might have consulted God in prayer, and have listened to this clergyman on one side; and
to that, on the other: but eventually she would have been thrown upon herself; she would have
had no one whose decision she was bound to obey. But wild and lawless as she is, yet being
a Catholic there is one voice on earth which she fears to disbelieve or disobey. Looked at
even from a human standpoint, the consensus of a world-wide, ancient, organized society like
the Roman Church cannot but exert a powerful pressure on the minds of its individual members.
It would need no ordinary rebellion of the will for a thoughtless girl to shake her mind so
free of that influence as to live happily in the state of revolt. But where in addition to
this the Church is viewed as speaking in the name of God, and as so representing Him on earth
that her ban or blessing is inseparable from His, it is obvious that such a belief in her claims
will give her a power for good over the unreligious majority analogous to that possessed by
a parent over an untrained child--a power, that is, of discipline and external motive which
serves to supplement or supply for the present defect of internal motive.

Thus it is that the Church reckons among her obedient children thousands of very imperfect
and non-religious people for whom Protestantism can find no place among the elect.

Again, the solid faith of men with so little intellectual or emotional interest in religion
as Squire Riversdale or Marmaduke Lemarchant is something very puzzling to the Protestant critic
who, for the reasons just insisted on, can have nothing corresponding to it in his own experience.
It is a psychological state of which his own religious system takes no account. Where there
is no intermediating Church, the soul is either in direct and mystical union with God or else
wholly estranged and indifferent. A man is either serious and religious-minded, or he is nothing.
Like an untutored child, if he is not naturally good, there is no one to make him so. But when
the Church is acknowledged as our tutor under God, as empowered by Him to lead us to Him; a
middle condition is found of those who are not naturally disposed to religion, and yet who
are submissive to that divine authority whose office it is to shape their souls to better sympathies.
Riversdale is a far truer type of the Catholic country squire of the old school than the somewhat
morbid and impossible Helbeck of Bannisdale. With her preconceived notions, Mrs. Humphrey Ward
could not imagine any alternative between 'religious' and 'irreligious' in the Puritan sense.
If Helbeck was to be a good Catholic at all he must of necessity be fanatically devoted to
the propagation of the faith and offer his fortune and energies to the service of an unscrupulous
clergy only too ready to play upon his credulous enthusiasm. His is represented as being naturally
a religious and mystical soul, but blighted and narrowed through the influence of Catholicism.
We are made to feel that the only thing the matter with him is his creed--"all those stifling
notions of sin, penance, absolution, direction, as they were conventionalized in Catholic practice
and chattered about by stupid and mindless people."

On the other hand, in Squire Riversdale and Marmaduke Lemarchant there is by nature nothing
but healthy humanity, no mystic or religious strain whatever; they are not semi-ecclesiastics
like Helbeck; and yet we feel that their prosaic lives are governed, restrained, and rectified
by a deep-rooted faith in the authority of the Catholic Church. "The qualities most obvious
are not those of the mystic, but of the manly out-of-door sportsman who may seem to be nothing
more than a bluff Englishman who rides to the hounds and does his ordinary duties. Yet one
of these red-coated cavaliers would, I have not the least doubt, if occasion called for it,
show himself capable of the very highest heroism. Men of action, I should say, and not of reflection--a
race of few words but of brave deeds."

It was just men of this unromantic type, men of solid but unostentatious faith, given wholly
to the business of this life save for one sovereign secret reserve, who in time of persecution
stood fast "ready any day to be martyred for the faith and to regard it as the performance
of a simple duty and nothing to boast of." And if there is in the type a certain narrowness
of sympathy and lack of intelligent interest which offends us, we may ask whether, with our
human limitations, narrowness is not to some extent the price we pay for strength; whether
where decision of judgment and energy of action is demanded, as in times of persecution, width
of view and multiplicity of sympathies may not be a source of weakness. Contrast, for example,
the character of Mark Fieldes with that of Marmaduke Lemarchant, and it will be clear that
the strength and straightness of the latter is closely associated with the absence of that
versatility of intellect and affection which make the former a more interesting but far less
lovable and estimable personality. To see all sides and issues of a question, is a speculative,
but not always a practical advantage; to have many diversified tastes and affections helps
to enlarge our sympathies, but not to concentrate our energies.

Of course great minds and strong hearts can afford to be comprehensive without loss of depth
and intensity; but our present interest is with ordinary mortals and average powers. A man
who has all his life unreflectingly adopted the traditional principle that death is preferable
to dishonour, that a lie is essentially dishonourable, will be far more likely to die for the
truth, than one who has philosophized much about honour and veracity, and whose resolution
is enfeebled by the consciousness of the weak and flimsy support which theory lends to these
healthy and universally received maxims. And similarly those who have received the faith by
tradition, who for years have assumed it in their daily conduct as a matter of course, in whom
therefore it has become an ingrained psychological habit, who hold it, in what might be condemned
as a narrow, unintellectual fashion, are just the very people who will fight and die for it,
when its more cultivated and reflective professors waver, temporize, and fall away. Taking
human nature as it is, who can doubt but that this is the way in which the majority are intended
to hold their religious, moral, philosophical, and political convictions; that reflex thought
is, must, and ought to be confined to a small minority whose function is slowly to shape and
correct that great body of public doctrine by which the beliefs of the multitude are ruled?
We do not mean to say that such prosaic "narrowness" as we speak of, is essential to strength;
but only that a habit of theoretical speculation and a continual cultivation of delicate sensibility
is a source of enervation which needs some compensating corrective. This corrective is found
in the exalted idealism which characterizes the great saints and reformers, such as Augustine,
or Francis, or Teresa, or Ignatius--souls at once mystical and energetically practical to the
highest degree. It is something of this temper which is parodied in Alan Helbeck. But the Church's
mission is not merely to those rare souls whose sympathy with her own mind and will is intelligent
and spontaneous; but at least as much to the multitudes who have to be guided more or less
blindly by obedience to tradition and authority, or else let wander as sheep having no shepherd.
These considerations explain why One Poor Scruple seems to us so far truer a presentment of
Catholic life than Helbeck of Bannisdale--the difference lying in the incommunicable advantage
which an insider possesses over an outsider in understanding the spirit and principles by which
the members of any social body are governed. Of all religions, Catholicism which represents
the accumulated results of two thousand years' worldwide experience of human nature applied
to the principles of the Gospel, is least likely to be comprehended by an outsider, however
observant and fair-minded.

To those for whom the lawfulness of re-marriage for an innocent divorcee is, like the rest
of their religious beliefs, a matter of opinion, the scruple of a character like Madge Riversdale
is unthinkable and incredible. Such women do not trouble their heads about theological points;
still less, make heroic sacrifices for their private and peculiar convictions. But those for
whom the Church is a definite concrete reality--almost a person--governing and teaching with
divine authority, will easily understand the firm grip she can and does exert on those who
have no other internal principle of restraint; who would shake themselves free if they dared.
Let those who despise the results of such a constraint be consistent and abolish all parental
and tutorial control; all educative government of whatsoever description; nay, the imperious
restraint of conscience itself, which is often obeyed but grudgingly.

While some features of this portrait of Catholic life are common to all its phases, others
are peculiar to the aspect it presents in England, where Catholics being a small and weak minority
are, so to say, self-conscious in their faith--continually aware that they are not as the rest
of men; disposed therefore to be apologetic or aggressive or defensive. Again, the circumstance
of their long exclusion from the social and intellectual life of their country is accountable
for other undesirable peculiarities which Mrs. Wilfrid Ward sees no reason to spare.

We have not, however, attempted anything like a literary estimate of this interesting, altogether
readable work, but have only endeavoured to draw attention to an important point, which, whether
intentionally or unintentionally, it illustrates very admirably.

May, 1899.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: One Poor Scruple. By Mrs. Wilfrid Ward. London: Longmans, 1899.]

[Footnote 2: We do not mean to imply that there is any close etymological relation between
these two uses of the term.]

XVI.

A LIFE OF DE LAMENNAIS.

The appearance of a work by the Hon. W. Gibson on The Abbé de Lamennais, and the Catholic Liberal
Movement in France, invites us to a new attempt to grapple with a problem which has so far
met with no satisfactory solution, and probably never will. Up to a certain point we seem to
follow more or less intelligently the working of the restless soul of De Lamennais; but at
the last and great crisis of his life we find all our calculations at fault; "we try to understand
him; we wish that penetrating into the inmost recesses of his wounded soul, we could force
it to yield up its secret, and once more sympathize with him, perhaps console him; but we cannot.
He is an enigma, as impenetrable as the rocks on his native shore."

From whatever point of view the story of his life is regarded, it presents itself as a tragedy.
The believing Catholic sees there the ruin of a vocation to such a work as only a few souls
in the history of the Church are called to accomplish--a ruin desperate and deplorable in proportion
to the force of the talents and energies diverted from the right path. The non-Catholic or
unbeliever cannot fail to be moved by contemplating the fruitless struggles of a mind so keen,
a heart so enthusiastic in the cause of light and liberty--struggles ending in failure, perplexity,
confusion, and misery. But while we allow a large element of mystery in his character which
will never be eliminated, yet as we return time after time to gaze upon the picture of his
life, as a whole, and in its details, the seemingly discordant items begin quietly to drop
into their places one after another, and to exhibit unnoticed connections; and the idea of
his distinctive personality begins to shape itself into a coherent unity.

It is not our purpose here to summarize Mr. Gibson's admirable work, or to give even an outline
of so well-known a history; but rather to attempt some brief criticism of the man himself,
and incidentally of his views.

Temperament and early education are among the principal determinants of character; and certainly
when we contrast Féli with his brother Jean, who presumably received the same home-training,
we see how largely he was the creature of temperament. Jean was by nature the "good boy," tractable
and docile; Féli, the unmanageable, the lawless, the violent. While Jean was dutifully learning
his lessons to order, Féli, the obstreperous, imprisoned in the library, was feeding his tender
mind with Diderot, Montaigne, Pascal, Voltaire, Rousseau, and similar diet, and at twelve exhibited
such infidel tendencies as made it prudent to defer his first Communion for some ten years.

From first to last, whether we consider his childish waywardness and outbreaks of violent passion,
which persevered in a less childish form through manhood; or the fits of intense depression
and melancholy, alternating with spells of high nerve-tension and feverish excitement; or the
restlessness and impatient energy which showed themselves always and everywhere, and at times
drove him like a wild man into the woods, "seeking rest and finding none;" or the prophetic,
not to say, the fanatical strain which breaks out in so much of his writing, especially in
the Paroles d'un Croyant,--in all alike there is evident that predominance of the imaginative
and emotional elements which, combined with intellectual gifts, constitute genius as commonly
understood. For such a character the training which would suffice for half a dozen good little
Jeans would be wholly inadequate. So much fire and feeling ill submits to the yoke of self-restraint
in matters moral or intellectual. The mind is apt to be fascinated by the brilliant pictures
of the imagination and to become a slave to the tyranny of a fixed idea; while the strength
of passionate desire paralyzes the power of free deliberation. It is precisely this self-restraint,
the fruit of a careful education given and responded to, that we miss in De Lammenais both
in his moral character and in his mind. Peace and tranquillity of soul are essential to successful
thinking, more especially in philosophy; and in proportion as a brilliant imagination is a
help, it is also a danger if let run riot. At times, wearied out with himself, he seems to
have felt the need of retreat and quiet; but he was almost as constitutionally incapable of
keeping still, as certain modern statesmen in their retirement from public life. We smile when
we hear him in the violent first fervour of his conversion, talking about becoming a Trappist,
and, later, a Jesuit. He knew himself better when he shrank so long and persistently from the
yoke of priesthood, and when, having yielded against his truer instincts to the indiscreet
zeal of pious friends, he experienced an agony of repugnance at his first Mass. With different
antecedents he might have profited by the yoke, but as things stood it could but gall him.

In spite of Mr. Gibson's contention to the contrary, it can hardly be maintained that De Lamennais
was well educated in the strict sense of the expression. The evidence he adduces points to
a marvellous diversity of interests, and even to close and careful reading. But on the whole
he was self-taught, and a self-taught man is never educated. Without intercourse with other
living minds, education is impossible. This is indeed hoisting De Lammenais with his own petard.
For, according to "Traditionalism," the mind is paralyzed by isolation, and can be duly developed
only in society. An overweening self-confidence and slight regard for the labours of other
thinkers usually characterizes self-taught genius. This it was that led him to cut all connection
with the philosophy of the past, and to attempt to build up, single-handed, a new system to
supplant that which had been the fruit of the collective mind-labour of centuries. "I shall
work out," he writes calmly to the Abbé Brute, "a new system for the defence of Christianity
against infidels and heretics, a very simple system, in which the proofs will be so rigorous
that unless one is prepared to give up the right of saying I am, it will be necessary to say
Credo to the very end." Only a man with a very slight and superficial acquaintance with the
endeavours of previous apologists, and the extreme difficulty of the problem, could speak with
such portentous self-confidence. And the result bears out this remark. For grand and imposing
as is the structure of the Essai sur l'Indifférence, it rests on fallacies so patent that none
but a man of no philosophical training could have failed to perceive them. Here it is that
the self-taught man comes to grief and often misses the mere truisms of traditional teaching.

Doubtless ecclesiastical philosophy and theology was then more than ever painfully fossilized,
and altogether lifeless and out of sympathy with the spirit of the age. It needed to be quickened,
adapted and applied to modern exigencies. The undue intrusion of metaphysics into the domain
of positive knowledge needed checking; the value of consensus communis as a criterion required
to be insisted on, defended, and exactly defined. With characteristic impetuosity, De Lamennais,
like Comte, must bundle metaphysics out of doors altogether as a merely provisional but illusory
synthesis, necessary for the human intellect in its adolescence, but to be discarded in its
maturity; and thereupon he proceeds to erect his system of Traditionalism mid-air, quite unconscious
that in clearing away metaphysics he has deprived the structure of its only possible foundation.
But this is the man all over. Because there is a truth in Traditionalism, therefore, it is
the whole and only truth; because metaphysics alone can do little, it is therefore unnecessary
and worthless. Had he spent but a fraction of the time and trouble he gave to the elaboration
of his own system, in a liberal and critical study of that which he desired to supersede, his
genius might have accomplished a work for the Church which is still halting badly on its way
to perfection. One feels something like anger in contemplating such hot-headed zeal standing
continually in its own light, and frustrating with perverse ingenuity the very end which it
was most desirous to realize. For no one can deny that from his first conversion to his unhappy
death De Lamennais was dominated by the highest and noblest and most unselfish motives; that
he was a man of absolute sincerity of purpose.

His earliest enthusiasm was for the defence and exaltation of the Catholic Faith, for the liberation
of the Church from the bonds of nationalism and Erastianism. Even those who repudiate altogether
the extreme Ultramontanism of De Maistre and De Lamennais must allow their conception to be
one of the boldest and grandest which has inspired the mind of man. He realized more vividly
than many that the cause of the Church and of society, of Catholicism and humanity, were one
and the same. It was the very intensity and depth of his convictions that made him so importunate
in pressing them on others, so intolerant of delay, so infuriated by opposition. For indeed
nothing is more common than to find a thousand selfishnesses co-existing and interfering with
a dominant unselfishness, lessening or totally destroying its fruitfulness for good. A man
who is unselfish enough to devote his fortune to charity will not necessarily be free from
faults which may more than undo the good he proposes.

The same hastiness of thought which moved him to a wholesale, indiscriminate condemnation of
metaphysics, led him to conclude that because hitherto no happy adjustment of the relations
between Church and State had been devised, there could be no remedy save in their total severance.
Doubtless such a severance would be better, if Gallicanism were the only alternative; or if
the Church's liberty and efficiency were to be seriously curtailed. A superficial glance might
fancy a fundamental discrepancy in this matter, as well as in the questions of toleration,
and of the freedom of the press, between the official teaching of Gregory XVI. and Pius IX.,
and that of Leo XIII. But a closer inspection shows no alteration of principle, and only a
recognition of altered circumstances, either necessitating a connivance at inevitable evils,
or totally changing the aspect of the question. But De Lamennais should have learnt from his
own teaching that liberty does not mean the independence of isolation, but the full enjoyment
of all the means necessary for perfect self-development; that it does not mean the weakness
of dissociation, but the strength of a perfectly organized association for mutual help and
protection. And this holds good, not for individuals alone, but for societies, and for Church
and State. Aiming at one common end, the perfection of humanity, they cannot but gain by association
and lose by dissociation. Each is weaker even, in its own sphere, apart from the other. It
is an unreal abstraction that splits man into two beings--a body and a soul; that draws a clean,
hard-and-fast line between his temporal and eternal welfare; that commits the former interest
to one society, the latter to another, absolutely distinct and unconnected. But all this holds
true only in the hypothesis of a nation of Christians or Theists.

When a large fraction of the community has ceased to believe in Christianity and the Church,
the demands of justice and reason are different. It may well be allowed that, to determine
the exact relation of the Catholic Church and Christian State, and the law of their organization
into one complex society, is a problem for whose perfect solution we must wait the further
development of the ideas of ecclesiastical and civil society. But to wait for growth of subjective
truth was just what De Lamennais could not do. He saw that past solutions of the problem had
been unsuccessful; that in most cases the Church was eventually drawn into bondage under the
State as its creature and instrument in the cause of tyranny and oppression; that it was insensibly
permeated with the local and national spirit, differentiated from Catholic Christendom, and
severed from the full influence of its head, the Vicar of Christ. The independence of the Church
he rightly judged to be the great safeguard of the people against the tyranny of their temporal
rulers. In the face of that world-wide spiritual society, whose voice was at once the voice
of humanity and the voice of God, he felt that "iniquity would stop its mouth," and injustice
be put to shame. Yet all this seemed to him impossible so long as the Church depended on the
State for temporalities, and because he could devise no form of association that would be guarantee
against all abuses, he therefore insisted on total, severance, not merely as expedient for
the present pressure, but as a divine and eternal principle.

When, therefore, it seemed to him that Gregory XVI. had condemned Ultramontanism, it was, to
De Lamennais, as though he had condemned the cause of the Church and of humanity, and thrown
the weight of his authority into that of Gallicanism. Here again we see how his mental intensity
and impatience reduced him to the dilemma which found solution in his apostasy. Holding as
he did to the Papal infallibility in a form far more extreme than that subsequently approved
by the Vatican Council, he was bound in consistency to accept the Pope's decision as infallible
in respect to its expediency and in all its detail. Love is dead.

Gipsy Song.

At last he was free. He had wrested his bride and the treasure trusted to his honour from the snares
so unexpectedly laid on his path; whatever troubles might remain stored against him in the dim distance
of time, he would not reck them now. The present and the immediate future were full of splendour
and triumph.

All those golden schemes worked out under yonder light of Scarthey-- God
bless it-- now receding in the gloom behind his swift running ship,
whether in the long watches of the night, or in the recent fevered
resolves of imminent danger, they had come to pass after all!

And she, the light of his life, was with him. She had trusted her happiness, her honour, herself,
to his love. The thought illumined his brain with glory as he rushed back to the silent muffled figure
that still stood awaiting his coming.

"At last!" he said, panting in the excess of his joy; "At last, Madeleine... I can hardly believe
it!

But selfish brute that I am, you must be crushed with fatigue. My brave darling, you would
make me forget your tender woman's frame, and you are wounded!"

Supporting her-- for the ship, reaching the open sea, had begun to roll more wildly-- he led her back
into the little room now lighted by the fitful rays of a swinging lamp. With head averted, she
suffered herself to be seated on a kind of sofa couch.

When he had closed the door, he seized her hand, on which ran streaks of half-dried blood, and
covered it with kisses.

"Ah, Madeleine! here in the sanctuary I had prepared for you, where I thought you would be so safe,
so guarded, tell me that you forgive me for having brought this injury to you. Wounded, torn,
bleeding.... I who would give all my blood, my life, if life were not so precious to me now that
you have come into it, to save you from the slightest pain! At least here you are secure,
here you can rest, but-- but there is no one to wait on you, Madeleine." He fell on his knees
beside her. "Madeleine, my wife, you must let me tend you." Then, as she shivered slightly, but
did not turn to him, he went on in tones of the most restrained tenderness mingled with humblest
pleading: "Had it not been for your accident, I had not ventured
even to cross the threshold of this room.

But your wound must be dressed; darling, darling, allow me, forgive me; the risk is too great."
Rising to his feet again he gently pulled at her cloak. Molly spoke
not a word, but untied it at the neck and let it fall away from her
fair young body; and keeping her hooded face still rigidly averted,
she surrendered her wounded arm.

He muttered words of distress at the sight of the broad blood stains;
stepped hurriedly to a little cupboard where such surgical stores as
might be required on board were hoarded, and having selected scissors,
lint, and bandages, came back and again knelt down by her side to
cut off, with eager, compassionate hands, the torn and maculated
sleeve.

The wound was but a surface laceration,
and a man would not have given a thought to it in the circumstances.
But to see this soft, white woman's skin, bruised black in parts,
torn with a horrid red gap in others; to see the beauty of this round
arm thus brutally marred, thus twitching with pain-- it was monstrous, hideously
unnatural in the lover's eyes! But his
aims were now almost entirely destructive and revolutionary. His enthusiasm was rather a hatred
of the things that were, than an ardent zeal for the things that ought to be; and the bitter
elements in his character become more and more accentuated as he finds himself gradually thrust
aside and forgotten--cast off by the Church, ignored by the revolution. Even his friends, with
one or two exceptions, dropped off one by one; some fleeing like rats from a sinking ship,
others perplexed at his obstinacy or offended by his violence; others removed by death or distance;
and we see him in his old age poor and lonely, and intensely unhappy.

When dangerously ill in 1827, he exclaimed, on being told that it was a fine night, "For my
peace, God grant that it may be my last." The prayer was not heard, for, as he felt on his
recovery, God had a great work for him to do. How that work was done we have just seen. Féli
de Lamennais, who would have been buried as a Christian in 1827, was buried as an infidel in 1854.

It is vain to contend that he was not a man of prayer. That he had a keen discernment in spiritual
things is evident from his Commentary on the Imitation and his other spiritual writings, as
well as from the testimony of his young disciples at La Chênaie, to whom he was not merely
a brilliant teacher, a most affectionate friend and father, but also a trusted guide in the
things of God. Yet this would be little had we not also assurance of his personal and private
devoutness.

All this would make his unfortunate ending a stumbling-block to those who cannot acquiesce
in the fact that in every soul tares and wheat in various proportions grow side by side, and
that which growth is to be victorious is not possible to predict with certainty; who deem it
impossible that one who ends ill could ever have lived well; or that one who loses his faith,
or any other virtue, could ever at any time have really possessed it. There is indeed some
kind of double personality in us all which is perhaps more observable in strongly-marked characters
like De Lamennais, where, so to say, the bifurcating lines are produced further. Proud men
have occasional moods of genuine humility; and habitual bitterness is allayed by intervals
of sweetness; and conversely, there are ugly streaks in the fairest marble.

And as to the fate of that restless soul, who shall dare to speak dogmatically? We cling gladly
to the story of the tear that stole down his face in death, and would fain see in it some confirmation
of the view according to which the soul receives in that crucial hour a final choice based
on the collective experience of its mortal life. We would hope that as there is a baptism of
blood or of charity, so there may perhaps be some uncovenanted absolution for one who so earnestly
loved mankind at large, and especially the poor and the oppressed; who in his old age and misery
was found by their sick-bed; who willed to be with them in his death and burial. And yet we
feel something of that agonizing uncertainty which forced from the aged Abbe Jean the bitter
cry, "Féli, Féli, my brother!"

Jan. 1897.

XVII.

LIPPO, THE MAN AND THE ARTIST.

"What pains me most," writes the late Sir Joseph Crowe in the Nineteenth Century for October,
1896, "is to think that the art of Fra Filippo, the loose fish, and seducer of holy women,
looks almost as pure, and is often quite as lovely as that of Fra Giovanni Angelico of Fiesole."
And indeed, if the fact be admitted, it cannot but be a shock to all those high-minded thinkers
who have committed themselves unreservedly to the view that personal sanctity and elevation
of character in the artist is an essential condition for the production of any great work of
art, and especially of religious art. As regards the fact, we need not concern ourselves very
long. If Rio and others, presumably biassed by the same theory, are inclined to see Lippi's
moral depravity betrayed in every stroke of his brush, yet the more general and truer verdict
accords him a place among the great masters of his age, albeit beneath Angelico and some others.
Beyond all doubt it must be allowed that even in point of spirituality and heavenliness of
expression, he stands high above numbers of artists of pure life and blameless reputation;
and this fact leaves us face to face with the problem already suggested as to the precise connection
between high morality and high art--if any.

Plainly a good man need not be a good artist. Must a good artist be a good man? I suppose from
a vague feeling in certain minds that it ought to be so, there rises a belief that it must
be so, and that it is so; and from this belief a disposition to see that it is so, and to read
facts accordingly. Prominent among the advocates of this view is Mr. Ruskin in his treatment
of the relation of morality to art. He holds "that the basis of art is moral; that art cannot
be merely pleasant or unpleasant, but must be lawful or unlawful, that every legitimate artistic
enjoyment is due to the perception of moral propriety, that every artistic excellence is a
moral virtue, every artistic fault is a moral vice; that noble art can spring only from noble
feeling, that the whole system of the beautiful is a system of moral emotions, moral selections,
and moral appreciation; and that the aim and end of art is the expression of man's obedience
to God's will, and of his recognition of God's goodness." [1]

But a man who can characterize a vulgar pattern as immoral, plainly uses the term "morality"
in some transcendental, non-natural sense, and therefore cannot be regarded as an exponent
of the precise theory referred to. Still, as this larger idea of morality includes the lesser
and more restricted, we may consider Mr. Ruskin and his disciples among those to whom the case
of Lippo Lippi and many another presents a distinct difficulty. "Many another," for the principle
ought to extend to every branch of fine art; and we should be prepared to maintain that there
never has been, or could have been, a truly great musician, or sculptor, or poet, who was not
also a truly good man. In a way the position is defensible enough; for one can, in every contrary
instance, patch up the artist's character or else pick holes in his work. Who is to settle
what is a truly great work or a truly good man. But a position may be quite defensible, yet
obviously untrue. Again, if by great art we mean that which is subordinated to some great and
good purpose, we are characterizing it by a goodness which is extrinsic to it, and is not the
goodness of art itself, as such. If the end of fine art is to teach, then its goodness must
be estimated by the matter and manner of its teaching, and a "moral pocket-handkerchief" must
take precedence of many a Turner. Yet it would even then remain questionable whether a good
and great moral teacher is necessarily a good man. In truth, a good man is one who obeys his
conscience, and whose conscience guides him right. If, in defect of the latter condition, we
allow that a man is good or well-meaning, it is because we suppose that his conscience is erroneous
inculpably, and that he is faithful to right order as far as he understands it. But one who
sees right and wills wrong is in no sense good, but altogether bad. Allowing that for the solution
of some delicate moral problems a certain height of tone and keenness of insight inseparable
from habitual conscientiousness is necessary, yet mere intellectual acumen, in the absence
of any notably biassing influence, suffices to give us as great a teacher as Aristotle, who,
if exonerated from graver charges, offers no example of astonishing elevation of heart at all
proportioned to the profundity of his genius. We do not deny that in the case of free assent
to beliefs fraught with grave practical consequences, the moral condition of the subject has
much to do with the judgments of the intellect. But first principles and their logical issues
belong to the domain of necessary truth; while in other matters a teacher may accept current
maxims and sentiments with which he has no personal sympathy, and weave from all these a whole
system of excellent and orthodox moral teaching. And if one may be a good moralist and a bad
man, why à fortiori may one not be a good artist and a bad man? If vice does not necessarily
dim the eye to ethical beauty, why should it blind it to aesthetic beauty? In order to get
at a solution we must fix somewhat more definitely the notion of fine art and its scope.

I think it is in a child's book called The Back of the North Wind, that a poet is somewhat
happily and simply defined as a person who is glad about something and wants to make other
people glad about it too. Yet mature reflection shows two flaws in this definition. First of
all, the theme of poetry, or any other fine art, need not always be gladsome, but can appeal
to some other strong emotion, provided it be high and noble. The tragedian is one who is thrilled
with awe and sorrow, and strives to excite a like thrill in others. Again, though the craving
for sympathy hardly ever fails to follow close on the experience of deep feeling; and though,
as we shall presently see, fine art is but an extension of language whose chief end is intercommunion
of ideas, yet this altruist end of fine art is not of its essence, but of its superabundance
and overflow. Expression for expression's sake is a necessity of man's spiritual nature, in
solitude no less than in society. To speak, to give utterance to the truth that he sees, and
to the strong emotions that stir within his heart, is that highest energizing in which man
finds his natural perfection and his rest. His soul is burdened and in labour until it has
brought forth and expressed to its complete satisfaction the word conceived within it. Nor
is it only within the mind that he so utters himself in secret self-communing; for he is not
a disembodied intelligence, but one clothed with body and senses and imagination. His medium
of expression is not merely the spiritual substance of the mind, but his whole complex being.
Nor has he uttered his "word" to his full satisfaction till it has passed from his intellect
into his imagination, and thence to his lips, his voice, his features, his gesture. And when
the mind is more vigorous and the passion for utterance more intense, he will not be at rest
while there is any other medium in which he can embody his conception, be it stone, or metal,
or line, or colour, or sound, or measure, or imagery, which under his skilled hand can be made
to shadow out his hidden thought and emotion. We cannot hold with Max Müller and others, who
make thought dependent and consequent on language.

For it is evident, on a moment's introspection, that thought makes language for itself to live
in, just as a snail makes its own shell or a soul makes its own body. Who has not felt the
anguish of not being able to find a word to hit off his thought exactly?--which surely means
that the thought was already there unclothed, awaiting its embodiment. As the soul disembodied
is not man, so thought not clothed in language is not perfect human thought. Its essence is
saved, but not its substantial, or at least its desirable, completeness. A man thinks more
fully, more humanly, who thinks not with his mind alone, but with his imagination, his voice,
his tongue, his pen, his pencil. If, therefore, solitary contemplative thought is a legitimate
end in itself; if it is that ludus, or play of the soul, which is the highest occupation of
man, a share in the same honour must be allowed to its accompanying embodiment; to the music
which delights no ear but the performer's; to poetry, to painting, to sculpture done for the
joy of doing, and without reference to the good of others communicating in that joy. And if
the Divine Artist, whose lavish hand fills everything with goodness; who pours out the treasures
of His love and wisdom in every corner of our universe; of whose greatness man knows not an
appreciable fraction; who "does all things well" for the very love of doing and of doing well;
who utters Himself for the sake of uttering, not only in His eternal, co-equal, all-expressive
Word, but also in the broken, stammering accents of a myriad finite words or manifestations--if
this Divine Artist teaches us anything, it is that man, singly or collectively, is divinest
when he finds rest and joy in utterance for its own sake, in "telling the glory of God and
showing forth His handiwork," or, as Catholic doctrine puts it, in praise; for praise is the
utterance of love, and love is joy in the truth.

As most of the useful arts perfect man's executive faculties, and thus are said to improve
upon, while in a certain sense they imitate nature; so the fine arts extend and exalt man's
faculty of expression, or self-utterance, regarded not precisely as useful and propter aliud;
but as pleasurable and propter se. Even the most uncultivated savage finds pleasure in some
discordant utterance of his subjective frame of mind; and it is really hard to find any tribe
so degraded as to show no rudiment of fine art, no sign of reflex pleasure in expression, and
of inventiveness in extending the resources nature has provided us with for that end.

The artist as such aims at self-expression for its own sake. It is a necessity of his nature,
an outpouring of pent-up feeling, as much as is the song of the lark. Of course we are speaking
of the true creative artist, and not of the laborious copyist. If he subordinates his work
as a means to some further end; if his aim is morality or immorality, truth or error, pleasure
or pain; if it is anything else than the embodiment or utterance of his own soul, so far he
is acting riot as an artist, but as a minister of morality, or truth, or pleasure, or their
contraries. If we keep this idea steadily in view, we can see how much truth, or how little,
is contained in the various theories of fine art which have been advanced from the earliest
times. We can see how truly art is a [Greek: mimaesis] an imitating of realities; not that
art-objects are, as Plato supposes, faint and defective representations, vicegerent species
of the external world, whose beauty is but the transfer and dim reflection of the beauty of
nature. Were it so, then the mirror, or the camera, were the best of all artists. As expression,
fine art is the imitation of the soul within; of outward realities as received into the mind
and heart of the artist, in their ideal and emotional setting. The artist gives word or expression
to what he sees; but what he sees is within him. His work is self-expression. We can from this
infer where to look for a solution of the controversy between idealism and realism. We can
also see how, owing to the essential disproportion between the material and sensible media
of expression which art uses, and the immaterial and spiritual realities it would body forth,
its utterances must always be symbolic, never literal. We can see how needlessly they embarrass
themselves who deny the name of fine art to any work whose theme is not beautiful, or which
is not morally didactic. Finally, we can see that if fine art be but an extension of language,
there can be no immediate connection between art as art, and general moral character; no more
reason for supposing that skilful and beautiful self-utterance is incompatible with immorality,
than that its absence is incompatible with sanctity.

Yet, as a matter of fact, and rightly, we judge of art not merely as art, or as expression;
but we look to that which is expressed, to the inner soul which is revealed to us, to the "matter"
as well as to the "form." And it maybe questioned whether our estimate of a work is not rather
determined in most cases by this non-artistic consideration. Obviously it is possible in our
estimate of a landscape, to be drawn away from the artistic to the real beauty; from its merits
as a "word," or expression, to the merits of the thing signified. And still more naturally
is our admiration drawn from the artist's self-utterance, to the self which he endeavours to
utter, and we are brought into sympathy with his thought and feeling. Much of the fascination
exercised over us by art, which precisely as art is rude and imperfect in many ways, is to
be ascribed to this source. Though here we must remember that the soul is often more truly
and artistically betrayed by the simple lispings of childhood than by the ornate and finished
eloquence of a rhetorician.

It is in regard to the matter expressed, rather than to the mode of expression, that we have
a right to look for a difference between such men as Lippo Lippi and Fra Angelico. According
to a man's inner tone and temperament and character, will be the impression produced upon him
by the objects of his contemplation. These will determine him largely in the choice of his
themes, and in the aspect under which he will treat them. Obviously in many cases there are
noble themes of art for whose appreciation no particular delicacy of moral or religious taste
is required. There is no reason why such a subject as the Laocoon should make a different impression
on a saint and on a profligate. It appeals to the tragic sense, which may be as highly developed
in one as in the other. But if the Annunciation be the theme, we can well understand how differently
it will impress a man of lively and cultured faith, a contemplative and mystic, with an appreciative
and effective love of reverence and purity; and another whose faith is a formula, whose life
is impure, frivolous, worldly. Why then is there not a more distinctly marked inferiority in
the religious art of Lippi to that of Angelico? Why does it look "almost as pure," and "often
quite as lovely"? Two very clear reasons offer themselves in reply. First of all, the art of
such a man as Angelico falls far more hopelessly short of his ideal. Most of the beauties which
such a soul would find in the contemplation of Mary, or of Gabriel, are spiritual, moral, non-æsthetic,
and can embody themselves in form and feature only most imperfectly. Given equal skill in expression,
equal command of words, one man can say all that he feels, and more, while another is tortured
with a sense of much more to be uttered, were it not unutterable. Perhaps it is in some hint
of this hidden wealth of unuttered meaning that skilled eyes find in Angelico what they can
never find in Lippi. A second reason might be found in the external influence exerted on the
artist by society, its requirements, fashions, and conventions. It is plain that Lippi, left
to himself, would never have chosen religious themes as such: it is equally plain, that having
chosen them, he would naturally try to emulate and eclipse what was most admired in the great
works of his predecessors and contemporaries. It would need little more than a familiar acquaintance
with the great models, together with the artist's discriminating observance, for a man of Lippi's
talent to catch those lines and shades of form and feature which hint at, rather than express,
the inward purity, the reverence, the gentleness, with which he himself was so little in sympathy.

No doubt, were two such men equally skilled in all the arts of expression, in language, in
verse, in song and music, in sculpture and painting, and acting, their general treatment of
religious themes would be more glaringly different; but within the comparatively narrow limits
of painting, we cannot reasonably expect more than we actually find.

The saint, as such, and the artist, as such, are occupied with different facets of the world;
the former with its moral, the latter with its æsthetic beauty. Even were the artist formally
to recognize that all the beauty in nature is but the created utterance of the Divine thought
and love, and that the real, though unknown, term of his abstraction is not the impersonal
symbol, but the person symbolized; yet it is not enough for sanctity or morality to be attracted
to God viewed simply as the archetype of æsthetic beauty. On the other hand, one may be drawn,
through the love of moral beauty in creatures, of justice, and mercy, and liberality, and truthfulness,
to the love of God as their archetype, and yet be perfectly obtuse to æsthetic beauty; and
thus again we see that high æstheticism is compatible with low morality, and conversely. Doubtless
when produced to infinity, all perfections are seen to converge and unite in God, but short
of this, they retain their distinctness and opposition. At the same time, it cannot for a moment
be denied that keenness of moral, and of æsthetic perception, act and react upon one another. The
first requisite is that a drawing shall be made in absolutely black ink on white paper, and
with clear, firm lines. With a little care it is just as easy to make a drawing in this way
as any other, and a satisfactory reproduction can be assured when it is kept in mind that nothing
but black will give the best results. In the early days of process work it was customary to
use India ink ground by the draughtsman, but excellent liquid inks, such, for instance, as that
made by Charles M. Higgins& Co., have taken the place of this, at a great saving of labor
and trouble. It is only necessary to take care that the ink is new and not too watery, and that
a sufficient amount is carried in the pen to insure a black line. Gray lines, although full
and continuous, are very apt to be ragged and broken in the reproduction.

Aside from this first condition there are few others which are really
mandatory.

A drawing made with vigorous, well-defined lines and rather open
in treatment will, as a rule, make the most satisfactory reproduction.

There is never difficulty in getting a good reproduction from such
work as that by which Mr. H. P. Kirby or Mr. D. A. Gregg is known.

For this purpose their style could hardly be improved upon. A drawing can be made with fine
and delicate lines and still reproduce well if there is not too much difference in size between
the original and the reproduction required. In general, the best results can be obtained by making
the plate about two thirds the size of the original.

Drawings in colored inks on tinted paper are difficult to reproduce satisfactorily, and of all
combinations a bluish ink upon a yellowish paper is to be avoided.

In general, it can be said that everything, even including line drawings in pen and ink, can
be reproduced by the half-tone processes, the quality of the plate depending upon the character
of the original. Water-colors, monochrome drawings in wash, pencil drawings and any combinations
of these, are reproducible, but with varying success. The same conditions which apply to line
work also hold good to a considerable extent in the present case.

A combination of vigorous black ink lines and lighter more delicate work put in with thinned
or gray ink will in all probability be very unsatisfactory, as the chances of holding the relation
between the two, or in fact of preserving the lighter lines at all,
without over-emphasizing the darker portions, will not be very great.

Delicate drawings can seldom be reproduced without giving a background tint all over, and this
usually destroys the life and snap of the original. This is especially true of drawings upon reddish
or yellowish paper, which on this account should be avoided if possible. It should be borne in
mind that yellow and red photograph dark; and blue, light. This often makes a great difference
of effect in the reproduction and sometimes makes it impossible to get satisfactory results at
all, especially in delicate drawings.

Pencil drawings made with light lines will not reproduce well, as there is too little contrast
in color between the lines and the paper; but sketches made with a soft pencil and strong contrasts
frequently give surprisingly good results.

When drawings are to be made, especially for reproduction, the question of expense is often of importance.
Plates made from pen drawings now cost about ten cents a square inch, while half-tone plates
made of metal for printing on an ordinary printing press with type
matter cost about twenty-five cents a square inch.

By using specially prepared process papers, which, if not sold by a local dealer in artists'materials,
can be had of Messrs. Wadsworth, Rowland& Co., or Frost& Adams, drawings can be made in pencil or
black crayon which can be reproduced by the cheaper process, and will give excellent results. Considering
the ease with which this work can be done and the satisfactory results obtained, it is surprising
that it has not been more generally adopted. The only drawback to working upon this paper is
the fact that no erasures or changes can be made without ruining the
surface of the paper.

In connection with what has already been considered in relation to the reproduction of drawings,
it may be well to refer to the making of plates from photographs. The selection of a good photograph
is of the first importance. It should be brilliant, and with all
the contrast of light and shade and as much detail as possible, for
something is always lost in both these respects in the process of
reproduction. A good plate can be made from a good photograph, but
cannot from a bad one. The process is the same as that referred to
above for the reproduction of wash drawings, etc., and the cost the
same, about twenty-five cents a square inch. Little as may
be the enthusiasm for such lore in France, it is far less in England, where the people have
for three centuries been out of all touch with the Catholic Church, and therefore with whatever
modicum of mediævalism she still preserves as part of her heritage from the past. Architecturally
we appreciate our dismantled cathedrals to some extent, but their symbolism is far less understood
than even the language and theology of the schools, while the study of it meets as much sympathy
as would the study of heraldry in a modern democracy. Yet we may say that the bulk of the book
consists of an inventory of every symbolic detail in architecture, in sculpture, in painting,
in glass-colouring, to be found at Chartres; to which is added a careful elaboration of the
symbolism of beasts, flowers, colours, perfumes, all very dreary reading for the uninitiated,
and to be criticized only by the expert.

Little scope as the plan of the book offers for any variety or display of character, being
mainly occupied with erudite monologue, put sometimes into the mouth of Durtal, sometimes into
that of the Abbé Plomb, yet the personalities of these two, as well as those of Géversin, Madame
Bavoil, and Madame Mesurat, stand out very vividly, and make us wish for that fuller acquaintance
with them which a little more movement and incident would have afforded.

But what will give most offence, and tend to alienate a certain amount of intelligent and valuable
sympathy, is the violence, and even the coarseness, with which the author, or at least his
hero, handles, not only the opinions, but the very persons of those from whom he differs; the
intemperance of his invective, the narrow intolerance and absolute self-confidence with which
he sits in judgment on men and things.

As a matter of fact, this is rather a defect of style and expression than of the inner sentiment.
It is part and parcel of the realist temper to blurt out the thought in all the clothing or
nakedness with which it first surges up into consciousness, before it has been submitted to
the censorship of reason; in a word, to do its thinking aloud, or on paper; to give utterance
not to the tempered and mature judgment--the last result of refinement and correction, but
to display the whole process and working by which it was reached. As it is part of M. Zola's
art to linger lovingly over each little horror of some slaughter-house scene, until the whole
lives for us again as in a cinematograph, so M. Huysman, engaged in the portrayal of a spiritual
conflict, spares us no link in the chain of causes by which the final result is produced; he
bares the brain, and exposes its workings with all the scientific calmness of the vivisector.

Whether we like or dislike this realism, we must allow for it in forming our judgment on these
volumes, nor must we treat as final and approved opinions what are often the mere spontaneous
suggestions and first thoughts of the mind, the oscillations through which it settles down
to rest. Over and over again we shall find that Durtal subsequently raises the very objection
to his own view that was on our lips at the first reading of it.

But even making such allowance, it none the less remains a matter of regret that one who, with
perhaps some justice, considers that in point of art-appreciation "the Catholic public is still
a hundred feet beneath the profane public," and chides them for "their incurable lack of artistic
sense," who speaks of "the frightful appetite for the hideous which disgraces the Church of
our day," who himself in many ways, in a hundred passages of sublime thought, of tender piety,
of lyrical poesy, has proved beyond all cavil his delicacy of sentiment, his exquisite niceness
in matters of taste, his reverence for what is chaste and beautiful, should at times be so
deplorably unfaithful to his better instincts, so forgetful of the close and inseparable alliance
between restraint and elegance. What can be weaker or uglier, more unbecoming an artist, more
becoming a fish-wife, than his description of Lochner's picture of the Virgin: "The neck of
a heifer, and flesh like cream or hasty-pudding, that quivers when it is touched;" or of the
picture of St. Ursula's companions, by the same hand: "Their squab noses poking out of bladders
of lard that did duty for their faces;" not to speak of the characterization of a "Sacred Heart"
too revolting to reproduce? Surely when, after having reviled M. Tissot almost personally,
he describes his works as painted with "muck, wine-sauce, and mud," it is difficult not to
answer with a tu quoque as far as this word-painting is concerned--difficult not to see here
some morbid and "frightful appetite for the hideous" struggling with the healthy appetite for
better things.

However lame and ridiculous an artist's utterance may be, yet there is a certain reverence
sometimes due to what he is endeavouring to say, and even to his desire to say it. We do not
think it very witty or tasteful or charitable to laugh at a man because he stammers; still
less do we overwhelm him with the coarsest abuse. One may well shudder at most presentments
of the Sacred Heart, but even apart from all consideration for the artist, a certain reverence
for the idea there travestied and unintentionally dishonoured, should forbid our insulting
what after all is so nearly related to that idea, and in the eyes of the untaught very closely
identified with it.

But an occasional trespass of this kind, however offensive, is not enough to detract materially
from the value of so much that is meritorious; nor again will that outspoken treatment of delicate
topics (less observable in The Cathedral than in En Route), which makes the book undesirable
for many classes of readers, prevent its due appreciation on the part of others--unless we
are going to put the Sacred Scriptures on the Index. In this vexed question, M. Huysman takes
what seems the more robust and healthy view, but he appears to be quite unaware how many difficulties
it involves; and consequently lashes out with his usual intemperance against the contrary tradition,
which is undeniably well represented. It is not as though the advocates of the "flight" policy
in regard to temptations against this particular virtue were ignorant of the general principle
which undoubtedly holds as regards all other temptations, and bids us turn and face the dog
that barks at our heels. This counsel is as old as the world. But from the earliest time a
special exception has been made to it in the one case of impurity by those who have professedly
spoken in the light of experience rather than of à priori inference. Both views are encompassed
with difficulty, nor does any compromise suggest itself.

What seems to us one of the most interesting points raised by the story of Durtal's spiritual
re-birth and development is the precise relation between the Catholic religion and fine art.

God has not chosen to save men by logic; so neither has He chosen to save them by fine art.
If the "election" of the Apostolic Church counted but few scribes or philosophers among its
members--and those few admitted almost on sufferance--we may also be sure that the followers
of the Galilean fishermen were not as a body distinguished by a fastidious criticism in matters
of fine art. In after ages, when the Church asserted herself and moulded a civilization more
or less in accordance with her own exigencies and ideals, it is notorious how she made philosophy
and art her own, and subjected them to her service; but whether in so doing she in any way
departed from the principles of Apostolic times is what interests us to understand.

There is certainty no more unpardonable fallacy than that of "Bible Christians," who assume
that the Church in the Apostolic age had reached its full expansion and expression, and therefore
in respect of polity, liturgy, doctrinal statement and discipline must be regarded as an immutable
type for all ages and countries; from which all departure is necessarily a corruption. They
take the flexible sapling and compare it with aged knotty oak, and shake their heads over the
lamentable unlikeness: "That this should be the natural outgrowth of that! O tempora, O mores!"

Like every organism, in its beginning, the Church was soft-bodied and formless in all these
respects; but she had within her the power of fashioning to herself a framework suited to her
needs, of assuming consistency and definite shape in due time. The old bottles would not serve
to hold the new wine, but this did not mean that new bottles were not to be sought. Because
the philosophy, the art, the polity of the age in which she was born were already enlisted
in the service of other ideas and inextricably associated with error in the minds of men, it
was needful for her at first to dissociate herself absolutely from the use of instruments otherwise
adaptable in many respects to her own ends, and to wait till she was strong enough to alter
them and use them without fear of scandal and misinterpretation.

The Church is many-tongued; but though she can deliver her message in any language, yet she
is not for that reason independent of language in general. There is no way to the human ear
and heart but through language of some kind or another. It is not her mission to teach languages,
but to use the languages she finds to hand for the expression of the truths, the facts, the
concrete realities to which her dogmas point. This does not deny that one language may not
be more flexible, more graphic than any other, more apt to express the facts of Heaven as well
as those of earth. It only denies that any one is absolutely and exclusively the best.

It is no very great violence to include rhetoric, music, painting, sculpture, architecture,
ritual, and every form of decorative art in the category of language and to bring them under
the same general laws, since even philosophy may to a large extent be treated in the same way.
Christ has not commissioned His Church to teach science or philosophy, nor has He given her
an infallible magisterium in matters of fine art. She uses what she finds in use and endeavours
with the imperfect implements, the limited colours, the coarse materials at her disposal to
make the picture of Christ and His truth stand out as faithful to reality as possible; and--to
press the illustration somewhat crudely--as what is rightly black, in a study in black and
white, may be quite wrongly black in polychrome; so what the Church approves according to one
convention, she may condemn according to another. May we not apply to her what Durtal says
of our Lady: "She seems to have come under the semblance of every race known to the middle
ages; black as an African, tawny as a Mongolian;"--"she unveils herself to the children of
the soil ... these beings with their rough-hewn feelings, their shapeless ideas, hardly able
to express themselves"? The more we study the visions and apparitions with which saints have
been favoured and the revelations which have been vouchsafed to them, the more evident is it
that they are spoken to in their own language, appealed to through their own imagery. Indeed,
were it not so, how could they understand? Our Lady is the all-beautiful for every nation,
but the type of human beauty is not the same for all. The Madonna of the Ethiopian might be
a rather terrifying apparition in France or Italy.

There is no art too rough or primitive, or even too vulgar, for the Church to disdain, if it
offers the only medium of conveying her truth to certain minds. Though custom has made it classical,
her liturgical language, whether Latin or Greek, when first assumed, was that of the mob--about
as elegant as we consider the dialects of the peasantry. She did not use plain-chaunt for any
of those reasons which antiquarians and ecclesiologists urge in its favour now-a-days, but
because it was the only music then in vogue. Even to-day the breeziest popular melodies in
the East are suggestive of the Oratio Jeremiæ. Her vestments (even Gothic vestments!) were
once simply the "Sunday best" of the fashion of those days. If to-day these things have a different
value and excellence, it is in obedience to the law by which what is "romantic" in one age
becomes "classical" in the next, or what is at first useful and commonplace becomes at last
ceremonial and symbolic; and by which the common tongue of the vulgar comes by mere process
of time to be archaic and stately. To "create" ancient custom and ritual on a sudden, or to
resuscitate abruptly that which has lapsed into oblivion, is, to say the least, a very Western
idea, akin to the pedantry of trying to restore Chaucer's English to common use. Nascitur non
fit, is the law in all such matters.

While we assert the Church's independence of any one in particular of these means of self-expression,
her indifference to style and mode of speech so long as substantial fidelity is secured, we
must not deny that some of them are, of their own nature, more apt to her purpose than others
and allow a fuller revelation of her sense; and that in proportion as her influence is strong
in the world she tends to modify human thought and language, to leaven philosophy and fine
art, so as to form by a process of selection and refusal, and in some measure even to create,
an ever richer and more flexible medium of utterance.

In this sense we can with some caution speak of "Catholic art" in music, architecture, and
painting, so far, that is, as we can determine the extent and nature of the Church's action,
and therefore the tendency of her influence in the way of stimulus and restraint with regard
to subject and treatment. We do not unjustly discern an author's style as a personal element
distinct from the language and phraseology of which no item is his own. The manner in which
he uses that language, his selections and refusals make, in union with the borrowed elements,
a tongue that may be called his, in an exclusive sense. The Church, too, has her style, which,
though difficult to discern amid her use of a Pentecostal variety of languages, is no doubt
always the same--at least in tendency.

Salvation-Army worship is certainly not of the Church's style, but I do not think, were there
no absolute irreverence and scandal to be feared, that she would hesitate to use such a language,
were it the only one understood by such a people. St. Francis Xavier's "catechisms" were often
hardly less uncouth. Still, her whole tendency would be towards restraint, order, and exterior
reverence. Again, the stoical coldness and formalism of a liturgical worship, centered round
no soul-stirring mystery of Divine love where there can be feeling so strong as to need the
restraint of liturgy and ritual, has still less of the Church's style about it. For she is
human, not merely in her reason and self-restraint, but in the fulness of her passion and enthusiasm;
and restraint is only beautiful and needful where there is something to restrain.

We are now in a position to consider the surface objection that will present itself to many
a reader concerning Durtal's conversion. "He has been converted," it will be said, "by a fallacy.
He has identified the Catholic religion with the cause of plain-chaunt and Gothic architecture,
and of all that is, or that he considers to be, best in art. He has laid hold not of Catholicism,
but of its merest accessories, which it might shake off any day, and him along with them. Indeed,
he scarcely makes any pretence at being in sympathy with the Catholicism of to-day, which he
regards as almost entirely philistine and degenerate, if we except La Trappe and Solesmes and
a few other corners where the old observances linger on. 'It was so ugly, so painfully adorned
with images, that only by shutting his eyes could Durtal endure to remain in Notre Dame de
la Brèche.' Yes, but what sort of convert is this who is so insensible to substantials, so
morbidly sensitive about mere accidentals? We come to the Church for the true faith and the
sacraments, not for 'sensations.' In fine, Durtal has not observed the route prescribed by
the apologetics for reaching the door of the sheep-fold, but has climbed over in his own way,
like a thief and a robber; he has not (as a recent critic says of him) tombé entre les bras
maternals de l'Eglise selon toutes les régles."

Without for a moment denying one of the legitimate claims of scientific apologetic, we may
at once dismiss the idea that it pretends to represent a process through which the mind of
the convert to Christianity either does or ought necessarily to pass. Its sole purport is to
show that if it is not always possible to synthetize Christianity with the current philosophy,
science, and history of the day, at least no want of harmony can be positively demonstrated.
As secular beliefs and opinions are continually shifting, so too apologetic needs continual
adjustment: and as that of a century back is useless to us now, so will ours be in many ways
inadequate a century hence. It is fitting for the Church at large that she should in each age
and country have a suitable apologetic, taking cognizance of the latest developments of profane
knowledge. It is needful for her public honour in the eyes of the world that she should not
seem to be in contradiction with truth, but that either the apparent truth should be proved
questionable, or else that her own teaching should be shown to be compatible with it. But in
no sense is such apologetic always a necessity for the individual, still less a safe or adequate
basis for a solid conversion, which in that case would be shaken by every new difficulty unthought
of before.

Our subjective faith in the Church must be like the faith of the disciples of Christ, an entirely
personal relation; an act of implicit trust based on no lean argument or chain of reasoning,
but on the irresistible spell, the overmastering impression created upon us by a character
manifested in life, action, speech, even in manner; as impossible to state in its entirety
and as impossible to doubt as are our reasons for loving or loathing, for trusting or fearing.

No doubt we hear of men of intellect and learning "reading" or "reasoning" themselves into
the Church; but others as able have read and reasoned along the same line, and yet have not
come; for in truth, reason at the most can set free a force of attraction created by motives
other than reason.

What this attraction is in each case is impossible to specify accurately--"Ask me and I know
not," one might say, "do not ask me and I know." Each soul is hooked with its own bait, called
by its own name, drawn in its own way; and as the attractiveness of Christ is virtually infinite
in its multiformity, so is that of His Church, nor is there a more unpardonable narrowness
than that of insisting that others shall be drawn in the same way as we ourselves, or not at all.

Let it also be noticed that a very prolonged and minute intimacy is not always necessary in
order that we should feel the spell of personality. Much depends on our own gifts of sympathy,
insight and apprehension, on the simplicity and strength of the personality in question, on
the nature of the incidents by which it is disclosed to us. We know one man in a moment, another
only after years of intimacy, while others in regard to the same individuals might experience
the converse. We must not then suppose that because in one case the impression is the result
of slowly-accumulated observations, and in another the work of an instant, it is less trustworthy
in the latter instance than in the former. It may be, or it may not be. St. Augustine needed
years to feel the spell that one word, nay, one glance from Christ cast upon St. Peter. Nor
again is it always in some striking and notable crisis that a character reveals itself abruptly,
but often in the merest nuance--a manner, an intonation, something quite unintentional, unpremeditated.
We know well, if we know ourselves at all, how irresistible is the impression created on us
at times by such trifles, and yet how more than reasonable it often is.

Who shall say, then, that to an eye and heart attuned to quick sympathy, any indication is
too small to betray the inward spirit and character of the Catholic Church, or to magnetize
a soul and render it restless, until it obeys her attraction and rests in union with her?

To a sensitively artistic temperament such as Durtal's, the indications of the Church's "style,"
revealed in her influence upon art, in her creations, in her selections and refusals, would
be eloquent of her whole character and ethos; it would be to him what the very tone of Christ's
voice was to the Baptist, or what His glance was to Peter, or what His silence was to Pilate.
We have known too many instances of deep-seated and entire conviction, based on seemingly as
little or less, to wish for one moment to indulge in any foolish rationalizing or to question
the possibility or probability of God's drawing souls to Himself by such methods.

We must, however, remember that it is not merely by the Church's mediæval art that Durtal is
attracted, but still more by that mysticism which created it, and by which it was served and
fostered in return. Mysticism must necessarily excite the sympathy of one who is in devout
pursuit of the highest and most spiritual forms of æsthetic beauty. Whatever be the long-sought
and never-to-be-forgotten definition of the Beautiful, of this much at least a mere process
of induction will assure us, that men count things beautiful in the measure that they are released
from the grossness, formlessness, and heaviness of matter, and by their delicacy, shapeliness,
and unearthliness, betray the influence of that principle which is everywhere in conflict with
matter and is called spirit. Man at his best is most at home, where at his worst he is least
at home, namely, in the world of those super-realities which are touched and felt by the soul,
but refuse to be pictured or spoken in the language of the five senses. A hard, "common-sense,"
labour-and-wages religion, such as is consonant with the utilitarianism of a commercial civilization,
could never appeal to a temperament like Durtal's.

Doubtless Catholic Christianity admits of being apprehended under the narrower and grosser
aspect, which however inadequate and unworthy, is not absolutely false. The Jews were suffered
to believe not merely that God rewards the just and punishes the wicked--which is eternally
true--but that He does so in this life, which is true only with qualification; and that He
rewards them with temporal prosperity and adversity--which is hardly true at all. Catholic
truth, in itself the same, can only be received according to the recipient's capacity and sensitiveness.
What one age or country is alive to, another may be dead to; nor can we pretend that here all
is progress and no regress, unless we are prepared to say that in no respect have we anything
to learn from the past. The Ignatian meditation on the "Kingdom of Christ" evoked heroic response
in an age impregnated with the sentiments of chivalry, but to-day it needs to be adapted to
a great extent, and some have vainly hoped to gather grapes from a thistle by substituting
a parable drawn from some soul-stirring commercial enterprise--a colossal speculation in cheese.

Whatever signs there may be of a reaction, yet the whole temper and spirit of our age is unfavourable
to that mysticism which is the very choicest flower of the Catholic religion. The blame is
not with the seed, but with the soil. Even where least of all we should look for such indifference,
among those who have built up the sepulchres and shrines of the great masters of mysticism,
we sometimes observe a profound distrust for what is esteemed an unpractical, unhealthy kind
of piety, while every preference is given to what is definite and tangible in the way of little
methods and industries, multitudinous practices, lucrative prayers, in a word, to what a critic
already quoted describes as les petitesses des cerveaux étroits et les anguleuses routines. [3]

It is one of the narrownesses of Durtal himself to ascribe all this to the wilful perversity
of a person or persons unknown, and not to see in it the inevitable result of the vulgarizing
tendency of modern life upon the masses. Things being as they are, surely it is better that
the Church should do the little she can than do nothing at all. The "meditative mind" is incompatible
with the rush and worry of a busy life, especially where educational methods substitute information
for reflection, and so kill the habit, and eventually the faculty, of thought in so many cases.
But if the higher prayer is impossible, the lower is possible and profitable. Again, if the
liturgical sense has in a great measure become extinct among the faithful owing to the unavoidable
disuse of the public celebration of the Church's worship, it is well that they should be allowed
devotions accommodated to their limited capacity. As the Church would never dream of expecting
a keen sympathy with her higher dogmas, her mystical piety, her artistic symbolism, her transcendent
liturgy, on the part of a newly-converted tribe of savages, so neither is she impatient with
the civilized Philistine, but is willing to speak to him in a language all his own, hoping
indeed to tune his tongue one day to something less uncouth. None can sympathize more cordially
than the writer does with Durtal in his horror of unauthorized devotions, of insufferable vernacular
litanies, of nerveless and sickly hymns, of interminable "acts of consecration" void of a single
definite idea, more especially when these things are brought into the very sanctuary itself,
with stole and cope and every apparent endeavour to fix the responsibility on the Universal
Church. But if the Church is willing to go in rags to save those who are in rags, she is only
using her invariable economy. We know well the sort of robe that befits her dignity, and no
doubt it is this contrast that makes the trial of her present humiliation more difficult for
us to bear.

We do not for a moment allow that the difference between bad taste and good is merely relative,
or that a language or art which is externally vulgar can ever be the adequate and appropriate
expression of the Catholic religion, whose tendency when unimpeded is ever to refine and purify.
But it is perhaps another narrowness to suppose that a reform can only be effected by a return
to the past, to mediæval symbolism and music and architecture. No effort of the kind has ever
met with more than seeming success. What is consciously imitated from the past is not the same
as that natural growth which it imitates, and which was as congenial to those days as it is
uncongenial to ours. It is all the difference between the Mass ceremonial in a Ritualist church
and in a Catholic church--the historical sense is violated in one case and satisfied in the other.

What is once really dead can never revive in the same form--at best we get a cast from the
dead face. No doubt the old music and the old symbolism always will have a beauty of antiquity
that can never belong to the new; but it was not this beauty--the beauty of death, of autumn
leaves, that made them once popular, but the beauty of fresh green life and flexibility. The
effort to make antiquity popular is almost a contradiction in terms. What we may hope for at
most is an improvement in the æsthetic tastes of the Catholic public which comes from freer
and healthier surroundings, from saner ideas and wider opportunities of education and liberal
culture. When they begin to speak a richer language, the Church will take that language and
find in it a fuller expression of her mind than she can in the present patois; she will be
able again to say to them in other words, as yet unknown, what she said to the middle ages
in Gregorian chaunt and Gothic cathedral. She, who in virtue of her Pentecostal gift of tongues,
speaks in sundry times and divers manners, may in due season find words as eloquent of her
heart and mind as those which she spoke to Durtal in the aisles of Chartres and in the cadences
of Solesmes.

July, 1898.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: Introduction to Sordello.]

[Footnote 2: The Cathedral. By M.T.K. Huysman. Translated by Clare Bell.]

[Footnote 3: R. P. Pacher, S.J., De Dante à Verlaine.]

XIX.

TRACTS FOR THE MILLION.

The paradoxes of one generation are the common-places of the next; what the savants of to-day
whisper in the ear, the Hyde Park orators of to-morrow will bawl from their platforms. Moreover,
it is just when its limits begin to be felt by the critical, when its pretended all-sufficingness
can no longer be maintained, that a theory or hypothesis begins to be popular with the uncritical
and to work its irrevocable ill-effects on the general mind. In this, as in many other matters,
the lower orders adopt the abandoned fashions of their betters, though with less of the well-bred
taste which sometimes in the latter makes even absurdity graceful. In this way it has come
to pass that at the very moment in which a reaction against the irreligious or anti-religious
philosophy of a couple of generations ago is making itself felt in the study, the spreading
pestilence of negation and unbelief has gained and continues to gain possession of the street.
Some fifty years ago religion and even Christianity, seemed to the sanguine eyes of Catholics
so firmly rooted in England that the recovery of the country to their faith depended almost
entirely on the settlement of the Anglo-Roman controversy; to which controversy they accordingly
devoted, and, in virtue of the still unexhausted impetus of that effort, do still devote their
energies, almost exclusively. But together with a dawning consciousness that times and conditions
have considerably changed, there is growing up in certain quarters a feeling that we too shall
have to make some modifications in order to adapt ourselves to the altered circumstances. It
is becoming increasingly evident that even could the said Anglo-Roman controversy be settled
by some argument so irresistibly evident as to leave no locus standi to the opponents of the
Petrine claims, yet the number of those Anglicans who admit the historical, critical, philosophical,
and theological assumptions upon which the controversy is based and which are presumed as common
ground, is so small and dwindling that, were they all gained to the Church, we should be still
a "feeble folk" in the face of that tidal wave of unbelief whose gathering force bids fair
to sweep everything before it. Also the lingering impression left from "Tractarian" days as
to the intellectual pre-eminence of the Catholicizing party in the Anglican Church, which pre-eminence
might make amends for their numerical insignificance, is gradually giving way to the recognition
of the sobering fact that at present that party in no exclusive sense represents the cultivated
intellect of the country. It is no disrespect to that party to say that while scholarship and
intelligence are therein well represented by scattered individuals, yet it is cumbered, like
most religious movements after they have streamed some distance from their source, with a majority
of those whose adhesion has little or no pretence to an intellectual basis; and whose occasional
accession to the Catholic Church is almost entirely their own gain.

To give the last decisive push to those who are already toppling over the border-line that
divides England from Rome, to reap and gather-in the harvest already ripe for the sickle, is
a useful, a necessary, and a charitable work; one that calls for a certain kind of patient
skill not to be underestimated; but there is a wider and perhaps more fruitful field whose
soil is as yet scarcely broken. It may even be asserted with only seeming paradox that the
best religious intelligence of the country is to be found in the camp of negation rather than
in that of affirmation; among Broad Churchmen, Nonconformists, Unitarians, and Positivists,
rather than among those who seek rest in the unstable position of a modified Catholicism. The
very instability and difficulty of that position elicits much ingenuity from its theological
defenders, though it also divides their counsels not a little; nor do we quarrel with them
for affirming instead of denying, but for not affirming enough. But this attempt at compromise,
this midway abortion of the natural growth of an idea, even were it justifiable as sometimes
happens when legitimate issues are obscured through failure of evidence, repels the great multitude
of religious thinkers who are not otherwise sufficiently drawn towards Catholicism to care
to examine these claims. To say that there is no logical alternative between Rome and Agnosticism
is a sufficiently shallow though popular sophism. At most it means that from certain given
premisses one or other of those conclusions must follow syllogistically--a statement that would
be more interesting were the said premisses indisputable and admitted by all the world. Still
it may be allowed that a criticism of these premisses, which is a third alternative, opens
up to religious thought a number of roads, all of which lead away from, rather than towards
the extreme Anglican position, and hence that the more searching religious intelligence of
the country is as adverse to that position--and for the same reasons--as it is to our own.
And by the "religious intelligence" I mean all that intelligence that is interested in the
religious problem; be that interest hostile or friendly; be it, in its issue, negative or constructive.
For it must not be forgotten that the enemies of a truth are as interested in it as its friends;
or that the friendliest interest, the strongest "wish to believe," may at times issue in reluctant
negation. So far then as the great mass of religious intelligence in this country is not "Anglo-Catholic"
in its sympathies; and so far as it is chiefly on the "Anglo-Catholic" section that we make
any perceptible impression, the conversion of England, for what depends on our own efforts,
does not seem to be as imminent a contingency as it would appear to be in the eyes of those
foreign critics for whom Lord Halifax is the type of every English Churchman and the English
Church co-extensive with the nation--save for a small irreclaimable residue of Liberals and
Freemasons.

Those who, influenced by such considerations, would have us extend our efforts from the narrowing
circle of Anglo-Catholicism to the ever-widening circle of doubt and negation, are not always
clear about the practically important distinction to be drawn between the active leaders of
doubt, and those who are passively led; the more or less independent few, and the more or less
dependent many; between the man of the study and the man of the street--a distinction analogous
to that between the Ecclesia docens and Ecclesia discens, and which permeates every well-established
school of belief, whether historical, ethical, political, or religious.

Dealing first with the latter, that is, with those who are led; we are becoming more explicitly
conscious of the fact that in all departments of knowledge and opinion the beliefs of the many
are not determined by reasoning from premisses, but by the authority of reputed specialists
in the particular matter, or else by the force of the general consent of those with whom they
dwell. There may be other non-rational causes of belief, but these are the principal and more
universal. And when we say they are non-rational causes, we do not mean that they are non-reasonable
or unreasonable. They provide such a generally trustworthy, though occasionally fallible, method
of getting at truth, as is sufficient and possible for the practical needs of life--social,
moral, and religious. There is an inborn instinct to think as the crowd does and to be swayed
by the confident voice of authority. If at times it fail of its end, as do other instincts,
yet it is so trustworthy in the main that to resist it in ordinary conditions is always imprudent.
That our eyes sometimes deceive us would not justify us in always distrusting their evidence. Mr.
W. S. Hebbard will, on September 1, occupy new offices in the Grant Building, San Diego, Cal.,
which he is just completing for U. S. Grant, Jr., Esq.

Among the recent additions to the working force of Mr. Aiken, Supervising Architect of the
Treasury, are Mr. F. B. Wheaton, formerly with Messrs. Longfellow, Alden,& Harlow, and Mr. Rice,
formerly with Wheelwright& Haven.

Mr. Geo. H. Ingraham, who has recently opened an office at 6 Beacon Street, Boston, is now absent
on a short European trip.

Mr. George E. Barton, for several years with Cram, Wentworth,& Goodhue, of Boston, has just started
for a tour of England and France, with the special purpose of studying the domestic and church
architecture of the smaller cities and towns.

Mr. C. H. Alden, who has lately returned from six months'travel, mostly in Italy, has made a careful
study of the brick and terra-cotta architecture of Northern Italy. He has just entered the
office of Messrs. Wyatt and Nölting, Baltimore.

Each year since the University of Pennsylvania Traveling Scholarship was founded, a prominent member
of the T Square Club has been the winner; and that Mr. Percy Ash, ex-president of this club, should
carry off the prize this year is particularly gratifying.

Mr. Ash has twice before competed, and each time came out a close second; but his old luck did
not entirely forsake him, for in his venture for the Roman Scholarship Prize he was very near to the front,
winning honorable mention.

H. L. Duhring, Jr., was a close second for the U. of P. Scholarship.

At the last regular T Square Club meeting, but two sets of drawings were submitted. The program
called for a "Garden for a Palatial Country House," and required a plan of the house and terrace
at 1/ 8 "scale, and a plan and section of the entire garden at a
scale of 1/ 32 of an inch.

The problem was modeled after the projet given at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, and required so vast
an amount of graded wash work in color, as to intimidate many of the regular competitors.
A. C. Muñoz, who won first mention, submitted three drawings, two of them nearly three by four
feet, while Albert Kelsey was disqualified for not having fulfilled
the requirements by omiting the 1/ 8" scale plan.

Some discussion advocating the postponement of the competition took
place, but Kelsey seemed to prefer being disqualified rather than
further exert himself; and possibly the knowledge that three draughtsmen
in Day's office and two in Cope& Stewardson's office had two unfinished
designs to complete, may have influenced him. In spite of the result
of this competition the eleven points previously won by Mr. Kelsey
give him the highest average for the past year's work.***** Notes.

Of the many minor or industrial arts which enter into a complete
architectural production, that of the smith is one of the most fascinating,
and strangely enough, it is one which at the present time has the
fewest workers who can be worthily compared with those of the past.

In the estimation of many of the most prominent and exacting architects
of the country there is but one maker of ornamental wrought iron in
America who can be trusted to intelligently carry out the spirit of
a fine design.

Why
this should be so it is hard to say, but the fact remains that most of the
best iron work done in this country in recent years has come from
the shop of John Williams of New York; and architects, it may be said,
instinctively turn to him for work of this class. Not only is there no longer an agreement of experts, and a consequent consensus
of nations, touching the broad and fundamental truths of Christianity, but what is far more
to the point, the knowledge of this Babylonian confusion has become a commonplace with the
multitudes. No doubt there are yet some shaded patches where the dew still struggles with the
desiccating sun--old-world sanctuaries of Catholicism whose dwellers hardly realize the existence
of unbelief or heresy, or who give at best a lazy, notional assent to the fact. But there are
few regions in so-called Christendom where the least educated are not now quite aware that
Christianity is but one of many religions in a much larger world than their forefathers were
aware of; that the intellect of modern, unlike that of mediæval Europe, is largely hostile
to its claims; that its defenders are infinitely at variance with one another; that there is
no longer any social disgrace connected with a non-profession of Christianity; in a word, that
the public opinion of the modern world has ceased to be Christian, and that the once all-dominating
religion which blocked out the serious consideration of any other claimant, bids fair to be
speedily reduced to its primitive helplessness and insignificance. The disintegrating effect
of such knowledge on the faith of the masses must be, and manifestly is, simply enormous. Not
that there is any rival consensus and authority to take the place of dethroned Catholicism.
Even scepticism is too little organized and embodied, too chaotic in its infinite variety of
contradictory positions, to create an influential consensus of any positive kind against faith.
Its effect, as far as the unthinking masses are concerned, is simply to destroy the chief extrinsic
support of their faith and to throw them back on the less regular, less reliable causes of
belief. If in addition it teaches them a few catchwords of free-thought, a few smart blasphemies
and syllogistic impertinences, this is of less consequence than at first sight appears, since
these are attempted after-justifications, and no real causes of their unbelief. For they love
the parade of formal reason, as they love big words or technical terms, or a smattering of
French or Latin, with all the delight of a child in the mysterious and unfamiliar; but their
pretence to be ruled by it is mere affectation, and the tenacity with which they cling to their
arguments is rather the tenacity of blind faith in a dogma, than of clear insight into principles.

And this brings us to the problem which gave birth to the present essay.

The growing infection of the uneducated or slightly educated masses of the Catholic laity with
the virus of prevalent unbelief is arousing the attention of a few of our clergy to the need
of coping with what is to them a new kind of difficulty. Amongst other kindred suggestions,
is that of providing tracts for the million dealing not as heretofore with the Protestant,
but with the infidel controversy. While the danger was more limited and remote it was felt
that, more harm than good would come of giving prominence in the popular mind to the fact and
existence of so much unbelief; that in many minds doubts unfelt before would be awakened; that
difficulties lay on the surface and were the progeny of shallow-mindedness, whereas the solutions
lay deeper down than the vulgar mind could reasonably be expected to go; that on the whole
it was better that the few should suffer, than that the many should be disturbed. The docile
and obedient could be kept away from contagion, or if infected, could be easily cured by an
act of blind confidence in the Church; while the disobedient would go their own way in any
case. Hence the idea of entering into controversy with those incompetent to deal with such
matters was wisely set aside. But now that the prevalence and growth of unbelief is as evident
as the sun at noon--now that it is no longer only the recalcitrant and irreligious, but even
the religious and docile-minded who are disturbed by the fact, it seems to some that, a policy
of silence and inactivity may be far more fruitful in evil than in good, that reverent reserve
must be laid aside and the pearls of truth cast into the trough of popular controversy.

But to this course an almost insuperable objection presents itself at first seeming. Seeing
that, the true cause of doubt and unbelief in the uncritical, is to be sought for proximately
in the decay of a popular consensus in favour of belief, and ultimately in the disagreements
and negations of those who lead and form public opinion, and in no wise in the reasons which
they allege when they attempt a criticism that is beyond them; what will it profit to deal
with the apparent cause if we cannot strike at the real cause? In practical matters, the reasons
men give for their conduct, to themselves as well as to others, are often untrue, never exhaustive.
Hence to refute their reasons will not alter their intentions. To dispel the sophisms assigned
by the uneducated as the basis of their unbelief, is not really to strike at the root of the
matter at all. Besides which, the work is endless; for if they are released from one snare
they will be as easily re-entangled in the next; and indeed what can such controversy do but
foster in them the false notion that, belief in possession may be dispossessed by every passing
difficulty, and that their faith is to be dependent on an intellectual completeness of which
they are for ever incapable. Indeed the unavoidable amount of controversy of all kinds, dinned
into the ears of the faithful in a country like this, favours a fallacy of intellectualism
very prejudicial to the repose of a living faith founded on concrete reasons, more or less
experimental.

As far as the many are concerned, much the same difficulty attends the preservation of their
faith in these days, as attended its creation in the beginnings of Christianity, before the
little flock had grown into a kingdom, when the intellect and power of the world was arrayed
against it, when it had neither the force of a world-wide consensus nor the voice of public
authority in its favour. In those days it was not by the "persuasive words of human wisdom"
that the crowds were gained over to Christ, but by a certain ostensio virtutis, by an experimental
and not merely by a rational proof of the Gospel--a proof which, if it admitted of any kind
of formulation, did not compel them in virtue of the logicality of its form. Further, when
the conditions and helps needed by the Church in her infancy, gave way to those belonging to
her established strength, it was by her ascendency over the strong, the wealthy, and the learned,
that she secured for the crowd,--for the weak and the poor and the ignorant,--the most necessary
support of a Christianized, international public opinion, and thereby extended the benefit
of her educative influence to those millions whom disinclination or weakness would otherwise
have deterred from the profession and practice of the faith.

If the Church of to-day is to retain her hold of the crowd in modernized or modernizing countries,
it must either be by renewing her ascendency over those who form and modify public opinion,
who even in the purest democracy are ever the few and not the many; or else by a reversion
to the methods of primitive times, by some palpable argument that speaks as clearly to the
simplest as to the subtlest, if only the heart be right. An outburst of miracle-working and
prophecy is hardly to be looked for; while the argument from the tree's fruits, or from the
moral miracle, is at present weakened by the extent to which non-Christians put in practice
the morality they have learnt from Christ. Other non-rational causes of belief draw individuals,
but they do not draw crowds.

If we cannot see very clearly what is to supply for the support once given to the faith of
the millions by public opinion, still their incapacity for dealing with the question on rational
grounds will not justify us altogether in silence. For in the first place it is an incapacity
of which they are not aware, or which at least they are very unwilling to admit. A candidate
at the hustings would run a poor chance of a hearing who, instead of seeming to appeal to the
reason of the mob should, in the truthfulness of his soul, try to convince them of their utter
incompetence to judge the simplest political point. Again, though unable to decide between
cause and cause, yet the rudest can often see that there is much to be said on both sides--though
what, he does not understand; and if this fact weakens his confidence in the right, it also
weakens it in the wrong; whereas had the right been silent, the wrong, in his judgment, would
thereby have been proved victorious. This will justify us at times in talking over the heads
of our readers and hearers, and in not sparing sonorous polysyllables, abstruse technicalities,
or even the pompous parade of syllogistic arguments with all their unsightly joints sticking
out for public admiration. Some hands may be too delicate for this coarse work; but there will
always be those to whom it is easy and congenial; and its utility is too evident to allow a
mere question of taste to stand in the way.

Moreover, it must be remembered that while many of the class referred to are glad to be free
from the pressure of a Christianized public opinion, and are only too willing to grasp at any
semblance of a reason for unbelief; others, more religiously disposed, are really troubled
by these popular, anti-Christian difficulties, the more so as they are often infected with
the fallacy, fostered by ceaseless controversy, which makes one's faith dependent on the formal
reason one can give for it.

Though this is not so, yet moral truthfulness forbids us to assent to what we, however falsely,
believe to be untrue. Hence while the virtue of faith remains untouched, its exercise with
regard to particular points may be inculpably suspended through ignorance, stupidity, misinformation,
and other causes.

In the interest of these well-disposed but easily puzzled believers of the ill-instructed and
uncritical sort, a series of anti-agnostic tracts for the million would really seem to be called
for. Yet never has the present writer felt more abjectly crushed with a sense of incompetence
than when posed by the difficulties of a "hagnostic" greengrocer, or of a dressmaker fresh
from the perusal of "Erbert" Spencer. Face to face with chaos, one knows not where to begin
the work of building up an orderly mind; nor will the self-taught genius brook a hint of possible
ignorance, or endure the discussion of dull presuppositions, without much pawing of the ground
and champing on the bit: "What I want," he says, "is a plain answer to a plain question." And
when you explain to him that for an answer he must go back very far and become a little child
again, and must unravel his mind to the very beginning like an ill-knit stocking, he looks
at once incredulous and triumphant as who should say: "There, I told you so!" Yet the same
critical incompetence that makes these simple folk quite obtuse to the true and adequate solution
of their problems (I am speaking of cases where such solutions are possible), makes them perfectly
ready to accept any sort of counter-sophistry or paralogism. A most excellent and genuine "convert"
of that class told me that he had stood out for years against the worship of the Blessed Virgin,
till one day it had occurred to him that, as a cause equals or exceeds its effect, so the Mother
must equal the Son. Another, equally genuine, professed to have been conquered by the reflection
that he had all his life been saying: "I believe in the Holy Catholic Church," and he could
not see the use of believing in it if he didn't belong to it. If their faith in Catholicism
or in any other religion depended on their logic, men of this widespread class were in a sorry
plight. Like many of their betters, these two men probably imagined the assigned reasons to
be the entire cause of their conversion, making no account of the many reasonable though non-logical
motives by which the change was really brought about. Hence to have abruptly and incautiously
corrected them, would perhaps but have been to reduce them to confusion and perplexity, and
to "destroy with one's logic those for whom Christ died."

That we do not sufficiently realize the dialectical incompetence of the uneducated is partly
to be explained by the fact that they often get bits of reasoning by rote, much as young boys
learn their Euclid; and that they frequently seem to understand principles because they apply
them in the right cases, just as we often quote a proverb appropriately without the slightest
idea of its origin or meaning beyond that it is the right thing to say in a certain connection.
As we ascend in the scale of education, there is more and more of this reasoning by rote, so
that critical incompetence is more easily concealed and may lurk unsuspected even in the pulpit
and the professorial chair, where logic alone seems paramount. The "hagnostic" greengrocer,
in all the self-confidence of his ignorance, is but the lower extreme of a class that runs
up much higher in the social scale and spreads out much wider in every direction.

But when we have realized more adequately how hopelessly incompetent the multitude must necessarily
be in the problems of specialists, we shall also see that it is only by inadequate and even
sophistical reasoning that most of their intellectual difficulties can be allayed; that the
full truth (and the half-truth is mostly a lie) would be Greek to them. If, then, Tracts for
the Million seem a necessity, they also seem an impossibility; for what self-respecting man
will sit down to weave that tissue of sophistry, special-pleading, violence, and vulgarity,
which alone will serve the practical purpose with those to whom trenchency is everything and
subtlety nothing? Even though the means involve a violation of taste rather than of morals,
yet can they be justified by the goodness of the end? Fortunately, however, the difficulty
is met by a particular application of God's universal method in the education of mankind. In
every grade of enlightenment there are found some who are sufficiently in advance of the rest
to be able to help them, and not so far in advance as practically to speak a different language.
What is a dazzling light for those just emerging from darkness, is darkness for those in a
yet stronger light. A statement may be so much less false than another, as to be relatively
true; so much less true than a third, as to be relatively false. For a mind wholly unprepared,
the full truth is often a light that blinds and darkness; whereas the tempered half-truth prepares
the way for a fuller disclosure in due time, even as the law and the prophets prepared the
way for the Gospel and Christ, or as the enigmas of faith school us to bear that light which
now no man can gaze on and live. Thus, though we may never use a lie in the interest of truth,
or bring men from error by arguments we know to be sophistical, yet we have the warrant of
Divine example, both in the natural and supernatural education of mankind, for the passive
permission of error in the interest of truth, as also of evil in the interest of good. Since
then there will ever be found those who in all good faith and sincerity can adapt themselves
to the popular need and supply each level of intelligence with the medicine most suited to
its digestion, all we ask is that a variety of standards in controversial writings be freely
recognized; that each who feels called to such efforts should put forth his very best with
a view to helping those minds which are likest his own; that none should deliberately condescend
to the use of what from his point of view would be sophistries and vulgarities, remembering
at the same time that the superiority of his own taste and judgment is more relative than absolute,
and that in the eyes of those who come after, he himself may be but a Philistine.

We conclude then that all that can be done in the way of Tracts for the Million should be done;
that seed of every kind should be scattered to the four winds, hoping that each may find some
congenial soil.

But even when all that can be done in this way to save the masses from the contagion of unbelief
has been done, we shall be as far as ever from having found a substitute for the support which
formerly was lent to their faith by a Christianized public opinion. Can we hope for anything
more than thus to retard the leakage? The answer to this would take us to the second of our
proposed considerations, namely, our attitude towards those who form and modify that public
opinion by which the masses are influenced for good or for evil. But it is an answer which
for the present must be deferred. [1]

Nov. 1900.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: The Introduction to the First Series of these essays attempts to deal with this
further question.]

XX.

AN APOSTLE OF NATURALISM.

Naturalism includes various schools which agree in the first principle that nothing is true
but what can be justified by those axiomatic truths which every-day experience forces upon
our acceptance, not indeed as self-evident, but as inevitable, unless we are to be incapacitated
for practical life. It is essentially the philosophy of the unphilosophical, that is, of those
who believe what they are accustomed to believe, and because they are so accustomed; who are
incapable of distinguishing between the subjective necessity imposed by habits and the objective
necessity founded in the nature of things. It is no new philosophy, but as old as the first
dawn of philosophic thought, for it is the form towards which the materialistic mind naturally
gravitates. Given a population sufficiently educated to philosophize in any fashion, and of
necessity the bent of the majority will be in the direction of some form of Naturalism. Hence
we find that the "Agnosticism" of Professor Huxley is eminently suited to the capacity and
taste of the semi-educated majorities in our large centres of civilization. Still it must not
be supposed that the majority really philosophizes at all even to this extent. The pressure
of life renders it morally impossible. But they like to think that they do so. The whole temper
of mind, begotten and matured by the rationalistic school, is self-sufficient: every man his
own prophet, priest, and king; every man his own philosopher. Hence, he who poses as a teacher
of the people will not be tolerated. The theorist must come forward with an affectation of
modesty, as into the presence of competent critics; he must only expose his wares, win for
himself a hearing, and then humbly wait for the placet of the sovereign people. But plainly
this is merely a conventional homage to a theory that no serious mind really believes in. We
know well enough, that the opinions and beliefs of the multitude are formed almost entirely
by tradition, imitation, interest, by in fact any influence rather than that of pure reason.
Taught they are, and taught they must be, however they repudiate it. But the most successful
teachers and leaders are those who contrive to wound their sense of intellectual self-sufficiency
least, and to offer them the strong food of dogmatic assertion sugared over and sparkling with
the show of wit and reason.

Philosophy for the million may be studied profitably in one of its popular exponents whose
works have gained wide currency among the class referred to. Mr. S. Laing is a very fair type
of the average mind-leader, owing his great success to his singular appreciation of the kind
of treatment needed to secure a favourable hearing. We do not pretend to review Mr. Laing's
writings for their own sake, but simply as good specimens of a class which is historically
rather than philosophically interesting.

We have before us three of his most popular books: Modern Science and Modern Thought (nineteenth
thousand), Problems of the Future (thirteenth thousand), Human Origins (twelfth thousand),
to which we shall refer as M.S., P.F., H.O., in this essay; taking the responsibility of all
italics on ourselves, unless otherwise notified.

Mr. Laing is not regretfully forced into materialism by some mental confusion or obscurity,
but he revels in it, and invites all to taste and see how gracious a philosophy it is. There
is an ill-concealed levity and coarseness in his handling of religious subjects which breaks,

  At seasons, through the gilded pale,

and which warns us from casting reasons before those who would but trample them under foot.
It is rather for the sake of those who read such literature, imprudently perhaps, but with
no sympathy, and yet find their imagination perplexed and puzzled with a swarm of minute sophistries
and difficulties, collectively bewildering, though contemptible singly, that we think it well
to form some estimate of the philosophical value of such works.

Nothing in our study of Mr. Laing surprised us more than to discover [1] that he had lived
for more than the Scriptural span of three-score and ten years, a life of varied fortunes and
many experiences. It seems to us incredible that any man of even average thoughtfulness could,
after so many years, find life without God, without immortality, without definite meaning or
assignable goal, "worth living," and that "to be born in a civilized country in the nineteenth
century is a boon for which a man can never be sufficiently thankful." [2] [Thankful to whom?
one might ask parenthetically.] In other words, he is a bland optimist, and has nothing but
vials of contempt to pour upon the pessimists, from Ecclesiastes down to Carlyle. Pessimism,
we are told confidentially, is not an outcome of just reasoning on the miserable residue of
hope which materialism leaves to us, but of the indisposition "of those digestive organs upon
which the sensation of health and well-being so mainly depends." "It is among such men, with
cultivated intellects, sensitive nerves, and bad digestion, that we find the prophets and disciples
of pessimism." [3] The inference is, that men of uncultivated intellects, coarse nerves, and
ostrich livers will coincide with Mr. Laing in his sanguine view of the ruins of religion.
The sorrowing dyspeptic asks in despair: "Son of man, thinkest thou that these dry bones will
live again?" "I'm cock-sure of it," answers Mr. Laing, and the ground of his assurance is the
healthiness of his liver.

Carlyle, who in other matters is, according to Mr. Laing, a great genius, a more than prophet
of the new religion, on this point suddenly collapses into "a dreadful croaker," styling his
own age "barren, brainless, soulless, faithless." [4] But the reason is, of course, that "he
suffered from chronic dyspepsia" and was unable "to eat his three square meals a day." A very
consistent explanation for an avowed materialist, but slightly destructive to the value of
his own conclusions, being a two-edged sword. Indeed he almost allows as much. "For such dyspeptic
patients there is an excuse. Pessimism is probably as inevitably their creed, as optimism is
for the more fortunate mortals who enjoy the mens sana in corpore sano." [5] However, there
are some pessimists for whom indigestion can plead no excuse, [6] but for whose intellectual
perversity some other cosmic influence must be sought "behind the veil, behind the veil,"--to
borrow Mr. Laing's favourite line from his favourite poem. These are not only "social swells,
would-be superior persons and orthodox theologians, but even a man of light and learning like
Mr. F. Harrison." "Religion, they say, is becoming extinct.... Without a lively faith in such
a personal, ever-present deity who listens to our prayers, ... there can be, they say, no religion;
and they hold, and I think rightly hold, that the only support for such a religion is to be
found in the assumed inspiration of the Bible and the Divinity of Christ." "Destroy these and
they think the world will become vulgar and materialized, losing not only the surest sanction
of morals, but ... the spiritual aspiration and tendencies," &c. [7] "To these gloomy forebodings
I venture to return a positive and categorical denial ... Scepticism has been the great sweetener
of modern life." [8] How he justifies his denial by maintaining that morality can hold its
own when reduced to a physical science; that the "result of advancing civilization" and of
the materialistic psychology is "a clearer recognition of the intrinsic sacredness and dignity
of every human soul;" [9] that Christianity without dogma, without miracles [or, as he calls
it, "Christian agnosticism"], shall retain the essential spirit, the pure morality, the consoling
beliefs, and as far as possible even the venerable form and sacred associations of the old
faith, may appear later. At present we are concerned directly with pointing out how Mr. Laing's
optimism at once marks him off from those men who, whether believing or misbelieving or unbelieving,
have thought deeply and felt deeply, who have seen clearly that materialism leaves nothing
for man's soul but the husks of swine; who have therefore boldly faced the inevitable alternative
between spiritualistic philosophy and hope, and materialism with its pessimistic corollary.
That a man may be a materialist or atheist and enjoy life thoroughly, who does not know? but
then it is just at the expense of his manhood, because he lives without thought, reflection,
or aspiration, i.e., materialistically. Mr. Laing no doubt, as he confesses, has lived pleasantly
enough. He has found in what he calls science an endless source of diversion, he betrays himself
everywhere as a man of intense intellectual curiosity in every direction, and yet withal so
little concerned with the roots of things, so easily satisfied with a little plausible coherence
in a theory, as not to have found truth an apparently stern or exacting mistress, not to have
felt the anguish of any deep mental conflict. His intellectual labours have been pleasurable
because easy, and, in his own eyes, eminently fruitful and satisfactory. He has adopted an
established cause, thrown himself into it heart and soul; others indeed had gone before him
and laboured, and he has entered into their labours. Indeed, he is frank in disclaiming all
originality of discovery or theory; [10] he has not risked the disappointment and anxiety of
improving on the Evolution Gospel, but he has collected and sorted and arranged and published
the evidence obtained by others. This has always furnished him with an interest in life; [11]
but whether it be a rational interest or not depends entirely on the usefulness or hurtfulness
of his work. He admits, however, that though life for him has been worth living, "some may
find it otherwise from no fault of their own, more by their own fate." [12] But all can lead
fairly happy lives by following his large-type platitudinous maxim, "Fear nothing, make the
best of everything." [13] In other words, the large majority, who are not and never can be
so easily and pleasantly circumstanced as Mr. Laing, are told calmly to make the best of it
and to rejoice in the thought that their misery is a necessary factor in the evolution of their
happier posterity. This is the new gospel: Pauperes evangelizantur--"Good news for the poor."
[14] "Progress and not happiness" is the end we are told to make for, over and over again;
but, progress towards what, is never explained, nor is any basis for this duty assigned. Indeed,
duty means nothing for Mr. Laing but an inherited instinct, which if we choose to disobey or
if we happen not to possess, who shall blame us or talk to us of "oughts"?

And now to consider more closely the grounds of Mr. Laing's very cheerful view of a world in
which, for all we know, there is no soul, no God, and certainly no faith. Since of the two
former we know and can know nothing, we must build our happiness, our morality, our "religion,"
on a basis whereof they form no part. He believes that morality will be able to hold its own
distinct, not only from all belief in revelation, in a personal God, and in a spiritual soul,
but in spite of a philosophy which by tracing the origin of moral judgments to mere physical
laws of hereditary transmission of experienced utilities, robs them of all authority other
than prudential, and convicts them of being illusory so far as they seem to be of higher than
human origin.

Herein, as usual, he treads in the steps of Professor Huxley, "the greatest living master of
English prose" (though why his mastery of prose should add to his weight as a philosopher,
we fail to see). "Such ideas evidently come from education, and are not the results either
of inherited instinct [15] or of supernatural gift.... Given a being with man's brain, man's
hands, and erect stature, it is easy to see how ... rules of conduct ... must have been formed
and fixed by successive generations, according to the Darwinian laws." [16]

He tells us: "We may read the Athanasian Creed less, but we practise Christian charity more
in the present than in any former age." [17] "Faith has diminished, charity increased." [18]

Of moral principles, he says: "Why do we say that ... they carry conviction with them and prove
themselves?... Still, there they are, and being what they are ... it requires no train of reasoning
or laboured reflection to make us feel that 'right is right,' and that it is better for ourselves
and others to act on such precepts ... rather than to reverse these rules and obey the selfish
promptings of animal nature." [19] "It is clearly our highest wisdom to follow right, not from
selfish calculation, ... but because 'right is right.' ... For practical purposes it is comparatively
unimportant how this standard got there ... as an absolute imperative rule." [20] As to the
apprehended ill effect of agnosticism on morals, he says: "The foundations of morals [21] are
fortunately built on solid rock and not on shifting sand. It may truly be said in a great many
cases that, as individuals and nations become more sceptical, they become more moral." [22]
"If there is one thing more certain than another in the history of evolution, it is that morals
have been evolved by the same laws as regulate the development of species." [23]

These citations embody Mr. Laing's opinions on this point, and show very clearly his utter
incapacity for elementary philosophic thought. 3d. An amphitheatre, to seat about two hundred,
for lectures on art subjects. A library and an assembly hall.

4th. Four class rooms.

These rooms should be well-lighted and of easy access to the court
and gallery.

5th. A janitor's room and an office for the custodian. These rooms may be small, but should be conveniently
placed either at the entrance to the building or to the grounds.

As
the number of the students is limited, the size of the rooms is of
less importance than the circulation, convenience and artistic beauty
of the whole.

The building, being the home of the arts, should be
pure in style and classical in feeling, though not necessarily archæological.

To say that moral principles "carry conviction with them, and prove themselves" (i.e., are
self-evident), unless, as we suspect, it is mere verbiage conveying nothing particular to Mr.
Laing's brain, is to deny that right has reference to the consequences of action as bearing
on human progress and evolution, which is to deny the very theory he wishes to uphold. No intuitionist
could have spoken more strongly. Then we are assured that we "feel" rightness, or that "right
is right"--apparently as a simple irresoluble quality of certain actions--and with same breath,
that "it is better for ourselves and others to act on these rules," where he jumps off to utilitarianism
again; and then we are forbidden to "obey the selfish impulses of our animal nature"--a strange
prohibition for one who sees in us nothing but animal nature, who denies us any free power
to withstand its impulses. Then it is "clearly our highest wisdom to follow right"--an appeal
to prudential motives--"not from any selfish calculations"--a repudiation of prudential motives--"but
because 'right is right'"--an appeal to a blind unreasoning instinct, and a prohibition to
question its authority. We are told that for practical purposes it matters little whence this
absolute imperative rule originates. Was there ever a more unpractical and short-sighted assertion!
Convince men that the dictates of conscience are those of fear or selfishness, that they are
all mere animal instincts, that they are anything less than divine, and who will care for Mr.
Laing's appeal to blind faith in the "rightness of right"?

As long as Christian tradition lives on, as it will for years among the masses, the effects
of materialist ethics will not be felt; but as these new theories filter down from the few
to the many, they will inevitably produce their logical consequences in practical matters.
No one with open eyes can fail to see how the leaven is spreading already. Still the majority
act and speak to a great extent under the influence of the old belief, which they have repudiated,
in the freedom of man's will and the Divine origin of right. It is quite plain that Mr. Laing
has either never had patience to think the matter out, or has found it beyond his compass.
Having thus established morality on a foundation independent of religion and of everything
else, making "right" rest on "right," he assumes the prophetic robe, and on the strength of
his seventy years of experience and philosophy poses as a Cato Major for the edification of
the semi-scientific millions of young persons to whom he addresses his volumes. We have a whole
chapter on Practical Life, [24] on self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-control, full of portentous
platitudes and ancient saws; St. Paul's doctrine of charity, and all that is best in the teaching
of the Sermon on the Mount, is liberated from its degrading association with the belief in
a God who rewards and punishes.[25] We are "to act strenuously in that direction which, after
conscientious inquiry, seems the best, ... and trust to what religious men call Providence,
and scientific men Evolution, for the result," and all this simply on the bold assertion of
this sage whose sole aim is "to leave the world a little better rather than a little worse
for my individual unit of existence." It had been Sir Adrian's own thought; but he broke out now in inarticulate
protest.

It seemed too gross, too monstrous.

"Yes, Adrian, I have. You warned me, good friend, in your peaceful room-- ah,
how long ago it seems now! that night, when all that could make life beautiful
lay to my hand for the taking. Oh, man, why did I not heed you! You warned
me: he who breaks one law will end by breaking many. You were right. See
the harm I wreaked-- those poor fellows, who were but doing their
duty bravely, whose lives I sacrificed without remorse! It has, however, nearly run its course, and the
old order must give place to the new, i.e., to agnosticism. But even
allowing, what we dare say Mr. Laing would not ask, that the speculative
side of the new religion is fully defined and worked out, and ready to
displace the old dogmatic creeds, yet its practical aspect is so vague
that he writes: "I think the time is come when the intellectual victory
of agnosticism is so far assured, that it behoves thinking men to begin
to consider what practical results are likely to follow from it." [28]
In the face of this confession we find Mr. Laing industriously
addressing himself to "those who lack time and opportunity for
studying," [29] to the "minds of my younger readers, and of the working
classes who are striving after culture," [30] "to what may be called the
semi-scientific readers, ... who have already acquired some elementary
ideas about science," "to the millions;" [31] and endeavouring by all
means in his power to destroy the last vestige of their faith in that
religion which alone provides for them a definite code of morality
strengthened by apparent sanctions of the highest order, and venerable
at least by its antiquity and universality. [32] And while he is thus
busily pulling down the old scaffolding, he is calmly beginning to
consider the practical results. This is his method of "leaving the world
a little better than he found it." He professes to understand and
appreciate "In Memoriam."
  Her faith through form is pure as thine,
    Her hands are quicker unto good;
    O sacred be the flesh and blood,
  To which she links a truth divine.

On his own principles he is convicted of being a lover of mischief. No, one is sorely tempted
to think that these men are well aware that the moral sense which sound philosophy and Christian
faith have developed, is still strong in the minds and deeper conscience of the English-speaking
races, and that were they to present materialism in all its loathsome nudity to the public
gaze, they would be hissed off the stage. And so they dress it up in the clothes of the old
religion just for the present, with many a quiet wink between themselves at the expense of
the "semi-scientific" reader.

We have already adverted to Mr. Laing's utter incapacity for anything like philosophy, except
so far as that term can be applied to a power of raking together, selecting, and piling up
into "a popular shape" the scraps of information which favour the view whose correctness he
was convinced of ere he began. A few further remarks may justify this somewhat severe estimate.
After stating that in the solution of life and soul problems, science stops short at germs
and nucleated cells, he proceeds with the usual tirade against metaphysics: "Take Descartes'
fundamental axiom: Cogito ergo sum.... Is it really an axiom?... If the fact that I am conscious
of thinking proves the fact that I exist, is the converse true that whatever does not think
does not exist?... Does a child only begin to exist when it begins to think? If Cogito ergo
sum is an institution to which we can trust, why is not Non cogito ergo non sum?" [34] Here
is a man posing before the gaping millions as a philosopher and a severe logician, who thinks
that the proposition, "every cow is a quadruped," is disproved by the evident falsehood of,
"what is not a cow is not a quadruped," which he calls "the converse." He sums up magnificently
by saying: "These are questions to which no metaphysical system that I have ever seen, can
return the semblance of an answer;" giving the impression of a life devoted to a deep and exhaustive
study of all schools of philosophy. Mr. Laing here surely is addressing his "younger readers."

He tells us elsewhere [35] that, "when analyzed by science, spiritualism leads straight to
materialism;" free-will "can be annihilated by the simple mechanical expedient of looking at
a black wafer stuck on a white wall;" that if "Smith falls into a trance and believes himself
to be Jones, he really is Jones, and Smith has become a stranger to him while the trance lasts....
I often ask myself the question, If he died during one of these trances, which would he be,
Smith or Jones? and I confess it takes some one wiser than I am to answer it." Without pretending
to be wiser than Mr. Laing, we hope it will not be too presumptuous for us to suggest that
if Smith dies in a trance believing himself to be Jones, he is under a delusion, and that he
really is Smith. Still it had to be done; the sooner the better; if possible while the storm lasted
and while roaring waters kept all ill news upon land and the interloping
heir on his island.

And
thus that very evening, whilst Madeleine sobbed on her pillow and Molly was snugly enjoying the
warm hospitality of Scarthey, a mounted messenger departed from the Priory to overtake Miss
O'Donoghue on the road to Bath and acquaint her with the terrible fatality that had befallen
her darling and favourite.

CHAPTER XV UNDER THE LIGHT DECEMBER 16TH.-- Again I separate your
green boards, my diary.

No one has opened you; for your key, now a little rusty, still hangs
upon my watch-- my poor watch whose heart has ceased to beat, who,
unlike its mistress, has not survived the ordeal by sand and water!

What is better, no one has attempted to force your secrets from you;
which, since it appears that it had been agreed that Molly de Savenaye
was dead and buried in Scarthey sands, speaks well for all concerned.

But she is not dead. She is very much alive; and very happy to be so. This will indeed be an
adventure worth reading, in the days to come; and it must be recounted-- though were I to live
to a hundred years I do not think I could ever forget it. Tanty Rose (she has not yet stopped scolding
everybody for the fright she has had) is in the next room with Madeleine, who, poor dear, has
been made quite ill by this prank of mine; but since after the distress
caused by her Molly's death she has had the joy of finding her Molly
alive again, things are balanced, I take it; and all being well that
ends well, the whole affair is pleasant to remember.

Recapitulating this farrago of nonsense on p. 188, he adds a new difficulty which ought to
make him pause in his wild career. "What is the value of the evidence of the senses if a suggestion
can make us see the hat, but not the man who wears it; or dance half the night with an imaginary
partner? Am I 'I myself, I,' or am I a barrel-organ playing 'God save the Queen,' if the stops
are set in the normal fashion, but the 'Marseillaise' if some cunning hand has altered them
without my knowledge? These are questions which I cannot answer." He cannot answer a question
on which the value of his whole system of physical philosophy depends; uncertain about his
own identity, about the evidence of his senses, he would make the latter the sole rule and
measure of certitude, and deny to man any higher faculty by which alone he can justify his
trust in his cognitive faculties. Another instance of his absolute ignorance of common philosophic
terminology is when he asserts that according to theology we know the dogmas of religion by
"intuition." [37]

This doctrine rests on Cardinal Newman's celebrated theory of the "Illative Sense." Surely
a moment's reflection on the meaning of words, not to speak of a slight acquaintance with the
book referred to, would have saved him from confounding two notions so sharply distinguished
as "intuition" and "inference." Again, "There can be no doubt there are men often of great
piety and excellence who have, or fancy they have, a sort of sixth sense, or, as Cardinal Newman
calls it, an 'illative sense,' by which they see by intuition ... things unprovable or disprovable
by ordinary reason." [38] Can a man who makes such reckless travesties of a view which he manifestly
has never studied, be credited with intellectual honesty?

Doubtless, the semi-scientific millions will be much impressed by the wideness of Mr. Laing's
reading and his profound grasp of all that he has read, when they are told casually that "space
and time are, ... to use the phraseology of Kant, 'imperative categories;'" [39] but perhaps
to other readers it may convey nothing more than that he has heard a dim something somewhere
about Kant, about the categories, about space and time being schemata of sense, and about the
categorical imperative. It is only one instance of the unscrupulous recklessness which shows
itself everywhere. Akin to this is his absolute misapprehension of the Christian religion which
he labours to refute. He never for a moment questions his perfect understanding of it, and
of all it has got to say for itself. Brought up apparently among Protestants, who hold to a
verbal inspiration [40] and literal interpretation of the Scriptures, who have no traditional
or authoritative interpretation of it, he concludes at once that his own crude, boyish conception
of Christianity is the genuine one, and that every deviation therefrom is a "climbing down,"
or a minimizing. He has no suspicion that the wider views of interpretation are as old as Christianity
itself, and have always co-existed with the narrower.

He regards the Christian idea of God as essentially anthropomorphic. Indeed, whether in good
faith or for the sake of effect, he brings forward the old difficulties which have been answered
ad nauseam with an air of freshness, as though unearthed for the first time, and therefore
as setting religion in new and unheard-of straits. So, at all events, it will seem to the millions
of his young readers and to the working classes.

Let us follow him in some of his destructive criticism, or rather denunciations, in order to
observe his mode of procedure. "The discoveries of science ... make it impossible for sincere
men to retain the faith," &c., [41] therefore all who differ from Mr. Laing are insincere.
"It is absolutely certain that portions of the Bible are not true; and those, important portions."
[42] This is based on two premisses which are therefore absolutely certain, (i) Mr. Laing's
conclusions about the antiquity of man--of which more anon; (43) his baldly literal interpretation
of the Bible as delivered to him in his early "infancy. On p. 253, we have the ancient difficulty
from the New Testament prophecy of the proximate end of the world, without the faintest indication
that it was felt 1800 years ago, and has been dealt with over and over again. Papias [44] is
lionized [45] in order to upset the antiquity of the four Gospels--which upsetting, however,
depends on a dogmatic interpretation of an ambiguous phrase, and the absence of positive testimony.
Here again there is no evidence that Mr. Laing has read any elementary text-book on the authenticity
of the Gospels. He is "perfectly clear" as to the fourth Gospel being a forgery; again for
reasons which he alone has discovered. [46] Paul is the first inventor of Christian dogma,
without any doubt or hesitation. But the undoubted results of modern science ... shatter to
pieces the whole fabric. It is as certain as that 2 + 2 = 4 that the world was not created
in the manner described in Genesis."

As regards harmonistic difficulties of the Old and New Testaments, he assumes the same confident
tone of bold assertion without feeling any obligation to notice the solutions that have been
suggested. It makes for his purpose to represent the orthodox as suddenly struck dumb and confounded
by these amazing discoveries of his. He sees discrepancies everywhere in the Gospel narrative,
e.g.: [47]

  "Judas' death is differently described." "Herod is introduced by
  Luke and not mentioned by the others." "Jesus carried His own Cross in
  one account, while Simon of Cyrene bore it in another. Jesus gave no
  answer to Pilate, says Matthew; He explains that His Kingdom was not
  of the world, says John. Mary His Mother sat (sic) at the foot of
  the Cross, according to St. John; it was not His Mother, but Mary the
  mother of Salome (sic) 'who beheld Him from afar,' according to Mark
  and Matthew. There was a guard set to watch the tomb, says Matthew;
  there is no mention of one by the others."

At first we thought Mr. Laing must have meant differences and not discrepancies; but the following
paragraph forbade so lenient an interpretation. "The only other mention of Mary by St. John,
who describes her as sitting (sic) by the foot of the Cross, is apocryphal, being directly
contradicted by the very precise statement [48] in the three other Gospels, that the Mary who
was present on that occasion was a different woman, the mother of Salome." Even his youngest
readers ought to open their eyes at this. Similarly he thinks the omission of the Lord's Prayer
by St. Mark tells strongly against its authenticity. [49]

II.

We must now say something about the great facts of evolutionary philosophy which have shattered
dogmatic Christianity to pieces, and have made it impossible for any sincere man to remain
a Christian. To say that Mr. Laing is absolutely certain of the all-sufficiency of evolutionism
to explain everything that is knowable to the human mind, that he does not hint for a moment
that this philosophy is found by the "bell-wethers" of science to be every day less satisfactory
as a complete rationale of the physical cosmos; is really to understate the case for sheer
lack of words to express the intensity of his conviction. His fundamental fact is that, however
theologians may shuffle out of the first chapter of Genesis by converting days into periods,
when we come to the story of the Noachean Deluge, we are confronted with such a glaring absurdity
that we must at once allow that the Bible is full of myths. For history and science show that
man existed probably two hundred thousand years ago, at all events not less than twenty thousand;
also that five thousand B.C., a highly organized civilization existed in Egypt, whose monuments
of that date give evidence to the full development of racial and linguistic differences as
now existing among men; that this plants the common stem from which these have branched off,
in an indefinitely remote pre-historic period; that to suppose that the present races and tongues
are all derived from one man (Noe), who lived only two thousand B.C., is a monstrous impossibility;
still more so, to believe that the countless thousands of species of animals which populate
the world were collected from the four quarters of the globe, were housed and fed in the Ark,
landed on Mount Ararat, and thence spread themselves out over the world again regardless of
interjacent seas. Hence the Bible story of human origins is a mere myth; man has not fallen,
but has risen by slow evolution from some ancestor common to him and apes, at a remote period,
long sons prior even to the miocene period, which shows man to have been then as obstinately
differentiated from the apes as ever. Therefore "all did not die in Adam," and seeing this
is the foundation of the dogmatic Christianity invented by Paul, the whole thing collapses
like a house of cards. [45]

And indeed, given that the Bible means what Mr. Laing says it means, and that science has proved
what he says it has proved, that the two results are incompatible, few would care to deny.
As regards the latter condition, let us see some of his reasonings. We are told that "modern
science shows that uninterrupted historical records, confirmed by contemporary monuments, carry
history back at least one thousand years before the supposed creation of man ... and show then
no trace of a commencement, but populous cities, celebrated temples, great engineering works,
and a high state of the arts and of civilization already existing." [46] Strange to say, Mr.
Laing developes a sudden reverence for the testimony of priests at the outset of his historical
inquiries, and finds that history begins with "priestly organizations;" [47] that the royal
records are "made and preserved by special castes of priestly colleges and learned scribes,
and that they are to a great extent precise in date and accurate in fact." Of course this does
not include Christian priests, but the priests of barbarous cults of many thousand years ago,
who, as well as their royal masters, are at once credited with all the delicacy of the accurate
criticism which we boast of in these days--how vainly, God knows. We are told one moment that
Herodotus "was credulous, and not very critical in distinguishing between fact and fable,"
that his "sources of information were often not much better than vague popular traditions,
or the tales told by guides;" [48] and yet we are to lay great stress on his assertion that
the Egyptian priests told him "that during the long succession of ages of the three hundred
and forty-five high priests of Heliopolis, whose statues they showed him in the Temple of the
Sun, there had been no change in the length of human life or the course of nature." [49] A
valuable piece of evidence if Herodotus reports rightly, and if the priest was not like the
average guide, and if the statues answered to real existences, and if each of the three hundred
and forty-five high priests made a truthful assertion of the above to his successor for the
benefit of posterity.

