CHAPTER XI.

We are getting foreignized rapidly and with facility.  We are getting reconciled to halls and
bedchambers with unhomelike stone floors and no carpets--floors that ring to the tread of one's
heels with a sharpness that is death to sentimental musing.  We are getting used to tidy, noiseless
waiters, who glide hither and thither, and hover about your back and your elbows like butterflies,
quick to comprehend orders, quick to fill them; thankful for a gratuity without regard to the
amount; and always polite--never otherwise than polite.  That is the strangest curiosity yet--a
really polite hotel waiter who isn't an idiot.  We are getting used to driving right into the
central court of the hotel, in the midst of a fragrant circle of vines and flowers, and in
the midst also of parties of gentlemen sitting quietly reading the paper and smoking.  We are
getting used to ice frozen by artificial process in ordinary bottles --the only kind of ice
they have here.  We are getting used to all these things, but we are not getting used to carrying
our own soap.  We are sufficiently civilized to carry our own combs and toothbrushes, but this
thing of having to ring for soap every time we wash is new to us and not pleasant at all. 
We think of it just after we get our heads and faces thoroughly wet or just when we think we
have been in the bathtub long enough, and then, of course, an annoying delay follows.  These
Marseillaises make Marseillaise hymns and Marseilles vests and Marseilles soap for all the
world, but they never sing their hymns or wear their vests or wash with their soap themselves.

We have learned to go through the lingering routine of the table d'hote with patience, with
serenity, with satisfaction.  We take soup, then wait a few minutes for the fish; a few minutes
more and the plates are changed, and the roast beef comes; another change and we take peas;
change again and take lentils; change and take snail patties (I prefer grasshoppers); change
and take roast chicken and salad; then strawberry pie and ice cream; then green figs, pears,
oranges, green almonds, etc.; finally coffee.  Wine with every course, of course, being in
France. With such a cargo on board, digestion is a slow process, and we must sit long in the
cool chambers and smoke--and read French newspapers, which have a strange fashion of telling
a perfectly straight story till you get to the "nub" of it, and then a word drops in that no
man can translate, and that story is ruined.  An embankment fell on some Frenchmen yesterday,
and the papers are full of it today--but whether those sufferers were killed, or crippled,
or bruised, or only scared is more than I can possibly make out, and yet I would just give
anything to know.

We were troubled a little at dinner today by the conduct of an American, who talked very loudly
and coarsely and laughed boisterously where all others were so quiet and well behaved.  He
ordered wine with a royal flourish and said:

"I never dine without wine, sir" (which was a pitiful falsehood), and looked around upon the
company to bask in the admiration he expected to find in their faces.  All these airs in a
land where they would as soon expect to leave the soup out of the bill of fare as the wine!--in
a land where wine is nearly as common among all ranks as water!  This fellow said: "I am a
free-born sovereign, sir, an American, sir, and I want everybody to know it!"  He did not mention
that he was a lineal descendant of Balaam's ass, but everybody knew that without his telling it.

We have driven in the Prado--that superb avenue bordered with patrician mansions and noble
shade trees--and have visited the chateau Boarely and its curious museum.  They showed us a
miniature cemetery there--a copy of the first graveyard that was ever in Marseilles, no doubt.
The delicate little skeletons were lying in broken vaults and had their household gods and
kitchen utensils with them.  The original of this cemetery was dug up in the principal street
of the city a few years ago.  It had remained there, only twelve feet underground, for a matter
of twenty-five hundred years or thereabouts.  Romulus was here before he built Rome, and thought
something of founding a city on this spot, but gave up the idea.  He may have been personally
acquainted with some of these Phoenicians whose skeletons we have been examining.

In the great Zoological Gardens we found specimens of all the animals the world produces, I
think, including a dromedary, a monkey ornamented with tufts of brilliant blue and carmine
hair--a very gorgeous monkey he was --a hippopotamus from the Nile, and a sort of tall, long-legged
bird with a beak like a powder horn and close-fitting wings like the tails of a dress coat.
This fellow stood up with his eyes shut and his shoulders stooped forward a little, and looked
as if he had his hands under his coat tails. Such tranquil stupidity, such supernatural gravity,
such self-righteousness, and such ineffable self-complacency as were in the countenance and
attitude of that gray-bodied, dark-winged, bald-headed, and preposterously uncomely bird! 
He was so ungainly, so pimply about the head, so scaly about the legs, yet so serene, so unspeakably
satisfied!  He was the most comical-looking creature that can be imagined.  It was good to
hear Dan and the doctor laugh--such natural and such enjoyable laughter had not been heard
among our excursionists since our ship sailed away from America.  This bird was a godsend to
us, and I should be an ingrate if I forgot to make honorable mention of him in these pages.
Ours was a pleasure excursion; therefore we stayed with that bird an hour and made the most
of him.  We stirred him up occasionally, but he only unclosed an eye and slowly closed it again,
abating no jot of his stately piety of demeanor or his tremendous seriousness.  He only seemed
to say, "Defile not Heaven's anointed with unsanctified hands."  We did not know his name,
and so we called him "The Pilgrim."  Dan said:

"All he wants now is a Plymouth Collection."

The boon companion of the colossal elephant was a common cat!  This cat had a fashion of climbing
up the elephant's hind legs and roosting on his back.  She would sit up there, with her paws
curved under her breast, and sleep in the sun half the afternoon.  It used to annoy the elephant
at first, and he would reach up and take her down, but she would go aft and climb up again.
She persisted until she finally conquered the elephant's prejudices, and now they are inseparable
friends.  The cat plays about her comrade's forefeet or his trunk often, until dogs approach,
and then she goes aloft out of danger.  The elephant has annihilated several dogs lately that
pressed his companion too closely.

