                  "And not alone these wide,
Deep-planted yearnings, seeking with a cry
Their meat from God, in Thee are satisfied;
But all our instincts waking suddenly
Within the soul, like infants from their sleep
That stretch their arms into the dark and weep,
Thy voice can still.  The stricken heart bereft
Of all its brood of singing hopes, and left
'Mid leafless boughs, a cold, forsaken nest
With snow-flakes in it, folded in Thy breast
Doth lose its deadly chill; and grief that creeps
Unto Thy side for shelter, finding there
The wound's deep cleft, forgets its moan, and weeps
Calm, quiet tears, and on Thy forehead Care
Hath looked until its thorns, no longer bare,
Put forth pale roses.  Pain on Thee doth press
Its quivering cheek, and all the weariness,
The want that keep their silence, till from Thee
They hear the gracious summons, none beside
Hath spoken to the world-worn, 'Come to me,'
Tell forth their heavy secrets.

                  "Thou dost hide
These in Thy bosom, and not these alone,
But all our heart's fond treasure that had grown
A burden else: O Saviour, tears were weighed
To Thee in plenteous measure!  none hath shown
That Thou didst smile! yet hast Thou surely made
All joy of ours Thine own.

                 "Thou madest us for Thine;
We seek amiss, we wander to and fro;
Yet are we ever on the track Divine;
The soul confesseth Thee, but sense is slow
To lean on aught but that which it may see;
So hath it crowded up these Courts below
With dark and broken images of Thee;
Lead Thou us forth upon Thy Mount, and show
Thy goodly patterns, whence these things of old
By Thee were fashioned; One though manifold.
Glass Thou Thy perfect likeness in the soul,
Show us Thy countenance, and we are whole!"

No one, I am quite certain, will regret that I have made these liberal quotations.  Apart from
their literary merit, they have a special interest for the readers of The Patience of Hope,
as more fully illustrating the writer's personal experience and aspirations.

It has been suggested by a friend that it is barely possible that an objection may be urged
against the following treatise, as against all books of a like character, that its tendency
is to isolate the individual from his race, and to nourish an exclusive and purely selfish
personal solicitude; that its piety is self-absorbent, and that it does not take sufficiently
into account active duties and charities, and the love of the neighbor so strikingly illustrated
by the Divine Master in His life and teachings.  This objection, if valid, would be a fatal
one.  For, of a truth, there can be no meaner type of human selfishness than that afforded
by him who, unmindful of the world of sin and suffering about him, occupies himself in the
pitiful business of saving his own soul, in the very spirit of the miser, watching over his
private hoard while his neighbors starve for lack of bread.  But surely the benevolent unrest,
the far-reaching sympathies and keen sensitiveness to the suffering of others, which so nobly
distinguish our present age, can have nothing to fear from a plea for personal holiness, patience,
hope, and resignation to the Divine will.  "The more piety, the more compassion," says Isaac
Taylor; and this is true, if we understand by piety, not self-concentred asceticism, but the
pure religion and undefiled which visits the widow and the fatherless, and yet keeps itself
unspotted from the world,--which deals justly, loves mercy, and yet walks humbly before God.
Self- scrutiny in the light of truth can do no harm to any one, least of all to the reformer
and philanthropist.  The spiritual warrior, like the young candidate for knighthood, may be
none the worse for his preparatory ordeal of watching all night by his armor.

Tauler in mediaeval times and Woolman in the last century are among the most earnest teachers
of the inward life and spiritual nature of Christianity, yet both were distinguished for practical
benevolence. They did not separate the two great commandments.  Tauler strove with equal intensity
of zeal to promote the temporal and the spiritual welfare of men.  In the dark and evil time
in which he lived, amidst the untold horrors of the "Black Plague," he illustrated by deeds
of charity and mercy his doctrine of disinterested benevolence.  Woolman's whole life was a
nobler Imitation of Christ than that fervid rhapsody of monastic piety which bears the name.

How faithful, yet, withal, how full of kindness, were his rebukes of those who refused labor
its just reward, and ground the faces of the poor?  How deep and entire was his sympathy with
overtasked and ill-paid laborers; with wet and illprovided sailors; with poor wretches blaspheming
in the mines, because oppression had made them mad; with the dyers plying their unhealthful
trade to minister to luxury and pride; with the tenant wearing out his life in the service
of a hard landlord; and with the slave sighing over his unrequited toil!  What a significance
there was in his vision of the "dull, gloomy mass" which appeared before him, darkening half
the heavens, and which he was told was "human beings in as great misery as they could be and
live; and he was mixed with them, and henceforth he might not consider himself a distinct and
separate being"!  His saintliness was wholly unconscious; he seems never to have thought himself
any nearer to the tender heart of God than the most miserable sinner to whom his compassion
extended.  As he did not live, so neither did he die to himself.  His prayer upon his death-bed
was for others rather than himself; its beautiful humility and simple trust were marred by
no sensual imagery of crowns and harps and golden streets, and personal beatific exaltations;
but tender and touching concern for suffering humanity, relieved only by the thought of the
paternity of God, and of His love and omnipotence, alone found utterance in ever-memorable words.

In view of the troubled state of the country and the intense preoccupation of the public mind,
I have had some hesitation in offering this volume to its publishers.  But, on further reflection,
it has seemed to me that it might supply a want felt by many among us; that, in the chaos of
civil strife and the shadow of mourning which rests over the land, the contemplation of "things
unseen which are eternal" might not be unwelcome; that, when the foundations of human confidence
are shaken, and the trust in man proves vain, there might be glad listeners to a voice calling
from the outward and the temporal to the inward and the spiritual; from the troubles and perplexities
of time, to the eternal quietness which God giveth.  I cannot but believe that, in the heat
and glare through which we are passing, this book will not invite in vain to the calm, sweet
shadows of holy meditation, grateful as the green wings of the bird to Thalaba in the desert;
and thus afford something of consolation to the bereaved, and of strength to the weary.

AMESBURY, 1st 6th mo., 1862.

                         THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS.

The following letters were addressed to the Editor of the Friends' Review in Philadelphia,
in reference to certain changes of principle and practice in the Society then beginning to
be observable, but which have since more than justified the writer's fears and solicitude.

I.

                         AMESBURY, 2d mo., 1870.

TO THE EDITOR OF THE REVIEW.

ESTEEMED FRIEND,--If I have been hitherto a silent, I have not been an indifferent, spectator
of the movements now going on in our religious Society.  Perhaps from lack of faith, I have
been quite too solicitous concerning them, and too much afraid that in grasping after new things
we may let go of old things too precious to be lost.  Hence I have been pleased to see from
time to time in thy paper very timely and fitting articles upon a Hired Ministry and Silent
Worship.

The present age is one of sensation and excitement, of extreme measures and opinions, of impatience
of all slow results.  The world about us moves with accelerated impulse, and we move with it:
the rest we have enjoyed, whether true or false, is broken; the title-deeds of our opinions,
the reason of our practices, are demanded.  Our very right to exist as a distinct society is
questioned.  Our old literature--the precious journals and biographies of early and later Friends--is
comparatively neglected for sensational and dogmatic publications.  We bear complaints of a
want of educated ministers; the utility of silent meetings is denied, and praying and preaching
regarded as matters of will and option.  There is a growing desire for experimenting upon the
dogmas and expedients and practices of other sects.  I speak only of admitted facts, and not
for the purpose of censure or complaint.  No one has less right than myself to indulge in heresy-hunting
or impatience of minor differences of opinion.  If my dear friends can bear with me, I shall
not find it a hard task to bear with them.

But for myself I prefer the old ways.  With the broadest possible tolerance for all honest
seekers after truth! I love the Society of Friends.  My life has been nearly spent in laboring
with those of other sects in behalf of the suffering and enslaved; and I have never felt like
quarrelling with Orthodox or Unitarians, who were willing to pull with me, side by side, at
the rope of Reform.  A very large proportion of my dearest personal friends are outside of
our communion; and I have learned with John Woolman to find "no narrowness respecting sects
and opinions." But after a kindly and candid survey of them all, I turn to my own Society,
thankful to the Divine Providence which placed me where I am; and with an unshaken faith in
the one distinctive doctrine of Quakerism-- the Light within--the immanence of the Divine Spirit
in Christianity.  I cheerfully recognize and bear testimony to the good works and lives of
those who widely differ in faith and practice; but I have seen no truer types of Christianity,
no better men and women, than I have known and still know among those who not blindly, but
intelligently, hold the doctrines and maintain the testimonies of our early Friends.  I am
not blind to the shortcomings of Friends.  I know how much we have lost by narrowness and coldness
and inactivity, the overestimate of external observances, the neglect of our own proper work
while acting as conscience-keepers for others.  We have not, as a society, been active enough
in those simple duties which we owe to our suffering fellow- creatures, in that abundant labor
of love and self-denial which is never out of place.  Perhaps our divisions and dissensions
might have been spared us if we had been less "at ease in Zion."  It is in the decline of practical
righteousness that men are most likely to contend with each other for dogma and ritual, for
shadow and letter, instead of substance and spirit.  Hence I rejoice in every sign of increased
activity in doing good among us, in the precious opportunities afforded of working with the
Divine Providence for the Freedmen and Indians; since the more we do, in the true spirit of
the gospel, for others, the more we shall really do for ourselves.  There is no danger of lack
of work for those who, with an eye single to the guidance of Truth, look for a place in God's
vineyard; the great work which the founders of our Society began is not yet done; the mission
of Friends is not accomplished, and will not be until this world of ours, now full of sin and
suffering, shall take up, in jubilant thanksgiving, the song of the Advent: "Glory to God in
the highest! Peace on earth and good-will to men!"

It is charged that our Society lacks freedom and adaptation to the age in which we live, that
there is a repression of individuality and manliness among us.  I am not prepared to deny it
in certain respects.  But, if we look at the matter closely, we shall see that the cause is
not in the central truth of Quakerism, but in a failure to rightly comprehend it; in an attempt
to fetter with forms and hedge about with dogmas that great law of Christian liberty, which
I believe affords ample scope for the highest spiritual aspirations and the broadest philanthropy.
If we did but realize it, we are "set in a large place."

"We may do all we will save wickedness."

"Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty."

Quakerism, in the light of its great original truth, is "exceeding broad."  As interpreted
by Penn and Barclay it is the most liberal and catholic of faiths.  If we are not free, generous,
tolerant, if we are not up to or above the level of the age in good works, in culture and love
of beauty, order and fitness, if we are not the ready recipients of the truths of science and
philosophy,--in a word, if we are not full- grown men and Christians, the fault is not in Quakerism,
but in ourselves.  We shall gain nothing by aping the customs and trying to adjust ourselves
to the creeds of other sects.  By so doing we make at the best a very awkward combination,
and just as far as it is successful, it is at the expense of much that is vital in our old
faith.  If, for instance, I could bring myself to believe a hired ministry and a written creed
essential to my moral and spiritual well-being, I think I should prefer to sit down at once
under such teachers as Bushnell and Beecher, the like of whom in Biblical knowledge, ecclesiastical
learning, and intellectual power, we are not likely to manufacture by half a century of theological
manipulation in a Quaker "school of the prophets."  If I must go into the market and buy my
preaching, I should naturally seek the best article on sale, without regard to the label attached
to it.

I am not insensible of the need of spiritual renovation in our Society. I feel and confess
my own deficiencies as an individual member.  And I bear a willing testimony to the zeal and
devotion of some dear friends, who, lamenting the low condition and worldliness too apparent
among us, seek to awaken a stronger religious life by the partial adoption of the practices,
forms, and creeds of more demonstrative sects.  The great apparent activity of these sects
seems to them to contrast very strongly with our quietness and reticence; and they do not always
pause to inquire whether the result of this activity is a truer type of practical Christianity
than is found in our select gatherings.  I think I understand these brethren; to some extent
I have sympathized with them.

In conclusion, let me say that I have given this expression of my opinions with some degree
of hesitation, being very sensible that I have neither the right nor the qualification to speak
for a society whose doctrines and testimonies commend themselves to my heart and head, whose
history is rich with the precious legacy of holy lives, and of whose usefulness as a moral
and spiritual Force in the world I am fully assured.

II.

Having received several letters from dear friends in various sections suggested by a recent
communication in thy paper, and not having time or health to answer them in detail, will thou
permit me in this way to acknowledge them, and to say to the writers that I am deeply sensible
of the Christian love and personal good-will to myself, which, whether in commendation or dissent,
they manifest?  I think I may say in truth that my letter was written in no sectarian or party
spirit, but simply to express a solicitude, which, whether groundless or not, was nevertheless
real.  I am, from principle, disinclined to doctrinal disputations and so-called religious
controversies, which only tend to separate and disunite.  We have had too many divisions already.
I intended no censure of dear brethren whose zeal and devotion command my sympathy, notwithstanding
I may not be able to see with them in all respects.  The domain of individual conscience is
to me very sacred; and it seems the part of Christian charity to make a large allowance for
varying experiences; mental characteristics, and temperaments, as well as for that youthful
enthusiasm which, if sometimes misdirected, has often been instrumental in infusing a fresher
life into the body of religious profession.  It is too much to expect that we can maintain
an entire uniformity in the expression of truths in which we substantially agree; and we should
be careful that a rightful concern for "the form of sound words" does not become what William
Penn calls "verbal orthodoxy."  We must consider that the same accepted truth looks somewhat
differently from different points of vision.  Knowing our own weaknesses and limitations, we
must bear in mind that human creeds, speculations, expositions, and interpretations of the
Divine plan are but the faint and feeble glimpses of finite creatures into the infinite mysteries
of God.

         "They are but broken lights of Thee,
          And Thou, O Lord, art more than they."

Differing, as we do, more or less as to means and methods, if we indeed have the "mind of Christ,"
we shall rejoice in whatever of good is really accomplished, although by somewhat different
instrumentalities than those which we feel ourselves free to make use of, remembering that
our Lord rebuked the narrowness and partisanship of His disciples by assuring them that they
that were not against Him were for Him.

It would, nevertheless, give me great satisfaction to know, as thy kindly expressed editorial
comments seem to intimate, that I have somewhat overestimated the tendencies of things in our
Society.  I have no pride of opinion which would prevent me from confessing with thankfulness
my error of judgment.  In any event, it can, I think, do no harm to repeat my deep conviction
that we may all labor, in the ability given us, for our own moral and spiritual well-being,
and that of our fellow-creatures, without laying aside the principles and practice of our religious
Society.  I believe so much of liberty is our right as well as our privilege, and that we need
not really overstep our bounds for the performance of any duty which may be required of us.
When truly called to contemplate broader fields of labor, we shall find the walls about us,
like the horizon seen from higher levels, expanding indeed, but nowhere broken.

