"Why, yes, dat's so; I--I'd done forgot it.  A harem's a bo'd'n-house, I reck'n.  Mos' likely
dey has rackety times in de nussery.  En I reck'n de wives quarrels considable; en dat 'crease
de racket.  Yit dey say Sollermun de wises' man dat ever live'.  I doan' take no stock in dat.
Bekase why: would a wise man want to live in de mids' er sich a blim-blammin' all de time?
No--'deed he wouldn't.  A wise man 'ud take en buil' a biler-factry; en den he could shet DOWN
de biler-factry when he want to res'."

"Well, but he WAS the wisest man, anyway; because the widow she told me so, her own self."

"I doan k'yer what de widder say, he WARN'T no wise man nuther.  He had some er de dad-fetchedes'
ways I ever see.  Does you know 'bout dat chile dat he 'uz gwyne to chop in two?"

"Yes, the widow told me all about it."

"WELL, den!  Warn' dat de beatenes' notion in de worl'?  You jes' take en look at it a minute.
Dah's de stump, dah--dat's one er de women; heah's you--dat's de yuther one; I's Sollermun;
en dish yer dollar bill's de chile.  Bofe un you claims it.  What does I do?  Does I shin aroun'
mongs' de neighbors en fine out which un you de bill DO b'long to, en han' it over to de right
one, all safe en soun', de way dat anybody dat had any gumption would?  No; I take en whack
de bill in TWO, en give half un it to you, en de yuther half to de yuther woman.  Dat's de
way Sollermun was gwyne to do wid de chile.  Now I want to ast you:  what's de use er dat half
a bill?--can't buy noth'n wid it.  En what use is a half a chile?  I wouldn' give a dern for
a million un um."

"But hang it, Jim, you've clean missed the point--blame it, you've missed it a thousand mile."

"Who?  Me?  Go 'long.  Doan' talk to me 'bout yo' pints.  I reck'n I knows sense when I sees
it; en dey ain' no sense in sich doin's as dat. De 'spute warn't 'bout a half a chile, de 'spute
was 'bout a whole chile; en de man dat think he kin settle a 'spute 'bout a whole chile wid
a half a chile doan' know enough to come in out'n de rain.  Doan' talk to me 'bout Sollermun,
Huck, I knows him by de back."

"But I tell you you don't get the point."

"Blame de point!  I reck'n I knows what I knows.  En mine you, de REAL pint is down furder--it's
down deeper.  It lays in de way Sollermun was raised.  You take a man dat's got on'y one or
two chillen; is dat man gwyne to be waseful o' chillen?  No, he ain't; he can't 'ford it. 
HE know how to value 'em.  But you take a man dat's got 'bout five million chillen runnin'
roun' de house, en it's diffunt. If a new and revised edition.

12mo.$ 1.50$ WÖHLER.-- a Plenty-book of two
Mineral Analysis.$ in two F. WÖHLER, Professor of Chemistry of the T
by Göttingen. Edited in HENRY B. NASON, Professor of Chemistry by
the Institute, Troy, new York.  He was the most down on Solomon of any nigger I ever see.  So I went to talking
about other kings, and let Solomon slide.  I told about Louis Sixteenth that got his head cut
off in France long time ago; and about his little boy the dolphin, that would a been a king,
but they took and shut him up in jail, and some say he died there.

"Po' little chap."

"But some says he got out and got away, and come to America."

"Dat's good!  But he'll be pooty lonesome--dey ain' no kings here, is dey, Huck?"

"No."

"Den he cain't git no situation.  What he gwyne to do?"

"Well, I don't know.  Some of them gets on the police, and some of them learns people how to
talk French."

"Why, Huck, doan' de French people talk de same way we does?"

"NO, Jim; you couldn't understand a word they said--not a single word."

"Well, now, I be ding-busted!  How do dat come?"

"I don't know; but it's so.  I got some of their jabber out of a book. S'pose a man was to
come to you and say Polly-voo-franzy--what would you think?"

"I wouldn' think nuff'n; I'd take en bust him over de head--dat is, if he warn't white.  I
wouldn't 'low no nigger to call me dat."

"Shucks, it ain't calling you anything.  It's only saying, do you know how to talk French?"

"Well, den, why couldn't he SAY it?"

"Why, he IS a-saying it.  That's a Frenchman's WAY of saying it."

"Well, it's a blame ridicklous way, en I doan' want to hear no mo' 'bout it.  Dey ain' no sense
in it."

"Looky here, Jim; does a cat talk like we do?"

"No, a cat don't."

"Well, does a cow?"

"No, a cow don't, nuther."

"Does a cat talk like a cow, or a cow talk like a cat?"

"No, dey don't."

"It's natural and right for 'em to talk different from each other, ain't it?"

"Course."

"And ain't it natural and right for a cat and a cow to talk different from US?"

"Why, mos' sholy it is."

"Well, then, why ain't it natural and right for a FRENCHMAN to talk different from us?  You
answer me that."

"Is a cat a man, Huck?"

"No."

"Well, den, dey ain't no sense in a cat talkin' like a man.  Is a cow a man?--er is a cow a cat?"

"No, she ain't either of them."

"Well, den, she ain't got no business to talk like either one er the yuther of 'em.  Is a Frenchman
a man?"

"Yes."

"WELL, den!  Dad blame it, why doan' he TALK like a man?  You answer me DAT!"

I see it warn't no use wasting words--you can't learn a nigger to argue. So I quit.

CHAPTER XV.

WE judged that three nights more would fetch us to Cairo, at the bottom of Illinois, where
the Ohio River comes in, and that was what we was after.  We would sell the raft and get on
a steamboat and go way up the Ohio amongst the free States, and then be out of trouble.

Well, the second night a fog begun to come on, and we made for a towhead to tie to, for it
wouldn't do to try to run in a fog; but when I paddled ahead in the canoe, with the line to
make fast, there warn't anything but little saplings to tie to.  I passed the line around one
of them right on the edge of the cut bank, but there was a stiff current, and the raft come
booming down so lively she tore it out by the roots and away she went.  I see the fog closing
down, and it made me so sick and scared I couldn't budge for most a half a minute it seemed
to me--and then there warn't no raft in sight; you couldn't see twenty yards.  I jumped into
the canoe and run back to the stern, and grabbed the paddle and set her back a stroke.  But
she didn't come.  I was in such a hurry I hadn't untied her.  I got up and tried to untie her,
but I was so excited my hands shook so I couldn't hardly do anything with them.

As soon as I got started I took out after the raft, hot and heavy, right down the towhead.
That was all right as far as it went, but the towhead warn't sixty yards long, and the minute
I flew by the foot of it I shot out into the solid white fog, and hadn't no more idea which
way I was going than a dead man.

Thinks I, it won't do to paddle; first I know I'll run into the bank or a towhead or something;
I got to set still and float, and yet it's mighty fidgety business to have to hold your hands
still at such a time.  I whooped and listened.  Away down there somewheres I hears a small
whoop, and up comes my spirits.  I went tearing after it, listening sharp to hear it again.
The next time it come I see I warn't heading for it, but heading away to the right of it. 
And the next time I was heading away to the left of it--and not gaining on it much either,
for I was flying around, this way and that and t'other, but it was going straight ahead all
the time.

I did wish the fool would think to beat a tin pan, and beat it all the time, but he never did,
and it was the still places between the whoops that was making the trouble for me.  Well, I
fought along, and directly I hears the whoop BEHIND me.  I was tangled good now.  That was
somebody else's whoop, or else I was turned around.

I throwed the paddle down.  I heard the whoop again; it was behind me yet, but in a different
place; it kept coming, and kept changing its place, and I kept answering, till by and by it
was in front of me again, and I knowed the current had swung the canoe's head down-stream,
and I was all right if that was Jim and not some other raftsman hollering.  I couldn't tell
nothing about voices in a fog, for nothing don't look natural nor sound natural in a fog.

The whooping went on, and in about a minute I come a-booming down on a cut bank with smoky
ghosts of big trees on it, and the current throwed me off to the left and shot by, amongst
a lot of snags that fairly roared, the currrent was tearing by them so swift.

In another second or two it was solid white and still again.  I set perfectly still then, listening
to my heart thump, and I reckon I didn't draw a breath while it thumped a hundred.

I just give up then.  I knowed what the matter was.  That cut bank was an island, and Jim had
gone down t'other side of it.  It warn't no towhead that you could float by in ten minutes.
It had the big timber of a regular island; it might be five or six miles long and more than
half a mile wide.

I kept quiet, with my ears cocked, about fifteen minutes, I reckon.  I was floating along,
of course, four or five miles an hour; but you don't ever think of that.  No, you FEEL like
you are laying dead still on the water; and if a little glimpse of a snag slips by you don't
think to yourself how fast YOU'RE going, but you catch your breath and think, my! how that
snag's tearing along.  If you think it ain't dismal and lonesome out in a fog that way by yourself
in the night, you try it once--you'll see.

Next, for about a half an hour, I whoops now and then; at last I hears the answer a long ways
off, and tries to follow it, but I couldn't do it, and directly I judged I'd got into a nest
of towheads, for I had little dim glimpses of them on both sides of me--sometimes just a narrow
channel between, and some that I couldn't see I knowed was there because I'd hear the wash
of the current against the old dead brush and trash that hung over the banks.  Well, I warn't
long loosing the whoops down amongst the towheads; and I only tried to chase them a little
while, anyway, because it was worse than chasing a Jack-o'-lantern.  You never knowed a sound
dodge around so, and swap places so quick and so much.

I had to claw away from the bank pretty lively four or five times, to keep from knocking the
islands out of the river; and so I judged the raft must be butting into the bank every now
and then, or else it would get further ahead and clear out of hearing--it was floating a little
faster than what I was.

Well, I seemed to be in the open river again by and by, but I couldn't hear no sign of a whoop
nowheres.  I reckoned Jim had fetched up on a snag, maybe, and it was all up with him.  I was
good and tired, so I laid down in the canoe and said I wouldn't bother no more.  I didn't want
to go to sleep, of course; but I was so sleepy I couldn't help it; so I thought I would take
jest one little cat-nap.

But I reckon it was more than a cat-nap, for when I waked up the stars was shining bright,
the fog was all gone, and I was spinning down a big bend stern first.  First I didn't know
where I was; I thought I was dreaming; and when things began to come back to me they seemed
to come up dim out of last week.

It was a monstrous big river here, with the tallest and the thickest kind of timber on both
banks; just a solid wall, as well as I could see by the stars.  I looked away down-stream,
and seen a black speck on the water. I took after it; but when I got to it it warn't nothing
but a couple of sawlogs made fast together.  Then I see another speck, and chased that; then
another, and this time I was right.  It was the raft.

When I got to it Jim was setting there with his head down between his knees, asleep, with his
right arm hanging over the steering-oar.  The other oar was smashed off, and the raft was littered
up with leaves and branches and dirt.  So she'd had a rough time.

I made fast and laid down under Jim's nose on the raft, and began to gap, and stretch my fists
out against Jim, and says:

"Hello, Jim, have I been asleep?  Why didn't you stir me up?"

"Goodness gracious, is dat you, Huck?  En you ain' dead--you ain' drownded--you's back agin?
It's too good for true, honey, it's too good for true. Lemme look at you chile, lemme feel
o' you.  No, you ain' dead! you's back agin, 'live en soun', jis de same ole Huck--de same
ole Huck, thanks to goodness!"

"What's the matter with you, Jim?  You been a-drinking?"

"Drinkin'?  Has I ben a-drinkin'?  Has I had a chance to be a-drinkin'?"

"Well, then, what makes you talk so wild?"

"How does I talk wild?"

"HOW?  Why, hain't you been talking about my coming back, and all that stuff, as if I'd been
gone away?"

"Huck--Huck Finn, you look me in de eye; look me in de eye.  HAIN'T you ben gone away?"

"Gone away?  Why, what in the nation do you mean?  I hain't been gone anywheres.  Where would
I go to?"

"Well, looky here, boss, dey's sumf'n wrong, dey is.  Is I ME, or who IS I? Is I heah, or whah
IS I?  Now dat's what I wants to know."

"Well, I think you're here, plain enough, but I think you're a tangle-headed old fool, Jim."

"I is, is I?  Well, you answer me dis:  Didn't you tote out de line in de canoe fer to make
fas' to de tow-head?"

"No, I didn't.  What tow-head?  I hain't see no tow-head."

"You hain't seen no towhead?  Looky here, didn't de line pull loose en de raf' go a-hummin'
down de river, en leave you en de canoe behine in de fog?"

"What fog?"

"Why, de fog!--de fog dat's been aroun' all night.  En didn't you whoop, en didn't I whoop,
tell we got mix' up in de islands en one un us got los' en t'other one was jis' as good as
los', 'kase he didn' know whah he wuz? En didn't I bust up agin a lot er dem islands en have
a turrible time en mos' git drownded?  Now ain' dat so, boss--ain't it so?  You answer me dat."

"Well, this is too many for me, Jim.  I hain't seen no fog, nor no islands, nor no troubles,
nor nothing. EXAMPLES IN all Chorus-SHADING AND DRAWINGS FOR Sleep-SHADED ENGRAVINGS.

Although in workshop, line-shadow is rarely employed, yet where a design
rather than the particular minutes of construction to be shown, line-shading
is a valuable and accessory.

"Well, hang it all, you did dream it, because there didn't any of it happen."

"But, Huck, it's all jis' as plain to me as--"

"It don't make no difference how plain it is; there ain't nothing in it. I know, because I've
been here all the time."

Jim didn't say nothing for about five minutes, but set there studying over it.  Then he says:

"Well, den, I reck'n I did dream it, Huck; but dog my cats ef it ain't de powerfullest dream
I ever see.  En I hain't ever had no dream b'fo' dat's tired me like dis one."

"Oh, well, that's all right, because a dream does tire a body like everything sometimes.  But
this one was a staving dream; tell me all about it, Jim."

