Nevertheless the good man gave them a letter to the Reverend Master Alworthy, singing clerk
at Saint Paul's Cathedral, telling Ambrose it might serve them in case they failed to find
their uncle, or if my Lord of York's household should not be in town.  He likewise gave them
a recommendation which would procure them a night's lodging at the Grange, and after the morning's
mass and meat, sped them on their way with his blessing, muttering to himself, "That elder
one might have been the staff of mine age!  Pity on him to be lost in the great and evil City!
Yet 'tis a good lad to follow that fiery spark his brother.  Tanquam agnus inter lupes.  Alack!"

CHAPTER FOUR.

A HERO'S FALL.

"These four came all afront and mainly made at me.  I made no more ado, but took their seven
points on my target--thus--"

Shakespeare.

The journey to Alton was eventless.  It was slow, for the day was a broiling one, and the young
foresters missed their oaks and beeches, as they toiled over the chalk downs that rose and
sank in endless succession; though they would hardly have slackened their pace if it had not
been for poor old Spring, who was sorely distressed by the heat and the want of water on the
downs.  Every now and then he lay down, panting distressfully, with his tongue hanging out,
and his young masters always waited for him, often themselves not sorry to rest in the fragment
of shade from a solitary thorn or juniper.

The track was plain enough, and there were hamlets at long intervals. Flocks of sheep fed on
the short grass, but there was no approaching the shepherds, as they and their dogs regarded
Spring as an enemy, to be received with clamour, stones, and teeth, in spite of the dejected
looks which might have acquitted him of evil intentions.

The travellers reached Alton in the cool of the evening, and were kindly received by a monk,
who had charge of a grange just outside the little town, near one of the springs of the River Wey.

The next day's journey was a pleasanter one, for there was more of wood and heather, and they
had to skirt round the marshy borders of various bogs.  Spring was happier, being able to stop
and lap whenever he would, and the whole scene was less unfriendly to them.  But they scarcely
made speed enough, for they were still among tall whins and stiff scrub of heather when the
sun began to get low, gorgeously lighting the tall plumes of golden broom, and they had their
doubts whether they might not be off the track; but in such weather, there was nothing alarming
in spending a night out of doors, if only they had something for supper. Stephen took a bolt
from the purse at his girdle, and bent his crossbow, so as to be ready in case a rabbit sprang
out, or a duck flew up from the marshes.

A small thicket of trees was in sight, and they were making for it, when sounds of angry voices
were heard, and Spring, bristling up the mane on his neck, and giving a few premonitory fierce
growls like thunder, bounded forward as though he had been seven years younger.  Stephen darted
after him, Ambrose rushed after Stephen, and breaking through the trees, they beheld the dog
at the throat of one of three men.  As they came on the scene, the dog was torn down and hurled
aside, giving a howl of agony, which infuriated his master.  Letting fly his crossbow bolt
full at the fellow's face, he dashed on, reckless of odds, waving his knotted stick, and shouting
with rage.  Ambrose, though more aware of the madness of such an assault, still hurried to
his support, and was amazed as well as relieved to find the charge effectual.  Without waiting
to return a blow, the miscreants took to their heels, and Stephen, seeing nothing but his dog,
dropped on his knees beside the quivering creature, from whose neck blood was fast pouring.
One glance of the faithful wistful eyes, one feeble movement of the expressive tail, and Spring
had made his last farewell!  That was all Stephen was conscious of; but Ambrose could hear
the cry, "Good sirs, good lads, set me free!" and was aware of a portly form bound to a tree.
As he cut the rope with his knife, the rescued traveller hurried out thanks and demands--"Where
are the rest of you?" and on the reply that there were no more, proceeded, "Then we must on,
on at once, or the villains will return!  They must have thought you had a band of hunters
behind you. Two furlongs hence, and we shall be safe in the hostel at Dogmersfield. Come on,
my boy," to Stephen, "the brave hound is quite dead, more's the pity.  Thou canst do no more
for him, and we shall soon be in his case if we dally here."

"I cannot cannot leave him thus," sobbed Stephen, who had the loving old head on his knees.
"Ambrose! stay, we must bring him.  There, his tail wagged!  If the blood were staunched--"

"Stephen!  Indeed he is stone dead!  Were he our brother we could not do otherwise," reasoned
Ambrose, forcibly dragging his brother to his feet. "Go on we must.  Wouldst have us all slaughtered
for his sake?  Come! The rogues will be upon us anon.  Spring saved this good man's life. Undo
not his work.  See.  Is yonder your horse, sir?  This way, Stevie!"

The instinct of catching the horse roused Stephen, and it was soon accomplished, for the steed
was a plump, docile, city-bred palfrey, with dapple-grey flanks like well-stuffed satin pincushions,
by no means resembling the shaggy Forest ponies of the boys' experience, but quite astray in
the heath, and ready to come at the master's whistle; and call of "Soh Soh!--now Poppet!" 
Stephen caught the bridle, and Ambrose helped the burgess into the saddle.  "Now, good boys,"
he said, "each of you lay a hand on my pommel.  We can make good speed ere the rascals find
out our scant numbers."

"You would make better speed without us, sir," said Stephen, hankering to remain beside poor
Spring.

"Eye think Giles Headley the man to leave two children, that have maybe saved my life as well
as my purse, to bear the malice of the robbers?" demanded the burgess angrily.  "That were
like those fellows of mine who have shown their heels and left their master strapped to a tree!
Thou! thou! what's thy name, that hast the most wit, bring thy brother, unless thou wouldst
have him laid by the side of his dog."

Stephen was forced to comply, and run by Poppet's side, though his eyes were so full of tears
that he could not see his way, even when the pace slackened, and in the twilight they found
themselves among houses and gardens, and thus in safety, the lights of an inn shining not far off.

A figure came out in the road to meet them, crying, "Master! master! is it you? and without
scathe?  Oh, the saints be praised!"

"Ay, Tibble, 'tis I and no other, thanks to the saints and to these brave lads!  What, man,
I blame thee not, I know thou canst not strike; but where be the rest?"

"In the inn, sir.  I strove to call up the hue and cry to come to the rescue, but the cowardly
hinds were afraid of the thieves, and not one would come forth."

"I wish they may not be in league with them," said Master Headley. "See!  I was delivered--ay,
and in time to save my purse, by these twain and their good dog.  Are ye from these parts,
my fair lads?"

"We be journeying from the New Forest to London," said Ambrose.  "The poor dog heard the tumult,
and leapt to your aid, sir, and we made after him."

"'Twas the saints sent him!" was the fervent answer.

"And," (with a lifting of the cap), "I hereby vow to Saint Julian a hound of solid bronze a
foot in length, with a collar of silver, to his shrine in Saint Faith's, in token of my deliverance
in body and goods! To London are ye bound?  Then will we journey on together!"

They were by this time near the porch of a large country hostel, from the doors and large bay
window of which light streamed out.  And as the casement was open, those without could both
see and hear all that was passing within.

The table was laid for supper, and in the place of honour sat a youth of some seventeen or
eighteen years, gaily dressed, with a little feather curling over his crimson cap, and thus
discoursing:--

"Yea, my good host, two of the rogues bear my tokens, besides him whom I felled to the earth.
He came on at me with his sword, but I had my point ready for him; and down he went before
me like an ox.  Then came on another, but him I dealt with by the back stroke as used in the
tilt- yard at Clarendon."

"I trow we shall know him again, sir.  Holy saints to think such rascals should haunt so nigh
us," the hostess was exclaiming.  "Pity for the poor goodman, Master Headley.  A portly burgher
was he, friendly of tongue and free of purse.  I well remember him when he went forth on his
way to Salisbury, little thinking, poor soul, what was before him.  And is he truly sped?"

"I tell thee, good woman, I saw him go down before three of their pikes. What more could I
do but drive my horse over the nearest rogue who was rifling him?"

"If he were still alive--which Our Lady grant!--the knaves will hold him to ransom," quoth
the host, as he placed a tankard on the table.

"I am afraid he is past," said the youth, shaking his head.  "But an if he be still in the
rogues' hands and living, I will get me on to his house in Cheapside, and arrange with his
mother to find the needful sum, as befits me, I being his heir and about to wed his daughter.
However, I shall do all that in me lies to get the poor old seignior out of the hands of the
rogues.  Saints defend me!"

"The poor old seignior is much beholden to thee," said Master Headley, advancing amid a clamour
of exclamations from three or four serving-men or grooms, one protesting that he thought his
master was with him, another that his horse ran away with him, one showing an arm which was
actually being bound up, and the youth declaring that he rode off to bring help.

"Well wast thou bringing it," Master Headley answered.  "I might be still standing bound like
an eagle displayed, against yonder tree, for aught you fellows reeked."

"Nay, sir, the odds--" began the youth.

"Odds! such odds as were put to rout--by what, deem you?  These two striplings and one poor
hound.  Had but one of you had the heart of a sparrow, ye had not furnished a tale to be the
laugh of the Barbican and Cheapside.  Look well at them.  How old be you, my brave lads?"

"I shall be sixteen come Lammas day, and Stephen fifteen at Martinmas day, sir," said Ambrose;
"but verily we did nought.  We could have done nought had not the thieves thought more were
behind us."

"There are odds between going forward and backward," said Master Headley, dryly.  "Ha!  Art
hurt?  Thou bleedst," he exclaimed, laying his hand on Stephen's shoulder, and drawing him
to the light.

"'Tis no blood of mine," said Stephen, as Ambrose likewise came to join in the examination.
"It is my poor Spring's.  He took the coward's blow.  His was all the honour, and we have left
him there on the heath!" And he covered his face with his hands.

"Come, come, my good child," said Master Headley; "we will back to the place by times to-morrow
when rogues hide and honest men walk abroad. Thou shalt bury thine hound, as befits a good
warrior, on the battle- field.  I would fain mark his points for the effigy we will frame,
honest Tibble, for Saint Julian.  And mark ye, fellows, thou godson Giles, above all, who 'tis
that boast of their valour, and who 'tis that be modest of speech.  Yea, thanks, mine host.
Let us to a chamber, and give us water to wash away soil of travel and of fray, and then to
supper.  Young masters, ye are my guests.  Shame were it that Giles Headley let go farther
them that have, under Heaven and Saint Julian, saved him in life, limb, and purse."

The inn was large, being the resort of many travellers from the south, often of nobles and
knights riding to Parliament, and thus the brothers found themselves accommodated with a chamber,
where they could prepare for the meal, while Ambrose tried to console his brother by representing
that, after all, poor Spring had died gallantly, and with far less pain than if he had suffered
a wasting old age, besides being honoured for ever by his effigy in Saint Faith's, wherever
that might be, the idea which chiefly contributed to console his master.

The two boys appeared in the room of the inn looking so unlike the dusty, blood-stained pair
who had entered, that Master Headley took a second glance to convince himself that they were
the same, before beckoning them to seats on either side of him, saying that he must know more
of them, and bidding the host load their trenchers well from the grand fabric of beef-pasty
which had been set at the end of the board. The runaways, four or five in number, herded together
lower down, with a few travellers of lower degree, all except the youth who had been boasting
before their arrival, and who retained his seat at the board, thumping it with the handle of
his knife to show his impatience for the commencement of supper; and not far off sat Tibble,
the same who had hailed their arrival, a thin, slight, one-sided looking person, with a terrible
red withered scar on one cheek, drawing the corner of his mouth awry.  He, like Master Headley
himself, and the rest of his party were clad in red, guarded with white, and wore the cross
of Saint George on the white border of their flat crimson caps, being no doubt in the livery
of their Company.  The citizen himself, having in the meantime drawn his conclusions from the
air and gestures of the brothers, and their mode of dealing with their food, asked the usual
question in an affirmative tone, "Ye be of gentle blood, young sirs?"

To which they replied by giving their names, and explaining that they were journeying from
the New Forest to find their uncle in the train of the Archbishop of York.

"Birkenholt," said Tibble, meditatively.  "He beareth vert, a buck's head proper, on a chief
argent, two arrows in saltire.  Crest, a buck courant, pierced in the gorge by an arrow, all
proper."

To which the brothers returned by displaying the handles of their knives, both of which bore
the pierced and courant buck.

"Ay, ay," said the man.  "'Twill be found in our books, sir.  We painted the shield and new-crested
the morion the first year of my prenticeship, when the Earl of Richmond, the late King Harry
of blessed memory, had newly landed at Milford Haven."

"Verily," said Ambrose, "our uncle Richard Birkenholt fought at Bosworth under Sir Richard
Pole's banner."

"A tall and stalwart esquire, methinks," said Master Headley.  "Is he the kinsman you seek?"

"Not so, sir.  We visited him at Winchester, and found him sorely old and with failing wits.
We be on our way to our mother's brother, Master Harry Randall."

"Is he clerk or layman?  My Lord of York entertaineth enow of both," said Master Headley.

"Lay assuredly, sir," returned Stephen; "I trust to him to find me some preferment as page
or the like."

"Know'st thou the man, Tibble?" inquired the master.

"Not among the men-at-arms, sir," was the answer; "but there be a many of them whose right
names we never hear.  However, he will be easily found if my Lord of York be returned from
Windsor with his train."

"Then will we go forward together, my young Masters Birkenholt.  I am not going to part with
my doughty champions!"--patting Stephen's shoulder.  "Ye'd not think that these light-heeled
knaves belonged to the brave craft of armourers."

"Certainly not," thought the lads, whose notion of armourers was derived from the brawny blacksmith
of Lyndhurst, who sharpened their boar spears and shod their horses.  They made some kind of
assent, and Master Headley went on.  "These be the times.  This is what peace hath brought
us to!  I am called down to Salisbury to take charge of the goods, chattels, and estate of
my kinsman, Robert Headley--Saints rest his soul!--and to bring home yonder spark, my godson,
whose indentures have been made over to me.  And I may not ride a mile after sunset without
being set upon by a sort of robbers, who must have guessed over-well what a pack of cowards
they had to deal with."

"Sir," cried the younger Giles, "I swear to you that I struck right and left.  I did all that
man could do, but these rogues of serving-men, they fled, and dragged me along with them, and
I deemed you were of our company till we dismounted."

"Did you so?  Methought anon you saw me go down with three pikes in my breast.  Come, come,
godson Giles, speech will not mend it!  Thou art but a green, town-bred lad, a mother's darling,
and mayst be a brave man yet, only don't dread to tell the honest truth that you were afeard,
as many a better man might be."

The host chimed in with tales of the thieves and outlaws who then, and indeed for many later
generations, infested Bagshot heath, and the wild moorland tracks around.  He seemed to think
that the travellers had had a hair's-breadth escape, and that a few seconds' more delay might
have revealed the weakness of the rescuers and have been fatal to them.

However there was no danger so near the village in the morning, and, somewhat to Stephen's
annoyance, the whole place turned out to inspect the spot, and behold the burial of poor Spring,
who was found stretched on the heather, just as he had been left the night before.  He was
interred under the stunted oak where Master Headley had been tied. While the grave was dug
with a spade borrowed at the inn, Ambrose undertook to cut out the dog's name on the bark,
but he had hardly made the first incision when Tibble, the singed foreman, offered to do it
for him, and made a much more sightly inscription than he could have done. Master Headley's
sword was found honourably broken under the tree, and was reserved to form a base for his intended
ex voto.  He uttered the vow in due form like a funeral oration, when Stephen, with a swelling
heart, had laid the companion of his life in the little grave, which was speedily covered in.

CHAPTER FIVE.

THE DRAGON COURT.

  "A citizen
  Of credit and renown
  A trainband captain eke was he
  Of famous London town."
  Cowper.

In spite of his satisfaction at the honourable obsequies of his dog, Stephen Birkenholt would
fain have been independent, and thought it provoking and strange that every one should want
to direct his movements, and assume the charge of one so well able to take care of himself;
but he could not escape as he had done before from the Warden of Saint Elizabeth, for Ambrose
had readily accepted the proposal that they should travel in Master Headley's company, only
objecting that they were on foot; on which the good citizen hired a couple of hackneys for them.

Besides the two Giles Headleys, the party consisted of Tibble, the scarred and withered foreman,
two grooms, and two serving-men, all armed with the swords and bucklers of which they had made
so little use.  It appeared in process of time that the two namesakes, besides being godfather
and godson, were cousins, and that Robert, the father of the younger one, had, after his apprenticeship
in the paternal establishment at Salisbury, served for a couple of years in the London workshop
of his kinsman to learn the latest improvements in weapons.  This had laid the foundation of
a friendship which had lasted through life, though the London cousin had been as prosperous
as the country one had been the reverse.  The provincial trade in arms declined with the close
of the York and Lancaster wars.  Men were not permitted to turn from one handicraft to another,
and Robert Headley had neither aptitude nor resources.  His wife was vain and thriftless, and
he finally broke down under his difficulties, appointing by will his cousin to act as his executor,
and to take charge of his only son, who had served out half his time as apprentice to himself.
There had been delay until the peace with France had given the armourer some leisure for an
expedition to Salisbury, a serious undertaking for a London burgess, who had little about him
of the ancient northern weapon-smith, and had wanted to avail himself of the protection of
the suite of the Bishop of Salisbury, returning from Parliament.  He had spent some weeks in
disposing of his cousin's stock in trade, which was far too antiquated for the London market;
also of the premises, which were bought by an adjoining convent to extend its garden; and he
had divided the proceeds between the widow and children.  He had presided at the wedding of
the last daughter, with whom the mother was to reside, and was on his way back to London with
his godson, who had now become his apprentice.

Giles Headley the younger was a fine tall youth, but clumsy and untrained in the use of his
limbs, and he rode a large, powerful brown horse, which brooked no companionship, lashing out
with its shaggy hoofs at any of its kind that approached it, more especially at poor, plump,
mottled Poppet.  The men said he had insisted on retaining that, and no other, for his journey
to London, contrary to all advice, and he was obliged to ride foremost, alone in the middle
of the road; while Master Headley seemed to have an immense quantity of consultation to carry
on with his foreman, Tibble, whose quiet-looking brown animal was evidently on the best of
terms with Poppet.  By daylight Tibble looked even more sallow, lean, and sickly, and Stephen
could not help saying to the serving-man nearest to him, "Can such a weakling verily be an
armourer?"

"Yea, sir.  Wry-mouthed Tibble, as they call him, was a sturdy fellow till he got a fall against
the mouth of a furnace, and lay ten months in Saint Bartholomew's Spital, scarce moving hand
or foot.  He cannot wield a hammer, but he has a cunning hand for gilding, and coloured devices,
and is as good as Garter-king-at-arms himself for all bearings of knights and nobles."

"As we heard last night," said Stephen.

"Moreover in the spital he learnt to write and cast accompts like a very scrivener, and the
master trusts him more than any, except maybe Kit Smallbones, the head smith."

"What will Smallbones think of the new prentice!" said one of the other men.

"Prentice!  'Tis plain enough what sort of prentice the youth is like to be who beareth the
name of a master with one only daughter."

An emphatic grunt was the only answer, while Ambrose pondered on the good luck of some people,
who had their futures cut out for them with no trouble on their own part.

This day's ride was through more inhabited parts, and was esteemed less perilous.  They came
in sight of the Thames at Lambeth, but Master Headley, remembering how ill his beloved Poppet
had brooked the ferry, decided to keep to the south of the river by a causeway across Lambeth
marsh, which was just passable in high and dry summers, and which conducted them to a raised
road called Bankside, where they looked across to the towers of Westminster, and the Abbey
in its beauty dawned on the imagination of Stephen and Ambrose.  The royal standard floated
over the palace, whence Master Headley perceived that the King was there, and augured that
my Lord of York's meine would not be far to seek.  Then came broad green fields with young
corn growing, or hay waving for the scythe, the tents and booths of May Fair, and the beautiful
Market Cross in the midst of the village of Charing, while the Strand, immediately opposite,
began to be fringed with great monasteries within their ample gardens, with here and there
a nobleman's castellated house and terraced garden, with broad stone stairs leading to the Thames.

Barges and wherries plied up and down, the former often gaily canopied and propelled by livened
oarsmen, all plying their arms in unison, so that the vessel looked like some brilliant many-limbed
creature treading the water.  Presently appeared the heavy walls inclosing the City itself,
dominated by the tall openwork timber spire of Saint Paul's, with the four-square, four-turreted
Tower acting, as it has been well said, as a padlock to a chain, and the river's breadth spanned
by London bridge, a very street of houses built on the abutments.  Now, Bankside had houses
on each side of the road, and Wry-mouthed Tibble showed evident satisfaction when they turned
to cross the bridge, where they had to ride in single file, not without some refractoriness
on the part of young Headley's steed.

On they went, now along streets where each story of the tall houses projected over the last,
so that the gables seemed ready to meet; now beside walls of convent gardens, now past churches,
while the country lads felt bewildered with the numbers passing to and fro, and the air was
full of bells.

Cap after cap was lifted in greeting to Master Headley by burgess, artisan, or apprentice,
and many times did he draw Poppet's rein to exchange greetings and receive congratulations
on his return.  On reaching Saint Paul's Minster, he halted and bade the servants take home
the horses, and tell the mistress, with his dutiful greetings, that he should be at home anon,
and with guests.

"We must een return thanks for our safe journey and great deliverance," he said to his young
companions, and thrusting his arm into that of a russet-vested citizen, who met him at the
door, he walked into the cathedral, recounting his adventure.

The youths followed with some difficulty through the stream of loiterers in the nave, Giles
the younger elbowing and pushing so that several of the crowd turned to look at him, and it
was well that his kinsman soon astonished him by descending a stair into a crypt, with solid,
short, clustered columns, and high-pitched vaulting, fitted up as a separate church, namely
that of the parish of Saint Faith.  The great cathedral, having absorbed the site of the original
church, had given this crypt to the parishioners.  Here all was quiet and solemn, in marked
contrast to the hubbub in "Paul's Walk," above in the nave.  Against the eastern pillar of
one of the bays was a little altar, and the decorations included Saint Julian, the patron of
travellers, with his saltire doubly crossed, and his stag beside him.  Little ships, trees,
and wonderful enamelled representations of perils by robbers, field and flood, hung thickly
on Saint Julian's pillar, and on the wall and splay of the window beside it; and here, after
crossing himself, Master Headley rapidly repeated a Paternoster, and ratified his vow of presenting
a bronze image of the hound to whom he owed his rescue.  One of the clergy came up to register
the vow, and the good armourer proceeded to bespeak a mass of thanksgiving on the next morning,
also ten for the soul of Master John Birkenholt, late Verdurer of the New Forest in Hampshire--a
mode of showing his gratitude which the two sons highly appreciated.

Then, climbing up the steps again, and emerging from the cathedral by the west door, the boys
beheld a scene for which their experiences of Romsey, and even of Winchester, had by no means
prepared them.  It was five o'clock on a summer evening, so that the whole place was full of
stir.  Old women sat with baskets of rosaries and little crosses, or images of saints, on the
steps of the cathedral, while in the open space beyond, more than one horse was displaying
his paces for the benefit; of some undecided purchaser, who had been chaffering for hours in
Paul's Walk.  Merchants in the costume of their countries, Lombard, Spanish, Dutch, or French,
were walking away in pairs, attended by servants, from their Exchange, likewise in the nave.
Women, some alone, some protected by serving-men or apprentices, were returning from their
orisons, or, it might be, from their gossipings.  Priests and friars, as usual, pervaded everything,
and round the open space were galleried buildings with stalls beneath them, whence the holders
were removing their wares for the night.  The great octagonal structure of Paul's Cross stood
in the centre, and just beneath the stone pulpit, where the sermons were wont to be preached,
stood a man with a throng round him, declaiming a ballad at the top of his sing-song voice,
and causing much loud laughter by some ribaldry about monks and friars.

Master Headley turned aside as quickly as he could, through Paternoster Row, which was full
of stalls, where little black books, and larger sheets printed in black, letter, seemed the
staple commodities, and thence the burgess, keeping a heedful eye on his young companions among
all his greetings, entered the broader space of Cheapside, where numerous prentice lads seemed
to be playing at different sports after the labours of the day.

Passing under an archway surmounted by a dragon with shining scales, Master Headley entered
a paved courtyard, where the lads started at the figures of two knights in full armour, their
lances in rest, and their horses with housings down to their hoofs, apparently about to charge
any intruder.  But at that moment there was a shriek of joy, and out from the scarlet and azure
petticoats of the nearest steed, there darted a little girl, crying, "Father! father!" and
in an instant she was lifted in Master Headley's arms, and was clinging round his neck, while
he kissed and blessed her, and as he set her on her feet, he said, "Here, Dennet, greet thy
cousin Giles Headley, and these two brave young gentlemen.  Greet them like a courteous maiden,
or they will think thee a little town mouse."

In truth the child had a pointed little visage, and bright brown eyes, somewhat like a mouse,
but it was a very sweet face that she lifted obediently to be kissed not only by the kinsman,
but by the two guests. Her father meantime was answering with nods to the respectful welcomes
of the workmen, who thronged out below, and their wives looking down from the galleries above;
while Poppet and the other horses were being rubbed down after their journey.

The ground-floor of the buildings surrounding the oblong court seemed to be entirely occupied
by forges, workshops, warehouses and stables. Above, were open railed galleries, with outside
stairs at intervals, giving access to the habitations of the workpeople on three sides.  The
fourth, opposite to the entrance, had a much handsomer, broad, stone stair, adorned on one
side with a stone figure of the princess fleeing from the dragon, and on the other of Saint
George piercing the monster's open mouth with his lance, the scaly convolutions of the two
dragons forming the supports of the handrail on either side.  Here stood, cap in hand, showing
his thick curly hair, and with open front, displaying a huge hairy chest, a giant figure, whom
his master greeted as Kit Smallbones, inquiring whether all had gone well during his absence.

"'Tis time you were back, sir, for there's a great tilting-match on hand for the Lady Mary's
wedding.  Here have been half the gentlemen in the Court after you, and my Lord of Buckingham
sent twice for you since Sunday, and once for Tibble Steelman, and his squire swore that if
you were not at his bidding before noon to-morrow, he would have his new suit of Master Hillyer
of the Eagle."

"He shall see me when it suiteth me," said Mr Headley coolly.  "He wotteth well that Hillyer
hath none who can burnish plate armour like Tibble here."

"Moreover the last iron we had from that knave Mepham is nought.  It works short under the hammer."

"That shall be seen to, Kit.  The rest of the budget to-morrow.  I must on to my mother."

For at the doorway, at the head of the stairs, there stood the still trim and active figure
of an old woman, with something of the mouse likeness seen in her grand-daughter, in the close
cap, high hat, and cloth dress, that sumptuary opinion, if not law, prescribed for the burgher
matron, a white apron, silver chain and bunch of keys at her girdle.  Due and loving greetings
passed between mother and son, after the longest and most perilous absence of Master Headley's
life, and he then presented Giles, to whom the kindly dame offered hand and cheek, saying,
"Welcome, my young kinsman, your good father was well known and liked here.  May you tread
in his steps!"

"Thanks, good mistress," returned Giles.  "I am thought to have a pretty taste in the fancy
part of the trade.  My Lord of Montagu--"

Before he could get any farther, Mistress Headley was inquiring what was the rumour she had
heard of robbers and dangers that had beset her son, and he was presenting the two young Birkenholts
to her.  "Brave boys! good boys," she said, holding out her hands and kissing each according
to the custom of welcome, "you have saved my son for me, and this little one's father for her.
Kiss them, Dennet, and thank them."

"It was the poor dog," said the child, in a clear little voice, drawing back with a certain
quaint coquetting shyness; "I would rather kiss him."

"Would that thou couldst, little mistress," said Stephen.  "My poor brave Spring!"

"Was he thine own?  Tell me all about him," said Dennet, somewhat imperiously.

She stood between the two strangers looking eagerly in with sorrowfully interested eyes, while
Stephen, out of his full heart, told of his faithful comradeship with his hound from the infancy
of both.  Her father meanwhile was exchanging serious converse with her grandmother, and Giles
finding himself left in the background, began: "Come hither, pretty coz, and I will tell thee
of my Lady of Salisbury's dainty little hounds."

"I care not for dainty little hounds," returned Dennet; "I want to hear of the poor faithful
dog that flew at the wicked robber."

"A mighty stir about a mere chance," muttered Giles.

"I know what you did," said Dennet, turning her bright brown eyes full upon him.  "You took
to your heels."

Her look and little nod were so irresistibly comical that the two brothers could not help laughing;
whereupon Giles Headley turned upon them in a passion.

"What mean ye by this insolence, you beggars' brats picked up on the heath?"

"Better born than thou, braggart and coward that thou art!" broke forth Stephen, while Master
Headley exclaimed, "How now, lads?  No brawling here!"

Three voices spoke at once.

"They were insolent."

"He reviled our birth."

"Father! they did but laugh when I told cousin Giles that he took to his heels, and he must
needs call them beggars' brats picked up on the heath."

"Ha! ha! wench, thou art woman enough already to set them together by the ears," said her father,
laughing.  "See here, Giles Headley, none who bears my name shall insult a stranger on my hearth."

Stephen however had stepped forth holding out his small stock of coin, and saying, "Sir, receive
for our charges, and let us go to the tavern we passed anon."

"How now, boy!  Said I not ye were my guests?"

"Yea, sir, and thanks; but we can give no cause for being called beggars nor beggars' brats."

"What beggary is there in being guests, my young gentlemen?" said the master of the house.
"If any one were picked up on the heath, it was I. We owned you for gentlemen of blood and
coat armour, and thy brother there can tell thee that ye have no right to put an affront on
me, your host, because a rude prentice from a country town hath not learnt to rule his tongue."

Giles scowled, but the armourer spoke with an authority that imposed on all, and Stephen submitted,
while Ambrose spoke a few words of thanks, after which the two brothers were conducted by an
external stair and gallery to a guest-chamber, in which to prepare for supper.

The room was small, but luxuriously filled beyond all ideas of the young foresters, for it
was hung with tapestry, representing the history of Joseph; the bed was curtained, there was
a carved chest for clothes, a table and a ewer and basin of bright brass with the armourer's
mark upon it, a twist in which the letter H and the dragon's tongue and tail were ingeniously
blended.  The City was far in advance of the country in all the arts of life, and only the
more magnificent castles and abbeys, which the boys had never seen, possessed the amount of
comforts to be found in the dwellings of the superior class of Londoners.  Stephen was inclined
to look with contempt upon the effeminacy of a churl merchant.

"No churl," returned Ambrose, "if manners makyth man, as we saw at Winchester."

"Then what do they make of that cowardly clown, his cousin?"

Ambrose laughed, but said, "Prove we our gentle blood at least by not brawling with the fellow.
Master Headley will soon teach him to know his place."

"That will matter nought to us.  To-morrow shall we be with our uncle Hal.  I only wish his
lord was not of the ghostly sort, but perhaps he may prefer me to some great knight's service.
But oh!  Ambrose, come and look.  See!  The fellow they call Smallbones is come out to the
fountain in the middle of the court with a bucket in each hand.  Look! Didst ever see such
a giant?  He is as big and brawny as Ascapart at the bar-gate at Southampton.  See! he lifts
that big pail full and brimming as though it were an egg shell.  See his arm!  'Twere good
to see him wield a hammer!  I must look into his smithy before going forth to- morrow."

Stephen clenched his fist and examined his muscles ere donning his best mourning jerkin, and
could scarce be persuaded to complete his toilet, so much was he entertained with the comings
and goings in the court, a little world in itself, like a college quadrangle.  The day's work
was over, the forges out, and the smiths were lounging about at ease, one or two sitting on
a bench under a large elm-tree beside the central well, enjoying each his tankard of ale. 
A few more were watching Poppet being combed down, and conversing with the newly-arrived grooms.
One was carrying a little child in his arms, and a young man and maid sitting on the low wall
round the well, seemed to be carrying on a courtship over the pitcher that stood waiting to
be filled.  Two lads were playing at skittles, children were running up and down the stairs
and along the wooden galleries, and men and women went and came by the entrance gateway between
the two effigies of knights in armour.  Some were servants bringing helm or gauntlet for repair,
or taking the like away. Some might be known by their flat caps to be apprentices, and two
substantial burgesses walked in together, as if to greet Master Headley on his return.  Immediately
after, a man-cook appeared with white cap and apron, bearing aloft a covered dish surrounded
by a steamy cloud, followed by other servants bearing other meats; a big bell began to sound,
the younger men and apprentices gathered together and the brothers descended the stairs, and
entered by the big door into the same large hall where they had been received.  The spacious
hearth was full of green boughs, with a beaupot of wild rose, honeysuckle, clove pinks and
gilliflowers; the lower parts of the walls were hung with tapestry representing the adventures
of Saint George; the mullioned windows had their upper squares filled with glass, bearing the
shield of the City of London, that of the Armourers' Company, the rose and portcullis of the
King, the pomegranate of Queen Catharine, and other like devices. Others, belonging to the
Lancastrian kings, adorned the pendants from the handsome open roof and the front of a gallery
for musicians which crossed one end of the hall in the taste of the times of Henry the Fifth
and Whittington.

Far more interesting to the hungry travellers was it that the long table, running the whole
breadth of the apartment, was decked with snowy linen, trenchers stood ready with horns or
tankards beside them, and loaves of bread at intervals, while the dishes were being placed
on the table.  The master and his entire establishment took their meals together, except the
married men, who lived in the quadrangle with their families.  There was no division by the
salt-cellar, as at the tables of the nobles and gentry, but the master, his family and guests,
occupied the centre, with the hearth behind them, where the choicest of the viands were placed;
next after them were the places of the journeymen according to seniority, then those of the
apprentices, household servants, and stable-men, but the apprentices had to assist the serving-
men in waiting on the master and his party before sitting down themselves.  There was a dignity
and regularity about the whole, which could not fail to impress Stephen and Ambrose with the
weight and importance of a London burgher, warden of the Armourers' Company, and alderman of
the Ward of Cheap.  There were carved chairs for himself, his mother, and the guests, also
a small Persian carpet extending from the hearth beyond their seats.  This article filled the
two foresters with amazement.  To put one's feet on what ought to be a coverlet!  They would
not have stepped on it, had they not been kindly summoned by old Mistress Headley to take their
places among the company, which consisted, besides the family, of the two citizens who had
entered, and of a priest who had likewise dropped in to welcome Master Headley's return, and
had been invited to stay to supper.  Young Giles, as a matter of course, placed himself amongst
them, at which there were black looks and whispers among the apprentices, and even Mistress
Headley wore an air of amazement.

"Mother," said the head of the family, speaking loud enough for all to hear, "you will permit
our young kinsman to be placed as our guest this evening.  To-morrow he will act as an apprentice,
as we all have done in our time."

"I never did so at home!" cried Giles, in his loud, hasty voice.

"I trow not," dryly observed one of the guests.

Giles, however, went on muttering while the priest was pronouncing a Latin grace, and thereupon
the same burgess observed, "never did I see it better proved that folk in the country give
their sons no good breeding."

"Have patience with him, good Master Pepper," returned Mr Headley.  "He hath been an only son,
greatly cockered by father, mother, and sisters, but ere long he will learn what is befitting."

Giles glared round, but he met nothing encouraging.  Little Dennet sat with open mouth of astonishment,
her grandmother looked shocked, the household which had been aggrieved by his presumption laughed
at his rebuke, for there was not much delicacy in those days; but something generous in the
gentle blood of Ambrose moved him to some amount of pity for the lad, who thus suddenly became
conscious that the tie he had thought nominal at Salisbury, a mere preliminary to municipal
rank, was here absolute subjection, and a bondage whence there was no escape.  His was the
only face that Giles met which had any friendliness in it, but no one spoke, for manners imposed
silence upon youth at table, except when spoken to; and there was general hunger enough prevailing
to make Mistress Headley's fat capon the most interesting contemplation for the present.

The elders conversed, for there was much for Master Headley to hear of civic affairs that had
passed in his absence of two months, also of all the comings and goings, and it was ascertained
that my Lord Archbishop of York was at his suburban abode, York House, now Whitehall.

It was a very late supper for the times, not beginning till seven o'clock, on account of the
travellers; and as soon as it was finished, and the priest and burghers had taken their leave,
Master Headley dismissed the household to their beds, although daylight was scarcely departed.

CHAPTER SIX.

A SUNDAY IN THE CITY.

  "The rod of Heaven has touched them all,
  The word from Heaven is spoken
  Rise, shine and sing, thou captive thrall,
  Are not thy fetters broken!"
  Keble.

On Sunday morning, when the young Birkenholts awoke, the whole air seemed full of bells from
hundreds of Church and Minster steeples.  The Dragon Court wore a holiday air, and there was
no ring of hammers at the forges; but the men who stood about were in holiday attire: and the
brothers assumed their best clothes.

Breakfast was not a meal much accounted of.  It was reckoned effeminate to require more than
two meals a day, though, just as in the verdurer's lodge at home, there was a barrel of ale
on tap with drinking horns beside it in the hall, and on a small round table in the window
a loaf of bread, to which city luxury added a cheese, and a jug containing sack, with some
silver cups beside it, and a pitcher of fair water. Master Headley, with his mother and daughter,
was taking a morsel of these refections, standing, and in out-door garments, when the brothers
appeared at about seven o'clock in the morning.

"Ha! that's well," quoth he, greeting them.  "No slugabeds, I see.  Will ye come with us to
hear mass at Saint Faith's?"  They agreed, and Master Headley then told them that if they would
tarry till the next day in searching out their uncle, they could have the company of Tibble
Steelman, who had to see one of the captains of the guard about an alteration of his corslet,
and thus would have every opportunity of facilitating their inquiries for their uncle.

The mass was an ornate one, though not more so than they were accustomed to at Beaulieu.  Ambrose
had his book of devotions, supplied by the good monks who had brought him up, and old Mrs Headley
carried something of the same kind; but these did not necessarily follow the ritual, and neither
quiet nor attention was regarded as requisite in "hearing mass." Dennet, unchecked, was exchanging
flowers from her Sunday posy with another little girl, and with hooded fingers carrying on
in all innocence the satirical pantomime of Father Francis and Sister Catharine; and even Master
Headley himself exchanged remarks with his friends, and returned greetings from burgesses and
their wives while the celebrant priest's voice droned on, and the choir responded--the peals
of the organ in the Minster above coming in at inappropriate moments, for there they were in
a different part of High Mass using the Liturgy peculiar to Saint Paul's.

Thinking of last week at Beaulieu, Ambrose knelt meantime with his head buried in his hands,
in an absorption of feeling that was not perhaps wholly devout, but which at any rate looked
more like devotion than the demeanour of any one around.  When the Ite missa est was pronounced,
and all rose up, Stephen touched him and he rose, looking about, bewildered.

"So please you, young sir, I can show you another sort of thing by and by," said in his ear
Tibble Steelman, who had come in late, and marked his attitude.

They went up from Saint Faith's in a flood of talk, with all manner of people welcoming Master
Headley after his journey, and thence came back to dinner which was set out in the hall very
soon after their return from church.  Quite guests enough were there on this occasion to fill
all the chairs, and Master Headley intimated to Giles that he must begin his duties at table
as an apprentice, under the tuition of the senior, a tall young fellow of nineteen, by name
Edmund Burgess.  He looked greatly injured and discomfited, above all when he saw his two travelling
companions seated at the table--though far lower than the night before; nor would he stir from
where he was standing against the wall to do the slightest service, although Edmund admonished
him sharply that unless he bestirred himself it would be the worse for him.

When the meal was over, and grace had been said, the boards were removed from their trestles,
and the elders drew round the small table in the window with a flagon of sack and a plate of
wastel bread in their midst to continue their discussion of weighty Town Council matters. 
Every one was free to make holiday, and Edmund Burgess good-naturedly invited the strangers
to come to Mile End, where there was to be shooting at the butts, and a match at single-stick
was to come off between Kit Smallbones and another giant, who was regarded as the champion
of the brewer's craft.

Stephen was nothing loth, especially if he might take his own crossbow; but Ambrose never had
much turn for these pastimes and was in no mood for them.  The familiar associations of the
mass had brought the grief of orphanhood, homelessness, and uncertainty upon him with the more
force.  His spirit yearned after his father, and his heart was sick for his forest home.  Moreover,
there was the duty incumbent on a good son of saying his prayers for the repose of his hither's
soul.  He hinted as much to Stephen, who, boy-like, answered, "Oh, we'll see to that when we
get into my Lord of York's house.  Masses must be plenty there.  And I must see Smallbones
floor the brewer."

Ambrose could trust his brother under the care of Edmund Burgess, and resolved on a double
amount of repetitions of the appointed intercessions for the departed.

He was watching the party of youths set off, all except Giles Headley, who sulkily refused
the invitations, betook himself to a window and sat drumming on the glass, while Ambrose stood
leaning on the dragon balustrade, with his eyes dreamily following the merry lads out at the
gateway.

"You are not for such gear, sir," said a voice at his ear, and he saw the scathed face of Tibble
Steelman beside him.

"Never greatly so, Tibble," answered Ambrose.  "And my heart is too heavy for it now."

"Ay, ay, sir.  So I thought when I saw you in Saint Faith's.  I have known what it was to lose
a good father in my time."

Ambrose held out his hand.  It was the first really sympathetic word he had heard since he
had left Nurse Joan.

"'Tis the week's mind of his burial," he said, half choked with tears. "Where shall I find
a quiet church where I may say his de profundis in peace?"

"Mayhap," returned Tibble, "the chapel in the Pardon churchyard would serve your turn.  'Tis
not greatly resorted to when mass time is over, when there's no funeral in hand, and I oft
go there to read my book in quiet on a Sunday afternoon.  And then, if 'tis your will, I will
take you to what to my mind is the best healing for a sore heart."

"Nurse Joan was wont to say the best for that was a sight of the true Cross, as she once beheld
it at Holy Rood church at Southampton," said Ambrose.

"And so it is, lad, so it is," said Tibble, with a strange light on his distorted features.

So they went forth together, while Giles again hugged himself in his doleful conceit, marvelling
how a youth of birth and nurture could walk the streets on a Sunday with a scarecrow such as that!

The hour was still early, there was a whole summer afternoon before them; and Tibble, seeing
how much his young companion was struck with the grand vista of church towers and spires, gave
him their names as they stood, though coupling them with short dry comments on the way in which
their priests too often perverted them.

The Cheap was then still in great part an open space, where boys were playing, and a tumbler
was attracting many spectators; while the ballad- singer of yesterday had again a large audience,
who laughed loudly at every coarse jest broken upon mass-priests and friars.

Ambrose was horrified at the stave that met his ears, and asked how such profanity could be
allowed.  Tibble shrugged his shoulders, and cited the old saying, "The nearer the church,"--adding,
"Truth hath a voice, and will out."

"But surely this is not the truth?"

"'Tis mighty like it, sir, though it might be spoken in a more seemly fashion."

"What's this?" demanded Ambrose.  "'Tis a noble house."

"That's the Bishop's palace, sir--a man that hath much to answer for."

"Liveth he so ill a life then?"

"Not so.  He is no scandalous liver, but he would fain stifle all the voices that call for
better things.  Ay, you look back at yon ballad- monger!  Great folk despise the like of him,
never guessing at the power there may be in such ribald stuff; while they would fain silence
that which might turn men from their evil ways while yet there is time."

Tibble muttered this to himself, unheeded by Ambrose, and then presently crossing the churchyard,
where a grave was being filled up, with numerous idle children around it, he conducted the
youth into a curious little chapel, empty now, but with the Host enthroned above the altar,
and the trestles on which the bier had rested still standing in the narrow nave.

It was intensely still and cool, a fit place indeed for Ambrose's filial devotions, while Tibble
settled himself on the step, took out a little black book, and became absorbed.  Ambrose's
Latin scholarship enabled him to comprehend the language of the round of devotions he was rehearsing
for the benefit of his father's soul; but there was much repetition in them, and he had been
so trained as to believe their correct recital was much more important than attention to their
spirit, and thus, while his hands held his rosary, his eyes were fixed upon the walls where
was depicted the Dance of Death.  In terrible repetition, the artist had aimed at depicting
every rank or class in life as alike the prey of the grisly phantom.  Triple-crowned pope,
scarlet-hatted cardinal, mitred prelate, priests, monks, and friars of every degree; emperors,
kings, princes, nobles, knights, squires, yeomen, every sort of trade, soldiers of all kinds,
beggars, even thieves and murderers, and, in like manner, ladies of every degree, from the
queen and the abbess, down to the starving beggar, were each represented as grappled with,
and carried off by the crowned skeleton.  There was no truckling to greatness.  The bishop
and abbot writhed and struggled in the grasp of Death, while the miser clutched at his gold,
and if there were some nuns, and some poor ploughmen who willingly clasped his bony fingers
and obeyed his summons joyfully, there were countesses and prioresses who tried to beat him
off, or implored him to wait.  The infant smiled in his arms, but the middle-aged fought against
his scythe.

The contemplation had a most depressing effect on the boy, whose heart was still sore for his
father.  After the sudden shock of such a loss, the monotonous repetition of the snatching
away of all alike, in the midst of their characteristic worldly employments, and the anguish
and hopeless resistance of most of them, struck him to the heart.  He moved between each bead
to a fresh group; staring at it with fixed gaze, while his lips moved in the unconscious hope
of something consoling; till at last, hearing some uncontrollable sobs, Tibble Steelman rose
and found him crouching rather than kneeling before the figure of an emaciated hermit, who
was greeting the summons of the King of Terrors, with crucifix pressed to his breast, rapt
countenance and outstretched arms, seeing only the Angel who hovered above.  After some minutes
of bitter weeping, which choked his utterance, Ambrose, feeling a friendly hand on his shoulder,
exclaimed in a voice broken by sobs, "Oh, tell me, where may I go to become an anchorite! 
There's no other safety!  I'll give all my portion, and spend all my time in prayer for my
father and the other poor souls in purgatory."

Two centuries earlier, nay, even one, Ambrose would have been encouraged to follow out his
purpose.  As it was, Tibble gave a little dry cough and said, "Come along with me, sir, and
I'll show you another sort of way."

"I want no entertainment!" said Ambrose, "I should feel only as if he," pointing to the phantom,
"were at hand, clutching me with his deadly claw," and he looked over his shoulder with a shudder.

There was a box by the door to receive alms for masses on behalf of the souls in purgatory,
and here he halted and felt for the pouch at his girdle, to pour in all the contents; but Steelman
said, "Hold, sir, are you free to dispose of your brother's share, you who are purse-bearer
for both?"

"I would fain hold my brother to the only path of safety."

Again Tibble gave his dry cough, but added, "He is not in the path of safety who bestows that
which is not his own but is held in trust.  I were foully to blame if I let this grim portrayal
so work on you as to lead you to beggar not only yourself, but your brother, with no consent
of his."

For Tibble was no impulsive Italian, but a sober-minded Englishman of sturdy good sense, and
Ambrose was reasonable enough to listen and only drop in a few groats which he knew to be his own.

At the same moment, a church bell was heard, the tone of which Steelman evidently distinguished
from all the others, and he led the way out of the Pardon churchyard, over the space in front
of Saint Paul's.  Many persons were taking the same route; citizens in gowns and gold or silver
chains, their wives in tall pointed hats; craftsmen, black-gowned scholarly men with fur caps,
but there was a much more scanty proportion of priests, monks or friars, than was usual in
any popular assemblage. Many of the better class of women carried folding stools, or had them
carried by their servants, as if they expected to sit and wait.

"Is there a procession toward? or a relic to be displayed?" asked Ambrose, trying to recollect
whose feast-day it might be.

Tibble screwed up his mouth in an extraordinary smile as he said, "Relic quotha? yea, the soothest
relic there be of the Lord and Master of us all."

"Methought the true Cross was always displayed on the High Altar," said Ambrose, as all turned
to a side aisle of the noble nave.

"Rather say hidden," muttered Tibble.  "Thou shalt have it displayed, young sir, but neither
in wood nor gilded shrine.  See, here he comes who setteth it forth."

From the choir came, attended by half a dozen clergy, a small, pale man, in the ordinary dress
of a priest, with a square cap on his head.  He looked spare, sickly, and wrinkled, but the
furrows traced lines of sweetness, his mouth was wonderfully gentle, and there was a keen brightness
about his clear grey eye.  Every one rose and made obeisance as he passed along to the stone
stair leading to a pulpit projecting from one of the columns.

Ambrose saw what was coming, though he had only twice before heard preaching.  The children
of the ante-reformation were not called upon to hear sermons; and the few exhortations given
in Lent to the monks of Beaulieu were so exclusively for the religious that seculars were not
invited to them.  So that Ambrose had only once heard a weary and heavy discourse there plentifully
garnished with Latin; and once he had stood among the throng at a wake at Millbrook, and heard
a begging friar recommend the purchase of briefs of indulgence and the daily repetition of
the Ave Maria by a series of extraordinary miracles for the rescue of desperate sinners, related
so jocosely as to keep the crowd in a roar of laughter.  He had laughed with the rest, but
he could not imagine his guide, with the stern, grave eyebrows, writhen features and earnest,
ironical tone, covering--as even he could detect--the deepest feeling, enjoying such broad
sallies as tickled the slow merriment of village clowns and forest deer-stealers.

All stood for a moment while the Paternoster was repeated.  Then the owners of stools sat down
on them, some leant on adjacent pillars, others curled themselves on the floor, but most remained
on their feet as unwilling to miss a word, and of these were Tibble Steelman and his companion.

Omnis qui facit peccattum, servus est peccati, followed by the rendering in English, "Whosoever
doeth sin is sin's bond thrall."  The words answered well to the ghastly delineations that
seemed stamped on Ambrose's brain and which followed him about into the nave, so that he felt
himself in the grasp of the cruel fiend, and almost expected to feel the skeleton claw of Death
about to hand him over to torment.  He expected the consolation of hearing that a daily "Hail
Mary," persevered in through the foulest life, would obtain that beams should be arrested in
their fall, ships fail to sink, cords to hang, till such confession had been made as should
insure ultimate salvation, after such a proportion of the flames of purgatory as masses and
prayers might not mitigate.

But his attention was soon caught.  Sinfulness stood before him not as the liability to penalty
for transgressing an arbitrary rule, but as a taint to the entire being, mastering the will,
perverting the senses, forging fetters out of habit, so as to be a loathsome horror paralysing
and enchaining the whole being and making it into the likeness of him who brought sin and death
into the world.  The horror seemed to grow on Ambrose, as his boyish faults and errors rushed
on his mind, and he felt pervaded by the contagion of the pestilence, abhorrent even to himself.
But behold, what was he hearing now?  "The bond thrall abideth not in the house for ever, but
the Son abideth ever.  Si ergo Filius liberavit, vere liberi eritis."  "If the Son should make
you free, then are ye free indeed."  And for the first time was the true liberty of the redeemed
soul comprehensibly proclaimed to the young spirit that had begun to yearn for something beyond
the outside.  Light began to shine through the outward ordinances; the Church; the world, life,
and death, were revealed as something absolutely new; a redeeming, cleansing, sanctifying power
was made known, and seemed to inspire him with a new life, joy, and hope.  He was no longer
feeling himself necessarily crushed by the fetters of death, or only delivered from absolute
peril by a mechanism that had lost its heart, but he could enter into the glorious liberty
of the sons of God, in process of being saved, not in sin but from sin.

It was an era in his life, and Tibble heard him sobbing, but with very different sobs from
those in the Pardon chapel.  When it was over, and the blessing given, Ambrose looked up from
the hands which had covered his face with a new radiance in his eyes, and drew a long breath.
Tibble saw that he was like one in another world, and gently led him away.

"Who is he?  What is he?  Is he an angel from Heaven?" demanded the boy, a little wildly, as
they neared the southern door.

"If an angel be a messenger of God, I trow he is one," said Tibble. "But men call him Dr Colet.
He is Dean of Saint Paul's Minster, and dwelleth in the house you see below there."

"And are such words as these to be heard every Sunday?"

"On most Sundays doth he preach here in the nave to all sorts of folk."

"I must--I must hear it again!" exclaimed Ambrose.

"Ay, ay," said Tibble, regarding him with a well-pleased face.  "You are one with whom it works."

"Every Sunday!" repeated Ambrose.  "Why do not all--your master and all these," pointing to
the holiday crowds going to and fro--"why do they not all come to listen?"

"Master doth come by times," said Tibble, in the tone of irony that was hard to understand.
"He owneth the dean as a rare preacher."

Ambrose did not try to understand.  He exclaimed again, panting as if his thoughts were too
strong for his words--

"Lo you, that preacher-dean call ye him?--putteth a soul into what hath hitherto been to me
but a dead and empty framework."

Tibble held out his hand almost unconsciously, and Ambrose pressed it. Man and boy, alike they
had felt the electric current of that truth, which, suppressed and ignored among man's inventions,
was coming as a new revelation to many, and was already beginning to convulse the Church and
the world.

Ambrose's mind was made up on one point.  Whatever he did, and wherever he went, he felt the
doctrine he had just heard as needful to him as vital air, and he must be within reach of it.
This, and not the hermit's cell, was what his instinct craved.  He had always been a studious,
scholarly boy, supposed to be marked out for a clerical life, because a book was more to him
than a bow, and he had been easily trained in good habits and practices of devotion; but all
in a childish manner, without going beyond simple receptiveness, until the experiences of the
last week had made a man of him, or more truly, the Pardon chapel and Dean Colet's sermon had
made him a new being, with the realities of the inner life opened before him.

His present feeling was relief from the hideous load he had felt while dwelling on the Dance
of Death, and therewith general goodwill to all men, which found its first issue in compassion
for Giles Headley, whom he found on his return seated on the steps--moody and miserable.

"Would that you had been with us," said Ambrose, sitting down beside him on the step.  "Never
have I heard such words as to-day."

"I would not be seen in the street with that scarecrow," murmured Giles. "If my mother could
have guessed that he was to be set over me, I had never come here."

"Surely you knew that he was foreman."

"Yea, but not that I should be under him--I whom old Giles vowed should be as his own son--I
that am to wed yon little brown moppet, and be master here!  So, forsooth," he said, "now he
treats me like any common low-bred prentice."

"Nay," said Ambrose, "an if you were his son, he would still make you serve.  It's the way
with all craftsmen--yea and with gentlemen's sons also.  They must be pages and squires ere
they can be knights."

"It never was the way at home.  I was only bound prentice to my father for the name of the
thing, that I might have the freedom of the city, and become head of our house."

"But how could you be a wise master without learning the craft?"

"What are journeymen for?" demanded the lad.  "Had I known how Giles Headley meant to serve
me, he might have gone whistle for a husband for his wench.  I would have ridden in my Lady
of Salisbury's train."

"You might have had rougher usage there than here," said Ambrose. "Master Headley lays nothing
on you but what he has himself proved.  I would I could see you make the best of so happy a home."

"Ay, that's all very well for you, who are certain of a great man's house."

"Would that I were certified that my brother would be as well off as you, if you did but know
it," said Ambrose.  "Ha! here come the dishes! 'Tis supper-time come on us unawares, and Stephen
not returned from Mile End!"

Punctuality was not, however, exacted on these summer Sunday evenings, when practice with the
bow and other athletic sports were enjoined by Government, and, moreover, the youths were with
so trustworthy a member of the household as Kit Smallbones.

Sundry City magnates had come to supper with Master Headley, and whether it were the effect
of Ambrose's counsel, or of the example of a handsome lad who had come with his father, one
of the worshipful guild of Merchant Taylors, Giles did vouchsafe to bestir himself in waiting,
and in consideration of the effort it must have cost him, old Mrs Headley and her son did not
take notice of his blunders, but only Dennet fell into a violent fit of laughter, when he presented
the stately alderman with a nutmeg under the impression that it was an overgrown peppercorn.
She suppressed her mirth as well as she could, poor little thing, for it was a great offence
in good manners, but she was detected, and, only child as she was, the consequence was the
being banished from the table and sent to bed.

But when, after supper was over, Ambrose went out to see if there were any signs of the return
of Stephen and the rest, he found the little maiden curled up in the gallery with her kitten
in her arms.

"Nay!" she said, in a spoilt-child tone, "I'm not going to bed before my time for laughing
at that great oaf!  Nurse Alice says he is to wed me, but I won't have him!  I like the pretty
boy who had the good dog and saved father, and I like you, Master Ambrose.  Sit down by me
and tell me the story over again, and we shall see Kit Smallbones come home.  I know he'll
have beaten the brewer's fellow."

Before Ambrose had decided whether thus far to abet rebellion, she jumped up and cried: "Oh,
I see Kit!  He's got my ribbon!  He has won the match!"

And down she rushed, quite oblivious of her disgrace, and Ambrose presently saw her uplifted
in Kit Smallbones' brawny arms to utter her congratulations.

Stephen was equally excited.  His head was full of Kit Smallbones' exploits, and of the marvels
of the sports he had witnessed and joined in with fair success.  He had thought Londoners poor
effeminate creatures, but he found that these youths preparing for the trained bands understood
all sorts of martial exercises far better than any of his forest acquaintance, save perhaps
the hitting of a mark.  He was half wild with a boy's enthusiasm for Kit Smallbones and Edmund
Burgess, and when, after eating the supper that had been reserved for the late comers, he and
his brother repaired to their own chamber, his tongue ran on in description of the feats he
had witnessed and his hopes of emulating them, since he understood that Archbishop as was my
Lord of York, there was a tilt-yard at York House.  Ambrose, equally full of his new feelings,
essayed to make his brother a sharer in them, but Stephen entirely failed to understand more
than that his book-worm brother had heard something that delighted him in his own line of scholarship,
from which Stephen had happily escaped a year ago!

CHAPTER SEVEN.

YORK HOUSE.

  "Then hath he servants five or six score,
  Some behind and some before
  A marvellous great company
  Of which are lords and gentlemen,
  With many grooms and yeomen
  And also knaves among them."
  Contemporary Poem on Wolsey.

Early were hammers ringing on anvils in the Dragon Court, and all was activity.  Master Headley
was giving his orders to Kit Smallbones before setting forth to take the Duke of Buckingham's
commands; Giles Headley, very much disgusted, was being invested with a leathern apron, and
entrusted to Edmund Burgess to learn those primary arts of furbishing which, but for his mother's
vanity and his father's weakness, he would have practised four years sooner.  Tibble Steelman
was superintending the arrangement of half a dozen corslets, which were to be carried by three
stout porters, under his guidance, to what is now Whitehall, then the residence of the Archbishop
of York, the king's prime adviser, Thomas Wolsey.

"Look you, Tib," said the kind-hearted armourer, "if those lads find not their kinsman, or
find him not what they look for, bring them back hither, I cannot have them cast adrift.  They
are good and brave youths, and I owe a life to them."

Tibble nodded entire assent, but when the boys appeared in their mourning suits, with their
bundles on their backs, they were sent back again to put on their forest green, Master Headley
explaining that it was reckoned ill-omened, if not insulting, to appear before any great personage
in black, unless to enhance some petition directly addressed to himself.  He also bade them
leave their fardels behind, as, if they tarried at York House, these could be easily sent after
them.

They obeyed--even Stephen doing so with more alacrity than he had hitherto shown to Master
Headley's behests; for now that the time for departure had come, he was really sorry to leave
the armourer's household.  Edmund Burgess had been very good-natured to the raw country lad,
and Kit Smallbones was, in his eyes, an Ascapart in strength, and a Bevis in prowess and kindliness.
Mistress Headley too had been kind to the orphan lads, and these two days had given a feeling
of being at home at the Dragon.  When Giles wished them a moody farewell, and wished he were
going with them, Stephen returned, "Ah! you don't know when you are well off."

Little Dennet came running down after them with two pinks in her hands. "Here's a sop-in-wine
for a token for each of you young gentlemen," she cried, "for you came to help father, and
I would you were going to stay and wed me instead of Giles."

"What, both of us, little maid?" said Ambrose, laughing, as he stooped to receive the kiss
her rosy lips tendered to him.

"Not but what she would have royal example," muttered Tibble aside.

Dennet put her head on one side, as considering.  "Nay, not both; but you are gentle and courteous,
and he is brave and gallant--and Giles there is moody and glum, and can do nought."

"Ah! you will see what a gallant fellow Giles can be when thou hast cured him of his home-sickness
by being good to him," said Ambrose, sorry for the youth in the universal laughter at the child's
plain speaking.

And thus the lads left the Dragon, amid friendly farewells.  Ambrose looked up at the tall
spire of Saint Paul's with a strong determination that he would never put himself out of reach
of such words as he had there drunk in, and which were indeed spirit and life to him.

Tibble took them down to the Saint Paul's stairs on the river, where at his whistle a wherry
was instantly brought to transport them to York stairs, only one of the smiths going any further
in charge of the corslets.  Very lovely was their voyage in the brilliant summer morning, as
the glittering water reflected in broken ripples church spire, convent garden, and stately
house.  Here rows of elm-trees made a cool walk by the river side, there strawberry beds sloped
down the Strand, and now and then the hooded figures of nuns might be seen gathering the fruit.
There, rose the round church of the Temple, and the beautiful gardens surrounding the buildings,
half monastic, half military, and already inhabited by lawyers.  From a barge at the Temple
stairs a legal personage descended, with a square beard, and open, benevolent, shrewd face,
before whom Tibble removed his cap with eagerness, saying to Ambrose, "Yonder is Master More,
a close friend of the dean's, a good and wise man, and forward in every good work."

Thus did they arrive at York House.  Workmen were busy on some portions of it, but it was inhabited
by the great Archbishop, the king's chief adviser.  The approach of the boat seemed to be instantly
notified, as it drew near the stone steps giving entrance to the gardens, with an avenue of
trees leading up to the principal entrance.

Four or five yeomen ran down the steps, calling out to Tibble that their corslets had tarried
a long time, and that Sir Thomas Drury had been storming for him to get his tilting armour
into order.

Tibble followed the man who had undertaken to conduct him through a path that led to the offices
of the great house, bidding the boys keep with him, and asking for their uncle Master Harry
Randall.

The yeoman shook his head.  He knew no such person in the household, and did not think there
ever had been such.  Sir Thomas Drury was found in the stable court, trying the paces of the
horse he intended to use in the approaching joust.  "Ha! old Wrymouth," he cried, "welcome
at last! I must have my new device damasked on my shield.  Come hither, and I'll show it thee."

Private rooms were seldom enjoyed, even by knights and gentlemen, in such a household, and
Sir Thomas could only conduct Tibble to the armoury, where numerous suits of armour hung on
blocks, presenting the semblance of armed men.  The knight a good-looking personage, expatiated
much on the device he wished to dedicate to his lady-love, a pierced heart with a forget-me-not
in the midst and it was not until the directions were finished that Tibble ventured to mention
the inquiry for Randall.

"I wot of no such fellow," returned Sir Thomas, "you had best go to the comptroller, who keeps
all the names."

Tibble had to go to this functionary at any rate, to obtain an order for payment for the corslets
he had brought home.  Ambrose and Stephen followed him across an enormous hall, where three
long tables were being laid for dinner.

The comptroller of the household, an esquire of good birth, with a stiff little ruff round
his neck, sat in a sort of office inclosed by panels at the end of the hall.  He made an entry
of Tibble's account in a big book, and sent a message to the cofferer to bring the amount.
Then Tibble again put his question on behalf of the two young foresters, and the comptroller
shook his head.  He did not know the name.  "Was the gentleman," (he chose that word as he
looked at the boys), "layman or clerk?"

"Layman, certainly," said Ambrose, somewhat dismayed to find how little, on interrogation,
he really knew.

"Was he a yeoman of the guard, or in attendance on one of my lord's nobles in waiting?"

"We thought he had been a yeoman," said Ambrose.

"See," said the comptroller, stimulated by a fee administered by Tibble, "'tis just dinner-time,
and I must go to attend on my Lord Archbishop; but do you, Tibble, sit down with these striplings
to dinner, and then I will cast my eye over the books, and see if I can find any such name.
What, hast not time?  None ever quits my lord's without breaking his fast."

Tibble had no doubt that his master would be willing that he should give up his time for this
purpose, so he accepted the invitation.  The tables were by this time nearly covered, but all
stood waiting, for there flowed in from the great doorway of the hall a gorgeous train--first,
a man bearing the double archiepiscopal cross of York, fashioned in silver, and thick with
gems--then, with lofty mitre enriched with pearls and jewels, and with flowing violet lace-covered
robes came the sturdy square-faced ruddy prelate, who was then the chief influence in England,
and after him two glittering ranks of priests in square caps and richly embroidered copes,
all in accordant colours.  They were returning, as a yeoman told Tibble, from some great ecclesiastical
ceremony, and dinner would be served instantly.

"That for which Ralf Bowyer lives!" said a voice close by.  "He would fain that the dial's
hands were Marie bones, the face blancmange, wherein the figures should be grapes of Corinth!"

Stephen looked round and saw a man close beside him in what he knew at once to be the garb
of a jester.  A tall scarlet velvet cap, with three peaks, bound with gold braid, and each
surmounted with a little gilded bell, crowned his head, a small crimson ridge to indicate the
cock's comb running along the front.  His jerkin and hose were of motley, the left arm and
right leg being blue, their opposites, orange tawny, while the nether socks and shoes were
in like manner black and scarlet counterchanged.  And yet, somehow, whether from the way of
wearing it, or from the effect of the gold embroidery meandering over all, the effect was not
distressing, but more like that of a gorgeous bird.  The figure was tall, lithe, and active,
the brown ruddy face had none of the blank stare of vacant idiocy, but was full of twinkling
merriment, the black eyes laughed gaily, and perhaps only so clear-sighted and shrewd an observer
as Tibble would have detected a weakness of purpose about the mouth.

There was a roar of laughter at the gibe, as indeed there was at whatever was uttered by the
man whose profession was to make mirth.

"Thou likest thy food well enough thyself, quipsome one," muttered Ralf.

"Hast found one who doth not, Ralf?  Then should he have a free gift of my bauble," responded
the jester, shaking on high that badge, surmounted with the golden head of an ass, and jingling
with bells.  "How now, friend Wrymouth?  'Tis long since thou wert here!  This house hath well-
nigh been forced to its ghostly weapons for lack of thy substantial ones.  Where hast thou been?"

"At Salisbury, good Merryman."

"Have the Wilts men raked the moon yet out of the pond?  Did they lend thee their rake, Tib,
that thou hast raked up a couple of green Forest palmerworms, or be they the sons of the man
in the moon, raked out and all astray?"

"Mayhap, for we met them with dog and bush," said Tibble, "and they dropped as from the moon
to save my poor master from the robbers on Bagshot heath!  Come now, mine honest fellow, aid
me to rake, as thou sayest, this same household.  They are come up from the Forest, to seek
out their uncle, one Randall, who they have heard to be in this meine. Knowest thou such a fellow?"

"To seek a spider in a stubble-field!  Truly he needs my bauble who sent them on such an errand,"
said the jester, rather slowly, as if to take time for consideration.  "What's your name, my
Forest flies?"

"Birkenholt sir," answered Ambrose, "but our uncle is Harry Randall."

"Here's fools enow to take away mine office," was the reply.  "Here's a couple of lads would
leave the greenwood and the free oaks and beeches, for this stinking, plague-smitten London."

"We'd not have quitted it could we have tarried at home," began Ambrose; but at that moment
there was a sudden commotion, a trampling of horses was heard outside, a loud imperious voice
demanded, "Is my Lord Archbishop within?" a whisper ran round, "the King," and there entered
the hall with hasty steps, a figure never to be forgotten, clad in a bunting dress of green
velvet embroidered with gold, with a golden hunting horn slung round his neck.

Henry the Eighth was then in the splendid prime of his youth, in his twenty-seventh year, and
in the eyes, not only of his own subjects, but of all others, the very type of a true king
of men.  Tall, and as yet of perfect form for strength, agility, and grace; his features were
of the beautiful straight Plantagenet type, and his complexion of purely fair rosiness, his
large well-opened blue eyes full at once of frankness and keenness, and the short golden beard
that fringed his square chin giving the manly air that otherwise might have seemed wanting
to the feminine tinting of his regular lineaments.  All caps were instantly doffed save the
little bonnet with one drooping feather that covered his short, curled, yellow hair; and the
Earl of Derby, who was at the head of Wolsey's retainers, made haste, bowing to the ground,
to assure him that my Lord Archbishop was but doffing his robes, and would be with his Grace
instantly.  Would his Grace vouchsafe to come on to the privy chamber where the dinner was spread?

At the same moment Quipsome Hal sprang forward, exclaiming, "How now, brother and namesake?
Wherefore this coil?  Hath cloth of gold wearied yet of cloth of frieze?  Is she willing to
own her right to this?" as he held out his bauble.

"Holla, old Blister! art thou there?" said the King, good-humouredly. "What! knowest not that
we are to have such a wedding as will be a sight for sore eyes!"

"Sore! that's well said, friend Hal.  Thou art making progress in mine art!  Sore be the eyes
wherein thou wouldst throw dust."

Again the King laughed, for every one knew that his sister Mary had secretly been married to
the Duke of Suffolk for the last two months, and that this public marriage and the tournament
that was to follow were only for the sake of appearances.  He laid his hand good-naturedly
on the jester's shoulder as he walked up the hall towards the Archbishop's private apartments,
but the voices of both were loud pitched, and bits of the further conversation could be picked
up.  "Weddings are rife in your family," said the jester, "none of you get weary of fitting
on the noose.  What, thou thyself, Hal?  Ay, thou hast not caught the contagion yet!  Now ye
gods forefend!  If thou hast the chance, thou'lt have it strong."

Therewith the Archbishop, in his purple robes, appeared in the archway at the other end of
the hall, the King joined him, and still followed by the jester, they both vanished.  It was
presently made known that the King was about to dine there, and that all were to sit down to
eat.  The King dined alone with the Archbishop as his host; the two noblemen who had formed
his suite joined the first table in the higher hall; the knights that of the steward of the
household, who was of knightly degree, and with whom the superior clergy of the household ate;
and the grooms found their places among the vast array of yeomen and serving-men of all kinds
with whom Tibble and his two young companions had to eat. A week ago, Stephen would have contemned
the idea of being classed with serving-men and grooms, but by this time he was quite bewildered,
and anxious enough to be thankful to keep near a familiar face on any terms, and to feel as
if Tibble were an old friend, though he had only known him for five days.

Why the King had come had not transpired, but there was a whisper that despatches from Scotland
were concerned in it.  The meal was a lengthy one, but at last the King's horses were ordered,
and presently Henry came forth, with his arm familiarly linked in that of the Archbishop, whose
horse had likewise been made ready that he might accompany the King back to Westminster.  The
jester was close at hand, and as a parting shaft he observed, while the King mounted his horse,
"Friend Hal! give my brotherly commendations to our Madge, and tell her that one who weds Anguish
cannot choose but cry out."

Wherewith, affecting to expect a stroke from the King's whip, he doubled himself up, performed
the contortion now called turning a coachwheel, then, recovering himself, put his hands on
his hips and danced wildly on the steps; while Henry, shaking his whip at him, laughed at the
only too obvious pun, for Anguish was the English version of Angus, the title of Queen Margaret's
second husband, and it was her complaints that had brought him to his counsellor.

The jester then, much to the annoyance of the two boys, thought proper to follow them to the
office of the comptroller, and as that dignitary read out from his books the name of every
Henry, and of all the varieties of Ralf and Randolf among the hundred and eighty persons composing
the household, he kept on making comments.  "Harry Hempseed, clerk to the kitchen; ay, Hempseed
will serve his turn one of these days.  Walter Randall, groom of the chamber; ah, ha! my lads,
if you want a generous uncle who will look after you well, there is your man! He'll give you
the shakings of the napery for largesse, and when he is in an open-handed mood, will let you
lie on the rushes that have served the hall.  Harry of Lambeth, yeoman of the stable.  He will
make you free of all the taverns in Eastchepe."

And so on, accompanying each remark with a pantomime mimicry of the air and gesture of the
individual.  He showed in a second the contortions of Harry Weston in drawing the bow, and
in another the grimaces of Henry Hope, the choir man, in producing bass notes, or the swelling
majesty of Randall Porcher, the cross-bearer, till it really seemed as if he had shown off
the humours of at least a third of the enormous household. Stephen had laughed at first, but
as failure after failure occurred, the antics began to weary even him, and seem unkind and
ridiculous as hope ebbed away, and the appalling idea began to grow on him of being cast loose
on London without a friend or protector.  Ambrose felt almost despairing as he heard in vain
the last name.  He would almost have been willing to own Hal the scullion, and his hopes rose
when he heard of Hodge Randolph, the falconer, but alas, that same Hodge came from Yorkshire.

"And mine uncle was from the New Forest in Hampshire," he said.

"Maybe he went by the name of Shirley," added Stephen, "'tis where his home was."

But the comptroller, unwilling to begin a fresh search, replied at once that the only Shirley
in the household was a noble esquire of the Warwickshire family.

"You must e'en come back with me, young masters," said Tibble, "and see what my master can
do for you."

"Stay a bit," said the fool.  "Harry of Shirley!  Harry of Shirley! Methinks I could help you
to the man, if so be as you will deem him worth the finding," he added, suddenly turning upside
down, and looking at them standing on the palms of his hands, with an indescribable leer of
drollery, which in a moment dashed all the hopes with which they had turned to him.  "Should
you know this nunks of yours?" he added.

"I think I should," said Ambrose.  "I remember best how he used to carry me on his shoulder
to cull mistletoe for Christmas."

"Ah, ha!  A proper fellow of his inches now, with yellow hair?"

"Nay," said Ambrose, "I mind that his hair was black, and his eyes as black as sloes--or as
thine own, Master Jester."

The jester tumbled over into a more extraordinary attitude than before, while Stephen said--

"John was wont to twit us with being akin to Gipsy Hal."

"I mean a man sad and grave as the monks of Beaulieu," said the jester.

"He!" they both cried.  "No, indeed!  He was foremost in all sports."

"Ah!" cried Stephen, "mind you not, Ambrose, his teaching us leap-frog, and aye leaping over
one of us himself, with the other in his arms."

"Ah! sadly changed, sadly changed," said the jester, standing upright, with a most mournful
countenance.  "Maybe you'd not thank me if I showed him to you, young sirs, that is, if he
be the man."

"Nay! is he in need, or distress?" cried the brothers.

"Poor Hal!" returned the fool, shaking his head with mournfulness in his voice.

"Oh, take us to him, good--good jester," cried Ambrose.  "We are young and strong.  We will
work for him."

"What, a couple of lads like you, that have come to London seeking for him to befriend you--deserving
well cap for that matter.  Will ye be guided to him, my broken and soured--no more gamesome,
but a sickly old runagate?"

"Of course," cried Ambrose.  "He is our mother's brother.  We must care for him."

"Master Headley will give us work, mayhap," said Stephen, turning to Tibble.  "I could clean
the furnaces."

"Ah, ha!  I see fools' caps must hang thick as beech masts in the Forest," cried the fool,
but his voice was husky, and he turned suddenly round with his back to them, then cut three
or four extraordinary capers, after which he observed--

"Well, young gentlemen, I will see the man I mean, and if he be the same, and be willing to
own you for his nephews, he will meet you in the Temple Gardens at six of the clock this evening,
close to the rose-bush with the flowers in my livery--motley red and white."

"But how shall we know him?"

"D'ye think a pair of green caterpillars like you can't be marked-- unless indeed the gardener
crushes you for blighting his roses." Wherewith the jester quitted the scene, walking on his
hands, with his legs in the air.

"Is he to be trusted?" asked Tibble of the comptroller.

"Assuredly," was the answer; "none hath better wit than Quipsome Hal, when he chooseth to be
in earnest.  In very deed, as I have heard Sir Thomas More say, it needeth a wise man to be
fool to my Lord of York."

CHAPTER EIGHT.

QUIPSOME HAL.

  "The sweet and bitter fool
  Will presently appear,
  The one in motley here
  The other found out there."
  Shakespeare.

There lay the quiet Temple Gardens, on the Thames bank, cut out in formal walks, with flowers
growing in the beds of the homely kinds beloved by the English.  Musk roses, honeysuckle and
virgin's bower, climbed on the old grey walls; sops-in-wine, bluebottles, bachelor's buttons,
stars of Bethlehem and the like, filled the borders; May thorns were in full sweet blossom;
and near one another were the two rose- bushes, one damask and one white provence, whence Somerset
and Warwick were said to have plucked their fatal badges; while on the opposite side of a broad
grass-plot was another bush, looked on as a great curiosity of the best omen, where the roses
were streaked with alternate red and white, in honour, as it were, of the union of York and
Lancaster.

By this rose-tree stood the two young Birkenholts.  Edmund Burgess having, by his master's
desire, shown them the way, and passed them in by a word and sign from his master, then retired
unseen to a distance to mark what became of them, they having promised also to return and report
of themselves to Master Headley.

They stood together earnestly watching for the coming of the uncle, feeling quite uncertain
whether to expect a frail old broken man, or to find themselves absolutely deluded, and made
game of by the jester.

The gardens were nearly empty, for most people were sitting over their supper-tables after
the business of the day was over, and only one or two figures in black gowns paced up and down
in conversation.

"Come away, Ambrose," said Stephen at last.  "He only meant to make fools of us!  Come, before
he comes to gibe us for having heeded a moment.  Come, I say--here's this man coming to ask
us what we are doing here."

For a tall, well-made, well personage in the black or sad colour of a legal official, looking
like a prosperous householder, or superior artisan, was approaching them, some attendant, as
the boys concluded belonging to the Temple.  They expected to be turned out, and Ambrose in
an apologetic tone, began, "Sir, we were bidden to meet a--a kinsman here."

"And even so am I," was the answer, in a grave, quiet tone, "or rather to meet twain."

Ambrose looked up into a pair of dark eyes, and exclaimed, "Stevie, Stevie, 'tis he.  'Tis
uncle Hal."

"Ay, 'tis all you're like to have for him," answered Harry Randall, enfolding each in his embrace.
"Lad, how like thou art to my poor sister!  And is she indeed gone--and your honest father
too--and none left at home but that hunks, little John?  How and when died she?"

"Two years agone come Lammastide," answered Stephen.  "There was a deadly creeping fever and
ague through the Forest.  We two sickened, and Ambrose was so like to die that Diggory went
to the abbey for the priest to housel and anneal him, but by the time Father Simon came he
was sound asleep, and soon was whole again.  But before we were on our legs, our blessed mother
took the disease, and she passed away ere many days were over.  Then, though poor father took
not that sickness, he never was the same man again, and only twelve days after last Pasch-tide
he was taken with a fit and never spake again."

Stephen was weeping by this time, and his uncle had a hand on his shoulder, and with tears
in his eyes, threw in ejaculations of pity and affection.  Ambrose finished the narrative with
a broken voice indeed, but as one who had more self-command than his brother, perhaps than
his uncle, whose exclamations became bitter and angry as he heard of the treatment the boys
had experienced from their half-brother, who, as he said, he had always known as a currish
mean-spirited churl, but scarce such as this.

"Nor do I think he would have been, save for his wife, Maud Pratt of Hampton," said Ambrose.
"Nay, truly also, he deemed that we were only within a day's journey of council from our uncle
Richard at Hyde."

"Richard Birkenholt was a sturdy old comrade!  Methinks he would give Master Jack a piece of
his mind."

"Alack, good uncle, we found him in his dotage, and the bursar of Hyde made quick work with
us, for fear, good Father Shoveller said, that we were come to look after his corrody."

"Shoveller--what, a Shoveller of Cranbury?  How fell ye in with him?"

Ambrose told the adventures of their journey, and Randall exclaimed, "By my bau--I mean by
my faith--if ye have ill-luck in uncles, ye have had good luck in friends."

"No ill-luck in thee, good, kind uncle," said Stephen, catching at his hand with the sense
of comfort that kindred blood gives.

"How wottest thou that, child?  Did not I--I mean did not Merryman tell you, that mayhap ye
would not be willing to own your uncle?"

"We deemed he was but jesting," said Stephen.

For a sudden twinkle in the black eyes, an involuntary twist of the muscles of the face, were
a sudden revelation to him.  He clutched hold of Ambrose with a sudden grasp; Ambrose too looked
and recoiled for a moment, while the colour spread over his face.

"Yes, lads.  Can you brook the thought!--Harry Randall is the poor fool!"

Stephen, whose composure had already broken down, burst into tears again, perhaps mostly at
the downfall of all his own expectations and glorifications of the kinsman about whom he had
boasted.  Ambrose only exclaimed, "O uncle, you must have been hard pressed."  For indeed the
grave, almost melancholy man, who stood before them, regarding them wistfully, had little in
common with the lithe tumbler full of absurdities whom they had left at York House.

"Even so, my good lad.  Thou art right in that," said he gravely. "Harder than I trust will
ever be the lot of you two, my sweet Moll's sons.  She never guessed that I was come to this."

"O no," said Stephen.  "She always thought thou--thou hadst some high preferment in--"

"And so I have," said Randall with something of his ordinary humour. "There's no man dares
to speak such plain truth to my lord--or for that matter to King Harry himself, save his own
Jack-a-Lee--and he, being a fool of nature's own making, cannot use his chances, poor rogue!
And so the poor lads came up to London hoping to find a gallant captain who could bring them
to high preferment, and found nought but--Tom Fool!  I could find it in my heart to weep for
them!  And so thou mindest clutching the mistletoe on nunk Hal's shoulder.  I warrant it groweth
still on the crooked May bush?  And is old Bobbin alive?"

They answered his questions, but still as if under a great shock, and presently he said, as
they paced up and down the garden walks, "Ay, I have been sore bestead, and I'll tell you how
it came about, boys, and mayhap ye will pardon the poor fool, who would not own you sooner,
lest ye should come in for mockery ye have not learnt to brook."  There was a sadness and pleading
in his tone that touched Ambrose, and he drew nearer to his uncle, who laid a hand on his shoulder,
and presently the other on that of Stephen, who shrank a little at first, but submitted. "Lads,
I need not tell you why I left fair Shirley and the good greenwood.  I was a worse fool then
than ever I have been since I wore the cap and bells, and if all had been brought home to me,
it might have brought your father and mother into trouble--my sweet Moll who had done her best
for me.  I deemed, as you do now, that the way to fortune was open, but I found no path before
me, and I had tightened my belt many a time, and was not much more than a bag of bones, when,
by chance, I fell in with a company of tumblers and gleemen.  I sang them the old hunting-
song, and they said I did it tunably, and, whereas they saw I could already dance a hornpipe
and turn a somersault passably well, the leader of the troop, old Nat Fire-eater, took me on,
and methinks he did not repent--nor I neither--save when I sprained my foot and had time to
lie by and think.  We had plenty to fill our bellies and put on our backs; we had welcome wherever
we went, and the groats and pennies rained into our caps.  I was Clown and Jack Pudding and
whatever served their turn, and the very name of Quipsome Hal drew crowds.  Yea, 'twas a merry
life! Ay, I feel thee wince and shrink, my lad; and so should I have shuddered when I was of
thine age, and hoped to come to better things."

"Methinks 'twere better than this present," said Stephen rather gruffly.

"I had my reasons, boy," said Randall, speaking as if he were pleading his cause with their
father and mother rather than with two such young lads.  "There was in our company an old man-at-arms
who played the lute and the rebeck, and sang ballads so long as hand and voice served him,
and with him went his grandchild, a fair and honest little maiden, whom he kept so jealously
apart that 'twas long ere I knew of her following the company.  He had been a franklin on my
Lord of Warwick's lands, and had once been burnt out by Queen Margaret's men, and just as things
looked up again with him, King Edward's folk ruined all again, and slew his two sons.  When
great folk play the fool, small folk pay the scot, as I din into his Grace's ears whenever
I may.  A minion of the Duke of Clarence got the steading, and poor old Martin Fulford was
turned out to shift as best he might.  One son he had left, and with him he went to the Low
Countries, where they would have done well had they not been bitten by faith in the fellow
Perkin Warbeck.  You've heard of him?"

"Yea," said Ambrose; "the same who was taken out of sanctuary at Beaulieu, and borne off to
London.  Father said he was marvellous like in the face to all the kings he had ever seen hunting
in the Forest."

"I know not; but to the day of his death old Martin swore that he was a son of King Edward's,
and they came home again with the men the Duchess of Burgundy gave Perkin--came bag and baggage,
for young Fulford had wedded a fair Flemish wife, poor soul!  He left her with his father nigh
to Taunton ere the battle, and he was never heard of more, but as he was one of the few men
who knew how to fight, belike he was slain.  Thus old Martin was left with the Flemish wife
and her little one on his hands, for whose sake he did what went against him sorely, joined
himself to this troop of jugglers and players, so as to live by the minstrelsy he had learnt
in better days, while his daughter-in-law mended and made for the company and kept them in
smart and shining trim.  By the time I fell in with them his voice was well-nigh gone, and
his hand sorely shaking, but Fire-eating Nat, the master of our troop, was not an ill-natured
fellow, and the glee-women's feet were well used to his rebeck. Moreover, the Fire-eater had
an eye to little Perronel, though her mother had never let him train her--scarce let him set
an eye on her; and when Mistress Fulford died, poor soul, of ague, caught when we showed off
before the merry Prior of Worcester, her last words were that Perronel should never be a glee-maiden.
Well, to make an end of my tale, we had one day a mighty show at Windsor, when the King and
Court were at the castle, and it was whispered to me at the end that my Lord Archbishop's household
needed a jester, and that Quipsome Hal had been thought to make excellent fooling.  I gave
thanks at first, but said I would rather be a free man, not bound to be a greater fool than
Dame Nature made me all the hours of the day.  But when I got back to the Garter, what should
I find but that poor old Martin had been stricken with the dead palsy while he was playing
his rebeck, and would never twang a note more; and there was pretty Perronel weeping over him,
and Nat Fire-eater pledging his word to give the old man bed, board, and all that he could
need, if so be that Perronel should be trained to be one of his glee-maidens, to dance and
tumble and sing.  And there was the poor old franklin shaking his head more than the palsy
made it shake already, and trying to frame his lips to say, `rather they both should die.'"

"Oh, uncle, I wot now what thou didst!" cried Stephen.

"Yea, lad, there was nought else to be done.  I asked Master Fulford to give me Perronel, plighting
my word that never should she sing or dance for any one's pleasure save her own and mine, and
letting him know that I came of a worthy family.  We were wedded out of hand by the priest
that had been sent for to housel him, and in our true names.  The Fire- eater was fiery enough,
and swore that, wedded or not, I was bound to him, that he would have both of us, and would
not drag about a helpless old man unless he might have the wench to do his bidding.  I verily
believe that, but for my being on the watch and speaking a word to two or three stout yeomen
of the king's guard that chanced to be crushing a pot of sack at the Garter, he would have
played some villainous trick on us.  They gave a hint to my Lord of York's steward and he came
down and declared that the Archbishop required Quipsome Hal, and would--of his grace--send
a purse of nobles to the Fire-eater, wherewith he was to be off on the spot without more ado,
or he might find it the worse for him, and they, together with mine host's good wife, took
care that the rogue did not carry away Perronel with him, as he was like to have done.  To
end my story, here am I, getting showers of gold coins one day and nought but kicks and gibes
the next, while my good woman keeps house nigh here on the banks of the Thames with Gaffer
Martin.  Her Flemish thrift has set her to the washing and clear--starching of the lawyers'
ruffs, whereby she makes enough to supply the defects of my scanty days, or when I have to
follow my lord's grace out of her reach, sweet soul. There's my tale, nevoys.  And now, have
ye a hand for Quipsome Hal?"

"O uncle!  Father would have honoured thee!" cried Stephen.

"Why didst thou not bring her down to the Forest?" said Ambrose.

"I conned over the thought," said Randall, "but there was no way of living.  I wist not whether
the Ranger might not stir up old tales, and moreover old Martin is ill to move.  We brought
him down by boat from Windsor, and he has never quitted the house since, nor his bed for the
last two years.  You'll come and see the housewife?  She hath a supper laying out for you,
and on the way we'll speak of what ye are to do, my poor lads."

"I'd forgotten that," said Stephen.

"So had not I," returned his uncle; "I fear me I cannot aid you to preferment as you expected.
None know Quipsome Hal by any name but that of Harry Merryman, and it were not well that ye
should come in there as akin to the poor fool."

"No," said Stephen, emphatically.

"Your father left you twenty crowns apiece?"

"Ay, but John hath all save four of them."

"For that there's remedy.  What saidst thou of the Cheapside armourer? His fellow, the Wrymouth,
seemed to have a care of you.  Ye made in to the rescue with poor old Spring."

"Even so," replied Ambrose, "and if Stevie would brook the thought, I trow that Master Headley
would be quite willing to have him bound as his apprentice."

"Well said, my good lad!" cried Hal.  "What sayest thou, Stevie?"

"I had liefer be a man-at-arms."

"That thou couldst only be after being sorely knocked about as horse-boy and as groom.  I tried
that once, but found it meant kicks, and oaths, and vile company--such as I would not have
for thy mother's son, Steve. Headley is a well-reported, God-fearing man, and will do well
by thee. And thou wilt learn the use of arms as well as handle them."

"I like Master Headley and Kit Smallbones well enough," said Stephen, rather gloomily, "and
if a gentleman must be a prentice, weapons are not so bad a craft for him."

"Whittington was a gentleman," said Ambrose.

"I am sick of Whittington," muttered Stephen.

"Nor is he the only one," said Randall, "there's Middleton and Pole--ay, and many another who
have risen from the flat cap to the open helm, if not to the coronet.  Nay, these London companies
have rules against taking any prentice not of gentle blood.  Come in to supper with my good
woman, and then I'll go with thee and hold converse with good Master Headley, and if Master
John doth not send the fee freely, why then I know of them who shall make him disgorge it.
But mark," he added, as he led the way out of the gardens, "not a breath of Quipsome Hal. 
Down here they know me as a clerk of my lord's chamber, sad and sober, and high in his trust
and therein they are not far out."

In truth, though Harry Randall had been a wild and frolicsome youth in his Hampshire home,
the effect of being a professional buffoon had actually made it a relaxation of effort to him
to be grave, quiet, and slow in movement; and this was perhaps a more effectual disguise than
the dark garments, and the false brown hair, beard, and moustache, with which he concealed
the shorn and shaven condition required of the domestic jester.  Having been a player, he was
well able to adapt himself to his part, and yet Ambrose had considerable doubts whether Tibble
had not suspected his identity from the first, more especially as both the lads had inherited
the same dark eyes from their mother, and Ambrose for the first time perceived a considerable
resemblance between him and Stephen, not only in feature but in unconscious gesture.

Ambrose was considering whether he had better give his uncle a hint, lest concealment should
excite suspicion; when, niched as it were against an abutment of the wall of the Temple courts,
close to some steps going down to the Thames, they came upon a tiny house, at whose open door
stood a young woman in the snowiest of caps and aprons over a short black gown, beneath which
were a trim pair of blue hosen and stout shoes; a suspicion of yellow hair was allowed to appear
framing the honest, fresh, Flemish face, which beamed a good-humoured welcome.

"Here they be! here be the poor lads, Pernel mine."  She held out her hand, and offered a round
comfortable cheek to each, saying, "Welcome to London, young gentlemen."

Good Mistress Perronel did not look, exactly the stuff to make a glee- maiden of, nor even
the beauty for whom to sacrifice everything, even liberty and respect.  She was substantial
in form, and broad in face and mouth, without much nose, and with large almost colourless eyes.
But there was a wonderful look of heartiness and friendliness about her person and her house;
the boys had never in their lives seen anything so amazingly and spotlessly clean and shining.
In a corner stood an erection like a dark oaken cupboard or wardrobe, but in the middle was
an opening about a yard square through which could be seen the night- capped face of a white-headed
white-bearded old man, propped against snowy pillows.  To him Randall went at once, saying,
"So, gaffer, how goes it?  You see I have brought company, my poor sister's sons--rest her soul!"

Gaffer Martin mumbled something to them incomprehensible, but which the jester comprehended,
for he called them up and named them to him, and Martin put out a bony hand, and gave them
a greeting.  Though his speech and limbs had failed him, his intelligence was evidently still
intact, and there was a tenderly-cared-for look about him, rendering his condition far less
pitiable than that of Richard Birkenholt, who was so palpably treated as an incumbrance.

The table was already covered with a cloth, and Perronel quickly placed on it a yellow bowl
of excellent beef broth, savoury with vegetables and pot-herbs, and with meat and dumplings
floating in it.  A lesser bowl was provided for each of the company, with horn spoons, and
a loaf of good wheaten bread, and a tankard of excellent ale.  Randall declared that his Perronel
made far daintier dishes than my Lord Archbishop's cook, who went every day in silk and velvet.

He explained to her his views on the armourer, to which she agreed with all her might, the
old gentleman in bed adding something which the boys began to understand, that there was no
worthier nor more honourable condition than that of an English burgess, specially in the good
town of London, where the kings knew better than to be ever at enmity with their good towns.

"Will the armourer take both of you?" asked Mistress Randall.

"Nay, it was only for Stephen we devised it," said Ambrose.

"And what wilt thou do?"

"I wish to be a scholar," said Ambrose.

"A lean trade," quoth the jester; "a monk now or a friar may be a right jolly fellow, but I
never yet saw a man who throve upon books!"

"I had rather study than thrive," said Ambrose rather dreamily.

"He wotteth not what he saith," cried Stephen.

"Oh ho! so thou art of that sort!" rejoined his uncle.  "I know them!  A crabbed black and
white page is meat and drink to them!  There's that Dutch fellow, with a long Latin name, thin
and weazen as never was Dutchman before; they say he has read all the books in the world, and
can talk in all the tongues, and yet when he and Sir Thomas More and the Dean of Saint Paul's
get together at my lord's table one would think they were bidding for my bauble.  Such excellent
fooling do they make, that my lord sits holding his sides."

"The Dean of Saint Paul's!" said Ambrose, experiencing a shock.

"Ay!  He's another of your lean scholars, and yet he was born a wealthy man, son to a Lord
Mayor, who, they say, reared him alone out of a round score of children."

"Alack! poor souls," sighed Mistress Randall under her breath, for, as Ambrose afterwards learnt,
her two babes had scarce seen the light.  Her husband, while giving her a look of affection,
went on--"Not that he can keep his wealth.  He has bestowed the most of it on Stepney church,
and on the school he hath founded for poor children, nigh to Saint Paul's."

"Could I get admittance to that school?" exclaimed Ambrose.

"Thou art a big fellow for a school," said his uncle, looking him over. "However, faint heart
never won fair lady."

"I have a letter from the Warden of Saint Elizabeth's to one of the clerks of Saint Paul's,"
added Ambrose.  "Alworthy is his name."

"That's well.  We'll prove that same," said his uncle.  "Meantime, if ye have eaten your fill,
we must be on our way to thine armourer, nevoy Stephen, or I shall be called for."

And after a private colloquy between the husband and wife, Ambrose was by both of them desired
to make the little house his home until he could find admittance into Saint Paul's School,
or some other.  He demurred somewhat from a mixture of feelings, in which there was a certain
amount of Stephen's longing for freedom of action, and likewise a doubt whether he should not
thus be a great inconvenience in the tiny household--a burden he was resolved not to be.  But
his uncle now took a more serious tone.

"Look thou, Ambrose, thou art my sister's son, and fool though I be, thou art bound in duty
to me, and I to have charge of thee, nor will I-- for the sake of thy father and mother--have
thee lying I know not where, among gulls, and cutpurses, and beguilers of youth here in this
city of London.  So, till better befalls thee, and I wot of it, thou must be here no later
than curfew, or I will know the reason why."

"And I hope the young gentleman will find it no sore grievance," said Perronel, so good-humouredly
that Ambrose could only protest that he had feared to be troublesome to her, and promise to
bring his bundle the next day.

CHAPTER NINE.

ARMS SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

  "For him was leifer to have at his bedde's hedde
  Twenty books clothed in blacke or redde
  Of Aristotle and his philosophie
  Than robes riche or fiddle or psalterie."
  Chaucer.

Master Headley was found spending the summer evening in the bay window of the hall.  Tibble
sat on a three-legged stool by him, writing in a crabbed hand, in a big ledger, and Kit Smallbones
towered above both, holding in his hand a bundle of tally-sticks.  By the help of these, and
of that accuracy of memory which writing has destroyed, he was unfolding, down to the very
last farthing, the entire account of payments and receipts during his master's absence, the
debtor and creditor account being preserved as perfectly as if he had always had a pen in his
huge fingers, and studied book-keeping by double or single entry.

On the return of the two boys with such an apparently respectable member of society as the
handsome well-dressed personage who accompanied them, little Dennet, who had been set to sew
her sampler on a stool by her grandmother, under penalty of being sent off to bed if she disturbed
her father, sprang up with a little cry of gladness, and running up to Ambrose, entreated for
the tales of his good greenwood Forest, and the pucks and pixies, and the girl who daily shared
her breakfast with a snake and said, "Eat your own side, Speckleback."  Somehow, on Sunday
night she had gathered that Ambrose had a store of such tales, and she dragged him off to the
gallery, there to revel in them, while his brother remained with her father.

Though Master Stephen had begun by being high and mighty about mechanical crafts, and thought
it a great condescension to consent to be bound apprentice, yet when once again in the Dragon
court, it looked so friendly and felt so much like a home that he found himself very anxious
that Master Headley should not say that he could take no more apprentices at present, and that
he should be satisfied with the terms uncle Hal would propose.  And oh! suppose Tibble should
recognise Quipsome Hal!

However, Tibble was at this moment entirely engrossed by the accounts, and his master left
him and his big companion to unravel them, while he himself held speech with his guest at some
distance--sending for a cup of sack, wherewith to enliven the conversation.

He showed himself quite satisfied with what Randall chose to tell of himself as a well known
"housekeeper" close to the Temple, his wife a "lavender" there, while he himself was attached
to the suite of the Archbishop of York.  Here alone was there any approach to shuffling, for
Master Headley was left to suppose that Randall attended Wolsey in his capacity of king's counsellor,
and therefore, having a house of his own, had not been found in the roll of the domestic retainers
and servants. He did not think of inquiring further, the more so as Randall was perfectly candid
as to his own inferiority of birth to the Birkenholt family, and the circumstances under which
he had left the Forest.

Master Headley professed to be quite willing to accept Stephen as an apprentice, with or without
a fee; but he agreed with Randall that it would be much better not to expose him to having
it cast in his teeth that he was accepted out of charity; and Randall undertook to get a letter
so written and conveyed to John Birkenholt that he should not dare to withhold the needful
sum, in earnest of which Master Headley would accept the two crowns that Stephen had in hand,
as soon as the indentures could be drawn out by one of the many scriveners who lived about
Saint Paul's.

This settled, Randall could stay no longer, but he called both nephews into the court with
him.  "Ye can write a letter?" he said.

"Ay, sure, both of us; but Ambrose is the best scribe," said Stephen.

"One of you had best write then.  Let that cur John know that I have my Lord of York's ear,
and there will be no fear but he will give it.  I'll find a safe hand among the clerks, when
the judges ride to hold the assize.  Mayhap Ambrose might also write to the Father at Beaulieu.
The thing had best be bruited."

"I wished to do so," said Ambrose.  "It irked me to have taken no leave of the good Fathers."

Randall then took his leave, having little more than time to return to York House, where the
Archbishop might perchance come home wearied and chafed from the King, and the jester might
be missed if not there to put him in good humour.

The curfew sounded, and though attention to its notes was not compulsory by law, it was regarded
as the break-up of the evening and the note of recall in all well-ordered establishments. 
The apprentices and journeymen came into the court, among them Giles Headley, who had been
taken out by one of the men to be provided with a working dress, much to his disgust; the grandmother
summoned little Dennet and carried her off to bed.  Stephen and Ambrose bade good-night, but
Master Headley and his two confidential men remained somewhat longer to wind up their accounts.
Doors were not, as a rule, locked within the court, for though it contained from forty to fifty
persons, they were all regarded as a single family, and it was enough to fasten the heavily
bolted, iron- studded folding doors of the great gateway leading into Cheapside, the key being
brought to the master like that of a castle, seven minutes, measured by the glass, after the
last note of the curfew in the belfry outside Saint Paul's.

The summer twilight, however, lasted long after this time of grace, and when Tibble had completed
his accountant's work, and Smallbones' deep voiced "Good-night, comrade," had resounded over
the court, he beheld a figure rise up from the steps of the gallery, and Ambrose's voice said:
"May I speak to thee, Tibble?  I need thy counsel."

"Come hither, sir," said the foreman, muttering to himself, "Methought 'twas working in him!
The leaven! the leaven!"

Tibble led the way up one of the side stairs into the open gallery, where he presently opened
a door, admitting to a small, though high chamber, the walls of bare brick, and containing
a low bed, a small table, a three-legged stool, a big chest, and two cupboards, also a cross
over the head of the bed.  A private room was a luxury neither possessed nor desired by most
persons of any degree, and only enjoyed by Tibble in consideration of his great value to his
master, his peculiar tastes, and the injuries he had received.  In point of fact, his fall
had been owing to a hasty blow, given in a passion by the master himself when a young man.
Dismay and repentance had made Giles Headley a cooler and more self-controlled man ever since,
and even if Tibble had not been a superior workman, he might still have been free to do almost
anything he chose.  Tibble gave his visitor the stool, and himself sat down on the chest, saying:
"So you have found your uncle, sir."

"Ay," said Ambrose, pausing in some expectation that Tibble would mention some suspicion of
his identity; but if the foreman had his ideas on the subject he did not disclose them, and
waited for more communications.

"Tibble!" said Ambrose, with a long gasp, "I must find means to hear more of him thou tookedst
me to on Sunday."

"None ever truly tasted of that well without longing to come back to it," quoth Tibble.  "But
hath not thy kinsman done aught for thee?"

"Nay," said Ambrose, "save to offer me a lodging with his wife, a good and kindly lavender
at the Temple."

Tibble nodded.

"So far am I free," said Ambrose, "and I am glad of it.  I have a letter here to one of the
canons, one Master Alworthy, but ere I seek him I would know somewhat from thee, Tibble.  What
like is he?"

"I cannot tell, sir," said Tibble.  "The canons are rich and many, and a poor smith like me
wots little of their fashions."

"Is it true," again asked Ambrose, "that the Dean--he who spake those words yesterday--hath
a school here for young boys?"

"Ay.  And a good and mild school it be, bringing them up in the name and nurture of the Holy
Child Jesus, to whom it is dedicated."

"Then they are taught this same doctrine?"

"I trow they be.  They say the Dean loves them like the children of his old age, and declares
that they shall be made in love with holy lore by gentleness rather than severity."

"Is it likely that this same Alworthy could obtain me entrance there?"

"Alack, sir, I fear me thou art too old.  I see none but little lads among them.  Didst thou
come to London with that intent?"

"Nay, for I only wist to-day that there was such a school.  I came with I scarce know what
purpose, save to see Stephen safely bestowed, and then to find some way of learning myself.
Moreover, a change seems to have come on me, as though I had hitherto been walking in a dream."

Tibble nodded, and Ambrose, sitting there in the dark, was moved to pour forth all his heart,
the experience of many an ardent soul in those spirit searching days.  Growing up happily under
the care of the simple monks of Beaulieu he had never looked beyond their somewhat mechanical
routine, accepted everything implicitly, and gone on acquiring knowledge with the receptive
spirit but dormant thought of studious boyhood as yet unawakened, thinking that the studious
clerical life to which every one destined him would only be a continuation of the same, as
indeed it had been to his master, Father Simon.  Not that Ambrose expressed this, beyond saying,
"They are good and holy men, and I thought all were like them, and fear that was all!"

Then came death, for the first time nearly touching and affecting the youth, and making his
soul yearn after further depths, which he might yet have found in the peace of the good old
men, and the holy rites and doctrine that they preserved; but before there was time for these
things to find their way into the wounds of his spirit, his expulsion from home had sent him
forth to see another side of monkish and clerkly life.

Father Shoveller, kindly as he was, was a mere yeoman with nothing spiritual about him; the
monks of Hyde were, the younger, gay comrades, only trying how loosely they could sit to their
vows; the elder, churlish and avaricious; even the Warden of Elizabeth College was little more
than a student.  And in London, fresh phases had revealed themselves; the pomp, state, splendour
and luxury of Archbishop Wolsey's house had been a shock to the lad's ideal of a bishop drawn
from the saintly biographies he had studied at Beaulieu; and he had but to keep his ears open
to hear endless scandals about the mass-priests, as they were called, since they were at this
time very unpopular in London, and in many cases deservedly so.  Everything that the boy had
hitherto thought the way of holiness and salvation seemed invaded by evil and danger, and under
the bondage of death, whose terrible dance continued to haunt him.

"I saw it, I saw it," he said, "all over those halls at York House.  I seemed to behold the
grisly shape standing behind one and another, as they ate and laughed; and when the Archbishop
and his priests and the King came in it seemed only to make the pageant complete!  Only now
and then could I recall those blessed words, `Ye are free indeed.'  Did he say from the bondage
of death?"

"Yea," said Tibble, "into the glorious freedom of God's children."

"Thou knowst it.  Thou knowst it, Tibble.  It seems to me that life is no life, but living
death, without that freedom!  And I must hear of it, and know whether it is mine, yea, and
Stephen's, and all whom I love.  O Tibble, I would beg my bread rather than not have that freedom
ever before mine eyes."

"Hold it fast! hold it fast, dear sir," said Tibble, holding out his hands with tears in his
eyes, and his face working in a manner that happily Ambrose could not see.

"But how--how?  The barefoot friar said that for an Ave a day, our Blessed Lady will drag us
back from purgatory.  I saw her on the wall of her chapel at Winchester saving a robber knight
from the sea, yea and a thief from the gallows; but that is not being free."

"Fond inventions of pardon-mongers," muttered Tibble.

"And is one not free when the priest hath assoilsied him?" added Ambrose.

"If, and if--" said Tibble.  "But none shall make me trow that shrift in words, without heart--sorrow
for sin, and the Latin heard with no thought of Him that bore the guilt, can set the sinner
free.  'Tis none other that the Dean sets forth, ay, and the book that I have here.  I thank
my God," he stood up and took off his cap reverently, "that He hath opened the eyes of another!"

His tone was such that Ambrose could have believed him some devout almost inspired hermit rather
than the acute skilful artisan he appeared at other times; and in fact, Tibble Steelman, like
many another craftsman of those days, led a double life, the outer one that of the ordinary
workman, the inner one devoted to those lights that were shining unveiled and new to in any;
and especially here in the heart of the City, partly from the influence of Dean Colet's sermons
and catechisings at Saint Paul's, but also from remnants of Lollardism, which had never been
entirely quenched.  The ordinary clergy looked at it with horror, but the intelligent and thoughtful
of the burgher and craftsman classes studied it with a passionate fervour which might have
sooner broken out and in more perilous forms save for the guidance it received in the truly
Catholic and open-spirited public teachings of Colet, in which he persisted in spite of the
opposition of his brother clergy.

Not that as yet the inquirers had in the slightest degree broken with the system of the Church,
or with her old traditions.  They were only beginning to see the light that had been veiled
from them, and to endeavour to clear the fountain from the mire that had fouled it; and there
was as yet no reason to believe that the aspersions continually made against the mass-priests
and the friars were more than the chronic grumblings of Englishmen, who had found the same
faults in them for the last two hundred years.

"And what wouldst thou do, young sir?" presently inquired Tibble.

"That I came to ask thee, good Tibble.  I would work to the best of my power in any craft so
I may hear those words and gain the key to all I have hitherto learnt, unheeding as one in
a dream.  My purpose had been to be a scholar and a clerk, but I must see mine own way, and
know whither I am being carried, ere I can go farther."

Tibble writhed and wriggled himself about in consideration.  "I would I wist how to take thee
to the Dean himself," he said, "but I am but a poor man, and his doctrine is `new wine in old
bottles' to the master, though he be a right good man after his lights.  See now, Master Ambrose,
me seemeth that thou hadst best take thy letter first to this same priest.  It may be that
he can prefer thee to some post about the minster.  Canst sing?"

"I could once, but my voice is nought at this present.  If I could but be a servitor at Saint
Paul's School!"

"It might be that the will which hath led thee so far hath that post in store for thee, so
bear the letter to Master Alworthy.  And if he fail thee, wouldst thou think scorn of aiding
a friend of mine who worketh a printing-press in Warwick Inner Ward?  Thou wilt find him at
his place in Paternoster Row, hard by Saint Paul's.  He needeth one who is clerk enough to
read the Latin, and the craft being a new one 'tis fenced by none of those prentice laws that
would bar the way to thee elsewhere, at thy years."

"I should dwell among books!"

"Yea, and holy books, that bear on the one matter dear to the true heart.  Thou might serve
Lucas Hansen at the sign of the Winged Staff till thou hast settled thine heart, and then it
may be the way would be opened to study at Oxford or at Cambridge, so that thou couldst expound
the faith to others."

"Good Tibble, kind Tibble, I knew thou couldst aid me!  Wilt thou speak to this Master Hansen
for me?"

Tibble, however, held that it was more seemly that Ambrose should first try his fate with Master
Alworthy, but in case of this not succeeding, he promised to write a billet that would secure
attention from Lucas Hansen.

"I warn thee, however, that he is Low Dutch," he added, "though he speaketh English well."
He would gladly have gone with the youth, and at any other time might have been sent by his
master, but the whole energies of the Dragon would be taken up for the next week by preparations
for the tilting-match at court, and Tibble could not be spared for another working hour.

Ambrose, as he rose to bid his friend good-night, could not help saying that he marvelled that
one such as he could turn his mind to such vanities as the tilt-yard required.

"Nay," said Tibble, "'twas the craft I was bred to--yea, and I have a good master; and the
Apostle Paul himself--as I've heard a preacher say--bade men continue in the state wherein
they were, and not be curious to chop and change.  Who knoweth whether in God's sight, all
our wars and policies be no more than the games of the tilt-yard.  Moreover, Paul himself made
these very weapons read as good a sermon as the Dean himself.  Didst never hear of the shield
of faith, and helmet of salvation, and breastplate of righteousness?  So, if thou comest to
Master Hansen, and provest worthy of his trust, thou wilt hear more, ay, and maybe read too
thyself, and send forth the good seed to others," he murmured to himself, as he guided his
visitor across the moonlit court up the stairs to the chamber where Stephen lay fast asleep.

CHAPTER TEN.

TWO VOCATIONS.

Stephen's first thought in the morning was whether the ex voto effigy of poor Spring was put
in hand, while Ambrose thought of Tibble's promised commendation to the printer.  They both,
however, found their affairs must needs wait.  Orders for weapons for the tilting-match had
come in so thickly the day before that every hand must be employed on executing them, and the
Dragon court was ringing again with the clang of hammers and screech of grind-stones.

Stephen, though not yet formally bound, was to enter on his apprentice life at once; and Ambrose
was assured by Master Headley that it was of no use to repair to any of the dignified clergy
of Saint Paul's before mid-day, and that he had better employ the time in writing to his elder
brother respecting the fee.  Materials were supplied to him, and he used them so as to do credit
to the monks of Beaulieu, in spite of little Dennet spending every spare moment in watching
his pen as if he were performing some cabalistic operation.

He was a long time about it.  There were two letters to write, and the wording of them needed
to be very careful, besides that the old court hand took more time to frame than the Italian
current hand, and even thus, when dinner-time came, at ten o'clock, the household was astonished
to find that he had finished all that regarded Stephen, though he had left the letters open,
until his own venture should have been made.

Stephen flung himself down beside his brother hot and panting, shaking his shoulder-blades
and declaring that his arms felt ready to drop out. He had been turning a grindstone ever since
six o'clock.  The two new apprentices had been set on to sharpening the weapon points as all
that they were capable of, and had been bidden by Smallbones to turn and hold alternately,
but "that oaf Giles Headley," said Stephen, "never ground but one lance, and made me go on
turning, threatening to lay the butt about mine ears if I slacked."

"The lazy lubber!" cried Ambrose.  "But did none see thee, or couldst not call out for redress?"

"Thou art half a wench thyself, Ambrose, to think I'd complain. Besides, he stood on his rights
as a master, and he is a big fellow."

"That's true," said Ambrose, "and he might make it the worse for thee."

"I would I were as big as he," sighed Stephen, "I would soon show him which was the better man."

Perhaps the grinding match had not been as unobserved as Stephen fancied, for on returning
to work, Smallbones, who presided over all the rougher parts of the business, claimed them
both.  He set Stephen to stand by him, sort out and hand him all the rivets needed for a suit
of proof armour that hung on a frame, while he required Giles to straighten bars of iron heated
to a white heat.  Ere long Giles called out for Stephen to change places, to which Smallbones
coolly replied, "Turnabout is the rule here, master."

"Even so," replied Giles, "and I have been at work like this long enough, ay, and too long!"

"Thy turn was a matter of three hours this morning," replied Kit--not coolly, for nobody was
cool in his den, but with a brevity which provoked a laugh.

"I shall see what my cousin the master saith!" cried Giles, in great wrath.

"Ay, that thou wilt," returned Kit, "if thou dost loiter over thy business, and hast not those
bars ready when called for."

"He never meant me to be put on work like this, with a hammer that breaks mine arm."

"What! crying out for that!" said Edmund Burgess, who had just come in to ask for a pair of
tongs.  "What wouldst say to the big hammer that none can wield save Kit himself?"

Giles felt there was no redress, and panted on, feeling as if he were melting away, and with
a dumb, wild rage in his heart, that could get no outlet, for Smallbones was at least as much
bigger than he as he was than Stephen.  Tibble was meanwhile busy over the gilding and enamelling
of Buckingham's magnificent plate armour in Italian fashion, but he had found time to thrust
into Ambrose's hand an exceedingly small and curiously folded billet for Lucas Hansen, the
printer, in case of need. "He would be found at the sign of the Winged Staff in Paternoster
Row," said Tibble, "or if not there himself, there would be his servant who would direct Ambrose
to the place where the Dutch printer lived and worked."  No one was at leisure to show the
lad the way, and he set out with a strange feeling of solitude, as his path began decisively
to be away from that of his brother.

He did not find much difficulty in discovering the quadrangle on the south side of the minster
where the minor canons lived near the deanery; and the porter, a stout lay brother, pointed
out to him the doorway belonging to Master Alworthy.  He knocked, and a young man with a tonsured
head but a bloated face opened it.  Ambrose explained that he had brought a letter from the
Warden of Saint Elizabeth's College at Winchester.

"Give it here," said the young man.

"I would give it to his reverence himself," said Ambrose.

"His reverence is taking his after-dinner nap and may not be disturbed," said the man.

"Then I will wait," said Ambrose.

The door was shut in his face, but it was the shady side of the court, and he sat down on a
bench and waited.  After full an hour the door was opened, and the canon, a good-natured looking
man, in a square cap, and gown and cassock of the finest cloth, came slowly out.  He had evidently
heard nothing of the message, and was taken by surprise when Ambrose, doffing his cap and bowing
low, gave him the greeting of the Warden of Saint Elizabeth's and the letter.

"Hum!  Ha!  My good friend--Fielder--I remember him.  He was always a scholar.  So he hath
sent thee here with his commendations.  What should I do with all the idle country lads that
come up to choke London and feed the plague?  Yet stay--that lurdane Bolt is getting intolerably
lazy and insolent, and methinks he robs me!  What canst do, thou stripling?"

"I can read Latin, sir, and know the Greek alphabeta."

"Tush!  I want no scholar more than enough to serve my mass.  Canst sing?"

"Not now; but I hope to do so again."

"When I rid me of Bolt there--and there's an office under the sacristan that he might fill
as well as another knave--the fellow might do for me well enow as a body servant," said Mr
Alworthy, speaking to himself. "He would brush my gowns and make my bed, and I might perchance
trust him with my marketings, and by and by there might be some office for him when he grew
saucy and idle.  I'll prove him on mine old comrade's word."

"Sir," said Ambrose, respectfully, "what I seek for is occasion for study.  I had hoped you
could speak to the Dean, Dr John Colet, for some post at his school."

"Boy," said Alworthy, "I thought thee no such fool!  Why crack thy brains with study when I
can show thee a surer path to ease and preferment?  But I see thou art too proud to do an old
man a service. Thou writst thyself gentleman, forsooth, and high blood will not stoop."

"Not so, sir," returned Ambrose, "I would work in any way so I could study the humanities,
and hear the Dean preach.  Cannot you commend me to his school?"

"Ha!" exclaimed the canon, "this is your sort, is it?  I'll have nought to do with it!  Preaching,
preaching!  Every idle child's head is agog on preaching nowadays!  A plague on it!  Why can't
Master Dean leave it to the black friars, whose vocation 'tis, and not cumber us with his sermons
for ever, and set every lazy lad thinking he must needs run after them?  No, no, my good boy,
take my advice.  Thou shalt have two good bellyfuls a day, all my cast gowns, and a pair of
shoes by the year, with a groat a month if thou wilt keep mine house, bring in my meals, and
the like, and by and by, so thou art a good lad, and runst not after these new-fangled preachments
which lead but to heresy, and set folk racking their brains about sin and such trash, we'll
get thee shorn and into minor orders, and who knows what good preferment thou mayst not win
in due time!"

"Sir, I am beholden to you, but my mind is set on study."

"What kin art thou to a fool?" cried the minor canon, so startling Ambrose that he had almost
answered, and turning to another ecclesiastic whose siesta seemed to have ended about the same
time, "Look at this varlet, Brother Cloudesley!  Would you believe it?  He comes to me with
a letter from mine old friend, in consideration of which I offer him that saucy lubber Bolt's
place, a gown of mine own a year, meat and preferment, and, lo you, he tells me all he wants
is to study Greek, forsooth, and hear the Dean's sermons!"

The other canon shook his head in dismay at such arrant folly.  "Young stripling, be warned,"
he said.  "Know what is good for thee.  Greek is the tongue of heresy."

"How may that be, reverend sir," said Ambrose, "when the holy Apostles and the Fathers spake
and wrote in the Greek?"

"Waste not thy time on him, brother," said Mr Alworthy.  "He will find out his error when his
pride and his Greek forsooth have brought him to fire and faggot."

"Ay! ay!" added Cloudesley.  "The Dean with his Dutch friend and his sermons, and his new grammar
and accidence, is sowing heretics as thick as groundsel."

Wherewith the two canons of the old school waddled away, arm in arm, and Bolt put out his head,
leered at Ambrose, and bade him shog off, and not come sneaking after other folk's shoes.

Sooth to say, Ambrose was relieved by his rejection.  If he were not to obtain admission in
any capacity to Saint Paul's School, he felt more drawn to Tibble's friend the printer; for
the self-seeking luxurious habits into which so many of the beneficed clergy had fallen were
repulsive to him, and his whole soul thirsted after that new revelation, as it were, which
Colet's sermon had made to him.  Yet the word heresy was terrible and confusing, and a doubt
came over him whether he might not be forsaking the right path, and be lured aside by false lights.

He would think it out before he committed himself.  Where should he do so in peace?  He thought
of the great Minster, but the nave was full of a surging multitude, and there was a loud hum
of voices proceeding from it, which took from him all inclination to find his way to the quieter
and inner portions of the sanctuary.

Then he recollected the little Pardon Church, where he had seen the Dance of Death on the walls;
and crossing the burial-ground he entered, and, as he expected, found it empty, since the hours
for masses for the dead were now past.  He knelt down on a step, repeated the sext office,
in warning for which the bells were chiming all round, covering his face with his hands, and
thinking himself back to Beaulieu; then, seating himself on a step, leaning against the wall,
he tried to think out whether to give himself up to the leadings of the new light that had
broken on him, or whether to wrench himself from it.  Was this, which seemed to him truth and
deliverance, verily the heresy respecting which rumours had come to horrify the country convents?
If he had only heard of it from Tibble Wrymouth, he would have doubted, in spite of its power
over him, but he had heard it from a man, wise, good, and high in place, like Dean Colet. 
Yet to his further perplexity, his uncle had spoken of Colet as jesting at Wolsey's table.
What course should he take?  Could he bear to turn away from that which drew his soul so powerfully,
and return to the bounds which seem to him to be grown so narrow, but which he was told were
safe?  Now that Stephen was settled, it was open to him to return to Saint Elizabeth's College,
but the young soul within him revolted against the repetition of what had become to him unsatisfying,
unless illumined by the brightness he seemed to have glimpsed at.

But Ambrose had gone through much unwonted fatigue of late, and while thus musing he fell asleep,
with his head against the wall.  He was half wakened by the sound of voices, and presently
became aware that two persons were examining the walls, and comparing the paintings with some
others, which one of them had evidently seen.  If he had known it, it was with the Dance of
Death on the bridge of Lucerne.

"I question," said a voice that Ambrose had heard before, "whether these terrors be wholesome
for men's souls."

"For priests' pouches, they be," said the other, with something of a foreign accent.

"Alack, when shall we see the day when the hope of paradise and dread of purgatory shall be
no longer made the tools of priestly gain; and hatred of sin taught to these poor folk, instead
of servile dread of punishment."

"Have a care, my Colet," answered the yellow bearded foreigner; "thou art already in ill odour
with those same men in authority; and though a Dean's stall be fenced from the episcopal crook,
yet there is a rod at Rome which can reach even thither."

"I tell thee, dear Erasmus, thou art too timid; I were well content to leave house and goods,
yea, to go to prison or to death, could I but bring home to one soul, for which Christ died,
the truth and hope in every one of those prayers and creeds that our poor folk are taught to
patter as a senseless charm."

"These are strange times," returned Erasmus.  "Methinks yonder phantom, be he skeleton or angel,
will have snatched both of us away ere we behold the full issue either of thy preachings, or
my Greek Testament, or of our More's Utopian images.  Dost thou not feel as though we were
like children who have set some mighty engine in motion, like the great water-wheels in my
native home, which, whirled by the flowing streams of time and opinion, may break up the whole
foundations, and destroy the oneness of the edifice?"

"It may be so," returned Colet.  "What read we?  `The net brake' even in the Master's sight,
while still afloat on the sea.  It was only on the shore that the hundred and fifty-three,
all good and sound, were drawn to His feet."

"And," returned Erasmus, "I see wherefore thou hast made thy children at Saint Paul's one hundred
and fifty and three."

The two friends were passing out.  Their latter speeches had scarce been understood by Ambrose,
even if he heard them, so full was he of conflicting feelings, now ready to cast himself before
their feet, and entreat the Dean to help him to guidance, now withheld by bashfulness, unwillingness
to interrupt, and ingenuous shame at appearing like an eavesdropper towards such dignified
and venerable personages.  Had he obeyed his first impulse, mayhap his career had been made
safer and easier for him, but it was while shyness chained his limbs and tongue that the Dean
and Erasmus quitted the chapel, and the opportunity of accosting them had slipped away.

Their half comprehended words had however decided him in the part he should take, making him
sure that Colet was not controverting the formularies of the Church, but drawing out those
meanings which in repetition by rote were well-nigh forgotten.  It was as if his course were
made clear to him.

He was determined to take the means which most readily presented themselves of hearing Colet;
and leaving the chapel, he bent his steps to the Row which his book-loving eye had already
marked.  Flanking the great Cathedral on the north, was the row of small open stalls devoted
to the sale of books, or "objects of devotion," all so arranged that the open portion might
be cleared, and the stock-in-trade locked up if not carried away.  Each stall had its own sign,
most of them sacred, such as the Lamb and Flag, the Scallop Shell, or some patron saint, but
classical emblems were oddly intermixed, such as Minerva's aegis, Pegasus, and the Lyre of
Apollo.  The sellers, some middle-aged men, some lads, stretched out their arms with their
wares to attract the passengers in the street, and did not fail to beset Ambrose.  The more
lively looked at his Lincoln-green and shouted verses of ballads at him, fluttering broad sheets
with verses on the lamentable fate of Jane Shore, or Fair Rosamond, the same woodcut doing
duty for both ladies, without mercy to their beauty.  The scholastic judged by his face and
step that he was a student, and they flourished at him black-bound copies of Virgilius Maro,
and of Tully's Offices, while others, hoping that he was an incipient clerk, offered breviaries,
missals or portuaries, with the Use of Saint Paul's, or of Sarum, or mayhap Saint Austin's
Confessions.  He made his way along, with his eye diligently heedful of the signs, and at last
recognised the Winged Staff or caduceus of Hermes, over a stall where a couple of boys in blue
caps and gowns and yellow stockings were making a purchase of a small, grave- looking, elderly
but bright cheeked man, whose yellow hair and beard were getting intermingled with grey.  They
were evidently those Saint Paul's School boys whom Ambrose envied so much, and as they finished
their bargaining and ran away together, Ambrose advanced with a salutation, asked if he did
not see Master Lucas Hansen, and gave him the note with the commendations of Tibble Steelman
the armourer.

He was answered with a ready nod and "yea, yea," as the old man opened the billet and cast
his eyes over it; then scanning Ambrose from head to foot, said with some amazement, "But you
are of gentle blood, young sir."

"I am," said Ambrose; "but gentle blood needs at times to work for bread, and Tibble let me
hope that I might find both livelihood for the body and for the soul with you, sir."

"Is it so?" asked the printer, his face lighting up.  "Art thou willing to labour and toil,
and give up hope of fee and honour, if so thou mayst win the truth?"

Ambrose folded his hands with a gesture of earnestness, and Lucas Hansen said, "Bless thee,
my son!  Methinks I can aid thee in thy quest, so thou canst lay aside," and here his voice
grew sharper and more peremptory, "all thy gentleman's airs and follies, and serve--ay, serve
and obey."

"I trust so," returned Ambrose; "my brother is even now becoming prentice to Master Giles Headley,
and we hope to live as honest men by the work of our hands and brains."

"I forgot that you English herren are not so puffed up with pride and scorn like our Dutch
nobles," returned the printer.  "Canst live sparingly, and lie hard, and see that thou keepst
the house clean, not like these English swine?"

"I hope so," said Ambrose, smiling; "but I have an uncle and aunt, and they would have me lie
every night at their house beside the Temple gardens."

"What is thine uncle?"

"He hath a post in the meine of my Lord Archbishop of York," said Ambrose, blushing and hesitating
a little.  "He cometh to and fro to his wife, who dwells with her old father, doing fine lavender's
work for the lawyer folk therein."

It was somewhat galling that this should be the most respectable occupation that could be put
forward, but Lucas Hansen was evidently reassured by it.  He next asked whether Ambrose could
read Latin, putting a book into his hand as he did so; Ambrose read and construed readily,
explaining that he had been trained at Beaulieu.

"That is well!" said the printer; "and hast thou any Greek?"

"Only the alphabeta," said Ambrose, "I made that out from a book at Beaulieu, but Father Simon
knew no more, and there was nought to study from."

"Even so," replied Hansen, "but little as thou knowst 'tis as much as I can hope for from any
who will aid me in my craft.  'Tis I that, as thou hast seen, furnish for the use of the children
at the Dean's school of Saint Paul's.  The best and foremost scholars of them are grounded
in their Greek, that being the tongue wherein the Holy Gospels were first writ.  Hitherto I
have had to get me books for their use from Holland, whither they are brought from Basle, but
I have had sent me from Hamburg a fount of type of the Greek character, whereby I hope to print
at home, the accidence, and mayhap the Dialogues of Plato, and it might even be the sacred
Gospel itself, which the great Doctor, Master Erasmus, is even now collating from the best
authorities in the universities."

Ambrose's eyes kindled with unmistakable delight.  "You have the accidence!" he exclaimed.
"Then could I study the tongue even while working for you!  Sir, I would do my best!  It is
the very opportunity I seek."

"Fair and softly," said the printer with something of a smile.  "Thou art new to cheapening
and bargaining, my fair lad.  Thou hast spoken not one word of the wage."

"I recked not of that," said Ambrose.  "'Tis true, I may not burthen mine uncle and aunt, but
verily, sir, I would live on the humblest fare that will keep body and soul together so that
I may have such an opportunity."

"How knowst thou what the opportunity may be?" returned Lucas, drily. "Thou art but a babe!
Some one should have a care of thee.  If I set thee to stand here all day and cry what d'ye
lack? or to carry bales of books 'twixt this and Warwick Inner Ward, thou wouldst have no ground
to complain."

"Nay, sir," returned Ambrose, "I wot that Tibble Steelman would never send me to one who would
not truly give me what I need."

"Tibble Steelman is verily one of the few who are both called and chosen," replied Lucas, "and
I think thou art the same so far as green youth may be judged, since thou art one who will
follow the word into the desert, and never ask for the loaves and fishes.  Nevertheless, I
will take none advantage of thy youth and zeal, but thou shalt first behold what thou shalt
have to do for me, and then if it still likes thee, I will see thy kindred.  Hast no father?"

Ambrose explained, and at that moment Master Hansen's boy made his appearance, returning from
an errand; the stall was left in his charge, while the master took Ambrose with him into the
precincts of what had once been the splendid and hospitable mansion of the great king-maker,
Warwick, but was now broken up into endless little tenements with their courts and streets,
though the baronial ornaments and the arrangement still showed what the place had been.

Entering beneath a wide archway, still bearing the sign of the Bear and Ragged Staff, Lucas
led the way into what must have been one of the courts of offices, for it was surrounded with
buildings and sheds of different heights and sizes, and had on one side a deep trough of stone,
fed by a series of water-taps, intended for the use of the stables.  The doors of one of these
buildings was unlocked by Master Hansen, and Ambrose found himself in what had once perhaps
been part of a stable, but had been partitioned off from the rest.  There were two stalls,
one serving the Dutchman for his living room, the other for his workshop. In one corner stood
a white earthenware stove--so new a spectacle to the young forester that he supposed it to
be the printing-press.  A table, shiny with rubbing, a wooden chair, a couple of stools, a
few vessels, mirrors for brightness, some chests and corner cupboards, a bed shutting up like
a box and likewise highly polished, completed the furniture, all arranged with the marvellous
orderliness and neatness of the nation.  A curtain shut off the opening to the other stall,
where stood a machine with a huge screw, turned by leverage.  Boxes of type and piles of paper
surrounded it, and Ambrose stood and looked at it with a sort of awe- struck wonder and respect
as the great fount of wisdom.  Hansen showed him what his work would be, in setting up type,
and by and by correcting after the first proof.  The machine could only print four pages at
a time, and for this operation the whole strength of the establishment was required.  Moreover,
Master Hansen bound, as well as printed his books. Ambrose was by no means daunted.  As long
as he might read as well as print, and while he had Sundays at Saint Paul's to look to, he
asked no more--except indeed that his gentle blood stirred at the notion of acting salesman
in the book-stall, and Master Hansen assured him with a smile that Will Wherry, the other boy,
would do that better than either of them, and that he would be entirely employed here.

The methodical master insisted however on making terms with the boy's relations; and with some
misgivings on Ambrose's part, the two--since business hours were almost over--walked together
to the Temple and to the little house, where Perronel was ironing under her window.

Ambrose need not have doubted.  The Dutch blood on either side was stirred; and the good housewife
commanded the little printer's respect as he looked round on a kitchen as tidy as if it in
his own country. And the bargain was struck that Ambrose Birkenholt should serve Master Hansen
for his meals and two pence a week, while he was to sleep at the little house of Mistress Randall,
who would keep his clothes and linen in order.

And thus it was that both Ambrose and Stephen Birkenholt had found their vocations for the
present, and both were fervent in them.  Master Headley pshawed a little when he heard that
Ambrose had engaged himself to a printer and a foreigner; and when he was told it was to a
friend of Tibble's, only shook his head, saying that Tib's only fault was dabbling in matters
of divinity, as if a plain man could not be saved without them!  However, he respected the
lad for having known his own mind and not hung about in idleness, and he had no opinion of
clerks, whether monks or priests.  Indeed, the low esteem in which the clergy as a class were
held in London was one of the very evil signs of the times. Ambrose was invited to dine and
sup at the Dragon court every Sunday and holiday, and he was glad to accept, since the hospitality
was so free, and he thus was able to see his brother and Tibble; besides that, it prevented
him from burthening Mistress Randall, whom he really liked, though he could not see her husband,
either in his motley or his plain garments, without a shudder of repulsion.

Ambrose found that setting up type had not much more to do with the study of new books than
Stephen's turning the grindstone had with fighting in the lists; and the mistakes he made in
spelling from right to left, and in confounding the letters, made him despair, and prepare
for any amount of just indignation from his master; but he found on the contrary that Master
Hansen had never had a pupil who made so few blunders on the first trial, and augured well
of him from such a beginning.  Paper was too costly, and pressure too difficult, for many proofs
to be struck off, but Hansen could read and correct his type as it stood, and assured Ambrose
that practice would soon give him the same power; and the correction was thus completed, when
Will Wherry, a big, stout fellow, came in to dinner--the stall being left during that time,
as nobody came for books during the dinner-hour, and Hansen, having an understanding with his
next neighbour, by which they took turns to keep guard against thieves.

The master and the two lads dined together on the contents of a cauldron, where pease and pork
had been simmering together on the stove all the morning.  Their strength was then united to
work the press and strike off a sheet, which the master scanned, finding only one error in
it.  It was a portion of Lilly's Grammar, and Ambrose regarded it with mingled pride and delight,
though he longed to go further into those deeper revelations for the sake of which he had come
here.

Master Hansen then left the youths to strike off a couple of hundred sheets, after which they
were to wash the types and re-arrange the letters in the compartments in order, whilst he returned
to the stall. The customers requiring his personal attention were generally late ones. When
all this was accomplished, and the pot put on again in preparation for supper, the lads might
use the short time that remained as they would, and Hansen himself showed Ambrose a shelf of
books concealed by a blue curtain, whence he might read.

Will Wherry showed unconcealed amazement that this should be the taste of his companion.  He
himself hated the whole business, and would never have adopted it, but that he had too many
brothers for all to take to the water on the Thames, and their mother was too poor to apprentice
them, and needed the small weekly pay the Dutchman gave him.  He seemed a good-natured, dull
fellow, whom no doubt Hansen had hired for the sake of the strong arms, developed by generations
of oarsmen upon the river. What he specially disliked was that his master was a foreigner.
The whole court swarmed with foreigners, he said, with the utmost disgust, as if they were
noxious insects.  They made provisions dear, and undersold honest men, and he wondered the
Lord Mayor did not see to it and drive them out.  He did not so much object to the Dutch, but
the Spaniards--no words could express his horror of them.

By and by, Ambrose going out to fetch some water from the conduit, found standing by it a figure
entirely new to him.  It was a young girl of some twelve or fourteen years old, in the round
white cap worn by all of her age and sex; but from beneath it hung down two thick plaits of
the darkest hair he had ever seen, and though the dress was of the ordinary dark serge with
a coloured apron, it was put on with an air that made it look like some strange and beautiful
costume on the slender, lithe, little form.  The vermilion apron was further trimmed with a
narrow border of white, edged again with deep blue, and it chimed in with the bright coral
earrings and necklace.  As Ambrose came forward the creature tried to throw a crimson handkerchief
over her head, and ran into the shelter of another door, but not before Ambrose had seen a
pair of large dark eyes so like those of a terrified fawn that they seemed to carry him back
to the Forest.  Going back amazed, he asked his companion who the girl he had seen could have been.

Will stared.  "I trow you mean the old blackamoor sword-cutler's wench. He is one of those
pestilent strangers.  An 'Ebrew Jew who worships Mahound and is too bad for the Spanish folk
themselves."

This rather startled Ambrose, though he knew enough to see that the accusations could not both
be true, but he forgot it in the delight, when Will pronounced the work done, of drawing back
the curtain and feasting his eyes upon the black backs of the books, and the black- letter
brochures that lay by them.  There were scarcely thirty, yet he gloated on them as on an inexhaustible
store, while Will, whistling wonder at his taste, opined that since some one was there to look
after the stove, and the iron pot on it, he might go out and have a turn at ball with Hob and
Martin.

Ambrose was glad to be left to go over his coming feast.  There was Latin, English, and, alas!
baffling Dutch.  High or Low it was all the same to him.  What excited his curiosity most was
the Enchiridion Militis Christiani of Erasmus--in Latin of course, and that he could easily
read--but almost equally exciting was a Greek and Latin vocabulary; or again, a very thin book
in which he recognised the New Testament in the Vulgate.  He had heard chapters of it read
from the graceful stone pulpit overhanging the refectory at Beaulieu, and, of course, the Gospels
and Epistles at mass, but they had been read with little expression and no attention; and that
Sunday's discourse had filled him with eagerness to look farther; but the mere reading the
titles of the books was pleasure enough for the day, and his master was at home before he had
fixed his mind on anything.  Perhaps this was as well, for Lucas advised him what to begin
with, and how to divide his studies so as to gain a knowledge of the Greek, his great ambition,
and also to read the Scripture.

The master was almost as much delighted as the scholar, and it was not till the curfew was
beginning to sound that Ambrose could tear himself away.  It was still daylight, and the door
of the next dwelling was open.  There, sitting on the ground cross-legged, in an attitude such
as Ambrose had never seen, was a magnificent old man, with a huge long white beard, wearing,
indeed, the usual dress of a Londoner of the lower class, but the gown flowed round him in
a grand and patriarchal manner, corresponding with his noble, somewhat aquiline features; and
behind him Ambrose thought he caught a glimpse of the shy fawn he had seen in the morning.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

AY DI ME GRENADA.

  "In sooth it was a thing to weep
  If then as now the level plain
  Beneath was spreading like the deep,
  The broad unruffled main.
  If like a watch-tower of the sun
  Above, the Alpuxarras rose,
  Streaked, when the dying day was done,
  With evening's roseate snows."
  Archbishop Trench.

When Mary Tudor, released by death from her first dreary marriage, contracted for her brother's
pleasure, had appeased his wrath at her second marriage made to please herself, Henry the Eighth
was only too glad to mark his assent by all manner of festivities; and English chroniclers,
instead of recording battles and politics, had only to write of pageantries and tournaments
during the merry May of the year 1515--a May, be it remembered, which, thanks to the old style,
was at least ten days nearer to Midsummer than our present month.

How the two queens and all their court had gone a-maying on Shooter's Hill, ladies and horses
poetically disguised and labelled with sweet summer titles, was only a nine days' wonder when
the Birkenholts had come to London, but the approaching tournament at Westminster on the Whitsun
holiday was the great excitement to the whole population, for, with all its faults, the Court
of bluff King Hal was thoroughly genial, and every one, gentle and simple, might participate
in his pleasures.

Seats were reserved at the lists for the city dignitaries and their families, and though old
Mistress Headley professed that she ought to have done with such vanities, she could not forbear
from going to see that her son was not too much encumbered with the care of little Dennet,
and that the child herself ran into no mischief.  Master Headley himself grumbled and sighed
but he put himself into his scarlet gown, holding that his presence was a befitting attention
to the king, glad to gratify his little daughter, and not without a desire to see how his workmanship--good
English ware--held out against "mail and plate of Milan steel," the fine armour brought home
from France by the new Duke of Suffolk.  Giles donned his best in the expectation of sitting
in the places of honour as one of the family, and was greatly disgusted when Kit Smallbones
observed, "What's all that bravery for?  The tilting- match quotha?  Ha! ha! my young springald,
if thou see it at all, thou must be content to gaze as thou canst from the armourers' tent,
if Tibble there chooses to be cumbered with a useless lubber like thee."

"I always sat with my mother when there were matches at Clarendon," muttered Giles, who had
learnt at least that it was of no use to complain of Smallbones' plain speaking.

"If folks cocker malapert lads at Sarum we know better here," was the answer.

"I shall ask the master, my kinsman," returned the youth.

But he got little by his move.  Master Headley told him, not unkindly, for he had some pity
for the spoilt lad, that not the Lord Mayor himself would take his own son with him while yet
an apprentice.  Tibble Steelman would indeed go to one of the attendants' tents at the further
end of the lists, where repairs to armour and weapons might be needed, and would take an assistant
or two, but who they might be must depend on his own choice, and if Giles had any desire to
go, he had better don his working dress.

In fact, Tibble meant to take Edmund Burgess and one workman for use, and one of the new apprentices
for pleasure, letting them change in the middle of the day.  The swagger of Giles actually
forfeited for him the first turn, which--though he was no favourite with the men--would have
been granted to his elder years and his relationship to the master; but on his overbearing
demand to enter the boat which was to carry down a little anvil and charcoal furnace, with
a few tools, rivets, nails, and horse-shoes, Tibble coolly returned that he needed no such
gay birds; but if Giles chose to be ready in his leathern coat when Stephen Birkenholt came
home at mid-day, mayhap he might change with him.

Stephen went joyously in the plainest of attire, though Tibble in fur cap, grimy jerkin, and
leathern apron was no elegant steersman; and Edmund, who was at the age of youthful foppery,
shrugged his shoulders a little, and disguised the garments of the smithy with his best flat
cap and newest mantle.

They kept in the wake of the handsome barge which Master Headley shared with his friend and
brother alderman, Master Hope the draper, whose young wife, in a beautiful black velvet hood
and shining blue satin kirtle, was evidently petting Dennet to her heart's content, though
the little damsel never lost an opportunity of nodding to her friends in the plainer barge
in the rear.

The Tudor tilting-matches cost no lives, and seldom broke bones.  They were chiefly opportunities
for the display of brilliant enamelled and gilt armour, at the very acme of cumbrous magnificence;
and of equally gorgeous embroidery spread out over the vast expanse provided by elephantine
Flemish horses.  Even if the weapons had not been purposely blunted, and if the champions had
really desired to slay one another, they would have found the task very difficult, as in effect
they did in the actual game of war.  But the spectacle was a splendid one, and all the apparatus
was ready in the armourers' tent, marked by Saint George and the Dragon.  Tibble ensconced
himself in the innermost corner with a "tractate," borrowed from his friend Lucas, and sent
the apprentices to gaze their fill at the rapidly filling circles of seats.  They saw King
Harry, resplendent in gilded armour--"from their own anvil, true English steel," said Edmund,
proudly--hand to her seat his sister the bride, one of the most beautiful women then in existence,
with a lovely and delicate bloom on her fair face and exquisite Plantagenet features.  No more
royally handsome creatures could the world have offered than that brother and sister, and the
English world appreciated them and made the lists ring with applause at the fair lady who had
disdained foreign princes to wed her true love, an honest Englishman.

He--the cloth of frieze--in blue Milanese armour, made to look as classical as possible, and
with clasps and medals engraven from antique gems--handed in Queen Katharine, whose dark but
glowing Spanish complexion made a striking contrast to the dazzling fairness of her young sister-in-law.
Near them sat a stout burly figure in episcopal purple, and at his feet there was a form which
nearly took away all Stephen's pleasure for the time.  For it was in motley, and he could hear
the bells jingle, while the hot blood rose in his cheeks in the dread lest Burgess should detect
the connection, or recognise in the jester the grave personage who had come to negotiate with
Mr Headley for his indentures, or worse still, that the fool should see and claim him.

However, Quipsome Hal seemed to be exchanging drolleries with the young dowager of France,
who, sooth to say, giggled in a very unqueenly manner at jokes which made the grave Spanish-born
queen draw up her stately head, and converse with a lady on her other hand--an equally stately
lady, somewhat older, with the straight Plantagenet features, and by her side a handsome boy,
who, though only eight or nine years old, was tonsured, and had a little scholar's gown.  "That,"
said Edmund, "is my Lady Countess of Salisbury, of whom Giles Headley prates so much."

A tournament, which was merely a game between gorgeously equipped princes and nobles, afforded
little scope for adventure worthy of record, though it gave great diversion to the spectators.
Stephen gazed like one fascinated at the gay panoply of horse and man, with the huge plumes
on the heads of both, as they rushed against one another, and he shared with Edmund the triumph
when the lance from their armoury held good, the vexation if it were shivered.  All would have
been perfect but for the sight of his uncle, playing off his drolleries in a manner that gave
him a sense of personal degradation.

To escape from the sight almost consoled him when, in the pause after the first courses had
been run, Tibble told him and Burgess to return, and send Headley and another workman with
a fresh bundle of lances for the afternoon's tilting.  Stephen further hoped to find his brother
at the Dragon court, as it was one of those holidays that set every one free, and separation
began to make the brothers value their meetings.

But Ambrose was not at the Dragon court, and when Stephen went in quest of him to the Temple,
Perronel had not seen him since the early morning, but she said he seemed so much bitten with
the little old man's scholarship that she had small doubt that he would be found poring over
a book in Warwick Inner Ward.

Thither therefore did Stephen repair.  The place was nearly deserted, for the inhabitants were
mostly either artisans or that far too numerous race who lived on the doles of convents, on
the alms of churchgoers, and the largesses scattered among the people on public occasions,
and these were for the most part pursuing their vocation both of gazing and looking out for
gain among the spectators outside the lists.  The door that Stephen had been shown as that
of Ambrose's master was, however, partly open, and close beside it sat in the sun a figure
that amazed him.  On a small mat or rug, with a black and yellow handkerchief over her head,
and little scarlet legs crossed under a blue dress, all lighted up by the gay May sun, there
slept the little dark, glowing maiden, with her head bent as it leant against the wall, her
rosy lips half-open, her long black plaits on her shoulders.

Stepping up to the half-open door, whence he heard a voice reading, his astonishment was increased.
At the table were his brother and his master, Ambrose with a black book in hand, Lucas Hansen
with some papers, and on the ground was seated a venerable, white-bearded old man, something
between Stephen's notions of an apostle and of a magician, though the latter idea predominated
at sight of a long parchment scroll covered with characters such as belonged to no alphabet
that he had ever dreamt of.  What were they doing to his brother?  He was absolutely in an
enchanter's den.  Was it a pixie at the door, guarding it? "Ambrose!" he cried aloud.

Everybody started.  Ambrose sprang to his feet, exclaiming, "Stephen!" The pixie gave a little
scream and jumped up, flying to the old man, who quietly rolled up his scroll.

Lucas rose up as Ambrose spoke.

"Thy brother?" said he.

"Yea--come in search of me," said Ambrose.

"Thou hadst best go forth with him," said Lucas.

"It is not well that youth should study over long," said the old man. "Thou hast aided us well,
but do thou now unbend the bow.  Peace be with thee, my son."

Ambrose complied, but scarcely willingly, and the instant they had made a few steps from the
door, Stephen exclaimed in dismay, "Who--what was it?  Have they bewitched thee, Ambrose?"

Ambrose laughed merrily.  "Not so.  It is holy lore that those good men are reading."

"Nay now, Ambrose.  Stand still--if thou canst, poor fellow," he muttered, and then made the
sign of the cross three times over his brother, who stood smiling, and said, "Art satisfied
Stevie?  Or wilt have me rehearse my Credo?"  Which he did, Stephen listening critically, and
drawing a long breath as he recognised each word, pronounced without a shudder at the critical
points.  "Thou art safe so far," said Stephen.  "But sure he is a wizard.  I even beheld his
familiar spirit--in a fair shape doubtless--like a pixie!  Be not deceived, brother.  Sorcery
reads backwards--and I saw him so read from that scroll of his.  Laughest thou!  Nay! what
shall I do to free thee? Enter here!"

Stephen dragged his brother, still laughing, into the porch of the nearest church, and deluged
him with holy water with such good will, that Ambrose, putting up his hands to shield his eyes,
exclaimed, "Come now, have done with this folly, Stephen--though it makes me laugh to think
of thy scared looks, and poor little Aldonza being taken for a familiar spirit."  And Ambrose
laughed as he had not laughed for weeks.

"But what is it, then?"

"The old man is of thy calling, or something like it, Stephen, being that he maketh and tempereth
sword-blades after the prime Damascene or Toledo fashion, and the familiar spirit is his little
daughter."

Stephen did not however look mollified.  "Sword-blades!  None have a right to make them save
our craft.  This is one of the rascaille Spaniards who have poured into the city under favour
of the queen to spoil and ruin the lawful trade.  Though could you but have seen, Ambrose,
how our tough English ashwood in King Harry's band--from our own armoury too--made all go down
before it, you would never uphold strangers and their false wares that can only get the better
by sorcery."

"How thou dost harp upon sorcery!" exclaimed Ambrose.  "I must tell thee the good old man's
story as 'twas told to me, and then wilt thou own that he is as good a Christian as ourselves--ay,
or better--and hath little cause to love the Spaniards."

"Come on, then," said Stephen.  "Methought if we, went towards Westminster we might yet get
where we could see the lists.  Such a rare show, Ambrose, to see the King in English armour,
ay, and Master Headley's, every inch of it, glittering in the sun, so that one could scarce
brook the dazzling, on his horse like a rock shattering all that came against him!  I warrant
you the lances cracked and shivered like faggots under old Purkis's bill-hook.  And that you
should liefer pore over crabbed monkish stuff with yonder old men!  My life on it, there must
be some spell!"

"No more than of old, when I was ever for book and thou for bow," said Ambrose; "but I'll make
thee rueful for old Michael yet.  Hast heard tell of the Moors in Spain?"

"Moors--blackamoors who worship Mahound and Termagant.  I saw a blackamoor last week behind
his master, a merchant of Genoa, in Paul's Walk.  He looked like the devils in the Miracle
Play at Christ Church, with blubber lips and wool for hair.  I marvelled that he did not writhe
and flee when he came within the Minster, but Ned Burgess said he was a christened man."

"Moors be not all black, neither be they all worshippers of Mahound," replied Ambrose.

However, as Ambrose's information, though a few degrees more correct and intelligent than his
brother's, was not complete, it will be better not to give the history of Lucas's strange visitors
in his words.

They belonged to the race of Saracen Arabs who had brought the arts of life to such perfection
in Southern Spain, but who had received the general appellation of Moors from those Africans
who were continually reinforcing them, and, bringing a certain Puritan strictness of Mohammedanism
with them, had done much towards destroying the highest cultivation among them before the Spanish
kingdoms became united, and finally triumphed over them.  During the long interval of two centuries,
while Castille was by Italian occupied by internal wars, and Aragon conquests, there had been
little aggression on the Moorish borderland, and a good deal of friendly intercourse both in
the way of traffic and of courtesy, nor had the bitter persecution and distrust of new converts
then set in, which followed the entire conquest of Granada.  Thus, when Ronda was one of the
first Moorish cities to surrender, a great merchant of the unrivalled sword-blades whose secret
had been brought from Damascus, had, with all his family, been accepted gladly when he declared
himself ready to submit and receive baptism.  Miguel Abenali was one of the sons, and though
his conversion had at first been mere compliance with his father's will and the family interests,
he had become sufficiently convinced of Christian truth not to take part with his own people
in the final struggle.  Still, however, the inbred abhorrence of idolatry had influenced his
manner of worship, and when, after half a lifetime, Granada had fallen, and the Inquisition
had begun to take cognisance of new Christians from among the Moors as well as the Jews, there
were not lacking spies to report the absence of all sacred images or symbols from the house
of the wealthy merchant, and that neither he nor any of his family had been seen kneeling before
the shrine of Nuestra Senora.  The sons of Abenali did indeed feel strongly the power of the
national reaction, and revolted from the religion which they saw cruelly enforced on their
conquered countrymen.  The Moor had been viewed as a gallant enemy, the Morisco was only a
being to be distrusted and persecuted; and the efforts of the good Bishop of Granada, who had
caused the Psalms, Gospels, and large portions of the Breviary to be translated into Arabic,
were frustrated by the zeal of those who imagined that heresy lurked in the vernacular, and
perhaps that objections to popular practices might be strengthened.

By order of Cardinal Ximenes, these Arabic versions were taken away and burnt; but Miguel Abenali
had secured his own copy, and it was what he there learnt that withheld him from flying to
his countrymen and resuming their faith when he found that the Christianity he had professed
for forty years was no longer a protection to him.  Having known the true Christ in the Gospel,
he could not turn back to Mohammed, even though Christians persecuted in the Name they so little
understood.

The crisis came in 1507, when Ximenes, apparently impelled by the dread that simulated conformity
should corrupt the Church, quickened the persecution of the doubtful "Nuevos Cristianos," and
the Abenali family, who had made themselves loved and respected, received warning that they
had been denounced, and that their only hope lay in flight.

The two sons, high-spirited young men, on whom religion had far less hold than national feeling,
fled to the Alpuxarra Mountains, and renouncing the faith of the persecutors, joined their
countrymen in their gallant and desperate warfare.  Their mother, who had long been dead, had
never been more than an outward Christian; but the second wife of Abenali shared his belief
and devotion with the intelligence and force of character sometimes found among the Moorish
ladies of Spain. She and her little ones fled with him in disguise to Cadiz, with the precious
Arabic Scriptures rolled round their waists, and took shelter with an English merchant, who
had had dealings in sword-blades with Senor Miguel, and had been entertained by him in his
beautiful Saracenic house at Ronda with Eastern hospitality.  This he requited by giving them
the opportunity of sailing for England in a vessel laden with Xeres sack; but the misery of
the voyage across the Bay of Biscay in a ship lit for nothing but wine, was excessive, and
creatures reared in the lovely climate and refined luxury of the land of the palm and orange,
exhausted too already by the toils of the mountain journey, were incapable of enduring it,
and Abenali's brave wife and one of her children were left beneath the waves of the Atlantic.
With the one little girl left to him, he arrived in London, and the recommendation of his Cadiz
friend obtained for him work from a dealer in foreign weapons, who was not unwilling to procure
them nearer home.  Happily for him, Moorish masters, however rich, were always required to
be proficients in their own trade; and thus Miguel, or Michael as he was known in England,
was able to maintain himself and his child by the fabrication of blades that no one could distinguish
from those of Damascus.  Their perfection was a work of infinite skill, labour, and industry,
but they were so costly, that their price, and an occasional job of inlaying gold in other
metal, sufficed to maintain the old man and his little daughter. The armourers themselves were
sometimes forced to have recourse to him, though unwillingly, for he was looked on with distrust
and dislike as an interloper of foreign birth, belonging to no guild.  A Biscayan or Castillian
of the oldest Christian blood incurred exactly the same obloquy from the mass of London craftsmen
and apprentices, and Lucas himself had small measure of favour, though Dutchmen were less alien
to the English mind than Spaniards, and his trade did not lead to so much rivalry and competition.

As much of this as Ambrose knew or understood he told to Stephen, who listened in a good deal
of bewilderment, understanding very little, but with a strong instinct that his brother's love
of learning was leading him into dangerous company.  And what were they doing on this fine
May holiday, when every one ought to be out enjoying themselves?

"Well, if thou wilt know," said Ambrose, pushed hard, "there is one Master William Tindal,
who hath been doing part of the blessed Evangel into English, and for better certainty of its
correctness, Master Michael was comparing it with his Arabic version, while I overlooked the
Latin."

"O Ambrose, thou wilt surely run into trouble.  Know you not how nurse Joan used to tell us
of the burning of the Lollard books?"

"Nay, nay, Stevie, this is no heresy.  'Tis such work as the great scholar, Master Erasmus,
is busied on--ay, and he is loved and honoured by both the Archbishops and the King's grace.
Ask Tibble Steelman what he thinks thereof."

"Tibble Steelman would think nought of a beggarly stranger calling himself a sword-cutler,
and practising the craft without prenticeship or license," said Stephen, swelling with indignation.
"Come on, Ambrose, and sweep the cobwebs from thy brain.  If we cannot get into our own tent
again, we can mingle with the outskirts, and learn how the day is going, and how our lances
and breastplates have stood where the knaves at the Eagle have gone like reeds and egg-shells--just
as I threw George Bates, the prentice at the Eagle yesterday, in a wrestling match at the butts
with the trick old Diggory taught me."

CHAPTER TWELVE.

A KING IN A QUAGMIRE.
  Who shall me let?"
  The King's Balade,
  attributed to Henry the Eighth.

Life was a rough, hearty thing in the early sixteenth century, strangely divided between thought
and folly, hardship and splendour, misery and merriment, toil and sport.

The youths in the armourer's household had experienced little of this as yet in their country
life, but in London they could not but soon begin to taste both sides of the matter.  Master
Headley himself was a good deal taken up with city affairs, and left the details of his business
to Tibble Steelman and Kit Smallbones, though he might always appear on the scene, and he had
a wonderful knowledge of what was going on.

The breaking-in and training of the two new country lads was entirely left to them and to Edmund
Burgess.  Giles soon found that complaints were of no avail, and only made matters harder for
him, and that Tibble Steelman and Kit Smallbones had no notion of favouring their master's cousin.

Poor fellow, he was very miserable in those first weeks.  The actual toil, to which he was
an absolute novice, though nominally three years an apprentice, made his hands raw, and his
joints full of aches, while his groans met with nothing but laughter; and he recognised with
great displeasure, that more was laid on him than on Stephen Birkenholt.  This was partly in
consideration of Stephen's youth, partly of his ready zeal and cheerfulness.  His hands might
be sore too, but he was rather proud of it than otherwise, and his hero worship of Kit Smallbones
made him run on errands, tug at the bellows staff, or fetch whatever was called for with a
bright alacrity that won the foremen's hearts, and it was noted that he who was really a gentleman,
had none of the airs that Giles Headley showed.

Giles began by some amount of bullying, by way of slaking his wrath at the preference shown
for one whom he continued to style a beggarly brat picked up on the heath; but Stephen was
good-humoured, and accustomed to give and take, and they both found their level, as well in
the Dragon court as among the world outside, where the London prentices were a strong and redoubtable
body, with rude, not to say cruel, rites of initiation among themselves, plenty of rivalries
and enmities between house and house, guild and guild, but a united, not to say ferocious,
esprit de corps against every one else.  Fisticuffs and wrestlings were the amenities that
passed between them, though always with a love of fair play so long as no cowardice, or what
was looked on as such, was shown, for there was no mercy for the weak or weakly.  Such had
better betake themselves at once to the cloister, or life was made intolerable by constant
jeers, blows, baiting and huntings, often, it must be owned, absolutely brutal.

Stephen and Giles had however passed through this ordeal.  The letter to John Birkenholt had
been despatched by a trusty clerk riding with the Judges of Assize, whom Mistress Perronel
knew might be safely trusted, and who actually brought back a letter which might have emanated
from the most affectionate of brothers, giving his authority for the binding Stephen apprentice
to the worshipful Master Giles Headley, and sending the remainder of the boy's portion.

Stephen was thereupon regularly bound apprentice to Master Headley.  It was a solemn affair,
which took place in the Armourer's Hall in Coleman Street, before sundry witnesses.  Harry
Randall, in his soberest garb and demeanour, acted as guardian to his nephew, and presented
him, clad in the regulation prentice garb--"flat round cap, close-cut hair, narrow falling
bands, coarse side coat, close hose, cloth stockings," coat with the badge of the Armourers'
Company, and Master Headley's own dragon's tail on the sleeve, to which was added a blue cloak
marked in like manner.  The instructions to apprentices were rehearsed, beginning, "Ye shall
constantly and devoutly on your knees every day serve God, morning and evening,"--pledging
him to "avoid evil company, to make speedy return when sent on his master's business, to be
fair, gentle and lowly in speech and carriage with all men," and the like.

Mutual promises were interchanged between him and his master, Stephen on his knees; the indentures
were signed, for Quipsome Hal could with much ado produce an autograph signature, though his
penmanship went no further, and the occasion was celebrated by a great dinner of the whole
craft at the Armourers' Hall, to which the principal craftsmen who had been apprentices, such
as Tibble Steelman and Kit Smallbones, were invited, sitting at a lower table, while the masters
had the higher one on the days, and a third was reserved for the apprentices after they should
have waited on their masters--in fact it was an imitation of the orders of chivalry, knights,
squires, and pages, and the gradation of rank was as strictly observed as by the nobility.
Giles, considering the feast to be entirely in his honour, though the transfer of his indentures
had been made at Salisbury, endeavoured to come out in some of his bravery, but was admonished
that such presumption might be punished, the first time, at his master's discretion, the second
time, by a whipping at the Hall of his Company, and the third time by six months being added
to the term of his apprenticeship.

Master Randall was entertained in the place of honour, where he comported himself with great
gravity, though he could not resist alarming Stephen with an occasional wink or gesture as
the boy approached in the course of the duties of waiting at the upper board--a splendid sight
with cups and flagons of gold and silver, with venison and capons and all that a City banquet
could command before the invention of the turtle.

There was drinking of toasts, and among the foremost was that of Wolsey, who had freshly received
his nomination of cardinal, and whose hat was on its way from Rome--and here the jester could
not help betraying his knowledge of the domestic policy of the household, and telling the company
how it had become known that the scarlet hat was actually on the way, but in a "varlet's budget--a
mere Italian common knave, no better than myself," quoth Quipsome Hal, whereat his nephew trembled
standing behind his chair, forgetting that the decorous solid man in the sad- coloured gown
and well-crimped ruff, neatest of Perronel's performances, was no such base comparison for
any varlet.  Hal went on to describe, however, how my Lord of York had instantly sent to stay
the messenger on his landing at Dover, and equip him with all manner of costly silks by way
of apparel, and with attendants, such as might do justice to his freight, "that so," he said,
"men may not rate it but as a scarlet cock's comb, since all men be but fools, and the sole
question is, who among them hath wit enough to live by his folly."  Therewith he gave a wink
that so disconcerted Stephen as nearly to cause an upset of the bowl of perfumed water that
he was bringing for the washing of hands.

Master Headley, however, suspected nothing, and invited the grave Master Randall to attend
the domestic festival on the presentation of poor Spring's effigy at the shrine of Saint Julian.
This was to take place early in the morning of the 14th of September, Holy Cross Day, the last
holiday in the year that had any of the glory of summer about it, and on which the apprentices
claimed a prescriptive right to go out nutting in Saint John's Wood, and to carry home their
spoil to the lasses of their acquaintance.

Tibble Steelman had completed the figure in bronze, with a silver collar and chain, not quite
without protest that the sum had better have been bestowed in alms.  But from his master's
point of view this would have been giving to a pack of lying beggars and thieves what was due
to the holy saint; no one save Tibble, who could do and say what he chose, could have ventured
on a word of remonstrance on such a subject; and as the full tide of iconoclasm, consequent
on the discovery of the original wording of the second commandment, had not yet set in, Tibble
had no more conscientious scruple against making the figure, than in moulding a little straight-tailed
lion for Lord Harry Percy's helmet.

So the party in early morning heard their mass, and then, repairing to Saint Julian's pillar,
while the rising sun came peeping through the low eastern window of the vaulted Church of Saint
Faith, Master Headley on his knees gave thanks for his preservation, and then put forward his
little daughter, holding on her joined hands the figure of poor Spring, couchant, and beautifully
modelled in bronze with all Tibble's best skill.

Hal Randall and Ambrose had both come up from the little home where Perronel presided, for
the hour was too early for the jester's absence to be remarked in the luxurious household of
the Cardinal elect, and he even came to break his fast afterwards at the Dragon court, and
held such interesting discourse with old Dame Headley on the farthingales and coifs of Queen
Katharine and her ladies, that she pronounced him a man wondrous wise and understanding, and
declared Stephen happy in the possession of such a kinsman.

"And whither away now, youngsters?" he said, as he rose from table.

"To Saint John's Wood!  The good greenwood, uncle," said Ambrose.

"Thou too, Ambrose?" said Stephen joyfully.  "For once away from thine ink and thy books!"

"Ay," said Ambrose, "mine heart warms to the woodlands once more. Uncle, would that thou couldst
come."

"Would that I could, boy!  We three would show these lads of Cockayne what three foresters
know of wood-craft!  But it may not be.  Were I once there, the old blood might stir again
and I might bring you into trouble, and ye have not two faces under one hood as I have!  So
fare ye well, I wish you many a bagful of nuts!"

The four months of city life, albeit the City was little bigger than our moderate sized country
towns, and far from being an unbroken mass of houses, had yet made the two young foresters
delighted to enjoy a day of thorough country in one another's society.  Little Dennet longed
to go with them, but the prentice world was far too rude for little maidens to be trusted in
it, and her father held out hopes of going one of these days to High Park as he called it,
while Edmund and Stephen promised her all their nuts, and as many blackberries as could be
held in their flat caps.

"Giles has promised me none," said Dennet, with a pouting lip, "nor Ambrose."

"Why sure, little mistress, thou'lt have enough to crack thy teeth on!" said Edmund Burgess.

"They ought to bring theirs to me," returned the little heiress of the Dragon court with an
air of offended dignity that might have suited the heiress of the kingdom.

Giles, who looked on Dennet as a kind of needful appendage to the Dragon, a piece of property
of his own, about whom he need take no trouble, merely laughed and said, "Want must be thy
master then."  But Ambrose treated her petulance in another fashion.  "Look here, pretty mistress,"
said he, "there dwells by me a poor little maid nigh about thine age, who never goeth further
out than to Saint Paul's minster, nor plucketh flower, nor hath sweet cake, nor manchet bread,
nor sugar- stick, nay, and scarce ever saw English hazel-nut nor blackberry.  'Tis for her
that I want to gather them."

"Is she thy master's daughter?" demanded Dennet, who could admit the claims of another princess.

"Nay, my master hath no children, but she dwelleth near him."

"I will send her some, and likewise of mine own comfits and cakes," said Mistress Dennet. 
"Only thou must bring all to me first."

Ambrose laughed and said, "It's a bargain then, little mistress?"

"I keep my word," returned Dennet marching away, while Ambrose obeyed a summons from good-natured
Mistress Headley to have his wallet filled with bread and cheese like those of her own prentices.

Off went the lads under the guidance of Edmund Burgess, meeting parties of their own kind at
every turn, soon leaving behind them the City bounds, as they passed under New Gate, and by
and by skirting the fields of the great Carthusian monastery, or Charter House, with the burial-
ground given by Sir Walter Manny at the time of the Black Death.  Beyond came marshy ground
through which they had to pick their way carefully, over stepping-stones--this being no other
than what is now the Regent's Park, not yet in any degree drained by the New River, but all
quaking ground, overgrown with rough grass and marsh-plants, through which Stephen and Ambrose
bounded by the help of stout poles with feet and eyes well used to bogs, and knowing where
to look for a safe footing, while many a flat-capped London lad floundered about and sank over
his yellow ankles or left his shoes behind him, while lapwings shrieked pee- wheet, and almost
flapped him with their broad wings, and moorhens dived in the dark pools, and wild ducks rose
in long families.

Stephen was able to turn the laugh against his chief adversary and rival, George Bates of the
Eagle, who proposed seeking for the lapwing's nest in hopes of a dainty dish of plovers' eggs;
being too great a cockney to remember that in September the contents of the eggs were probably
flying over the heather, as well able to shift for themselves as their parents.

Above all things the London prentices were pugnacious, but as every one joined in the laugh
against George, and he was, besides, stuck fast on a quaking tussock of grass, afraid to proceed
or advance, he could not have his revenge.  And when the slough was passed, and the slight
rise leading to the copse of Saint John's Wood was attained, behold, it was found to be in
possession of the lower sort of lads, the black guard as they were called.  They were of course
quite as ready to fight with the prentices as the prentices were with them, and a battle royal
took place, all along the front of the hazel bushes--in which Stephen of the Dragon and George
of the Eagle fought side by side.  Sticks and fists were the weapons, and there were no very
severe casualties before the prentices, being the larger number as well as the stouter and
better fed, had routed their adversaries, and driven them off towards Harrow.

There was crackling of boughs and filling of bags, and cracking of nuts, and wild cries in
pursuit of startled hare or rabbit, and though Ambrose and Stephen indignantly repelled the
idea of Saint John's Wood being named in the same day with their native forest, it is doubtful
whether they had ever enjoyed themselves more; until just as they were about to turn homeward,
whether moved by his hostility to Stephen, or by envy at the capful of juicy blackberries,
carefully covered with green leaves, George Bates, rushing up from behind, shouted out, "Here's
a skulker! Here's one of the black guard!  Off to thy fellows, varlet!" at the same time dealing
a dexterous blow under the cap, which sent the blackberries up into Ambrose's face.  "Ha! ha!"
shouted the ill-conditioned fellow. "So much for a knave that serves rascally strangers!  Here!
hand over that bag of nuts!"

Ambrose was no fighter, but in defence of the bag that was to purchase a treat for little Aldonza,
he clenched his fists, and bade George Bates come and take them if he would.  The quiet scholarly
boy was, however, no match for the young armourer, and made but poor reply to the buffets of
his adversary, who had hold of the bag, and was nearly choking him with the string round his neck.

However, Stephen had already missed his brother, and turning round, shouted out that the villain
Bates was mauling him, and rushed back, falling on Ambrose's assailant with a sudden well-directed
pommelling that made him hastily turn about, with cries of "Two against one!"

"Not at all," said Stephen.  "Stand by, Ambrose; I'll give the coward his deserts."

In fact, though the boys were nearly of a size, George somewhat the biggest, Stephen's country
activity, and perhaps the higher spirit of his gentle blood, generally gave him the advantage,
and on this occasion he soon reduced Bates to roar for mercy.

"Thou must purchase it!" said Stephen.  "Thy bag of nuts, in return for the berries thou hast
wasted!"

Peaceable Ambrose would have remonstrated, but Stephen was implacable. He cut the string, and
captured the bag, then with a parting kick bade Bates go after his comrades, for his Eagle
was nought but a thieving kite.

Bates made off pretty quickly, but the two brothers tarried a little to see how much damage
the blackberries had suffered, and to repair the losses as they descended into the bog by gathering
some choice dewberries.

"I marvel these fine fellows 'scaped our company," said Stephen presently.

"Are we in the right track, thinkst thou?  Here is a pool I marked not before," said Ambrose
anxiously.

"Nay, we can't be far astray while we see Saint Paul's spire and the Tower full before us,"
said Stephen.  "Plainer marks than we had at home."

"That may be.  Only where is the safe footing?" said Ambrose.  "I wish we had not lost sight
of the others!"

"Pish! what good are a pack of City lubbers!" returned Stephen.  "Don't we know a quagmire
when we see one, better than they do?"

"Hark, they are shouting for us."

"Not they!  That's a falconer's call.  There's another whistle!  See, there's the hawk.  She's
going down the wind, as I'm alive," and Stephen began to bound wildly along, making all the
sounds and calls by which falcons were recalled, and holding up as a lure a lapwing which he
had knocked down.  Ambrose, by no means so confident in bog-trotting as his brother, stood
still to await him, hearing the calls and shouts of the falconer coming nearer, and presently
seeing a figure, flying by the help of a pole over the pools and dykes that here made some
attempt at draining the waste.  Suddenly, in mid career over one of these broad ditches, there
was a collapse, and a lusty shout for help as the form disappeared.  Ambrose instantly perceived
what had happened, the leaping pole had broken to the downfall of its owner.  Forgetting all
his doubts as to bogholes and morasses, he grasped his own pole, and sprang from tussock to
tussock, till he had reached the bank of the ditch or water- course in which the unfortunate
sportsman was floundering.  He was a large, powerful man, but this was of no avail, for the
slough afforded no foothold.  The further side was a steep bank built up of sods, the nearer
sloped down gradually, and though it was not apparently very deep, the efforts of the victim
to struggle out had done nothing but churn up a mass of black muddy water in which he sank
deeper every moment, and it was already nearly to his shoulders when with a cry of joy, half
choked however, by the mud, he cried, "Ha! my good lad!  Are there any more of ye?"

"Not nigh, I fear," said Ambrose, beholding with some dismay the breadth of the shoulders which
were all that appeared above the turbid water.

"Soh!  Lie down, boy, behind that bunch of osier.  Hold out thy pole. Let me see thine hands.
Thou art but a straw, but, our Lady be my speed!  Now hangs England on a pair of wrists!"

There was a great struggle, an absolute effort for life, and but for the osier stump Ambrose
would certainly have been dragged into the water, when the man had worked along the pole, and
grasping his hands, pulled himself upwards.  Happily the sides of the dyke became harder higher
up, and did not instantly yield to the pressure of his knees, and by the time Ambrose's hands
and shoulders felt nearly wrenched from their sockets, the stem of the osier had been attained,
and in another minute, the rescued man, bareheaded, plastered with mud, and streaming with
water, sat by him on the bank, panting, gasping, and trying to gather breath and clear his
throat from the mud he had swallowed.

"Thanks, good lad, well done," he articulated.  "Those fellows! where are they?"  And feeling
in his bosom, he brought out a gold whistle suspended by a chain.  "Blow it," he said, taking
off the chain, "my mouth is too full of slime."

Ambrose blew a loud shrill call, but it seemed to reach no one but Stephen, whom he presently
saw dashing towards them.

"Here is my brother coming, sir," he said, as he gave his endeavours to help the stranger to
free himself from the mud that clung to him, and which was in some places thick enough to be
scraped off with a knife. He kept up a continual interchange of exclamations at his plight,
whistles and shouts for his people, and imprecations on their tardiness, until Stephen was
near enough to show that the hawk had been recovered, and then he joyfully called out, "Ha!
hast thou got her?  Why, flat-caps as ye are, ye put all my fellows to shame!  How now, thou
errant bird, dost know thy master, or take him for a mud wall?  Kite that thou art, to have
led me such a dance!  And what's your name, my brave lads?  Ye must have been bred to wood-craft."

Ambrose explained both their parentage and their present occupation, but was apparently heeded
but little.  "Wot ye how to get out of this quagmire?" was the question.

"I never was here before, sir," said Stephen; "but yonder lies the Tower, and if we keep along
by this dyke, it must lead us out somewhere."

"Well said, boy, I must be moving, or the mud will dry on me, and I shall stand here as though
I were turned to stone by the Gorgon's head! So have with thee!  Go on first, master hawk-tamer.
What will bear thee will bear me!"

There was an imperative tone about him that surprised the brothers, and Ambrose looking at
him from head to foot, felt sure that it was some great man at the least, whom it had been
his hap to rescue.  Indeed, he began to have further suspicions when they came to a pool of
clearer water, beyond which was firmer ground, and the stranger with an exclamation of joy,
borrowed Stephen's cap, and, scooping up the water with it, washed his face and head, disclosing
the golden hair and beard, fair complexion, and handsome square face he had seen more than
once before.

He whispered to Stephen, "'Tis the King!"

"Ha! ha!" laughed Henry, "hast found him out, lads?  Well, it may not be the worse for ye.
Pity thou shouldst not be in the Forest still, my young falconer, but we know our good city
of London too well to break thy indentures.  And thou--"

He was turning to Ambrose when further shouts were heard.  The King hallooed, and bade the
boys do so, and in a few moments more they were surrounded by the rest of the hawking party,
full of dismay at the king's condition, and deprecating his anger for having lost him.

"Yea," said Henry; "an it had not been for this good lad, ye would never have heard more of
the majesty of England!  Swallowed in a quagmire had made a new end for a king, and ye would
have to brook the little Scot."

The gentlemen who had come up were profuse in lamentations.  A horse was brought up for the
king's use, and he prepared to mount, being in haste to get into dry clothes.  He turned round,
however, to the boys, and said, "I'll not forget you, my lads.  Keep that!" he added, as Ambrose,
on his knee, would have given him back the whistle, "'tis a token that maybe will serve thee,
for I shall know it again.  And thou, my black- eyed lad--My purse, Howard!"

He handed the purse to Stephen--a velvet bag richly wrought with gold, and containing ten gold
angels, besides smaller money--bidding them divide, like good brothers as he saw they were,
and then galloped off with his train.

Twilight was coming on, but following in the direction of the riders, the boys were soon on
the Islington road.  The New Gate was shut by the time they reached it, and their explanation
that they were belated after a nutting expedition would not have served them, had not Stephen
produced the sum of twopence which softened the surliness of the guard.

It was already dark, and though curfew had not yet sounded, preparations were making for lighting
the watch-fires in the open spaces and throwing chains across the streets, but the little door
in the Dragon court was open, and Ambrose went in with his brother to deliver up his nuts to
Dennet and claim her promise of sending a share to Aldonza.

They found their uncle in his sober array sitting by Master Headley, who was rating Edmund
and Giles for having lost sight of them, the latter excusing himself by grumbling out that
he could not be marking all Stephen's brawls with George Bates.

When the two wanderers appeared, relief took the form of anger, and there were sharp demands
why they had loitered.  Their story was listened to with many exclamations: Dennet jumped for
joy, her grandmother advised that the angels should be consigned to her own safe keeping, and
when Master Headley heard of Henry's scruples about the indentures, he declared that it was
a rare wise king who knew that an honest craft was better than court favour.

"Yet mayhap he might do something for thee, friend Ambrose," added the armourer.  "Commend
thee to some post in his chapel royal, or put thee into some college, since such is thy turn.
How sayst thou, Master Randall, shall he send in this same token, and make his petition?"

"If a fool--if a plain man may be heard where the wise hath spoken," said Randall, "he had
best abstain.  Kings love not to be minded of mishaps, and our Hal's humour is not to be reckoned
on!  Lay up the toy in case of need, but an thou claim overmuch he may mind thee in a fashion
not to thy taste."

"Sure our King is of a more generous mould!" exclaimed Mrs Headley.

"He is like other men, good mistress, just as you know how to have him, and he is scarce like
to be willing to be minded of the taste of mire, or of floundering like a hog in a salt marsh.
Ha! ha!" and Quipsome Hal went off into such a laugh as might have betrayed his identity to
any one more accustomed to the grimaces of his professional character, but which only infected
the others with the same contagious merriment. "Come thou home now," he said to Ambrose; "my
good woman hath been in a mortal fright about thee, and would have me come out to seek after
thee. Such are the women folk, Master Headley.  Let them have but a lad to look after, and
they'll bleat after him like an old ewe that has lost her lamb."

Ambrose only stayed for Dennet to divide the spoil, and though the blackberries had all been
lost or crushed, the little maiden kept her promise generously, and filled the bag not only
with nuts but with three red-cheeked apples, and a handful of comfits, for the poor little
maid who never tasted fruit or sweets.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

A LONDON HOLIDAY.

  "Up then spoke the apprentices tall
  Living in London, one and all."
  Old Ballad.

Another of the many holidays of the Londoners was enjoyed on the occasion of the installation
of Thomas Wolsey as Cardinal of Saint Cecilia, and Papal Legate.

A whole assembly of prelates and "lusty gallant gentlemen" rode out to Blackheath to meet the
Roman envoy, who, robed in full splendour, with Saint Peter's keys embroidered on back and
breast and on the housings of his mule, appeared at the head of a gallant train in the papal
liveries, two of whom carried the gilded pillars, the insignia of office, and two more, a scarlet
and gold-covered box or casket containing the Cardinal's hat.  Probably no such reception of
the dignity was ever prepared elsewhere, and all was calculated to give magnificent ideas of
the office of Cardinal and of the power of the Pope to those who had not been let into the
secret that the messenger had been met at Dover; and thus magnificently fitted out to satisfy
the requirements of the butcher's son of Ipswich, and of one of the most ostentatious of courts.

Old Gaffer Martin Fulford had muttered in his bed that such pomp had not been the way in the
time of the true old royal blood, and that display had come in with the upstart slips of the
Red Rose--as he still chose to style the Tudors; and he maundered away about the beauty and
affability of Edward the Fourth till nobody could understand him, and Perronel only threw in
her "ay, grandad," or "yea, gaffer," when she thought it was expected of her.

Ambrose had an unfailing appetite for the sermons of Dean Colet, who was to preach on this
occasion in Westminster Abbey, and his uncle had given him counsel how to obtain standing ground
there, entering before the procession.  He was alone, his friends Tibble and Lucas both had
that part of the Lollard temper which loathed the pride and wealth of the great political clergy,
and in spite of their admiration for the Dean they could not quite forgive his taking part
in the pomp of such a raree-show.

But Ambrose's devotion to the Dean, to say nothing of youthful curiosity, outweighed all those
scruples, and as he listened, he was carried along by the curious sermon in which the preacher
likened the orders of the hierarchy below to that of the nine orders of the Angels, making
the rank of Cardinal correspond to that of the Seraphim, aglow with love.  Of that holy flame,
the scarlet robes were the type to the spiritualised mind of Colet, while others saw in them
only the relic of the imperial purple of old Rome; and some beheld them as the token that Wolsey
was one step nearer the supreme height that he coveted so earnestly.  But the great and successful
man found himself personally addressed, bidden not to be puffed up with his own greatness,
and stringently reminded of the highest example of humility, shown that he that exalteth himself
shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself be exalted.  The preacher concluded with a strong
personal exhortation to do righteousness and justice alike to rich and poor, joined with truth
and mercy, setting God always before him.

The sermon ended, Wolsey knelt at the altar, and Archbishop Wareham, who, like his immediate
predecessors, held legatine authority, performed the act of investiture, placing the scarlet
hat with its many loops and tassels on his brother primate's head, after which a magnificent
Te Deum rang through the beautiful church, and the procession of prelates, peers, and ecclesiastics
of all ranks in their richest array formed to escort the new Cardinal to banquet at his palace
with the King and Queen.

Ambrose, stationed by a column, let the throng rush, tumble, and jostle one another to behold
the show, till the Abbey was nearly empty, while he tried to work out the perplexing question
whether all this pomp and splendour were truly for the glory of God, or whether it were a delusion
for the temptation of men's souls.  It was a debate on which his old and his new guides seemed
to him at issue, and he was drawn in both directions--now by the beauty, order, and deep symbolism
of the Catholic ritual, now by the spirituality and earnestness of the men among whom he lived.
At one moment the worldly pomp, the mechanical and irreverent worship, and the gross and vicious
habits of many of the clergy repelled him; at another the reverence and conservatism of his
nature held him fast.

Presently he felt a hand on his shoulder, and started, "Lost in a stud, as we say at home,
boy," said the jester, resplendent in a bran new motley suit.  "Wilt come in to the banquet?
'Tis open house, and I can find thee a seat without disclosing the kinship that sits so sore
on thy brother.  Where is he?"

"I have not seen him this day."

"That did I," returned Randall, "as I rode by on mine ass.  He was ruffling it so lustily that
I could not but give him a wink, the which my gentleman could by no means stomach!  Poor lad!
Yet there be times, Ambrose, when I feel in sooth that mine office is the only honourable one,
since who besides can speak truth?  I love my lord; he is a kind, open-handed master, and there's
none I would so willingly serve, whether by jest or earnest, but what is he but that which
I oft call him in joke--the greater fool than I, selling peace and ease, truth and hope, this
life and the next, for yonder scarlet hat, which is after all of no more worth than this jingling
head-gear of mine."

"Deafening the spiritual ears far more, it may be," said Ambrose, "since humiles exaltaverint."

It was no small shock that there, in the midst of the nave, the answer was a bound, like a
ball, almost as high as the capital of the column by which they stood.  "There's exaltation!"
said Randall in a low voice, and Ambrose perceived that some strangers were in sight.  "Come,
seek thy brother out, boy, and bring him to the banquet.  I'll speak a word to Peter Porter,
and he'll let you in.  There'll be plenty of fooling all the afternoon, before my namesake
King Hal, who can afford to be an honester man in his fooling than any about him, and whose
laugh at a hearty jest is goodly to hear."

Ambrose thanked him and undertook the quest.  They parted at the great west door of the Abbey,
where, by way of vindicating his own character for buffoonery, Randall exclaimed, "Where be
mine ass?" and not seeing the animal, immediately declared, "There he is!" and at the same
time sprang upon the back and shoulders of a gaping and astonished clown who was gazing at
the rear of the procession.

The crowd applauded with shouts of coarse laughter, but a man, who seemed to belong to the
victim, broke in with an angry oath, and "How now, sir?"

"I cry you mercy," quoth the jester; "'twas mine own ass I sought, and if I have fallen on
thine, I will but ride him to York House and then restore him.  So ho! good jackass," crossing
his ankles on the poor fellow's chest so that he could not be shaken off.

The comrade lifted a cudgel, but there was a general cry of "My Lord Cardinal's jester, lay
not a finger on him!"

But Harry Randall was not one to brook immunity on the score of his master's greatness.  In
another second he was on his feet, had wrested the staff from the hands of his astounded beast
of burden, flourished it round his head after the most approved manner of Shirley champions
at Lyndhurst fair, and called to his adversary to "come on."

It did not take many rounds before Hal's dexterity had floored his adversary, and the shouts
of "Well struck, merry fool!"  "Well played, Quipsome Hal!" were rising high when the Abbot
of Westminster's yeomen were seen making way through the throng, which fell back in terror
on either side as they came to seize on the brawlers in their sacred precincts.

But here again my Lord Cardinal's fool was a privileged person, and no one laid a hand on him,
though his blood being up, he would, spite of his gay attire, have enjoyed a fight on equal
terms.  His quadruped donkey was brought up to him amid general applause, but when he looked
round for Ambrose, the boy had disappeared.

The better and finer the nature that displayed itself in Randall, the more painful was the
sight of his buffooneries to his nephew, and at the first leap, Ambrose had hurried away in
confusion.  He sought his brother here, there, everywhere, and at last came to the conclusion
that Stephen must have gone home to dinner.  He walked quickly across the fields separating
Westminster from the City of London, hoping to reach Cheapside before the lads of the Dragon
should have gone out again; but just as he was near Saint Paul's, coming round Amen Corner,
he heard the sounds of a fray.  "Have at the country lubbers!  Away with the moonrakers!  Flat-caps,
come on!"  "Hey! lads of the Eagle!  Down with the Dragons!  Adders!  Snakes-s-s-s-s-!"

There was a kicking, struggling mass of blue backs and yellow legs before him, from out of
which came "Yah!  Down with the Eagles! Cowards!  Kites!  Cockneys!"  There were plenty of
boys, men, women with children in their arms hallooing on, "Well done, Eagle!"  "Go it, Dragon!"

The word Dragon filled the quiet Ambrose with hot impulse to defend his brother.  All his gentle,
scholarly habits gave way before that cry, and a shout that he took to be Stephen's voice in
the midst of the melee.

He was fairly carried out of himself, and doubling his fists, fell on the back of the nearest
boys, intending to break through to his brother, and he found an unexpected ally.  Will Wherry's
voice called out, "Have with you, comrade!"--and a pair of hands and arms considerably stouter
and more used to fighting than his own, began to pommel right and left with such good will
that they soon broke through to the aid of their friends; and not before it was time, for Stephen,
Giles, and Edmund, with their backs against the wall, were defending themselves with all their
might against tremendous odds; and just as the new allies reached them, a sharp stone struck
Giles in the eye, and levelled him with the ground, his head striking against the wall.  Whether
it were from alarm at his fall, or at the unexpected attack in the rear, or probably from both
causes, the assailants dispersed in all directions without waiting to perceive how slender
the succouring force really was.

Edmund and Stephen were raising up the unlucky Giles, who lay quite insensible, with blood
pouring from his eye.  Ambrose tried to wipe it away, and there were anxious doubts whether
the eye itself were safe. They were some way from home, and Giles was the biggest and heaviest
of them all.

"Would that Kit Smallbones were here!" said Stephen, preparing to take the feet, while Edmund
took the shoulders.

"Look here," said Will Wherry, pulling Ambrose's sleeve, "our yard is much nearer, and the
old Moor, Master Michael, is safe to know what to do for him.  That sort of cattle always are
leeches.  He wiled the pain from my thumb when 'twas crushed in our printing-press.  Mayhap
if he put some salve to him, he might get home on his own feet."

Edmund listened.  "There's reason in that," he said.  "Dost know this leech, Ambrose?"

"I know him well.  He is a good old man, and wondrous wise.  Nay, no black arts; but he saith
his folk had great skill in herbs and the like, and though he be no physician by trade, he
hath much of their lore."

"Have with thee, then," returned Edmund, "the rather that Giles is no small weight, and the
guard might come on us ere we reached the Dragon."

"Or those cowardly rogues of the Eagle might set on us again," added Stephen; and as they went
on their way to Warwick Inner Ward, he explained that the cause of the encounter had been that
Giles had thought fit to prank himself in his father's silver chain, and thus George Bates,
always owing the Dragon a grudge, and rendered specially malicious since the encounter on Holy
Rood Day, had raised the cry against him, and caused all the flat-caps around to make a rush
at the gaud as lawful prey.

"'Tis clean against prentice statutes to wear one, is it not?" asked Ambrose.

"Ay," returned Stephen; "yet none of us but would stand up for our own comrade against those
meddling fellows of the Eagle."

"But," added Edmund, "we must beware the guard, for if they looked into the cause of the fray,
our master might be called on to give Giles a whipping in the Company's hall, this being a
second offence of going abroad in these vanities."

Ambrose went on before to prepare Miguel Abenali, and entreat his good offices, explaining
that the youth's master, who was also his kinsman, would be sure to give handsome payment for
any good offices to him.  He scarcely got out half the words; the grand old Arab waved his
hand and said, "When the wounded is laid before the tent of Ben Ali, where is the question
of recompense?  Peace be with thee, my son!  Bring him hither. Aldonza, lay the carpet yonder,
and the cushions beneath the window, where I may have light to look to his hurt."

Therewith he murmured a few words in an unknown tongue, which, as Ambrose understood, were
an invocation to the God of Abraham to bless his endeavours to heal the stranger youth, but
which happily were spoken before the arrival of the others, who would certainly have believed
them an incantation.

The carpet though worn threadbare, was a beautiful old Moorish rug, once glowing with brilliancy,
and still rich in colouring, and the cushion was of thick damask faded to a strange pale green.
All in that double- stalled partition, once belonging to the great earl's war-horses, was scrupulously
clean, for the Christian Moor had retained some of the peculiar virtues born of Mohammedanism
and of high civilisation.  The apprentice lads tramped in much as if they had been entering
a wizard's cave, though Stephen had taken care to assure Edmund of his application of the test
of holy water.

Following the old man's directions, Edmund and Stephen deposited their burden on the rug. 
Aldonza brought some warm water, and Abenali washed and examined the wound, Aldonza standing
by and handing him whatever he needed, now and then assisting with her slender brown hands
in a manner astonishing to the youths, who stood by anxious and helpless, while their companion
began to show signs of returning life.

Abenali pronounced that the stone had missed the eyeball, but the cut and bruise were such
as to require constant bathing, and the blow on the head was the more serious matter, for when
the patient tried to raise himself he instantly became sick and giddy, so that it would be
wise to leave him where he was.  This was much against the will of Edmund Burgess, who shared
all the prejudices of the English prentice against the foreigner--perhaps a wizard and rival
in trade; but there was no help for it, and he could only insist that Stephen should mount
guard over the bed until he had reported to his master, and returned with his orders.  Therewith
he departed, with such elaborate thanks and courtesies to the host, as betrayed a little alarm
in the tall apprentice, who feared not quarter-staff, nor wrestler, and had even dauntlessly
confronted the masters of his guild!

Stephen, sooth to say, was not very much at ease; everything around had such a strange un-English
aspect, and he imploringly muttered, "Bide with me, Am!" to which his brother willingly assented,
being quite as comfortable in Master Michael's abode as by his aunt's own hearth.

Giles meanwhile lay quiet and then, as his senses became less confused, and he could open one
eye, he looked dreamily about him, and presently began to demand where he was, and what had
befallen him, grasping at the hand of Ambrose as if to hold fast by something familiar; but
he still seemed too much dazed to enter into the explanation, and presently murmured something
about thirst.  Aldonza came softly up with a cup of something cool.  He looked very hard at
her, and when Ambrose would have taken it from her hand to give it to him, he said, "Nay!  Site!"

And site, with a sweet smile in her soft, dark, shady eyes, and on her full lips, held the
cup to his lips far more daintily and dexterously than either of his boy companions could have
done; then when he moaned and said his head and eye pained him, the white-bearded elder came
and bathed his brow with the soft sponge.  It seemed all to pass before him like a dream, and
it was not much otherwise with his unhurt companions, especially Stephen, who followed with
wonder the movements made by the slippered feet of father and daughter upon the mats which
covered the stone flooring of the old stable.  The mats were only of English rushes and flags,
and had been woven by Abenali and the child; but loose rashes strewing the floor were accounted
a luxury in the Forest, and even at the Dragon court the upper end of the hall alone had any
covering.  Then the water was heated, and all such other operations carried on over a curious
round vessel placed over charcoal; the window and the door had dark heavy curtains; and a matted
partition cut off the further stall, no doubt to serve as Aldonza's chamber.  Stephen looked
about for something to assure him that the place belonged to no wizard enchanter, and was glad
to detect a large white cross on the wall, with a holy- water stoup beneath it, but of images
there were none.

It seemed to him a long time before Master Headley's ruddy face, full of anxiety, appeared
at the door.

Blows were, of course, no uncommon matter; perhaps so long as no permanent injury was inflicted,
the master-armourer had no objection to anything that might knock the folly out of his troublesome
young inmate; but Edmund had made him uneasy for the youth's eye, and still more so about the
quarters he was in, and he had brought a mattress and a couple of men to carry the patient
home, as well as Steelman, his prime minister, to advise him.

He had left all these outside, however, and advanced, civilly and condescendingly thanking
the sword-cutler, in perfect ignorance that the man who stood before him had been born to a
home that was an absolute palace compared with the Dragon court.  The two men were a curious
contrast.  There stood the Englishman with his sturdy form inclining, with age, to corpulence,
his broad honest face telling of many a civic banquet, and his short stubbly brown grizzled
beard; his whole air giving a sense of worshipful authority and weight; and opposite to him
the sparely made, dark, thin, aquiline-faced, white-bearded Moor, a far smaller man in stature,
yet with a patriarchal dignity, refinement, and grace in port and countenance, belonging as
it were to another sphere.

Speaking English perfectly, though with a foreign accent, Abenali informed Master Headley that
his young kinsman would by Heaven's blessing soon recover without injury to the eye, though
perhaps a scar might remain.

Mr Headley thanked him heartily for his care, and said that he had brought men to carry the
youth home, if he could not walk; and then he went up to the couch with a hearty "How now,
Giles?  So thou hast had hard measure to knock the foolery out of thee, my poor lad.  But come,
we'll have thee home, and my mother will see to thee."

"I cannot walk," said Giles, heavily, hardly raising his eyes, and when he was told that two
of the men waited to bear him home, he only entreated to be let alone.  Somewhat sharply, Mr
Headley ordered him to sit up and make ready, but when he tried to do so, he sank back with
a return of sickness and dizziness.

Abenali thereupon intreated that he might be left to his care for that night, and stepping
out into the court so as to be unheard by the patient, explained that the brain had had a shock,
and that perfect quiet for some hours to come was the only way to avert a serious illness,
possibly dangerous.  Master Headley did not like the alternative at all, and was a good deal
perplexed.  He beckoned to Tibble Steelman, who had all this time been talking to Lucas Hansen,
and now came up prepared with his testimony that this Michael was a good man and true, a godly
one to boot, who had been wealthy in his own land and was a rare artificer in his own craft.

"Though he hath no license to practise it here," threw in Master Headley, sotto voce; but he
accepted the assurance that Michael was a good Christian, and, with his daughter, regularly
went to mass; and since better might not be, he reluctantly consented to leave Giles under
his treatment, on Lucas reiterating the assurance that he need have no fears of magic or foul
play of any sort.  He then took the purse that hung at his girdle, and declared that Master
Michael, (the title of courtesy was wrung from him by the stately appearance of the old man),
must be at no charges for his cousin.

But Abenali with a grace that removed all air of offence from his manner, returned thanks for
the intention, but declared that it never was the custom of the sons of Ali to receive reward
for the hospitality they exercised to the stranger within their gates.  And so it was that
Master Headley, a good deal puzzled, had to leave his apprentice under the roof of the old
sword-cutler for the night at least.

"'Tis passing strange," said he, as he walked back; "I know not what my mother will say, but
I wish all may be right.  I feel--I feel as if I had left the lad Giles with Abraham under
the oak tree, as we saw him in the miracle play!"

This description did not satisfy Mrs Headley, indeed she feared that her son was likewise bewitched;
and when, the next morning, Stephen, who had been sent to inquire for the patient, reported
him better, but still unable to be moved, since he could not lift his head without sickness,
she became very anxious.  Giles was transformed in her estimate from a cross-grained slip to
poor Robin Headley's boy, the only son of a widow, and nothing would content her but to make
her son conduct her to Warwick Inner Ward to inspect matters, and carry thither a precious
relic warranted proof against all sorcery.

It was with great trepidation that the good old dame ventured, but the result was that she
was fairly subdued by Abenali's patriarchal dignity. She had never seen any manners to equal
his, not even when King Edward the Fourth had come to her father's house at the Barbican, chucked
her under the chin, and called her a dainty duck!

It was Aldonza, however, who specially touched her feelings.  Such a sweet little wench, with
the air of being bred in a kingly or knightly court, to be living there close to the very dregs
of the city was a scandal and a danger--speaking so prettily too, and knowing how to treat
her elders.  She would be a good example for Dennet, who, sooth to say, was getting too old
for spoilt-child sauciness to be always pleasing, while as to Giles, he could not be in better
quarters.  Mrs Headley, well used to the dressing of the burns and bruises incurred in the
weapon-smiths' business, could not but confess that his eye had been dealt with as skilfully
as she could have done it herself.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

THE KNIGHT OF THE BADGER.

  "I am a gentleman of a company."
  Shakespeare.

Giles Headley's accident must have amounted to concussion of the brain, for though he was able
to return to the Dragon in a couple of days, and the cut over his eye was healing fast, he
was weak and shaken, and did not for several weeks recover his usual health.

The noise and heat of the smithy were distressing to him, and there was no choice but to let
him lie on settles, sun himself on the steps, and attempt no work.

It had tamed him a good deal.  Smallbones said the letting out of malapert blood was wholesome,
and others thought him still under a spell; but he seemed to have parted with much of his arrogance,
either because he had not spirits for self-assertion, or because something of the grand eastern
courtesy of Abenali had impressed him.  For intercourse with the Morisco had by no means ceased.
Giles went, as long as the injury required it, to have the hurt dressed, and loitered in the
Inner Ward a long time every day, often securing some small dainty for Aldonza--an apple, a
honey cake, a bit of marchpane, a dried plum, or a comfit.  One day he took her a couple of
oranges.  To his surprise, as he entered, Abenali looked up with a strange light in his eyes,
and exclaimed, "My son! thy scent is to my nostrils as the court of my fathouse!"  Then, as
he beheld the orange, he clasped his hands, took it in them, and held it to his breast, pouring
out a chant in an unknown tongue, while the tears flowed down his cheeks.

"Father, father!"  Aldonza cried, terrified, while Giles marvelled whether the orange worked
on him like a spell.  But he perceived their amazement, and spoke again in English, "I thank
thee, my son!  Thou hast borne me back for a moment to the fountain in my father's house, where
ye grow, ye trees of the unfading leaf, the spotless blossom, and golden fruit!  Ah Ronda!
Ronda!  Land of the sunshine, the deep blue sky, and snow-topped hills!  Land where are the
graves of my father and mother! How pines and sickens the heart of the exile for thee!  O happy
they who died beneath the sword or flame, for they knew not the lonely home- longing of the
exile.  Ah! ye golden fruits!  One fragrant breath of thee is as a waft of the joys of my youth!
Are ye foretastes of the fruits of Paradise, the true home to which I may yet come, though
I may never, never see the towers and hills of Ronda more?"

Giles knew not what to make of this outburst.  He kept it to himself as too strange to be told.
The heads of the family were willing that he should carry these trifles to the young child
of the man who would accept no reward for his hospitality.  Indeed, Master Headley spent much
consideration on how to recompense the care bestowed on his kinsman.

Giles suggested that Master Michael had just finished the most beautiful sword blade he had
ever seen, and had not yet got a purchaser for it; it was far superior to the sword Tibble
had just completed for my Lord of Surrey.  Thereat the whole court broke into an outcry; that
any workman should be supposed to turn out any kind of work surpassing Steelman's was rank
heresy, and Master Headley bluntly told Giles that he knew not what he was talking of!  He
might perhaps purchase the blade by way of courtesy and return of kindness, but--good English
workmanship for him!

However, Giles was allowed to go and ask the price of the blade, and bring it to be looked
at.  When he returned to the court he found, in front of the building where finished suits
were kept for display, a tall, thin, wiry, elderly man, deeply bronzed, and with a scar on
his brow.  Master Headley and Tibble were both in attendance, Tib measuring the stranger, and
Stephen, who was standing at a respectful distance, gave Giles the information that this was
the famous Captain of Free- lances, Sir John Fulford, who had fought in all the wars in Italy,
and was going to fight in them again, but wanted a suit of "our harness."

The information was hardly needed, for Sir John, in a voice loud enough to lead his men to
the battle-field, and with all manner of strong asseverations in all sorts of languages, was
explaining the dints and blows that had befallen the mail he had had from Master Headley eighteen
years ago, when he was but a squire; how his helmet had endured tough blows, and saved his
head at Novara, but had been crushed like an egg shell by a stone from the walls at Barletta,
which had nearly been his own destruction: and how that which he at present wore (beautifully
chased and in a classical form) was taken from a dead Italian Count on the field of Ravenna,
but always sat amiss on him; and how he had broken his good sword upon one of the rascally
Swiss only a couple of months ago at Marignano.  Having likewise disabled his right arm, and
being well off through the payment of some ransoms, he had come home partly to look after his
family, and partly to provide himself with a full suit of English harness, his present suit
being a patchwork of relics of numerous battle-fields.  Only one thing he desired, a true Spanish
sword, not only Toledo or Bilboa in name, but nature.  He had seen execution done by the weapons
of the soldiers of the Great Captain, and been witness to the endurance of their metal, and
this made him demand whether Master Headley could provide him with the like.

Giles took the moment for stepping forward and putting Abenali's work into the master's hand.
The Condottiere was in raptures.  He pronounced it as perfect a weapon as Gouzalo de Cordova
himself could possess; showed off its temper and his own dexterity by piercing and cutting
up an old cuirass, and invited the bystanders to let him put it to further proof by letting
him slice through an apple placed on the open palm of the hand.

Giles's friendship could not carry him so far as to make the venture; Kit Smallbones observed
that he had a wife and children, and could not afford to risk his good right hand on a wandering
soldier's bravado; Edmund was heard saying, "Nay, nay, Steve, don't be such a fool," but Stephen
was declaring he would not have the fellow say that English lads hunt back from what rogues
of France and Italy would dare.

"No danger for him who winceth not," said the knight.

Master Headley, a very peaceful citizen in his composition in spite of his trade, was much
inclined to forbid Stephen from the experiment, but he refrained, ashamed and unwilling to
daunt a high spirit; and half the household, eager for the excitement, rushed to the kitchen
in quest of apples, and brought out all the women to behold, and add a clamour of remonstrance.

Sir John, however, insisted that they should all be ordered back again. "Not that the noise
and clamour of women folk makes any odds to me," said the grim old warrior, "I've seen too
many towns taken for that, but it might make the lad queasy, and cost him a thumb or so."

Of course this renewed the dismay and excitement, and both Tibble and his master entreated
Stephen to give up the undertaking if he felt the least misgiving as to his own steadiness,
arguing that they should not think him any more a craven than they did Kit Smallbones or Edmund
Burgess.  But Stephen's mind was made up, his spirit was high, and he was resolved to go through
with it.

He held out his open hand, a rosy-checked apple was carefully laid on it.  The sword flashed
through the air--divided in half the apple which remained on Stephen's palm.  There was a sharp
shriek from a window, drowned in the acclamations of the whole court, while the Captain patted
Stephen on the shoulder, exclaiming, "Well done, my lad.  There's the making of a tall fellow
in thee!  If ever thou art weary of making weapons and wouldst use them instead, seek out John
Fulford, of the Badger troop, and thou shalt have a welcome.  Our name is the Badger, because
there's no troop like us for digging out mines beneath the walls."

A few months ago such an invitation would have been bliss to Stephen. Now he was bound in all
honour and duty to his master, and could only thank the knight of the Badger, and cast a regretful
eye at him, as he drank a cup of wine, and flung a bag of gold and silver, supplemented by
a heavy chain, to Master Headley, who prudently declined working for Free Companions, unless
he were paid beforehand; and, at the knight's request, took charge of a sufficient amount to
pay his fare back again to the Continent.  Then mounting a tall, lean, bony horse, the knight
said he should call for his armour on returning from Somerset, and rode off, while Stephen
found himself exalted as a hero in the eyes of his companions for an act common enough at feats
of arms among modern cavalry, but quite new to the London flat-caps.  The only sufferer was
little Dennet, who had burst into an agony of crying at the sight, needed that Stephen should
spread out both hands before her, and show her the divided apple, before she would believe
that his thumb was in its right place, and at night screamed out in her sleep that the ill-
favoured man was cutting off Stephen's hands.

The sword was left behind by Sir John in order that it might be fitted with a scabbard and
belt worthy of it; and on examination, Master Headley and Tibble both confessed that they could
produce nothing equal to it in workmanship, though Kit looked with contempt at the slight weapon
of deep blue steel, with lines meandering on it like a watered silk, and the upper part inlaid
with gold wire in exquisite arabesque patterns.  He called it a mere toy, and muttered something
about sorcery, and men who had been in foreign parts not thinking honest weight of English
steel good enough for them.

Master Headley would not trust one of the boys with the good silver coins that had been paid
as the price of the sword--French crowns and Milanese ducats, with a few Venetian gold bezants--but
he bade them go as guards to Tibble, for it was always a perilous thing to carry a sum of money
through the London streets.  Tibble was not an unwilling messenger.  He knew Master Michael
to be somewhat of his own way of thinking, and he was a naturally large-minded man who could
appreciate skill higher than his own without jealousy.  Indeed, he and his master held a private
consultation on the mode of establishing a connection with Michael and profiting by his ability.

To have lodged him at the Dragon court and made him part of the establishment might have seemed
the most obvious way, but the dogged English hatred and contempt of foreigners would have rendered
this impossible, even if Abenali himself would have consented to give up his comparative seclusion
and live in a crowd and turmoil.

But he was thankful to receive and execute orders from Master Headley, since so certain a connection
would secure Aldonza from privation such as the child had sometimes had to endure in the winter;
when, though the abstemious Eastern nature needed little food, there was great suffering from
cold and lack of fuel.  And Tibble moreover asked questions and begged for instructions in
some of the secrets of the art.  It was an effort to such a prime artificer as Steelman to
ask instruction from any man, especially a foreigner, but Tibble had a nature of no common
order, and set perfection far above class prejudice; and moreover, he felt Abenali to be one
of those men who had their inner eyes devotedly fixed on the truth, though little knowing where
the quest would lead them.

On his side Abenali underwent a struggle.  "Woe is me!" he said. "Wottest thou, my son, that
the secrets of the sword of light and swiftness are the heritage that Abdallah Ben Ali brought
from Damascus in the hundred and fifty-third year of the flight of him whom once I termed the
prophet; nor have they departed from our house, but have been handed on from father to son.
And shall they be used in the wars of the stranger and the Christian?"

"I feared it might be thus," said Tibble.

"And yet," went on the old man, as if not hearing him, "wherefore should I guard the secret
any longer?  My sons?  Where are they?  They brooked not the scorn and hatred of the Castillian
which poisoned to them the new faith.  They cast in their lot with their own people, and that
their bones may lie bleaching on the mountains is the best lot that can have befallen the children
of my youth and hope.  The house of Miguel Abenali is desolate and childless, save for the
little maiden who sits by my hearth in the land of my exile!  Why should I guard it longer
for him who may wed her, and whom I may never behold?  The will of Heaven be done!  Young man,
if I bestow this knowledge on thee, wilt thou swear to be as a father to my daughter, and to
care for her as thine own?"

It was a good while since Tibble had been called a young man, and as he listened to the flowing
Eastern periods in their foreign enunciation, he was for a moment afraid that the price of
the secret was that he should become the old Moor's son-in-law!  His seared and scarred youth
had precluded marriage, and he entertained the low opinion of women frequent in men of superior
intellect among the uneducated.  Besides, the possibilities of giving umbrage to Church authorities
were dawning on him, and he was not willing to form any domestic ties, so that in every way
such a proposition would have been unwelcome to him.  But he had no objection to pledge himself
to fatherly guardianship of the pretty child in case of a need that might never arise.  So
he gave the promise, and became a pupil of Abenali, visiting Warwick Inner Ward with his master's
consent whenever he could be snared, while the workmanship at the Dragon began to profit thereby.

The jealousy of the Eagle was proportionately increased.  Alderman Itillyeo, the head of the
Eagle, was friendly enough to Mr Headley, but it was undeniable that they were the rival armourers
of London, dividing the favours of the Court equally between them, and the bitterness of the
emulation increased the lower it went in the establishment.  The prentices especially could
hardly meet without gibes and sneers, if nothing worse, and Stephen's exploit had a peculiar
flavour because it was averred that no one at the Eagle would have done the like.

But it was not till the Sunday that Ambrose chanced to hear of the feat, at which he turned
quite pale, but he was prouder of it than any one else, and although he rejoiced that he had
not seen it performed, he did not fail to boast of it at home, though Perronel began by declaring
that she did not care for the mad pranks of roistering prentices; but presently she paused,
as she stirred her grandfather's evening posset, and said, "What saidst thou was the strange
soldier's name?"

"Fulford--Sir John Fulford," said Ambrose.  "What?  I thought not of it, is not that Gaffer's
name?"

"Fulford, yea!  Mayhap--" and Perronel sat down and gave an odd sort of laugh of agitation--"mayhap
'tis mine own father."

"Shouldst thou know him, good aunt?" cried Ambrose, much excited.

"Scarce," she said.  "I was not seven years old when he went to the wars--if so be he lived
through the battle--and he recked little of me, being but a maid.  I feared him greatly and
so did my mother.  'Twas happier with only Gaffer!  Where saidst thou he was gone?"

Ambrose could not tell, but he undertook to bring Stephen to answer all queries on the subject.
His replies that the Captain was gone in quest of his family to Somersetshire settled the matter,
since there had been old Martin Fulford's abode, and there John Fulford had parted with his
wife and father.  They did not, however, tell the old man of the possibility of his son's being
at home, he had little memory, and was easily thrown into a state of agitation; besides, it
was a doubtful matter how the Condottiere would feel as to the present fortunes of the family.
Stephen was to look out for his return in quest of his suit of armour, inform him of his father's
being alive, and show him the way to the little house by the Temple Gardens; but Perronel gave
the strictest injunctions that her husband's profession should not be explained.  It would
be quite enough to say that he was of the Lord Cardinal's household.

Stephen watched, but the armour was finished and Christmas passed by before anything was seen
of the Captain.  At last, however, he did descend on the Dragon court, looking so dilapidated
that Mr Headley rejoiced in the having received payment beforehand.  He was louder voiced and
fuller of strange oaths than ever, and in the utmost haste, for he had heard tidings that,
"there was to be a lusty game between the Emperor and the Italians, and he must have his share."

Stephen made his way up to speak to him, and was received with, "Ha, my gallant lad!  Art weary
of hammer and anvil?  Wouldst be a brave Badger, slip thine indentures, and hear helm and lance
ring in good earnest?"

"Not so, sir," said Stephen, "but I have been bidden to ask if thou hast found thy father?"

"What's that to thee, stripling?  When thou hast cut thy wisdom teeth, thou'lt know old fathers
be not so easy found.  'Twas a wild goose chase, and I wot not what moved me to run after it.
I met jolly comrades enough, bumpkins that could drink with an honest soldier when they saw
him, but not one that ever heard the name of Fulford."

"Sir," said Stephen, "I know an old man named Fulford.  His grand- daughter is my uncle's wife,
and they dwell by the Temple."

The intelligence seemed more startling and less gratifying than Stephen had expected.  Sir
John demanded whether they were poor, and declared that he had better have heard of them when
his purse was fuller.  He had supposed that his wife had given him up and found a fresh mate,
and when he heard of her death, he made an exclamation which might be pity, but had in it something
of relief.  He showed more interest about his old father; but as to his daughter, if she had
been a lad now, a' might have been a stout comrade by this time, ready to do the Badger credit.
Yea, his poor Kate was a good lass, but she was only a Flemish woman and hadn't the sense to
rear aught but a whining little wench, who was of no good except to turn fools' heads, and
she was wedded and past all that by this time.

Stephen explained that she was wedded to one of the Lord Cardinal's meine.

"Ho!" said the Condottiere, pausing, "be that the butcher's boy that is pouring out his gold
to buy scarlet hats, if not the three crowns.  'Tis no bad household wherein to have a footing.
Saidst thou I should find my wench and the old Gaffer there?"

Stephen had to explain, somewhat to the disappointment of the Captain, who had, as it appeared,
in the company of three or four more adventurous spirits like himself, taken a passage in a
vessel lying off Gravesend, and had only turned aside to take up his new armour and his deposit
of passage-money.  He demurred a little, he had little time to spare, and though, of course,
he could take boat at the Temple Stairs, and drop down the river, he observed that it would
have been a very different thing to go home to the old man when he first came back with a pouch
full of ransoms and plunder, whereas now he had barely enough to carry him to the place of
meeting with his Badgers.  And there was the wench too--he had fairly forgotten her name. 
Women were like she wolves for greed when they had a brood of whelps.

Stephen satisfied him that there was no danger on that score, and heard him muttering, that
it was no harm to secure a safe harbour in case a man hadn't the luck to be knocked on the
head ere he grew too old to trail a pike.  And he would fain see the old man.

So permission was asked for Stephen to show the way to Master Randall's, and granted somewhat
reluctantly, Master Headley saying, "I'll have thee back within an hour, Stephen Birkenholt,
and look thou dost not let thy brain be set afire with this fellow's windy talk of battles
and sieges, and deeds only fit for pagans and wolves."

"Ay!" said Tibble, perhaps with a memory of the old fable, "better be the trusty mastiff than
the wolf."

And like the wolf twitting the mastiff with his chain, the soldier was no sooner outside the
door of the Dragon court before he began to express his wonder how a lad of mettle could put
up with a flat cap, a blue gown, and the being at the beck and call of a greasy burgher, when
a bold, handsome young knave like him might have the world before him and his stout pike.

Stephen was flattered, but scarcely tempted.  The hard selfishness and want of affection of
the Condottiere shocked him, while he looked about, hoping some of his acquaintance would see
him in company with this tall figure clanking in shining armour, and with a knightly helmet
and gilt spurs.  The armour, new and brilliant, concealed the worn and shabby leathern dress
beneath, and gave the tall, spare figure a greater breadth, diminishing the look of a hungry
wolf which Sir John Fulford's aspect suggested.  However, as he passed some of the wealthier
stalls, where the apprentices, seeing the martial figure, shouted, "What d'ye lack, sir knight?"
and offered silk and velvet robes and mantles, gay sword knots, or even rich chains, under
all the clamour, Stephen heard him swearing by Saint George what a place this would be for
a sack, if his Badgers were behind him.

"If that poor craven of a Warbeck had had a spark of valour in him," quoth he, as he passed
a stall gay with bright tankards and flagons, "we would have rattled some of that shining gear
about the lazy citizens' ears!  He, jolly King Edward's son!  I'll never give faith to it!
To turn his back when there was such a booty to be had for the plundering."

"He might not have found it so easy.  Our trainbands are sturdy enough," said Stephen, whose
esprit de corps was this time on the Londoners' side, but the knight of the Badger snapped
his fingers, and said, "So much for your burgher trainbands!  All they be good for with their
show of fight is to give honest landsknechts a good reason to fall on to the plunder, if so
be one is hampered by a squeamish prince.  But grammercy to Saint George, there be not many
of that sort after they be once fleshed!"

Perhaps a year ago, when fresh from the Forest, Stephen might have been more captivated by
the notion of adventure and conquest.  Now that he had his place in the community and looked
on a civic position with wholesome ambition, Fulford's longings for havoc in these peaceful
streets made his blood run cold.  He was glad when they reached their destination, and he saw
Perronel with bare arms, taking in some linen cuffs and bands from a line across to the opposite
wall.  He could only call out, "Good naunt, here he be!"

Perronel turned round, the colour rising in her cheeks, with an obeisance, but trembling a
good deal.  "How now, wench?  Thou art grown a buxom dame.  Thou makst an old man of me," said
the soldier with a laugh.  "Where's my father?  I have not the turning of a cup to stay, for
I'm come home poor as a cat in a plundered town, and am off to the wars again; but hearing
that the old man was nigh at hand, I came this way to see him, and let thee know thou art a
knight's daughter.  Thou art indifferent comely, girl, what's thy name? but not the peer of
thy mother when I wooed her as one of the bonny lasses of Bruges."

He gave a kind of embrace, while she gave a kind of gasp of "Welcome, sir," and glanced somewhat
reproachfully at Stephen for not having given her more warning.  The cause of her dismay was
plain as the Captain, giving her no time to precede him, strode into the little chamber, where
Hal Randall, without his false beard or hair, and in his parti-coloured hose, was seated by
the cupboard-like bed, assisting old Martin Fulford to take his mid-day meal.

"Be this thine husband, girl?  Ha! ha!  He's more like a jolly friar come in to make thee merry
when the good man is out!" exclaimed the visitor, laughing loudly at his own rude jest; but
heeding little either Hal's appearance or his reply, as he caught the old man's bewildered
eyes, and heard his efforts to utter his name.

For eighteen years had altered John Fulford less than either his father or his daughter, and
old Martin recognised him instantly, and held out the only arm he could use, while the knight,
softened, touched, and really feeling more natural affection than Stephen had given him credit
for, dropped on his knee, breaking into indistinct mutterings with rough but hearty greetings,
regretting that he had not found his father sooner, when his pouch was full, lamenting the
change in him, declaring that he must hurry away now, but promising to come back with sacks
of Italian ducats to provide for the old man.

Those who could interpret the imperfect utterance, now further choked by tears and agitation,
knew that there was a medley of broken rejoicings, blessings, and weepings, in the midst of
which the soldier, glad perhaps to end a scene where he became increasingly awkward and embarrassed,
started up, hastily kissed the old man on each of his withered cheeks, gave another kiss to
his daughter, threw her two Venetian ducats, bidding her spend them for the old man, and he
would bring a pouchful more next time, and striding to the door, bade Stephen call a boat to
take him down to Gravesend.

Randall, who had in the meantime donned his sober black gown in the inner chamber, together
with a dark hood, accompanied his newly found father-in-law down the river, and Stephen would
fain have gone too, but for the injunction to return within the hour.

Perronel had hurried back to her grandfather's side to endeavour to compose him after the shock
of gladness.  But it had been too much for his enfeebled powers.  Another stroke came on before
the day was over, and in two or three days more old Martin Fulford was laid to rest, and his
son's ducats were expended on masses for his soul's welfare.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

HEAVE HALF A BRICK AT HIM.

  "For strangers then did so increase,
  By reason of King Henry's queen,
  And privileged in many a place
  To dwell, as was in London seen.
  Poor tradesmen had small dealing then
  And who but strangers bore the bell,
  Which was a grief to Englishmen
  To see them here in London dwell."
  Ill May Day,
  by Churchill, a Contemporary Poet.

Time passed on, and Edmund Burgess, who had been sent from York to learn the perfection of
his craft, completed his term and returned to his home, much regretted in the Dragon court,
where his good humour and good sense had generally kept the peace, both within and without.

Giles Headley was now the eldest prentice.  He was in every way greatly improved, thoroughly
accepting his position, and showing himself quite ready both to learn and to work; but he had
not the will or the power of avoiding disputes with outsiders, or turning them aside with a
merry jest; and rivalries and quarrels with the armoury at the Eagle began to increase.  The
Dragon, no doubt, turned out finer workmanship, and this the Eagle alleged was wholly owing
to nefarious traffic with the old Spanish or Moorish sorcerer in Warwick Inner Ward, a thing
unworthy of honest Englishmen.

This made Giles furious, and the cry never failed to end in a fight, in which Stephen supported
the cause of the one house, and George Bates and his comrades of the other.

It was the same with even the archery at Mile End, where the butts were erected, and the youth
contended with the long bow, which was still considered as the safeguard of England.  King
Henry often looked in on these matches, and did honour to the winners.  One match there was
in especial, on Mothering Sunday, when the champions of each guild shot against one another
at such a range that it needed a keen eye to see the popinjay--a stuffed bird at which they shot.

Stephen was one of these, his forest lore having always given him an advantage over many of
the others.  He even was one of the last three who were to finish the sport by shooting against
one another.  One was a butcher named Barlow.  The other was a Walloon, the best shot among
six hundred foreigners of various nations, all of whom, though with little encouragement, joined
in the national sport on these pleasant spring afternoons.  The first contest threw out the
Walloon, at which there were cries of ecstasy; now the trial was between Barlow and Stephen,
and in this final effort, the distance of the pole to which the popinjay was fastened was so
much increased that strength of arm told as much as accuracy of aim, and Stephen's seventeen
years' old muscles could not, after so long a strain, cope with those of Ralph Barlow, a butcher
of full thirty years old.  His wrist and arm began to shake with weariness, and only one of
his three last arrows went straight to the mark, while Barlow was as steady as ever, and never
once failed.  Stephen was bitterly disappointed, his eyes filled with tears, and he flung himself
down on the turf, feeling as if the shouts of "A Barlow! a Barlow!" which were led by the jovial
voice of King Harry himself, were all exulting over him.

Barlow was led up to the king, who hailed him "King of Shoreditch," a title borne by the champion
archer ever after, so long as bowmanship in earnest lasted.  A tankard which the king filled
with silver pieces was his prize, but Henry did not forget Number 2.  "Where's the other fellow?"
he said.  "He was but a stripling, and to my mind, his feat was a greater marvel than that
of a stalwart fellow like Barlow."

Half a dozen of the spectators, among them the cardinal's hurried in search of Stephen, who
was roused from his fit of weariness and disappointment by a shake of the shoulder as his uncle
jingled his bells in his ears, and exclaimed, "How now, here I own a cousin!"  Stephen sat
up and stared with angry, astonished eyes, but only met a laugh.  "Ay, ay, 'tis but striplings
and fools that have tears to spend for such as this!  Up, boy!  D'ye hear?  The other Hal is
asking for thee."

And Stephen, hastily brushing away his tears, and holding his flat cap in his hand, was marshalled
across the mead, hot, shy, and indignant, as the jester mopped and mowed, and cut all sorts
of antics before him, turning round to observe in an encouraging voice, "Pluck up a heart,
man!  One would think Hal was going to cut off thine head!"  And then, on arriving where the
king sat on his horse, "Here he is, Hal, such as he is come humbly to crave thy gracious pardon
for hitting the mark no better!  He'll mend his ways, good my lord, if your grace will pardon
him this time."

"Ay, marry, and that will I," said the king.  "The springald bids fair to be King of Shoreditch
by the time the other fellow abdicates.  How old art thou, my lad?"

"Seventeen, an it please your grace," said Stephen, in the gruff voice of his age.

"And thy name?"

"Stephen Birkenholt, my liege," and he wondered whether he would be recognised; but Henry only
said--

"Methinks I've seen those sloe-black eyes before.  Or is it only that the lad is thy very marrow,
quipsome one?"

"The which," returned the jester, gravely, while Stephen tingled all over with dismay, "may
account for the tears the lad was wasting at not having the thews of the fellow double his
age!  But I envy him not!  Not I!  He'll never have wit for mine office, but will come in second
there likewise."

"I dare be sworn he will," said the king.  "Here, take this, my good lad, and prank thee in
it when thou art out of thy time, and goest a- hunting in Epping!"

It was a handsome belt with a broad silver clasp, engraven with the Tudor rose and portcullis;
and Stephen bowed low and made his acknowledgments as best he might.

He was hailed with rapturous acclamations by his own contemporaries, who held that he had saved
the credit of the English prentice world, and insisted on carrying him enthroned on their shoulders
back to Cheapside, in emulation of the journeymen and all the butcher kind, who were thus bearing
home the King of Shoreditch.

Shouts, halloos, whistles, every jubilant noise that youth and boyhood could invent, were the
triumphant music of Stephen on his surging and uneasy throne, as he was shifted from one bearer
to another when each in turn grew tired of his weight.  Just, however, as they were nearing
their own neighbourhood, a counter cry broke out, "Witchcraft!  His arrows are bewitched by
the old Spanish sorcerer!  Down with Dragons and Wizards!"  And a handful of mud came full
in the face of the enthroned lad, aimed no doubt by George Bates.  There was a yell and rush
of rage, but the enemy was in numbers too small to attempt resistance, and dashed off before
their pursuers, only pausing at safe corners to shout Parthian darts of "Wizards!"  "Magic!"
"Sorcerers!"  "Heretics!"

There was nothing to be done but to collect again, and escort Stephen, who had wiped the mud
off his face, to the Dragon court, where Dennet danced on the steps for joy, and Master Headley,
not a little gratified, promised Stephen a supper for a dozen of his particular friends at
Armourers' Hall on the ensuing Easter Sunday.

Of course Stephen went in search of his brother, all the more eagerly because he was conscious
that they had of late drifted apart a good deal.  Ambrose was more and more absorbed by the
studies to which Lucas Hansen led him, and took less and less interest in his brother's pursuits.
He did indeed come to the Sunday's dinner according to the regular custom, but the moment it
was permissible to leave the board he was away with Tibble Steelman to meet friends of Lucas,
and pursue studies, as if, Stephen thought, he had not enough of books as it was. When Dean
Colet preached or catechised in Saint Paul's in the afternoon they both attended and listened,
but that good man was in failing health, and his wise discourses were less frequent.

Where they were at other times, Stephen did not know, and hardly cared, except that he had
a general dislike to, and jealousy of, anything that took his brother's sympathy away from
him.  Moreover Ambrose's face was thinner and paler, he had a strange absorbed look, and often
even when they were together seemed hardly to attend to what his brother was saying.

"I will make him come," said Stephen to himself, as he went with swinging gait towards Warwick
Inner Ward, where, sure enough, he found Ambrose sitting at the door, frowning over some black-letter
which looked most uninviting in the eyes of the apprentice, and he fell upon his brother with
half angry, half merry reproofs for wasting the fine spring afternoon over such studies.

Ambrose looked up with a dreamy smile and greeted his brother; but all the time Stephen was
narrating the history of the match, (and he did tell the fate of each individual arrow of his
own or Barlow's), his eyes were wandering back to the crabbed page in his hand, and when Stephen
impatiently wound up his history with the invitation to supper on Easter Sunday, the reply
was, "Nay, brother, thanks, but that I cannot do."

"Cannot!" exclaimed Stephen.

"Nay, there are other matters in hand that go deeper."

"Yea, I know whatever concerns musty books goes deeper with thee than thy brother," replied
Stephen, turning away much mortified.

Ambrose's warm nature was awakened.  He held his brother by the arm and declared himself anything
but indifferent to him, but he owned that he did not love noise and revelry, above all on Sunday.

"Thou art addling thy brains with preachings!" said Stephen.  "Pray Heaven they make not a
heretic of thee.  But thou mightest for once have come to mine own feast."

Ambrose, much perplexed and grieved at thus vexing his brother, declared that he would have
done so with all his heart, but that this very Easter Sunday there was coming a friend of Master
Hansen's from Holland: who was to tell them much of the teaching in Germany, which was so enlightening
men's eyes.

"Yea, truly, making heretics of them, Mistress Headley saith," returned Stephen.  "O Ambrose,
if thou wilt run after these books and parchments, canst not do it in right fashion, among
holy monks, as of old?"

"Holy monks!" repeated Ambrose.  "Holy monks!  Where be they?"

Stephen stared at him.

"Hear uncle Hal talk of monks whom he sees at my Lord Cardinal's table! What holiness is there
among them?  Men, that have vowed to renounce all worldly and carnal things flaunt like peacocks
and revel like swine--my Lord Cardinal with his silver pillars foremost of them!  He poor and
mortified!  'Tis verily as our uncle saith, he plays the least false and shameful part there!"

"Ambrose, Ambrose, thou wilt be distraught, poring over these matters that were never meant
for lads like us!  Do but come and drive them out for once with mirth and good fellowship."

"I tell thee, Stephen, what thou callest mirth and good fellowship do but drive the pain in
deeper.  Sin and guilt be everywhere.  I seem to see the devils putting foul words on the tongue
and ill deeds in the hands of myself and all around me, that they may accuse us before God.
No, Stephen, I cannot, cannot come.  I must go where I can hear of a better way."

"Nay," said Stephen, "what better way can there be than to be shriven-- clean shriven--and
then houselled, as I was ere Lent, and trust to be again on next Low Sunday morn?  That's enough
for a plain lad."  He crossed himself reverently, "Mine own Lord pardoneth and cometh to me."

But the two minds, one simple and practical, the other sensitive and speculative, did not move
in the same atmosphere, and could not understand one another.  Ambrose was in the condition
of excitement and bewilderment produced by the first stirrings of the Reformation upon enthusiastic
minds.  He had studied the Vulgate, made out something of the Greek Testament, read all fragments
of the Fathers that came in his way, and also all the controversial "tractates," Latin or Dutch,
that he could meet with, and attended many a secret conference between Lucas and his friends,
when men, coming from Holland or Germany, communicated accounts of the lectures and sermons
of Dr Martin Luther, which already were becoming widely known.

He was wretched under the continual tossings of his mind.  Was the entire existing system a
vast delusion, blinding the eyes and destroying the souls of those who trusted to it; and was
the only safety in the one point of faith that Luther pressed on all, and ought all that he
had hitherto revered to crumble down to let that alone be upheld?  Whatever he had once loved
and honoured at times seemed to him a lie, while at others real affection and veneration, and
dread of sacrilege, made him shudder at himself and his own doubts!  It was his one thought,
and he passionately sought after all those secret conferences which did but feed the flame
that consumed him.

The elder men who were with him were not thus agitated.  Lucas's convictions had not long been
fixed.  He did not court observation nor do anything unnecessarily to bring persecution on
himself, but he quietly and secretly acted as an agent in dispersing the Lollard books and
those of Erasmus, and lived in the conviction that there would one day be a great crash, believing
himself to be doing his part by undermining the structure, and working on undoubtingly.  Abenali
was not aggressive.  In fact, though he was reckoned among Lucas's party, because of his abstinence
from all cult of saints or images, and the persecution he had suffered, he did not join in
their general opinions, and held aloof from their meetings.  And Tibble Steelman, as has been
before said, lived two lives, and that as foreman at the Dragon court, being habitual to him,
and requiring much thought and exertion, the speculations of the reformers were to him more
like an intellectual relaxation than the business of life.  He took them as a modern artisan
would in this day read his newspaper, and attend his club meeting.

Ambrose, however, had the enthusiastic practicalness of youth.  On that which he fully believed,
he must act, and what did he fully believe?

Boy as he was--scarcely yet eighteen--the toils and sports that delighted his brother seemed
to him like toys amusing infants on the verge of an abyss, and he spent his leisure either
in searching in the Vulgate for something to give him absolute direction, or in going in search
of preachers, for, with the stirring of men's minds, sermons were becoming more frequent.

There was much talk just now of the preaching of one Doctor Beale, to whom all the tradesmen,
Journeymen, and apprentices were resorting, even those who were of no special religious tendencies.
Ambrose went on Easter Tuesday to hear him preach at Saint Mary's Spitall.  The place was crowded
with artificers, and Beale began by telling them that he had "a pitiful bill," meaning a letter,
brought to him declaring how aliens and strangers were coming in to inhabit the City and suburbs,
to eat the bread from poor fatherless children, and take the living from all artificers and
the intercourse from merchants, whereby poverty was so much increased that each bewaileth the
misery of others.  Presently coming to his text, "Caelum caeli Domini, terram autem dedit filiis
hominis," (the Heaven of Heavens is the Lord's, the earth hath He given to the children of
men), the doctor inculcated that England was given to Englishmen, and that as birds would defend
their nests, so ought Englishmen to defend themselves, and to hurt and grieve aliens for the
common weal!  The corollary a good deal resembled that of "hate thine enemy" which was foisted
by "them of the old time" upon "thou shalt love thy neighbour."  And the doctor went on upon
the text, "Pugna pro patria," to demonstrate that fighting for one's country meant rising upon
and expelling all the strangers who dwelt and traded within it. Many of these foreigners were
from the Hanse towns which had special commercial privileges, there were also numerous Venetians
and Genoese, French and Spaniards, the last of whom were, above all, the objects of dislike.
Their imports of silks, cloth of gold, stamped leather, wine and oil, and their superior skill
in many handicrafts, had put English wares out of fashion; and their exports of wool, tin,
and lead excited equal jealousy, which Dr Beale, instigated as was well known by a broker named
John Lincoln, was thus stirring up into fierce passion. His sermon was talked of all over London;
blacker looks than ever were directed at the aliens, stones and dirt were thrown at them, and
even Ambrose, as he walked along the street, was reviled as the Dutchkin's knave.  The insults
became each day more daring and outrageous.  George Bates and a skinner's apprentice named
Studley were caught in the act of tripping up a portly old Flanderkin and forthwith sent to
Newgate, and there were other arrests, which did but inflame the smouldering rage of the mob.
Some of the wealthier foreigners, taking warning by the signs of danger, left the City, for
there could be no doubt that the whole of London and the suburbs were in a combustible condition
of discontent, needing only a spark to set it alight.

It was just about this time that a disreputable clerk--a lewd priest, as Hall calls him--a
hanger-on of the house of Howard, was guilty of an insult to a citizen's wife as she was quietly
walking home through the Cheap.  Her husband and brother, who were nearer at hand than he guessed,
avenged the outrage with such good wills that this disgrace to the priesthood was left dead
on the ground.  When such things happened, and discourses like Beale's were heard, it was not
surprising that Ambrose's faith in the clergy as guides received severe shocks.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

MAY EVE.

