Nature makes the locust with an appetite for crops; man would have made
him with an appetite for sand.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

We spent part of an afternoon and a night at sea, and reached Bluff, in New Zealand, early
in the morning.  Bluff is at the bottom of the middle island, and is away down south, nearly
forty-seven degrees below the equator.  It lies as far south of the line as Quebec lies north
of it, and the climates of the two should be alike; but for some reason or other it has not
been so arranged.  Quebec is hot in the summer and cold in the winter, but Bluff's climate
is less intense; the cold weather is not very cold, the hot weather is not very hot; and the
difference between the hottest month and the coldest is but 17 degrees Fahrenheit.

In New Zealand the rabbit plague began at Bluff.  The man who introduced the rabbit there was
banqueted and lauded; but they would hang him, now, if they could get him. In England the natural
enemy of the rabbit is detested and persecuted; in the Bluff region the natural enemy of the
rabbit is honored, and his person is sacred.  The rabbit's natural enemy in England is the
poacher, in Bluff its natural enemy is the stoat, the weasel, the ferret, the cat, and the
mongoose.  In England any person below the Heir who is caught with a rabbit in his possession
must satisfactorily explain how it got there, or he will suffer fine and imprisonment, together
with extinction of his peerage; in Bluff, the cat found with a rabbit in its possession does
not have to explain--everybody looks the other way; the person caught noticing would suffer
fine and imprisonment, with extinction of peerage.  This is a sure way to undermine the moral
fabric of a cat.  Thirty years from now there will not be a moral cat in New Zealand.  Some
think there is none there now. In England the poacher is watched, tracked, hunted--he dare
not show his face; in Bluff the cat, the weasel, the stoat, and the mongoose go up and down,
whither they will, unmolested.  By a law of the legislature, posted where all may read, it
is decreed that any person found in possession of one of these creatures (dead) must satisfactorily
explain the circumstances or pay a fine of not less than L5, nor more than L20.  The revenue
from this source is not large.  Persons who want to pay a hundred dollars for a dead cat are
getting rarer and rarer every day.  This is bad, for the revenue was to go to the endowment
of a University.  All governments are more or less short-sighted: in England they fine the
poacher, whereas he ought to be banished to New Zealand.  New Zealand would pay his way, and
give him wages.

It was from Bluff that we ought to have cut across to the west coast and visited the New Zealand
Switzerland, a land of superb scenery, made up of snowy grandeurs, anal mighty glaciers, and
beautiful lakes; and over there, also, are the wonderful rivals of the Norwegian and Alaskan
fiords; and for neighbor, a waterfall of 1,900 feet; but we were obliged to postpone the trip
to some later and indefinite time.

November 6.  A lovely summer morning; brilliant blue sky.  A few miles out from Invercargill,
passed through vast level green expanses snowed over with sheep.  Fine to see.  The green,
deep and very vivid sometimes; at other times less so, but delicate and lovely.  A passenger
reminds me that I am in "the England of the Far South."

Dunedin, same date.  The town justifies Michael Davitt's praises. The people are Scotch.  They
stopped here on their way from home to heaven-thinking they had arrived.  The population is
stated at 40,000, by Malcolm Ross, journalist; stated by an M. P. at 60,000.  A journalist
cannot lie.

To the residence of Dr. Hockin.  He has a fine collection of books relating to New Zealand;
and his house is a museum of Maori art and antiquities.  He has pictures and prints in color
of many native chiefs of the past--some of them of note in history.  There is nothing of the
savage in the faces; nothing could be finer than these men's features, nothing more intellectual
than these faces, nothing more masculine, nothing nobler than their aspect.  The aboriginals
of Australia and Tasmania looked the savage, but these chiefs looked like Roman patricians.
The tattooing in these portraits ought to suggest the savage, of course, but it does not. 
The designs are so flowing and graceful and beautiful that they are a most satisfactory decoration.
It takes but fifteen minutes to get reconciled to the tattooing, and but fifteen more to perceive
that it is just the thing.  After that, the undecorated European face is unpleasant and ignoble.

Dr. Hockiu gave us a ghastly curiosity--a lignified caterpillar with a plant growing out of
the back of its neck--a plant with a slender stem 4 inches high.  It happened not by accident,
but by design--Nature's design.  This caterpillar was in the act of loyally carrying out a
law inflicted upon him by Nature--a law purposely inflicted upon him to get him into trouble--a
law which was a trap; in pursuance of this law he made the proper preparations for turning
himself into a night-moth; that is to say, he dug a little trench, a little grave, and then
stretched himself out in it on his stomach and partially buried himself--then Nature was ready
for him.  She blew the spores of a peculiar fungus through the air with a purpose.  Some of
them fell into a crease in the back of the caterpillar's neck, and began to sprout and grow--for
there was soil there--he had not washed his neck.  The roots forced themselves down into the
worm's person, and rearward along through its body, sucking up the creature's juices for sap;
the worm slowly died, and turned to wood.  And here he was now, a wooden caterpillar, with
every detail of his former physique delicately and exactly preserved and perpetuated, and with
that stem standing up out of him for his monument--monument commemorative of his own loyalty
and of Nature's unfair return for it.

Nature is always acting like that.  Mrs. X. said (of course) that the caterpillar was not conscious
and didn't suffer.  She should have known better.  No caterpillar can deceive Nature.  If this
one couldn't suffer, Nature would have known it and would have hunted up another caterpillar.
Not that she would have let this one go, merely because it was defective. No.  She would have
waited and let him turn into a night-moth; and then fried him in the candle.

Nature cakes a fish's eyes over with parasites, so that it shan't be able to avoid its enemies
or find its food.  She sends parasites into a star-fish's system, which clog up its prongs
and swell them and make them so uncomfortable that the poor creature delivers itself from the
prong to ease its misery; and presently it has to part with another prong for the sake of comfort,
and finally with a third.  If it re-grows the prongs, the parasite returns and the same thing
is repeated.  And finally, when the ability to reproduce prongs is lost through age, that poor
old star-fish can't get around any more, and so it dies of starvation.

In Australia is prevalent a horrible disease due to an "unperfected tapeworm."  Unperfected--that
is what they call it, I do not know why, for it transacts business just as well as if it were
finished and frescoed and gilded, and all that.

November 9.  To the museum and public picture gallery with the president of the Society of
Artists.  Some fine pictures there, lent by the S. of A. several of them they bought, the others
came to them by gift.  Next, to the gallery of the S. of A.--annual exhibition--just opened.
Fine. Think of a town like this having two such collections as this, and a Society of Artists.
It is so all over Australasia.  If it were a monarchy one might understand it.  I mean an absolute
monarchy, where it isn't necessary to vote money, but take it.  Then art flourishes.  But these
colonies are republics--republics with a wide suffrage; voters of both sexes, this one of New
Zealand.  In republics, neither the government nor the rich private citizen is much given to
propagating art. All over Australasia pictures by famous European artists are bought for the
public galleries by the State and by societies of citizens.  Living citizens--not dead ones.
They rob themselves to give, not their heirs. This S. of A. here owns its buildings built it
by subscription.

CHAPTER XXXI.

The spirit of wrath--not the words--is the sin; and the spirit of wrath
is cursing.  We begin to swear before we can talk.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

November 11.  On the road.  This train-express goes twenty and one-half miles an hour, schedule
time; but it is fast enough, the outlook upon sea and land is so interesting, and the cars
so comfortable.  They are not English, and not American; they are the Swiss combination of
the two. A narrow and railed porch along the side, where a person can walk up and down.  A
lavatory in each car.  This is progress; this is nineteenth-century spirit. In New Zealand,
these fast expresses run twice a week. It is well to know this if you want to be a bird and
fly through the country at a 20-mile gait; otherwise you may start on one of the five wrong
days, and then you will get a train that can't overtake its own shadow.

By contrast, these pleasant cars call to mind the branch-road cars at Maryborough, Australia,
and the passengers' talk about the branch-road and the hotel.

Somewhere on the road to Maryborough I changed for a while to a smoking-carriage.  There were
two gentlemen there; both riding backward, one at each end of the compartment.  They were acquaintances
of each other.  I sat down facing the one that sat at the starboard window.  He had a good
face, and a friendly look, and I judged from his dress that he was a dissenting minister. 
He was along toward fifty.  Of his own motion he struck a match, and shaded it with his hand
for me to light my cigar. I take the rest from my diary:

In order to start conversation I asked him something about Maryborough. He said, in a most
pleasant--even musical voice, but with quiet and cultured decision:

"It's a charming town, with a hell of a hotel."

I was astonished.  It seemed so odd to hear a minister swear out loud. He went placidly on:

"It's the worst hotel in Australia.  Well, one may go further, and say in Australasia."

"Bad beds?"

"No--none at all.  Just sand-bags."

"The pillows, too?"

"Yes, the pillows, too.  Just sand.  And not a good quality of sand.  It packs too hard, and
has never been screened.  There is too much gravel in it.  It is like sleeping on nuts."

"Isn't there any good sand?"

"Plenty of it.  There is as good bed-sand in this region as the world can furnish.  Aerated
sand--and loose; but they won't buy it.  They want something that will pack solid, and petrify."

"How are the rooms?"

"Eight feet square; and a sheet of iced oil-cloth to step on in the morning when you get out
of the sand-quarry."

"As to lights?"

"Coal-oil lamp."

"A good one?"

"No.  It's the kind that sheds a gloom."

"I like a lamp that burns all night."

"This one won't.  You must blow it out early."

"That is bad.  One might want it again in the night.  Can't find it in the dark."

"There's no trouble; you can find it by the stench."

"Wardrobe?"

"Two nails on the door to hang seven suits of clothes on if you've got them."

"Bells?"

"There aren't any."

"What do you do when you want service?"

"Shout.  But it won't fetch anybody."

"Suppose you want the chambermaid to empty the slopjar?"

"There isn't any slop-jar.  The hotels don't keep them.  That is, outside of Sydney and Melbourne."

"Yes, I knew that.  I was only talking.  It's the oddest thing in Australia.  Another thing:
I've got to get up in the dark, in the morning, to take the 5 o'clock train.  Now if the boots----"

"There isn't any."

"Well, the porter."

"There isn't any."

"But who will call me?"

"Nobody.  You'll call yourself.  And you'll light yourself, too. There'll not be a light burning
in the halls or anywhere.  And if you don't carry a light, you'll break your neck."

"But who will help me down with my baggage?"

"Nobody.  However, I will tell you what to do.  In Maryborough there's an American who has
lived there half a lifetime; a fine man, and prosperous and popular.  He will be on the lookout
for you; you won't have any trouble.  Sleep in peace; he will rout you out, and you will make
your train.  Where is your manager?"

"I left him at Ballarat, studying the language.  And besides, he had to go to Melbourne and
get us ready for New Zealand.  I've not tried to pilot myself before, and it doesn't look easy."

"Easy!  You've selected the very most difficult piece of railroad in Australia for your experiment.
There are twelve miles of this road which no man without good executive ability can ever hope--tell
me, have you good executive ability? first-rate executive ability?"

"I--well, I think so, but----"

"That settles it.  The tone of----oh, you wouldn't ever make it in the world.  However, that
American will point you right, and you'll go. You've got tickets?"

"Yes--round trip; all the way to Sydney."

"Ah, there it is, you see!  You are going in the 5 o'clock by Castlemaine--twelve miles--instead
of the 7.15 by Ballarat--in order to save two hours of fooling along the road.  Now then, don't
interrupt--let me have the floor.  You're going to save the government a deal of hauling, but
that's nothing; your ticket is by Ballarat, and it isn't good over that twelve miles, and so----"

"But why should the government care which way I go?"

"Goodness knows!  Ask of the winds that far away with fragments strewed the sea, as the boy
that stood on the burning deck used to say.  The government chooses to do its railway business
in its own way, and it doesn't know as much about it as the French.  In the beginning they
tried idiots; then they imported the French--which was going backwards, you see; now it runs
the roads itself--which is going backwards again, you see.  Why, do you know, in order to curry
favor with the voters, the government puts down a road wherever anybody wants it--anybody that
owns two sheep and a dog; and by consequence we've got, in the colony of Victoria, 800 railway
stations, and the business done at eighty of them doesn't foot up twenty shillings a week."

"Five dollars?  Oh, come!"

"It's true.  It's the absolute truth."

"Why, there are three or four men on wages at every station."

"I know it.  And the station-business doesn't pay for the sheep-dip to sanctify their coffee
with.  It's just as I say.  And accommodating? Why, if you shake a rag the train will stop
in the midst of the wilderness to pick you up.  All that kind of politics costs, you see. And
then, besides, any town that has a good many votes and wants a fine station, gets it.  Don't
you overlook that Maryborough station, if you take an interest in governmental curiosities.
Why, you can put the whole population of Maryborough into it, and give them a sofa apiece,
and have room for more.  You haven't fifteen stations in America that are as big, and you probably
haven't five that are half as fine.  Why, it's perfectly elegant.  And the clock!  Everybody
will show you the clock. There isn't a station in Europe that's got such a clock.  It doesn't
strike--and that's one mercy.  It hasn't any bell; and as you'll have cause to remember, if
you keep your reason, all Australia is simply bedamned with bells.  Well, when they build eighty
stations at a loss and a lot of palace-stations and clocks like Maryborough's at another loss,
the government has got to economize somewhere hasn't it?  Very well look at the rolling stock.
That's where they save the money.  Why, that train from Maryborough will consist of eighteen
freight-cars and two passenger-kennels; cheap, poor, shabby, slovenly; no drinking water, no
sanitary arrangements, every imaginable inconvenience; and slow?--oh, the gait of cold molasses;
no air-brake, no springs, and they'll jolt your head off every time they start or stop.  That's
where they make their little economies, you see.  They spend tons of money to house you palatially
while you wait fifteen minutes for a train, then degrade you to six hours' convict-transportation
to get the foolish outlay back. What a rational man really needs is discomfort while he's waiting,
then his journey in a nice train would be a grateful change.  But no, that would be common
sense--and out of place in a government.  And then, besides, they save in that other little
detail, you know--repudiate their own tickets, and collect a poor little illegitimate extra
shilling out of you for that twelve miles, and----"

"Well, in any case----"

"Wait--there's more.  Leave that American out of the account and see what would happen.  There's
nobody on hand to examine your ticket when you arrive.  But the conductor will come and examine
it when the train is ready to start.  It is too late to buy your extra ticket now; the train
can't wait, and won't.  You must climb out."

"But can't I pay the conductor?"

"No, he is not authorized to receive the money, and he won't.  You must climb out.  There's
no other way.  I tell you, the railway management is about the only thoroughly European thing
here--continentally European I mean, not English.  It's the continental business in perfection;
down fine.  Oh, yes, even to the peanut-commerce of weighing baggage."

The train slowed up at his place.  As he stepped out he said:

"Yes, you'll like Maryborough.  Plenty of intelligence there.  It's a charming place--with
a hell of a hotel."

Then he was gone.  I turned to the other gentleman:

"Is your friend in the ministry?"

"No--studying for it."

CHAPTER XXXII.

The man with a new idea is a Crank until the idea succeeds.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

It was Junior England all the way to Christchurch--in fact, just a garden.  And Christchurch
is an English town, with an English-park annex, and a winding English brook just like the Avon--and
named the Avon; but from a man, not from Shakespeare's river.  Its grassy banks are bordered
by the stateliest and most impressive weeping willows to be found in the world, I suppose.
They continue the line of a great ancestor; they were grown from sprouts of the willow that
sheltered Napoleon's grave in St. Helena.  It is a settled old community, with all the serenities,
the graces, the conveniences, and the comforts of the ideal home-life.  If it had an established
Church and social inequality it would be England over again with hardly a lack.

