 So
said the lady, getting up, taken from internal emotion, for cutting.

Prosper Alpanus accompanied her to the Gattertor, while all the wonderful
voices of the forest on sounded the sweetest way.

stood outside the
gate, instead of Miss cars with unicorns crystal-covered shell the
doctor behind the spread of the beetle's shiny gold wings.

On the box sat holding the silver pheasant and kuckte, the golden reins in its bill, the lady with
wise eyes.

In the happiest time of their most glorious Feenlebens feels the pin
lady added, as The car, beautiful sounding, rustled through the fragrant
forest.

Balthasar, who was hiding in the village of high-Jakob got home from the Referendarius Pulcher
Kerepes from a letter of content: "Our affairs, best friend Balthasar, go from bad to worse and
worse. Our enemy, the hideous cinnabar, Minister of Foreign Affairs and has become the great
Order of the gruengefleckten Tigers obtained with twenty buttons. He has risen to become the favorite
of princes and sets anything by what he wants. Professor Mosch Terpin is quite beside himself,
he puffs up in the stupid pride. By his future son-mediation, he has the post of Director General
all natural Affairs in the State received a job to him a lot of money and gives a lot of other emoluments.
As a named general censored and revised he solar and lunar eclipses, and weather in the prophecies
in the state allowed Calendars explored and in particular the nature of the residence and the area.
 It was felt by everybody in either party that
it would be wiser to nominate a Western man, and, the first having done so, the second, as
all knew it must, now followed the good example.

Moreover, both conventions had nominated "dark horses," but the second nominee was the "darker"
of the two. James Madison Grayson, affectionately called Jimmy Grayson by his neighbors and
admirers, was quite young, without a gray hair in his head, tall, powerfully built, smooth-shaven,
and with honest eyes that gazed straight into yours. He was known as a brave man, with fine
oratorical powers and a winning personality, but he had come to the convention merely as a
delegate, and without any thought of securing the nomination for himself. Not a single vote
had been instructed for him, but in that lay his opportunity. All the conspicuous candidates
were weak; good men in themselves, a solid political objection could be raised against every
one of them, and for a while the voting was scattered and desultory. Then Grayson began to
attract attention; as a delegate he had spoken two or three times, always briefly, but with
grace and to the point, and the people were glad both to see him and to hear him.

At last a far-sighted old man from the same state knew that the moment had come when the convention,
staggering about in the dark, could be led easily along any road that seemed the path of light.
He mentioned the name of Grayson, putting it forward mildly as a suggestion that he would withdraw
at the first opposition, but his very mildness warded off attack. Received rather lightly at
first, the suggestion soon made a strong appeal to the delegates. Nothing could be urged against
Grayson; he was quite young, it was true, but youth was needed to make a great campaign--the
odds were heavily in favor of the other party. Nor were there lacking those who, expecting
defeat, said that a young man could bear it better than an old one, and a beating now might
train him for a victory four years hence.

Grayson himself was surprised when he heard the report, nor could he ever be convinced that
he would be nominated; he regarded the whole thing as absurd, a few votes, no more, might be
cast for him, but, as was fit and decent, he withdrew from the hall. All those whose names
were before the convention were expected to remain at home or elsewhere in the city, and Jimmy
Grayson and his wife stayed quietly in their rooms at the hotel.

Harley had believed this evening that the nomination of Grayson was at hand. It was an intuitive
sense, a sort of premonition that the battalions were closing in for the final conflict, and
he did not doubt the result. He had just returned from a war on the other side of the world,
where he had been present as the correspondent of a great New York journal on many battle-fields,
and he often noticed this strained, breathless feeling that the moment had come, just before
the combat was joined. Now this convention-hall was none the less a battle-field though the
weapons were ballots, not bullets, and Harley believed in his intuition. At midnight the flood-tide
swept in, bearing Grayson on its crest, and, when they saw that he was the man, everybody flocked
to him, making the nomination unanimous by a rising vote.

Harley now stood a moment at the door, listening to the cheers as they swelled again, then
he stepped out and ran swiftly down the street. A fat policeman, taking him for a fleeing pickpocket,
shouted to him to stop, but he flitted by and was gone.

It was only two or three blocks to the hotel, where Mr. Grayson sat quietly in his room, and
Harley was running swiftly, but in the minute or two that elapsed much passed through his mind.
After his long stay abroad he had returned with a renewed sense, not alone of the power and
might of his own country, but also of its goodness; it was here, and here alone, that all careers
were open to all; nowhere else in the world could a relatively obscure young lawyer have been
put forward, and peacefully, too, for the headship of ninety million people. It was this thought
that thrilled him, and it was why he wished to be the first who should tell the young lawyer
of it. He had made the acquaintance of Jimmy Grayson the day before; the two had talked for
a while about public questions, and each had felt that it was the beginning of a friendship,
so he had no hesitation now in making himself an unannounced herald.

He ran into the hotel, darted up the stairway--Jimmy Grayson's rooms were on the first floor--and
knocked at the door of the nominee. A light shone from the transom, and he heard a quick, strong
step approaching. Then the door was thrown open by Mr. Grayson himself, and Mrs. Grayson, who
stood in the centre of the room, looked with inquiry at the correspondent.

"Why, Mr. Harley, I'm glad to see you," said Mr. Grayson, with a welcoming tone in his voice.
"Come in, but I warn you that you cannot interview me any further I'm not worth it; I've told
you all I know."

Harley said nothing, but stepped into the room, closing the door behind him. He saw that they
yet knew nothing--there had been no messenger, no telephone call, and the news was his to tell.
He bowed to Mrs. Grayson, and then he felt a moment of embarrassment, but his long experience
and natural poise came quickly to his aid.

"I do want to interview you, Mr. Grayson," he said, quietly; "and it is upon a subject to which
we did not allude in our former talk."

Mr. Grayson glanced at his wife, and her look, replying to his, indicated the same puzzling
state. Both knew that the chief correspondent of one of the greatest journals in the world
would not leave a Presidential convention in the hour of birth to secure an irrelevant interview.

"If I can serve you, Mr. Harley, I shall be glad to do so," said Jimmy Grayson, somewhat dryly;
"but I really do not see how I can."

"I am quite sure that you can," said Harley, with emphasis.

He listened a moment, but he did not hear any step in the hall nor the jingling of any telephone
bell. Both Mr. and Mrs. Grayson waited expectantly, curious to see what he had in mind.

"If you were to be nominated for the Presidency, I should like to tell the Gazette what your
programme would be--that is, what sort of a campaign you would conduct," said Harley, deliberately. He was dressed entirely in German, and the suit he was all over Reasonably
well, especially since he can curl his hair nice and combed the small Stutzbaertchen well had.

The heart quivered with delight the Balthasar, as opposed to Mosch Terpin Candida him home, all in
the costume of the old German Virgin, friendly, gracious in word and in view, all Creatures, like
usual, she always visible. "My loveliest lady!" sighed Balthasar from the innermost to as Candida,
Candida, the sweet itself, a cup of steaming tea to him offered. Candida but looked at him with
shining eyes and said, "This is rum and maraschino, Biscuits, pumpernickel, dear Balthasar, but only
you access to compliant to Your discretion, "but instead to look to rum and maraschino, biscuits
or pumpernickel or no access was the enthusiastic Balthasar eyes full of painful sorrow of the
most intimate Love not turn away from the lovely maiden, and struggled for words to express the heart
and soul should, he felt just. Since it took but the professor of aesthetics, a big strong tree Man with
huge fist from behind, spun him around, he more tea water on the floor buried, just as proper, and cried
in a thundering voice: "Best Lukas Cranach, Do not drink the vile water, spoiling the German
stomach total - there in the other rooms, our brave Mosch a battery of the most beautiful
bottles of fine Rhine wine planted, which we will now have to play "- he dragged the unhappy
youth continued.

But from the next room they came to meet the Professor Mosch Terpin,
a very small, strange little man by the hand and shouting, "Here,
ladies and gentlemen, put, I give you a highly gifted with the rarest
properties Juengling before, where it is not difficult will fall to
earn your goodwill, your respect.

It is the young gentleman cinnabar, the first came yesterday to our university and intends
to study the rights "- Fabian Balthasar and recognized at first glance, the strange little guy
who at the gate was blown against them and the horses plunged.

"Shall I," Fabian said softly to Balthasar, "should I still challenge the Little Mandrake on blowpipe
or Schusterpfriem? On the other weapons but I can not operate against this formidable opponent.
"

"Shame on you," said Balthasar, "Shame on you, that you mock the neglected man which, as you can
hear, has the rare qualities and replaced as by the spiritual value,
what the nature of his physical attributes failed.

"Then he turned to the small and said: "I hope not, sir cinnabar that your case from his horse
yesterday about bad have had consequences be? "cinnabar rose but by a small stick, which he in the
hand carried back under propped on the foot peaks in the height, so that it corresponds to
Balthasar almost to the belt, presented the head threw in the neck, looked wild with sparkling Eyes
up and spoke in strange schnurrendem bass tone, "I do not know what to do of which you speak,
sir! fall from a horse? - I fell off the horse? - You know probably not, that I am the best rider
that can give it, that I never dated Horse fall that I joined in as volunteers under the cuirassiers
the campaign and officers commons and gave lessons in riding on the ring! - Hm hm - I from
- from a horse fall Horses fall "- He wanted to turn around quickly, the floor, on which he
relied, but slipped, and the little staggered over and over, the Balthasar's feet. Balthasar
reached down to the Kleiner, aufzuhelfen him, and unwittingly touched his head. Since the boy uttered
a piercing scream that echoed throughout the hall and the Quests started up frightened out
of their seats. They surrounded the Balthasar, and asked confused why he cried because for heaven's
sake, so horrible. "Do not take it amiss, good lord Balthazar, "said the Professor Mosch Terpin,"
but that was a bit strange Fun. Probably because they wanted us to believe it kick anyone
here a ! Cat's tail "" cat - the cat away, "said a lady and weak nerves fell into a swoon,
and with the cry of "cat - cat" - ran a couple of old gentlemen, suffering from the same idiosyncrasy,
out the door.

Candida, which poured out her whole Riechflaeschchen on the fainting lady spoke quietly to
Balthasar, "But what you also sent for mischief with your ugly piercing Miau, dear Balthasar!
"

This did not even know what hit him. Glowing red across the face with indignation and shame,
He could bring out a word, not to say that yes the little man cinnabar and he was, the gemauzt
so horrible.

The Professor Mosch Terpin saw the young man's terrible embarrassment. He approached him in
a friendly and said, "Well, now, dear Balthasar, are you still quietly
I have it all. noticed.

Stooping to the ground, jumping on all fours, you received the ill-treated grim hangover after wonderfully.
I love otherwise very similar natural history games, but here in the literary tea "-" But,
"blurted out Balthasar," but, most excellent Lord Professor, I was not. "-" All right - all
right, "he was the professor in the speech. Candida joined them. "Comfort me," the professor
said to the latter, "but the consoling me Balthasar good, which is completely enter all the
mischief over what had happened. "

The good-natured Candida did the poor Balthasar, the confused look
with niedergesenktem stood before her, very sorry.

She held out her hand and whispered with a gracious smile: "There are also quite funny people
who are afraid of cats so horrible."

Balthasar pressuring Candida's hand with fervor to her lips. Candida let the soulful Look in
her eyes of heaven rest upon him. He was delighted in the highest heaven, and thought not to
cinnabar and cats screaming. - The tumult was over, made the peace again. At the tea table sat the
weak-nerved lady and enjoyed several biscuits, which they dipped in rum, assuring the like to
the refreshment of mind threatened hostile power, and the sudden terror follow longingly hope!
-

The two old men out there that really a volatile male between the
legs run, went back and looked calm, like several others, the table.

Balthasar, Fabian, the professor of aesthetics, several young people sat down to women. Mr. cinnabar
had however herangerueckt a foot bank and was on the same means increased
the sofa, where he is now in the middle of two women sat proud and
sparkling eyes to be tossed.

Balthasar believed that come the right moment, with his poem about the love of Purple Rose Nightingale
to back out. He expressed therefore associated with the bashful, as it is for young poets
in the tradition that he might, not fear it, and disgust to arouse
boredom, he could kind of indulgence of the Assembly Honored hope
it would dare to read a poem, the latest product of his muse.

Since women already sufficiently discussed about all what happened in New in town the girls
the last ball at the President talked out properly, and even over the normal form of the latest
Huete been agreed since the men under two hours in could expect more
food and watering, it was asked Balthasar unanimously, the The wonderful
benefit society so do not deny.

Balthasar drew the neatly written manuscript out and read.

His own work, which in fact came from truly Dichtergemuet with full force with lots of activity hervorgestroemt,
thrilled him more and more.

His talk, more passionate rising betrayed the inner glow of a loving heart. He trembled with delight
when sighs - Oh, some quiet - the women, some men cry of: "Wonderful - excellent - divine!"
it certain that his poem all enraptured.

At last he had finished. Since they all shouted: "What a poem - what thoughts - what imagination!
- What beautiful verses - which sounds good - thanks - thanks to you, my good lord Cinnabar, for the divine
pleasure "-

"What, how?" cried Balthasar, but no one paid him any attention, but crashed on cinnabar, the puffed
up on the sofa like a small turkey, and snoring with anti-voice: "Please very pretty - very
pretty please - have to take so be content! - Is a little thing that I just last night to
write down all speed "- But the professor of aesthetics shouted:" excellent - Godly cinnabar!
Bosom friend, except me, you're the first poet, there is now on earth! - Come to my heart, beautiful
soul "- He broke the little ones on the couch in the air and hugged and kissed him. Cinnabar
behaved very unruly here. He worked with the little feet on the professor's big belly around
and squawks, "Let me go - Let me go - it hurts me - hurt - hurt me scratch 'your eyes out -
I'll bite' you the nose in two! "-" No, "said the professor, as he sat the child on the Sofa, "no,
kind friend, not the exaggerated modesty!" - Mosch Terpin was now
also approached from the table, took the vermilion hands, pressed
it and spoke very seriously: "Well, young man - not too much, no,
not enough people spoke to me of the high genius that you inspired.

"" Who is it, "cried again, the professor of aesthetics in full of enthusiasm, "who is it of
you young women, the beautiful vermilion his poem, the intimate feeling of the purest love pronounce
worth a kiss? "

There stood on Candida, drew near to full glow on the cheeks, the boy knelt down, and kissed him
on the foul mouth with blue lips. "Yes," cried Balthasar now, as the madness suddenly recognized,
"yes, cinnabar - Cinnabar Divine, you have deep meaning made the nightingale and the Purple Rose,
You be the magnificent reward you get! "-

And with that he tore the Fabian into the next room and said, "Do me a favor and look quite fast
to me and then tell me honestly if I am the student or Balthasar not sure if you really Fabian,
whether we're home in Mosch Terpin, whether we are in dreams - Whether we are mad - I pluck
the nose or shakers myself together so I just wake up from this nightmare cursed! "-

"How like," said Fabian, "as you like because you behave just as great out of pure light Jealousy,
because Candida kissed the little ones. Admit you have but saying that the poem which the boy
read, in fact, was excellent. "-" Fabian, "Balthasar cried with the Expression of the deepest astonishment,
"what are you talking about?" "Well," said Fabian, "now yes, the poem of the little ones was excellent,
and indulged in 'I gave him Candida's kiss. - In general appears behind the strange little man to
put all sorts of things that is worth more than a nice Shape.

But what also concerns itself his character, he comes to me now nothing less than so outrageous
steps at first.

While reading the poem embellishes the inner excitement Gesichtszuege his, so he often seemed
to be a graceful well-grown youth, However, he hardly protruded over
the table.

Enter your useless jealousy, become friends up as a poet with the
poet!

"

"What," cried Balthasar, snarled, "what - even become friends with the cursed changeling? I would like
to strangle with these fists? "

"So," Fabian said, "you seal up because of all reason. But let us in the hall go back, go find something
new, since I hear loud cheers.

"

Balthasar mechanically followed his friend in the hall.

As they entered, the Professor Mosch Terpin stood alone in the middle, the instruments still
in the hand with which he made any physical experiment, rigid amazement
on his face.

The whole party had gathered around the small tin, which, untergestemmt the floor, stood on tiptoe
and took the applause with a proud look, to him from all sides streamed.

They turned back to the professor, who is another very like flying tricks made. No sooner was
it finished than turn all the little surround shouted: "Wonderful - excellent; dear cinnabar
"! -

Finally jumped Mosch Terpin toward the little ones and called ten
times stronger than any other factors: "Wonderful - excellent, dear
tin!"

It was in the company of the young Prince Gregor, who studied at the university. The prince was the
most graceful figure that could only see, and it was his behavior so elegant and casual, that
the high birth, the habit of principal in the moving circles, is clearly expressed.

Greg Fuerst it was, the more of cinnabar and not him as the finest poet, the ablest physicists
praised all masses.

Strangely, the group was that both were standing together.

Against the magnificent landscaped Gregor stood very strange from the tiny little man, with highly stretched
up nose to receive very little on the thin little legs could. All eyes of the women were executed,
but not to the princes, but to the little ones, who, raising himself on tiptoe, again and again
sank, and so up and down like a staggered Cartesian devil.

The Professor Mosch Terpin went to Balthazar, and said, "What do you
say to my schuetzling, to my dear cinnabar?

Much behind the man, and now I look at him so, I suspect perhaps the real explanation, it might
have with him. The preacher, who brought him up and has recommended to me, spoke more about
his descent from very mysterious. View But she only the noble decency to be elegant, easy-going
demeanor. He is certain of princely Blood, maybe even a king's son "- The moment was reported,
the meal was done. Cinnabar stumbled awkwardly towards Candida, took her hand and clumsily led them
to the dining room.

Full fury of the hapless Balthasar ran through the dark night, through storm and wind Rain continued
to return home.

On a great mossy rock in the most isolated forest Balthasar sat and
looked thoughtfully down to the depth at which a continuous stream
roared Felsstuecken still intermediate and dense Overgrown bushes.

Dark clouds were so low and dipped behind the mountains, the Rustle of trees, the waters sounded
like a muffled whimpering, and screaming in between Raptors that rose from the dark thicket
in the vast heavens and nachschwangen the fleeing clouds. -

The Balthasar was when he heard the beautiful voices of the forest in the desolate action of
nature, as he himself would have to be lost in that action, as if his whole being, only the Unverwindlichsten
feeling of the deepest pain. His heart wanted to jump in front of melancholy, and by often
tears trickled from his eyes, it was as looked the spirits of the Forest stream up to him
and stretched up his arms in the snow-white waves, pull him down in the cool ground.

Since floating from a distance through the air so bright cheery and laid Hoernerklang is comforting
to his chest, and the desire awoke in him and with her sweet hope. He looked around, and by
the horns forttoenten, seemed to him the green shade of the forest not so sad, lamenting not so the
noise of the wind, the whisper of the bushes. He came to words.

"No," he exclaimed, jumping up from his seat and with brilliant look into the distance looked,
"no, not yet vanished all hope - it is only too certain that any gloomy mystery, some evil magic
has entered disturbing in my life, but I break this spell, and should I go under it! When I finally
sat down, overcome by the feeling that would burst my breast, the sweet, sweet love of my Candida
confessed, I read felt it not in her looks, I do not at the pressure
of her hand in mine Salvation? - But as soon as the damn little monster
can see is him all the love faces.

To her, the accursed monster, hanging Candida's eyes, and yearning Sighs escape from her breast
when the clumsy boy approached her or even her hand touched. - There must be some mysterious
explanation with him have, and I ought to silly Old wives' tales believe, I would say that the boy
was bewitched and could do it, how to maintains, do to tell people. Is not it great that all
over the abominable, by and neglected little man scoff and laugh and then again, does the little
one in between, hawk him as the wisest, most learned, even the most well made Mr Studiosum, which
is just below us? - What do I say!

I will not even nearly so, is I do not often before, was spared as cinnabar and handsome?
- Only in the presence of Candida The magic has no power over me
is there and remains Mr cinnabar a stupid, disgusting Little Mandrake.
- Yes! - I brace myself against the hostile power, a dark idea rests
deep inside me, something unexpected will give me the gun in his hand
against the evil fiend!

"-

Balthasar sought the way back to Kerepes. continue wandering in a tree swing, he remarked on the
road a small car packed journey from which he someone with a white
cloth friendly waving.

He approached and saw Mr Vincenzo Sbiocca, world famous virtuosos
on the violin, which he for his excellent expressive game over all
masses hochschaetzte and in which he had taken lessons for two years.

"Well," cried Sbiocca, by jumping out of the car, "Well, my dear Balthasar, my dear friend and
student, well, that I here take to be able to take from you fond farewell. "

"What," said Balthasar, "as Mr. Sbiocca, you do not leave yet Kerepes where everything you honors
and respects where not to miss you like? "

"Yes," replied Sbiocca by him all the Wrath of the inner glow in his face was, "Yes, Mr. Balthasar,
I leave a place where the people are all mad, the one big madhouse similar. - You were yesterday,
not in my concert because you have gone about the country, otherwise they would have You can
help me against the raging people I failed. "

"What has happened, a thousand heavens sake, what happened?" called Balthazar.

"I play," continued Sbiocca, "the most difficult concerto by Viotti. It is my pride, my Joy. You
have heard it from me, it has never left you unimpressed. Yesterday
I was I may well say it, quite excellent in a good mood - anima I
mean, cheerful spirit - Spirito alato I mean. No Violin players in
the whole wide world, Viotti himself would have I do not enacted.
When I finished, the applause breaks loose with all the rage - my
furore ' I, as I expected. Violin under his arm, I come forward, thanks
to me politely. - But! what do I see what I need to hear! - All without
notice to me in the least, is pushing After a corner of the room and
shouts: 'Bravo - Bravissimo, divine cinnabar! - What a game - what
position, which expression, which skill '! - I'm going to run, being
pushed by me! - There is a three spans high deformed guy and buzzes
with anti-vote: 'Please, please, pretty much played as it was in my
strength, am of course now the strongest violinist in Europe and the
other known parts of the world. " "A thousand devils, ' I shouted,
"who has played for, me or the earthworm there!" - And when the little
boy always on snoring: 'Please, please, respectfully,' I want to let
go and catch him, across the whole fingering. But as they plunge down
at me and talk mad stuff of envy, jealousy and envy.

II

THE MAID

Harley's ring was not answered at once, and as he stood on the step he glanced back at the
city, which, in the dark, showed only the formless bulk of houses and the cold electric lights
here and there. Then he heard a light step, and the door was thrown open. He handed his card
to the maid, merely saying, "Mr. and Mrs. Grayson," and waited to be shown into the parlor.
But the girl, whose face he could not see, as the hall was dimly lighted, held it in her hand,
looking first at the name and then at him. Harley, feeling a slight impatience, stepped inside
and said:

"I assure you that I am the real owner of it--that is, of the name on the card."

"What proof have you?" she asked, calmly.

Harley had heard recently many phases of the servant-girl question, and this development of
it amused him. She must be one of those ignorant and stubborn foreigners--a Swede or a German.

"Suppose you take the proof for granted and risk it," he said. "Mr. and Mrs. Grayson can quickly
decide for you, and tell you whether I am right."

"They have gone out for a little walk," she said, still standing in the way, "and so many strange
people are coming here now that I don't know whether to show you in or not. Maybe you are a
reporter?"

"Well, and what then?"

"Or worse; perhaps you are a photographer."

"If I am, you can see that I have no camera."

"You might have a little one hidden under your overcoat."

"It is night, and cameras are used in the sunshine."

"We have electric lights."

Harley began to feel provoked. There were limits to perverseness, or should be.

"I am expected to dinner by Mr. and Mrs. Grayson," he said. "Will you kindly cease to keep
me waiting and show me in? I shall not steal any of the furniture."

The maid was annoyingly calm.

"Mr. and Mrs. Grayson have not yet returned from a little walk which they were afraid to undertake
until it grew dark," she said. "But I think I'll risk it and show you in if you will hold up
your hand and swear that you haven't a camera hidden under your overcoat."

Harley's sense of humor came to his aid, and he held up his hand.

"I do solemnly swear," he said.

He tried to see the face of this maid, who showed a perversity that was unequalled in an experience
by no means limited, but she stood in the duskiest part of the dim hall, and he failed. He
knew merely that she was tall and slender, and when she turned to lead the way he heard a faint
sound like the light tinkle of a suppressed laugh. Harley started, and his face flushed with
anger. He had encountered often those who tried to snub him, and usually he had been able to
take care of himself, but to be laughed at by a housemaid was a new thing in his experience,
and he was far from liking it.

She indicated a small parlor with a wave of her hand and said:

"You can go in there and wait. You have promised not to steal the furniture, and, as the room
contains only a piano, a table, and some chairs, all of which are too big to be hidden under
your overcoat, I think that you will keep your promise." 

Miss von Schoen Rose was of great figure, noble and majestic stature somewhat proud, commanding nature.
Your face, you had it right to call beautiful completed, made, especially where as usual in
rigid Ernst hinschaute himself, a strange, almost eerie Impression of what a very special attribute
EXCELLENT strange course between the eyebrows, the right of one does not quite know whether a Stiftsfraeulein
really like on the who foreheads in. It was also often, especially at the time of roses beautiful
cheerful Weather, so much grace and charm in her eyes that everyone in sweet irresistible Magic
felt self-conscious. When I saw the lady for the first and last time to see the pleasure had
they had the prestige to a woman in the highest, most perfect flower of their years at the highest
point of the turning point, and I thought that I fated very lucky, the lady just yet to see on
this peak and to a certain extent, on their wonderful beauty to scare, which can then very soon
would no longer carry. I was in the Error. The oldest people in the village, assured that they had known
the young lady so long as they thought, and that the lady had never been different, not older,
not younger not ugly, not pretty as now. Time seemed not so to have power over them, and even this
could happen many a surprise. But still many others joined them, what everyone, he thought it quite
seriously, as much surprised, and at last from the astonishment into which he caught coming
out, do not have to. For now revealed itself quite clearly in the relationship of the lady with
the flowers, whose names they bore. For not only that no man on earth such a wonderful thousand-
Rosen was able to draw, as they so also sprouted from the worst droughts Dorn, they put into the
ground, those flowers in the highest abundance and splendor out. Then there was it is certain
that on solitary walks in the woods loud conversations led to wonderful Voices that seemed out of the
trees, in the bushes, from the sources and streams to sound. Yes, a young man she had overheard
Jaeger, as she was once in the middle in the thick of woody and strange birds with colorful
shiny feathers that are not in the land of fluttering home, they and caressed and tell funny singing
and chirping in her all sorts of things Merry seemed what she was laughing and being happy. So
it came as well, that Miss Rose Schoen At that time she entered the pen, sometimes the attention
of all people in the area suggested. Their inclusion in the Fraeuleinstift had ordered the prince, and
the Baron Praetextatus by moonlight, owner of the goods in the vicinity of that pin was, where
he presided as acting head, therefore could not object, regardless tormented him the most terrible doubts.
In vain had been his efforts, namely, in Rixner tournament book and other chronicles the Family
locate Rose Green Schoen. He rightly questioned for this reason at the Stiftsfaehigkeit the young
lady who had no family tree exhibit with thirty-two ancestors, and asked them last very contrite,
the bright tears in their eyes, but for heaven's sake is at least, not to mention Rose Green
beauty, but beauty Rose, unless it be in the name still some sense and a possible ancestor. -
She did it to please you. - Perhaps be voiced resentment of the injured Praetextatus against the suspect
in this loosely Fraeulein - that way, and first gave rise to the evil gossip, the ever more and
more in the village spread. To those magical conversations in the forest, which, however,
nothing in the had got all sorts of dubious circumstances namely that went from mouth to mouth
and Fraeulein real nature in no ambiguous light featured. Mother Anne, the mayor Woman claimed boldly
that if the girl strongly out of the window sneeze all require the Milk in the village would
sour. No sooner had this confirmed but, when the Terrible went. Schoolmaster Michel had nibbled
at the Stiftskueche fried potatoes, and was affected by the lady about it was that threatened
him smiling with his finger. There was the boy's mouth remained open, just as If he had a
fried potato burning sit in it forever, and now he had to wear a hat with wide brim above,
because otherwise the poor would have been raining in the mouth. Soon it seemed certain that
the young lady to it knew how to discuss fire and water to round up storm clouds and hail, to braid
Weichselzoepfe etc., and no one doubted the testimony of the shepherd who the midnight hour
with chills and horror would have seen how the young lady to a broom went roaring through the
air before her an enormous stag beetle, between blue flames lit up the horns high! - Now everything
was in turmoil, they wanted the Witch of the body, and the village courts decided nothing less
than the lady from the to bring pen and throwing them in water so that it consists the usual witch
trial. The Baron Praetextatus let everything happen and said, smiling to himself, is "So It simple
people with no ancestors who are not of such good old custom, as the moon. " The young lady,
informed of the threatening mischief, fled to the capital, and Soon after, the Baron Praetextatus
a cabinet was ordered by the princes of the country means which he made known that there would
be no witch, and was told that village courts for the nose as greed to look Schwimmkuenste a
Stiftsfraeuleins, throw in the tower, to let the other farmers and their wives suggest, however,
with sensitive physical punishment think of the lady Rose Schoen not bad. They went to were
afraid to against the threat of punishment and thought well of the young lady now, which for
both, for the village and for the Lady Rose Schoen, had the salutary consequences.

In the Cabinet of the princes they knew very well that the girl from Rose Schoen nobody was different
than the other famous world-famous fairy Rosabelverde. It had the matter following Meaning:

In
the whole wide earth was probably scarcely found elsewhere, a charming country, as the small Principality,
which was the estate of Baron Praetextatus by moonlight, where the Lady of Rose Schoen lived,
in short, which came to pass that all that I command you, dear reader, the wider to tell just
was on the point.

surrounded by high mountains, was like the little country with its green, fragrant woods, with
its flowery meadows, with its rushing streams and funny gurgling fountains, especially as it no towns,
villages and friendly but only occasionally standing alone Palaces
were in it, a wonderfully beautiful garden where the residents as
to their desire modified, free of any oppressive burdens of life.

Everyone knew that Demetrius Fuerst the country's ruling, no one noticed, however, the least
of the government, and all were so very well satisfied. Persons who complete freedom in all its
start, a beautiful Area, a mild climate have loved their stay did not choose more than in the Principality,
and so it happened that among other various excellent Fairies of
the good kind, where warmth and freedom is known about everything
that moved into the area had.

You 'd' it will be attributed, that almost in every village, but especially in the woods very often
went the most pleasant surprise and that everyone, from the delight the joy of this miracle entirely
surrounded, completely believed in the miraculous, and without it To know yourself, for that reason
was a happy, therefore, good citizenship. The good fairies, established in the free choice throughout
Dschinnistan had realized the excellent Demetrius like to put an eternal life. This was however
not in their power. Demetrius died, and his young Paphnutius followed in the government. Paphnutius
had in his lifetime his father's a silent inner nurtured grief about it that people and the state
after his opinion on the way hopelessly neglected, neglected was. He decided to and rule immediately
appointed his valet Andres him once, when he at the inn lie behind the mountains its stock
market can, six ducats borrowed, and thus of great Not had broken, the first minister of the kingdom.
"I want to govern, my friend!" called him Paphnutius to. Andres read in the eyes of his master,
what was going on inside him, threw him to Feet, and said solemnly: "Sire, the great hour has
come - rising shining through you! a realm of mighty chaos up! - Sire! this begs the most
faithful vassal, a thousand voices the poor unfortunate people in the chest and throat! - Sire!
- Insert the clarification! - Paphnutius felt himself thoroughly shaken by the lofty idea
of ​​his minister. He picked it up, tore it stormy to his chest and said, sobbing: "Minister
- Andres - I'm six ducats you owe - even more - my happiness - my kingdom! - O faithful, cleverer
Servant "! -

Paphnutius immediately wanted an edict with large print letters and hitting on all corners , Let
that from that hour was introduced to the clarification and make sure everyone is after that
have. Best Sire! " However, Andres said, "Best Sire, is not it!" - "How are then, my good man?
"said Paphnutius, took his ministers at the lapel and pulled him into it in the Cabinet, which
he completed Tuere.

"Look," began Andres, as he compared to his princes on a small stool space taken, "you see, sir
- the impact of your Fuerstlichen edict because of the Enlightenment would be disturbed perhaps ugly
way if we do not measure so that a rule Linking seems hard, however, the dictates prudence. -
Before we clear up the , Ie, advancing before we cut down the forests to make navigable stream, grow
potatoes, improve the rural schools, planting acacias and poplars,
the youth their morning and evening song two voices singing, creating
roads and let the cowpox to inoculate, it is necessary to all people
from dangerous sentiments, which give no sense of hearing and the
people by sheer nonsense seduce, banish from the state - you have
Arabian Nights read, best prince, for I know that your Highness late
Mr. Papa, where the sky give a gentle rest in the grave may, like
fatal loved books and you, as They still wield hobbies and ate gilded
gingerbread, in the hands was.

Well, then! - From that book you will be totally confused, my lord, well known as Fairies know,
but certainly not suspect that several of these dangerous people love in your own land here very
close to their palace are located, and all sorts Mischief. "" What? - What he says? - Andres!
Minister! - Fairies! - Here in my country "? - So cried Fuerst, by very pale in the chair fell
back. - "Quiet, my dear Sir, "said Andres," stay calm, we can as
soon as we prudently against those enemies the Enlightenment to pull
field.

Yes! - Enemies of the Enlightenment, I call them, because only they are the goodness of your Blessed
Lord Papas abusive, blame, that the State nor love is down in complete darkness. They drive a dangerous
business with the miraculous and are not afraid to spread under the name of poetry a secret
poison, the people quite unable to make service in the Enlightenment. Then they have such intolerable
anti-police Habits that they should already be tolerated in any civilized state why. For example,
in the Frechen entbloeden not, and as you remember walking in the air to go with preloaded pigeons,
swans, and even winged horses. Now I ask But, sir, it is worth the trouble to design a spared
Akzisetarif and introduce, if there are people in the state, which are capable of any careless
citizens throw untaxed goods into the chimney, as they want? - Therefore, my dear Sir, - and
the clarification is announced, continue with the fairies! - Your palaces are surrounded by police,
it deprives them of their dangerous effects, and creates them as vagabonds continued after
their native land, which, as you, sir, know of the Arabian Nights to be the little country Dschinnistan
is. "" To post to this country, Andres? "so asked the prince. "Currently, no," Andres, "replied but
can perhaps be led to Enlightenment journalière up there with benefits. "-" But Andres, "said
the prince continued, "you will not find our case against the fairies hard - is the pampered people
not complain? "-" this too, "said Andres," too, I know a remedy. Not all Fairies, sir, we want
to send away for Dschinnistan, but few in the country , But keep them not only deprive all means
of enlightenment to be hurtful but also appropriate means to apply them into useful members of
the enlightened State re create. Do they not engage in solid marriages, they may under strict supervision
any useful business driving, knitting socks for the army; if there is war, or else Be careful,
my lord, people will very soon to the fairies when they walk in them, do not believe, and this is the
best. So everything etwanige are grumbling by itself - which incidentally affects the utensils
of the fairies, they fall home Fuerstlichen the Treasury, the doves and swans are as delicious Roast
in the royal cuisine delivered with the winged horses but you can also Make attempts to cultivate
them and to form into useful beasts by giving them the Wings and cut them to Stallfuetterung
are we still hope that together with will introduce the Enlightenment. "-

Paphnutius was satisfied with all the proposals of his ministers on the highest, and already Next
day was executed, what was decided.

In every corner because of the edict was emblazoned introducet Enlightenment, and at the same time
The police broke into the palaces of the fairies, took all their property confiscated, and led they
caught on.

Let the heavens know how it happened that the fairy Rosabelverde was the only one of all; the
few hours earlier, before the Enlightenment came, got wind of it and used the time their swans
to set at liberty, their magical Rosenstoecke and other valuables aside to create. They also
knew namely that they had chosen to remain in the country, which they are, though with great
reluctance, said.

In general, it could not yet Paphnutius Andres understand why the fairies after Dschinnistan transported,
were such a joy voiced over exaggerated and once over the other assured them that of all possessions,
they have to leave, not the least located. "In the end," said Paphnutius indignant "at the end
is a much prettier state Dschinnistan like my own, and they laugh at me along with my edict
and my enlightenment, who now first is to thrive right! "-

The geographer should report to the historians of the Empire over the country inconvenient.

Both
agreed that Dschinnistan is a miserable country without culture, education, Learning, acacias
and cowpox, actually not even exist. Insult for But a man or a whole country not respond well,
than not exist.

Paphnutius felt reassured.

When the beautiful flowery grove, where the deserted palace of the fairy Rosabelverde was cut
down was by way of example, and even all Paphnutius Bauerluemmeln
in the next village Cowpox had been inoculated, adapted the fairy
princes in the forest, through the he wanted to go back to the Minister
Andres for his castle.

As they drove it with all sorts of Phrases, but especially with some eerie Kuntstueckchen they
from the police recovered, so cornered that he asked for Heaven's sake, but with a point be content
and therefore increase the single best Fraeuleinstifts throughout the country, where, without to return
to the Aufklaerungsedikt, and want to be able to freely exercise.

The fairy Rosabelverde accepted the offer and came this way in the Fraeuleinstift where they were located,
as already told, the girl from Rose Green beauty, but then, at the urgent Request of the Baron
Praetextatus of moonlight, the girl named Rose Schoen.

In the familiar letters of the world famous scholar Ptolemy Philadelphus to his Rufin friend wrote
when he was on long journeys is the following remarkable passage
include:

"You know, my dear Rufin, that I have nothing in the world,
for example, fear, and fear, as the burning rays of the day, which
consume the powers of my body and my Rigging and weary spirit follows
that all thoughts flow together in a confused picture and I vainly
after that rings even any clear design in my soul .

Enter I maintain, therefore, in this hot season of the day to rest
at night but my Travel continue, and so I was then last night on the
trip.

My driver was lost in the thick darkness from the right, comfortable way and was suddenly get on the highway.
However, I but by the hard collisions that existed here in the car was thrown back and forth
so that my head is full of dents one with walnuts filled bag was
not dissimilar, but I awoke from deep sleep into which I absorbed,
not till I had with a terrible jolt out of the car out on the hard
Soil crashed.

The sun was shining brightly into my face, and through the turnpike,
the densely stood before me, I saw the tall towers of a considerable
town.

The truck driver lamented much, as not only the pole, but also a rear wheel of the car at the
big stone, the middle of the road was broken, and seemed to have little or as much as me . Take
care I held, as befits the wise, my anger back, and called the guy just meek , he was a damned
rascal, he may consider that Ptolemy Philadelphus, the most famous scholars of his time, also
sat on the St-and drawbar hitch and wheel his bike . Let You know, my dear Rufin, the violence
that I exercise over the human heart; and so it happened that the truck driver instantly unwatchable
lament and me with the help of Chausseeinnehmers, before his little house to go to the accident,
the Legs helped.

I had fortunately suffered no particular damage and was able to slowly fortzuwandeln on the
street, while dragging after the carter the broken car difficult. Not far from the gate of the city
I saw in the blue distance, met me now but many people of such fantastical
creatures, and in such strange clothes, I rubbed my eyes, to explore
whether I really awake or whether perhaps a great dream neckhafter
just put myself in a foreign country fabulous. - People that I have
with right for residents the city, from whose gate I saw coming, was
allowed to keep wearing long, very wide pants, the nature of the Japanese
cut of delicious tools, velvet, Manchester, fine cloth or most colorful-embroidered
linen, with lace or pretty cords and ropes plenty busy, covering small
to Kinderroecklein, hardly the abdomen, usually from sun light color,
a few were black.

The unkempt hair hung in a natural Savagery on shoulders and backs down, and on his head sat
a little strange caps. Some had their necks completely denuded after the manner of the modern
Greeks and Turks, but others wore around his neck and chest a little
piece of white canvas, almost a Hemdekragen similar, like you, dear
Rufin, they will have seen the pictures of our ancestors.

Notwithstanding these people seemed to be all very young, but her deep and rough language,
every her movements awkward, and some had a small shadow under the nose as sitting there a Stutzbaertchen.
From the buttocks of small skirts some sticking a long tube out on the great silk tassels dangling.

And in this case the expression fits Miss Morgan. She's the real article--no fuss and frills,
just a daughter of the West, never pretending that she is what she isn't. I heard her speak
of you, Harley, and I don't think she likes you, old man. What have you been doing?"

"I hope I have been behaving as a gentleman should," replied Harley, with some asperity; "and
if I have been unlucky enough to incur her dislike, I shall endure it as best I can."

He spoke in an indifferent tone, as if his endurance would not be severely tested.

"But you are missing a good time," said Hobart. "There are not less than a dozen of us at her
feet, and the Grayson car is full of jollity. I'm going back."

He returned to the car, and Harley was left alone just then, as he wished to be, and with an
effort he dismissed Miss Morgan from his thoughts. Mr. Grayson would speak that night in Chicago,
and an audience of twenty thousand people was assured; this fact and the other one, that it
would be his initial address, making the event of the first importance.

Harley as a correspondent was able not only to chronicle facts, which is no great feat, but
also to tell why, to state the connection between them, and to re-create the atmosphere in
which those facts occurred and which made them possible. He was well aware that a fact was
dependent for its quality--that is, for its degree of good or evil--upon its surrounding atmosphere,
just as a man is influenced by the air that he breathes, and for this reason he wished to send
in advance a despatch about Mr. Grayson and his personality as created by his birth and associations.

He rested his pad on the car-seat and began to write, but Miss Morgan intruded herself in the
first line. This question of character, created by environment, would apply to her as well
as to her uncle; but Harley, angrily refusing to consider it, tore off the sheet of paper and,
throwing it on the floor, began again. The second trial was more successful, and he soon became
absorbed in the effort to describe Mr. Grayson and his remarkable personality, which might
be either deep and complex or of the simplest Western type.

As he wrote Harley became more and more absorbed in his subject, and with the absorption came
spontaneity. He did not know how well he was writing, nor what a vivid picture he was presenting
to the vast Eastern population to whom Jimmy Grayson was as yet but a name. It was a despatch
that became famous, reprinted all over the Union, and quoted as the first description of the
candidate as he really was--that is, of the man. And yet Harley, reading it days later, recognized
in it something that nobody else saw. It was a blend. In every fourth line Sylvia Morgan again,
and despite his efforts, had obtruded herself. He had borrowed something from her to add to
Jimmy Grayson, and he felt that he had been seeking excuses for her manner.

But this fact did not impinge upon Harley now, when he read the despatch preparatory to filing
it at Chicago. He merely felt that he had made an attempt to solve Jimmy Grayson, and in doing
so had fulfilled his duty.

As he folded up the article the loud voice of Hobart hailed him from the other end of the car,
and he beheld that irresponsible man entering with the candidate's niece.

"You see what he has been about all this time, Miss Morgan?" said Hobart. "He has been at work.
Harley, you know, is the only conscientious man among us."

"I have remarked already his devotion to duty," she said, sedately; "but do you think, Mr.
Hobart, we should disturb him now? We do not know that he has finished his task."

Harley flushed. He did not wish to be thought a prig or one who made a pretence of great industry,
and, although Miss Morgan's voice was without expression, he believed that irony lay hidden
somewhere in it.

"You are mistaken," he said; "my work is over, for the time, at least. It was something that
had to be done, or I should not have stolen off here alone."

Then he went back with them to the Grayson car, where a joyous group had gathered. Mr. and
Mrs. Grayson were in the drawing-room, with the door shut, working upon the candidate's speech
at Chicago, Harley surmised, and hence there was no restraint. Of this group the girl from
Idaho was the centre and the sun. She seemed to be on good terms with them all, to the great
surprise of Harley, who had known her longer than they, and who had not been able to get on
with her at all, and he sat rather on the fringe of the throng, saying but little.

Again she inspired him with hostility; she seemed, as before, too bold, too boisterous, too
much the mountain maid, although he could not analyze any particular incident as wrong in itself.
And clearly she had won the liking, even the admiration, of his associates, all of whom were
men of wide experience. Tremaine, the dean of the corps, a ruddy, white-haired old fellow,
who had written despatches from the Russo-Turkish war, which was ancient history to Harley,
warmed visibly to Miss Morgan. "It is always the way with those old gallants," was Harley's
silent comment. But he had never before characterized Tremaine in such a manner.

He was afraid of her sharp tongue, knowing that a woman in such respects is never averse to
taking an unfair advantage of a man; but she paid no heed to him, talking with the others and
passing over him as if he had not been present; and, while this was what he wanted in the first
place, yet, now that he had it, he resented it as something undeserved. But if she would not
speak to him, he, too, would keep silence, a silence which he was convinced had in it a disdainful
quality; hence it was not without a certain comfort and satisfaction.

But Harley was forced to admit that if she was of the bold and boisterous type, she was a favorable
specimen within those unfavorable limits. While she was familiar, in a measure, with these
men, yet she was able to keep them at the proper distance, and no one presumed, in any respect.
She radiated purity and innocence, and it was to ignorance only that Harley now charged her faults.

They reached Chicago the next morning, and at noon Hobart knocked at the door of Harley's room
at the hotel.

"There is some idle time this afternoon," said Hobart, "and Tremaine and I have asked Miss
Morgan to go driving. She has accepted, but it takes four to make a party, and you are the
lucky fourth."

He allowed no protestations, and, after all, Harley, who had been under much strain for some
time, was not averse to an hour or two in the fresh air.

"Miss Morgan has never been in Chicago before," said Hobart, "and it is our duty to show it
to her."

Hobart, who drove, put Miss Morgan upon the seat beside him, and Tremaine and Harley, who sat
behind, occupied what was to some extent the post of disadvantage; but Tremaine, safe in his
years, would not permit the rear seat to be neglected. 

"It's strange enough," said Prosper Alpanus, when the book ended. - "But," continued He continued,
"may perhaps be a vermilion earth spirit. Let's see."

He hopped with rare agility again up the cedar staircase, took another Folios dusted it off neatly, placed
it on the marble table and beat him up, saying: "This work deals with the earth spirits, maybe
we'll catch the cinnabar in this book." The friends in turn saw a lot of clean copper illuminated
panels, the abominable ugly brownish-yellow monsters represented. And as she touched Prosper
Alpanus, they raised squeaky whiny complaints and finally crawled out cumbersome and rolled growling
and groaning on the marble tables around until the doctor they hineindrueckte
again in the book.

Even under these Balthasar had not found the cinnabar.

"Wunderlich Hoechst, strange," said the doctor, and fell into silent reflection.

"The beetle Koenig," he continued, "the king Kaefer it can not be, because that is, I certainly know,
just now busy elsewhere, spinning Marshal not, because spiders Marshal Although ugly, but intelligent
and skillful, also lives by his own labor, without the actions of others to masses. - Wunderlich
- very strange. "-

He was silent again for a few minutes, so that all sorts of wonderful
voices, out soon in each Lutes, now in full swelling chords rang out
all around, clearly heard.

"They are everywhere and constantly quite like music, my dear sir, "said Fabian. Prosper Alpanus
did not seem to pay attention to Fabian he only took the Balthasar in the eye by He first reached
out both arms to him and then moved his fingers against his back,
as sprinkle him with invisible droplets.

Finally took the doctor Balthazar both hands and spoke with a friendly Ernst: "Only the pure consonance
of the psychic principle in the law of dualism favored the operation, I will do now. Follow me! "-

The friends followed the doctor through several rooms, except some strange animals with Reading - Writing
- Drawing - Dancing employees, just contained nothing remarkable, until two hinged doors opened,
and the friends took a heavy curtain, behind Prosper the Alpanus disappeared and she let in
a thick darkness. The curtain swept apart, and the friends were in one, as it seemed, oval
room where a magical Light and dark spreads.

It was looked upon the walls, when the views are loosing in unpredictable green trees and Blumenau
with rippling springs and streams. The mysterious fragrance an unknown aroma floated up and down
and seemed out the sweet tones of the harmonica and carry her.

Prosper Alpanus appeared quite white dressed as a Brahmin and found in the middle of the room
a large round crystal mirror, over which he threw a veil.

"Come," he said dully and solemnly, "You stand before this mirror, Balthasar, judge Share your
thoughts fixed on Candida - do you want with all my heart that she'll show the moment that exists
now in space and time "-

Balthasar did as he was told by Prosper Alpanus stood behind him and with both Hands circles
described him.

It took a few seconds, when a bluish scent floated out of the mirror. Candida, the lovely Candida
appeared in her lovely figure with all the fullness of life! But in addition to it, beside her
sat the hideous vermilion and pressed her hands, she kissed - Candida and embraced the monster
did with one arm and caressed him! - Balthasar wanted According to
cry, but Prosper Alpanus took him hard on both shoulders, and the
cry smothered in the chest.

"Quiet," Prosper said quietly, "calm Balthasar - Take this Pipe and perform tricks with the
little ones, but without moving from the spot. " Balthasar did, and saw to his pleasure, as
the boy writhed, turns over to floating on the earth! - The rage
he sprang forward, as the image faded away in mist and fog, and Prosper
Alpanus tore the great Balthasar back by force, shouting: "Keep one!
- Shattered the magic mirror, we are all lost! - We intend in the
Bright back.

"- The friends left at the doctor's behest the hall and entered a adjoining bright room.

"The sky," said Fabian, a deep breath adding, "Heaven be thanked that we made the haunted room are
out. The sultry air has me almost abgedrueckt the heart, and Then the silly gimmickry to the contrary
in me deep soul. "-

Balthasar was about to answer when Prosper Alpanus occurred. "It is," he said, "it is now certain
that the deformed cinnabar neither a root man is an earth spirit yet, but An ordinary man. But
it is a secret magical power in the game to recognize the I have not yet succeeded, and that
is why I can not help. - Visit Me again soon, Balthasar, then we want to see what next start.
Good-bye! "-

"Well," said Fabian, hinantretend close to the doctor, "so you are a magician, Mr. Doctor, and
with all your magic can not even the little s miserable cinnabar to get rid of? - You know
well that I do along with all its colorful pictures, dolls, magic Mirrors, with all your grotesque
stuff for holding a right foregone charlatan? - The Balthasar, who is in love and make verses
can persuade you to all sorts of stuff but with me you get to bad! - I am an enlightened man
and perfectly statuiere No wonder! "

"Hold," said Prosper Alpanus by laughed stronger and warmer now than
it trust him for all his well-being could "keep the way you want but.
- I'm not exactly equal to a magician, so I command but you neat tricks.

" "From Wieglebs 'magic' for better or else!" - Fabian said. "Now that you see on our Professor
Mosch Terpin your masters and allowed to get with him not compare, because the honest man
suggests again that everything is of course not, and surrounds herself with such mysterious
Economy than you, my sir. - Well, I respectfully recommend you! "

"Ah," said the doctor, "they are not so in anger leave me?"

And he stressed the Fabian quiet down several times on both arms from
shoulder to the wrist, that this was especially felt and he said anxiously,
"What do You, Herr Doctor!

"-" Go, my Lord, "said the doctor," you, Balthasar, I hope to see again very soon. - Soon the Help
there will be found!

"He will get but not tip, my friend," Fabian said in going out to the golden porter and took him
to the Jabot.

The clerk said, but again nothing but "Quirrr" and bit again the Fabian in the finger.

"Beast!" said Fabian and ran away from.

The two frogs did not fail to accompany the two friends politely until the Gattertor, dealing
with a dull thunder opened and closed. - "I know," said Balthasar, as He herwandelte on the
road behind the Fabian, "I do not even know, brother, what you today for a strange rock have been
subjected to such terrible food and such long Scho short sleeves. "

Fabian saw to his astonishment that his short skirt down hinterwaerts grown to the ground, however,
that the otherwise pleasure over the long sleeves were up shrunk down to the elbow.

"A thousand thunders, what's that!" he cried and pulled and tugged at the sleeves and moved her
shoulders. That seemed to help too, but they now went through the city gate, so shrinking the sleeves
up, so grew the rock Eat Scholars, that all pulling and plucking and back regardless The sleeves
soon sat high up on the shoulder, Fabian's award-giving bare arms, that soon nachwaelzte him a
trail, longer and longer to stretching. All the people stood still and laughed heartily, the
street boys ran dozens of cheering and shouting over the long robe, and tore to Fabian, and
how he was missing again roused, no Bits of the train, no! - They had become even longer. And always
great and great was laughter, cheering and shouting, until finally Fabian, half mad, in an
open House crashed. - Immediately the train was gone.

Balthasar had no time to wonder about Fabian's strange enchantment much; because the Referendarius
Pulcher took him, tore him away to a secluded road and said: "How is it possible that you're not
already gone that you can see up here, as the caretaker with the
warrant you have pursued.

"-" What is it, what are you talking? Balthasar asked in astonishment. "So far," said the
Referendarius, "so far ripped up the madness of jealousy out that you hurt the home, hostile break into
Mosch Terpin house that you ueberfielst the tin with his bride, that
you are the misshapen Daeumling beat half to death!

"-" I ask you, "cried Balthasar," The whole day I'm not even in Kerepes, disgraceful lie. "-" O
still, still, "he broke in Pulcher, "Fabian's nonsensical great idea to put a drag dress up saves.
No one respects now yours! - You only remove the disgraceful arrest, the rest we do because
even fight. You may not in your apartment! - Give me the keys, I'll send to you all. - Fort
after high-Jakob Home "!

And it tore out of the Referendarius Balthasar continues through distant streets, through the gate
to the village of high-Jakob's home where the famous scholar Ptolemy Philadelphus his strange
Wrote book on the unknown tribes of the students.

The Professor Mosch Terpin swam in noisy rapture. "Could," he said to himself, "could I come
across as a bit happier than that of the excellent Secret Spezialrat in my House came as Studiosus?
- He married my daughter - he is my son, by him I attain the favor of the noble princes barsanuphe
and climb to the ladder, to my wonderful Zinnoberchen hinaufklimmt.
- It is true that I often incomprehensible even occurs, as the girl
who Candida are so fond totally can in the little ones.

Otherwise, the woman probably sees more on a well presented, as a
special spiritual gifts, and sometimes I look for now to the Spezialmaennlein,
it seems to me as if he was not quite to mention handsome - even -
Bossu - still - St - St - the walls have ears - it is the princes
Favorite, will always rise higher - higher up and is my son!

"-

Mosch Terpin was right, Candida has expressed the most decided tendency for the small and said, were
now and then one that cinnabar strange ghost had not ensnared to
understand that the secret is actually a fatal Spezialrat misshapen
thing but, once of the beautiful hair, making him the nature gifted.

No one smiled, spoke as if Candida, derisive than Referendarius Pulcher.

This put the vermilion after every step, and in this he was faithfully
the Privy Secretary Adrian at precisely the same young man, almost
from the cinnabar charm the office of the Minister would have dislodged,
and the favor of princes only by the excellent Fleck won ball again,
which he handed to him.

The Secret Spezialrat cinnabar lived in a nice house with a garden
even more beautiful, in the middle of which was with a dense shrubbery
surrounding square, where the most glorious Roses are blooming.

They had noticed that always the ninth day cinnabar at dawn quiet got up, so it might be pissed him
without all of the Help there dressed servant, in the garden went down and disappeared into the
bushes that surrounded that place.

Pulcher and Adrian, suspecting some mystery, it ventured in one night, as cinnabar, as they
learn of his valet, had visited that place nine days ago, the garden wall to rise and hide in the
bushes.

No sooner had the morning dawned, they saw, therefore, convert the child, and snorting snuff,
because he, as he walked through the middle of a flower, the tauichten stalks and shrubs around
the nose beat.

When he arrived on the lawn at the roses, a suesstoenendes labor went through the Bushes, and
penetrating, the scent of roses.

A beautiful veiled woman with wings floated down to the shoulders,
sat on the graceful chair that among the Rosenbueschen was adopted,
with quiet words: "Come, my dear child," the little tin and it meshes
with a golden comb his long hair, which hinabwallte his back.

The the boy seemed to do very well because he blinked his little eyes and stretched his legs
long, and growled and grumbled almost like a hangover. This had probably lasted five minutes,
because once again the magical woman ran a finger along the little ones the apex, Pulcher and
Adrian and a narrow, fire-colored stripe will beheld on his head Cinnabar. Now, the woman said:
"Farewell, my sweet child - Be smart, be wise, as you can, "The Little said:" Good-bye, dearie, I'm
smart enough, you need that for me not so often to repeat. "-

The woman rose slowly and disappeared into the air.

Pulcher and Adrian were paralyzed with amazement. But when it wanted to proceed cinnabar, jumped out
of Referendarius and shouted, "Good morning, Mr. Secret Spezialrat egg! beautiful as you can
tweak it! "cinnabar looked around and wanted when he Referendarius
saw them run fast.

Clumsy and weak on the legs, But as he was, he tripped and fell into
the tall grass that the stalks, which closed over him, and he was
in Taubade.

Pulcher jumped up and helped him to his feet, but snarled cinnabar at him: "Lord, how do you
come here in my garden shears you to hell!" And thus He jumped and ran as fast as he could
only into the house.

Pulcher wrote to Balthasar this wonderful event and promised his attention to double on the small
magical beast. Vermilion seemed about what happened to him, bleak. He liked to get to bed and
moans and groans so that the customer is, how he suddenly ill, now a minister moonlight, the
princes came barsanuphe.

Fuerst barsanuphe immediately sent his personal physician to the little darling.

"My Secret Spezialrat most excellent," said the physician, as he felt
his pulse, "They sacrifice themselves for the state.

Hard work she has thrown on the bedside, sustained thought you caused enormous suffering,
you must feel. You look on his face very pale and haggard from, but your main value glows
terrible! - Well, well! - But no Gehirnentzuendung?

If the best interests of the State produced the like have? Hardly possible! - Let it "The physician
probably did the same red streak had discovered on cinnabar head perceive the Pulcher and Adrian.
He did, after he some magnetic lines in the distance trying a touch
of the patients also variously what this mauzte quinkelierte significantly
and now go there with your hand over the main and touched the same
thing unwittingly.

Jumped cinnabar, foaming with rage, in the height and was with his little Knochenhaendchen the physician,
who remains bowed just all about him, such a firm slap that echoed throughout the room.

"What you want," cried vermilion, "what do you want from me what you crawl around on me my head!
I'm not sick, I'm healthy, very healthy, will get up at once and Minister for travel to the
conference, continues to shave "-!

The physician hurried away quite frightened of. But when he told the princes barsanuphe, what
happened to him, delighted in calling this: "What a zeal for the service of the State! - Which would,
in which territorial behavior! - What a man, this tin!

"-

"My best secret Spezialrat," said the Minister Praetextatus of moonshine to the small Cinnabar,
"how wonderful it is that you are not respecting your illness, in the conference. I have designed
in the important matter with the court a memorandum Kakatukker - even Designed and ask that
you present it to the princes, for your witty presentation highlights the whole thing, for
me, its author will then recognize the prince. "- The memoir, which Praetextatus wanted gleaming
but no one else had written when Adrian.

The Minister went with the small to the princes. Cinnabar pulled the memoir, which submitted the Minister
may, out of his pocket and began to read.

As it so but not right now wanted to go and he muttered something incomprehensible and only louder
purring, he took the Minister the paper from the hands and read themselves

The prince seemed delighted, he revealed his approval, a time in history the other shouting:
"Schoen - well said - great - appropriately!" -

And ended the minister, the prince walked almost going on the little tin, raised in the height,
he pressed her to his chest, just to where it (the princes) of the large star gruengefleckten
the Tigers sat and sobbed and stammered, while he often tears flowed from his eyes: "No - such
a man - such a talent - such enthusiasm - such Love - it's too much
- too much! "Then follows:" cinnabar! - I hereby raise you to my Minister!
- Stay sweet and loyal to his country, keep an honest servant of the
barsanuphe, from which you honored - to be loved "And now with the
Minister verdruesslichem view. immediately: "I noticed my dear Baron
of moonshine to the deteriorating for some time their forces. Rest
on their estates will be beneficial! - Good-bye! "-

The Minister
of moonlight away, muttering incomprehensible words in their teeth
sparkling eyes and throwing on cinnabar, which, after its kind, his
cane in the Standing back propped on tiptoe lifted into the air and
looked around proudly and boldly.

"I have to," said the prince now,
"I need you, my dear cinnabar, like your high According to distinguish
merit, therefore, receive from my hands the Order of the gruengefleckten
Tiger! "

The prince wanted him now, the ribbon that it is in the
speed of the valet rich can put on, but cinnabar misshapen physique
meant that the tape certainly did not want to sit norm alma acetate,
by moving up soon pushed unduly soon well down shivering. He consulted her daily about his speeches; it was she who always put into them some happy
thought, some telling phrase that was sure to captivate the people. In a pinch she could make
a speech herself, and she would probably be seen on the stump in the West. And she was as beautiful
as she was intellectual and eloquent; she would be the most picturesque feature of this or
any campaign ever waged in America. It continued in this vein for two columns, employing all
the latest devices of the newest and yellowest journalism, of which the process is quite simple,
provided you have no conscience--that is, you take a grain of fact and you build upon it a
mountain of fancy, and the mountain will be shaped according to the taste of the builder.

Harley would have laughed--these things always seemed to him childish or flippant rather than
wicked--if it had not been for the photograph. That was too real; it was exactly like Sylvia
Morgan, and it implied connivance between the newspaper and some body else. In Idaho it might
have one look, but here in Chicago it would have another, and in New York it would have still
another and yet worse. She ought to see the true aspect of these things. To Harley, reared
with the old-fashioned Southern ideals, from which he never departed, it was all inexpressibly
distasteful--he did not stop to ask himself why he should be more concerned about the picture
of Miss Morgan than those of many other women whom he saw in the newspapers--and his feeling
was not improved by the entrance of Churchill and his sneering comment.

"A good picture of her," said Churchill. "These Western girls like such things. Of course she
sent it to the newspaper office."

"I do not know anything of the kind, nor do you, I think," replied Harley, with asperity. "Nor
am I aware that the West is any fonder than the East of notoriety."

"Have it any way you wish," said Churchill, superciliously. "But I fail to see why you should
disturb yourself so much over the matter."

His tone was so annoying that Harley felt like striking him, but instead ignored him, and Churchill
strolled carelessly on, humming a tune, as he had seen insolent people on the stage do in such
moments.

Harley thrust the newspaper into his pocket, and went into one of the ladies' parlors, where
he saw Miss Morgan sitting by a window and looking out at the hasty life of Chicago. She did
not hear his approach until he was very near, and then, starting at the sound of his footsteps,
she looked up, and her cheeks flushed.

"It should be a happy day for you," said Harley, "and I suppose that you are enjoying the triumph."

"Why should I not?" she replied. "I have a share in it."

"So you have, and the press has recognized it."

"What do you mean?"

"I was just looking at a very good picture of you," said Harley, and he spread the paper before
her, hoping that she would express surprise and distaste. But she showed neither.

"Oh, I've seen that already," she said, quite coolly. "Don't you think it a good picture?"

"I have no fault to find with the likeness," replied Harley, with some meaning in his tone.

"Then what fault have you to find?"

Harley was embarrassed, and hesitated, seeking for the right words--what did it matter to him
if she failed to show the reserve that he thought part of a gentlewoman's nature.

"You infer more than I meant," he said, at last. "I merely felt surprise that they should have
obtained a photograph so quickly."

The slightly deepened flush in her cheeks remained and she surveyed him with the same cool
air of defiance.

"They would have had a picture, anyhow, something made up; was it not better, then, to furnish
them a real one than to have a burlesque published?"

"It's hardly usual," said Harley, more embarrassed than ever. "But really, Miss Morgan, I have
no right to speak of it in any connection."

"No, but you were intending to do so. It was in your eye when I looked up and saw you coming
towards me."

Her voice had grown chilly, and her gaze was fixed on Harley. The Western girl certainly had
dignity and reserve when she wished them, but he did not believe that she chose the right moments
to display these admirable qualities.

"I did not know that I had such a speaking countenance," said Harley. "And even if so, you
must not forget that you might read it wrong."

"I do not think so," she said, still chilly, and, glancing up at the clock, she added: "It
is almost twelve, and I promised Aunt Anna to be with her a half-hour ago."

At the door she paused, turned back, and a flashing smile illuminated her face for a moment.

"Oh, Mr. Harley," she said, "don't you wish some newspaper would print your picture?"

Then she was gone, leaving him flushed and irritated. He was angry, both at her and himself;
at himself because he had expected to rebuke her, to show her indirectly and in a delicate
way where she was wrong, and he had never even got as far as the attack. It was he who had
been put upon the defence, when he had not expected to be in such a state, and his self-satisfaction
suffered. But he told himself that she was a crude Western girl, and that it was nothing to
him if she forced herself into the public gaze in a bold and theatrical manner. And the woman but had shouted across tolljubelnd, Minister
of cinnabar with twenty buttons, this is just her dear son, the small Zach. At the cry of the
woman, to the thundering curses of the porter was all out the whole house gathered together,
and the noise was worse and worse. As the valet came down to hunt the people apart, Se. Excellence
so outrageous in the morning calm disturbed, they just threw the woman, all were mad, out of the
house.

On the stone steps of the opposite house was now out and the woman sobbed and lamented that
the people in there they do not gross her Herzenssoehnlein to the Klein wanted Zaches, the minister
can become. Many people gathered gradually around her, which she repeated over and over that
the Minister cinnabar no one else was when her son she was told in youth Zaches small, so
people last did not know whether they keep the woman for great or even should have guessed that
really what to the matter.

The woman did not turn his eyes away from cinnabar window. As they struck at once a light pool on
beat, her hands and cried aloud joyfully: "There he is - there is he, my Herzensmaennlein -
my little Koboldchen - Good morning, little Zach! - Good morning, Klein Zach "- all people out
kuckten, and when they saw the little tin, which in his embroidered scarlet dress, the ribbon
of the Tigers gruengefleckten slung over his shoulder, before the window was that went down
to the floor, so that his whole figure by the see large clear windows, they laughed quite excessive
and blustered and shouted: "Small Zaches - Small Zaches Ha see, but the little baboon dressed - the
great monster - The Wurzelmaennlein - Klein Zach! Klein Zach "- The porter, all the servants
ran cinnabar out to behold to what the people for so intemperate laugh and rejoice. But hardly
they saw their masters, as they shouted far worse than the people
of the wildest laughter: "Little Zach - Klein Zach - root man - Daeumling
- mandrake" -

The minister seemed only now to perceive that the great
spook other things on the street no one is true, as he pulled himself
to his window, looked with angry eyes flashing down, screamed, raced,
strange jumps made in anger - threatened Guard - Police - Stock home
and fortress.

But the more the excellence raged in anger, the anger was uproar and
laughter, they started with stones - fruit - vegetables or what you
just got on hand, after the unfortunate Minister throw - he had into
it! -

"God in heaven," cried the terrified valet, "from the windows
of the gracious excellence kuckte even out the little monster vile
- What is it? - How is the little fellow witches came into the room
"- He ran up, but as before he found the bedroom cabinet Minister
closed.

He ventured to knock softly! - No answer! -

However, was the white sky, in what manner, a dull murmur arose among
the people, the little monster was ridiculous up there really small
Zaches that the proud name Cinnabar accepted and soared through all
sorts of disgraceful lies and deceit.

Always louder and louder rose the voices. "Down with the little beast - down - knock the small
Zaches the Minister jacket - lock him in the Kaeficht - let's see him for money at the fair! -
It bonded with tinsel and brings it to the children for a toy! - Up - up "- And that stormed the
people against the house.

The valet ranking the hands in despair. "Rebellion - do - tumult - Excellence You - save you
"- he cried;! But left no answer, only a low groan be heard.

The front door was smashed, the people banged up in wild laughter upstairs.

"Now it's true," said the valet, and ran with all his might against
the door of the cabinet, they jumped clanking and rattling off its
hinges. - No excellence - not to cinnabar Find! -

Excellence - Excellence
gracious - you do not hear because the rebellion - Excellence - Gracious
Excellence, where it has for the - God forgive me my sins, where you
deign to be because !

Are "

Sun cried the valet, in despair rennend through the rooms.

But no answer no sounds loud, but the mocking echo of the Marmorwaenden.

Vermilion appeared without a trace, disappeared soundlessly. - Outside, it was quieter, the valet heard
the deep sonorous voice of a woman who spoke to the people, and saw through the window, looking,
as the people left gradually, quietly murmuring to each other, the
house, dubious Look up throwing at the windows.

"The rebellion seems over," said the valet, "now is the gracious excellence
probably emerge from their hiding places.

"

He went back to bed cabinet, suspecting there, the Minister would probably still located at
the end.

He threw peering eyes round about, since he was aware, as from a beautiful
silver Henkelgefaess, which used to always close to stand next to
the toilet because it is the Minister as an expensive gift from the
princes was very valuable, very small thin legs hervorstarrten.

"God - God," cried the valet, horrified, "God - God - I'm not mistaken, shall belong to the
pins where His Excellency the Minister cinnabar, my gracious Lord!

" - He was ascended, he said, shaken by the fright of all the showers, by looking down: Excellence
- Excellence - to God, what do you do - what are you doing down there in the dark "

However, since cinnabar was quiet, the valet saw probably a danger in the excellence floated,
and that it was time to put aside all respect. He took the Cinnabar in the leg - pulled it out! -
Oh dead - dead was the little excellence! The valet broke into loud lamentations, the Jaeger,
the servants came running, you ran the Physician to the princes.

Meanwhile, dry the valet his poor unfortunate Mr. with clean towels, put him to bed, covered
it with silk cushions, so that only the small shriveled little face was visible.

Then went inside the Lady of Rose Schoen. She had only heaven knows how Nature, the people calmed
down. Now she walked over to the lifeless cinnabar, was followed by the old Lisa, the little
Zaches birth mother. - Cinnabar did indeed handsomer in death; than he ever looked in his
entire life.

The tiny little eyes were closed, the Naescher very white, the mouth, the gentle smile a little
warped, but above all the dark brown hair flowed in the most beautiful curls. About the main
dash out the Fraeulein the little ones, and at the moment shone forth a feeble glimmer of a
red stripe.

"Ha," cried the young lady by her eyes glittered with joy, "ha, Prosper Alpanus! - High Master,
you will keep his word! - Serving his fate and with him all the shame is "!

"Ah," said the old Henry, "you oh dear God, that's surely not my little
Zacher, so pretty has never looked.

Since I am now completely free to the city gone, and you have not advised me well, my dear
lady! "-

"Just do not grumble, old man," replied the lady, "you had only followed my advice properly, and you
were not before, when I was here, got into this house, everything would be available for You
better. - I repeat, the boy, who lies dead in bed there is certainly and truly Your son, young Zach!
"

"Well," the woman cried with shining eyes, "now if there really is my little Excellency Child,
so I erb I suppose all the beautiful things around here are around,
the whole House with all that is in there?

"

"No," said the lady, "that is now totally gone, you've got the right
moment failed to win money and property. - You is I have said right,
you is what it is Wealth is not fated.

"-

"So I may," continued the woman, by her tears in her eyes were, "I must not at least take my
poor little man in the apron and take home? - Our pastor has so many pretty stuffed birds and
eichkaetzchen that will I leave my stuff Zaches small, and I will put it on my cabinet, as He
is there in the red rock with the wide band and the big star on his
breast, to eternal Souvenirs! -

"That," the girl exclaimed almost
angrily, "this is a quite simple idea, the goes to not at all "! -

As
the woman began to sob, to complain to complain.

"What have I," she said, "now the fact that my small Zaches to high dignity, has come to great
wealth! - Had he remained with me, 'I only brought up in my poverty,
never waer' he would have in that damn thing like silver, he was still
alive, and I would have perhaps joy and blessings had from him.

I carried him around so in my wood bin, people would have felt pity and some nice little piece
of money thrown at me, but now "-

Much could be heard footsteps in the hall, the girl drove the old man, with instructions to
she should wait down at the door, she would trust her driving away in a sure means as all their
needs, all their misery can end suddenly.

Now Rosabelverde was again close up to the kids and spoke with the soft quivering Voice of deep pity:

"Poor
Zaches - step-child of nature - I had 'been kind to you - well' d
'it his folly, that I thought the outer, nice gift with which I blessed
you would, radiate into your mind and give a voice which would have
to tell you: 'You are not that for which you hold up, but still only
aspire to, emulate it to the, on the wings you lame, Unbefiederter
soar up!

" - But awoke no inner voice. Your vehicle dead spirit could not emporzurichten, you did not give
up in your stupidity, Rudeness, unruliness - Oh! - You were just
a little bit less, a little unrefined Ruepel left, you escaped the
ignominious death! - Prosper Alpanus has ensured that is now on death
again this holds, what you have to be in life by my power seemed.

Should I look up perhaps yet again as a small beetle - nimble mouse or nimble squirrel, so
it should be delighted! - Sleep well, young Zach! -

By Rosabelverde left the room, was the personal physician of princes in with the valet.

"To God," cried the doctor, when he saw the dead cinnabar and convinced that all Means to call
him into being, would remain in vain, "to God, as it is received, Mr. Kaemmerer? "

"Ah," he replied, "Oh, dear sir, rebellion or revolution, it is all one, as you call it raged,
and was busy outside in the vestibule all terribly. Se. Your Excellency, dear worried for their
lives would certainly hineinfluechten in the toilet slipped out and "-

"So," the doctor said solemnly, and moves, "he is to die for fear of even dead!"

And the door opened, and crashed into Fuerst barsanuphe with faded
face, behind him her seven paler Chamberlain.

"Is it true, is it true?" cried the prince, but as soon as he caught sight of the little corpse,
He bounced back and said, his eyes to heaven, with the expression
of the deepest Pain: "O cinnabar" - And the seven Chamberlain called
for the princes, "Oh tin!" and took, as did the Prince, the handkerchiefs
from his pocket and held it in front the eyes.

"What a loss," began after a moment of silent misery of the prince,
"what an irreparable Loss for the state! - Where to find a man of
the Order of the Tigers with gruengefleckten twenty buttons with the
dignity wears when my tin! - Physician, and I could the man to die!
- Tell me - how did it happen, how did this happen - what was Identify
- what died the excellent "? -

The physician gazed at the little
one very carefully, felt certain passages former pulses dash along
the main, cleared his throat and began: "My lord, if I am Be content
to float on the surface, I could say that the minister was at the
entirely Absence of breath died, this lack of breath was caused by
the impossibility to draw breath, and again this impossibility only
caused by the element, by the humor, crashed in the minister.

I could say that the Minister was in this way a humorous death died, but far from me was this
shallowness, far from me explain the addiction, all from vile physical principles to do what
only the area of the purely psychological reason finds its natural irrevocable. - My dear Fuerst,
was released the man's word! - The first seeds of death, the Minister took place in the Order
of the gruengefleckten Tiger with twenty buttons! -

"What," cried
the prince, as he glared at the physician with zorngluehenden eyes,
"how! - what do you speak? - The Order of the Tiger with twenty buttons
gruengefleckten, the Blessed for the good of the state with so much
grace, with so much dignity wore? - The cause of his death? - Prove
to me that, or - Chamberlain, what do you say?

"He must prove he has to prove, or" - called the seven pale Chamberlain, and the Physician
continued:

"My good gracious prince, I'll prove it, so no or - hung the thing! together as follows: The
heavy badge with ribbon, but especially the Buttons on the back had a negative effect on the
ganglia of the spine. At the same time caused Star of the Order a print to that knotty fadichte thing
between the tripod and the upper Gekroespulsader, which we call the solar plexus, and the labyrinth
in the tissue of the Plexus predominates. This organ is dominant in the most manifold relations
the cerebral system, and of course was the attack on the ganglion and the enemies. But is not
the free line of the cerebral condition of consciousness, the personality, as an expression
of the most perfect union of the whole into a focal point? Is not the life process the activity
in both spheres, in the ganglia and cerebral system? - Well! enough of that Attack disturbs
the function of the psychic organism. Only gloomy ideas came from unidentified Sacrifices for
the state through the painful wearing that Order, etc, are insidious
was the state, to utter disharmony to the ganglia and cerebral system
at last to utter Cessation of consciousness and mere abandonment of
the personality brought about.

This State we call death, but with the words! - Yes, sir! - The Minister had already given
up his personality was so already stone dead when he hineinstuerzte in verhaengnisvolle of that
vessel. - So had his death not physical, but a vast deep psychological cause. "-

"Physician," the prince said angrily, "physician, you talk now half an hour, and I'll be damned
if I understand a syllable of it.

What do you do with your physical and psychic? "

"The physical principle," the doctor took the floor again, "is the condition of the vegetative Life,
the psychological reasons however, the human organism, which is only in the spirit in the thinking
power the drive wheel of the existence of place. "


There was an exchange of significant looks among Mr. Goodnight, Mr. Crayon, and their friends,
and then an emphatic nodding of heads, all of which indicated very clearly to Churchill that
they admired his acuteness of perception, and were glad to have their own opinion confirmed
by one who observed so well.

"Wouldn't it be well to lay these facts before the readers of the Monitor?" suggested Mr. Goodnight,
mildly. "We all know what a powerful organ the Monitor is, and what influence it has in conservative
circles. It would be a hint to Mr. Grayson and his friends; it would show him the path in which
he ought to walk, and it would save trouble later on in the campaign."

Churchill's heart thrilled again. This was a greater honor even than he had hoped for; he was
to sound the mighty trumpet note of the campaign, but his pride would not let him show the
joy that he felt.

"In giving these views--and I appreciate their great importance--shall I quote you and Mr.
Crayon?" he asked, easily.

Mr. Goodnight mused a few moments, and twiddled his fingers.

"We want the despatch to appear in the shape that will give it the greatest effect, and you
are with us in that wish, Mr. Churchill," he said, confidingly. "Now this question arises:
if our names appear it will look as if it were a matter between Mr. Grayson and ourselves personally,
which is not the case; but if it appears on the authority of the Monitor and your own, which
is weighty, it will then stand as a matter between Mr. Grayson and the people, and that is
a fact past denying. Now, what do you think of it yourself, Mr. Churchill?"

Since they left it so obviously to his intelligence, Churchill was bound to say that they were
right, and he would write the warning, merely as coming from the great portion of the public
that represented the solid interests of the country, the quiet, thinking people who never indulged
in any foolish chase after a will-o'-the-wisp.

Mr. Goodnight and Mr. Crayon made many further suggestions about the points of the despatch,
but they admitted ingenuously that they were not able to write, that they possessed no literary
and effective style, that it would be for Mr. Churchill to clothe their crude thoughts--that
is, if he approved of them--in trenchant phrase and brilliant style.

There was such an air of good-fellowship, and Churchill admitted to himself so freely that
these men might make suggestions worth while, that he decided, moreover, as the hour was growing
late, to write the despatch there and then, and tell to the world through the columns of the
Monitor, not what Jimmy Grayson ought to do, but all the things that he ought not to do, and
they were many. The most important of these related to the tariff and the currency, which,
in the view of Mr. Goodnight and his friends, should be left absolutely alone.

Paper was produced, and Churchill began to write, often eliciting words of admiration from
the others at the conciseness and precision with which he presented his views. It was cause
for wonder, too, that they should find themselves agreeing with him so often, and they admired,
also, the felicity of phrasing with which he continued to present all these things as the views
of a great public, thus giving the despatch the flavor of news rather than opinion. When it
was finished--and it would fill two full columns of the Monitor--the line was quite clearly
drawn between what Jimmy Grayson could do and what he could not do--and Churchill was proud
of the conviction that none but himself had drawn it. Mr. Grayson, reading this--and he certainly
would read it--must know that it came from inspired sources, and he would see straight before
him the path in which it was wise for him to walk. Churchill knew that he had rendered a great
service, and he felt an honest glow.

"I think I shall file this at once," he said, "as it is growing late, and there is an hour's
difference between here and New York."

They bade him a most complimentary adieu, suggesting that they would be glad to hear from him
personally during the campaign, and announcing their willingness to serve him if they could;
and Churchill left the hotel, contented with himself and with them. When he was gone, they
smiled and expressed to each other their satisfaction. In fifteen minutes swift operators were
sending Churchill's despatch eastward.

V

"KING" PLUMMER

Meanwhile the evening was proving of no less interest to Harley than to Churchill, although
in a quite different way. He had noticed, when they parted at the hotel door, the apparent
sadness, or, rather, the touch of the pathetic in the manner of Miss Morgan, and he observed
it again when they were all reunited at the hotel table. Heretofore she had been light, ironical,
and bearing a full share in the talk, but now she merely replied when spoken to directly, and
her tone had the tinge of melancholy. Mr. and Mrs. Grayson looked at her more than once, as
if they were about to refer to some particular subject, but always they refrained; instead,
they sought by light talk to divert attention from her, and they succeeded in every case but
that of Harley.

It was not a long dinner, and as they returned to the ladies' parlor they were welcomed by
a loud, joyous cry, and out of the dark of the room a big man projected himself to greet them.
His first words were for Miss Morgan, whom he affectionately called "Little Girl," and whom
he seized by the hands and kissed on the forehead. It was a loud voice, but round, full, and
mellow, and Harley judged that it came from a big nature as well as a big body.

When the man stepped into the light, Harley saw that he was over six feet high, and with a
width according. His broad face was covered with short, iron-gray beard, and his head was thatched
with hair equally thick and of the same gray shade. In years he might have been fifty, and
it was Harley's first impression at this moment that the big man was Miss Morgan's father--it
came to him with a rather queer feeling that it had never occurred to him to ask about her
parents, whether they were living or dead, and what kind of people they were or had been.

The stranger shook hands with Mr. and Mrs. Grayson, and expressed vocally the pleasure that
his eyes also conveyed. Harley and Hobart were the only others present, and, turning to them,
Mr. Grayson introduced the stranger, Mr. William Plummer--"King Plummer, you know." It was more a power over his will as his own intention, which Wanka
colleagues dragged to the dark and what it was then noted that the fact that Rezek all the questions
that had plagued him in recent times guessed, and the unspoken involuntarily answered. Zdenko did
not, however, how far these responses on its Issues also rose, and it could happen that his strength
and the wisdom of his naive pure youth soon blind in the service of the agitator were energetic,
they very convenient and had to be favorable. The deepening severity of the police service,
the story of "King Bohun "and other semi-political events have had the young people carefully and
anxiously made, and Rezek had to use some of his purposes of paid mob, which he then at the next
opportunity came over as show-off. As it was the dream of the dark Man: see unspoiled young people
good article, which convinced by the law of their Begin to strive toward with all the blind
force of conscience bears a national liberation and engage in juvenile Dauntless a goal which
he himself did not believe it forever.

On their common ways to which Luisa was listening share, they had a small, niebesuchte restaurant
discovered high on the Prague Castle. From its circular bay window, they could see often as the
heavy hazy spring evenings, the city destroyed, as you fire on the domes and towers here and
there, haggard and like madness of two thoughtful window eyes suggested. And the whole burden
of this foreboding twilight was on the three young men, there turned the energetic Rezek, the
great fear had long before this quiet hours, probably to the pensive girl and said in a hard
voice: "Loisinka, they play us something," And. from the wall niche where Luisa was sitting,
like flapping wings rustled the long tones of a harmonium, and the simple folk songs made people
even more quiet and lonely. It was always dark around them and they might appear like valedictory,
wave to each other and not recognize it ... By the middle of the song in sound and broke the
trembling Silencing of the harmonium merged with Luisa's tentative outburst wines. Then ordered
Rezek "They play but what cheerful .."

But Luisa knew only a few folk songs and the brother said: Our people have no fun Tones. His favorite
songs are still crying.

As Rezek started with heavy steps into the little room to walk up
and down and finally He remained in the bay window and said:

"Like
a child is our people.

Sometimes I see it, type: our hatred of the Germans is actually nothing political, but something -
how shall I say? - Something human. Not that we must share with the Germans in the homeland,
our anger, but that we People are such an adult size makes us sad. It is the story of the child,
which grows under the old. It learns to smile, even before it has been able to laugh. "

But after the waitress lit the lamp to Rezek sat in the big old chair and started, pressed the yellow
nervous hands over his eyes, like talking to himself: "What helps everything. At that time it
has said than the people, you are young, the educated have been ashamed for it. And they have become
old quickly instead of being older. Instead of appreciating each day, Do you have to have a yesterday
and a day before yesterday. Queen Hofer handwriting, of course! Not content, they have searched
their culture in foreign lands and at the same place where they is done at the most - at the
French. So Kam: between the Czechs and formed the people are centuries. They do not understand
anymore. We have only old men and children, in terms of culture. We have our beginning and
our end at the same time. We can not last. = = This is our tragedy, not the Germans. "

Luisa saw the horrors, which becomes evident in the features of his brother during this confession. It
seemed difficult to hold back, all his tendons were as eager to spring.

Rezek did not notice it anymore, he was like awakening from a bad dream, and the strict Accent his
voice seemed to revoke all previous. He designed this evening, the boldest plans and felt
with his own ingenuity as ruthlessly all means and possibilities after, it seemed so clear
about the goals of his tireless agitation that Zdenko again went
down once more in its influence.

Nevertheless, called this evening for Wanka the beginning of a hard inner struggle. He had felt
proud and strong in its mission, as long as he thought for a young and healthy People aspire
to and now he had learned that these people suffered from internal dissension and despaired
of himself. And he lost all joy and courage. He was like the daring lieutenant, who plunges
his troops before the enemy in superior force. Since He hears that the defeat of his family is
already sealed, and what at the moment still That was a joyful hero, he is a useless, desperate
victims. The poor young man feeling of a sudden so many new, unused, in the lonely, do not
go to the end wants and longs to thrive in another silent spring. - The high and bright Words
of the national enthusiasm had gone out to him, and more than once rushed out of Wanka the hot
secret meetings in the streets that night, by which he, haphazard, an uncertain tomorrow against
wrong. But strong personality Rezek stood over him, he midst of his meditations again and he hoped
for a way out and not dared admit the dark apprentice's growing doubts. He said nothing against
any of them. He noticed the worried question in plain sight of his mother, and he thought he
drown by his violent, hasty tenderness. He leaned his pale intimate Sister and tried to recognize
itself as it were in these fleeting moments a pure love.

Now Luisa began ominously to understand the inner conflict in Zdenkos soul. She knew nothing
of the beginning of the infidelity of his work and that he assumed his duties as Felt forced.
But she saw that he pulled at some chains, and she thought the bronze Rezek power of being, from
which he fled to weak and timid, always return. Long ago the figure of the pale man was also about her.
She found his picture in all their thoughts and was not surprised there. It seemed he was into
it as the Crucified in the monastic cell. And she could not defend him, that he grew up in their dreams
and last one was with the dark prince of the old mask dream and now for them no more Rezek,
but Julius Caesar was said. And since the girl was a little strange. Any Scenes from distant years,
and half-forgotten dreams, and strange shapes and purple words she had heard from her brother,
and another which they could not explain crowded around her like a new fantastic time in which
all the laws are different and all Obligations. You could choose between tuna and dreams indistinguishable
and looked all events of everyday life in the colors of that Krumlov blood feast, their deepest
and most moving memory. She lived now in the midst of the silent, solemn figures, and felt increasingly
clear that they too must have a role in this secret dance. And they sat for days, a missed work in her
lap, looked at the window, with eyes lost in the high blank walls the Maltheserkirche and thought,
what only what?

* * * * *

                   

The lazy, casual summer days passed slowly towards the feast of the Assumption of Mary. A heavy
sadness was about Wankas. The homesickness that the four men almost had forgotten, came back
in another unexpected shape about it. They longed not to the past, but they dreamed in the hot
bars close behind curtained Windows of the light, airy summer village, where the cool woods are so neighborly.
From the bright field paths through which the young fruit trees touching her thin shadow place
so that you go about it up like a ladder, from stroke to stroke. From the heavy, mature fields,
which weighed as wide and splendid start to the evening to and from the Trees, in the dark Santander
silence the silent ponds are, and no one knows how deep they are. And everyone thought of
the four people on any given minor had hour, the little one lucky once, without having to
evaluate it, just taken. And to more painful was this longing, as it concerned not sunk, as each felt
as the serene summer home waiting for him and was sad when no one came. To him at least to
be closer, they made short trips along the Vltava River, and believed the foresters widow most easily
the small woods behind their good-natured rural Kuchelbad lie and was from that imperceptible happiness
fulfilled that old, hard-working people is peculiar. You was quiet and introverted and hardly
smiled, but the wrinkles around the lips had passed and that gave her face a little cub, and
Sunny, as they might not be as bride had owned. She noticed then hardly how rare Zdenko look
to the bright landscape rose from the root path, and how fast the summer flowers wilted in the
hot hands of Luisa's. The old Rosalka was quite at home and defied, she said of the Summer:
No, if he does not comes to me to run after I shall not him, sat down with an old prayer book to
the kitchen window and fell asleep on the piety.

The dusty days of August seemed to be on a non load: on Rezek. He was a tireless Power, even in recent
times even a boisterous merriment was in his nature, which Wanka
could not understand.

He did not know that Rezek was always so rampant, the risk close to him and his secret desire rose and
took the change rather than characters good results out.

His last concern vanished as Rezek at a walk, she again habit took the three of suggested, in the
"Vikárka"

(a small, ancient Inn, the St. Vitus Cathedral against einzukehren). They sat at a table in
the dark rearmost room and clinked glasses with genuine Melnik. The student withholds not
the wine, and so loud was his mirth, that the few other guests, it was Bishop's lackeys, had
to participate. Rezek told the tale of the bread Countess, who in the old Czernin's to deal
palace, his vicious mockery took up the most exciting places and changing so the effect of his
words in a strange and surprising ways. Here and there were other stories (they lurk in all corners
of the dim parlors) alert, and it happened found that Zdenko say the Krumlov, including those of
Julius Caesar was the best.

"Actually, that would be your thing," he had said to Luisa.

But she only shook his head silently, then raised his wine glass and held it long to his lips. With
nearly closed mouth, she began to suck, and her eyes looked this great in the Drink in, the purple
glow on her face was narrow.

With a male Rezek said: "How do you say that. Strange.

Is not a similarity between our time and the days before the Thirty Years' War? "

In his words shook something. Zdenko and others laughed. Luisa but lifted the beaker slowly by her
cold red lips, and looked with frightened eyes to the student.

When it was later on the way home, Rezek remained close to the old
castle stairs in front of a gate, emblazoned on its bow, a black double
coat of arms, and asked: "Have you ever been in there?"

The brothers said no.

"So you do not even know Daliborka? Shame on you. "

Rezek and already went through the narrow Thürrahmen of the gate, and Luisa, who stood with
him, saw a neat yard, inside, guarded by the bright walls, wide, warm shade of the afternoon
camped. A little old woman came in greeting from the front door, chasing a Flock of chickens in front
of him and then motioned the stranger to follow. Zdenko went first, then Rezek and Luisa came
last, because the path was so narrow that go one after the other had. Luisa hesitated a little
and looked around with wide eyes: there was a ridiculous had small vegetable garden, the cabbage
heads and shoots a six-year-old child probably can count, but the
middle of it stood a stocky apple tree, which his little red Fruits
of the remote seemed to show verschimmernden city.

A few steps dichtverwucherte deflected in a damp and dim part of the slope down and there were
many bushes of wild roses, whose branches Luisa did not want to be
over.

As Rezek remained standing and the Girl heard the voice of Zdenko: "So this is the famous dungeon.
The knight Dalibor has in there out of sheer longing learned to play the violin. That was here?
"

"Yes," replied Rezek, "but I always believe that he has taken the violin before. The Longing rarely
sings. "

And there they stood before the heavy studded door of the gray tower. Luisa looked up and noticed
that the thick walls spanned only part of a roof neugezimmerten were. On the free edge of the parapet
next to a disheveled Thistle stuck a slim, young acacia and raised her pale grape leaves with
tender grace in the clear sky into it. That was the last picture of the day. It was always damp
and blacker, and the hushed Air settled like a veil before the girl's eyes. "If she sees us
in," she heard the Students ask. He held out his hand. His voice was harsh and alien from
the uncertain Depths of the vault, and Luisa was not able to reply. She felt with bated Breathing,
shuddering softly, out of the icy walls and found himself again until it the reddish Glimmer
of a light, as warm, entgegenkam from the next hall. Then she found the two Men and the woman
in the middle of the room bent over something, and a candle schwehlende
swayed by a rope just above their heads bowed.

Then the light slipped with a screeching noise deeper and deeper
in the past three faces, which one seconds long brightly illuminated
were, it fell to their feet and slowly disappeared in a black opening
round of the soil, on which only a last-extinguishing shine through
and herzuckte.

As Luisa also tended to himself and saw the candle, small, deep reached
the bottom in a second gray room, under which even seemed to start
third, black.

"Oh," said Luisa.

Zdenko took her wet, trembling hand. "Be careful, Luisa"

And then told the old woman with a somewhat low, monotone voice that is moist before the Walls
seemed to fear and shun narrow circles buzzed around the four heads.

"The new, "she just said, quietly and secretly, as if it were a dear,
personal recollection, the they entrusted someone for the first time,
"the new, coming down here, got a piece of Bread and a jug of water.

Yes, and with the bread and water they had to get up and because of the hole they had to sit and
watch as the man who was already sitting down, or one weeks two, no, depending on (there are
some people so very much viscous force) is coming to an end hungry.

So what if it was to end in God's name were they let down ... "

"To this rope?" Teased Zdenko.

The woman did not interfere, "she had been let down and only the dead,
namely to what they are hungry to see the end come into it, the hole
in the ground there - see You.

"(All bowed before him.)

"Sometimes they will have eaten well the previous half-laughed Rezek"
cruel.

"Maybe so," murmured the old woman and then continued in its long-familiar explanation.

Luisa leaned to his brother: "It is deep," she inquired?.

"Very deep."

"And no one can back out?"

"No," said Rezek now. "This thing is like a bottle, narrow at the top and ever arched his reason
to. gives A's as unlikely to climb back. By the way, would 'which the best remedy for excess
Rich today. "

Luisa heard him laugh. The housekeeper took up half the candle and then went more into the Space
back. The men followed her. Now opened the fleeting, elusive glow of a match here and there,
unexpected niches and passages, which to collapse in a moment silent
again appeared.

                   A vague began to stir.

The light above the crater was anxious, and the broad dark all around seemed to wake up, to
stretch and in-growing forms Luisa vorüberzufluten. And more clearly recognized her pair and
pair. And they lined up to be a tumbling and dance from dance and pitching finally got the one
your wondering eyes meet: Julius Caesar.

He was silent and black. You beat up the heart in his throat and terrified, she lowered the
eye and he fell, fell into an endless depth. She knew: She was on the edge of the tower. She was
herself the blue lady. At its freezing She felt that she was without clothes, without clothes.
With trembling fingers she felt out of her womb and she felt his mere slip. Then she looked up
above was night sternelos. And then he stood by her, almost close to her, on the edge. The blue
lady took revenge: this time he. And she lifted involuntarily hands and pushed her straight
at him - until they pushed on his shoulders - then But at the moment of sudden touch, she
grabbed him frantically pulled him back to the ago, he felt, and in a new, deep, shaking her
bliss lost consciousness.

* * * * *

And if in the end even, it seems, the morose Rosalka which Zdenkos struts and the ambitious wish of
his mother, proud and sinful place, were right. For it but had to be something like pride, which
induced the young man, three times within three weeks to move home, namely: from his small little
room, which in the walls of the Knights of Malta saw in the pre-trial detention, and from there
to the hospital and finally even to the cemetery VII Wolschan of where the mother had a piece
of land, three steps in length and two broad bought. All he wanted. And all this had happened so
quickly that the woman with the aging Mind could not be found in this unexpected, sudden professional
survey, only could shake his head, and still was traveling to the strange, small country estate as
she did not understand that the new owners out there liked it. You forgot to work and food every
third day and returned back to the hospital doctor, who finally tired, the distraught mother
always the sad case of pneumonia with fatal outcome to explain and to add that this was not to
be wondered at such infamous autumn weather. If Mrs. Wanka then, impatient of the doctor and
the waiting visitors almost from the door urged stepped out into the dripping pearl gray cloudy
day, then they took the right every time the weather to look into just to get to the understanding
of the "sad case". But outside they hastened shyly past the houses and people and came breathlessly
into their Apartment where they found Luis, always in the same place, with hot, dry eyes and
feverish Hands. They were then seated facing each other, without lighting the lamp, without any something
to say, very far from each other until it was so dark, that they forgot one another. From time
to time one of the women got up and walked on tiptoe, as should the others fail also noted,
in Zdenkos long deserted, dusty little room. She carefully stepped inside. And only when she
found the empty desk and the neglected, hidden bed, went out the crazy smile of a wild, always
believing hope in the quivering lips. The Retarded but then listened to: She heard the door
go. And then started in the abandoned Chamber crying - afraid and hopeless. Until the old one
Saturday Rosalka the small Aufwusch back room and then took the key itself. The crying stopped
but not; filled it by day from the two rooms, and appeared in every night searching through
the house go to sleep so that the children did not want. And adults were burning light up into the
morning, because everyone in the old house was the corner of his
room to look and was secretly glad when the next rainy day gray beat
against the windows.

Those who complained about the girl swore at Rosalka soul and honesty that one can not however,
do, stand as a holy water and pray the Our Father, for so be it every time a die with many worldly
desires in the heart and without the proper rest and devotion. And they prayed at the Peel
beets and the crockery washed, the neighbors were praying and Höckin under the stone arcades
also prayed. Holy water and splashed it behind the two women, which those with slow rhythmical
steps down the hall and the corridors were as learned they had behind the hearse. Mrs. Wanka
often went out, ran a few streets along aimlessly again to return home. Luisa but did not move
from her seat. You had no fantasies, and in her dreams, all colors become so pale as the Days outside.
Sometimes she counted the drops on the windows and listened: it swept her by such a large current in
the driven many broken, unintelligible words, always more and more - and she thought, as after
a flood. Then she winced suddenly, as if someone had called and -
once again began to count the number of trickling drops.

Thus came
All Souls. Since even see the broad streets of the Town of thought.
In the make flower shops are rich, ostentatious rings ready and the
strange flowers in them can not smile. The columns of the entertainment
advertising columns are pasted over empty, only the State Theatre
announced the presentation of old cemetery comedy The Miller and his
child " and are in the windows of art dealers from the colorful, English
prints three, four, five dark Photographieen pushed the illustrations
to the quiet melancholy songs Hermann of Gilmer: "Put on the table
the fragrant mignonette ..." Early in the moist shining "Ditch" the
lanterns lit, and still Fiacres and cabs drive past with large Palm
rings on driver's seat and the car roof and at some tram is back on
the colored lantern a pine thread or even a ring of metal hung, who
is not the first day of must survive the deceased this trip.

"How the bird befouls its own nest!" said the elderly Tremaine.

"'--information that will throw much light upon a campaign and a candidate both obscure hitherto.
This we present upon another page, and, as our cultivated readers will readily infer, the candidate,
Mr. Grayson, is not a bad man----'"

"Thanks for that crowning mercy," said Mr. Grayson.

"--but neither is he a great one; in short, he is, at least for the present, narrow and provincial;
moreover, he is of an impulsive temperament that is likely to lead him into untrodden and dangerous
paths. Our best hope lies in the fact that Mr. Grayson, who has not shown himself intractable,
may be brought to see this, and will rely upon the advice of those who are fitted to lead rather
than upon the reckless fancies of the Boys who are sure to surround him if he gives them a
chance. In this emergency we are sure that all the best in the state will rally with us. The
eyes of Europe are upon us, and we must vindicate ourselves.'"

"Uncle James," said Sylvia Morgan, sweetly, "I trust that you will remember throughout the
campaign that the eye of Europe is upon you, and conduct yourself accordingly. I have noticed
that in many of your speeches you seemed to be unconscious of the fact that Vienna and St.
Petersburg were watching you. Such behavior will never do."

Mr. Grayson smiled once more. He seemed to be less disturbed than any one else at the table,
yet he knew that this was in truth a warning given by an important wing of the party, and,
therefore, he must take thought of it. A prominent politician of Michigan was present, the
guest of Mr. Grayson, and he did not take the threat as calmly as the candidate.

"The writer of this despatch is with your party, I suppose," he said to Mr. Grayson.

"Oh yes; it is Mr. Churchill. He has been with us since the start."

"I would not let him go a mile farther; a man who writes like that--why, it's a positive insult
to you!--should not be allowed on your train."

The Michigan man's face flushed red, and in his anger he brought his hand down heavily on the
table; but Harley did not look at him, his full attention being reserved for the candidate.
Here was a test of his bigness. Would he prove equal to it?

"I am afraid that would be a mistake," said Jimmy Grayson, amiably, to the Michigan man, "a
mistake in two respects: our Constitution guarantees the freedom of the press, and the Monitor
and its correspondent have a right to write that way, if they wish to do so; and if we were
to expel Mr. Churchill, it would give them all the greater ground for complaint. Now, perhaps
I am, after all, a narrow and ignorant person who needs restraint."

He spoke the last sentence in such a whimsical tone and with such a frank smile that they were
all forced to laugh, even the Michigan man. But Harley felt relief. The candidate had shown
no littleness.

"I was sure that you would return such an answer, Uncle James," said Sylvia Morgan, and the
look that she gave him was full of faith. "Now, I mean to help you by converting Mr. Churchill."

"How will you do that?"

"I shall smile upon him, use my winning ways, and draw him into the fold."

There was a slight edge to her voice, and Harley was not sure of her meaning; but he and she
were together in the parlor an hour later, when they met Churchill, and he had a chance to
see. Churchill evidently was not expecting to find them there, but he assumed an important
air, knowing that his despatches had been received and read, and feeling, therefore, that he
was the author of a sensation. He anticipated hostility; he believed that Mr. Grayson's relatives
and friends would assail him with harsh words, and he had spoken already to one or two persons
of the six months' ordeal that he would have to endure. "But we must stand such things when
they are incurred in the line of duty," he said, "and I have a way which, perhaps, will teach
them to be not so ready in attacking me." He expected such a foray against him now, and his
manner became haughty in the presence of Sylvia Morgan and Harley.

"We--that is, all of us--have just been reading your despatch in the Monitor," she said, in
a most winning tone, "and on behalf of Uncle James I want to thank you, Mr. Churchill."

Churchill looked surprised but doubtful, and did not abate the stiffness of his attitude nor
the severity of his gaze.

"We do feel grateful to you," she continued, in the same winning tone. "There was never a man
more willing than Uncle James to learn, and, coming out of the depths of the West, he knows
that he needs help. And how beautifully you write, Mr. Churchill! It was all put so delicately
that no one could possibly take offence."

It was impossible to resist her manner, the honey of her words, and Churchill, who felt that
she was but giving credit where credit was due, became less stern.

"Do you really like it, Miss Morgan?" he asked, and he permitted himself a smile.

"Oh yes," she replied, "and I noticed that the Monitor alone contained an article of this character,
all about those big men who are watching over Uncle James, and will not let him go wrong. That
is what you correspondents call a beat, isn't it?"

Churchill gave Harley a glance of triumph, but he replied, gravely:

"I believe it is what we call a beat, Miss Morgan."

"And you will continue to help us in the same way, won't you, Mr. Churchill?" she continued.
"You know who those great men are; Mr. Harley, here, I am sure does not, nor does Mr. Blaisdell
nor Mr. Hobart; you alone, as the Monitor says, can come into touch with such important circles,
and you will warn us again and again in the columns of the Monitor when we are about to get
into the wrong path. Oh, it would be a great service, and I know that Uncle James would appreciate
it! You will be with us throughout the campaign, and you will have the chance! Now, promise
me, Mr. Churchill, that you will do it."

Her manner had become most appealing, and her face was slightly flushed. It was not the first
time that Harley realized how handsome she was, and how winning she could be. It was his first
thought, then, what a woman this mountain maid would make, and his second that "King" Plummer
should continue to look upon her as his daughter--she was too young to be his wife.

Nor was Churchill proof against her beauty and her blandishments. He felt suddenly that for
her sake he could overlook some of Mr. Grayson's faults, or at least seek to amend them. It
was not hard to make a promise to a pair of lovely eyes that craved his help.

"Well, Miss Morgan," he said, graciously, "since it is you who ask it, I will do my best. You
know I am not really hostile to Mr. Grayson. The Monitor and I are of his party, and we shall
certainly support him as long as he will let us."

"You are so kind!" she said. "You have seen so much of the world, Mr. Churchill, that you can
help us greatly. Uncle James, as I told you, is always willing to learn, and he will keep a
sharp watch on the Monitor."

"The Monitor, as I need not tell you," said Churchill, "is the chief organ in New York of good
government, and it is never frivolous or inconsequential. I had hoped that what I sent from
Milwaukee would have its effect, and I am glad to see, Miss Morgan, that it has."

Churchill now permitted himself a smile longer and more complacent, and Harley felt a slight
touch of pity that any man should be blinded thus by conceit. And Sylvia did not spare him;
by alternate flattery and appeal she drew him further into the toils, and Harley was surprised
at her skill. She did not seem to him now the girl from Idaho, the child of the mountains and
of massacre, but a woman of variable moods, and all of them attractive, no whit inferior to
her Eastern sisters in the delicate airs and graces that he was wont to associate with feminine
perfection.

As for Churchill, he yielded completely to her spell, not without some condescension and a
memory of his own superiority, but he felt himself willing to comply with her request, particularly
because it involved no sacrifice on his own part. He and the Monitor would certainly keep watch
over Mr. Grayson, and he would never hesitate to write the words of warning when ever he felt
that they were needed.

"Why did you treat him that way?" asked Harley, when Churchill had gone.

"What do you mean by 'that way'?" she asked, and her chin took on a saucy uplift.

"Well, to be plain, why did you make a fool of him?"

"Was my help needed?"

Harley laughed.

"Don't be too hard on Churchill," he said, "he's the creature of circumstance. Besides, you
must not forget that he is going to watch over Mr. Grayson."

Churchill did not join the general group until shortly before the departure for the evening
speech, and then he approached with an undeniable air of hostility and defence, expecting to
be attacked and having in readiness the weapons with which he had assured himself that he could
repel them. Miss Morgan, it is true, had received him well, but she, so he had begun to believe,
was a girl of perception and discrimination, and the fine taste shown by her would not be exhibited
by others. The candidate, surprising him much, received him cordially, though not effusively,
and he was made welcome in similar manner by the others. There was no allusion whatever to
his despatch, but he found himself included in the general gossip, just as if he were one of
a group of good comrades.

Yet Churchill was not wholly pleased. His great stroke seemed to be ignored by all except Miss
Morgan, when they ought to be stirred deeply by it, and he felt a sense of diminished importance.
There should be confusion among them, or at least trepidation. He closely studied the faces
of Mr. Grayson and the others to see if they were merely masking their fire, but no attack
came either then or later.

Thus two or three days passed, and the campaign deepened and popular interest increased. Not
since the eve of the Civil War had there been such complexity and intensity of interests, and
never before had the personal factor been so strong. 

"You mean well," said Balthasar, "you mean well, Fabian, and that's why I do not want resent to
you, that you give me some trailer on web and walk like a madman and me desire to bring some of
which you have no idea. Now you belong again to the strange Those who adore everyone they walk
alone, for keeping a melancholy fools and want him to handle and cure their own way, like the
courtiers paying homage to the prince Hamlet, then the little man, as he assured not to be understood
on the Floetenblasen, was a competent teacher. So I want you, dear Fabian, spare but now, by the way
But you ask sincerely that you look to your precious Fechterei with Rapier and Hieber Some seek
another companion and walk away let me calm my way like it. "" No, no! " Fabian said, laughing,
"you do not escape me, my dear friend - Will not you come with me! the fencing, so I go out with
you into the woods. It is the duty of the faithful Friend, you cheer in your Truebsinn. Come,
dear Balthasar, come only if you then have no other wish. "

He took his friend by the arm and walked briskly away with him.

Balthasar bit in silent rage teeth and persevered in gloomy silence, while Fabian told in
one go funny and amusing. It went under with a lot of silly, whatever wont to happen with the funny
narrative in one go.

When she finally entered the cool shade of the fragrant forest, as the bushes as whispered in
wistful sighs, as the beautiful melodies of rushing creeks, the songs of the Waldgefluegels
fernhin sounded and woke the echoes, of them in the Bergen said, suddenly stood still and
cried Balthasar, as he spread his arms wide, as though devils he tree and shrubbery loving embrace,
"Oh, now I am well again - incredible! well "- Fabian looked at his friend a little amazed at how
someone who can not make head or tail from the other's speech, did not know what to do with it.
As summarized his Balthasar Hand and cried with delight: "Not true, brother, now you also goes
to the heart, now understand thou the blessed mystery of the forest solitude? "-" I do not understand
you entirely, dear brother, " Fabian replied, "but if you feel that you take a walk here in the forest
probably does so I am completely in your opinion. I'm not even like to walk, especially in
good company can lead in the one that rational instructive conversation? - For instance, it is probably
a true Desire to go with our Professor Mosch Terpin about the country. He knows every little plants,
each Blade of grass and white, as it is called by name and which class it belongs, and understands
to wind and weather - a "" Stop, "cried Balthasar," I pray you, hush! - You touch something
that could make me mad gaeb, 'otherwise no consolation for that. The way in which the professor talks
about the nature, tears up my insides. Or rather, I edited it a ghastly Horror when I would see the
madman, the foppish foolishness in king and ruler self-made Strohpueppchen caresses, hoping to Embrace,
the royal bride! His so-called experiments seem to me like a horrible mockery of the divine being,
whose breath breathes us in nature and in our innermost soul, the deepest most sacred Forebodings
upset. Often I tempted him his glasses, his vials, all his to smash stuff, I did not think the fact
that the monkey is not so draining to the fire to play until it is the paws burned. - Look,
Fabian, I am frightened by these feelings, pressed together in my heart Mosch Terpin lectures,
and well I like you, then profound occur and misanthropic than ever. I then felt as though the
houses have zusammenstuerzen my head, an indescribable fear is driving me out of the city. But
here, here, now fulfilled my mind a sweet sleep. mounted on the flowery lawn, I look up into the wide
blue of the sky above me and, over time to the cheering forest pull the golden clouds like beautiful
dreams of a faraway world of blissful joy! - O my Fabian, then rises from my own breast a wonderful
spirit, and I hear ' it as he speaks in mysterious words with the bushes - with the trees, with
the waves the forest of Bach, and I can not to mention the joy, then in sweet melancholy apprehension
my whole being perfused "-" Ah, "said Fabian," why, that's again the old eternal Song of sorrow
and joy and talking trees and Waldbaechen. All your lines are full this type of things that fall
not too bad in the ear and are used with advantage, if you do nothing more behind it investigated.
- But tell me, my most excellent Melancholikus, if you offend Mosch Terpin lectures in fact, so
awful and annoying, I say only, why on earth are you in any hineinlaeufst why you will not miss
a single and then of course always sit silent and motionless with eyes closed like a dreamer
"-" question me, "said Balthasar, lowering his eyes," I wonder why not, dear Friend! - An unknown
force draws me every morning into Mosch Terpin house. I feel ahead of my pains, and yet I can
not resist, a dark a fate tear me away! "-" Ha - ha, "- Fabian laughed out loud," ha ha ha -
as fine - as poetic, as mystical! The unknown force that pulls up in Mosch Terpin house is located
in the dark blue eyes of the beautiful Candida! - That you're in love over head and ears in the
Professor's cute little daughter, who we all know long ago, and so we keep you at your Fantasy,
your foolish beings benefit. With lovers, it is no different. You are up in the first stage
of the disease and have love in late Juenglingsjahren up to all the strange antics comfortable
that we, I and many others, the sky it be blessed! without a large audience watching the end went
through in school. But believe me, my sweet Heart - "

Fabian, meanwhile, had taken his friend Balthasar again by the arm and was soon with him further
advanced. Just now she came out from the thicket on the broad way, the middle led through the forest.
Since saw Fabian, as the distance a horse without a rider in a Approaching cloud of dust enveloped
trotted. - "Hey, hey!" he cried, breaking off in his speech, "Hey, hey, there's a damn nag gone
through and has sold her rider -. That we have to start and look after the rider in the woods,
"and he stood in the middle in his way.

Nearer and nearer came the horse, because it was as if both sides a pair of riding boots in the
air and down on the saddle and dangling something black lively and moving. Just in front of
Fabian rang a long shrill Prrr - Prrr - and that very moment he also flew a pair of riding
boots to the head, and a little strange, black thing dislocated towards him between the legs.
Wall still stood with the big horse and sniffed long neck vorgestrecktem
his tiny little master, which rolled in the sand and finally laboriously
sent on their feet.

The tiny tot's head stuck deep between the high shoulders, He was high with his emergence on
the chest and back, with his short body and its Spinnenbeinchen to look like an apple impaled
on a fork, where you face a grimace cut. So when this strange little monster Fabian saw standing
before him, he broke in a loud laughter from. But the little pressuring the Barettlein he from
the floor taken away, said defiantly in the eye and by Fabian pierced with wild eyes, in rough,
deep hoarse voice, "Is this the right way to Kerepes?" - "Yes, sir!" answered Balthasar mild and
serious, and handed the boy out the boots he had culled. All trouble of kids to put on the boots
was in vain, he put one over intersecting others for a groan and rolled in the sand. Balthasar
put both boots together upright; raised her children in the highest, and gently put him down as
well leaving both feet in the serious and wide sheaths. Very proud beings who propped a hand
in the hand; the other down to the cap, the boy cried: "Gratias, sir!" and went to the horse
out, he took the reins. All attempts to reach the stirrups to climb up or on the big animals,
however, were in vain. Balthasar, always serious and mild was added, and the little rose in the stirrups.
He might well be too strong impetus given have, because in that moment when he sat up, he was on
the other hand very below. "Not so hot, darling Mosje!" Fabian said, adding he once more in
a resounding Laughter broke out. "The devil is your dearest Mosje," the boy screamed so angry as
he patted the sand from their clothes, "I'm Studiosus, and if you likewise are, it is India
ink, giving me laugh like a rabbit foot in the face, and you have to tomorrow Kerepes fight
me! "" thunder, "said Fabian constantly laughing," thunder, the times is an able fellow, an everyday
guy in terms of courage and true Komment. And so he raised his kids, all fidgeting and reluctance
notwithstanding, in the height and set him on the horse, which immediately trotted with his
little master funny whinny. - Fabian held Both sides, he would choke with laughter. - "It is
cruel," said Balthasar, "a People laugh, has neglected the nature of such appalling manner in
which the small riders there. Is he really a student, so you have to beat him, namely, runs's also
against all other academic custom, on guns, because he has not yet Rapier Hieber able to lead.
"-" How serious, "Fabian said," as serious as truebselig you all again take, my dear friend Balthasar.
Nie's occurred to me to laugh at a freak. But tell me, should such a cartilaginous Daeumling sit
on a horse, about whose Neck to look away he can not? Can he put the little feet in such a
wicked long boots? he may just one subsequent Kurtka with a thousand cords and tassels and tassels
may he wear such a strange in velvet beret? may he such an arrogant, defiant nature ? Accept he
may wring from such barbaric hoarse sounds? - Can it all wondering I, without being laughed
at by law as a die-foot rabbit? - But I must enter, I must look with the Rumor, the it will be
if the knight moves in Studiosus on his proud steed! With you but today is even what to do!
- Fare thee well! " - Posthaste Fabian ran back through the forest to the city. - Balthasar
left the open road and lost himself in the most dense shrubbery, as he sank down on a moss covered
seat, so overwhelmed by the bitter feelings. Well 'it might be that he is gracious Candida really
loved her, but he had this love as a deep, tender secret in the depths of his soul for all people,
so shut against themselves. So when Fabian without so secret, so careless about it, said it
was as rough hands down in the insolent arrogance Veil of the holy image down to touch which he dared
not, as must now Holy angry with himself for ever. Yes, Fabian's words seemed to him an abominable
mockery his whole being, his sweetest dreams.

"So," he said in excess of his displeasure, "so deems an amorous fops you love me, Fabian! - For
a fool, which will run in Mosch Terpin lectures, at least an hour passes to be with the beautiful
Candida under one roof, the lonely in the forest roams to meditate on wretched verses to the beloved
and more pathetic to write down spoils of the trees, silly Namenszuege in their smooth bark drastic,
in the presence the girl spared no word brings to market, but only sighs and groans and whining Faces
cuts as if he was suffering from spasms, the withered flowers that she wore on her breast, or
even the glove, which she lost on the bare chest carries - in short, of a thousand puerile Commits
follies! - And therefore, Fabian, you tease me, and therefore probably laugh at me all guys ,
and so I am including the inward world, which I worked, perhaps a subject of derision. - And
the sweet - lovely lovely Candida - "

As he uttered this name, it drove him through the heart like a fiery
dagger! - Oh! - An inner voice whispered to him at the moment too
loudly that he had only just Candida's due in Mosch Terpin House,
arguing that he was making verses to the beloved, to buy their Name
cut into the hardwood, that he remain silent in her presence, sighing,
groaning, that He wilted flowers that she lost, wear on the chest,
thus really in all Fall into folly, as they can advance only him Fabian.
- Only now, he felt it right how unspeakably beautiful but love the
Candida, but at the same time, that is strange enough the purest deepest
love in the outer life to create something foppish, which is perhaps
the deepest Irony attributable to the down nature in all human activity.

He might be right, it was entirely wrong, however, that he began to complain about it much.
Dreams that he otherwise compassed were lost, the voices of the forest sounded to him like scorn
and ridicule, he ran back to Kerepes.

"Mr. Balthasar - mon cher Balthasar" - it called him. He opened his eyes and stood fast magic stand,
for he came to meet the Professor Mosch Terpin, the arm of his daughter Candida led. Candida welcomed
to the Bildsaeule torpid with the gay-friendly impartiality, their own. "Balthasar, Balthasar
mon cher," said the professor, "you are in fact the Diligent, the dearest to me by my listeners! -
O my dear, I see you, it's They love nature with all its wonders, like me, I ate a real fool of
it! - Certainly, again in our copse botanisiert! - What found fruitful? - Well! - Let They
have made our acquaintance. - Visit me - always welcome - Can experiment
together - Have you seen my air pump? - Well! - Mon cher - tomorrow
evening gathering with a friendly circle in my house, which tea sandwich
consume and amuse themselves in casual conversation, will multiply
it by your worthy person - you will meet a very attractive young man,
I especially Recommended - Bon soir, mon cher - Good evening, excellent
- a revoir - goodbye! - You'll come tomorrow in the lecture? - Well
- mon cher, Adieu "- Without Balthazar Reply to wait and walked away
of Professor Mosch Terpin with his daughter.

Balthazar had his dismay not dare to turn over his eyes, but Candida Eyes burned into his chest,
he felt the breath of their breath, and sweet showers by shook his innermost being.

Was taken from him all the resentment, he looked full of sweet delight for Candida until they disappeared
in the Laubgaengen. Then he turned slowly back into the forest to a beautiful dreaming as ever.

Fabian
thought, when he Richtsteig ran through the forest, the quaint little tot the davongetrabt before
him, but probably still anticipate. He was wrong, because the Gebuesch coming out, he saw in
the distance, as yet another handsome rider to the children joined them both in, and how now
rode into the gate of Kerepes. - "Hm!" Fabian said to himself, "the Nutcracker on his big horse,
even before I arrived, I'm still early enough to show that there
will be at his arrival.

Is this really a strange thing Studiosus, we wist after the 'winged Ross' and holds it there with his shrill
Prr - Prr! - And throws forward the riding boots and himself to and does when the guy laughing
wildly and defiantly - now! then the great farce done! -

As Fabian now reached the city, he believed in the streets, on the way to the "winged to meet
Ross' loud laughing faces. The was not so. All people went quiet and seriously over. Equally seriously
walked to the front of the "winged horses" several Academics who gathered there, talking to each
other, up and down. Fabian was convinced that the boy would have to be at least not arrived
here, because he saw a look in the Goal of the inn throwing that just the very mark of the Little
customizable horse to the stable has been carried out. At first his best friends, he sprang now
and asked if herangetrabt not a very strange strange tot was. - He asked the Fabian knew just
a little something like this than any other factors, which Fabian told now, what with him and the
Daeumling to go want to be in a student. They all laughed very, insured, however, that such
a thing as what he was describing, not reached. But probably would be of less than ten minutes,
two very handsome riders on beautiful horses at the inn for the "winged
Ross "has gone."

Sass one of them on the horse, which just led to the stable was? "said Fabian said." However,
"replied one," however. The one on that horse sat was of slightly smaller stature, but of graceful
physique, pleasant Gesichtszuegen and had the most beautiful curly
hair, one can imagine.

He showed himself to be the most excellent Reiter, for he leaped with agility, with a decorum
from his horse down, as the first equerry of our princes. "-" And, "said Fabian," and did not
lose the riding boots and you do not dislocated from the feet?

"-" God forbid, "all unanimously replied," God forbid! - What do you think brother! such an able
rider as the little "- Fabian knew do not even know what to say. Balthasar came down the street.
On the crashed Fabian going on, pulled him close and told how the little guy who met them at the
gate and fallen from his horse, had just arrived here and all for a nice man would be kept
graceful limbs and for the most excellent horsemen. "You see," replied Balthasar seriously
and calmly, "you see, dear brother Fabian, that not all the way over you hapless, neglected
by nature people descend unkind mockery. "-" But you my heaven, "he remembered the word Fabian," here
is not at all of ridicule and unkindness in it, but only on whether a three-foot high Kerlein
that no one radish unlike to mention a nice delicate man "- Balthasar had what stature and
reputation of the small Students concerned, Fabian confirm statement.

The rest assured that the small tab a pretty delicate man, while Fabian was constantly maintained
and Balthasar, they would have never seen an ugly Daeumling. This was retained, and all were
fully Surprise apart.

The late evening fell, the two friends went together to her house. Since drove it to the Balthasar,
even he knew not how, found that the professor he Mosch Terpin met him loaded on the following
evening to himself. "Oh, you happy," said Fabian, "Why, you uebergluecklicher man - as you will
your sweetheart, the pretty maid Candida, see, hear, speak "- Balthasar, again outraged, pulled
away from Fabian and wanted to leave. But he changed his mind, stopped and said, his frustration
with violence niederkaempfend: "You may be right, my dear brother that you love me deems a silly
dude I'm probably really is.


Harley sought sleep as early as possible that night, because he would need all his strength
for the next day, which was to be a record-breaker. A tremendous programme had been mapped
out for Jimmy Grayson, and Harley, although aware of the candidate's great endurance, wondered
how he would ever stand it. They were to cut the state from southeast to northwest, a distance
of more than four hundred miles, and twenty-four speeches were to be made by the way. Fresh
from war, Harley did not remember any more arduous journey, and, like an old campaigner, he
prepared for it as best he could.

It was not yet daylight when they were awakened for the start of the great day. A cold wind
moaned around the hamlet as they ate their breakfast, and then hastened, valise in hand, and
still half asleep, to the train, which stood steam up and ready to be off. They found several
men already on board, and Churchill, when he saw them, uttered the brief word, "Natives!" They
were typical men of the plains, thin, dry, and weather-beaten, and the correspondents at first
paid but little attention to them. It was common enough for some local committeeman to take
along a number of friends for a half-day or so, in order that they might have a chance to gratify
their curiosity and show their admiration for the candidate.

But the attention of Harley was attracted presently by one of the strangers, a smallish man
of middle age, with a weak jaw and a look curiously compounded of eagerness and depression.

The stranger's eye met Harley's, and, encouraged by his friendly look, he crossed the aisle
and spoke to the correspondent.

"You are one of them newspaper fellers that travels with Grayson, ain't you?" he asked.

Harley admitted the charge.

"And you see him every day?" continued the little man, admiringly.

"Many times a day."

"My! My! Jest to think of your comin' away out here to take down what our Jimmy Grayson says,
so them fellers in New York can read it! I'll bet he makes Wall Street shake. I wish I was
like you, mister, and could be right alongside Jimmy Grayson every day for weeks and weeks,
and could hear every word he said while he was poundin' them fellers in Wall Street who are
ruinin' our country. He is the greatest man in the world. Do you reckon I could get to speak
to him and jest tech his hand?"

"Why, certainly," replied Harley. He was moved by the little man's childlike and absolute faith
and his reverence for Jimmy Grayson as a demigod. It was not without pathos, and Harley at
once took him into the next car and introduced him to Grayson, who received him with the natural
cordiality that never deserted him. Plover, the little man said was his name--William Plover,
of Kalapoosa, Choctaw County. He regarded Grayson with awe, and, after the hand-shake, did
not speak. Indeed, he seemed to wish no more, and made himself still smaller in a corner, where
he listened attentively to everything that Grayson said.

He also stood in the front row at each stopping-place, his eyes fixed on Grayson's face while
the latter made his speech. The candidate, by-and-by, began to notice him there. It is often
a habit with those who have to speak much in public to fix the eye on some especially interested
auditor and talk to him directly. It assists in a sort of concentration, and gives the orator
a willing target.

Grayson now spoke straight to Plover, and Harley watched how the little man's emotions, as
shown in his face, reflected in every part the orator's address. There was actual fire in his
eyes, whenever Grayson mentioned that ogre, Wall Street, and tears rose when the speaker depicted
the bad condition of the Western farmer.

"Wouldn't I like to go on to Washington with Jimmy Grayson when he takes charge of the government!"
exclaimed Plover to Harley when this speech was finished--"not to take a hand myself, but jest
to see him make things hum! Won't he make them fat fellers in Wall Street squeal! He'll have
the Robber Barons squirmin' on the griddle pretty quick, an' wheat'll go straight to a dollar
a bushel, sure! I can see it now!"

His exultation and delight lasted all the morning; but in the afternoon the depressed, crushed
feeling which Harley had noticed at first in his look seemed to get control.

Although his interest in Grayson's speeches and his devout admiration did not decrease, Plover's
melancholy grew, and Harley by-and-by learned the cause of it from another man, somewhat similar
in aspect, but larger of figure and stronger of face.

"To tell you the truth, mister," said the man, with the easy freedom of the West, "Billy Plover--and
my cousin he is, twice removed--my name's Sandidge--is runnin' away."

"Running away?" exclaimed Harley, in surprise. "Where's he running to, and what's he running from?"

"Where he's runnin' to, I don't know--California, or Washington, or Oregon, I guess. But I
know mighty well what he's runnin' away from; it's his wife."

"Ah, a family trouble?" said Harley, whose delicacy would have caused him to refrain from asking
more. But the garrulous cousin rambled on.

"It's a trouble, and it ain't a trouble," he continued. "It's the weather and the crops, or
maybe because Billy 'ain't had no weather nor no crops, either. You see, he's lived for the
last ten years on a quarter-section out near Kalapoosa, with his wife, Susan, a good woman
and a terrible hard worker, but the rain's been mighty light for three seasons, and Billy's
wheat has failed every time. It's kinder got on his temper, and, as they 'ain't got any children
to take care of, Billy he's been takin' to politics. Got an idea that he can speak, though
he can't, worth shucks, and thinks he's got a mission to whack Wall Street, though I ain't
sure but what Wall Street don't deserve it. Susan says he ain't got any business in politics,
that he ought to leave that to better men, an' stay an' wrastle with the ground and the weather.
So that made them take to spattin'."

"And the upshot?"

"Waal, the upshot was that Billy said he could stand it no longer. So last night he raked up
half the spare cash, leavin' the rest and the farm and stock to Susan, an' he loped out. But
first he said he had to hear Jimmy Grayson, who is mighty nigh a whole team of prophets to
him, and, as Jimmy's goin' west, right on his way, he's come along. But to-night, at Jimmy's
last stoppin'-place, he leaves us and takes a train straight to the coast. I'm sorry, because
if Susan had time to see him and talk it over--you see, she's the man of the two--the whole
thing would blow over, and they'd be back on the farm, workin' hard, and with good times ahead."

Harley was moved by this pathetic little tragedy of the plains, the result of loneliness and
hard times preying upon the tempers of two people. "Poor devil!" he thought. "It's as his cousin
says; if Susan could only be face to face with him for five minutes, he'd drop his foolish
idea of running away and go home."

Then of that thought was born unto him a great idea, and he immediately hunted up the cousin again.

"Is Kalapoosa a station on the telegraph line?" he asked.

"Oh yes."

"Would a telegram to that point be delivered to the Plover farm?"

"Yes. Why, what's up?"

"Nothing; I just wanted to know. Now, can you tell me what time to-night, after our arrival,
a man may take a train for the coast from Weeping Water, our last stop?"

"We're due at Weepin' Water," replied the cousin, "at eleven to-night, but I cal'late it'll
be nigher twelve when we strike the town. You see, this is a special train, runnin' on any
old time, an' it's liable now and then to get laid out a half an hour or more. But, anyhow,
we ought to beat the Denver Express, which is due at twelve-thirty in the mornin', an' stops
ten minutes at the water-tank. The theologians but screamed at me soon for a sectarian out,
arguing, just if I have to pay to the sect or the Aermelianer Schoessianer were but agreed that
both sects call extremely dangerous, as both complete freedom of the will as couched and dared to
think what they wanted. Diploma sufferers were me for a contemptible rabble rousers. They claimed
that I wanted by my long skirt Scholars Esse Arouse dissatisfaction among the people and make it
rebellious against the government belong, at all is a secret bond, whose character is a short sleeve.
For a long time to perform them here and there traces of the short sleeves, to fear the same
as the Jesuits, and even more, as they tried to introduce everywhere the harmful poetry every state,
and the Infallibility of the princes doubted. Short! - The thing was more serious and more serious,
to me quoted the rector left. I saw my first accident, when I put on a coat, appeared So in the
vest. Angry about it was the man he thought I wanted to mock him, and drove off on me that I
should be submitted within eight days in a well for respectable Rock appear to him, otherwise
it without mercy all the play-offs would say about me. - Today is the deadline to the end!
- Oh Poor me! - O cursed Alpanus Prosper! "-

"Stop," cried Balthasar, "a halt, my friend Fabian narrower, not dear to my dear uncle, who gave
me an estate. Also with you, he says it's not even evil so However, he, I must confess, his curiosity,
which test you meet him punished too hard added. - But I get help! - Doescher he sends you this,
which all end your suffering should. "

Thus Balthasar drew the little turtles Doescher, which he obtained from Prosper Alpanus, from his
pocket and handed it to the desolate Fabian.

"What," said the latter, "what do I want to help because the stupid Quark? How can a small Turtle
Doescher influence the design of my skirts? "" I do not know " Balthasar said, "but my dear uncle
can not and will not deceive me, I have the fullest confidence in him, so just open the box, rather
Fabian, we want to see what is mentioned.

"

Fabian did - and out of the can is a wonderfully made black tails
flowed from the finest Cloth produced.

Both Fabian and Balthasar, could be the loud exclamation of astonishment highest not help.

"Ha, I understand you," Balthasar cried enthusiastically, "ha, I understand you, my Prosper, my
Above uncle! This skirt will fit, will solve all the magic. "-

Fabian put the coat easily, and dreamed of what Balthasar, arrived really. "The wonderful Dress
the Fabian sat, as he had never sat him one, and slide the sleeve
on extension Scholars of the Fair was not the question.

Quite beside himself with joy, Fabian decided now once in his new well-fitting skirt Rector added
to run and to get the same thing.

Balthasar now told his friend Fabian in detail, how things go with Prosper Alpanus, and how this
gave him the means of leverage, the incurable evils of misshapen Daeumling to make an end. Fabian, who
was a very different, because it all skepticism completely abandoned,
praised Prosper high generosity beyond measure and offered in cinnabar
to provide a helping hand disenchantment.

The moment Balthasar saw out the window his friend, the Referendarius Pulcher, who sneak across
truebsinnig around the corner wanted.

Fabian von Balthasar's behest to put his head out the window and waved and called out Referendarius
to, but he might just come up the same.

Pulcher and entered, he called the same: "What did you do for a beautiful gown, my dear Fabian!
"He said, however, Balthasar will explain everything to him, and ran for president.

Now when Balthasar tells in detail all the Referendarius what happened, said this. "Especially
at the time it is now that the hideous monster is made dead.

Know that today he celebrates his solemn engagement to Candida, that the vain Mosch Terpin
a big party there, which he himself invited the princes. Especially for this festival we want
penetrate into the professor's house and attacked the boy. At the hall's lights will not lacking
the instantaneous burning of the hostile hair. "

Yet many had spoken to friends and arranged to meet one another, as occurred with Fabian joy shiny
face.

"The power," he said, "the power of rock, which flowed from the box turtle, has proved its worth
glorious. As soon as I entered at the Rector, he smiled contentedly. 'Ha' talking he at me,
'ha! - I can see, my dear Fabian, that they've come back from your strange aberration! - Well!
Feuerkoepfe how you can be easily carried away to extremes! - For religious enthusiasm I have never
held your start - more misunderstood Patriotism - Hang to extraordinary, based on the example of
the heroes of antiquity. - Yes, I will apply such a beautiful, well-fitting skirt! - Alternative
to the state, health the world if those who have generous Juengling skirts, with matching sleeves
and such Scholars food. Stay true to Fabian, stay true to such virtue, such a brave sense it
sprang Heldengroesse true! " - The principal hugged by his bright tears came to my eyes. Even
I do not know how I came to the little box turtles, out of the rock arose, and which I had put into
his pocket to pull out.

'Please! " said the rector, as he pointed his thumb and index finger together. Without knowing whether
well-tobacco therein mentioned, I worked on the can. The rector reach in and grab, snuff, took
my Hand presses, they are strong, tears running down his cheeks, he said tiefgeruehrt: 'Men
Youth! - A nice pinch! - All is forgiven and forgotten, dine with me today noon! " - You see friends,
all my suffering is over, and we manage today, as it otherwise not be expected, the disenchantment
of cinnabar, so you too are happy now! " -

In the lighted room with a hundred candles stood in the little vermilion scarlet embroidered
Dress, the large order of gruengefleckten Tigers looked around a bit with twenty buttons, sword at
the page, plumed hat under his arm. Next to him, the lovely bride adorned Candida, in all
Grace and radiant youth. Cinnabar had taken her hand, which he pressed to his mouth sometimes while
illegally grinned and smiled. And each time, then flew over a higher red Candida's cheeks, and
she looked at the little ones with the most intimate expression of love. This was as well be
considered quite grayish, and only the blindness in the cinnabar
charm all said, was responsible for the fact that you do not angry
about Candida's hopeless entanglement, the small Witch guy grabbed
and threw into the fire.

Around the pair in a circle at a respectful distance the company had collected. Only Fuerst
barsanuphe stood by Candida and struggled to throw around meaningful gracious looks, however,
no one slept on much. Everything had only eye for the bridal couple and go to vermilion lips, now
and then some unintelligible words purred, where each time a faint Oh! the highest admiration,
which the company was uttered.

It was to the effect that the engagement rings should be replaced. Mosch Terpin entered the Circle with
a salver, on which sparkled the rings. He cleared his throat - cinnabar stood on tiptoe as high
as possible, he almost gave the bride at the elbow. - Everything was in the most intense expectation
- there can suddenly hear strange voices the door of the room jumps up, Balthasar penetrates,
with his Pulcher - Fabian! - Interrupt through the circle - "What
is it, what do the foreigners?" calls mixed up. -

Fuerst barsanuphe
horrified screams: "rebellion - rebellion - Awake!" and jumps behind
the fireplace screen. - Mosch Terpin recognizes the Balthasar, who
advanced close to the vermilion, and cries: "Lord Studiosus! - Are
you mad - you are mad? - As you may want to here penetrate the engagement!
- People - Society - servant, the ruffian throw the door out!

"-

But without in the least to return to anything, has been Prosper Balthasar lorgnette pulled and directed
by the same view of the solid cinnabar head. As the electrical Beam taken from cinnabar joins a
shrill cry of cats that the whole room echoed. Candida faints into a chair, dusted the tightly
closed circle of the Company apart. - Clear from Balthazar's eyes is the feuerfarbglaenzende
hair streak, he spring on cinnabar - sums him, kicking his little
legs and struggles with himself and scratching and bites.

"All wrapped up - tackled!" Balthasar calls, as Fabian and Pulcher take the little that he not
to stir and move can, and Balthasar snugly and gently, the red Hair, torn from her head down
with a jerk jumps to the fireplace, she threw into the fire, they rattle on, it takes a stunning
blow, as all awake from the dream. - There is the small tin, which is laboriously gathered up
from the earth, and scolds and schmaelt and orders, the cheeky one should Ruhestoerer that on
the sacred person of the first Minister in the state out of stock, immediately pack up and throw
into the deepest prison! But a asks the other: "Where I get all of a sudden the little guy somersaults
- what will? the little monster "- and how the Daeumling rages ever on and with the presser foot
to the floor stamps and always calls in between, "I am the Minister of cinnabar - I am the
Minister cinnabar - Gruengefleckte the Tiger with twenty buttons "because everything breaks into a
great laughter from. They surrounded the boy, the men pick it up and submit to him as a catch
ball; an order button after another he jumps from his body - he loses his hat - the sword, the
Shoes. - Fuerst barsanuphe comes out from behind the fireplace screen and enters into the midst
of the Tumult. As the boy screams, "Fuerst barsanuphe - Grace - save your Minister - Your
favorite! - Help there - Help there - the state is in danger - the gruengefleckte Tiger - Hurt
- hurt "- The prince takes a grim view of the Little and then proceeds rapidly Forward to the
door. Mosch Terpin gets in the way he holds, pulls him into the Area and speaks with angry flashing
eyes: "You presume to your princes, your father of his country to want to play for a stupid comedy?
- If you invite me to your daughter's engagement with my worthy Minister cinnabar, and instead of my
minister I find this a disgusting Monster that you put in shiny clothes? - Lord, you know that this is a treasonable
Fun is that I would strictly punish, if you were not a very silly person who belongs in the madhouse.
- I horrified by the Office as Director General of natural Affairs me and everything else students will
not stand in my basement! - Adieu "!

Then he stormed.

But Mosch Terpin crashed los trembling with anger at the boy, grabbed him in the long shaggy hair
and ran with him down to the window: "Down with you," he shouted,
"down with you, disgraceful unholy monstrosity that made me so shamefully
deceived me about everything Happiness of life has brought "

He wanted the kids hinabstuerzen through the open window, but the overseer of the zoological Cabinet,
which also jumped present, added with lightning speed, summed up the kids and snatched Mosch Terpin
his fists. "Stop," said the warden, "you think, Professor, Do not lay hands on the noblest property.
It's not a monster, it is the Mycetes Beelzebub, Beelzebub Simia, who escaped from the Museo
"" Simia Beelzebub - Simia Beelzebub ". Resounded it from all sides in laughter. But no sooner
had the guard of local on the arm and made him quite often when he
exclaimed angrily: "What I see - that! is not so Simia Beelzebub,
this is a vile ugly roots man!

Ugh! - Pooh "-

And with that he threw the little ones in the middle of the room.

In the loud Hohngelaechter society the boy ran away squealing and growling down the stairs by the door
- away, away to his house without him noticed one of his servants.

Meanwhile, that all this came to pass in the hall to Balthasar had
removed in the Cabinet, where, as he perceived, carried forward the
impotent Candida.

He threw himself at her feet, pressed her hands to his lips, called her with the sweetest
name. She awoke at last with a deep sigh, and when she saw the Balthasar, as they cried in delight:

"Are
you finally - finally here, my dear Balthasar Oh, I'm almost gone!
with longing and pain of love! - And I always sounded the notes of
the nightingale, of which touched, the purple rose springs from the
heart's blood!

"-

Now they told everything, forgetting everything around him, like a bad dream abominable they
were involved, as it happened, much like a ugly monster down to her heart, they have to give
her love, because they otherwise could. The monster had to adjusted knew he looked like Balthazar,
and if they fairly lively on Balthasar thought they had indeed known
that the fiend not Balthasar, but then again it is their incomprehensible
way been when they have to love the monster, just to Balthazar's sake.

Balthasar you clear up so much as it could happen without their already excited sense to confuse
completely. Then followed, as happened to no other people in love usually, a thousand insurance,
a thousand vows of eternal love and fidelity.

And compassed and they expressed themselves with the fervor of the most intimate tenderness
of the breast and were entirely surrounded by all the joy, delight
of all of the highest heaven.

Mosch Terpin entered, haenderingend and lamenting with him came Pulcher and Fabian, the constantly,
but in vain comforted her.

"No," said Mosch Terpin, "no, I'm a totally beaten man - no more General the natural thing in
the state. - No more studying in the princely cellars - the Favor
of princes - I thought to be the knight gruengefleckten Tigers, at
least with five buttons. - All in! - What is only seconds.

Excellency the worthy Minister cinnabar to say when he hears that I have a vile monster, the
cauda prehensili Simia Beelzebub, or what else I know, for him to be! - O God, and his hatred
is weighing on me! - Alikante! - Alikante! -

"But, my dear Professor," comforted the friends - "my dear General, you remember but only that there
is no Minister is cinnabar more! - You have absolutely not out of print, the formless tot has by
virtue of the magic gift to him by the fairy Rosabelverde receive,
as well deceived, as all of us "! -

Now, Balthasar told to go as
everything from the beginning.

The professor listened and listened, Balthasar ended up, he cried: "Wake I - dreaming! I - Witch -
Wizard - fairy - magic Mirrors - sympathy - should I believe in this nonsense "-

"Oh dear sir," interrupted Fabian, "They would have only worn a skirt for a while with short sleeves
and long train, like me, you would have to believe everything that It would be a pleasure! "-

"Yes,"
said Mosch Terpin, "yes, it's all so - yes - Last Day of monster has deceived me - I am no
longer on their feet - I float to the ceiling-Prosper Alpanus me
away ab - I ride on a summer bird - I let the hair of Fee Rosabelverde
- From the Stiftsfraeulein Rose Schoen, Minister and I will! - Koenig
- Kaiser!

"-

And with that he jumped around the room and screamed and juchzte that for all his intelligence were
afraid, until he sank into a chair quite exhausted. As he approached, and Candida Balthasar.
They spoke of how they are so intimate, so about all loved how they did not could live without
each other, and that was very sad to hear why Mosch Terpin also really
cried.

"Everything," he said sobbing, "all you want, kids! - You get married, loves you - hungry together,
because I give a penny of Candida with "-

What concerned the starving, Balthasar said, smiling, he hoped the professor tomorrow to convince
that it probably can never be said, as his uncle Prosper Alpanus adequately provided for him.

"The
Sun," said Matt, the professor, "do, my dear son, if you can, and
indeed tomorrow, for I shall not fall into madness, I will not break
the head, I have to go immediately to bed!

"-

He did this really on the spot.

The car of the Minister before the cinnabar had almost all night in vain Mosch Terpin Kept home.
Once over the other was assured the Jaeger, Se. Excellence would have to have long since left the
company, but said the other hand, it was quite impossible, da Se. Excellence but probably would not have
run in the rain storm walking home. And when finally extinguished all the lights and the doors
were locked, had to Jaeger While continuing with the empty wagons at the house of the minister but
he woke once the valet and asked if come for heaven's sake, and in what type of home minister.
"Se. Excellency," the valet replied quietly to the Jaeger's ear, "Se. Excellence yesterday arrived
in late twilight, that's certainly - lie in bed and sleep. - But! - Oh my good hunter! - How
- how! - I will tell you everything - but Siegel on the mouth - I am a lost man if Se. Excellence
to know that I was on the dark hallway! - I come to my service, for Se. Excellence, although of
less Have stature, but extremely much wildness, ancient centering is easy to know yourself
not in anger, do not have yesterday a vile mouse, by His Excellency bedroom jump to the venture,
running with the bare sword drawn through and through. - Well! - Also in the twilight I take up
my mantle and I will very gently hinueberschleichen the Weinstuebchen to a game of Tric-Trac,
because schurrt and shuffled me something on the stairs meet and come to me on the dark corridor
between the legs and pointed to the SUGGESTS Ground and raises a shrill cry of cats and then
grunts as - oh, God - Jaeger! - Hold The mouth, noble man, or I'm gone! - Come a little closer
- and then grunts, to grunt as our gracious excellence cares if the cook or frittered the Kaelberkeule
he is otherwise in the state which is not right.

"

The last word was spoken the valet to the police with closed doors in his ear. The Jaeger went
back, cut a questionable face and cried: "Is it possible!" -

"Yes,"
continued the valet, "it was undoubtedly our gracious Sir, what to
me the corridor through the legs went.
He noticed, too, the new charm that she had in addition to the old, a softening of manner,
a slight appeal that she made, without detracting in any wise from the impression of strength
and self-reliance that she gave.

"Where did you leave 'King' Plummer?" he asked, unguardedly.

"In Idaho," she replied, with sudden gravity. "He is well, and I believe that he is happy.
He is umpiring a great quarrel between the cattlemen and the sheepmen, or, rather, he is compelling
both to listen to him and to agree to a compromise that he has suggested. So he is really enjoying
himself. You do not know the delight that he takes in the handling of large and rather rough
affairs."

"I can readily guess it; he seems to have been made for them."

But she said no more of "King" Plummer, quickly turning the talk to the campaign, and showing
at once that she had followed every phase of it with the closest and most anxious attention.
Mrs. Grayson had walked on a little and was talking to her husband, but she glanced back and
saw what she had expected. She and her husband turned presently in their walk, and she said,
looking significantly at Harley and Miss Morgan:

"It is a great pleasure to Sylvia to be with your party again."

There was such a curious inflection to her voice that the candidate exclaimed, "Why, what do
you mean, Anna?" and she merely replied, "Oh, nothing!" which meant everything. The candidate,
understanding, looked more attentively, and his eyes contracted a little, as if he were not
wholly pleased at what he saw.

"It's a free world," he said, "but I am glad that 'King' Plummer will be with us again in a
few days."

But his wife, able to see further than he, merely looked thoughtful and did not reply.

Harley's solitary talk with Miss Morgan was brief; it could not be anything else under the
circumstances; Hobart, with all sail set, bore down upon them.

"Come! Come, Harley!" he cried, with the perfect frankness that usually distinguished him,
"we don't permit any selfish monopolists here. We are all cast away on a desert island, so
to speak, and there are a lot of us men and only two women, one of whom is mortgaged!"

Then he was welcoming Miss Morgan in florid style; and there, too, was the ancient beau, Tremaine,
displaying all his little arts of elegance and despising Hobart's obvious methods; and Blaisdell,
and all the others, forming a court about her and giving her an attention which could not fail
to please her and bring a deeper red to her cheeks and a brighter flash to her eyes. It seemed
to Mrs. Grayson, looking on, that the girl had been hungry for something which she had now
found, and in finding which she was happy, and, despite her sense of loyalty, she felt a glow
of sympathy. Then in hineinzulugen the
shadowy grave chapels with the bright shining altars, before which a weathered old mother for
the second day is committed to her the whole unknown deceased Our Fathers and the well-paid
Gegrüßetseistdu surviving family members understand to make. And out of the shadow of light and
shine sneaks an unconscious, living Joy in the faces of the crowd, which contrasts strangely of
the few sore dark People who are shy and black hindrücken wayside. In a blind impatience push
Here and there a show Joyful to the side and thinks behind them, dead birds, which do for here?

At
the Seventh cemetery is there something free and lonely. There is more room here, for only a Part
of the fenced land is filled with graves and tombs, is still innocent,
healthy, gutgewässerter ground, the more you look at the previous
harvest and from his idle power has become helplessly witnessed a
lush, wild, senseless garden.

This was a good neighborhood for the poor Zdenko Wanka, still the series of tombs completed
towards the left wall, as no one dared to die since then in the great abyss full City. The
two lonely women, mother and daughter rendered, he now has the second Society days, and the
old Rosalka came from, and told the deaf and pain of the two by the grandeur and splendor
of other tombs. That the Hills of Zdenko not quite festive wanted to be, despite the many
Levkoien, asters and forget-me came, so that by all jewelry somewhere always permeated the damp,
new earth, in which the grass seed have not had had time to work. Seemed a little shy to pull
the fresh grave - As one who is the first time in a society, the nature and decency, he has not
knows. The two guests were not quite the language for communicating with the lost, and then let
the dead Zdenko first holiday have been very turbid. Mrs. Josephine wept no more. She sat
on one of Holzbänkchen, as found at the foot of the graves, and had certainly forgotten that fell
in. the strange, damp autumn evening ever closer to her. The daughter, who looked in the dress of
black cashmere even smaller and paler as otherwise, observed, without her knowing it, the scene
that happened over a grave. A skinny, haggard man had just a little blue light and a bouquet
of lilies of the valley on the site set out, and it was a half-hearted and touching tenderness
in his movement been something of the awkward grace of young people in love. But as he once again
stood upright and his crying, three year old child on the black Sunday coat blended pressed as hard
and broke the gesture from a quivering, hopeless nostalgia was beginning to . Bend He fought
with her and tried again and again the eyes of the child, perhaps to know, as the mother's eyes
were, or order it to get a little glory and hope. But the child was crying ...

As a group of black-clad young men pushed into the National Rock, Cz Amara, Luisa and between those
two parent ones. They were mostly students, friends and comrades the Wanka, which on this day with
political ovations and songs in the graves of their Great and his comrades came to them about
the law of equality, which is silent in this Walls there was to rise. The resistance to the start
of each year anew by the conservative authorities was opposed, was to blame for these demonstrations
that a all the warmth loud boastful character and got the youthful
impetuosity did not want to settle for the quiet laying down his blossoming
love.

Shall order the even now the series in order to sing at the grave of a sharp Wankas fight songs, which
the should remind all reconciled to the days of the storm.
 A cloud of dust arose, and behind it quickly came a great herd of
cattle, driven with much shouting and galloping of horses by a half-dozen cowboys. The herd
was passing to the south a few hundred yards from the station, but Sylvia, thoroughly used
to such sights, was not interested. Not so some of the others who went out to see, and among
them was "King" Plummer, who began at once to calculate the number of cattle, their value,
and how far they had come, all of which he did with great shrewdness.

The "King's" absorption in this congenial occupation was increased when he recognized the leader
of the cowboys as an old friend and former associate in Idaho and Montana, with whom he could
exchange much interesting news. Borrowing a horse from one of the men, he rode on with them
for a mile or two.

Mrs. Grayson had seen "King" Plummer leave the group about Sylvia, and she marked it with a
disapproving eye. She would have spoken to him then, but she had no chance, and she watched
him until he borrowed the horse and rode on with the cowboys. Then she looked the other way
and saw two figures walking up and down the station platform. They were Sylvia and Harley,
engrossed in talk and caring not at all for the passage of the herd. The two brown heads were
not far apart, and Mrs. Grayson was near enough to see that Sylvia's color was beautiful.

The candidate's wife was annoyed, and, like any other good woman, she was ready to vent her
annoyance on somebody. She walked out a little from the station, and presently she met "King"
Plummer coming back. He dismounted, returned the horse to its owner, and approached her, the
sparkle of enthusiasm in his eyes lighting up his brown face.

"That was a pleasant surprise, Mrs. Grayson," he exclaimed. "The leader of those boys was Bill
Ascott, whom I've known twenty years, an' he's brought those cattle so cleverly all the way
from Montana that they are in as good condition now as they were the day they started. And
I had a fine gallop with them, too."

He had more to say, but he stopped when he noticed her deeply frowning face.

"What is wrong, Mrs. Grayson?" he asked, in apprehension.

"Oh, you had a fine gallop, did you!" she said, in a tone of biting irony. "I am glad of it.
Mr. William Plummer ought to have his gallop, under any circumstances!"

He stared at her in increasing amazement.

"I don't know that I'm counted a dull man, but you've got me now, Mrs. Grayson."

She pointed to the station platform, where the two brown heads were still not far apart.

"Without a word you left the woman that you are going to marry to look at a lot of cattle."

"Why, Sylvia is only a child, an' we've been used to each other for years. She understands."

"Yes, she will understand, or she isn't a woman," said Mrs. Grayson, and if possible the biting
irony of her tone increased. "You will see, too, Mr. William Plummer, that one man at least
did not neglect her for the sake of some dusty cattle."

Mr. Plummer stared again at the pair on the platform, and a mingled look of pain and apprehension
came into his eyes.

"You surely can't mean anything of that kind! Why, little Sylvia has promised--"

"All things are possible, Mr. Plummer. My husband is a lawyer, and I have heard him quote often
a maxim of the law which runs something like this, 'He must keep who can.'"

She turned away and would not have another word to say to him then, leaving Mr. Plummer in
much perplexity and trouble.

Mrs. Grayson herself was in a similar perplexity and trouble throughout the day. Her doubts
about the letter she had written to "King" Plummer increased. Perhaps it would have been wiser
to let affairs take their own course. The sight of the two brown heads and the two young faces
on the station platform had made her very thoughtful, and she drew comparisons with "King"
Plummer; there might be days in autumn which resembled those of spring, but it was only a fleeting
resemblance, because autumn was itself, with its own coloring, its own fruits, and its own
days, and nothing could turn it into spring. "I will not meddle again," she resolved, and then
her mind was taken off the matter by an incident in her husband's progress. In Nebraska the
men left the train for a few days, travelling by carriage, and here occurred the event which
created a great stir in its time.

IX

JIMMY GRAYSON'S SPELL

A night, after a beautiful, brown October day, came on dark and rainy, with fierce winds off
the Rocky Mountains; and Harley, who was in the first carriage with the candidate, could barely
see the heads of the horses, gently rising and falling as they splashed through the mud. Behind
him he heard faintly the sound of wheels amid the wind and rain, and he knew that the other
correspondents and the politicians, who always hung on the trail of Jimmy Grayson, shifting
according to locality, were following their leader in single file.

Mrs. Grayson and Sylvia had remained on the special car, and expected to join them on the following
day, although Sylvia was quite prepared to take the carriage journey across the country and
dare all the risks of the darkness and possible bad weather. Indeed, with the fine spirit of
the West and her own natural high courage, she wanted to go, saying that she could stand as
much as a man, and only Mrs. Grayson's refusal to accompany her and the consequent lack of
a chaperone compelled her to abandon the idea. Now Harley and Mr. Grayson were very glad that
she was not out in the storm.

Although the hood of the carriage was down and the collar of Harley's heavy coat was turned
up to his ears, the cold rain, lashed by the wind, struck him in the face now and then.

"You don't do anything by halves out here on these Western plains," he said.

"No," replied Jimmy Grayson, "we don't deal in disguises; when we're hot we're hot, and when
we're cold we're cold. Now, after a perfect day, we're having the wildest kind of a night.
It's our way."

It was then ten o'clock, and they had expected to reach Speedwell at midnight, crossing the
Platte River on the big wooden bridge; but the rain, the darkness, and the singularly sticky
quality of the black Nebraska mud would certainly delay them until one o'clock in the morning,
and possibly much later. It was not a cheerful prospect for tired and sleepy men.

"Mr. Grayson," said Harley, "without seeking to discredit you, I wish I had gone to another
war instead of coming out here with you. That would have been less wearing."

The candidate laughed.

"But you are seeing the West as few men from New York ever see it," he said.

The driver turned, and a little stream of water ran off his hat-brim into Harley's face.

"It's the wind that holds us back, Mr. Grayson," he said; "if we leave the road and cut across
the prairie on the hard ground it will save at least an hour."

"By all means, turn out at once," said the candidate, "and the others will follow."

"Wise driver; considerate man!" remarked Harley.

There was marked relief the moment the wheels of the carriage struck the brown grass. They
rolled easily once more, and the off horse, lifting up his head, neighed cheerfully.

"It means midnight, and not later, Harley," said the candidate, in a reassuring tone.

Harley leaned back in his seat, and trusted all now to the wise and considerate driver who
had proposed such a plan. The night was just as black as a hat, and the wind and rain moaned
over the bleak and lonesome plains. They were far out in Nebraska, and, although they were
near the Platte River, it was one of the most thinly inhabited sections of the state. They
had not seen a light since leaving the last speaking-place at sundown. Harley wondered at the
courage of the pioneers who crossed the great plains amid such a vast loneliness. He and the
candidate were tired, and soon ceased to talk. The driver confined his attention to his business.
Harley fell into a doze, from which he was awakened after a while by the sudden stoppage of
the carriage. The candidate awoke at the same time. The rain had decreased, there was a partial
moonlight, and the driver was turning upon them a shamefaced countenance.

"What's the matter?" asked the candidate. 

Barely twenty - ran thirty steps, he was aware of the Referendarius Pulcher, under the a large tree
and stopped with himmelwaerts eyes on the horizon that is said, "No! - No longer tolerate this
insult! - All hope of life is gone! - Any views directed only to the grave - Farewell - Live
- World - Hope - Beloved ". -

And it tore the desperate Referendarius a pistol from his bosom and
pressuring it adheres to the forehead.

Balthasar crashed with lightning speed towards him, he threw the gun away from the hand and cried: "Pulcher
for God's sake, what you is what you do!"

The Referendarius could not come for several minutes to himself. He was half-pass out Lower
down on the grass; Balthasar had sat down and said to him words of comfort as he only could,
without knowing the cause of Pulcher despair.

A hundred times Balthasar had asked what happened to the Referendarius terrible because the the
black thoughts of suicide made active in it. Pulcher finally sighed deeply and began: "You
know, dear friend Balthasar, my difficult situation, you know how I put all my hope in the
secret place of the travel agents, which the minister of Foreign Affairs disclosed; you know with what
zeal with which I Fleiss prepared me for this. I submitted my elaborations, which, as I said
to my Joy learned to get the most applause of the minister. presented with what confidence
I am this morning to the oral test! - I found the room a small, ill-made Guy you'll probably know
under the name of the Lord cinnabar. The Legation, where the Testing was transferred to me in a
friendly and told me to the same place, the I wish you to receive, had also reported Mr. cinnabar,
he would examine both of us so. Then he whispered to me softly in his ear: 'You have nothing to
fear from your competitors, best Referendarius, the work that brought the little tin are pathetic!
" The Testing started, no question of the Council, I left unanswered. Vermilion knew nothing,
absolutely nothing, instead of The answer to snoring and he squawks fainter ROYAL stuff that no
one understood was, even, as he struggled with the unruly legs, a couple of times from the high chair
down, so that I had to lift him up again. I trembled with delight the heart, the friendly glances,
the Council of the boy tossed, I thought was the most bitter irony. - The test was terminated.
Who can describe my shock, I felt as if a sudden flash me fathoms deep hineinschluege into the ground,
when the Council embraced the boy, said to him: 'Wonderful man! - Which Knowledge - which mind
- which ingenuity '! - Then to me: 'You have deceived me very much, Mr. Pulcher Referendarius
- you know nothing! And - take it amiss, the way you have encouraged for confirmation like, runs
against all custom, against all Decency! - They could not even get on the chair, you were so down,
and Mr. She had to raise cinnabar. People have to be diplomatic fine sober and thoughtful.
- Goodbye, Mr. Referendarius'! - I still did everything for a fantastic farce. I dared it, I
went to the minister. He let out tell me how I can under stand me, it to trouble even with
my visit, after the way I proved myself in the class - he knew it all! The post, to which I had urged,
already awarded to Mr cinnabar! - So me some infernal power has stolen all hope, and I will willingly
a life To sacrifice the fallen victim to the dark fate! Leave me!

"-

"Never," said Balthasar, "only listen to me!"

He then told all he knew of cinnabar since its first appearance in front of goal of Kerepes; how
he fared with the little ones in Mosch Terpin home, he just now heard by Vincenzo Sbiocca. "It is
only too certain," he then said, "that all begin the fatal abortion at some mystery lies at the
foundation, and believe me, friend Pulcher, - is some infernal magic
in the game, it all depends on him with fixed Sense to oppose, the
victory is certain, if only the courage found. - So do not despair,
not too rapid decision.

Let us together the little guy going to get rid of witches! -

"Witches guy," said the Referendarius enthusiastically, "yes witch guy, a very witch cursed
guy is the little man, that's for sure! - But Brother Balthazar, which is us because we are
in a dream? - Witchcraft - witchcraft - is it will not be over for a long time? Did they not Many
years ago, Fuerst Paphnutius the Great introduced the Enlightenment and everything nice Mischief,
all incomprehensible banished from the country, and still is like cursing Contraband have crept
in? - Weather! we would have the same view of the police and the toll-officiants! - But no, no
- only the madness of the people or, as I almost 'm afraid immense corruption is to blame for
our misfortune. - The tin is cursed be rich beyond measure. He was recently in front of the
coin, and as the people showed their fingers after him, shouting:
'Look at the pretty little dad! - Much of them is the bare gold, inside
there is minted '"

"Still," said Balthasar, quiet, "friend Referendarius, with the gold it will force the monster not,
there is something else behind it! - True, that Fuerst Paphnutius introduced the Enlightenment
to use and profit of his people, his descendants, but some wonderful, incomprehensible is back but
still remained. I mean, you have even the house for some pretty miraculous was withheld. For example,
are still growing from lumpichten Samenkoernern the highest, most glorious Trees, even the most
diverse fruits and cereals, which we fill our body. Allows you surely not even the colorful flowers,
the insects on their leaves and wings the bright color to wear even the allerverwunderlichsten graffiti,
of which No one knows whether it is oil, gouache or watercolor style, and no devil by writing
master can read the neat handwriting, let alone writing out! Hoho! Referendarius, I tell you,
it goes in my mind sometimes before bizarre! - I put away the whistle and stride about the room and
down, and a strange voice whispers that I was itself a miracle the magician in microcosm handle
me and drive me to all sorts of great painting! - But Referendarius, then I run away and look
into the nature and understand it all, what the flowers, the waters
speak to me and embraces me blessed heavenly joy! -

"You speak in
a fever," said Pulcher, but Balthasar, without looking at him, stretched
out Arms as detected by fervent desire for distant lands.

"Listen a moment," said Balthasar, "listen, but only o Referendarius what heavenly music in
the noise of the evening breeze sounds in the woods! - Do you hear well, as the source strength
raise their voice? as the bushes, the flowers come up with lovely voices "? -

The Referendarius held the ear to hear out the music that spoke of
Balthazar.

"In Indeed, "he then began," in fact, blow it sounds through the forest, the most graceful, most
glorious are, what I heard in my life and I deeply penetrate into the soul. But it is not the
night wind, not the bushes, the flowers are not there to sing the way Rather, it seemed to me
as if someone paints the deepest bell in the distance a harmonica. "

Pulcher was right. Really matched the full, always stronger and stronger swelling Chords that
reverberated ever closer, the sounds of a harmonica, but their size and strength had to be outrageous.
Now when the GUIDELINES friend, offered them a play is so enchanting, that it freezes in astonishment
- firmly rooted - stopped. In less Distance traveled a man slowly through the forest, almost dressed
Chinese, but he was wearing a far bulky beret with beautiful feathers on his head. The car
was like a open shell of sparkling crystal, which appeared two large wheels of equal mass.
As soon as she turned, rang the wonderful Harmonikatoene that the friends have made the distance
heard. Two snow-white unicorns with golden harness drew the wagon on the place of the Carter,
a silver pheasant sat, holding the golden lines in the bill. Behind as sat a large gold Kaefer,
the fluttering with the shimmering wings, a wonderful man zuzuwehen in the Shell cooling seemed.
And he passed with his friends, he nodded friendly to them. The moment came from the sparkling
button of the long pipe, which the man in the hand, wore a jet at Balthazar, so that he deeply
a burning spot in the chest and felt a dull Oh! started. -

The man looked at him and smiled and waved friendly than before.

And the magical Wagon in the dense shrubbery disappeared, nor in the soft echo of the Harmonikatoene,
fell Balthasar, quite beside himself with joy and delight, his friend's neck and cried, "Referendarius,
We're saved! - That's is the cinnabar tried spell breaks "! -

"I do not know," said Pulcher, "I do not know how I feel at this moment whether I wake up, if
I dream about, but this much is certain, that an unknown Wonnegefuehl me penetrates and comfort
and hope that recurs in my soul. "

It is not to deny any longer that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, at the Lord Privy cinnabar
accepted as a shipping clerk, a descendant of that Baron Praetextatus was by moonlight that the
family tree of the fairy Rosabelverde in Turnierbuechern and chronicles vainly sought. He told
how his ancestor Praetextatus of moonlight, was of the finest Education, the most pleasant
manners, who mistook me and I never use the over yours and you wrote his name with French letters,
as well as at all a legible hand and worked even sometimes even, especially when the weather was
bad. Barsanuphe Fuerst, a successor the great Paphnutz loved him tenderly, for he had played on
every question an answer in the leisure hours with the princes cones, saw itself beautifully
on the money-and Negoz sought in the Gavotte his peers.

It was found that the Baron had invited Praetextatus of moonlight over the princes for breakfast
at Leipzig Larks and a glass of Danzig Goldwasser. And he went down in moonlight House, he was
in the hall among several pleasant diplomatic gentlemen small cinnabar, the one on his cane propped
him with his little eyes glared, and, without further to to reverse it, put a roast lark in his mouth,
he just gemaust from the table. And the prince saw the little one, he smiled at him graciously
and said to the minister: "Moonlight! what have you for a small, handsome, intelligent man in
your home? - It is certainly the same person who manufactured the most stylized and beautifully
written reports I get some time from you? "" Yes, sir, "replied the moonlight. "I have the skill
applied to him as the wittiest, most skilled workers in my Bureau. He called cinnabar, and I
recommend the wonderful young man quite excellent Your grace and mercy, my dear prince! - It was not until
a few days he is with me ". "And for that very reason," said a handsome young man who approached,
however, and thus does as Ew. to allow excellence to be noted despatched my little mate nothing.
The Reports that have been lucky, you, my illustrious prince, with pleasure to be noticed are
written by me. "" What do you want! "said the prince at him angrily. - Cinnabar had pushed
close to the princes and smacked his lips, devouring the lark with greed and appetite. - The
young man was really the source of those reports, but: "What you want," cried the prince, "you
still have not angeruehrt the spring - and that you consume close to me roasted larks, so that,
as I, to my great vexation must point to get my new Kasimirhose already a butter stain that you
in such a unfair smack, yes! - All this sufficiently proves your completely ineffective at
all diplomatic career! - Go home and fine do not get back to me see, unless you bring me a practically
useful spot for my ball Kasimirhose. - Perhaps I will again feel gracious "Then to cinnabar:"
These young men, as You, dear cinnabar, are an ornament to the State merit and awarded to
honorably be! - You are privy Spezialrat, my dear! "-" Thank you tens, "snarled cinnabar, as
he swallowed the last bite and wiped his mouth with both hands, "Thank least, I'll even make
the thing, as I ought."

"Brave self-confidence," the prince said in a loud voice, "brave self-confidence
evidence of the internal force that the worthy statesman innate need
"- And this saying the prince took a nightcap Goldwasser, darreichte
which the minister himself and his to him very well received. - The
new Council had to take place between the princes and ministers.

He ate and drank an incredible amount of larks confused Malaga and Goldwasser and snarled and
growled between his teeth, and fumbled, he hardly with the pointed nose at the table was rich, with
powerful hands and legs.

When finished the breakfast, called both the prince and the minister: "He is an English Man, this
Spezialrat Secret "-" You see, "Fabian said to his friend Balthasar, "You look so happy, your eyes
light up in special fire -.

You feel happy? - Oh, Balthazar, you may be dreaming a beautiful dream, but I have to up it awakens
friend is a must! "

"What is it, what happened?" asked Balthasar consternation.

"Yes," said Fabian, "yes - I must tell you Be calm, my friend -!

Remember perhaps no accident that meets in the world and yet painful to get over easily is, than
this! - Candida -

"To God," Balthasar cried in horror, "Candida - Candida what - she is gone - is she dead? "

"Quiet,"
continued Fabian, "calm, my friend - not dead Candida, but as good
as up for dead! - Know that the little tin Secret Spezialrat become
as good as Candida is promised with the beautiful, which, God knows
how to be very fond of him.

"

Fabian believed that Balthasar would break loose now in a wild, desperate
actions and curses.

Instead, he spoke with a quiet smile: "Is it nothing more than this, it is no accident that
could afflict me. "

"You love Candida anymore?" Fabian asked in astonishment.

"I love you," said Balthasar, "I love the child of heaven, the beautiful girl with all Fervor,
with all the enthusiasm that can only ignite a young man in the chest! And I know - oh, I know
it, that Candida loves me again, that only a wicked spell she knitted holds, but soon I release
the volume of this witchcraft, now I destroy the Fiend, who charmed
her arms.

"-

Balthasar now told his friend in detail about the wonderful man he most curious in the Wagon in the
woods encounters.

He concluded that, as well as from the floor button of the magical Being a beam in his breast
sparkled, the fixed idea dawned in him that cinnabar is nothing but a Hexenmaennlein, whose power
will destroy the man.

"But," said Fabian, when his friend finished, "but Balthasar, how can you on such a wonderful,
strange stuff falling? - The man you think is a magician is, no one unlike the Doctor Prosper
Alpanus who lives not far from the city at his country home. True It is the strangest rumors spread
by him, so he was almost Cagliostro would like to keep for a second, but because he himself
is to blame. He loves to wrap themselves in mystical darkness, the glow of a deeply with the
mysteries of nature trusted man to assume the unknown forces commands, and he has the most bizarre
Ideas. Thus, for example, his wagon be so strange that a man who by lively fiery imagination,
as you, my friend, may be well placed there, everything for keeping an appearance for some great
fairy tale. So listen! - Its Convertible has the form of a shell and is silver plated over
and over, is between the wheels is Organ attached, which track, and the car automatically plays.
What you for a Silver Pheasant were holding was certainly his little white-clad jockey, as you will
certainly be the Pages of ausgespreiteten umbrella for holding the Fluegeldecken a gold beetle.
lets his two white horses screwing it big horns, so it is only right fabulous to appearance.
Besides, it is true that the doctor Alpanus a beautiful Spanish cane wears a gorgeous sparkling crystal,
which sits on top of it as a button and the strange effect you told many fabulous or rather lying.
The beam of this crystal is intended to endure almost any eye. him, the doctor wrapped in a thin
veil to set up a firm look at it now, so will the image of the person, the one in the innermost
Thoughts wears appear outside as in a concave mirror. "" In fact, "was Balthasar the friends
to the word, "indeed tells oneself that? - What speaks well for further
of the Doctor Alpanus Prosper?

"

"Ah," said Fabian, "but only requires not want me by the fantastic
grimaces and antics much to talk.

You know, that there is as yet adventurous people who are healthy Reason to believe, contrary to
all the so-called miracle silly old wives' tale. "

"I will confess to you," said Balthasar, "that I am forced myself to the game to beat this adventurous
people without common sense. Silver-plated wood is not shining through a transparent crystal,
a barrel organ does not sound like a harmonica, a silver pheasant
is not a jockey and an umbrella no gold beetle.

Either the wonderful man who I have met, not the doctor Prosper Alpanus of which you speak, or the
doctor there really about the most extraordinary secrets. "

"Um," said Fabian, "in order to heal yourself completely from your
strange reverie, it is best to I almost lead you to the doctor Alpanus
Prosper.

Then you will feel it yourself that the Lord is a doctor just an ordinary doctor and no runs
with a walk unicorns Silver pheasants and golden beetle. "

"You speak," said Balthasar, by his eyes light auffunkelten, "you know, my Friend, the deepest desire
of my soul. - We want to make us just the same on the way. "

Soon they stood before the closed Gattertor of the park, in the middle of the country house of
the Doctor Alpanus was. "As we come into it?" said Fabian. "I think we beat," said Balthasar
and took the metal Kloepfel, who was placed close to the castle.

As soon as he picked up the Kloepfel, began an underground murmur like a distant thunder, and
seemed to fade in the depths. The Gattertor turned slowly, they entered and walked away with
a long, broad avenue through which they saw the villa. "You feel," said Fabian, "something extraordinary,
magical?"

"I thought," said Balthasar, "the way that opens the Gattertor would be, but not quite habitually
been, and then I do not know how I find everything so wonderful, so magical appeal. - Are you
well on far and wide, such as beautiful trees just here in this park? - Yes, some trees, shrubbery
seems so much with its shiny stems and emerald Leaves of a strange unknown land anzugehoeren.
-

Fabian saw two frogs of unusual size, are already used by the Gattertor on to both sides of the wanderers
were mitgehuepft. "Beautiful park," said Fabian, "in which there is such Vermin are, "and bent
down to pick up a small stone, after which he to throw the frogs funny thought. Both jumped into
the bushes and watched it with shiny human eyes. "Wait, wait!" Fabian
said, took aim at the one and threw.

At the moment, but squeaked a little ugly woman who was sitting by the roadside: "ruffian! kick
'He's not honest people who deserve here in the garden with sour
job you some bread .

'-' Must Come, come, "Balthasar murmured in horror, for he saw well
that the frog are designed to the old woman.

A look into the bushes convinced him that the other frogs, now become a little man, which deals
with weeding out the weeds. -

In front of the home country was a nice big lawn, on which the two unicorns grazed during the most glorious
chords rang in the air.

"You see well, do you hear that?" Balthasar said.

"I see nothing," said Fabian, eat as two small white horse, the grass, and what sounds so in the
air are probably hung Aeolian Harp. "

The magnificent architecture of the simple moderately large, one-story country house charmed
the Balthazar.

He pulled the bell cord, once the door opened, and a large ostrich-like, all glistening golden
yellow bird was as a porter before his friends.

"Now I see," Fabian said to Balthasar, "Now I see one of the great livery - Will you even after
giving the guy a tip, he may have a hand it in your pocket to ? Push "

And with that he turned to Strauss, seized him by the gleaming down
feathers, the under the beak at the throat like a rich Jabot would
widen, and said: "Meld"

He told us at the Doctor, my friend charmingly "- The Strauss said nothing but:" Quirrrr "
- Fabian and bit the finger. "A thousand Zounds," cried Fabian, "the guy is but probably at the
end of a bloody bird! "

At the same moment came on an inner door, and the doctor himself came to the friends contrary.
- A little thin, pale man! - He was wearing a little velvet cap on the head, hervorstroemte under
the beautiful hair in long curls, a long erdgelbes Indian Little red dress and Schnuerstiefelchen
whether with colored fur or shiny bellows a bird was taken not to
differ.

On his face was the peace and quiet good humor itself, but it seemed
strange that when he was quite close, looked pretty sharp, it was
than from the face look more like a smaller face out from a glass
electronic exchange.

"I saw her," now spoke softly and somewhat stretched with a gracious smile Alpanus Prosper, "I saw you,
my Lord, out of the window, I knew well before, at least As for you,
dear Balthasar, that you would come to me. - Follow I like you! -

Prosper
Alpanus they led in a high round room, all around, with sky blue curtains
hung.

The light fell through the top of the dome mounted window down and
threw his Rays on the polished, marble table supported by a sphinx,
the middle of the Room stood. Otherwise, absolutely nothing extraordinary
was noticed in the room.

"What can I serve you?" Prosper asked Alpanus.

As
summarized Balthasar, told what to go with the little tin of his first
appearance in Kerepes to, and closed with the assurance that in him
as the solid Idea dawned that he was, Prosper Alpanus, the campaigns
charity Magus, the cinnabar discarded, do abominable sorcery will
stop.

Prosper Alpanus remained silent are deep in thought. He was tall, strong, and brave; she, too, was tall,
as slender as one of the mountain saplings, with glorious brown hair and eyes, and a voice
as musical as a mountain echo. Well, they met and they loved, loved truly and deeply. It might
seem that the way was easy now for them to marry and go to a house of their own, but it was
not. There was a bar."

"A feud!" breathed the old man. The old woman put her hands to her eyes.

"Yes, a feud; they seem strange things to us here, but to those distant people in the mountains
they seem the most natural thing in the world. The youth and the girl belonged to families
that were at war with each other, and marriage between them would have been considered by all
their relatives a mortal sin."

The old man's eyes were fastened upon Jimmy Grayson's, but his look for the moment was distant,
as if it were held by old memories. The woman was crying softly. Again the soft shuffle of
feet in the other part of the house came to Harley's ears, but the old couple did not hear;
the driver was forgotten; for all Simpson and his wife remembered, he might still be finishing
his morning toilet on the porch.

"They were compelled to meet in secret," continued Jimmy Grayson, "but the girl was frightened
for him because she loved him. She told him that he must go away, that if her father and brothers
heard of their meetings they would kill him; it was impossible for them to marry, but she loved
him, she would never deny that. 

Before the child was ten years old and a smart, quiet and dreamy child with the deepest and clearest
blue eyes of a child and looked pensive and dreamy in the world that it consisted of rooms, strange
people and rustling and the fact her without her knew that something was missing that would
have let their eyes light up. And it was again the nurse with her and had her superstitious
and wonderful tales to tell in the twilight. Berta had nestled to her knees and hugged them
a hundred times and you stealthily repeatedly whispered, "Oh, nurse, you're right," Until
one of the servants of the! Countess she got over there, which had again become bad. There was
the nurse of them rushed to search for their patients to look. And had not noticed that the child,
through the darkness and the fairy tale confused, their nachschlich, probably because his love of
good nurse nachdrängte it, perhaps also because it feared or guessed something awakened in
his child's heart, a deep secret the one he hid, and wanted to discover it.

So it was that Berta slipped on the dark passage through the forbidden door and suddenly in a tall,
lighted room stood, is a tall woman with disheveled hair, yelling and wringing her hands wandered
and then exhausted to the ground crouched, wailing his head hiding between his knees. Then the
woman lifted her head up again and stared suddenly with the wide-open mouth with a mask and horrified
glances to the door where the child trembling stood, and then came to the rigid mouth a terrible
scream. Because the nurse had, however, already seen the child and had quickly pushed out
the door with one of the servants sent to his room.

It trembled and became pale, had his mouth open like that woman over there, only that it could
not scream, and finally in the arms of his foster mother broke the horror the child, a hot tears spring
soothes his confused mind. And so was the whole Berta Night in the arms of her nurse, the mild
objections to her and her face close to the Child's pale cheeks, pressed as if to keep evil spirits
away.

After this evening, which made the girl older by many years, was sick with Countess the nurse
in the round lonely tower above brought in the wood, to which a shady forest path about an hour
from the castle emporklomm, so that in the following nights where
the castle a new little star shone down, the lights in the troubled
bedroom of the Countess.

But the child remained a few months in the castle. It was very thoughtful and scary become
out of sleep it often shouted and distorted his face like a big fear and groaned from his dreams.
As did the count, which the elusive nature of his child was scary, after long consultation with
his cousin and the priest no other advice than to give it to the house. And Bertha came to the
Feldegg, poor knight people who Count managed a dairy and lived hours
away from the castle in a valley, where remained Berta by many months.

       

* * * * *

The first few weeks, the base was staying with the girl.
But then she drove away from because they saw how well the new environment
and the quality of people Meier on the mind of the child impacts. No one of the three had
much to say; all were in meditation, and the quiet and loneliness of the morning seemed to
promote musing. They drove some miles across the rolling prairie without seeing a single house,
but at last the driver pointed to a flickering patch of gold on the western horizon.

"That," said he, "is the weather-vane on the cupola of the new court-house, and in another
hour we'll be in town. I guess your people will be glad to see you, Mr. Grayson."

"And I shall be glad to see them," said the candidate. A few minutes later he turned to the
correspondent.

"Harley," he asked, "will you send anything to your paper about last night?"

"I have to do so," replied Harley, with a slight note of apology in his tone--this had not
been his personal doing. "For a presidential candidate to get lost on the prairie in the dark
and the storm, and then spend the night in a house in which only his presence of mind and eloquence
prevent a murder, that is news--news of the first importance and the deepest interest. I am
bound not only to send a despatch about it, but the despatch must be very long and full. And
I suppose, too, that I shall have to tell it to the other fellows when we reach the town."

The candidate sighed.

"I know you are right," he said, "but I wish you did not have to do it. The story puts me in
a sensational light. It seems as if I were turning aside from the great issues of a campaign
for personal adventure."

"It was forced upon you."

"So it was, but that fact does not take from it the sensational look."

Harley was silent. He knew that Mr. Grayson's point was well made, but he knew also that he
must send the despatch.

The candidate made no further reference to the subject, and five minutes later they saw horsemen
rise out of the plain and gallop towards them. As Harley had said, a presidential nominee was
not lost in the dark and the storm every night, and this little Western town was mightily perturbed
when Mr. Grayson failed to arrive. The others had come in safely, but already all the morning
newspapers of the country had published the fact that the candidate was lost, swallowed up
somewhere on the dark prairie. And Mr. Grayson's instinct was correct, too, because mingled
with the wonder and speculation was much criticism. It was boldly said in certain supercilious
circles that he had probably turned aside on an impulse to look after some minor matter, perhaps
something that was purely personal that had nothing to do with the campaign. Churchill, late
the night before, had sent to the Monitor a despatch written in his most censorious manner,
in that vein of reluctant condemnation that so well suited his sense of superiority. He was
loath to admit that the candidate was proving inadequate to his high position, but the circumstances
indicated it, and the proof was becoming cumulative. He also sent a telegram to the Honorable
Mr. Goodnight, in New York, and the burden of it was the need of a restraining force, a force
near at hand, and able to meet every evil with instant cure.

But the Western horsemen who met Jimmy Grayson--they clung to their affectionate "Jimmy"--were
swayed by no such emotions. They repeated a shout of welcome, and wanted to know how and where
he had passed the night, to all of which questions the candidate, with easy humor, returned
ready and truthful replies, although he did not say anything for the present about the adventure
of the old man and of the young one who was now the old one's son-in-law.

The driver took them straight towards a large and attractive hotel, and it seemed to Harley
that half the population of the town was out to see the triumphant entry of the candidate.
With all the attention of the crowd centred upon one man, Harley was able to slip quietly through
the dense ranks and enter the hotel, where he fell at once into the hands of Sylvia Morgan.
She came forward to meet him, impulsively holding out her hands, the light of welcome sparkling
in her eyes.

"We did not know what had become of you," she exclaimed. "We feared that you had got lost in
the quicksands of the river." And then, with a sudden flush, she added, somewhat lamely, "We
are all so glad that Uncle James has got back safely."

Harley had read undeniable relief and welcome in her eyes, and it gave him a peculiar thrill,
a thrill at first of absolute and unthinking joy, followed at once by a little catch. Before
him rose the square and massive vision of "King" Plummer, and he had an undefined sense of
doing wrong.

"We've brought him back safely," he said, after slight hesitation. "We spent the night very
comfortably in a farm-house on the prairie."

She noticed his hesitation, and her eyes became eager.

"I do believe that you have had an adventure," she exclaimed. "I know that you have; I know
by your look. You must tell it to me at once."

"We have had an adventure," admitted Harley, "and there is no reason why I shouldn't tell you
of it, as in a few hours a long account of it written by me will be going eastward." Cinnabar has It
means that studying the treatise Mosch Terpin for all days in the princely wine cellar allowed. He
already has half a hogshead of old Rhine wine, and several dozen bottles of champagne verstudiert
and now get a cask Alikante. - The butler wringing his hands! - How is the professor who, as
you know, the biggest glutton on earth, helped and He would be the most comfortable lives of
the world leaders he would not often when a hailstorm the fields has devastated the country suddenly
to declare for the princely Paechter, why did it hailed, so get the stupid devil a bit of science,
the future beware of the like and can not always allowed to require the adoption of the lease, one
thing half the blame no one but herself

"The Minister may, the good beating for you given him get over, not. He has given you revenge
sworn. You will be allowed no more you can see in Kerepes. Also follows me it much because I
have it mysteriously, to style of a winged lady I overheard. - As long as cinnabar remains of princes
darling, I will probably no Ordinary items can lay claim. My evil star has it that I always
use the monster appliances together, where I did not suspect, and in a way that I must be fatal. Recently
is the Minister in full dress, with swords, star and ribbon, in the Zoological Cabinet and has untergestemmt
after his usual manner, the floor, on tiptoe placed in suspension, the glass cabinet where
the rarest American monkeys are. Foreign; The Seen In approaching the Cabinet, and one that
the small root man beholding calls aloud: "Oh! - What a darling monkey! - What a cute animal! - The
pride of the whole Cabinet! - Oh, how the little nice to say Aefflein? where in the country?
"

"As the overseer of the Cabinet talks very seriously, as he touched cinnabar shoulder: 'Yes, a
very nice specimen, an excellent Brazilian, who called Mycetes Beelzebub - Simia Beelzebub Linnei
- niger, barbatus, podiis caudaque apice brunneis - howler '-

"'Sir,' - the little snorts now the overseer of, 'Sir, I think you are mad or nine of the devil,
I am not Beelzebub caudaque - not a howler monkey, I am cinnabar, the Minister cinnabar, Knight
of the Tiger with twenty buttons gruengefleckten! " - Not far away I stand and break - Had it claimed the
lives on the spot, I could not help me - From whinnying into laughter.

"'Are

you there, too, Mr. Referendarius?" he snores at me by red glow from his eyes witches sparkles.

"God knows how it happened that the stranger him constantly for the most beautiful and rarest
monkeys did they ever see, and it certainly did feed them Lampertsnuessen that they pulled
out of the bag. Vermillion now became so completely beside himself that he in vain for Breath
and grabbed the legs denied him the service. The valet had summoned take him on the arm and wear
down in the coach.

"Even I can not explain why this story to me a glimmer of hope There.

It is the first cake, done the little haunted absurdity.

"This much is certain that cinnabar recently very disturbed in the early morning from the garden
has come. The winged woman must be failed, because it is over with the beautiful Curls. His
hair is shaggy herabhaengen on the back and Fuerst said barsanuphe have: 'Do not neglect your
toilet so much, dear Minister, I will Send my hairdresser! " - Whereupon cinnabar very politely
expressed, he would the guy can throw out the window when he came.

"Great soul! you will not come in, ' then the prince has spoken and very cried!

"Farewell, dear Balthasar! Do not give up all hope, and hide yourself well to avoid Do not fall!
"-

Quite in despair about what he wrote the friend who ran deep into Balthasar in the forest and
burst into loud complaints.

"Let's hope I do," he said, "I should hope not, because all hope gone, because all stars set
and somber - dark night embraces me disconsolate? Unhappy fate! - I am subject to the dismal power
that came into my life perishable! - Awesome, that I was hoping for rescue from Alpanus Prosper,
Prosper Alpanus of this, of myself with arts of hell and lured me away from Kerepes drove by
the beatings, which I give the mirror image had, rained on cinnabar true back, "" Candida Oh!
- If I could only forget the child of heaven! - But powerful, stronger than ever glows spark
of love in me! - Everywhere I see the lovely form of the beloved, who with sweet Smile longingly
stretched out his arms to me! - I know! - Do you love me, dear sweet
Candida, and that's just my hopeless killing pain, that I do not able
to save from the terrible enchantment that caught up! - Tell-tale
Prosper! what I did to you that you mocked me so cruel!

"-

The deep dusk had fallen, all colors of the forest dwindled down to a dull gray. Since it was as light
as a special luster virulent evening light through trees and shrubbery, and a thousand Insektlein
charged with rustling flap of an butterfly buzzing in the air. Luminous Gold Kaefer swung back and forth between
them and colorful fluttering butterflies plastered and sprinkled scented flowers dust around
him. The whispering and humming became softer, suessfluesternder Music that is comforting to
put Balthazar torn chest. Above him twinkled stronger the radiant splendor. He looked up and
saw with astonishment Alpanus Prosper, based on a beautiful insect
that a dissimilarity in the most gorgeous colors gorgeous not dragonfly
therefore floated.

Prosper Alpanus fell down to the young man, at whose side he sat, while the dragonfly flew into
a bush and the song matched that sounded throughout the forest.

He touched the boy's forehead with the wonderfully brilliant flowers, which he has in hand was wearing
and immediately ignites, in von Balthasar's inward fresh courage.

"You do," said Prosper Alpanus now in a soft voice, "you do me great wrong, dear Balthasar, as you
scold me cruel and treacherous at the moment as I managed, is to be master of the spell, the disturbed
your life, than I do, just to speed up related to comfort you, me on my swing and creating
colorful Lieblingsroesslein ride, with everything provided, which can serve your salvation. -
But nothing is more bitter than the pain of love nothing like the impatience of a desperate
mind in love and longing. - I forgive you, for me it did not go even better when I was about
two thousand years an Indian princess loved, welcomed balsam, and the magician Lothos, who
is my best Friend was in despair, only pulling his beard, which is why I, as you can see, even
no Wear to not let it be done similar things. - But all of this to tell you extensive, would
probably be very out of place here, as every lover listen only to his love like that he alone
holds worth mentioning, as every poet hears only his verses like. So the point! - Know that the
neglected vermilion monster of a poor Bauerweibes and is actually called Klein Zach. Just out
of vanity, he has the proud name of cinnabar adopted. The Stiftsfraeulein of rose beauty, or rather
the famous fairy Rosabelverde, because nobody else is that lady, the little monster was on the
road. She believed everything the nature of the small failed neglected to replace this if it with
the strange mysterious gift bestowed, by virtue of anything in his presence any other Excellent
thinks, speaks or does, come on his account, so that he in society well-educated, intelligent,
witty people even for well educated, intelligent, and be respected
at all witty and always for the most perfect of the species, with
he in conflict, must apply.

"This strange magic lies in three feuerfarbglaenzenden hair, which is about the crown of the small
draw. Every touch of the hair, and at all of the head, had the Little painful, so be fatal. Therefore
let the fairy be naturally thin, shaggy Thick hair in graceful curls down Wall which, protective
of the little head, while those red stripe hidden and strengthens the spell. Every ninth day cooked
the fee itself the little magic with a golden comb, and this hairstyle destroyed at each destruction
the spell-looking company.

But the ridge itself has a powerful talisman that I the good fairy, when she visited me, knew
how to push destroyed.

"It is now only a matter of him pluck those three feuerfarbnen hair, and he falls back to his
previous Nothing! - You, my dear Balthasar, is subject to this disenchantment. You have courage,
strength and skill, you will execute the matter as it should be. Take this small ground glass
closer, up the little tin, where you can find him teach your keen eye through this glass on his
head, be free and open to the three red hair to pull over the head of the little ones. Stick
it firmly, do not watch the shrill cry of cats, which he will expel tear him out with a jerk
of the three hairs and burn them on the spot. It is necessary that the hair pulled out with a
jerk and be immediately burned, or else they could find all manner of pernicious effects . Externals
Judge therefore you are superior attention to the fact that you sent
the hair and firmly grasp and the little overdue, especially if a
fire or a light in the near located. -

"O Alpanus Prosper," said
Balthasar, "how bad I have this goodness, this generosity by earned
my distrust! - How do I feel it so deep in chest, which now ends in
my suffering, Himmelsglueck me that everything opens the golden gates
"! -

"I love you," said Prosper Alpanus, "I love young men who like
you, my Balthasar, Longing and love in the pure heart who, echoing
in their inward nor those gorgeous chords to the distant land full
of divine wonder, listen, this is my home.

The lucky ones with this inner music talented people are the only ones who can be called a poet,
although many will also scolded so take the first best bass hum on hand to and the confused din
the prowl for groaning under its own beautiful strings Music keep
the owners from their interior heraustoent. - You is, I know, my dear
Balthasar, you it's sometimes as if you understood the murmuring springs,
rushing Trees, so, as the flaring sunset talking to you with understandable
words! - Yes, my Balthasar! - In those moments you really understand
the wonderful sounds of nature, For by your own inner rises the divine
sound that the wonderful harmony the deepest essence of nature ignites.
- As you play the piano, o poet, so you'll know that linger on the
embattled tone to it with similar tones. - This is a law of nature
more than the stale simile! - Yes, my poet, you're a lot better than
some believe that you bring to your attempts, the inner music in pen
and ink on paper read.

With these experiments, it is not far away. But you have a historic property good throw done
than you with a pragmatic breadth and accuracy of the story of love the nightingale for the Purple Rose
wrote down, which go under my eyes. - This is quite like work "-

Prosper Alpanus paused, looked at him in astonishment at Balthazar with big eyes, he did not know
what to say, that Prosper's poem, which he for the most fantastic did he ever wrote down, for a historic
trial declared.

"You like," said Prosper Alpanus by a charming smile that illuminates his face, "You may well
surprise you about my speeches, you may at all strange to me much . Happen But remember that
I am in the opinion of all sensible people a person which may only occur in fairy tales, and
you know, dear Balthasar, that such persons to behave strangely and talk mad stuff, how can you only
like, especially if there is anything behind it all but what exactly can not be discarded. -
Now on! - Took the Fee Rosabelverde of misshapen so eager to cinnabar, so are you, my Balthasar,
now entirely my dear schuetzling. So listen, I inclined to do for you! - The Wizard Lothos me
yesterday, he brought me thousand greetings, but a thousand Complaints from the Princess balsam,
which is awakened from sleep and the sweet sounds the Chartah Bhade, that wonderful poem, which
was our first love, longing arms I stretched out. Even my old friend the Minister Yuchi beckons
me friendly to the North Star. - I have to go to the remotest parts
of India! - My character, I'm leaving, I wish to see no other possession
than in yours.

Tomorrow I am going to Kerepes and leave a draw up formal deed of gift in which I appear to
be your uncle. Is now cinnabar Spell solved, you step in front of the Professor Mosch Terpin out as the
owner of an excellent Estate, a considerable fortune, and you visit
the sites for the hand of the beautiful Candida, he will give you
all full of happiness.

But even more! - You draw with your Candida in my country house, is the happiness of your marriage
saved. grows behind the beautiful trees everything that needs the house, except the finest
fruits of the most beautiful and efficient coal delicious vegetables at all, how not to far
and wide place. Your wife is always the first salad, have the first asparagus. The kitchen is
set up so that the pots Never run over and ruin any dish, you should also once an hour inevitable
over the dinner hour. Carpets, chair and sofa covers are of the nature, that it is impossible
for the biggest blunder of the servants, remains a stain bring in, as no broken porcelain, not glass,
it should also be the servants therefore give the greatest trouble and throw it on the hardest
ground. Every finite, wash when your wife suggests, on the large meadow behind the house, the
most beautiful of all cheerful weather, should it be raining all around, thunder and lightning.
In short, my Balthasar, it is ensured that you calm domestic happiness to your lovely page and
Candida enjoy undisturbed! -

"But now it's probably time for me to go home and shared with my friends Lothos the preparations
for my imminent departure to begin. Farewell, my Balthasar! -

This whistled Prosper once or twice the level indicator, the cause was flying soon buzzing.
He bridled on and swung into the saddle. But even in these, he stopped suddenly and floating went
to Balthazar. -

"Almost," he said, "I would have your friend Fabian forgotten. In a fit roguish Mood I punished
him for his impertinence too hard. In this box is included, what comforts him! "-

Prosper Balthasar gave it to the small, bare polished turtles Doescher, the he pocketed as much
as the small eye-glass, which he first to disenchantment of cinnabar Prosper obtained.

Prosper Alpanus swept away now through the bushes by the voices of the forest stronger and
graceful sounded.

Balthasar went back to high-Jakob Home, all pleasure, all delight of the sweetest Hope in my heart.

In
the earliest dawn, when roads and streets are still lonely, crept
Balthasar into it to Kerepes and ran immediately to his friend Fabian.

When he passed the Stubentuere knocked, called out a sick dull voice: "Come in!" -

Bleach - disfigured, hopeless in the face of pain, Fabian was lying on the bed. "For heaven sake,
"said Balthasar," for heaven's sake - friend! Speak! - What has happened to you?

"Ah, friend," Fabian said in a broken voice, as he laboriously taught in the height, "With me it's
over, purely out. The damned Hexenspuk that, I know it, the vengeful Prosper Alpanus about
me brought me come crashing to destruction "! -

"How is that possible?"
asked Balthasar, "sorcery, Hexenspuk, you believed otherwise at the
like not.

"" Ah, "said Fabian continued in a tearful voice," oh, I think now all of Wizards and witches
and goblins and water spirits, to the rat king and the mandrake root - All that you want.
 On the long porch sat a row of men in rocking-chairs--correspondents, town officials,
and politicians, following in the wake of Jimmy Grayson. A state senator, a big, white-bearded
man named Curtis, who had been travelling with them for three days, jerked his finger over
his shoulder, pointing to the interior of the hotel, and said, mysteriously, to Harley:

"Where did you get it?"

"New York," replied Harley, sadly.

"Can't you lose it?"

"I don't know," replied Harley, hopefully, "but we can try."

Hobart, who was in the next chair, put his right foot across his left knee and nursed it judicially.

"It is eating its dinner now," he said. "It said: 'Landlord, I want a table alone. I do not
wish to be disturbed.' And just think, Harley, this is Colorado! Landlord, otherwise Bill Jeffreys,
was so taken aback that he said, 'All right.' But the Honorable Herbert Henry Heathcote is
being watched. There are three cowboys, at this very moment, peeping in at his window."

There was a dead silence for at least a minute, broken at last by Barton.

"Gentlemen," he said, "you do not yet know the full, the awful truth; I accidentally heard
Heathcote telling Jeffreys about it." You'll be surprised at all sorts of
Dreams to come, and the whole is terrible with imagined pain and sufficient Despair tumultuous
end. - However, I am also like you to-morrow to our Professor invited, who will entertain with a very
nice experiment! - Good night, fabulous Theatre! Sleep when you can sleep in front of such an important
day as to-morrow! "

This Fabian left his friend, who lost in deep thought. - Fabian did not like foresee no reason all
sorts of pathetic Ungluecksmomente dealing with candida and Balthasar could carry well, for
both health and temperament seemed, in fact, reason enough to do
to give.

Candida was everyone had to admit, a bildhuebsches girl, with right into my heart bright eyes
and rosy lips slightly raised. Whether its the way, nice hair, they aufzunesteln in strange lichens
even fantastic knew more blonde or more brown call, I forgot, but I remember very well the strange
property that they were getting darker and darker, the longer you looked at them. By a slim
tall figure, slight movement, was the girl, especially in a cheerful environment that grace,
the grace itself, and it overlooked with so much physical pleasure very much, that hand and
foot may be smaller and more delicate can be built would have. It had Candida Goethe "Wilhelm
Meister", Schiller's poems and Fouque's "Magic Ring" and read nearly everything they contain,
forgotten, played the piano quite acceptable, even sang sometimes to do so; danced the latest
Francaises and gavottes and wrote the blurb with a fine legible hand. If one were to thoroughly expose
the dear little girl, it was perhaps that they spoke a little too deep, to be constricted, too
long about a new hat rejoiced and ate too much cake for tea. Exuberant poets of course, was much
others not of the fancy Candida right, but which require all. For now do you know that the
young lady about all they can announce its own, in a somnambueles Delight, come a deep sigh, roll
my eyes, and occasionally well what little ohnmaechtle or even currently going blind as the highest
level of the most feminine femininity. Then Said Fraeulein the poet sing songs to the tune to
it (the lady), even from the Heart flowed, but offers them sick and even make good verses but
very ashamed when it comes out, regardless of the lady that poets recite their verses, on very
fine scented paper with delicate letters written, even appeared in the hands, which will also
turn sick about it with delight, which did not blame him is. There is poetic asceticism, which go
further and, contrary to all female delicacy Found that a girl laugh, eat and drink and dress
neatly in the fashion should.


Harley gazed at Heathcote in amazement, but there was nothing in his manner to indicate that
he was not in earnest.

"And you are the third person, I suppose?" said Harley.

"I have so constituted myself," replied Mr. Heathcote, and his tone was aggravatingly quiet
and assured. "As one conversant with great affairs, I am the most fit."

"Has Mr. Grayson agreed to this?" asked Harley.

"My dear man, I cannot permit you to cross-examine me. But, really, I wish to be on good terms
with the press, which is quite a useful institution within its limits. Now, you seem to be
rather more sedate than the others, and I wish you would have the goodness to explain to them
how I have taken affairs in hand."

Harley flushed at his patronizing tone, and for a moment he was tempted to thrust him out of
his way and proceed with his errand to Jimmy Grayson's room, but he reflected that it was better
to let the committeeman make the rope for his own hanging, and he turned away with a quiet,
"Very well, I shall forego the interview."

But as he went back down the stairs he could not help asking himself the question, "Does Jimmy
Grayson know? Could he have consented to such an arrangement?" and at once came the answer--"Impossible."

He returned to the porch, where all the chairs were filled, although the talk was slow. He
noticed, with pleasure, that Churchill was absent. The descending sun had just touched the
crests of the distant mountains, and they swam in a tremulous golden glow. The sunset radiance
over nature in her mighty aspects affected all on the porch, used as they were to it, and that
was why they were silent. But they turned inquiring eyes upon Harley when he joined them.

"What has become of Heathcote?" asked Barton.

"He is engaged upon an important task just now," replied Harley.

"And what is that?"

"He is editing Jimmy Grayson's speech."

Twenty chairs came down with a crash, and twenty pairs of eyes stared in indignant astonishment.

"King" Plummer's effort to hold himself in his chair seemed to be a strain.

"He may not be doing that particular thing at this particular moment," continued Harley, "but
he told me very distinctly that he was here for that purpose, and he has also just told me
that I could not see Jimmy Grayson, that he intended henceforth to act as an intermediary between
the candidate and the press."

"And you stood it?" exclaimed Hobart.

"For the present, yes," replied Harley, evenly; "and I did so because I thought I saw a better
way out of the trouble than an immediate quarrel with Heathcote--a better way, above all, for
Jimmy Grayson and the party."

The Western men said nothing, though they looked their deep disgust, and presently they quitted
the porch, leaving it, rocking-chairs and all, to the correspondents.

"Boys," said Harley, earnestly, "I've a request to make of you. Let me take the lead in this
affair; I've a plan that I think will work."

"Well, you are in a measure the chief of our corps," said Warrener, one of the Chicago men.
"I don't know why you are, but all of us have got to looking on you in that way."

"I, for one, promise to be good and obey," said Hobart, "but I won't deny that it will be a
hard job. Perhaps I could stand the man, if it were not for his accent--it sounds to me as
if his voice were coming out of the top of his head, instead of his chest, where a good, honest
voice ought to have its home."

"Now you listen," said Harley, "and I will my tale unfold."

Then they put their heads together and talked long and earnestly.

The shaggy mountains were in deep shadow, and the sunset was creeping into the west when Jimmy
Grayson came out on the porch where the correspondents yet sat. Harley at once noticed a significant
change in his appearance; he looked troubled. Before, if he was troubled, he always hid it
and turned a calm eye to every issue; but this evening there was something new and extraordinary
about Jimmy Grayson; he was ashamed and apologetic obviously so, and Harley felt a thrill of
pity that a man so intensely proud under all his democracy, or perhaps because of it, should
be forced into a position in which he must be, seemingly at least, untrue to himself.

The candidate hesitated and glanced at the correspondents, his comrades of many a long day,
as if he expected them to ask him questions, but no one spoke. The sinking sun dropped behind
the mountains, and the following shadow also lay across Jimmy Grayson's face. He was the nominee
of a great party for President of the United States, but there was a heart in him, and these
young men, who had gone with him through good times and bad times, through weary days and weary
nights, were to him like the staff that has followed a general over many battle-fields. He
glanced again at the correspondents, but, as they continued to stare resolutely at the dark
mountains, he turned and walked abruptly into the hotel.

"Boys," exclaimed Barton, "it's tough!"

"Yes, damned tough," said Hobart.

"King" Plummer, who was with them, maintained a stony silence.

An hour later the valet of the Honorable Herbert Henry Heathcote, a smooth, trim young Englishman,
arrived in Red Cloud, and never before in his vassal life had he been a person of so much importance.
The news had been spread in Red Cloud that a rare specimen was coming, a kind hitherto unknown
in those regions. When John--that was his name--alighted from the train in the dusk of a vast,
desolate Western night, a crowd of tanned, tall men was packed closely about him, watching
every movement that he made. Harley saw him glance fearfully at the dark throng, but no one
said a word. As he moved towards the hotel, a valise in either hand, the way opened before
him, but the crowd, arranging itself in a solid mass behind him, followed, still silent, until
he reached the shelter of the building and the protecting wing of his master. Then it dispersed
in an orderly manner, but the only subject of conversation in Red Cloud was the Honorable Herbert
Henry Heathcote and his "man," especially the "man."

At the appointed hour the candidate spoke from a stage in the public square, and it would not
be fair to say that his address fell flat; but for the first time in the long campaign Harley
noticed a certain coldness on the part of the audience, a sense of aloofness, as if Jimmy Grayson
were not one of them, but a stranger in the town whom they must treat decently, although they
might not approve of him or his ways. And Harley did not have to seek the cause, for there
at a corner of the stage sat a dominating presence, the Honorable Herbert Henry Heathcote,
his neck encircled by a very high collar, his trousers turned up at the bottom, and his white
spats gleaming through the darkness. More eyes were upon him than upon the candidate, but Mr.
Heathcote was not daunted. His own gaze, as it swept the audience, was at times disapproving
and at other times condescending.

About the middle of the speech the night, as usual, grew chilly, and Mr. Heathcote's "man,"
stepping upon the stage, assisted him on with a light overcoat. A gasp went up from the crowd,
and the candidate, stopping, looked back and saw the cause. Again that shadow came over his
face, but in a moment he recovered himself and went on as if there had been no interruption. 

As for Riccardo entered the palace and through the decorated halls of a king worthy were excited
heart was walking because he felt as if his desire for revenge against this Splendor and the uncommon
wealth would wavering, as he would with his hatred into a World come to, serene and princely,
would be far away from any emergency of life, and a painful astonishment seized him on his wobbly
feeling. He felt like a beggar before, clearly wants to put a rich man, his misery and noted that
not even can make an idea of ​​how pathetic people can eke out their existence. Then but also
increased the resentment against the rich, the beggar on him twice, his hatred flamed the more
ardent in the air, he covered the hilt of his sword, and felt a burning satisfaction at the thought
that he, the son of an impoverished nobleman, this spoiled little fellow its abundance and snatch to take
revenge on the boys will. He saw the poor in spirit His mother's house in the desolate valley,
near Genoa, and saw the two women destroyed through the empty rooms to sneak his disgraced sister,
perhaps even for this lecher enviable held because he had acknowledged his embrace! And Riccardo
clutched sword pommel, because this boy was in the House and through this gate, this hall,
this Courses, and if he would oppose him now, he felt, he would him, without a word to speak,
come down.

As a servant came up to him and asked about his wishes.

"Whether he spoke the Count Palma could? "

"No, gentlemen, for some weeks on their castles." Riccardo said, but impatient he wanted to talk to the
young Count.

"Oh," said the servant, "our young man who is not at all to talk now! Is about four months ago
with the fleet went to Asia Minor, which is probably not until the
end of the year back home!

"

"Towards the end of the year? Man, do you really? Is no excuse? "went Riccardo up. He staggered,
so unprepared to meet him, that decision, because he had the communication the Genoese officers
that Ermete might not be in Rome, completely forgotten, because he
they wanted to forget, he had not thought about it, so it seemed within
reach of Moment of his revenge.

"You know it safe?" He repeated.

"Quite sure, sir! Incidentally, your worship experience even more information from our rule,
outside in Selva nera, where is now the whole Roman nobility gathered. "

"Yes, yes, I will do it," said Riccardo, and he left the palace with
dull glance disappointed and hopeless, and wandered long through the
streets of Rome, unable to develop a plan to To design unhappy and
shattered.

IV

Now, his desire for revenge as an evil poison that gnawed at him. He slept with the thought of
his disgraced sister to bed, he saw in a dream, as he left it once had, and looked plaintively
mistaken by the parents, with eyes downcast and anxious, the eyes to meet his beloved mother.
He dreamed, as his mother from the boards of their Bedstead carpentered a coffin down into their
lost lives, and he woke up unhappy and tormented. Then he wandered in the neighborhood of Rome, and
found a place from which he an light up the far line of the sea saw. There he stood in the
blazing sun, with an intense Look, not whether there would appear the squadron, for which he
longed. And if he his eyes a heated vessel faked, then raised his arms as if he fly towards him
wanted to let them fall powerless when he realized the mistake. Beppino was shocked at his master
when he returned home, tired and confused in their poor lodgings, and ventured probably once
a timid remark, the merciful Lord to take in before the fever eight and whether they would rather
not return home to Genoa. Since it struck me so hard View from the eyes of Riccardo's, that henceforth
he was silent and withdrew with a sigh.

And so Beppo loitered in the streets of Rome and in the squares around until he one day to
another Sailors of the Genoese fleet, met the same to him with his master, an amiable Officers
and relatives of the pope was in Rome.

He told his troubles to his master, and it rose up in him a quiet plan, the bring together two
officers, and he also led with the help of his comrades Tonio be Projects by excellent. Who
told his master, the Spada da Nobile that he the noble met Mr. Fabbri was, how miserable he looked,
and that he had been researching, that he in Via angusta live, if
the Lord wanted him not to visit there again because it had bad around
him are.

The officer said to be happy, because he was fond of Riccardo, and so waited he very next
day on his war comrades and met him as he from the small Hostel in via angusta came out.

"Riccardo Fabbri," cried he seems surprised, "it's you or it's your shadow converts here through this
accursed narrow street? Speak quickly, for already it seems to me, my Lord, when I had a stranger
to my comrades Fabbri addressed! "

He took off his hat and made a polite bow to Riccardo, the only really a moment hesitated whether he
should adjust and do strange.

For the first moment it was this Embarrassing encounter, he wanted to be in this dirty alley,
recognized not like he also feared a disability equal to its vague plans. But then won his Honesty
more so, than he was with Emilio always gotten along in the best
and laughing at his Face the joy of reunion lit up significantly.

"Of course I am, my dear because Spada," he said then, and went up to his comrades, he to shake hands.
"I've been in business here and my family will now soon Leave Rome. "

And he lied in these words, because he believed in that moment of feeling herself even the fact
that he now had gone from Rome.

"You certainly will not do," Emilio said warmly, "we were always good
friends, Riccardo, and you may not depart from Rome, before you visited
my parents and with me the glories 've seen my home!

"

He motioned to his servant, who stood with Beppino in the gate of the hostel, and told him some
rapid words. Then he took Riccardo under his arm and pulled him, laughing. And in this Riccardo
night asleep in the palace of Spada.

V.

The great palace of his host's was deserted, for the Father Emilio was only for a few days for
the reception of his son came to Rome, he had him in a solemn audience the Pope was presented
and then returned to his summer palace, while Emilio still in Rome ordered his affairs. All
Riccardo learned in the evening, since the two Mates, by an attentive valet operated admirably,
with a bottle of fine wine Supper held her and refresh memories. They talked about mutual acquaintances,
appeared on the prospects of the next spring and his enterprises, and Riccardo again the fun-loving
and good officer, as he loved his mates and liked.

He was excited and almost serene, and as even as Spada mentioned the name of Palma, suddenly
shut the Riccardo had made, and it said that the Palma are the neighbors
of his parents in Bosco rado, da Riccardo was almost cocky in his
joy, he raised his glass and emptied it, he from the likes Emilio
prepare again and again by the beauty of Francesca, the young Countess
Ermete vorschwärmen and sister, and was quite ready with his comrade
and love to friends like Emilio's second coming days in the mountains
to ride.

Because the wine was good and rolled like fire through his veins.

"Too bad Ermete is not at home, bitter shame," said Emilio, every day "would be a Festivals
have become! "

! Yes, bitter shame repeated Riccardo, he had become serious.

"I would have liked to see the! You have talked a lot about him in Genoa! "

"And sure only good things," boasted Emilio. "The men love him and understand with the women
it does not like him!

You ought to know, Riccardo, and if luck means well, he comes home
sooner than his parents believe.

By now you would be friends, you fit together!

"

There was Riccardo jumped from his chair, he felt his sword hilt in the hands to hold and swung but
the wine glass, that the red wine splashed blood on his hand. He did something terrible to say, his
eyes sparkled, but he failed, and he fell helpless and lost back
in his chair laughing.

Since it Beppino brought to bed.

VI.

When the two officers in the next day at morning snack met Emilio and laughing from to two
of their drinking session yesterday said since it was first Riccardo clear that he does not I
dreamed he was upset about his weakness and was afraid of his plans and intentions have something
to tell. Then separated the two in order for their purchases the next day of travel to get that
Riccardo was soon done.

Then he wandered the same again in Rome and in a hushed inn under the Monte Pincio, where he
took his lunch, it was an idea alive, the last night for the first Male was shot like lightning
through his brain.

"You ride tomorrow to Bosco rado," he said to himself, "and can perhaps before tomorrow parents
and sister whose standing has destroyed your happiness and your loved ones. And you are moved
out to seek revenge for the disgrace that he had done to your home. Is not Location, it finds
you and the family Palma you, the same one that was moons ago Ermete, as he entered the house
of your mother? The brother are on the seas and the women alone, if I disregard the old count. And
there is a different, more just revenge, a revenge to repay like
with like better than if you were the returning brother, who is now
your Sword escapes, do just as unhappy as he takes you in all your
high hopes has destroyed?

There is the mother, as sister and as I am, "he calculated the Fingers of the situation. "If that
rascal, that coward who fled in front of me on the sea has, on the spot, he should not experience
this evening. But he has fled from me, " the thought of eating its way deeper into his brain,
"he has made off cowardly to my to escape revenge because he had to know that I will soon find
that I appear soon going to pay off the shame. And now there are two women: what else is left
for me choice but to pay the same injustice with the same injustice as his sister so badly to
make when he made my sister for life miserable!

And when he returns home, he should be felt all the pain I suffered in recent weeks, and then will
I stand before him, openly and honestly, as befits a knight, and
he shall be my account I will give him and give account.

So it is! "

He made the line under his bill, so he pulled the sum of their individual
numbers, so he soothed his conscience until it fell asleep.

A hot feeling of satisfaction flowed through him, he could no longer remain seated, it drove
him into the open and a glowing Impatience drove him through the streets of Rome. He could hardly
wait for the morning and was pleased the upcoming events such as
a vigorous young man on a tournament, from which he as Winners must
show.

And he was on the ride to Bosco rado through the beautiful, clear Early autumn morning spirited
and happy as ever.

"Tell me about Francesca, Emilio," he said as they rode up a steeper
path, She is beautiful, she is adorable, she has a lover?

"

He had to talk about Francesca, he urged his horse up close to the
mold Emilios, he felt that he went with his question in the risk out
anything, but just this irritated him, he had to ask:

"Is she really
as beautiful as everyone says?

And she has already forgiven her heart to someone? I desire for adventure, you know, I long for
happiness and love! And love! " he repeated, as Emilio was silent.

Emilio had turned away at the questions of his comrades only, then he patted his horse the bug,
and now he looked Riccardo with a large and serious eyes, he was steep and as cast in bronze
in the saddle and then spoke with a voice that too heavy for the simple Answer was:

"You are mistaken, Riccardo Fabbri, Francesca, is a Roman nobleman, it is not for adventure
born, she is a Palma! "

"And my sister is a Fabbri," was about to answer Riccardo. But he is inhibited.

"You tell me nothing new, it is a Palma," he tried to soften his question. "And I asked nothing, as if
she was beautiful. You want to answer my question, " He then added
cheerfully, "you surprise me like!

Thank you! "

He laughed forced, but his serenity was gone, he felt the humiliation in the Emilio's words,
he felt it Spada in the distance reminded that the poor of Fabbri
Countess Palma separated, he bit his lip and was, as they now were
riding in the plane spurs to his horse, that it occurred at a rapid
pace.

Then he slackened his trot of his horse and said: "You see, it makes
me mad the spice of this fall ride!

Do not be evil, Emilio, we are young, look how clear- the wooded mountains of the blue sky lift.
"

And after some hesitation he added, his voice was soft and almost
tenderly:

"I have not asked you yet or have forgotten it, Emilio,
if you have siblings?"

"Yes, Riccardo," Spada said, "I have two sisters, one is married and
lives in Tuscany, and at home I have my little, my dear Mary, the
girlfriend Francesca, you'll soon see.

"

He raised his arm and pointed Riccardo middle of the hilly forest,
a bright spot.

"There is Bosco rado and over there, not far from that forest clearing, sitting Palma. "

He smiled and held his hand over Riccardo. "There will you be my response earlier ! Understand
"

"Yes, there we will see ourselves more than ever!" Said Riccardo.

And they rode straight on hot to very soon to come to Bosco rado.

VII

Since then rode through deep twilight, flashed suddenly close the lights of Bosco rado on which
they had been concealed during the last hour, and it was also no not long before they arrange the
lights and the rows of windows and the whole structure of the castle could erzeichnen it.

But in the vicinity of the castle was now visible a bright, broad light, shadow interrupted, and the light
suddenly blazed some moment in the air, so that Emilio was anxious and questioning Riccardo
response was guilty.

"There on the small hill next to the castle, the farm buildings," he said as to himself, "it will
be created but hopefully not a fire that would be a bad Illumination for my unexpected homecoming!
"

They rode rapidly, and now they have seen already that the shadows
with some regularity by the light flashed, and soon they heard loud
voices and light laughter.

The forest was the riders for a short time back on, a light wind blew them cheering voices and
quickly becomes silent and the sounds of a great music.

"Oh, they celebrate a village festival," Emilio said, relieved chest. "We want until the festive
look and surprise them.

We want them in the shade under mix and let us see then in the light. "

He beckoned to Tonio and Beppo and gave them the horse rearing, his short commands. The two ministers
should bring in a roundabout way the horses in the stable, but this do not hurry. Then the two
gentlemen were very close to the edge of the forest and looked between the trees to the spectacle,
which offered them fantastic and strange enough.

Stood in the wide clearing seitab of the stately white castle on the hill a barn and down at
the foot of the gentle slope was a noble and happy society combined,
ladies and gentlemen, young and old, appreciate the ladies on benches
and chairs, however, the men had gathered to will and affection for
her.

On the rounded slope However, about halfway between the rulers and the barn, burned a fire of
torches, that the whitewashed wall of the large house lit bright. And from both sides of the
Hill rode up on mules lively two boys to the barn, and suddenly recorded in their grotesque,
enormous shadow, coming out of the darkness, the brightly lit Wall, for foolishly distorted
and enlarged up to the roof of the building, another break in, to looking fabulous, incredible
animals, and the shadows had flail in his hands, secured to the bars but had large bladders.
A bagpipe wailed to by Flutes laughed, and the loud laughter of the
aristocratic society accompanied the strange Shadow and silly sounds.

"This is our servant," are said Emilio, "they talk and make the gentlemen its pretty jokes
before. There, my mother is sitting next to the Countess Palma, who, like me, to my Freudian, has
come to the evening, and there the three cavaliers might Francesca
Palma with my sister.

But now take heed to the spectacle, just its peak has achieved. "

Suddenly in the middle of the white background of the wall is a fantastically plastered woman
appeared, the incredible shade of a lush exaggerated woman who after
the two Sides of the mule riders crude threw kisses. They were just
in their progress down nearly at the distinguished spectators arrived,
now they seemed, by the music made aware Suddenly they saw the woman,
they turned their animals, and rode furiously up the hill up, the
ride suddenly locking, as her shadow touched the shadows of the Holden.
She was stormy in its enticing movements, sometimes they seemed one
and then the other to That favor the piper was there became very great,
the flutes and wailing again best amused society cheered loudly to
the strange spectacle.

Riccardo stood next to Emilio, his face continued
to smile, his heart was pounding mightily and his eyes staring fixedly
at the group, which had shown him his friend, because were the three
gentlemen, two younger and one older, and the two girls, laughing,
and Happy swapping comments. But Riccardo asked not only which of
the two girls Francesca was, he knew right away, he could not deceive
himself, he did not mind, that he may be mistaken, for his eyes and
his heart told him that the must be small, The Gay, Francesca.

"She's
beautiful," it rejoiced in him, and his youthful ardor he whispered
in the same the ears: "Because ....« your revenge But he thought the
wicked thoughts did not end He forced himself to think of his sister
and clenched his hands into fists. "Yes, Francesca is so cute, so
charming, so irresistible! And so, you poor sister; You may also be
her brother appeared, that you could not defend him! "

He now saw
the other on, it was great, had a serious, in a strict but extremely
fine lines drawn face, and this was seriously on their pure lines,
even if She smiled, so that it is about how the muse of history next
to the muse of love or song the graceful dance with her friend was. Its production cost him a great deal of thought and labor; but he
had his reward, as its perusal after completion proved to him that it was a masterpiece.

Churchill showed quite clearly to Mr. Goodnight the steady decay of the candidate's character
and the lower levels to which his campaign was falling. Those who experienced much suffering inside, laughs the apparent danger!
" And when she felt the value of every moment, as they often ride in a thoughtful speech continued
to speak, she threw herself passionately in Leon's chest now, she lowered the volume her voice
is not, she blazed against tongues: "My mother died more than even if they up there in the tower
room is breathing! And my father, hear, Leon, my father hates me I am him too much, I prevented
him, if he can also prevent me by little. You good Leon, if you knew how very much has to endure
humiliation and insult me, how often I take refuge in my mother's previous medical history Mach
from the sight of that .. "her mouth bristling is to say the word - "the shameless that has robbed
me of the father, who was standing in the gate at his side, since I returned to my longing
in the heart of the pins that of my Mother with words that I would die of grief, while the father
swings his tankard and her zulacht! Leon, I go with you, I go with you wherever it be, how could I
now live alone here on! "

She was silent and exhausted her deep blue eyes looked longingly at him and hoping up. Then
she heard of his silent, quivering lips unspoken words ringing in their ears, Words of love and
compassion, and she smiled happily, as his mouth on hers lowered.

And then they sat close together on the bench and leaned her speech was always the one Word "I
love you" and "I love you," and was kissing her longing and gratitude and Performance, they
had to divorce.

       

* * * * *

Leon had the long ride home wondering whether he should tell the mother of his love; for he
felt that their concerns would arise from it much. But he also knew that he alone too weak to
make a decision. Had it already but just sweet in all the Moments of happiness in the tower almost
disturbing tortured the one thought that with him Berta wanted to flee. What it should have
been happy and bring delight, his blood would boil have that worried him that his disturb his
happiness. The dangers of the journey, the hatred and the safe prosecution of the count, the
trouble for his parents and much Unausgedachtes and rapidly during germination in his soul
oppressed: a wealth of unusual and torturous Performances crowded now between his love and
the beloved.

"I can not but like wandering around with a Vagantin with the count's daughter, "he repeated.
And so he came to At home.

Father was still in the forest outside home and he sat with the mother alone in the room, and
slowly, slowly, his words came from the lips, the bright and the dark, his hopes and concerns.

The
mother had probably thought that Leon's childhood dreams did not
become single, Now she heard of Berta's love for her son.

She thought that listening is silence for a while after, she let her hands fall into your lap.

"You are young and love you," she said, "so you must have the courage
to have a love!

And you will love, courage and perseverance need! "

"And I will take Berta now to me," Leon said hastily.

"Your question, my boy, is answer enough already," said the wise woman.

"She will not speak of it! But perhaps she lets her father, after you rode away, to me, and if
they can not live for a long time with us, they will have to find ways to come to me! And if
you have the opportunity to send us a letter, then it is probably
a little letter this Find!

"

Leon nodded relieved he had, as he kissed her hands, felt that he was worthy of would be to see
him again and that this noble woman no more than boys, but as a man should. He straightened
himself up, he thought of Berta and felt strong and secure.

Then he came to Berta together several times and the mother had been right. Berta afraid to return
to their words at the first meeting, they spoke no more of it and
thanked in the heart of Leon, who was so sensitive to shame not to
do it.

       They embraced and kissed each other in a tearful farewell and vowed
eternal love and loyalty, he told her of his habit when Aveläuten
and they promised each other, the evening bells their greetings ANLKL,
that they wield against each other.

And then turned to Leon the last time on the horse around and took her last curtain waving in his
soul full of to Italy.

* * * * *

He had wanted to stay for now two full years on the bulbous University. The first months it
was the waking memory of his bride, as he in his dialogues with his Heart, called sustained.
Then he found a highly educated teachers, which he the suffering of the sick Countess argued,
and the casus much thought and thorough Meditation had caused. For he had grown fond of the
German students and wanted to help him.

He had promised him at last also the Countess and an Arcanum while the monosyllabic scholars even
started his treatment after his long pulse had examined him and repeatedly bled. For Leon felt
dull and wrote this is the flaccid south, however, probably be homesick for the north and his
old heart ills want to undermine him.

As it because after one and a half years back wanted to be a spring,
there came an insatiable Urging upon him that he told his learned
master, he must move north again, it was as if a secret magic heimdränge
him, whether the revered teachers the means to him now could give
the ailing Countess now.

As the scholar led him into his study and brought all sorts of strange between piston vessels
and a bar of light produced window glass, which was taken in a lead frame.

"This glass, which seems so insignificant up, take with you your home. And it depends from the
Window of the tower room, is wasting away your high patient. It is through this window Looking
at and I'll tell you, it's a wonderful glass and deep secret virtues gifted that the vast and common
lay understanding why seemingly morbid longing in the eyes of the beholder passing Go, and
they looked long enough through the glass have to be weeks, moons, and perhaps years, and
then their eyes are clear and it is be cured! Forget but one not, if you now heimreitest. You
may give the artificial and extraordinary glass rather than a servant into the hand or even in
your holster bag insert that could be sinful to avenge the delicate
complexion of its construction, but It must bring home in your hands,
that he not be hurt and always the air was.

And when the healing comes, then the glass will be the herald of his own color! And now ride
home and may the healing efficient windows also strengthen your weak body and strong! "

Leon thanked his master of hot words and promised him, so it hopefully soon one goal lead happier
here to report to him and to thank worthy, where he was a was very cheerful picture in mind.

So
he went away and rode as a very strange horsemen to the north. He held the glass in his hands to
himself, or based on the knee if a hand had to take the reins. He also grew to the arduous
Alpine climbing from his horse, the reins wrapped around his arm, and let the little horse trotting
behind, like a monstrance by the glass in your hands wore. Many weeks passed so before he was
beyond the Alps, and many weeks before he approached his home. And the more tired he was, the narrower
and darker face, the more often he had to stop to be calm, almost heart failure, the hotter his
desire was home, since it a large and painful anxiety was caught, in which yearning and Fear was
lost to him the image of his lover so that he days and nights trying to to remember, be able
to do without. And sick and miserable, with arms, by the eternal salvation holding the window, almost
withered to wood, with a heart that a lead-heavy Fatigue prevented
from hitting, he came one morning before the valleys of his homeland.

       

* * * * *

He had thought to greet his parents first to embrace his beloved mother and listening to tell his
father from his studies and the wonderfully strange Italy, and to the same experience of going
to the castle is new, for he now had many months get a long letter from home and did not know
whether his writing ever in the hands of his Mother and his bride had arrived. As he rode away
but in the valley, from which the paths after his parents' home and branched off the castle,
there was a strikingly large life the street, many cars drove away and precious servants rode
past him as if just today Judgement Day at the castle would be. As he rose, still tormented by his
great fear of Horses and sat down by the way, ask someone. At a knight, he did not dare to he from
the long and dusty riding looked low, so he asked a peasant decision,
cause of what life on the street have.

The looked at him in sheer disbelief, if not he knew that tomorrow
was the wedding.

"The wedding?" Leon's pale lips trembled.

"Well, of Duke married the daughter of our counts," said the peasant calmly and was about to
tell. But he remained with his mouth open, because, the questioner jumped was dusty and the
panel held in his hands as a shield in front of him.

"Berta? ? Berta "he shouted it, and he looked so altered and not of this earth, that the farmer
was anxious and frightened and he ran off with long strides. Leon was, however, Hikers have
another run out, he also asked him what in the castle itself issued. And he had hardly heard
the answer, he ran against three women, with severe Baskets packed daherhumpelten, and said to
him, and not even considered him drunk as he staggered so strange,
and called out to him that morning on the first free beer will flow
castle, so he may just empty out for tomorrow's Saufsack neat!

Leon said, but very absent-minded, only "my bride, my bride!" And "is something not yet possible,
"and then he rose painfully to his horse, and wanted it in a more rapid Bring trot; including the
poor, weary animal not to move but was.

So he sat on the horse, the glass held in his stiff hands, and rode
on the forest trails remained against the castle, while the others
on the wide road.

He did not see that he finally his longed-for months, beloved forest was reached, he did not
hear the rustling of its Trees after that, he had demanded so hot, and looked away to the larks,
which jubilantly threw into the ether.

"That is the conclusion," he said, the trees, and the nod to "So this is the end!" But when he
saw flashing by noon the White Castle in the trees, as was the Horse standing by itself, and
as Leon's eyes beheld the white walls, there was the pain of great
in him, blinded him as the bright light of the castle and he was crying
too much, that the Horse again and again looked around for his master.

       The increase for out of the saddle, put the Glass beside himself,
and sobbed in the moss on the earth.

And the little horse sniffed his master and did not understand him.

* * * * *

    
    Leon had finally put on a crazy, aching
    smile was on his lips, and always again he said, shaking his head:
"That is not something yet possible, but it is only in songs, then
the guys sing in the evening in the villages:

And when he came home
my darling, my darling house Just came out of the wedding, Dear love,
under the veil.

"

He sang the verse quietly and sadly to himself and then he laughed out loud. "So is the eternal loyalty,
which they swore to me, it is love that fools me every hour of their could remember. God in
heaven above, what can I do now? Should I stand before them, they mock me and asks who the dirty
servant who dares to the countess with meaningless words harass? And should I wait until she
and her father fine by me Court can whip? I fool, I took her eyes to be true, her kisses for
pure! But I must tell you that it is a Gauklerin, I must tell her that I recognized have! And
if it were only that I disturb her wedding, I must, I must talk to her! But how can I get at it? As it is now
under their wedding dresses and Hochzeitsgeschmeiden have to speak for me! I will send her a letter,
"he cried from the ground rising, "I write her a letter! That I bring the cure for her mother.
I order them to the tower, where I want to wait its when I have time,
then I want her in the face ... "

He was startled by his loud voice, then he took his tablets and wrote in her bustle Words of his
return as he pleased - Tears ran in his lines - as he rejoice that he had yet come to the wedding deal,
and that he was for the Countess promised health funds have brought
home, and he added, because I think what I promised.

At the round tower, he wanted her to pass the Arcanum, he would wait there until the evening.

Then
he searched his bag, one last piece of money to meet him sparkled, he took the folded letter
and crept up to the gates of the castle. And as he there a Servants saw this, he asked him if he
wanted to earn the gold. He had only once this little letter bring to the countess bride and
then tell him whether he had ordered the secret message. Then, when the servant came back and had
received his gold piece, mounted his horse, Leon, now felt he almost joy at his throat, and
rode up the steep forest path ascended to the tower.

And he had the glass sheet in hand, without feeling it, so he was accustomed to hold them.

"If my mother knew that I am now but come at the right time as they'd take in the arms, how she
would weep with me! "He moaned softly to himself, he thought to all stations of which he had
before, but was not a thought in his heart, Berta that perhaps could also be unhappy that they also
learn a lot of great suffering, perhaps greater, than he could imagine! An immense bitterness filled
him, the shame the spurned lover and betrayed lover, he was called fools and gullible Drip, and
he held the glass in his hand and raised it at every uneven step his horse, that you done
nothing. He fed his horse and put the disc next to the bench by the tower. He sat down on the
ground and leaned his heavy head in his hands. "Here I will wait. Whether they will come?
If only my heart is not at all wanted to hurt so "- he had in his pocket yet found a last crust
of bread, chewed it it now, because he felt weak for offense and a terrible lassitude him paralyzed
the limbs. "I'm to die," he breathed. His head fell on the bank, was he there and stared in
front of him .........

> Only now do not die! "He thought, 'not just now!

I have only talked with Berta, oh! only a few words, so she knew how she made me miserable!
<

He felt dull die, so he lifted it a little, and wrung her hands together, because he thought
he put Berta by the shoulders, you his contempt and his Pirates wanted to throw in the face.
He saw her eyes before him, the startled blue eyes, The shocked looked up to him, and he felt that
she saw him in his infinite, hot must admire and love excitement. And then he wanted to raise
the glass and its . Present In the words of the Master:> If anyone has experienced deep sorrow
and full of longing and love is confused, then he should look through the glass, moon, moons, it
will the desire to go into the glass and the soul are cleansed!

"and he wanted to say Berta, they may bring the glass to her mother, he may give it to her, as he promised,
if he himself equal ....

"No, I will not tell her," he groaned, "that they experience the triumph not humiliate me to
see!

Since I prefer to break the glass before their eyes, into a thousand pieces, such as it broke
my heart! "

Then he heard horses neighing, and he got tired, tired, and dragging
with the heart and there, he raised defensive hand, as Berta in front
of him.

"Leon," she cried, "Leon, my only joy on earth, my hope and confidence,
Leon, my lover, you come save me, "and she wept, she sobbed, she hugged
him, they pressed him to be stormy, they kissed and caressed him,
"you my last confidence, you my only lover, Leon, Leon, my savior!

"

Leon hung on her neck, he felt his legs disappeared beneath him, he
felt his His heart filled the whole breast to burst the ribs, his
right hand floated by the Air: "This is too much, I do not deserve
my bride"

.....

She looked him in the face, it was covered with sweat and pale as death, as they left his body
slide down on the bench: "For heaven's sake, Leon, seize you, my God, he is me but not now ......,
my hope, my happiness, Leon, my Leon! "

They fumbled with his jacket, she wiped his face, because it was lighter and finally whispered
he in her ear:

"Fortune has made me so weak! Berta O, my poor dear bride, I am unworthy tell me just quickly,
what have they done to you? For God's sake, speak soon, forgive me, Berta, forgive me, before
it's too late! "

And she put her arm under his head, and in mad fear, for he gasped, as in Fever, she told him
how her father Leon's only letter they get found, I like them in front of the servants and
his ...., before> her "with an ugly dirty word reviled, as he had
cursed her and vowed she would soon come to other thoughts; as it
was then held, as they then dragged into the city and the young Landgrave
been fed is and how it would have made sure poison, if not still on
His return would have hoped, "And now you're here, my dear, dear Leon,
and now Everything will be good!

"

"All right," Leon whispered. He wanted to sit up laboriously, but he almost slipped from the
bank because it took Bertha and supported him, that he clung to her side, her head on her hard
Shoulder. He pointed with his hand on the glass window and told her with faltering words, what it
had any relation with the glass.

"My only beloved, my bride," he said in a clear voice, "I have to doubt you, I've cursed if your
infidelity, but I must die now. You pure, loyal, " - And with the last strength he was, he said,
"Kiss me, forgive me," Then he reached! after his own heart, "Mother,"
he cried tortured and sore, "Mother," and he wanted Berta still smile,
but since the death had already stretched his body, he felt as if
he still get up able to escape him, he got up a bit, then he fell
on his lap Berta, his head fell backward, he was dead ...

Berta and
sat there, the body of her lover was above her knees, her rights based
its Head, on her left hand were his knees, and she bent her face over
his face, over be dead, disfigured face ...

Round but was evening,
deep dark blue evening in the forest, forest peace and holy quiet.

And in this infinitely sweet respiration of natural sat Berta, her longed beloved as Corpse
on her knees, her eyes looked blankly at his face, anxious sigh a child wailed in the darkness
of their lips. "Leon," she said, as the name of love had probably said a thousand times in the
evening, "Leon," but he did not answer, even though he there on her knees, heavy and oppressive,
was, and suddenly she realized that this Leon, her Leon, a lifeless, WAS. A furious pain suddenly
blazed up in her chest suddenly triggered the spasm in her throat, she breathed deeply, deeply,
as if they long endless breath would not last long, and then she let out a scream like a tortured
animal, screamed with horror, their power mocking voice, a voice against the birds of the forest
and they fled before hertrieb like a thunderstorm, a voice that shook the tower and the terrible
in its power not waned, the other side of the valley over there on the rocks anprallte zurückgellte
and from there, and she screamed, not knowing that she yelled, it was their salvation and they had
to yell, scream to life and death, now the head inclined, the dead to the deaf ears, not words
or sentences, but their terrible cry, such as her mother had then cried because it was entered
for the first time in her room, now the head back and throwing to the sky, screaming, pushing
up the cry of their tortured Youth, their dashed hopes, their injured shame and fear.


They reached the jail, a conspicuous stone building in the centre of the town, and were shown
into the condemned man's cell. The jailer announced them with the statement:

"Tim, here's two newspaper fellers from the East wants to see you."

The prisoner was lying on a pallet in the corner of his cell, and he raised himself on his
elbow when Harley and Hobart entered.

"You are writers for the papers?" he said.

"Yes, clean from New York; they are with Jimmy Grayson," the jailer answered for them.

"I don't know as I've got anythin' to say to you," continued the prisoner. "I 'ain't got no
picture to give you, an' if I had one I wouldn't give it. I don't want my hangin' to be all
wrote up in the papers, with pictures an' things, too, jest to please the people in the East.
If I've got to die, I'd rather do it quiet and peaceful, among the boys I know. I ain't no
free circus."

"We did not come to write you up; it was for another purpose," Harley hastened to say.

He was surprised at the youth of the prisoner, who obviously was not over twenty-one, a mere
boy, with good features and a look half defiant, half appealing.

"Well, what did you come for, then?" asked the boy.

Harley was unable to answer this question, and he looked at Hobart as if to indicate the one
who would reply. The "mystery" man did not seek to evade his responsibility in the least, and
promptly said:

"Mr. Boyd, I think you will acquit us of any intention to intrude upon you. It was the best
of motives that brought us to you. I have always had an interest in cases of this sort, and
when I heard of yours in the train, coming here, I received an impression then which has been
strengthened on my arrival in Grayville. I believe you are innocent."

The boy looked up. A sudden flash of gratitude, almost of hope, appeared in his eyes.

"I am!" he cried. "God knows I didn't kill Bill Wofford. He wuz my partner and we wuz like
brothers. We did quarrel that mornin'--I don't deny it--and we both had been liquorin'; but
I'd never hev struck him a blow of any kind, least of all a foul one."

"Was it not true that you were found with the bloody knife in your hand, standing over his
yet warm body?" asked Hobart.

"It's so, but it was somebody else that used the knife. Bill went on ahead, and when I come
into the place I saw him on the floor an' the knife in 'im. I was struck all a-heap, but I
did what anybody else would 'a' done--I pulled the knife out. And then the fellers come in
on me. I was rushed into a trial right away. Of course, I couldn't tell a straight tale; the
horror of it was still in my brain, and the effect o' the liquor, too. I got all mixed up--but
before God, gen'lemen, I didn't do it."

His tone was strong with sincerity, and his expression was rather that of grief than remorse.
Harley, who had had a long experience with all kinds of men in all kinds of situations, did
not believe that he was either bad or guilty. Hobart spoke his thoughts aloud.

"I don't think you did it," he said.

"Everybody believes I did," said Boyd, with pathetic resignation, "and I am to be hanged for
it. So what does it matter now?"

"I am going to look for the guilty man," said Hobart, decidedly.

Boyd shook his head and lay back on his pallet. The others, with a few words of hope, withdrew,
and, when they were outside, Harley said:

"Hobart, were you not wrong to sow the seed of hope in that man's mind when there is no hope?"

"There is hope," replied Hobart; "I have a plan. Don't ask me anything about it--it's vague
yet--but I may work it."

Harley glanced at him, and, seeing that he was intense and eager, with his mind concentrated
upon this single problem, resolved to leave him to his own course; so he spent part of the
day, a wonderful autumn Sunday, in a rocking-chair on the piazza of the hotel, and another
part walking with Sylvia. He told her of the murder case and Hobart's action, and her prompt
sympathy was aroused.

"Suppose he should really be innocent?" she said. "It would be an awful thing to hang an innocent
man."

"So it would. He certainly does not look like a bad fellow, but you know that those who are
not bad are sometimes guilty. In any event I fail to see what Hobart can do."

After the walk, which was all too brief, he returned to his rocking-chair on the piazza, but
Grayville, being a small place, he knew everything that was going on within it, by means of
a sort of mental telepathy that the born correspondent acquires. He knew, for instance, that
Hobart was all the time with one or the other of the three witnesses--Metzger, Thorpe, or Williams--for
the moment the most important persons in Grayville by reason of their conspicuous connection
with the great case.

When Hobart returned, the edge of the sun was behind the highest mountains; but he took no
notice of Harley, walking past him without a word and burying himself somewhere in the interior
of the hotel. Harley learned subsequently that he went directly to Jimmy Grayson's room, and
remained there at least half an hour, in close conference with the candidate himself.

The next day was a break in the great campaign. Owing to train connections, which are not trifles
in the Far West, it was necessary, in order to complete the schedule, to spend an idle day
at some place, and Grayville had been selected as the most comfortable and therefore the most
suitable. And so the luxurious rest of the group was continued for twenty-four hours for all--save
Hobart.

Harley had never before seen the "mystery" man so eager and so full of suppressed excitement.
He frequently passed his comrades, but he rarely spoke to them, or even noticed them; his mind
was concentrated now upon a great affair in which they would be of no avail. Harley learned,
however, that he was still much in the company of the three witnesses, although he asked him
no questions. Late in the afternoon he saw him alone and walking rapidly towards the hotel.
It seemed to Harley that Hobart's head was borne somewhat high and in a manner exultantly,
as if he were overcoming obstacles, and he was about to ask him again in regard to his progress,
but Hobart once more sped by without a word and went into the hotel. Harley learned later that
he held a secret conference with Jimmy Grayson.

In the evening everybody went to the opera-house to hear the candidate, but on the way Hobart
said, casually, to Harley: "Old man, I don't think I'll sit in front to-night. I wish you would
let me have your notes afterwards." "Of course," replied Harley, as he passed down the aisle
and found his chair at the correspondents' table on the stage.

There Harley watched the fine Western audience come into the theatre and find seats, with some
noise but no disorder, a noise merely of men calling each other by name, and commenting in
advance on what Jimmy Grayson would say. The other correspondents entered one by one--all except
Hobart, and took their seats on the stage. Sylvia and Mrs. Grayson were with some ladies in
a box. Harley looked for Hobart, and two or three times he saw him near the main entrance of
the building. Once he was talking with a brown and longish-haired youth, and Harley, by casual
inquiry, learned that it was Metzger, the cowboy. A man not greatly different in appearance,
to whom Hobart spoke occasionally, was Thorpe, the tramp miner, and yet another, a tall fellow
with a bulging underlip, Harley learned, was Williams, the third witness.

Evidently the witnesses would attend Jimmy Grayson's meeting, which was natural, however, as
every body in Grayville was sure to come, and Harley also surmised that Hobart had taken upon
himself the task of instructing them as to the methods, the manner, and the greatness of the
candidate. So this story may at least regarded
as a medieval, especially as she begins in the ancient Charles Street and ends.

There was then built up the house, which was previously described. It was not yet Roof, but should
be completed in a few weeks. It belonged to the prestige and wealth reached Prague citizen
and merchant Wenzel Foreman, who at the ground years ago, a cheap had purchased and whose favorite
idea was for his son and his former wife to build their own house, to live that he, as a native
citizen and businessman here and Foreman called to ever greater importance and would help.
For he himself was from humble beginnings to become a wealthy merchant and loved on earth anyone
more intimate than his son Karolus, the only legacy of his faithful wife Veronica presented.
He had let him get something decent, was once even with him in Vienna been to him to show the world,
and saw him in under his eyes to a capable and honest man grow up. Such was Karolus become
twenty-four and was a civilized, quiet, modest young man, slim, with gentle, somewhat shy eyes,
as his deceased mother had been and from which a sensitive and dreamy soul into the World looked. The
father Karolus was too modest even to gentle and shy, for he knew what his son had learned everything,
not only, as far as the business, but also by the liberal sciences and arts, and he would have
his son a little more proud and self-conscious desired. Karolus but the company of his peers did
not like particularly, he was a reader and a dreamer and was happy during the day in the evening
when he returned to his books could. The father forbade him not because Karolus in his business quietly
and safely Did work and was loved and respected by customers.

A thorough housewife will refresh it already be too gentle blood! thought the father and looked
so hard to foster among the daughters of citizens, which it probably
is best for his Single rail compatible.

And until the autumn, until the topping, he hoped a certain have made choice.

Now, however, were Karolus's relations with the female sex, more theoretical, so far was, he believed
the writers had their praises of the women got used to the word and,
the women with the eyes of the writing, not to be considered the loving
poet, but without ever feel an inner compulsion to test their hymns
and novels in their own hearts; the woman was to him something high
and lofty deed, was standing on the everyday life and charm to any
she poured out her cheeks were peach blossoms, her lips cherries,
her eyes shining Coals or pleasant Vergißmeinnichtblümlein, her walk
was like jumping of the sun's rays of flowery meadows, but that one
stroke the cheeks, the lips can kiss that one of the should embrace
petite figure, it was not for nothing, and drove him from his emerge
literary veneration of women and once a warm, living, thriving Child
access to heartily to her chin.

And only once he had felt a sort of infatuation, and that was on a Sunday afternoon when he
was on the small side over there under the royal castle, Hradcany, the shady streets and suddenly
was strolling in front of a beautiful wrought iron gate had stood and looked into a beautiful,
aristocratic garden: large lawns stretched rest comfortably in the sunshine, a round pool of water
and a light shone in the summer fine fountain splashing in the water moving down. The garden,
however, stretched far far from up the steep back of Prague Castle and the magnificent royal
castle the magnificent dome was like a fantastic culmination of the green, prosperous, far outstretched
Garden. In the garden, but walked in a white summer dress, a lean, flexible woman and the
sun itself seemed to be in love with her, so she jubilantly gathered
all their splendor golden around the delicate form of the lady, so
she let her light blond hair.

It was as whether one of the marble goddesses who were in the garden in the green bushes, from
their pedestals came down and was now in the sunlight to get caught between the beds. With
wide-open Karolus eyes gazed after her long, he had taken his hat from his head and it seemed
to him as if the lady he zulächle. He was still on the spots before the iron gate long after
the miracle had disappeared into the bushes and stared into the sunshine until the lids was
lower. Only when he heard voices near him, he woke up and looked surprised at himself. And he thought
he's not even later that he saw a lady living in the garden had, he was convinced that he
was only a beautiful story of a lovely princess I dreamed, as the tale of the white woman Medulina,
with flowers and fruits in hands through the meadows below. Some days he still dreamed of and was
happy that he could renew even in the day at will the beautiful dream, and he blushed when He
caught it again and again, as he, like a puppeteer, the beautiful, princely Dame again and
again the head tilt and wave to the listener before the grid was loving. It had curled but also
lovely, blonde ringlets over her neck blühweißen.

In this period of his heart now was pleasantly excited for the arrival of the Greenland Sea female
in Prague. Two fantastically polished drummer had shown by their appearance and were stood for
several days at all places and all the street corners, and had for a seditious Drum roll pt the
nobility and the citizens of the royal capital of Prague to the large Wonderful attention
that would arrive in the coming days. Lalanda, the Greenland Mermaid, the best Seeweibchen that
ever been caught, the lady with the fish tail, admired by all scholars of the world and as a
new wonder of the world marveled and glorified, will see in the next few days be in Prague. Large
images were carried around in the streets, Lalanda on, the Greenland Seekönigin was abgeschildert,
and everywhere was a lot Curious the drummers, which caused considerable excitement in the city.
Also they distributed a flying sheet, it reports the catch of the mermaid precisely, a delicate
poem was printed, the beauty of the lady with the fish tails in sweet
Verses praised.

You will be in Old Town Square in one of the big sale of the vault Pavilions are to see and sing in
their language, they speak well if your good Hour had and see friendly people, German to them,
as it represents a remarkable wisdom and possess an unprecedented memory. And be nicer than any girl
on the Continent been.

Now were just then a quiet passage of time, and Prague, the city, from time to time as a Child must
go through her fever to get rid of harmful substances, and fermentation to clean their blood for
several years, enjoyed a very comfortable rest after fighting and civil strife, so that Lalanda
had hit the right moment to general interest to meet. The messenger boy and apprentice of the
foreman's stores, their excess Vivacity had otherwise been raging in the Straßenaufläufen,
now took advantage of every free Moment, running along behind the drummers and always fresh note
with the Lalanda poems bring home, and the older gentlemen Commission and the two accountants in the
office conducted the most extensive discussions about the mermaids, and there was no expression
of life an adult, they do not in serious and playful relationship with the wonderful had brought
physique of the Greenland miracle. They surpassed each other in the Invention of new questions:>
if she were also "and" what may be with her, "only they had before Mr. Karolus in eight take
to preserve the delicacy of a tacit agreement in the House Foreman
was.

The course also had the drummers heard and read her note. But he had not yet found the right
position on the mermaid, just the fact that would be a miracle to see him busy and he had
decided on the very next Sundays, the first day that Lalanda should be issued to convince by evidence,
believe how far the announcements was.

II

There are few places on earth, measured at the beauty of the Old Town Square in Prague can
surround him magnificent palaces, strange houses, where one of the joy of the builders her
fantasy notes looking down on his patch, the old town hall dominates a Page with his seriously amusing
loggia and the graceful tower, which the wonderful astronomical Clock, houses and the magnificent
Church of Our Lady with its two projecting towers, which seriously gene Sky show, look on the gables,
houses with porches provided the other side proud of the place down, on which many great and
rich and played Historia drank the bottom of noble and ignoble human blood. She looks indifferently
on the ring down and wondered about the tiny little people that swarm over the place, they can
still their haste and bustle underground and do not understand how two stretches warning Finger their
towers significant against the sky.

But people pay little of the towers, because they always evenly in
stony silence remain their position, they have long given no impression
on the human mind, as this only appears wonderful, which differs from
the uniformity that is different than their sluggish performances.

Lalanda was a miracle! Such a thing had not been there, because she was beautiful and strange
same time, and that Sunday the Prague citizens flocked in their hundreds in the store on the Old Town
Square, to gaze at the never seen before, unbelievable. And a thousand citizens and farmers,
Satisfied curious and stood on the spot and exchanged their opinions about the mermaids out of
or listened to the lucky ones Lalanda, the beautiful Greenlander who had already seen.

The drummer, however, stood before the entrance of the vault, and it rang every quarter hour Drum
roll through the air, a sign that the intake of fresh visitors will be granted; then completed
the audience streamed out of the shop door out to the ring and a
new swarm of onlookers who had waited patiently at her post, was admitted.

"It's

really a miracle," said the party stepping out, and even a famous professor University, who had
been among the first visitors was shaking his head and apparently the highest degree surprising,
based on his stick and silently through the ranks of the exalted Saluting.

"It is wonderful, indeed most wonderful," he said to an acquaintance who eagerly had come to him.
"Many a report about mermaids (sirens), I have to wonder and read some suspicion, but now I
saw these Lalanda, I must believe in it. but has the sometimes capricious nature as one, God forgive
sin, like a cocky, playful child who is made of wax or dough strange or impossible shapes! But now Go
and be amazed yourself! I want in my museum, to be read in Eusebii
miraculis naturae, what this author has taught in this matter reported.

"

And he left, shaking his head and sunk in deep thought away from.

In the vault, however, urged the matterhellten curious to see more clearly Lalanda and hear better.
There was a large tub of water placed so that it up to the rear Wall of the spacious vault handed
and still be in the next room seemed to extend; because the water level up you could see a door into
an adjoining room, a reed-lined it, and thatched, the walls of the
large blade were covered, so that it looked like a small pond.

Also were large stone blocks set up to approach the walls of the pond, so that a wider Bank
was formed, lay on the moss and green lawns. was in the middle of the pond but Rocks of stones
built up and a strangely shaped harp was on this cliff-term island. And now, as the visitor for
a moment had been waiting breathlessly for the start of the performance, The door opened at
the back, the pond seemed to extend into the next room and the water came in Lalanda swim,
blonde, with disheveled hair and graceful, beautifully curved movements once they swam along
the shore of the pond, with large, the astonished eyes greeting people.

She was young and beautiful water lilies were in a flourishing Wreath
on her head, her eyes were round and the white hills of her virginal
bosom stood out from the neckline of her shimmering gold, scale-covered
bodice.

Of the hips downward but it was slim body in one hand, be striped, scaly, in the light shimmering
fish tail, as beautiful as a golden control the movements of her body seemed to distract and sometimes
as arrogant lashed the water. So she swam with almost solemn Peace around the pond, well rested
for a moment, by participating in the Borden of the pond held and picked up a couple of soft,
ring-adorned fingers out of the water. She swung then a little out of the water and laid the scaly
tail neatly on the edge the pond and allowed a smile with sparkling teeth that some nosy their
hands cool fish body touched. Only if the touches would be a little bolder, they had to slide
rapidly into the water and laughed when the splashing drops the all-too bold quenched. Then
she swam quietly and turned away from the banks against the cliff on they jumped up to respire a
few moments. She grabbed onto the strings of the harp some lost as afar sounding chords, her eyes
were dreamy and longing and, from this homesick feeling out sounded delicate and touching her strange,
unintelligible song. »Lalanda, Lalanda" it died away. She put the harp in his hand, looked
again from their large eyes of children in a circle around and then had her still in the water .
Slide The door in the back of the room opened, and with graceful arm movements and round she said
the water and disappeared from view.

The audience stared after her speechless, for she was really beautiful in their peace and youth,
and many who had come in to mock and sneer, shook his head admiringly and walked away from believing
heart.

"This is a real miracle," said a prominent citizen, the very front on the banks of the pond stood.

"And it would be," said a neighbor, "a miracle of grace and beauty when the fish tail should
not have! "

"I'm truly sorry for it," said another and wiped it with his handkerchief arg splashed gently
Rock me "'m sorry that I did not brought my consort have, here, any respectable woman without
blushing look at. "

"Only you would they feel in the presence of your wife may not be as thorough," joked a. "You just wiping
until your Sunday coat from belonging that they notice nothing!"

The others laughed and pushed their way slowly to the exit of the
vault.

On the wall but Karolus foreman stood, speechless, senseless, and he was still staring after the door
through which the blond wonder was gone, his eyes wide open and saw
it not, his lips twitched, as if he wanted to cry, but jumped at the
heart in his chest like a bird that looks like dark night of the sun.

 Mr. Heathcote threw back his slightly narrow chest,
and, drawing three deep breaths of just the same length, he said, "I would not miss this trip
for a thousand dollars!"

"And I wouldn't for two thousand!" exclaimed Sylvia, joyously.

Harley said nothing, but he, too, looked out upon the morning world with a kindling eye. Far
below them was a narrow valley, a faint green line down the centre showing where the little
river ran, with the irrigated farms on either side, like beads on a string. Above them towered
the peaks, white with everlasting snow.

"A fine day for our ride," said the candidate to Jim.

"Looks like it now, though I never gamble on mountain weather," replied the taciturn man.

But the promise held good for a long time, the sun still shining and the winds coming fresh
and brisk along the crests and ridges. The trail wound about the slopes and steadily ascended.
Vegetation ceased, and before them stretched the bare rocks. Harley knew very well now that
only the sunshine saved them from grimness and desolation. The loneliness became oppressive.
Even Sylvia was silent. It was the wilderness in reality as well as seeming; nowhere did they
see a miner's hut or a hunter's cabin, only nature in her most savage form.

The little group of horsemen forgot to talk. The candidate's head was bowed and his brow bent.
Clearly he was immersed in thought. Mr. Heathcote, unused to such arduous journeys, leaned
forward in his saddle in a state of semi-exhaustion. But Sylvia, although a girl, was accustomed
to the mountains, and she showed few signs of fatigue. Harley said at last to the guide, "A
wild country, one of the wildest, I think, that I ever saw."

"Yes, a wild country, and a bad 'un, too," responded Jim. "See off there to the left?"

He pointed to a maze of bare and rocky ridges, and when he saw that Harley's gaze was following
his long forefinger, he continued:

"I say it's a bad 'un, because over there Red Perkins and his gang of horse-thieves, outlaws,
and cut-throats used to have their hiding-place. It's a tangled-up stretch o' mountain, so
wild, so rocky, so full of caves that they could have hid there till jedgment-day from all
Montana. Yes, that's where they used to hang out."

"Used to?"

"Yes, 'cause I 'ain't heard much uv them fur some time. They came down in the valley and tried
to stampede them new blooded horses from Kentucky on Sifton's ranch, but Sifton and his men
was waitin', and when the smoke cleared off most uv the gang was wiped out. Red and two or
three uv his fellers got away, but I 'ain't heard uv 'em since. Guess they've scattered."

"Wisest thing they could do," said Harley.

The guide made no answer, and they plodded on in silence until about two o'clock in the afternoon,
when they stopped in a little cove to eat luncheon and refresh their horses.

It was the first grateful spot they had seen in hours. A brook fed by the snows above formed
a pool in the hollow, and then, overflowing it, dropped down the mountain-wall. But in this
sheltered nook and around the life-giving water green grass was growing, and there was a rim
of goodly trees. The horses, when their riders dismounted, grazed eagerly, and the riders themselves
lay upon the grass and ate with deep content.

Sylvia talked little. She seemed thoughtful, and, when neither of them was looking, she glanced
now and then at Harley and "King" Plummer. Had they noticed they would have seen a shade of
sadness on her face. Mr. Plummer did not speak, and it was because there was a growing anxiety
in his mind. He was sorry now that they had let Sylvia come, and he silently called himself
a weak fool.

"Shall we reach Crow's Wing by dark?" asked the candidate of the guide.

Jim had risen, and, standing at the edge of the cove, was gazing out over the rolling sea of
mountains. Harley noticed a troubled look on his face.

"If things go right we kin," he replied, "but I ain't shore that things will go right."

"What do you mean?"

"Do you see that brown spot down there in the southwest, just a-top the hills? Waal, it's a
cloud, an' it's comin' this way. Clouds, you know, always hev somethin' in 'em."

"That is to say we shall have rain," said the candidate. "Let it come. We have been rained
on too often to mind such a little thing--eh, Sylvia? You see, I take you at your word."

The girl nodded.

"I don't think it'll be rain," said the guide. "We are so high up here that more 'n likely
it'll be snow. An' when there's a snow-storm in the mountains you can't go climbin' along the
side o' cliffs."

The others, too, looked grave now. Perhaps, with the exception of "King" Plummer, they had
not foreseen such a difficulty, but the guide came to their relief with more cheering words--after
all, the cloud might not continue to grow, "an' it ain't worth while to holler afore we're hit."

This seemed sound philosophy to the others, and, dismissing their cares, they started again,
much refreshed by their stop in the little cove. They were ashamed
Suddenly, her raw military song in the deep, sacred pain that black women , Hineinzuschreien
and the best of them suspected of eternity. They lowered the large wreath stuck in the Evergreen
cards with their names down at the very end of the grave, as empfänden it not true that he
who walked up to this place hand in hand with them , was not more fully to them was not at least
in his own most desire. But
the correspondent said nothing. Part of his strength lay in his ability to wait, and he knew
that the guide would speak in good time.

"Don't any of you be discouraged because of me," said Sylvia; "I'm not afraid of storms--even
snowstorms. Am I not a good mountaineer, daddy?"

The "King" nodded his head. He knew that she was a better mountaineer than any in the party
except the guide and himself, and he felt less alarm for her than was in the mind of Grayson
or Harley.

But Harley was thrilled by her courage. Here, amid these wild mountains, with the threat of
darkness and the storm, she was unafraid and still feminine. "This is a woman to be won," was
his unuttered thought.

Another hour passed, and the air grew darker and colder. Then Jim stopped.

"Gentlemen," he said, "there's a snow-storm comin' soon. I didn't expect one so early, even
on the mountains, but it's comin', anyhow, an' if we keep on for Crow's Wing they'll have to
dig our bones out o' the meltin' drifts next summer. We've got to make for Queen City."

"Queen City!" exclaimed Mr. Heathcote. "I didn't know there was another town anywhere near here."

"She's a-standin' all the same," replied the guide, brusquely, "an' I wouldn't never hev started
on the trip to Crow's Wing if there hadn't been such a stoppin'-place betwixt an' between,
in case o' trouble with the weather. An' let me whisper to you, Queen City's quite a sizable
place. We'll pass the night there. It's got a fine hotel, the finest an' biggest in the mountains."

He looked grimly at Mr. Heathcote, as much as to say, "Ask me as much more as you please, but
I'll answer you nothing." Then he added, glancing at Sylvia:

"It's a wild night for a gal."

"But you said that the biggest and finest hotel in the mountains was waiting for me," replied
Sylvia, with spirit.

The guide bowed his head admiringly, and said no more.

Something cold and damp touched Harley's cheek. He looked up, and another flake of snow, descending
softly, settled upon his face. The clouds rolled over them, heavy and dark, and shut out all
the mountains save a little island where they stood. The snow, following the first few flakes,
fell softly but rapidly.

"It's Queen City or moulderin' in the drifts till next summer!" cried Jim, and he turned his
horse into a side-path. The others followed without a word, willing to accept his guidance
through the greatest peril they had yet faced in an arduous campaign. Despite the danger, which
he knew to be heavy and pressing, and his anxiety for Sylvia, Harley's curiosity was aroused,
and he wished to ask more of Queen City, but the saturnine face of the guide was not inviting.
Nevertheless, he risked one question.

"How far is this place, Queen City?" he asked.

"Bout two miles," replied Jim, with what seemed to Harley a derisive grin, "an' it's tarnal
lucky for us that it's so near."

Harley said no more, but he was satisfied with nothing in the guide's reply save the fact that
the town was only two miles away; any shelter would be welcome, because he saw now that a snow-storm
on the wild mountains was a terrible thing.

The guide led on; Jimmy Grayson, with bent head, followed; Mr. Heathcote, shrunk in his saddle,
came next; then "King" Plummer; and after him Sylvia and Harley, who were as nearly side by
side as the narrow path would permit.

"It won't be far, Miss Morgan," said Harley; the others could not hear.

She felt rather than heard the note of apprehension in his voice, and she knew it was for her.
A thrill of singular sweetness passed over her. It was pleasant for some one, the one, to be
afraid for her sake. She looked out at the driving snow and the dim peaks, but she had no fear
for herself. She was glad, too, that she had come.

"I know the way of the mountains," she replied. "The guide will take us in safety to this city
of his, of which he speaks so highly."

Harley saw her smile through the snow. The others rode on before, heads bowed, and did not
look back. He and she felt a powerful sense of comradeship, and once, when he leaned over to
detach her bridle rein from the horse's mane, he touched her hand, which was so soft and warm.
Again the electric thrill passed through them both, and they looked into each other's eyes.

Now and then the vast veil of snow parted before the wind, as if cleft down the centre by a
sword-blade, and Harley and Sylvia beheld a grand and awful sight. Before them were all the
peaks and ridges, rising in white cones and pillars against the cloudy sky, and the effect
was of distance and sublimity. From the clefts and ravines came a desolate moaning. Harley
felt that he was much nearer to the eternal here than he could ever be in the plains. Then
the rent veil would close again, and he saw only his comrades and the rocks twenty feet away.

They turned around the base of a cliff rising hundreds of feet above them, and Harley caught
the dull-red glare of brick walls, showing through the falling snow. He was ready to raise
a shout of joy. This he knew was Queen City, lying snugly in its wide valley. There was the
typical, single mountain street, with its row of buildings on either side; the big one near-by
was certainly the hotel, and the other big one farther on was as certainly the opera-house.
But nobody was in the streets, and the whole place was dark; not a light appeared at a single
window, although the night had come.

"We're here," Harley said to Sylvia, "but I confess that this does not look promising. Certainly
there is nobody running to meet us."

She was gazing with curiosity.

"It's like no other town that I ever saw," she said.

Harley rode up by the side of the guide.

"The place looks lonesome," he said.

"Maybe they've all gone to bed; there ain't anythin' here to keep 'em awake," replied the guide,
with the old puzzling and derisive smile.

Harley turned coldly away. He did not like to have any one make fun of him, and that he saw
clearly was the guide's intention. Jimmy Grayson was still thinking of things far off, and
Mr. Heathcote, chilled and shrunk, seemed to have lost the power of speech. "King" Plummer,
for reasons of his own, was silent too.

The guide rode slowly towards the large brick building that Harley took to be the hotel, and,
at that moment, the snow slackened for a little while; the last rays of the setting sun struck
upon the dun walls and gilded them with red tracery; some panes of glass gave back the ruddy
glare, but mostly the windows were bare and empty, like eyeless sockets. Harley looked farther,
and all the other buildings--the opera-house, the stores, and the residences--were the same,
desolate and decaying. About the place were snow-covered heaps, evidently the refuse of mining
operations, but they saw no human being.

The effect upon all save the guide was startling. Harley saw the look of chilled wonder grow
on Jimmy Grayson's face. Mr. Heathcote raised himself in his saddle and stared, uncomprehending. And so in love she was in all purity of heart and
childlike delight in the beautiful face in the mirror, that she did not lowered, if about a
few farmers met her by the way, or a traveling companion toward her to nachzustaunen the lovely
open-mouthed wonder. She was so beautiful beyond all measure, that none of the men would have
dared to recreate her because he had to look her so long with open eyes, until they went to
him and he lowered his eyelids. But then the miracle was have long disappeared, and he thought
he had dreamed sure, and if he is a fabulist and was songwriter, he sat down and devised a
rhyme on the same gracious dream; so that from those days, quite a number of songs are sing about
the wonders of walking: > Tandarada, what miracle happened to me today! <

When she was now so changed to Black Castle, to the sun had just laid to rest and the moon was
not out slipped out of the Abendmäntelchen a silver-rimmed cloud, so that those indescribably beautiful
twilight reigned, that is without shade and without luster, Clarissa and finally lowered her
mirror. She entered a house and asked for a bite Bread and a sip of milk before bedtime. The
peasant, however, in which they occurred was been one of the messengers who had returned from
the Virgin looking flat, and without the gracious Clarissa even asking, he went posthaste
to the castle, so each Doubt he was sure that now the sought Virgin had come from himself, whose
appearance They all eagerly awaited. As he breathlessly directed his message at the castle had got
up in the evening Schwarzburg a great joy and happiness noise, the almost the snoring Ritter had
awakened when he is not such a blessed sleep in his evil disease would have saved. All the servants
and all the villagers came to the house in the Clarissa with the mirror was sitting by the window
and her hair arranged in the moonlight. And before they would have a word can say they knew
the whole story of the poor melancholy Earl, whose savior she was destined by fate. And without
them, this Feeling was extremely conscious of so pure and without blemish she was, she was happy but, for
their take flight from the monastery a kind of penance upon himself to, and agreed without
a lot of questions and speeches one to make a pilgrimage with the sick knight of the Holy Rome.
And it was a great and sincere jubilation in Schwarzburg.

The next day was to the castle with a great noise on the preparations
pilgrimage the melancholy Heinrich addressed.

And never have tailors and cobblers managed to work as quickly and promptly and delivered as now for
the count, because everyone was really happy in his heart, the Lord so beautifully moody sick and
sacred way for some time to get rid of. But he now lamented the more so as it be should leave
the tower room where he had the unacknowledged but very much felt about like a bachelor who
does not tolerate that his bed be shaken every day because he happy is to have a cozy pit pressed
into the mattress. He sighed and cursed worse than a carter and cursed a hundred times the Medicus,
which he so arduous Healing had prescribed. He watched it carefully any piece of his travel
equipment and gave the travel section of his shell to carefully puffed, the shoemaker, who had
dared him to build a pair of peasant boots, and prepared at all to the very best for the trip, without
providing so much as a thought for the Virgin, but the same problems arising from the weather and hardships
should bear the paths. He ordered a Habit for rainy weather and one for sunshine, weather coats,
and a manta, meant until he finally that it unfortunately can not accompany ministers on the part
of pilgrims to carry the things. The lighted him well also, so we took a tour jacket for Clares,
which the Graf had made ready for themselves, so they dress into it, and a pilgrim, that they protect
themselves against the hot sun of Italy. Then one day the unthinkable happened, that the fat
knight, having regard to the shoulder of his servant, the stairs of his tower herunterpolterte
and in a brand new travel robe ended up in the castle hall.

There they had also brought Clarissa, that they take the count in reception and with it walk to Rome.
Previously, almost as provision, they had a meal but the Knights prepared, which united the
most exquisite, which may have an ever feasted pilgrims to Rome.

The unfortunate Henry sat in his armchair and his cheeks stuffed full as a hamster and did
not notice that faced a large wall mirror his companion, with laughing eyes, her face and her
new dress and admiring her mirror behind her Main holding, so that she could also look from
behind. She had her eyes barely believed, as seen when entering the hall on the wall a mirror,
a truly Mirror, only that he was tall and was stuck on the wall. And he made this big mirror
their the room now familiar, the count value and their pilgrimage erfolgverheißend. And so was
They stopped in front of the beautiful mirror and was glad. Since they now the count by the
servant to saw her attention, he hit the same rough with his fist on the table so that the plates
dancing and a full can of wine ran.

"That can be a great trip," he swore then, "with such a vain woman to hiking; damned medic! "

Clarissa
had turned around and looked at him with her lovely eyes, now that your Mirror had always had
a happy gloss and shone with joy, and she came Now, by the cowl,
the walled her body, something he took up his hat much too large in
the neck, pushed approached the knight, beautiful and playful, like
a carnival dream, and sat down with him.

Whether this was the confiding boldness almost put the bite on the neck. He had to take a gulp
of wine to turn it hinabzuspülen.

Then sighed He deeply, and finally, the two pilgrims made their pilgrimage. And by Trellis of the
gaping peasants who forgot about their Lord with admiration almost sincerely, modified, contrary
to the steep Schloßweg down the cool valley. And when they arrived in the valley and were
from the tower where the knight had lived, a trumpet fanfare greeting them in travel nachschmetterte,
it was as if flowed together in this trumpet sounds all Erlösungsjauchzer, the black castle today
whether the statement uttered his master.

Because he would return even cured ....

IV

So the two, the poor sick pilgrims with his beautiful companion of
the road.

But the knight was far too selfish man than that he accompanied the
Virgin regarded as a great sacrifice, would have and took it rather
as a matter of course Not at all commendable way by the girl's arm
heartily exploits as a support each handout requested by it, and so
remained a surly and annoying fellow, as he It had always been.

Each step was the cause of a new deep sigh for him, any food that he offered in the hostels
was poor, an opportunity to read Dissatisfaction, so that the poor Clarißchen in the first
few days not to come, their treasure from the mantle and bring out to indulge their lust. Only
the evening before it in any Attic or shed their weary limbs to the stock extended, while their
fat man and master the best bed of the host had joined the right, succeeded her at times to
to rejoice in their beauty and see with sincere pleasure, as her blond hair was longer and
gently curled around her shoulders, her cheeks flushed red or as a healthy and brownish red that
her comely decorum. And it was everywhere, wherever they went, a a sensation with her, and
always had the melancholy Graf delicate or marked Allusions to hear what I have for a beautiful
girl he had taken along on the trip.

But these words fell down next to his ears, without his worth considering for a was because the poor
so any pleasure in woman had vanished and he always just be bad luck and thought to be suffering,
at most, that he made a smart face if it, the people whether once praised his taste quite good,
because he felt good, as so very be considered more refined and tasteful
pilgrims.

For as much as he sighed and moaned and, did him the ample outdoor exercise but well, and the
forces returned every day again more in the building of his handsome body. Its pale color drained
a slight Red and the weight of his arm was always easier to round the shoulder of his supporter,
soon as he could even step out properly, even if he had not been over every stone the road or
at rain drops, the wetted him to let go of a decent curse. The flowering Clarissa maintained and
looked after him like a mother and a non-flow of my happiness she insisted, she should wait
for a man so sick and this great and violent man like a child depended on it.

So they walked silently through the first landing, except that the curses of the knight and his
Curses accompanied their steps. For he was not curious, after the life of his companion to ask or
to search for their wishes. But after a few days it was Clarissa is no longer so silent next to
the sad knight go hand in hand, and started saying report of her life that was even easy to take
on, and the Count let her, because him the way in this way was less
monotonous.

He probably forgot several times to presented, and even after several days because of the
speech stream to silt up his companion cry started questions they answered in their lively and friendly
manner. And then it came so far that the girl he reluctantly and gruffly told his life, without
much consideration for Jungfrauentum her so that she had heard much of what you deserved night's
sleep with evil Disturbed dreams and made them thoughtful and scary. Then they comforted only
eye in the mirror which showed her how well you fit the dark red that suddenly her cheeks by
glowed, and how strangely lit up her eyes and pursed her lips when she thought of the speeches
of the sick knight. She could now her hair, her about the Flooded back down, turn in the shimmering
gold braiding and enjoying himself now so long, to place them in different turns around the head,
into flowers and ribbons and assign their to give wide-brimmed pilgrim's all kinds of adventurous
types, depending on their mood, hopefully swinging or boldly pushed to the side as a female
Rinaldo. And she was always delighted with their new vision. By day, but they migrated to the
brave South and even in the midst of the valleys of the Alps were reached when her one day Ritter
became ill.

V.

But it was not a serious illness, which fell in the count, but only the outbreaks his pain
and his depression over his sufferings were so enormous that a Clarissa it felt great fear.
He did last night in the nearby Alps sweet home drank a little too much of the sour wine country
and a little too much the juicy flesh have awarded, so that he could
call in the night at his camp.

He lay groaning and moaning in his bed and tossed restlessly to and
fro, exclaiming that this is now his last hour is here and he would
die lonely and abandoned.

He tore up the sheets and scraped the plaster of the wall in rage and pain, shouting that they lured
him here have to let him die miserably. The villain from a farmer had poisoned him safe, burn it
in the bowels and so mad he feels pain. He threw from time to Time furtive glances at the frightened
Clarissa whether his actions only, the correct Overall impression conveyed by it and realize
what a godforsaken martyr him.

Clarissa was the stock jumped up when they came to wake her, and had only affected the mantle
upset because she was rushed to the house roaring knights. Now she was standing by his Bearings
and bent over him, softly stroking her fingers over his forehead, and the Her coat was, without noticing
it, slipped from his shoulders. She was standing there in their Beauty, the waters of her golden
hair, shouted over her snow-white neck and her full gleaming shoulders, and her virginal bosom
lifted the groblinnene shirt.

So she leaned over the Count, again for the first time since long, long years Well-being and glory
of a woman looking at some excitement. But he was too stubborn Ling himself than that he would
have moaned about less, but he rolled all the more unruly on his bed and did not spare with curses
and insults, pushed the caressing hand Clarisse from his face and threw the cold cloth that she
wanted to put him on the head far into the corner.

As the frightened girl knelt in agony in addition to the camp of the ill count down and prayed
in their agony fervently to God and called the mother God's help, a warm and intimate, and not as one
that with a gift from the devil himself around leads. But suddenly she noticed her reflection in the
sense, and because he it as a miracle and some blessed and Medicated had appeared, she rose
and hurried into her room, to bring the Knights their treasure so that he mind his heart heal.

When
the knight saw her return to the mirror in her hand and she was before the glass be Face held
in her chastity and purity of heart, as he uttered a terrible curse because he believed that
they would mock him and then threw the mirror with full force on the ground that it splintered
into a hundred pieces, but then, as if his last strength could have been spent, he fell back
on his pillow, stretched and slept quietly and painlessly one.

Clarissa was dropped with a loud cry in the knees, and it seemed as if her beloved mirror her
heart would break into pieces. Then, when they Mondscheiner shone against the Window looked, it
seemed to her as the Mother of God would be outside, just as beautiful and lovely like the picture
on the altar in the monastery to which they now thought the first time with sadness and regret,
and they were regarded with a serious and long glances. As she bent her forehead and prayed for
a long, long for the salvation of her knight.

Then she lay down, as if the patient so quiet and satisfied saw sleeping on the floor beside
his bed and slept through until morning.

VI.

The next day, when the knight awoke in the morning ahead of his beautiful companion, was him much,
much better than he wanted to admit.

And the first thing to him when he awoke occurred, was not his pain,
but the picture of gracious nurse, how you feel about had bent him
and stroked his forehead.

He looked full at her beautiful blond hair Flood neck and mild approach to the bosom of the
hill decent shirt and knotted closed the same again as a gourmet and gourmet from earlier times,
the eyelids to to immerse themselves in this lovely morning image. When he opened his eyes again
and saw the girl lying on the floor, his right arm under the beautiful head, as with half-open
lips slumbered peacefully, as he looked with some complacency on the Sleeper and was not tired
of looking at them. Hardly, however, that Clarissa opened her eyes, than the looks of the count
she had awakened, and he quickly looked like a defiant schoolboy aside, closing his eyes and
feigning sleep, until at last with a deep sigh woke up and greeted with exclamations of pain
the young day. Not an eye he had all the Closed at night, he lied in his same old way, though
he might seem the have made impression of a sleeper. A man knows himself to just take and not winseler
around like a woman, if only the pain a little be tolerable. Clarissa, of course, He said toxic, was
there lying on the ground and I snored like a saw through wood cross, that he therefore had
not been able to fall asleep, and then he cried out for his morning snack, because otherwise
it burned his stomach.

Clarissa got up and had his coat pulled around, then they brought the Knights his food, then
read carefully the broken pieces together and carried them sad in her room. They hid there in her
poor little cloth as a precious possessions, without the slightest to feel pleasure, to inspect the
fragments in her face.

Because she was so strange in the Heart ever since that night, that they constantly think of
the Count and his pain had to with a deep, heartfelt sympathy and sad feelings about the fact
that he so harshly her hand was pushed away, and she wanted nothing more than her hand again
Laying on his forehead to be allowed. So they quickly made ready, and then hurried back down
in the office of the knight to take care of him when he needed her.

And he needed them very much. He accepted their handouts as a matter of course and was so rough
when he felt a strange inner compulsion, always away from her Fondling and maintain leave. And
the more intimate and loving they are adopted, the more uneven, and
he was worse, because there are poor people who are only happy when
they can torment.

In the heart but he had only one wish, that night will be back soon may so call it again to Clare
and the curve of her shoulders and the loveliness could inspect her body. However, he was
in bed, ate and drank like a healthy person, of course, he said, without hunger and need, only
to right to break up soon again.

So slowly was evening now and Clarissa had asked if they find him on the ground should create. As
they arrived, however, was poor. It should leave them alone and in checks her room, he wanted to
sleep today and he could not do their snoring.

He turned to the wall and stubbornly silent on all of their questions so that she finally abandoned,
to press him, and quietly slipped them out of the room.

She lay on her bed and sighed sadly and sighed long and could not sleep . See

VII

She was barely asleep when was knocked on the door again and the hosts
they came because of the sick poor knight had his attack again.

She had in her room not drawn out and then took to her coat and hurried frightened and full of warm
Compassion in the room of the martyr. It seemed to be worse than that night in the previous one,
at least the sad Henry shouted furious and threw himself angrier in bed back and forth. It
was just a run of excellent play, which he performed himself, because he unacknowledged longing
for the lovely nurse had been unable to sleep and only wish they let him back in his shirt
as yesterday, assist with disheveled hair and bend lovingly over his camp. When he therefore in
the jacket and dress with attached braids looked connect in the room melted away his imagination
before her gray habit and he was extremely angry that his secret wish did not comply. For he had
for the first time since his illness, the whole evening only one wish plagued to nestle right
direction at the breast of the gracious Clarissa, caress her neck and to be embraced by their
full arms.

She had made her little lamp on the table and leaned on the arms now, his forehead touching. He was
also the fallen today, just as if in a sudden Will Toll of pain in
her coat clutched and pulled.

Clarissa shook and trembled with pity with his sorrow and sighing right from my heart, because
they find him doing nothing he had to stand and remove his suffering was not so. She stressed on
the mild Hair and said to him with a tender voice, as if he were a sick child that they in the
wanted to sleep weigh. And as the knight groaned and moaned with chattering teeth, that him
cold, as they sat on the edge of the bed to him and spread her cloak over his Blanket. And he
embraced her in terrible fear and pressed it to be hot and his heaving chest that went by and
they see and hear it in her virginal love to him, was willing to sacrifice him everything he
wanted too. She did not resisted, as He fumbled with her dress and to go to bed took. And a
vague and wide Happiness and the sacred pity for the poor melancholy Count, but at this moment
even not at all melancholy, she flowed through that she had to close my eyes and the embraces
of the Knight led involuntarily.

And watched as the light went out early and the sun rays in the room were the two in quiet sleep next
to each other and the arm of the knight was tenderly under the beautiful head the pilgrim.

But soon she was awakened by the sun rays. She ran her first on the forehead, as if to to remember
something, so she felt fantastic, but then poured over a deep red their Cheeks, tears fell from
her eyes and a tremor went through her body.

She was happy, that the poor Count was still asleep next to her and she did not have to look
into the eyes, raised quickly out of bed and escaped to her room. There she threw herself against
her own poor Bearing on his knees, hid her face in the pillow and remained so in infinite Confusion
into which it from far away a fine Silberglöcklein herüberläutete of happiness, and feelings
of the most ardent shame, but without the false affectation of remorse, as they the knight
in sincere sympathy and heartfelt love had given himself. But then she got up and prayed that
the Holy Mother of God take mercy on their victims and use for the benefit of the Knight may, that
he finally released from his severe illness and melancholy of his will.

The Knights, however, was awakened with the feeling of exhaustion and sweet dawned in his bed to himself.
He thought not with a thought to the victims of the Virgin, but was
is a large proudly that he had carried out their pieces so well, and
dreamed again love of adventure and enterprise, as if the past years
only a would have been bad jokes and all the ladies sat on still,
waiting for the handsome Henry of their grief of love mercy.

But then, as the hunger came forward, he called for his nurse, because even with the downcast eyes,
came to bring him his morning snack.

And if the knight would only have been a bit clever, he would have in front of her happiness
Views must jubilation. For when she came now with a bent neck to his camp and hardly good morning
on the quivering lips did, as the finest red flared in her cheeks and she was so unspeakably beautiful
in her shame and confusion, that before the sun admiration very drunk
flattered her figure and her blonde hair shone like pure gold.

The Henry was sad but now through his years of martyrdom so corrupt and stubborn, that he raised
a great wailing and exclaiming over and over again that this night his Pilgrimage and its cure
have lost, because he would have with a pure virgin to come to Rome. Now he must forever remain
sick and needy, the have the damned Medicus so finely threaded and the devil had helped him.
 The others
rode on ahead, not noticing, and Harley was not one to let time slip through his fingers.

"You must not speak in this way to me again," she said, at last, although her tone was not
sad, only firm, "because it is not right. I knew that it was wrong, even while you were saying
it, but I could not stop you. You know you cannot change what is fixed, and I must marry Mr.
Plummer."

Harley laughed joyously. Later he did not know why he was so confident then, but the air of
the mountains and a new fire, too, were sparkling in his veins, and at that moment he had no
doubts.

"You will not marry Mr. Plummer," he repeated, with energy, "and it is not you that will break
the promise. It is he that shall give it back to you."

For the time she felt his faith, and her face glowed, but her courage left her when the "King,"
who had been ahead with the candidate, dropped back towards the rear and joined them.

"King" Plummer, too, had begun that return journey with feelings of exhilaration. Everything
in the trip from Crow's Wing appealed to him, because it was so thoroughly in consonance with
his early life in the mountains. The adventure in Queen City had stirred his blood, and around
him were familiar things. He, too, wished that an organized band of bandits would come, because
in his younger days he had helped to hunt down some of the worst men in the mountains, and
the old fighting blood mounted as high as ever in his veins.

He had seen that Sylvia was entirely recovered from the alarms of the night at Queen City,
and then, because he felt that it was his duty, and because there was a keen zest in it, too,
he rode on ahead with the candidate, to whom he pointed out dim blue peaks that he knew, and
to whom he laid down the proposition that those mountains were full of minerals, and would
one day prove a source of illimitable wealth to the nation.

The crispness of the morning, the vast expanse of mountain, and the feeling of deep, full life
made the "King's" blood tingle. His years of hardship, danger, and joy--and he had enjoyed
his life greatly--swept before him, and he laughed under his breath; life was still very good.
After a while the thought of Sylvia came to him, and he smiled again, because Sylvia was truly
good to look upon. He rode back towards her, and then he received a blow--a blow square in
the face, and dealt heavily.

"King" Plummer's was not a mind trained to look upon the more delicate shades of life--he dealt
rather with the obvious; but when he saw Harley and Sylvia he knew. Mrs. Grayson's warning,
which at first he had only half accepted, had come true, and it had come quickly. His instant
impulse was that of the primitive man to raise his fist and strike down this foolish, this
presumptuous youth who had dared to cross the path of him, the King of the Mountains; but he
did not raise it, because "King" Plummer was a gentleman; instead, he strove to conceal the
fact that he was breathing hard and deep, and he spoke to them in a tone that he sought to
render careless, but which really had an unnatural sound. Sylvia gave him a glance that was
half fear, and had the "King" taken notice it would have filled him with deep pain, but Harley,
who alone of the three retained his self-possession, spoke lightly of passing things. The feeling
of exulting strength was not yet gone from him; in the presence of this man of great achievement
he was not afraid, and, moreover, the desire to protect Sylvia, to turn attention from her,
was strong within him. In the old
books is nothing reported. But as the church records of the old royal capital of Prague the
name Karolus foreman, Prague citizens and holders of the house> <To mermaids and beside it
a different name, who does not like and very Lalanda Not at all romantic sounds, Barbara Foreman,
born Knobloch, daughter of a house- and garden manager of the Town under the Prague Castle,
and it is guaranteed that Karolus she called in tender moments Medulina. And follows in the books
on these two names a lot of children.

Thus, this remarkable story includes also historical, as it began, and who does not believe, let
him quietly read in the Chronicle of the Royal City of Prague. He is they are recorded there and
see in the Charles Street today for the house that the same Name as this story. Then he likes shaking
his head and thoughtfully through the Charles Street further proceed to the Vltava. But there he will
open his eyes wide and up to Prague Castle look over, the Royal Castle, the magnificent and majestic
herübergrüßt on the height and he will feel that one of this city, it dominates the Prague Castle,
only historical can tell stories, weird and wonderful history, as these females from the sea.

Der
Spiegel

A legend

I.

At that time, in which the poet must move every right and fair to their legends, because in
those days of the Savior and the Mother of God still had a pleasure to draw people - Young parents
the same, which prepares the child-rearing or joy and pleasure - to those So time was just off the
highway in the middle of a vast forest, beautiful nunnery of strict morals, in which, far from
the noise and haste of the world, a contemplative nuns and led her heavenly bridegroom obedient life.
The silence in the monastery was a so great and the soporific power of habit, supported by the uniform
noise of the forest, so overwhelming that the scourge dusty on the
wall and the pious women were old and venerable previously lived,
and that a cloud hovered over the sanctity of the monastery.

So it is understandable that the evil irrefutable felt a desire, in this monastery to try his
skill, and that he was the Madonna, as he once out of the monastery
gate walk, saw in his boldness called to the castle of piety is probably
not so impregnable, as they think.

As he saw the Madonna with her dark eyes - as the divine Raphael handed down to us has - penetrating,
and said: "On the threshold of this monastery at your power ends.

And I'm so sure of my cause that I allow you so long to dwell in it, as I here say an Our Father.
"

The Evil shuddered as he called> speak the Lord's Prayer <heard, but
he composed himself very soon and replied:

"Well, I am satisfied
with this permit, tarry here, and before you ended your verse have,
I will be with you again and please tell me my deed.

"

And no, that he pronounced it, he was changed into an old, wrinkled little woman, the at the monastery
bell went and coughing in the gate disappeared.

It was just at that time a young and exceedingly beautiful nun became doorkeeper, sister Clarissa,
who was a child of the nunnery, so to speak, for they had as a baby the monastery gate, peaceful
slumber, and mercifully found in the protection of Holy House included. Here she grew into her
nuns habit and was previously its Obligations complied with as a
matter of course and without doubt that the Mother Superior her the
heavy Post a gatekeeper had transferred.

Her name was Sister Clarissa, and was so blooming have been a nun as ever.

Now that the bell rang, she opened the woman coughing her sliding window and asked for his
Wanted.

"The matron Berthilde from the nearest convent sends this prayer book of the gatekeeper Clarissa,
"said the little woman," that they accept it as a gift. But to them from the obligations her
post as not to distract and testing their strength against the temptation
of curiosity she wishes that the pious sister Clarissa the cloth,
boot packed the gift tend not to move away from the book, until the
moonlight through her window falls.

He spoke, and before the gatekeeper could answer a word, the old woman had disappeared.

The evil was but just in the moment again with the mother of God, as this their nice mouth opened
to say Amen. He made a polite bow, like a gallant Ritter, and thanked her with a courtly scrape for
your kind permission. His work was completed. The Lady smiled mildly
and said Amen, and struck her three crosses.

Since ran away the bad guy with a loud scream. But she got up and walked quietly on their way.

Now
when the Abendglöcklein rung and the door of the monastery was closed, prepared the Sister Clarissa
their miserable camp undressed, and then effected the gift just as the moon shone bright and
dreamily through her window. The whole room sparkled in white silver light, so beautiful that
evening the moon shone from the starry sky. "I should have shown the gift of the Mother Superior,"
she whispered into the moonlight, "but they It would, I fear, against the wishes of the donor's
open in the sunlight! Yes, open! Yes, of course, "she reassured her anxious conscience," and I
will bring the same superior! " But while they have fumbled on the cloth and then, wonder of
wonders! was the prayer book to her and shone and sparkled against her, as if truly a piece of the
moon wrapped in the cloth been. There was no prayer book, but a mirror, which the crafty devils
in their Nuns had smuggled cell, and Clarissa had never seen a mirror, because such a tool
of vanity in a convent is unknown. So she held the square Brilliant piece of glass and silver for
the first fitting of a valuable book that tomorrow they must bring the superior, but when she
tried to open it, and fully Curiosity, bent over, she saw in it a human face, blooming beautifully
and with laughing Eyes, open mouth with a curious and quivering lips, as she never had a finer had
seen. The short blond hair shimmered and sparkled in the moonlight, as if it itself spun from
moonbeams would be the face and looked at her with childish pleasure, as it moved like her own
face, and laughed into the mirror to see whether it in the glass and laugh while they forgot
that they do something so reprehensible. But then she suddenly remembered about how sinful
it was, so on your own face to delight, and quickly covered the cloth over it. But it would
not let her alone. For the image they had seen had been too good to resist, as they would have
the magic can. They lifted the cloth back again by hinsprach aloud to himself that this Gift
indeed come from the famous and sacred Berthilde, their certainly not unfair would have sent! "Tomorrow
morning I'll give it the Mother Superior," she said solemnly. They laughed but again happy
with his lips and nodded to the lovely picture in the mirror friendly counter and moved toward
the head back and forth and arranged her hair with a little sigh that It is short Sun And she
made with her hands on the beautiful white neck a caressing Motion as they ride his fingers through
thick hair, as they imagine how must match a gorgeous long blond curls to tangle her face. Then
she opened her coarse shirt and saw the glory of her white breasts in the mirror and it seemed
as whether the moonbeams shone even brighter now, because it deals with the dazzling certificates
married her breast, and laughed, laughed aloud!

She had forgotten the whole world and their heavenly bridegroom! A vague, urgent desire was awakened
in her that they long to thirsty lips in the mirror sat and could
not look tired.

For if the evil one does anything that has to be him leave, he does it properly and no journeyman
work, so that because the religious minds of the lovely Clarissa was quite confused that evening
and the crude crucifix on the Wall took the wreath down, she picked from the garden every morning
to groom their To decorate, and the simple flowers placed in the hair, that they the black
rosary from his bed, took no thought even to pray, and put it around the white neck, the mirror
turning back and forth, just so to see any new charm of her beauty.

It was just a vicious and not an ordinary human level, and such a strong spell went out of him,
that when the morning dawned, the heart of the poor nun quite transformed
was and they were ready made and without feeling the gravity of their
sin, the gate had opened and that she simply ran away from the monastery.

The mirror but she was in the cloth wrapped and carried it like a treasure in her bosom. She
felt as if the mirror to draw her into the world, so funny and happy feet danced their way into
the Life beyond. And then she ran into the bright morning.

II

Now lived at the same time at his castle Black Castle, on a gorgeous
and menacing forested mountains with a fearful cowering village of
the same name, blind eye, a melancholy Count Henry, who despite his
marriageable youth of thirty years but for many, many black days of
his life completed and believed in a appalling drought of Mind thought
he was finished and ready cultivated.

He was a few years ago one of the world's most generous knight was
who amused themselves in tournaments and the color of his beloved
defended what never was out without a victory over the enemy and the
heart of the Chosen; but he is perhaps in these years of his exuberant
force a little too much from the solid had driven, he was soon fall
into a sad and heavy turbidity, in which he for parched and every
emotion was unable for a Bankerotteur of life and of love, and had
hurt himself and withdrew unkind to his castle, in the highest Tower
room, which he can turn out completely black.

There he sat as a useless and whimsical years from his sad, but his melancholy was not the type
who sighs and prays, but he swore and was constantly annoyed, so he was really a very unwelcome and
had become vile Lord, the torment his old servant sighing that it is a Jammer was. If it was
sorry if his illness, he swore, and if he does not pitied, he complained even more about neglect,
for he had always continued the Desire for martyrdom, in the summer that he sweat, and in winter
that he would be so cold, although the tower room during the hot months and quite cool in winter
as well heated was that he would have to be satisfied. Up here he sat, and was firmly convinced
that his withered tribe wither now so slow and never begin a new voyage.

Or was not quite so convinced, why were all, doctors and healers, which one could find, called
from all over the world to black castle and had successively included with the melancholy
counts, to taste its wonders to him. He had been fleeced, had swallowed all sorts of pills and powders,
toads and lizards eyes eaten by the hundreds, wore amulets on the chest in Lederbeutelchen and
canvas bags, that there was hardly room for them and about his neck of the hundreds of cords,
where they hung formed over time had a wide collar, and all this without his lost youth had
power and joy to the world adjusted. And again, if a cure without Success remained, he raged
that he was up here wither and rot admit that no Man take care of him and he must perish miserably
as a scum of humanity, so that his old servant only managed to achieve quite quickly a new doctor,
the Hoax Count back a little cheer and inspiring new hope in him. It was the melancholy Ritter,
thank God, at a quite good appetite and was with the time up there thick and spongy become what he
wanted to know, however conceived as dropsy.

At every meal he was necessary and pressing, and every sip of wine, he took with apparent reluctance
and grumbling, that he was pursuing, but the more orderly, so that his meals for a melancholic
Counts were quite enough really.

Just fourteen days now, before the lovely Clarissa with her sister mirrors from the monastery
departed, a large, famous medieval physician was on Black Castle, a pious and learned basic
Man who does not like the others tried electuaries and herbs are healing, but the the devil in
the sad Heinrich with very different and more effective means to the body moved. He had first
tried to exorcise the evil followers of incense, which he made in the tower room had a smoke,
his patient that he nearly choked. Then he had three days and nights, the most effective prayers
just standing there at the Heinrich and got around him, as it were surrounded with a wall of
sanctity in which it is the Devil certainly could not withstand. But this does not stain and wish he was
after a copious meal he had probably earned a day in deep contemplation brooding and sunk, sat
to meditate on the difficult case fairly decent. At last, after twenty-four hours, probably because
he again felt an ordinary hunger, it was suddenly gone up the great solution to the question as
a revelation, and he raised and his view apart clear that only one person on this earth the poor could
cure melancholy counts, and this is the holy father in Rome.

To which he had pilgrimage, but not alone, because it was too simple and therefore could not healing
have, but it had to find a pure virgin, the virgin in her chastity lead him to the steps of the Holy
See, as the Creed as it were, that he his former un-Christian and pagan life almost taken away,
and have now become worth it, again to be partakers of the divine grace, for it was just then
the time when you like Virgins to cure all kinds of suffering took advantage. Now the doctor
a much migrated and very erudite healer was, he did not fail to point out that even Another
knight Henry of his infirmity was cured by a virgin, and he, during his servant TOOK PLACE eating,
chewing and drinking in a philosophical Debate on the twisting and most remarkable circumstance
took in that Heinrich were both knights, which was perhaps a sign from God and immanent to a Unfortunately
Selects aura as people named instructions. Then it was with great attention from the castle
divorced.

Now it was purely for the departure of the famous doctor with the melancholy Heinrich unbearable.
The initial healing of the doctor had become the slow Count hard right and put in sweat, and
his throat was offended by the horrendous Frankincense, as he had at any price the window of
his room to be opened in the three-day Circling prayer he felt a kind of turning illness as she
is sometimes sheep, and his stomach was like a parched leather bag. For a week now, he roared through
the Tower like an angry boar, and very black castle, castle and village trembled with fear and
Concern that the poor gracious Lord only comfortable with the food good and the wine and beer
may well patronized. And in all directions were messengers sent to a secure Virgo was that
wanted to take the arduous martyrdom, with the gene fiends Ritter pilgrimage to Rome, and the
course of treatment, participate in a female should not felt great confidence.

III.

However, came there were already returned from all the messengers with empty hands, (because
every girl should summon his virginity, the demand indignantly to had rejected - a pilgrimage to
Rome with the surly Earl) on the gracious Clarissa their journey
to pilgrimage to Black Castle.

Her dress was dusty and nuns of thorns torn, so it was no longer recognizable as a holy robe,
her blond hair was become longer and her lips, if possible, more vivid, because you walking in
the fresh Air well received and had to give the pale color of a fresh red monastery. She had the first
day of their travels, such as spent in a frenzy, waiting only for the evening, at they bring out their
blissful mirror and right from the bowels of looking at them could enjoy. For they knew in
their glorious stupidity is not that the mirror also able in the day, was her longing to breast
feed and only came on the fifth day after this secret, when she had bathed her snow-white body
in a forest and stream it now the cloth dried, which covered the mirror otherwise.
 A half-dozen
or so, in various stages of drunkenness, through whiskey surreptitiously obtained, increased
the feeling of aversion.

In the dusk they stumbled over a figure lying squarely across the path, and Harley drew back
with a word of disgust. An old Indian, dilapidated and in the last stages of intoxication,
was stretched out on his face. A local resident named Walker, who had joined them, laughed.

"That," said he, "is a chief, a great man, or at least he was once. It's old Flying Cloud--poetical
name, though he don't look poetical now by a long shot. Here, get out of this; you're blocking
up the road!"

With true Western directness he administered a kick to the prostrate form, but the old chief,
buried in a sodden dream, only stirred and muttered; then the resident opened up a battery
of kicks, and presently the Indian rose to his feet and slunk off, muttering, in the darkness.

"They're no good at all," said Walker. "Only a lot of sots, whenever they get the chance."

But Harley was thinking of the contrast between what he had just seen and what he had imagined
might be the freedom and nobility of the wilderness.

It was a beautiful autumn night, and the candidate spoke in the open, in the village square,
with the mountains that circled about him as his background. Sylvia Morgan was not among the
listeners. Usually she enjoyed these speeches in the evening, with the crowds, the enthusiasm,
and the encircling darkness. But to-night she would not come, nor would she tell the reason
to Harley or any of his friends. She merely said that she wished to stay in her room at the hotel.

The audience was quiet and attentive, and Harley noticed here and there on the outskirts the
dark faces of the Indians. They interested him so much that he left the platform presently
to watch them. He was wondering if they had any conception at all of Jimmy Grayson's words
or of a Presidential campaign. Nor did he gain any knowledge by his examination. They listened
gravely, and their faces were without expression.

The nearest of them all to the stand Harley recognized as the old chief, Flying Cloud, whom
Walker had kicked off the sidewalk. He seemed to have recovered physical command of himself,
and stood erect. There was a red feather in his felt hat, and a shawl in brilliant stripes
was drawn across his shoulders.

The candidate spoke in a specially happy vein that night, and the background of the mountains
added impressiveness to his words. To Harley, again the analyst, and seeking to put himself
in the Indian's place, there was a rhythm and power in what Jimmy Grayson said, although he,
as an Indian, might not understand a word. He could interpret it as a chant of battle or victory,
and such, he had no doubt, was the view of Flying Cloud.

The chief, so Harley judged, was still half under the influence of drink, but he was paying
close attention to the speaker, and the correspondent at last saw in his eyes what he took
to be the stir of some emotion. It was a light, as of memories of his own triumphs, and the
chief's figure began to sway gently to the music of Jimmy Grayson's voice. They had built a
bonfire near the speaker's stand, and by its flare Harley clearly saw old Flying Cloud smile.

Hobart came up at that moment, and, Harley pointed out to him the transformation in the old
chief's appearance. Hobart's opinion agreed with Harley's.

"It's a battle-song that Flying Cloud is hearing," he said. "It's Jimmy Grayson that's stirring
him up, though maybe the old fellow doesn't understand it that way."

The speeches ended after a while, and the people began to leave. Presently only a few were
left in the square, and among them was Harley, who felt no touch of sleepiness. He looked at
the quiet town, then up at the ridges and peaks, crested with snow and silhouetted against
the moonlit sky, and thought again of that little girl, alone with her dead and in the night
among the vast mountains.

The next moment he believed that it was a telepathic feeling, because at his elbow was Sylvia
Morgan herself, a red-striped shawl over her head to protect her from the cold, and "King"
Plummer, who had evidently brought her from the hotel, not far away. I
am glad that you are well. "

"I say yes! In anger," apologized Wirsich.

The dispute was settled, "remarked Joseph. Both drank each a glass, on which "position" a fourth
followed.

They would have so continued, if not now be considered the door, and Mr. Tobler is himself stepped
into the restaurant. He flew both drinkers and employees igniting a look that said, the men enough.

Joseph
was at the entrance of the Lord immediately removed his hat, which he previously tomboy kept
on the head was. The store the courtesy and Toblersche glance, it does not store less. He was
on the way soon, as the conversation ceased with Wirsich already
said that he would like to pay and was moving towards the exit.

A sign of the engineer led him However, to get in close to it.

He asked:

"What is this Ungut here, Wirsich?"

Joseph replied, "Oh, he has found a job. Click to close next door, at Bachmann & Co. Since today.
He is very happy about it. "

"Really? And he drinks probably still like to know what? Which will undoubtedly be a long time
in the new position Remain the! It is good. Were you at the post office? "

"No, I'm off. You will excuse. My predecessor has stopped me. I will go straight, and if you want
me to give you hieherbringe the letters "- -

                   Tobler said no, and the assistant left the room.

was also Wirsich
now got up, he paid, marched forward uncertainly, not knowing whether
he should greet his former boss or not, it did, and even deep and
humble, and joined the abundance of still at the table, on which occasion
he almost overturned would be.

His greeting was returned with no respect for a mine train. Tobler "wanted nothing more to do
with the people. " At the door, stumbled for the second time Wirsich Was this a bad omen?

* * * * *

Mrs. Tobler came with the night train went home. Mr Tobler, Pauline and Joseph they expected at
the station. The train came puffing and rattling.

All kinds of people crowded be approached in the vicinity of the long, black, grand-standing
there monsters. The woman came from Joseph and Pauline sprang to take baskets and parcels
received. Mother Tobler the son's wife had given different things that you could know about
in advance, so one was published three of the station. Two baskets were some apples, some nuts.
The packages contain items for the woman herself and for the children.

On the face of the Ascended could be read that the whole thing neither good nor very well was
up really bad. It expressed weariness and serenity. It seemed as
if One half of the face would have smiled a little.

On the whole they seemed to her husband, who curious why they asked to have given a sufficient
and satisfactory information, Tobler did not seem as bad to feel like it, quickly now for a
while in the "Sail" to go. His wife said she noticed him well wherever he wanted to go by what
some Words as well as the related permission was granted.

Which he called the fully compliant yet, he was in at least one hour in the evening star and
disappeared into his favorite pub.
The rest went home. The assistants, it was a pleasant duty, the baskets,
so heavy they had to wear. This was yet again something "physical".
He walked behind the two women behind the maid and the woman, easy,
therefore, completely thoughtless. Yes, that came out of the baskets.
"I was born to be errand boys," he thought.

On reaching home, it
issued a swarm of questions from the child's curiosity sounding. And
a siege of the packets and fruit baskets. What could be said grandmother
wanted The three children know. Only the fourth not. Silvi was sleepy
and indifferent.
He was approaching the great moment of triumph. He told how the warriors lay among the bushes,
watching the foolish train come on, how they looked at each other and rejoiced in advance over
an easy victory. Some would have fired too soon, but Flying Cloud would not let them. His was
the cunning mind, as well as the bold heart, and he omitted nothing. The trap was perfect.
The fools never suspected. They stopped to make a camp, and still they did not know that a
ring of death was about them. They built their fires, and again the children laughed and played
by the coals. It was the last time.

The old chief was now wholly the wilderness slayer, the Indian of an earlier time. His glittering
eyes at times swept the circle of white faces about him, but he did not see them, only that
old massacre.

The narrative went on. Flying Cloud told each of his warriors to select a victim, and fire
true when he gave the word. He chose for himself a large man who stood by one of the wagons,
a man who had with him a woman and a little boy and a little girl, and the little girl had
long curls.

A groan burst from Plummer, and Harley saw his great figure gather as if for a spring. But
Harley, quick as lightning, seized the man in a powerful grasp, and cried in his ear: "Not
now, Mr. Plummer, not now, for God's sake! Wait until the end!"

Harley felt the "King" quiver in his hands, and then cease to struggle. Sylvia stood by, still
as white as death and absolutely motionless. The others, held by the old chief's song, did
not see nor hear.

Flying Cloud's eyes were glittering with cruel triumph as he continued his chant. The rifles
were raised, the white fools yet suspected nothing, but laughed and jested with each other
as if there would be a to-morrow.

Then he gave the word, and all the rifles were fired at once. The cañon was filled with smoke
and the whistling of bullets. Most of the men in the train were killed at once, and then the
warriors sprang among those who were left. Flying Cloud had shot the tall man by the wagon,
and then he sought the woman and the two children. He slew the woman and the little boy, and
he scalped them both. Then he sprang at the girl, but the child of the Evil Spirit slipped
among the bushes, and he could not find her.

The old chief stopped a moment, and once more his glittering eyes swept the circle of white
faces, but saw them not. Then that fierce cry burst again from Plummer. Suddenly he threw off
Harley as if he had been a child, and sprang through the ring of white faces into the circle
of the firelight. The tall, pale girl, still not saying a word, stood by, like an avenging goddess.

"Murderer!" cried the "King." "It is not too late to punish you!"

He seized the old chief by the throat, but the white men threw themselves upon him and tore
him off.

Flying Cloud reeled back, gazed a moment at Plummer, and then drew a knife.

"It was when there was war between us, and I will not swing at the end of the white man's rope,"
he said.

So speaking, he plunged the blade into his own heart and fell dead, almost at the feet of the
woman whose kin he had slain.

"Whatever the red scoundrel was," said Hobart, later, "I shall always use the old text for
him, and say that nothing in this life became him like the leaving of it."

But there were no such feelings in the heart of Sylvia Morgan. When "King" Plummer sprang upon
Flying Cloud, Harley turned involuntarily to Sylvia, and he saw the pallor replaced by a sudden
flush; then, when the chief slew himself with his own knife, the flush passed, and whiter than
ever she sank down gently. But Harley caught her in his arms before she fell, and in a moment
or two she revived. And now want to
you chase me from you, rather than to kiss my feet and ask for my mercy. The hem my dress should
take you and whine that I will aid in your unmanly and contemptible selfishness, you disgusting!
"

The knight had sat up in bed and watched, stunned by the audacity the Virgin Mary, since he
had only seen Clarissa submissive and without will. He gasped for breath, so furious was he
when he heard her speak so boldly. But then he laughed angry and wanted to get out of bed, the Kuehne
to chastise. But which had opened their tissues, therein lay the pieces, and by the sheets that
covered the knight lifted and emptied to the hundreds of pieces on his bed, that they scattered like
sharp thorns around its body were and he was like a thorn hedge, that it had to hurt any movement,
so that He was a real martyr now. He had, however, love much, except that he is about would
have stung and did not move, but looked confused and helpless on the proud Maid, which he had tamed.

Much
as they would have laughed then, as the bewildered melancholy Henry
in his fear between the spines was a truly deplorable impression,
but she controlled herself and remained grave and stern, and said
to the knight in their majestic and commanding Way, and he was forced
to listen to her because she was bending over his bed and quite rudely
roused him at once, if he escape with her exhortations to sleep wanted.

It was for this even domineering and violent husband, who by years had tormented his surroundings
and completely forgot that the other perhaps a will would have to lie the most instructive sentence,
now defeated in a bed of thorns of a maid, move without being allowed, and its unctuous rich
words that now faces all his life he rolls up to have to listen. Despite the more slowly out
of his eyes of wonder, then a fearful wonder and genuine fear, as he forced the situation very unpleasant
and the preacher has been nice not granted him a moment of inattention, but it equally rattled
when it seemed careless.

Thus, this speech the most poignant and longest sermon ever held, and as The morning dawned,
was the knight has become so entrenched in his diaper soft and hardened Mind that he appeared for
the first time genuine tears in his eyes and his miserable and was very miserable. Since the Virgin
was the first in her speech arrived at the moment because Clarissa had entered into the life of
the sad Heinrich.

And they filled the morning hours with the enumeration of all crimes that he had done to her
on the pilgrimage, the Ritter softly nodded his head and sighed, as he now has even saw how in
love he was in this beautiful creature that had wanted to accompany him to Rome. He cried out
right bottom of my heart, as it now every harsh word and brusque movement by which he good Clarissa
had injured himself hurt and tortured and he cherished only one wish, all to make good what he had
done wrong.

So the preaching Virgin came to the moment when the evil Henry Clarissa to be had taken to bed
but then he forgot all of spines and thorns that surrounded him and sat up in bed, and prayed
fervently for forgiveness, and that she should for God's sake tell him not even this outrage again,
he loved her so, as he never even loved in life, with a so called
worship and respectful love, that he himself of such a pure and holy
feeling never thought capable.

He sobbed and buried his face in his hands, he was ashamed, and between real tears, he kept saying:
"If only I knew how I obtain your pardon! I love, I love you so hot and intimately! "

This moment, however, used the holy Virgin, to disappear from the room, and more so than they
already heard at the door steps of the true Clarissa, because also in the same moment when the
Virgin had made her place in the warehouse of the healed occurred. So then heard the surprised
and happy Clarissa's pure and true love affirmations with jubilant hearts to, in the most confusion
of mind, which her happiness did not know to be taken. She laid her hand gently on the head
of the knight who seized them and with ardent and fervent kisses
covered and moistened with his tears.

"I'll have your Mirror broken, "he said as his lips were soft and gentle, so that the words
from his mouth lovingly and gently, trembling, "but what you need now also a mirror, and you
shall only look up constantly in my eyes you will behold it up, you Love and sweet one, and will
still be enriched by my pure and true love! "

Since they already looked into his laughing eyes, she beheld in it, and beheld not yet; the eyes
were so full of love.

And suddenly it was the two, as if a wonderful aroma fill the room, and since the Ritter moved
his bed sheet, so the chips were gone and he was in the middle on a thornless roses bearing
red and white fragrant roses, so that never a bride and groom a more
beautiful and lovely bride bed has had.

They embraced and kissed each other long and grateful and happy with his lips and on the same
Day they set out to - after they are in the chapel of the Madonna for gracious had united forever,
- home to immigrate to Black Castle.

"Because," he whispered in her ear to make a pilgrimage "to Rome which she was glowing red and
......« hid her face in his chest.

"My dear, sweet, single woman," he shouted, and, as a lark in front of them tirillierend swung
in the air, because it seemed as if his soul would have wings, and
suddenly sang He winged the singer his greeting to:

»Tandarada, Tandarada!

What a miracle happened to me yet! "

And he continued to sing this song all his life!

    
    

* * * * *

       

You dear, good people, to them I up to this point is true and to please them Legend has reported
to me now do not be angry: I do not end it. I do not know how the - God help us! - How the evil
been concerned with the Mother of God has! And if he is very proud of his winning bet! For you
will surely, you good and love people who do not demand that I report to you only to one conclusion
about this legend to be able to have with him to talk! God have mercy on my soul!

But one thing is true! In the monastery, from the Countess of Schwarzburg Clarissa as a nun
escaped, and far, far away, in the high Alpine Chapel, where their poor broken pieces Our Lady
inaugurated hang two pictures of an artist's hand painted and each famous to her beauty and magic
power for unfortunate people love: the Madonna, in the hand holds a mirror and smile sweetly
and viewed in the glass ....

       

* * * * *

By Hugo Salus = = published so far:

= Stories of the poet .= Third edition. Egon Fleischel & Co., Berlin.

= Poems .= Second edition. Albert Langen, Munich.

= New Poems .= Albert Langen, Munich.

       = .= Dance poems. Second edition.

Albert Langen, Munich.

= Before Spring .= fifth to the seventh millennium.

Paper Jewelry by Heinrich Vogeler-Worpswede.

Eugene Diederichs, Leipzig.

= Susanna and the Elders .= book decorations by Wilhelm Scholz. Albert Langen, Munich.

Christa .= = A Gospel of Beauty. Paper Jewelry by Emil Orlik. Second edition. Wiener Verlag.

= .= Harvest poems. Second edition. Albert Langen, Munich.

= New Garben .= poems. Albert Langen, Munich.

* * * * *

Published by Egon Fleischel & Co. / Berlin W 35

Stories of the poet

of

Hugo
Salus

Price M. geh 2 -, born M. 3 -

= = From the meetings

= Dresdner
Anzeiger: = about the term novel in the classic sense, in the spirit
of Maupassant we must certainly not approach this very delicate moods.

The Improvised, sometimes sketchy of the frame in which we spun an impression that subjectively,
lyrical, opposes, is the tangible, even plastic, which will give the epic poet, a far cry different. But
that just makes the whole free, Urpersönliche of the author, yes will never deny the poet, and
the epic trials in the traditional sense does not . Succeed Through the lyrical mood, he plays
very consistently in the best record know through their own sound that absolutely nothing in literary
willed, or even conventional has, he hits us in thrall. It is not the Salus external events, but
on the inner experience of.

Quite wonderful the mind is a real poet sprung stories: "Where do the children come from?"

Hamburg news =: = A better title would have been the poet of his short stories collection does
not can give, for each of his stories speak so unmistakably the poet, the faint-hearted Emotions,
where everything he sees, much less in real form as the breath of poetry transfigured appears
that it is believed not to read verse and prose often.

If you also in some Things differently - and therefore perhaps more clearly sober - condemned
as Hugo Salus, always pays and estimated the subtle poet, whose work in soothing purity to arise
before us, whose language the material master and him elated.

    
    
    = Home garden, Graz: = Strange little stories
    of a true poet in the fine rhythmic Language, has become used to
the Salus already in his poetry.

    From inconspicuous, the profane Look
    most worthless things and events in their strange dreams of his muse
Adventurous and made into small stories, which one but not "interesting
stories" may be called in the usual sense, but that will be fine readers
a welcome pleasure in its deep symbolism and her humble sense of the
wonders of life.

= The Literary Echo: = The poet, presents us this time of short stories, once in his first Versbuche
a very useful term and beautiful sonnet written, which is now denied. At that time, he says:

My house is too small poet threshold The door to low. The drapery folds Itself must hold together
the lyrics closely Will they see me, the sun bright.

But for my ideal, for the amendment, The door is already too narrow.
- - -

Now it has nevertheless been included.

If you will, through a backdoor, because under the schematic concept of the epic can not the
delicate, slightly fragrant stories To insert because they are images and dreams, fables and tempting
spinnwebfeine chats - Amendments to the poet and short stories in general. The epic Kothurn
missing, Salus seated not at the reading table, but closer, much closer. A homely feeling,
a sweet and confidential nature is the personal style - as it's like sitting amicably set
settlement with chairs around a table, and one, any one, but a wise and Feiner would begin, at
once a story to tell into the middle of a chat or in silence.

Those beautiful ease that the easy and yet so skillfully woven fabric of Salus Show us love
and esteem, makes gives these stories a unliterary, spicy freshness, a vitality and mobility,
the intentional, so the fiction in every Creation is palpable, as oppressed .... Not a new one
is obtained with the Beech dear, but the lyrical fabulist, the clever, tasteful and subtle Poet
of life, Hugo Salus, of even the smallest facet of the image of the great powers to reflect white.

=
Time: = have in the new book by Hugo Salus me the title novella, and "The Register" delighted.
The first amendment should dramatically moving story of a betrayed woman's soul be. Salus had every
intention of it on the "honorable country road of the language once between cornfields and potato
fields then leads to try. " But he is Poet, and - "you're not with impunity twenty years of his life,
poet, lyricist only!" He wanders from the honorable road from always rushing in "flower gardens
and solemnly Haine, "distract him from the moods, singing the words seduces him. A "real, epic
Novella, is a neat story's not. But is this confession Sun much subtlety and so amiable irony in
this playful presentation so alive and flexible spirit, that I the "stories of the poet,"
a showpiece of prose think. About the title, however, and especially about the definite article
it would argue. The Storm, Keller and Meyer were also well known poet, and on the "honorable
country road" the language they have yet trotted with much pleasure and success. They may well have
become sometimes difficult to tighten the reins a little tighter, but they understood it.
And finally, it goes well - Hugo Salus itself as "The Glove," The cup of Mensans "and" prove
the toast. " Only he knows that he knows all the world as the singer, by whose songs the longing
proceeds with princess-like grandeur, and from whose verses Cupids giggle. Therefore I believe that
he wrote down the track from a certain coquetry has, if it is not free from melancholy. comes
as an artistic confession me the first amendment in any case extremely interesting before. And
now I would like to quickly all the pretty pieces that bring something for everyone, of all
the moving love stories fantastic and thoughtful observations, high-spirited
North blissful images and Italy trips to the charming little novella
The Register hurry.

" (Follows content.) - There is only a graceful idea, this little story. But with the art of
a true - says poet. The silly, sentimental and sweet a dialogue between the two girls I had to
the girls figures think that Klimt painted on his Schubert image.

= The Future = The people that have to do when other tight fight, now heartily about whether these
"stories of the poet" really "stories" are not. If man's now hold still possible? So we depend
so still the ponytail and back Schablonisieren Categorize and is still the soul of Auntie criticism?
Salus has told clearly that he is "a poet has written novels," and this famous title is probably
at best create a new direction for prose does, but from the outset any appraisal and any comparison.
Fortunately, it is pretty much in pigtailed and Unbezopften agreed that this is true to art,
whether they now own the patent amendment or not. Strangely this is his first-person stories that
seem so personal that they seem to cut out as from a large-scale diary, from their development
the symbol. Poet souls are clairvoyant and Salus are the strange relationship between things
and their effects, between the substance and spirit of a fairy-rich domain in which his vivid
imagination - almost one might say, "with pleasure" - is taken. This is it is also what makes
these poems in prose her deep and special after-effect: Salus tells stories in a country that
is not on the surface of the sensations you have to willing be him into the symbolic and often
follow up to the mystical. This does not however from all parts of his book, for some there is sharp
clarity and narrative sure flows along like a well-dammed stream. In other pieces, but does
the symbolism in their right to the imagination of the reader (if he has one) is then a pleasant
room commanded, and he can speak (if he's can) a bit mitdichten.

In this intensive Mitbeschäftigung the reader is then the constant artistic aftermath.

A swallow that flies into the jaws of a wooden death, as it is level, as a toy a clock tower,
the hour strike, the jaws open, and now the inside of the death of prisoner remains until the
next hour they freed: a splendid metaphor for the life irrgewordene, desperate soul boy, the one hour the
terrors of destruction award is given to them, with newfound courage, again flies towards the
light and freedom. In this story of the swallow (and not in this alone) Salus is our love Meister
Gottfried Keller strange area. More significant for the narrator Salus but "the fine and strange
story" Hands in which we completely new sensation areas . Open up A dying man is called in the
night, the doctor and the priest, and now are both at his camp, and everyone does his own.
As the moon breaks with ghostly Shine through the window and anoint be able to talk the hands
of the priest, the research- Hands of the doctor and the quiet passing of hands of the dying
man in the pale moon light is a deeply moving language. Three other foreign and distant worlds,
three vast empires from the universe of the human soul in touch these hands. Such conjuring large
Reverb trails of daily happenings of Salus is very characteristic. The profound effects This transfigured
by the piety of a true poet's stories reveal the course more like a naive susceptible mind as a critical
head.

= Leipziger Tageblatt: = Let him of large and small child's question: "Where do the children
here,"? answer or the young "swallow" tell that disappears into the throat of the tower clock
and it is a revelation for him, or in "The cup of Mensans" a Märlein from the Landsknecht dense
time, reveal in "Toast" deepest sorrow woman, "to" hands an apt Give consideration to the people dying
and "The Symbol of Life," a picture of entrancing Beauty and depth, always outweighs the Lyric,
the narrator always immersed his characters and events in the shine and shimmer of poetry.
But the reader must have the be satisfied, for he is in this way from the book a very outgoing
and pleasant atmosphere extraordinary, and as great a benefit granted to the artistically crafted,
elegant Language. And thirdly, are the light and warmth of the representation into account: the jubilant
Cheerfulness in "resort", the deep intimacy come in the aforementioned novels "Where the children
? Ago, "and" The symbol of life, which are susceptible minds into the depths of the soul packed
and can be difficult to break away from the book.

= North and South = (Breslau): (Inhalt.) We should throw after such high expectations of the other
stories and creations of the Prague poet, look forward to his personality in its true Gentility,
kindness and sympathetic inner purity, double positive Release is in a time when even gifted women
- in which we would ask men what is seemly - who sing songs desert
girl do not be shy.

= = Westermann Monatshefte (Berlin): Sometimes a single book title says, the characteristic a literary
or flavor over long investigations and treatises. As with magic, he illuminates an entire area
for the critical eye so far in the dark sponge that does not seem to have the right shape or color
of right. That was the case when the Prague writer Hugo Salus recently a collection of short
stories under the title: appear stories of the poet was. - All at once you knew what one of the most
crucial, if the feature is a young Austrian novella: the strong lyrical impact, of its own tissues.
Arthur Schnitzler, JJ David, Hugo Salus, Felix Salten, Karl Springs, Emil Ertl - deny it all
even when they, like David in his "transition, modern naturalistic materials take the strong lyrical
vein is not, by their artistic Organism until the blood supplies. Almost everywhere appeared Salus
his small and large actions in gloss and shimmer, are resolved in prose rhythms and turning
the world's people out with tender arms of the ordinary. Materials and locations of Salusschen stories
are as different as possible: a tender, profound stories, the origin of the children Children
with scientific truth and love but his heart beat is indicated, next to a geschehnisfrohen,
in a great, exuberant love of life reveling mercenary history; a landscape study from the beach of Westerland
is standing next to a small amendment, in whole Glowing with joy is the longing for Italy, next
to a piece of autobiography, that an image of the modern Prague is characterized, at the same
time but deep in the events of a human soul down lights. But nowhere is it actually that's what,
almost everywhere As it is the artistic, which attracts and captivates the reader, like the
poet himself evidently far more of the words and sounds, the colors and shapes of the images and symbols
factual as of the act and the flow of external events has to take leave. Friends novelistic
events are the "tales of the poet therefore" less to be recommended as artistic Gourmets and lovers
of fine arts Klein.

Dr. Friedrich Düsel.

       

* * * * *

Buchdruckerei Roitzsch, G. mb H., Roitzsch. The list of previously published by the author Books
were moved to the advertising to the end of book publishing.

p 059: Chapter number added: I, p 059 by their poor Verhälnisse -> conditions p 084 adds quotes:
... it is a Palma "p 132: The door in the back of the Room -> room p 140: accolade of love
should empfahen -> receive p 151: middle in the wide strip moonlight
-> p to 186: very erudition healer -> learned p 193: day bed piled->
shaken p 193: the Count was ready for the leave -> let p 216: by the
sheets that covered the Knights -> the sheet p 228: from the pictures
-> the p 228: from the question of action and the river -> the river] I cannot trample upon a boy, even metaphorically, in the presence of
five thousand people. What will they think of me?"

"They'll understand. They'll know why it's done, and they'll like you for it. It's the only
way, Mr. Grayson. Either you do it or my boy's life is ruined."

Jimmy Grayson walked up and down the room, and his face was troubled. He looked again and again
at Harley, but the correspondent made no suggestion; he had none to make. At last he stopped.

"I think I can save your son, and promise to make the trial, but I will not say a word just
yet. Now don't ask me any more about it, and never mind the thanks. I understand; maybe I shall
have a grown son myself, some day, to be turned from the wrong path. Good-night. I'll see you
again at Pueblo. Harley, I wish you would stay awhile longer. I want to have further talk with
you."

The candidate and Harley were in deep converse for some time, and, when they finished, much
of the trouble had disappeared from Jimmy Grayson's eyes. "I think it can be done," he said.

"So do I," repeated Harley, with confidence.

The next day, which was occupied with the run down to Pueblo and occasional stops for speeches
at way-stations, was uneventful save for the growing obsession of Charlie Moore. He was overflowing
with pride and importance. That night, in the presence of five thousand people, he was going
to reply to the great Jimmy Grayson, and show to them and to him his errors. Mr. Grayson was
sound in most things, but there were several in which he should be set right, and he, Charlie
Moore, was the man to do it for him.

The fledgling proudly produced several printed programmes with his name next to that of the
candidate, and talked to the correspondents of the main points that he would make, until they
fled into the next car. But he followed them there and asked them if they would not like to
take in advance a synopsis of his speech, in order that they might be sure to telegraph it
to their offices in time. All evaded the issue except Harley, who gravely jotted down the synopsis,
and, with equal gravity, returned his thanks for Mr. Moore's consideration.

"I knew you wouldn't want to miss it," said the youth, "I come on late, you know, and, besides,
I remembered that the difference in time between here and New York is against us."

Mr. Moore, the father, was on the train throughout the day, but he did not speak to his son.
He spent his time in the car in which Jimmy Grayson sat, always silent, but always looking,
with appeal and pathos, at the great leader. His eyes said plainly: "Mr. Grayson, you will
not fail me, will you? You will save my son? You will beat him, and tread on him until he hasn't
left a single thought of being a famous orator and public leader? Then he will return to the
work for which God made him."

Harley would look at the old man awhile, and then return to the next car, where the youth was
chattering away to those who could not escape him.

The speech in Pueblo was to be of the utmost importance, not alone to those whose own ears
would hear it, but to the whole Union, because the candidate would make a plain declaration
upon a number of vexed questions that had been raised within the last week or two. This had
been announced in all the press on the authority of Jimmy Grayson himself, and the speech in
full, not a word missing, would have to be telegraphed to all the great newspapers both East
and West.

In such important campaigns as that of a Presidential nominee, the two great telegraph companies
always send operators with the correspondents, in order that they may despatch long messages
from small way-stations, where the local men are not used to such heavy work. Now Harley and
his associates had with them two veterans, Barr and Wymond, from Chicago, who never failed
them. They were relieved, too, on reaching Pueblo, to find that the committee in charge had
been most considerate. Some forethoughtful man, whom the correspondents blessed, had remembered
the three hours' difference in time between Pueblo and New York, and against New York, and
he had run two wires directly into the hall and into a private box on the left, where Barr
and Wymond could work the instruments, so far from the stage that the clicking would not disturb
Jimmy Grayson or anybody else, but would save much time for the correspondents.

The audience gathered early, and it was a splendid Western crowd, big-boned and tanned by the
Western winds.

"They have cranks out here, but it's a land of strong men, don't you forget that," said Harley
to Churchill, and Churchill did not attempt a sarcastic reply.

They were both sitting at the edge of the stage, and in front of them, nearer the footlights,
was young Moore, proud and eager, his fingers moving nervously. His father, too, had found
a seat on the stage, but he was in the background, next to the scenery and behind the others;
he was not visible from the floor of the house. There he sat, staring gloomily at his son,
and now and then, with a sort of despairing hope, glancing at Jimmy Grayson.

There were some short preliminary speeches and introductions, and then came the turn of the
candidate. The usual flutter of expectation ran over the audience, followed by the usual deep
hush, but just at that moment there was an interruption. A boy in the uniform of a telegraph
company hurried upon the stage.

"You must come at once, sir," he said to Harley. "Mr. Wymond hasn't turned up. We don't know
what's become of him. And Mr. Barr has took sick, sudden and bad. The Pueblo manager says he'll
get somebody here as quick as he can, but he can't do it under half an hour, anyway!"

The other correspondents stared at each other in dismay, and then at the hired stenographer
who was to take down the speech in full. But Harley, always thoughtful and resourceful, responded
to the emergency. She is so beautiful, so pure!
" dreamed it to himself. But again there was the picture of his sister before his eyes, it
is also so beautiful, so pure had dreamed when he was on the ship's home sweet thoughts indulged, and a
fresh and far deeper pain filled his heart. Was his sister to win so easily? Did they advertise
the mortal enemy of his Ermete gave so willingly? Does not it maybe a fault?

His excited fancy showed him physically clear Ermete and his sister, which could he can not stand,
he jumped up from the camp, he quickly made ready and summoned his servants. Led him into the next
room, where the morning snack awaited him. And then hurried Riccardo down the garden, only by
the wish fulfilled, to escape, and the thought of his loneliness.

IX.

As Riccardo stepped into the glittering, green garden, under the old trees, the company Fair was
assembled, since its gloom turned into the happiest equal happiness. He laughed with the others,
the late riser greeted with joyful acclamation, the beds in the house
Spada's be better than vessel beds.

This will prove to be to Emilio, he cheerfully admitted, he also still missing in society.

"You are mistaken, since you," said Emilio's father, "who is now even
crawled out of bed early in the morning and sends his apologies.

He and Mary are with the Palma, which are returned home, ridden about an hour ago, to give
them an escort. "

"Oh, I'm sorry," stammered Riccardo, and his words were an excuse
for , Considered that he had not been adopted by the count's family.

It was not a cloud was at the blue sky, but his face suddenly became very dark and one of the nobles,
of which eight had said, mockingly:

"So after riding them, so if the zureitet sharp, you can certainly see the veil of the beautiful
Francesca flutter in the wind to see before they disappear into the
dense shadow of Selva nera!

"

"Yes," said the father because Spada, "also asks Emilio, you'd like,
if you will, ride to meet them, the way is not to fail and our children
will you in the Mid-way deal.

"

"That I will do it very much," Riccardo said softly. "I want to be saddled only my horse."

The "begrudge today's deserved rest," said the kindly host authentic, "my horse is saddled at
your service. "

He whistled to the grooms, who approaches soon led a beautiful, fiery
animal.

The mounted Riccardo after he had pointed the way, and galloped away.

"We Salute the beautiful Countess Francesca cried the Nobile him even after gay;! And he said
Then, laughing with the other guests: "The course has again done
the Countess, otherwise would be the dormouse - for all their love
to Emilio - now probably not so easy on the horse increased.

But he is riding better than I would have expected a naval officer! "

Riccardo also felt that he was now easier than ever was in the saddle,
so hard his heart by the release of the friendly father Emilio was
taken.

> I gather it must, 'he said to himself,' I must see her again!
<

The path led up behind the castle through the woods, but left even
at the height of the Wald, so that the hope of Riccardo's, he would,
after a sharp ride on the height arrived to see the cars of Palma
and its companion, not fulfilled.

> I'm certainly not a wrong way,
'he thought, "and yet has the mocking Nobile said that I will in the
distance see the veil Francesca blow.

Maybe opens later, the view, now I may very well be just one hour ride. <

He urged his horse to a quick trot, although it really the steep path like a Road had taken.

Since, as Riccardo just out of the trees on a sunny glade came and,
from the bright light blinded, the eyes were closed, strive toward
the shade of the forest opposite, he suddenly heard his name called,
he looked around and been brought by the joyous Schreck, who tore
his body backwards, the horse to a halt.

On the lawn, however, on a moss-covered stones, she was sitting, after which he longed, and held
the reins of her horse loose in his hands. She had a rash the wrong hat light brown hair, she
saw in her riding-habit from now leaner and laughed brightly in the day into it, probably because
of the impetuous rider who suddenly brought his horse to a stop, a might offer quite strange
sight, and because his face and his attitude, he from his horse increased,
so clearly the expression of surprise, even offered the most avid
horror that they only laughed louder.

"Countess," he said, "You're retarded" - to expect me to say he wanted
to, but he finished the sentence, because Mary was come to meet him,
and the surprise was now hinübergehuscht on her bright face.

"Countess you say? Do you take me for Francesca? "

"You are Yes, you not the Countess Palma?" It was unsafe and yet with all the safety an already
answered question from the lips of Riccardo. "So your brother me yesterday fooled when he saw
me ... "

"My girlfriend Francesca and me showing off together?" Maria completed the sentence. "And you
have taken me for my girlfriend? But you looked so dismayed face, you seem so unhappy about
the mistake that I probably should ask for forgiveness, that you are so disappointed , have you
Poor! I'm really only Mary, the sister of Emilio's, you can give
me the forgiven?

I have directed our guests to come here and my brother is still a piece of ridden with them
further, perhaps to Selva nera, because the day so wonderful and
the ride is as pleasant.

I want to ride home again, for you have been a long wait on you, and now I have you, no need
to prepare my fault, such a bitter disappointment! "

She laughed out loud again in the shimmering air and knocked the neck of her horse, which his Lady
with bright eyes at her.

Riccardo stood before her, a little voice in him was always singing the same song is now all
good, now I must tell you, you do to dear, sweet girl, no harm!

But another voice mocked him, Thou bold knight, do you think about your revenge? And have
eyes and fell in love And ears are standing here in front of a lovable creature who is chosen
your tenderness has, however, have you lied to them you proud as your objective revenge.

And his shame and the sense of grave injustice, which he had done to this pure, was so great
that he - as would the gaiety before him know all his fault - before
her fell into the grass, to kiss the hem of her dress, and a choked
voice said to her:

"Can you forgive me, Mary, you can forgive me
that everything in life, ever?"

He pleaded at her full of deep intimacy, he knew now quite determined that his confusion of the
two girls only to his delight in this bright creature had sprung, and that he had made out of
admiration for her and the feelings of his burgeoning love of the error.

Mary had stooped down to him, the smile was still on her lips, but now they saw unfortunate
in his eyes and did not understand them, and so she said:

"I do not know you, Signor Riccardo not know, and if your game in clear how this Genuflection
is a well, always looks so unhappy as now. And do not even know what I will forgive you if
you have the word serious!

You gave us both friends Yesterday, as you came near being a stranger in a large company, confused,
but neither I, Francesca still have reason to feel offended when someone confuses us. Is on,
sir, and tell me if it would hurt you if you hold someone for my brother would? "

She said these words so natural and yet so mild that Riccardo was
just confused.

He approaches, brought no answer, he only stammered: "You can not even know how sincere I regret everything
I've done or would do! "

And suddenly he embraced her knees and cried stormy up at her: "You do not know so, how discarded,
how miserable I am and how unhappy!

And I can not tell you what makes me so unhappy! The confusion has thus not creating anything,
really, However, you must have pity on me, because I'm unhappy, but I deserve your forgiveness
not, although they alone could save me! "

His voice was so sincere and his eyes looked so sad and hopeless to the frightened Maria up, that
they are not defended him, so fearful they also the strange behavior of the front of her Knee
ends pursued. He seemed to yesterday evening so changed that she wondered whether he is truly
the world's competent officer and friend of her brother.

She said, however, with soft words to him:

"How could I forgive you something I do not know and what did not insult me? Stand up, sir,
we will now ride home, it is perhaps soothes your Excitement, and want to wait there for Emilio,
the say you can, what you so moved! Is it You all right? "

As he rose from the floor, confused and hopeless, and thanked her
with silent attention, and They went some distance between the horses,
which they referred to the reins, in the forest into it.

But then he stopped, he struggled with whether he should open his heart to Mary. And he began
to tell:

"I have a sister at home, they may be in your age, and she lives with our mother alone over the
mountains in Genoa. And these two women were my dream at night the sea, and my happiness and pride
in the distance. When I thought about it, so was my life content-rich, I knew that I was allowed
to live and had to live because I had someone for It is worth the living for. But now when
I came home ... "

He wanted to tell, but he saw the all-girls at his side, he compassionately looked, as he hesitated
and then said after a long interruption:

"You can you imagine what Emilio is looking forward to coming home, like him, the Yearning, your
parents and see you again! And what could surprise him bad? In Genoa, he has heard that you are
healthy, your letters have reassured him.

You could Perhaps, however, have a noble man happy with your love, with your pure affection
have happy, "repeated Riccardo, without knowing it," and this change
could Emilio might confuse a few hours before he met the man of your
choice.

Oh, Maria! " he suddenly cried out in despair as, "I can not describe to you my homecoming, I I cheated
all my happiness to my whole future! And the most terrible thing is - and this Realization has brought
me your dear sight, which is devastating the safe consciousness I love my sister no more, that
I now my home that I mean Permission had lost to life! O, Maria, Search, not my skill, but you
have Pity on me, forgive me understand my fault if your them too, thank heaven, not can! I will
wait here in the forest until your brother is coming, and excused me from your Parents to whom
I can not return now. My servant will bring me my horse and fürderreiten
I want.

Farewell! "

He stopped and held Maria's hand.

As she spoke, however, his rights in their Hand held:

"Speak to
Emilio, he is able to comfort you, he'll, I hope to bring back to us.

Be my heartfelt sympathy certainly, because I see that you are suffering very much, though
I the cause Your pain can not understand. Look, I'm carefree and happy my youth is gone, and you
are the first man I saw hit by a deep sorrow, a sorrow, the hides can not be sure. That's what I'll
have to think of my life! And I would be truly happy when I am by Emilio mightest know that your
skills to Good has been turned. I wish you with all my heart. Farewell! "

Because once again floated a hot sensation in Riccardo, it pushed
him towards Maria, but He controlled himself, and he kissed her hand
in silence.

Then he slowly turned his horse and went back to the forest to expect Emilio.

X.

It was late in the afternoon, when Emilio coming along the road. Beppino had, however, the horse
Riccardo and his portmanteau to be related and sent a basket of food
and drink, Maria had, and the fellow who had accompanied him, was
with the horse as Spada's back home riding.

Beppino sat angrily on the horses, it had him in Bosco rado liked and he was hoping now finally
can ausfaulenzen properly.

His master was sitting sadly on the road often sighed, clenched his fists and ran his right
hand through the air and then looked again longingly in the direction
of Selva nera whether Emilio still would not come.

"At last, at last," he said then, when his friend was blown clear, therefore, "you have long waiting
for you! leave "

Emilio looked astonished at the distraught face Riccardo, he looked surprised by the packed Beppino
Horses and curiosity leapt out of the saddle.

"Have you been waiting for me," he said. "Have you not met Maria, but the Lunch is already
back riding? "

He also gave Beppino his horse and went to Riccardo, who took him by the hand and its Servant motioned
to withdraw.

"I talked to your sister, Emily, she knows that I am waiting here for you to my leave of you,
for I must leave here today. "

He said this so strange that ascended Emilio:

"Did you hurt in the castle? What happened? "

"You did not offend me," smiled Riccardo cloudy, "but I've been guilty of Emilio! "

"So say it clear, I do not understand! What and who have offended you? It is not so possible!
Torture me not, not just today! "

As Riccardo lowered his eyes and spoke in an excited voice: "Emilio,
you have in your life have a pure girl seduced?

We are young and hot, and I'm no different than you and the other
young nobles.

Have you ever seduced a girl, while the oppression the foolish, thought of the misery of her
mother, to the misfortune of their brothers and sisters? Never did you like the idea because
I know that. I know we. But what would you say, Emilio " - In the eyes Riccardo was a lurking,
and proved his cold voice, the words that he all afternoon had prepared
- "what would you say, what would you do if thou mightest know that
your - sister has been seduced?

"

Since it Emilio took her breast, he drew his sword and held it ready charged shock: "You're crazy,
Riccardo, what are you talking to raging madness? You're mad! Speech, or did you not experience
the next moment! "

But Riccardo laughed, pleased when everything was going as desired, and then he screamed Emilio
in the ears, "to shock, Emilio, to shock, I seduced your sister, seduced by mistake, because I had it apart
to Francesca, the sister Ermete! You know how I asked yesterday on the ride to have her! "

He
laughed cruelly and contemptuously, and shouted again: to "shock"

But Emilio had his arm can fall by the sword, he was appalled at the distorted face Riccardo and
threw his sword aside,

"You're mad, Riccardo," he said heavy sigh, "you're great!" And then he was tall and proud in
front of Riccardo, who looked at him helplessly, and said with contempt mouth: "And my sister
I'm as sure as my bride!"

"Your bride?" Cried Riccardo.

"In my bride," Emilio said quietly.

Since the arms fell limply Riccardo down his body, he snapped together,
that it the hand of his friend, who still held his jacket to keep,
could not, he fell in his knees and said with white lips, "are you
sure your sister!

Everyone says that Brother! Then everything is good, "he whispered to himself," all good. "

He
fell into the dust of the road.

Emilio But the last few hours had
brought the long-awaited happiness, bent about him, an intimate sympathy
with the comrades filled him, he he wiped the cold sweat of the forehead
and then he got up and called for Beppino, he may bring wine. The
instilled them to the powerless, and slowly, slowly turned the blood
back into his cheeks. He leaned on his right arm, he looked for a
long time Emilio and then he sent Beppino gone. He shook his head
as he had to remember only slowly to something, then He expressed
Emilio's hand and said softly. "Francesca" Then he hugged Emilio and
a heavy-born Sobs shook his body, "Maria," he said deeply, "the pure,
holy Mary! One must be strong Can the offense, Emilio, and I am a
coward! Introduce myself a danger and I am a hero! And yet I am a
coward! I wanted to die, from you I wanted to force a friendship,
but I could not, because you're a good man and I are one bad. I moved
out to avenge dishonor my sister, her seducer ... "

He wanted> Ermete
say, 'because he remembered that Emilio love the sister of his mortal
enemy and to him, he felt an infinite respect for his friend, the
brother of Mary, he loved, and he was silent.

But Emilio had heard
the last words of Riccardo's, he recalled a conversation with a Genoese
friends shortly after his landing, he had asked about Ermete Palma,
listen well to maybe something about Francesca. And he recalled a
statement by the Genoese, Ermete that in the bands of Riccardo's sister
languish. A painful realization enlightened the confusion of his thoughts,
he hugged and kissed him on Riccardo damp hair:

"What you must have
suffered, my poor friend! What experience do you have to have terrible
days! "

Since dissolved in the arms Emilios the pain Riccardo and
he said, "I am ashamed my tears do not they do me well as your kindness.
 I think that you acquired over them an influence,
     in its way paternal, and it is in such a capacity that they miss
     you most."

The lady's smile deepened, and in her mind was the thought that if he did not wince at this
bolt he was, indeed, impervious. Then she continued:

     "My interest in this campaign is not alone political nor personal
     to Mr. Grayson, which also means myself, but I have become much
     interested in those who travel with us--that is, those who have
     become the members of our new family. There is Mr. Heathcote, who
     was sent West as our enemy, and quickly turned to a friend. There
     is Mr. Tremaine, who is such a gay old beau, and who never realizes
     that he is too old for the young women with whom he wishes to
     flirt."

The lady stopped again, and her smile was deeper than ever. "Now that was unintended," she
mused, "but it comes in very happily." She resumed:

     "And there is Mr. Hobart, who loves mysteries, especially murder
     mysteries, and who saved the life of that innocent boy. I find him
     a most interesting character, but, after all, he is read with less
     difficulty than Mr. Harley, who, though silent and reserved, seems
     to me to be deeper and more complex. His, I am sure, is a very
     strong nature--Mr. Grayson, you know, is quite fond of him, and in
     certain things has got into the habit of leaning upon him. Mr.
     Harley seems to me to be fitted by temperament and strength to be
     the shield and support of some one. He could make the girl who
     should become his wife very happy, and I am wondering if he will go
     out of our West without forming such an attachment."

"That surely," thought the lady, "will bring him to the question which I present to his mind,
and he will answer it whether he will or not, by saying this attachment has been formed, and
it is for Sylvia." She continued:

     "Like Mr. Grayson, I am very fond of Mr. Harley, who has proved
     himself a true friend to us, and I should like to see him
     happy--that is, married to a true woman, who would not alone
     receive strength, but give it, too. In the course of his vocation,
     he has already roamed about the world enough, and it is time now
     for him to settle down. If I had my way I should select for him one
     of our fine Western girls; about twenty-one or two, I think, would
     be the right age for him--there is a fitness in these things."

"I wonder if that is blunt?" she mused. "No, he will think it just popped out, and that I was
unconscious of it. I shall let it stay." Then she resumed:

     "It ought to be a girl with a temperament that is at once a match
     and foil for his own. She should have a sense of humor, a gift for
     light and ironic speech that can stir him without irritating him,
     because he is perhaps of a cautious disposition, and hence would be
     well matched with one a little bit impulsive, each exercising the
     proper influence upon the other. She should be strong, too,
     habituated to physical hardship, as our Western girls are. Such a
     marriage, I think, would be ideal, and I expect you, Mr. Plummer,
     when you rejoin us, to help me make it, should the opportunity
     arise.
                                  Yours sincerely,
                                            "ANNA GRAYSON."

She folded the sheets, put them in the envelope, and addressed them. It was the second time
that she had written to Mr. Plummer, but with a very different motive, and she had more confidence
in the second letter than she had ever felt in the first.

"That will cause him pain," she reflected, "but the task cannot be done without it."

In her heart she was genuinely sorry for Mr. Plummer, thinking at that moment more of his grief
than of her husband's risk, but she was resolute to mail the letter, nevertheless. She read
it a little later to Mr. Grayson, and he approved.

"It is likely to bring 'King' Plummer raging down from Idaho, but it ought to go," he said.

A half-hour later, this letter, written in a delicate, feminine hand, but heavy with fate,
was speeding northwestward.

XVIII

THE SACRIFICE

A few days after writing this letter, Mrs. Grayson announced that Sylvia would rejoin them
on the following afternoon, having shortened her stay in Salt Lake City, as her relations were
about to depart on a visit to California.

"She wants very much to go on with us," said Mrs. Grayson, "and rather than send her either
to Boisé or to our home, where she would be alone, we are willing for her to continue."

"I should think you would be!" exclaimed Hobart. "Why, Mrs. Grayson, much as we esteem you,
we would start a violent rebellion if you should send Miss Morgan away, a rebellion attended
by bloodshed and desperate deeds."

Mrs. Grayson smiled and glanced at Harley, who was silent. But she did not fail to see the
flash of pleasure under his veiled eyelids.

"Keep your pistol in your pocket and your sword in its sheath, Mr. Hobart," she said; "I shall
not give you occasion to use either."

"Then I declare for peace."

Sylvia joined them at the time mentioned by Mrs. Grayson, quiet, slightly pale, and disposed,
in the opinion of the Graysons, to much thought. "The girl has something on her mind which
she cannot put off," said Tremaine, and in this case he was right.

Sylvia, while in Salt Lake City, far from the influences which recently had brought to her
acute pain and joy alike, considered her position with as much personal detachment as she could
assume. Away from Harley and the magic of his presence and his confident voice, she strengthened
her resolve to keep her word--if "King" Plummer claimed her, he should yet have her. But this
same examination showed her another fact that was unalterable. She loved Harley, and, though
she might marry another man, she would continue to love him. In a way she gloried in the truth
and her recognition of it. It was a love she intended to hide, but it brought her a sad happiness
nevertheless.

It was this feeling, spiritual in its nature, that gave to Sylvia a new charm when she came
back, a touch of sorrow and womanly dignity that all noticed at once, and to which they gave
tribute. It melted the heart of Jimmy Grayson, who knew so well the reason why, and he was
glad now that his wife had written to "King" Plummer.

Sylvia said nothing about Mr. Plummer; if she knew whether he would return and when, she kept
it to herself, and Mrs. Grayson, who was waiting in anxiety for an answer to her letter--an
answer that did not come--was in a state of apprehension, which she hid, however, from all
except Mr. Grayson. This agitation was increased by an event in her husband's career, so unexpected
in its nature and so extraordinary that it was the sensation of the country, and exercised
an unfavorable influence upon the campaign. If any one in the United States, whether friend
or enemy, had been asked if such a thing could occur, he would have said that it was impossible.

In their travels they came presently to Egmont, a snug town, lying in a hollow of the land,
from which they were going to conduct what Hobart called a circular campaign--that is, it was
the centre from which they were to make journeys to a ring of smaller places lying in a circle
about it, returning late at night for sleep and rest.

They were all pleased with Egmont; though less than ten years old, it had houses of brick and
stone, a trim look, and the smoothness of life and comfort that usually come only with age.
It was a pleasure to return to it every night from the newer and cruder villages in the outer
ring, and enjoy good beds and fresh sheets.

But the candidate spoke first in Egmont, and the chairman of the committee that managed the
meeting was the solid man of the town. Harley and his comrades required no information on this
point; it was visible at once in the important manner of the Honorable John Anderson, the cool
way in which he assumed authority, and his slight air of patronage when he came in contact
with the correspondents. Harley and his comrades only laughed; they had often noticed the same
bearing in men much better known in the world than the Honorable John Anderson, of Egmont,
Montana, and they generally set it down as one of the faults of success; therefore they could
smile.

But Mr. Anderson was hospitable, insisting that the candidate and his family, instead of spending
the first night at the hotel, should go with him to his house. "I have room and to spare,"
he said, with a slight touch of importance. "My house will be honored if it can shelter to-night
the next President of the United States."

"Thank you for the invitation," said Jimmy Grayson, gravely. "I shall be glad to join you with
my family and Mr. Harley. Mr. Harley has become in a sense one of my advisers, almost a lieutenant,
I might say."

Mr. Anderson was not intending to ask Harley, as the correspondent knew, but the candidate
had included him so deftly that the important citizen must do so, too, and he widened the invitation
with courtesy. Harley, always in search of new types, always anxious to explore the secrets
of new lands, accepted as promptly as if the request had been spontaneous.

Although his house was only a few hundred yards away, Mr. Anderson took them there in his two-seated,
highly polished carriage, drawn by a pair of seal-brown trotters. "Good horses," he said, as
he cracked his whip contentedly over them. "I brought them all the way from Kentucky. Cost
me a lot, too."

The Anderson house was really fine, built of light stone, standing far back on a wide lawn,
and Harley could see that the good taste of some one had presided at its birth. It had an Eastern
air of quiet and completion. When Mr. Anderson, glancing at his guests, beheld the look of
approval on their faces, he was pleased, and said, in an easy, off-hand manner:

"Been up only four years; planned it myself, with a little help from wife and daughter."

Harley at once surmised that the good effect was due to the taste of the wife or daughter,
or both, and he was confirmed in the opinion when he met Mrs. Anderson, a slight, modest woman,
superior to her husband in some respects that Harley thought important. The daughter did not
appear until just before dinner, but when she came into the parlor to meet the guest the correspondent
held his breath for a moment.

Rare and beautiful flowers bloom now and then on the cold plains of the great Northwest, and
Harley said in his heart that Helen Anderson was one of the rarest and most beautiful of them
all. It was not alone the beauty of face and figure, but it was, even more, the nobility of
expression and a singular touch of pathos, as if neither youth nor beauty had kept from her
a great sadness. This almost hidden note of sorrow seemed to Harley to make perfect her grace
and charm, and he felt, stranger though he was, that he was willing to sacrifice himself to
protect her from some blow unknown to him. Speaking of it afterwards, he found that she had
the same effect upon the candidate. "I felt that I must be her champion," said Mr. Grayson.
"Why, I did not know, but I wanted to fight for her."

Miss Anderson herself was unconscious of the impression that she created, and she strove only
to entertain her father's guests, a task in which she achieved the full measure of success.
Mr. Anderson mentioned, casually, how he had sent her to Wellesley, and Harley saw that her
horizon was wider than that of her parents. But the pathetic, appealing look came now and then
into her beautiful eyes, and Harley was convinced of her unhappiness. Once he saw a sudden
glance, as of sympathy and understanding, pass between her and Sylvia.

It was not long before the secret of Helen Anderson was told to him, because it was no secret
at all. The whole town was proud of her, and everybody in it knew that she was in love with
Arthur Lee, the young lawyer whose sign hung on the main street of Egmont before an office
which was yet unvisited by clients. It was true love on both sides, they said, with sympathy;
they had been boy and girl together, and during her long stay in the East at school she had
never forgotten him. But Mr. Anderson would have none of the briefless youth; his prosperity
had fed his pride--a lawyer without a case was not a fit match for his daughter. "If you were
famous, if it were common talk that some day you might be governor or United States senator,
I might consent, but, sir, you have done nothing," he had said, with cruel sarcasm to Lee.

It was a bitter truth, and Lee himself, high and honorable in all his nature, saw it. The girl,
too, had old-fashioned ideas of duty to parents, and when her father bade her think no more
of Lee she humbly bowed her head. But the town said, and the town knew, that the more she sought
to put him out of her heart, the more strongly intrenched was he there; that while she now
tried to think of him not at all, she thought of him all the time.

The whole story was brought to Harley; it was not in his nature to pry into the sacred mysteries
of a young girl's heart, but the tale moved him all the more deeply when he saw young Lee,
a man with a high, noble brow and clear, open eyes, through which his honest soul shone, that
all might see. He came reluctantly to the
Edge of the pond, his eyes had timidly ventured up and still full of longing to Lalanda, and he remembered
nothing that he can tell her. As it flashed mischievously in her eyes, she handed him back the rights,
however, she was holding with his left hand on the edge of the pond, and since he did not dare take
her hand, she said in her kindest, gentlest Votes:

"You are probably afraid of you, to touch my fingers because they get wet and cool the water?
You warm when you hold it for a moment in your hands! "

As the confused Karolus bent down on her hand, he felt as if he now> knighted should receive the
love, "and his soul was free, because he spoke so lovingly Queen heard. And it seemed a new
miracle to be that the glory that eternal well since Times in their crystal palace at the bottom
of the sea might have lived, now so graciously and so German said
to him, he kissed her hand again and then said, relieved as:

"Thank
you, that you so kindly talk to me!

I never thought I words would find, to thank you for your beauty, and now I can, because you
good are! Pardon me is that I have brought you no water lilies, which you have promised better
And take today, these simple flowers graciously. Tomorrow I will, if your me this favor granted,
bring the most beautiful water lilies, which are related to, "

Lalanda looked Karolus long searching look as if they would first be clear about whether his
strange pathos to be taken seriously or not. But then she smiled almost imperceptibly, swung
out of the water on the shore of the pond, close, very close to Karolus, the awe stepped back and began
to wind roses and lilies in a wreath. When it was finished, they put the colorful ornamental
mischievous on their blond hair, looked Karolus victorious and but pleading from the side and
asked:

"Fallen I not also with the wreath of roses and lilies, your more
challenging?

Gradient I you? "

Since it was Karolus as if a soft and cool hand press his heart, he was very close in the chest
and he knew no answer to her question than the one that he kissed the hand, are still just
his heart had almost painfully harassed. But she flashed seductively from the corner of his eye,
and understood the art of closing the lids do not rest until he had
to reduce stunned and unconscious in his eyes.

Then she said - and put it the dripping fish tail closer to Karolus approach, but without touching
it:

"I still do not know how you name them and dream of who I do when I at night the bottom of
this heinous water or sleep, if I climb on the rocks, my night song sing. Because around here
has a big, huge cathedral standing with mighty bells I feel, and
at midnight the ground rumbles from the sound of her wistful here
Dreams.

Then I get out of the water and take my game to hand and sing. I would like then have your
name in my song! "

Oh, that was the right tone for Karolus! He grabbed the only way to air their poetic Words, now
he was completely defeated, the fluttering soul put in his chest along the wing and was solemn
and quiet satisfaction in their prison, like a bird in a warm cage. He said her with swollen
words who he was and what his name, as after all these years Lalanda a very desperate, and all
this said, despite the pathos in such a sincere and honest tone that Lalanda shouted with pleasure
and joy that their genuine Karolus prepared. And when he now spoke of his happiness that he
had found it at last, that they, the Magnificent, he was finally released, as she leaned her
beautiful blond head gently on his shoulder and saw him from the bottom of so promising and
guarantee that it will would have been almost in his heart and kissed her. But he did not, not
forgetting that it was the Sea Queen, and he is the simple, bland businessman son, and kissed
her not. He looked at just thankful to him a cold shiver rippled down the spine and its Lips were
dry. And he felt like a relief when he remembered the question where they can speak German
so well. She let her head lie on his chest, she took playing his fingers in hers, her eyes were
full of longing and then she told how she often swam at the German
coast and that it has listened to German sailors when at night in
their boats, their tales narrated or sang their melancholy songs.

"And because my heart was far from her song, I understood their language and use it got. And
often when I was sitting on the bottom of the sea in front of my palace, and nachsang a German
song, it sounded like the sailors up a distant, distant echo of their chants, I looked up there
over the edge of their boats tend to look down and in the wonderful mirror, and some one took the
nostalgia so powerful when he heard my song, that him on board his ship no longer suffering and he
got into the water to investigate the sound. But I have never swear the I never want men to
lure me into the sea! Who wants to come to me who has to come voluntarily. And if I knew that
you, dear Karolus, on top of the sea in your boat my song lauschtet,
and if your loving look over the edge of the boat tilted, I would
not keep singing, would fall silent, so that you not be hurt!

"

She looked again with her beautiful, bright eyes, and deeply, until he completely pointless said
of her words as if from a dream out:

"I would rise by itself down to you, O Lalanda, and you definitely need me in your white arms
field, and I want my life to sit next to you and listen to your songs! "

"How sweet, how good you are!" Breathed Lalanda, a shiver of happiness seemed to her body and
shake it lowered the confused looks. But as the ugly dwarf entered the vault, He walked with
noisy steps that corresponded not his small figure, the drummer and
woke her.

"Stand up, you lazy, it's time, the hour is up! Makes it! "Then slid hastily Lalanda into the
water, she filed again Karolus hand and told him a long look: "Good-bye!

See you tonight!

"

And slowly rückgewandtem head she swam out of the room. The door closed behind her, and between
the drummers, who had slung their instruments left stunned Karolus and stunned the room. And
the hard drum roll followed him through the Old Town Square and after him jeered when he was
already removed much of his paradise.

IV

The following day Karolus lived in a fairy tale, and the hours were
for business him, he only spent in longing for the lunch and the short
hours in the evening, when the last guests had departed from the vault
in the Old Town Square and Lalanda only for him once again came swimming
out of their rest rooms.

And it was Wednesday and Thursday has become, two short days remained Lalanda still in Prague,
then had the lovers divorce. Because there was no doubt had to Karolus's in his tremulous heart
itself confess Lalanda the Sea Queen, the Divine, the wonderful, loved him, and bowed his simple
words. She had it been said this evening saying that they count the minutes until he could come to
her that her life seemed stale and unbearable when he are no longer on the water and could
talk to her.

"Look, I'm not as warm as your girls," she said, "my heart beats not as strong in my chest? Do you feel
it, you feel it beat, Karolus?

And now I have unfortunate pull back from there, forever, from city to city, and present the
ugly people myself!

I am unhappy, Karolus, wretched, for I am a prisoner and would like
so much in freedom live, love and laugh and cry as you people, I hug
you, Karolus, and look you in the eye.

And yet no power on earth will save me! "

And Karolus was knocking at her bodice, with its gleaming white breast
my heart felt evenly and quietly, for she was, despite her excitement
a kühlerblütiges mermaids and an infinite pity for the poor, caught
Seekönigin filled his eyes.

"Fly with me," he called out to her how Kandalus in novels, "running away with me, I want you
to defend a world! "

But she pointed melted away silent and sad at her fish's tail, and
his hopes.

"I want somewhere to build a sea or lake a little house for us, you shall in your Water can live
and still be near me, and shalt talk to me and dialogue at night
- "He stopped, he blushed.

"Kiss me," said Lalanda, "kiss me right from the heart!"

And he pressed his lips to her mouth and felt like her lips were hot, hot as he had known it, for
he glowed down to the heart and his mouth was still in the Night of her burning hot kiss. And
when she does her white, bare arms around his neck wound and pressed him to her and would
not let go, as he closed his eyes, he hugged they pushed and they still have a fixed die and
imagined.

"I must save you, you must be mine," he said, deep breath adding, "my forever!"

As a smile, a winning smile crossed her face, she repeated her hot
Hugs, then quickly slipped into the water, for the dwarf had entered
the vault to the gates close.

"Think of your promise," she called after the departing one. He stood on the Old Town Ring, he raised his
rights as an oath against the sky and said solemnly sternenbesäeten
into the evening, "I swear!"

That night, when at last his eyes closed a restless slumber, dreamed
again Karolus he stood on the shore.

The moonlight lay in a broad, shiny stripes on the ever moving waves
and came in the middle of the wide strip of moonlight from the edge
of the horizon Lalanda zugeschwommen on him.

He saw very clearly in the distance, her blond, soft hair, Her head rose like a great, fantastic
flower from the blue-shimmering water. She came closer and closer
and then she stretched out her arms and waved to him.

And very clearly he heard her voice anxiously: "Karolus Karolus, save me But he was on the shore,
he looked despairingly at the mistress, who wrestled with the waves,
he wanted to plunge into the sea, but a terrible thought stopped him.

"I can not swim!" he said dully to himself only, he said it louder and louder, he shouted
Lalanda to: "I can not swim!"

Since a malicious end, horrible laughter echoed from the sea towards
him, lifted Lalanda again high out of the waves, then she sank into
the sea.

And only a few water lilies and lily floated helpless and miserable on the waves and described
the site disappeared from the Lalanda was.

Karolus awoke from his dream, the cold sweat stood on his forehead.

The father was came to his bed, crying his Karolus had awakened him.

"What you have only bad dreams Karolus" he asked.

"Thank God that there are only dreams," said his son.

"I had a terrible dream!"

As he sat at breakfast with his father, because he was suddenly overcome by his heart and he
wanted the father confessed everything. And he began to speak and said, "Father !...«

But more, he could not bring his lips, he did not say how he would have been the father also
intended that a miracle had happened, that it had chosen a sea queen!

"Father," he said, and when his good father looked at him sympathetically, as joined his lips,
a dark red colored his cheeks and his eyelids drooped.

"What do you want from me?" Asked the father and all the goodness of his heart, all love his One
was in his words: "What if there were, I could not give you"

But Karolus eyes wandered about the room, he looked anxiously at his
father for a few seconds, but he had no words.

"Do you need money?" Asked the father.

Since Karolus nodded his head yes, he would need money, but the father
will forgive him if he could not say what for.

Since he was the father, who was accustomed to trust his son necessarily because he's good behavior
and virtue know, money, more than expected Karolus.

He took it with heartfelt thanks, He had the vague feeling that he would need to Lalandas abduction
money, much money, and thus He did not want to save. will> I work as a servant, 'he said to
himself, I> want me the bloody hands work, but first I must save them <!

Noon, the last lunch, which was indulged him, he brought along with
the water lilies Lalande narrow little ring, a heart hanging from
a chain out and he put the ring ceremony the slender fingers without
speaking anything.

She hugged and kissed him stormy, yet hotter than yesterday and looked
more deeply into the eyes, and with one voice, the tender and yet
very different, both real and heartfelt sound than before, "she said
to him:

here "Take me away from, take me with you, I will be yours
forever, just save me of the dwarfs, save me from the water here,
I'm dying of shame and disgust at this Travel about the world, this
Ausgestelltsein, I long for peace and happiness, I envy the other
girls, I long for a home life they wanted ......« say, the mermaid
from the dark north, and she thought it well to their gleaming, beautiful
crystal palace at the bottom of the sea.

But she stopped, as it in this Words had arrived, she looked Karolus rapidly from the side,
searching, almost impatiently. But he looked full of pity and slowly nodded his head. "You do not
know," said she sadly, "I had to endure it all, how much shame and misery, as I tired of this
I live! "

Karolus and caressed her in intimate sympathy arms, he stroked her cheek and He sighed at the
melancholy idea that this beautiful, noble, royal mermaid the misery of earthly things is not spared,
that she must suffer, and certainly the misery painful feeling as a human child. And his finger
slipped compassionate and yet respectfully on the scales of her fish tail, which was daintily
on the edge of the pond.

"Did you really love me then," asked Lalanda.

"I adore thee," said Karolus, and as if that I> up <revere too bold, he added the words in Baronzo>
Unforgettable lovers <Graziosa says to: "My Night is full of full of thy sun and my day of your
moon light, you queen! "

There sounded suddenly the door of the drum roll of the two musicians, cruel and outrageous close,
and also the dwarf was already in the store. Karolus turned to go, he expressed only quickly
dwarf the one gold in his hand. When he then turned back again, raised Lalanda hand out of
the water, the little ring on her finger glittered like a star in the night, then they vanished.
And already the first visitors entered the vault.

V.

In the afternoon, in all the small shops of interest of the business had to keep Karolus think of
the evening. But his plans and kidnapping were not thought about the words: 'Today after hours,
'he did not know what will happen, he could not get as far as complete
a specific plan.

Once he realized he would adopt them, they should her round, smooth arms around his neck loop, so
he wanted it to Moldova, to River, bear down to it there to hand over their items, and he
himself would be in a Kahne her side bleeder screws until they find somewhere outside of Prague in a quiet
refuge. But he rejected this idea, the city soldiers would arrest him safely on the way or the
shipper would take him down there on the Vltava River and, at the police station. He, too, despaired
of his strength, the sweet, gentle creature who to the Vltava River to can. He wanted to wait
in any case against nine in the evening a carriage clock on Old Town Square Which can he thought
for a moment to provide a Wasserkufe in the car but also that would attract attention. Then what would
happen next, he had to leave to fate, the God of the lovers they would shielding them safe
and be gracious. He went afternoon home to fetch his great cape, which he wanted Lalanda put
around the body when He wore it to the water. He put the money to himself, had made a round sum
for necessary Case, the dwarf to bribe them and then took two bottles
of the heaviest in the evening Hungarian wine in the bags, get drunk,
the two drummers, if they were awake.

'This is the best way! 'he said to himself, thinking of a passage in a novel predator, where the
Jailer's daughter freed the knight. He passed quietly, but with a long handshake from his father,
who nachschaute him shaking his head, and was hurried, and ran through the streets, pressed
the two bottles to his chest until he was almost breathless at the
Old Town Ring arrived.

He came too early, but the place was as dark as in a first, only from some Shops and taverns came
a dull pale lamplight in the twilight. The sky had lost his lights, he was blue gray, but without
color, almost cloudless. Only a small thin clouds seemed to have caught at the top of Teinturmes
and hung up there as a melancholy flag with which the wind plays.

From Lalandas window a dull beam of light fell into the darkness under the arbor, but it seemed
as if a flock of curious people stood still in front of her door. Now was heard, also reiterate faint
drum roll through the silence, then heard Karolus in the shade of the houses prowling, as
the voice of the dwarf got up and announced that one more time of
admission allowed is the one who wished to see the miracle would happen
again, now, then join the door for good.

Then Karolus saw a trembling heart still a lot of people in the Connect vault and stood shivering
and longing, as in awaiting his cue to his dark items. He looked at the door, he stood before a deep
breath, as the beloved; Single, miraculous in a short half-hour will take over the threshold,
here at the narrow Teingäßchen will wait the car and drive quickly with them from there. Where?
The Karolus now knew himself not to talk with Lalanda will bring
certainty where, oh, happy at least in a future.

"I was supposed to carry a dagger," he remembered, and his fingers
clenched together, as if they already held the handle of a dagger
and would have to happen.

"For much danger waits to me and many adventures's is to exist! If soft, the drummers do not!
" He reached for the bottle in his coat, "if the dwarf is not to impress!"

At this moment the door opened to Lalandas store and the strip of light was Flash and wider into
the darkness. Then the noisy satisfied curiosity came from the vault out, they stood together
in groups, a tardy stragglers came in last over the threshold. Then the two drummers were out the
door, they took the big picture Lalandas that were hung on both sides of the entrance, and
carried them down in the Laden, then they came again with their drums and went on to the Old
Town Square Home.

"Thank God," said Karolus, "which are not awake," And then, he could not believe his eyes no,
then the dwarf appeared in the door, he looked around suspiciously, as if he on someone wait, then
he opened the door again and said a few words into the vault. And then - Karolus had retreated
deeper into the dark - then walked away from the well.

> Solo <rejoiced in it Karolus soul, it> is alone, she waits for me, she loves me I will save
it, it will be mine! He <the dwarf looked after until he disappeared
into the darkness.

A final paralyzing suspicion grew in him, the dwarf could lock the
door behind him have!

He hurried to the door, with wasted energy he turned the latch, and the Door opened wide and
he rushed into the vault.

On the edge of the tub, awaiting his lay Lalanda, in light of the
lamp lit her white Breast out from the dark bodice and her eyes were
laughing at him because she held out her arms to him.

"Finally," she said, "you come at last!

I was afraid you did not come! "

He fell into her arms, she took his head and dotted his mouth with hot kisses. "Do you love me?"
She asked again and again between the glowing kisses. "Do you love me really? "

And they covered up that his mouth to her neck and kiss her breasts fine approach had. He turned his
head back, he was startled at the touch of soft, warm Sammethaut, when he had to apologize that he
had touched a sanctuary. Then he laid his cloak down, had the two bottles of wine in his pockets
and said, "were for the two Drummer, if you have spoiled us, or for
the dwarf, his envy when we are not alone would have left.

Thank God, they are gone, and now let us advise Lalanda as I deliver thee. A car is waiting
outside on our flight, but as I get up in the car, you Wonderful! And you will bear it on dry land?
Will you survive?

For before we out of the city Moldova to come, probably half an hour
goes by and then I will slide back up into the water and stand on
the shore and follow you until we find a quiet place, or to leave
if your desire into the sea retires, I will on the banks of the rivers
up in the face walk until we reach the sea!

"

Since Lalanda directed from the periphery of the pond, she moved her head close Karolus', very
close approach to her mouth and asked, almost mysteriously again:

"Do
you love me true, you long for me?

Swear to me that you love me! "

And Karolus shuddered, so solemn was the question he raised two fingers
of his Right to the oath in the height and said gravely:

"I love
you, I long for you. I am happy that you raised me with your love.
I want nothing else but that you love me! "

"O wretched, poor, poor
Karolus," said Lalanda sad, "that you just love me must, just tell
me that I half fish, half man am! However, you were worthy to be up
an nice man loved and happy! "

"But I will not help you, Lalanda,"
exulted Karolus, "I love you because you are so you are so wonderful,
exceedingly beautiful and wonderful, so regal and exalted! "

"You
Karolus good," she replied, "I know you I want to make the suffering
less having to feel if I "- her voice was solemn again, but there
was as yet a joy in her words - "if I do not now the next moment to
a happy, could make people happy! Screw the wick of the lamp back,
I will give you a secret betrayed, I want to end your worries. I've
been thinking all day if I tell thee is whether you are worthy to
know. But you love me, do you want me out of this misery To free you
long for me, we want to be happy! "

Karolus followed her behalf,
his fingers trembled as he bolted back to the wick, so strangely,
the words sounded like an incantation Lalandas; as Jaromir he felt
as Cleopas, Wizards of the Moore, invites him to his cave. And it
was almost dark in the room.

"Lock the door," she commanded.

He
turned the key, he tried to see if the door is closed. Then said Lalanda:
"Turn your face from me and wait until I call you. Then turn up quickly
in order, look at me rapidly! But only for a moment! But then close
my eyes, that I from you do not die! "

"What are you about?" Said
Karolus in deep agitation, "what should I know?" And he thought no
different than that now open the floor and he Lalanda with deep, deep
in a shaft will sink to wake up at the bottom of the sea in front
of her palace. Mr. Lee, through his victory to-night, wins the
girl whom he loves, and he could have won her in no other way. There are people who can do
great deeds and make great sacrifices for love, even to help the love of two others. It will
be printed in every paper of the United States in the morning that Mr. Grayson was defeated
in debate to-night by a young local lawyer. His prestige will be greatly impaired."

Her eyes glowed, and her face, too, became rarely tender.

"Uncle James was truly great to-night!" she exclaimed.

"At his greatest. I know of no other man who could have done it. After all, Sylvia, don't you
think love is the greatest and purest of motives, and that we should consider it first?"

"John," she said, and it was the first time that she had ever called him by his first name,
"you must not tempt me to break my sacred word to the man to whom I owe all things. Oh, John,
don't you see how hard it is for me, and won't you help me to bear it, instead of making the
burden heavier?"

She turned upon him a face of such pathetic appeal that Harley was abashed.

"Sylvia," he replied, almost in a whisper, "God knows that I do not wish to make you unhappy,
nor do I wish to make you do what is wrong. I spoke so because I could not help it. Do you
think that I can love you, and know you to be what you are, and then stand idly by and see
you passing to another? I believe in silence and endurance, but not in such silence and endurance
as that. It is too much! God never asks it of a man!"

She looked at him. Her eyes were dewy and tender, filled with love, a love tinged with sorrow,
but he saw the brave resolution shining there, and he knew that, despite all, she would keep
her word unless "King" Plummer himself willingly released her from it. And he loved her all
the more because she was so true.

"Sylvia," he said, "I was wrong. I should not have spoken to you in such a manner. I am a weak
coward to make your duty all the harder for you."

They were at the "ladies' entrance" of the hotel, and the others either had gone in or had
turned aside. They were alone, and she bent a little towards him.

"The things that you say may be wrong," she whispered, "but--oh, John--I love to hear you say
them!"

Then she went into the hotel, and Harley wisely did not seek to follow.

XIX

AN IDAHO STORM

Among the mountains of Idaho, a dark storm-cloud, ribbed with flashes of steel-edged lightning,
was growing. And in
the dense forest shade, sitting, they told each other about their lives.

"I will even be something big," he said, the father "would like to become a soldier but I would
rather be a scientist or a famous doctor or a Pope in Rome lives. And the mother, dear mother,
"..... he interrupted himself but because he had a glimpse of Berta did and now he was silent
affected. The two large blue eyes in addition to his own, he was sorry, they were so sad, and
suddenly threw his arm around the shoulders of his playmate: "You must always stay with us,
with us it is beautiful, and when I come to the monastery to learn, you have to in my place
at the - at the father and the mother to stay. In the summer I will always return back home to
you, and then do we go together into the woods and I want to be your teacher. Will you, will
you? " he asked in the emphatic nature of children.

"Yes, I will," she said. "But once you have moved us to come to the palace." This her once so
close to Leon approached and lowered her voice and whispered in his ear: "And then you have about
the dark passage into the large room go to where the poor woman is
sad, and you have to say that it should not be so sad to come with us!

Do you want you? "

"Your mother," said Leon mysterious and proud that he knew the truth. "Is that my mother? "brought
the pale lips Bertha gasped. "I have no mother! If she is my mother, the poor, frightened
woman over there, why not let me to her? Why she has the arms so stretched out before him, as she
saw me?

"And she stretched hands away from him and made the terrified face of larvae, as then, since they
are the sick had been.

Then the boy but did not answer, and they were closely entwined under the old tree, and she wept
as the boy shook the tears just always restrained himself and stroked.

"Mother,"

Leon said at dawn, when they were alone together, "Mother, tell me, why Berta not know that
the wife is sick in the great room in the castle her mother? Why she cries, and believes that
they have no mother? "

Stood up and took the mother and Berta told her mild and gentle, that these pale woman in the hall
just her mother was a good, dear mother, that she was only sick for
a fog have sunk before their eyes, so that they neither count, nor
even their own beloved could see a child and desire always after them
and bring them hope.

Then, when the Count of she would come and speak lovingly to her,
then she does not believe him, and no doctor had been can heal.

But will surely come once the great physician, heal and redeem them will!

"And I will be," said the boy.

"You do not, you really do not," said the shocked mother, "I'm up to these Words not think so God
my soul and keep you! "And they crossed the Boys.

"But I want to make her mother Berten healthy and happy Berta," defied
the boy.

"And therefore I will study hard in the monastery and then learn more and learn more until
I have a Doctors will be famous. And then I will make the Countess Berta healthy and should
be happy and laugh, "And he added profound", for you must know, mother, that Berta still has
not laughed since she is with us, and I have it already but the story of Silly Peter talks
about you yourself must always laugh! "

"I did laugh but they've seen," said the mother.

       "In the night I met with the pine logs are placed in the hands of
her bed, and she always has when the light of their Face flitted,
laughing in his sleep.

You see, just like now, not loud, but their Face laughed. And since she has been dreaming surely
a nice fairy tale, "Yes," said Berta eagerly, "and Leon rode a horse and it was winter and the
horse had shoes on fur your feet!

"

Then they laughed all three laughed and Berta's voice loudly.

* * * * *

As the autumn was come, and should take the boy from Berta farewell,
as he led them again in the forest, her favorite cookies and they
were both anxious and sad.

"You did it well, Berta," Leon said, "you're over the winter to stay with us, but I must and
can continue until a year or two back. "

"Why in two years?" Berta asked in alarm.

"Because now I will be a choir boy.

Since I have to stay over the summer at the monastery. But maybe they'll let me in the next few
years at home and still keep me first in a year in the monastery. "

"But I do not want you to stay away," said Berta, almost angrily, "and if I tell my Father say
he will ban the monastery people! "

"Until then, you've forgotten me long ago," said the boy, "is what
you because of me!"

       

As he looked at the girl with a long, reproachful eyes and it was very close to go, because
slowly covered her eyes with a moist sheen and was to tears, which trickled over her big and
heavy eyelids. And she could not say no Little word, because her lips trembled Sun The boy was
completely baffled by her and also knew nothing better to do, and wept. And then the two went
hand in hand and always back home sobbing.

"The fact that only the mother sees nothing," said Leon.

"The fact that only the mother does not notice anything," sobbed Berta.

And it was them, whether as a heavy Mystery, almost like a crime, they both still chain closer together,
and knew it not what they had done. And drove away as Leon the next day that he raised, as the
mother at the gate just looked away, the hands folded in prayer against
Berta and she nodded full consent to, though not both knew what they
express so mysterious wanted.

And the car disappeared into the forest.

* * * * *

But there were still different when the children had believed. When Leon next year back home and
went from the mountain top, the dairy farm in the valley below lie looked peaceful, as he patted
the Heart be almost painful to think that he now Berta see again after he the year had so much
yearned. But his lips while saying the words: "Love, Love Mother,
seeing as I am for you!

Oh dear, dear ....« and already spoke the lips further - "dear little Bertha, how will you
tell me your appearance with sad eyes!"

Then he was shocked at the betrayal of his lips and closed his eyes,
to right direction to think the mother and to scare away any other
thought.

But he was in between Berta sometimes say, or he went to the floor and said to himself in
playful Atreb Knabenart, Atreb and Noel, as if they were both from the biblical story!

The car stopped near the gate, the driver was notified by the whip,
courtiers, and there stood the father, and laughed in the sunshine
and the boys ran to meet her mother.

Only Berta was missing.

And then Leon was in the arms of the mother and the father was the kiss of him from the grave, tenderness
barren man always so excited, and had much to say and tell, and then
he went on his mother's hand through the rooms and barns and utility
rooms, and learned everything new, had gone to the court.

In the dark passage behind the barn, he took up his courage and asked, "What's on New Castle?
Live the Countess to? "

As a smile flitted over her mother's face and answered mildly, and laid her hand while Leon's on Main,
"Berta comes this year not to us, it is now placed in a noble pen
been where it should stay a few years to learn manners and courtly
manner.

And the Countess lives in the tower in the forest and did not recover. "

As the boy lowered his pale face and the mother saw that a hope in his heart was broken, she saw
his lips quivering as she stepped out of the darkness. She squeezed the boy's head warmer, and
said: "Poor countess," as they believed, that the boy, the sad fate
of the sick woman so hurt.

And then Leon came to the monastery and became a chorister and in the year after, he fell into
a severe illness from which he recovered only slowly, and he was twenty-one old when he left the
monastery to move to Italy and then in the deep shaft of Science descend.

But first he stayed a few weeks at home, and the eyes of his parents
looked worried on the pale face of the slim young man, and feared
the separation.

       

The duty requires that Leon is the only supporter of his studies, Count imagine and plead with
him for more grace.

And so he rode slowly down the valley trail because one morning there, not like a soldier, he would
have should be, but rather as a scholar, tired sitting on the horse and the little horse entirely
the choice of letting the pace, so that the sun was already quite in decline, as he White
Castle Eberstein reached.

"Is the dear Count at home," he asked the porter at the castle gates.

"The coming home at night! But the Countess Bertha was at home, whether the Knights are not
the answer ? Would say "

"If I may listen to the gracious Countess?" Since said his lips. But his heart was again very
childish and become a humble fear is tormented. Because he had often in the past Years thought
of that summer, and the memory was dear to him and remained deeply value. "And reports a respectful
greeting of Leon Knight Feldegg of the dairy farm in a valley, whether the Countess may still
remember him? "

If only his heart had not fared too painful!

It did since the disease always if he was excited. And now there was really no reason for it!
is said Leon, as He was alone. The children's dreams but truly no longer fit into his learned
head. If she still wants to remember the weeks in the dairy farm! And he saw beside his mother
Berta are, as he was then driven to the monastery, and he saw her thoughtful child's face wave
at him.

But as was already the gatekeeper and brought him to the palace, where he was the young Countess
expect.

* * * * *

You met him at the threshold of the big room, it usually her father's
business wont to do.

It was dark in the corridor and he was in the first moments after he bowed deeply to see her face,
but he saw against the brightness of the Room a tall girl and a lovely
voice heard form: "Come in to me, Leon Knight,"! to him like an organ
tone went through the soul.

And now he came in behind her high in the hall, embraced his gaze in wonder and disbelief her
slim, elegant figure, and he blushed, as she turns to him and he
touched her breasts gentle curvature, because he is a miracle seemed
that the Virgin of the child at that time should be.

And he was terrified and hurt at this Thoughts.

Then she stood facing each other and looked at each other. He stammered a few words lost of
gratitude, guilt and duty, until he held out his hands and thank him welcomed. She remembered
so well from that of his childhood, when he admittedly however become a scholar is he who must
think about more serious things than to those childhood days.

She said all this with her dark voice, and so perfect and think that Leon, confused and amazed
at his words do not speak and was finally warmer with emphasis, as the custom might correspond
to tell how many times he thought that time and how each: Ave Maria, Mother ...., but as he
hesitated because he wanted to say that he, on his return to the Monastery was then performed
as a boy to the words 'mother' in the Our Father always Berta's mother
to think, and that he had maintained this practice even then out of
habit.

Now he was frightened because he wanted to get away from this confession, he was caught red and
his heart turn to tug on that he had to breathe deeply to master it.

Countess Berta had seen him turn red and pale, and, almost without
her knowing she was very close to Leon approached and asked him if
he had also always been good and as Mother and father-being, and whether
the lady Anna was still so lively.

As much as he could and happy to report, though it troubled him that he was not after Berta's
mother in the tower above should ask.

And then he said abruptly: "I now want me by your lordship's father
for permission ask to go to Italy at the high school to learn the
secrets of medicine and to become a doctor.

"

"How did you made back then," said Berta.

Then they were silent for a while, suddenly filled with heavy tears Berta's eyes and quivering
lips, she said, "I thank You! "

And as if the tears and the same would bring all their suffering before her soul, she went on:
"Leon, You know not how unhappy I am! "

"Countess Berta, dear, dear Berta, you unhappy? And I think in pride and happiness! What torments
you, Berta, dear Countess Berta, tell me, what makes you unhappy? "

Leon, it seemed as if Berta falter, and he caught the trembling, "If I could help you! My poor,
dear ... "

       Then she sat up, her eyes were full of fear and looked helpless and
seeking help in Leon's eyes: "Who can help me!

I cry for sympathy, for a little compassion and quality and it gives me cold and empty words
jewels and clothes. I am unhappy! " And his eyes with his hands covering: "Unhappy!"

And since disappeared from their bodies packed tightly together as in a sinking the years since
she had not seen each other, and the child leaned back on the Berta Chest of the boy Leon, they
felt that they had each been waiting all these years. And he said, in her dark hair evening that
his lips touched, always the same words of Pity: "O my poor, dear love!"

She fought back tears, she shook, and looked for a word and could not find one, that would have
opened up their lips so tightly pressed together the suffering it, and finally had they found
the floor and screamed it up out of her mind: "Pity! Only a Tränentröpflein Pity! "

Then he led the excited to the wide chair, probably the Earl's seat, if the Administration
or peasants, interrogated and let them slide down gently.

He knelt down beside her and said still and mild it to a. And spoke so quietly and gently,
that she suddenly the voice of his Mother after many years and heard that her heart calmed down.

"When
you want your trust me your sorrow, that I sense about your life,"
he said. "When I can see you again? "

"Tomorrow, with the mother
platform, the evening bells ringing," she said.

And then they rose,
they were facing each other hand in hand and her eyes were long together.
They said nothing but their names and knew that they all mixed up,
everything had said ......

And Leon was when he left alone in the
hall waiting for the count, as if the walls of his still the words
and Berta Leon shouted, and he had no other thought and heard delight
in this simple melody.

Then he spoke to the Count no more than the
shy scholar, he spoke openly and free with him as a knight, and the
earl promised him and henceforth protection and support.

The little
horse but was surprised when Leon rode home into the evening, as the
knight had so changed. And even if it did not understand what he meant
by the words of my horse> at Fur boots had <thought it be something
dear, because then stroked the Knight he did tender his neck. And
his little bell rang brightly through the silence.

* * * * *

When
Leon came home at night because his heart was so full of hope because
the lovely, slender Girls he had so warmly familiar, that the youthful
pride at the reception of her love almost made him cheer. But slowly
fell, drop by drop, suffering in his cup, suffering over the unknown
fate of his mistress, pain that shook his soul, innermost Sorry for
the loved ones that he the hour of reunion, not so much a yearning
for the presence of his chosen ones longed for, as from the desire
to tell her good, her to stroke her hands and suffering to learn the
cause to help her. Because the mother Illness but it was now probably
never be what she attracted so painful.

Afternoon climbed because
his horse ascended the steep path to the round tower, on the firs
peaked. Then Leon swung from the saddle, the reins wall around a trunk
and looked up to the tower, which stood on the summit of the mountain
station and looked far into the country.

"How much misery do you
hide," Leon said half aloud to himself for, "resident and your misery
deeper sorrow for the poor girl who was so worthy to be happy and
beautiful to let your eyes wander above her father's country. "

Then
he stepped out of the trees and sat on the stone bench, which, from
its Blocks formed, throwing the tower and was overgrown with moss.
Down there he saw the white Castle, and in that valley over there
had to be his parents' house, but he could not find it. Plummer,
the political ruler of the mountains. And the burden of all these despatches was fast-coming
evil for Jimmy Grayson.

Nor was the candidate long in hearing of it. The very next day a Boisé newspaper containing
a full first-page account of it reached them, and was read aloud to the party by Mr. Heathcote.
Mr. Grayson made no comment as it was being read, but Harley once saw his face darken and his
lips close tightly together; this was the only sign that he gave, and it quickly passed.

But the others were not so chary of words. The train was full of indignant comment, and the
ears of "King" Plummer in the distance must have burned.

"I could not have believed it of him," said Mr. Heathcote. "It is untrue to the man's whole
nature, even if he is swayed suddenly by some powerful emotion."

Hobart glanced at Sylvia, who had withdrawn to the far end of the car, where she was apparently
gazing at the mountains that fled by, although she said not one word and her face was red.
Nor did Harley join in the talk, but, taking advantage of the slight bustle caused by Mr. Grayson's
retirement to the drawing-room, he took refuge in a day car to which their own coach was attached
for the time. That evening, while the others were at dinner, he saw Sylvia alone.

"I ought to tell you," she said, "that I have asked to leave the train, but my aunt has refused
to consent to it. She says she needs me, and as I cannot go now to my old home in Boisé, it
is better for me to stay with her. I have heard that you asked to be recalled to the East,
and I honor you for it."

"Are you sorry that my request was refused?" asked Harley.

She did not falter, although the red in her cheeks flushed deeper.

"No, I am not sorry; I am glad," she replied. "Why should I tell an untruth about what is so
great a matter to both of us? But it cannot change anything."

Harley felt that this was, indeed, a maid well worth winning, and his hope yet to find a way,
which had been weakened somewhat lately, grew high again. That night wild resolves ran through
his mind. He would sacrifice his pride, hitherto an unthinkable thing--he would see "King"
Plummer and tell him that Sylvia and he loved each other, that neither of them could possibly
be happy unless they were wedded, then he would appeal to the older man's generosity; he would
tell him how Sylvia loyally meant to keep her word and pay her debt of gratitude with herself,
then he would ask him to release her from the promise. But he gave up the idea as one that
required too much; he could never humiliate himself so far, and even then it would be a humiliation
without result.

If Harley had undertaken to carry out such a wild idea, he would have found it difficult, because
no one in the party then knew where "King" Plummer was; they were hearing of him all over the
West, and the Denver, Salt Lake, and smaller newspapers were filled with accounts of his doings,
all colored highly. His bolt, they said, was now an accomplished fact; he showed the deepest
hostility to the candidate, and he was also in constant correspondence with a powerful and
dissatisfied wing in the East.

Mr. Grayson never said a word, he never spoke of Mr. Plummer in any of his speeches, and Harley
believed there was only sadness in his mind, not anger, whenever he thought of the "King."

But there could be no doubt of the effect of all these events upon the campaign; to the public
Jimmy Grayson seemed as one lost in the wilderness, and only in the mountains, where the people
were far from the great centres of information, did they yet cherish a hope of his election.
Churchill wrote to the Monitor that Jimmy Grayson himself had abandoned hope.

Ominous rumblings were coming from the East, too. Goodnight, Crayon, and their friends had
found a pretext upon which to take drastic action, and they were about to take it.

XX

THE GREAT PHILIPSBURG CONFERENCE

If ever you go to Philipsburg, which is in Wyoming, not far from the Montana line, you will
hear the people proclaim the greatness of the town in which they live. You expect this sort
of thing in the Far West, and you are prepared for it, but you will be surprised at the nature
of the Philipsburg boast. Its proud inhabitants will not tell you that it is bound to be the
largest city between the Missouri and the coast, they will not assert that since the horizon
touches the earth at an equal distance on all sides of the town, it is, therefore, the natural
centre of the world; but they will tell you stories of the Great Philipsburg Conference, and
some of them will not be far from the truth.

Philipsburg is but a hamlet, fed by an irrigation ditch that leads the life-giving waters down
from a distant mountain, and it has neither the beauty of nature nor that given by the hand
of man, but the people will point importantly to the square wooden hotel of only two stories,
and tell you that there occurred the great crisis in the most famous and picturesque Presidential
campaign ever waged in the United States; they will even lead you to the very room in which
the big talk occurred, and say, in lowered voices, that the furniture is exactly the same,
and arranged just as it was on that momentous night when the history of the world might have
been changed. In this room the people of Philipsburg have a reverential air, and there is cause
for it.

The affair did not begin at Philipsburg--it merely had its climax there--but far away on the
dusty plains of eastern Washington, where the wheat grows so tall, and it bubbled and seethed
as the candidate and his party travelled eastward, stopping and speaking many times by the
way. It was all about the tariff, a dry subject in itself, but, as tall oaks from little acorns
grow, so a dry subject often can make interesting people do interesting things.

At the convention that nominated Mr. Grayson for the Presidency the subject of the tariff had
been left somewhat vague in the platform, not from deliberate purpose, but merely through the
drift of events; the question had not interested the people greatly in some time; other things
connected with both the foreign and internal policy of the government, particularly the continued
occupation of the Philippines and a projected new banking system, were more to the fore; but
as the campaign proceeded certain events caused the tariff also to be brought into issue and
to receive a large share of public attention. 

"Oh, you wretched girl," cried he in his sudden anger, "you go behind me like that?" And he fell
by the circle in front of the torch bearers of Screaming, he tugged at the man she lie in the
lap was that he fell heavily to the ground, and he saw that the man was dead, and struck a terrible
pool and struck his thigh and laughed: "So I got you interfered with your loved ones! Mr. Landgraf,
your rival does not fear that gives cold Kisses that you do nothing in this life! "

As Berta had been thrown over her lover, she covered him with her body and his father fought
with the menacing raised right.

"Do not touch him, not daring to touch him!"

A breathtaking excitement was all caught, all eyes stared at the three, the Father the daughter,
and her dead lover, and no one noticed that from the tower and a
gaunt stooped old woman in wegschlich, with looks from another world,
the group lit staring, and then disappeared in the dark woods ....

Now,
however, Berta threw over the corpse, she pressed her lips to the
pale lips of the dead drank and drank, drank greedily and ecstasy
from his mouth.

Then she jumped slightly from the floor, she looked happy and drunk around him, her lips cried
and could not not speak, and now she laughed confused and lost, then she bent down, as they have
forgotten something, then she took the glass panel at the bank and rushed into the tower, slamming
the door behind him. The people out there but stood motionless, not knowing what to do now,
when everyone waiting for a cue from the other, and all looked on the count, if he buys the silence.
The stooped down at last to the dead, then He nodded slowly and affirmatively, he did violence to
his hard-pressed lips and said: "Bring the people in the valley Meier her son, they should
have their part!"

Then he beckoned to the young Landgrave and they mounted their horses.

It was dark in the forest and they did not know as they rode home in silence, why at the first
turn of the road which Horses reared. There, the torch bearers were shortly afterwards the
old Countess and dead its a skinny little horse, which dragged a torn reins and she sniffed.
The bound they light the corpse on the seat and moved to the valley.

       * * * * *

Drinking in the round tower, from where the view was far, far wander through the woods, sat Berta at
the window, which her mother had left her. She sat still and mild with a happy Smile on her lips
as she held the glass in Leon's hands and watched day and night down through the window that
he had brought her into the country. Her blue, unfathomable dark blue eyes were wide open and
sunk in deep dreams, she often listened excited when they hear a distant shout, then she bent
down again close to the Window and smiled at it and kissed it, and the nurse, who now had her
foster child again, very often wept over the gentle goodness of their wards and told more and
more examples like Leon's mother when she came to visit. Berta also be made by it stroked, but she
spoke not a word more, and only looked intently through the miracle of glass, the longing could take.

And
that it took many a year, and it came to the miracle that one morning
Berta sat with closed eyes behind the glass window and the glass,
which in previous Geschimmert blue moons had become very dark blue,
was so deeply blue as Berta's eyes had been.

And as the nurse's main Berta up and opened her sunken eyes, because the blue was gone in it,
his eyes were clear as water, transparent as air. Then she covered the lids of the eyes, like
two big balls through the thin lids are . Bulges She laid the body of the asleep on her bed, and
the corpse was so docile and gentle, as if even the soul of the dead dwell in it. Then she
took the Glass from the window like a holy trembling and covered with a silk cloth to the Countess
about it. She hesitated a long time before she left out of the room, she always had to look to
the camp, as there still would have to open the lids slumbering again on the big eyes, as
would have their breasts stand out after a heavy sigh and lower back, now that the miracle had
happened to the glass. But the blissful, unspeakably sweet smile at the peaceful, thin lips did not
dissolve, the sigh was the big eyes and remained behind the lids concealed.

As the nurse knelt again at the bedside of the dead down as she sighed from the bottom right Bottom
of my heart, and then crossed the dead, while great drops ran down her cheeks.

And then she went up and down solemnly into the palace to report the
death of Berta.

The blue glass but it returned the same day the people Meier.

       * * * * *

This is the story of the count's daughter and the blue box, as I cited in the remote forest in
the beautiful little church grave times dreaming. And I think that this silent and peaceful little
church was built at the round watch-tower in the same place, at the
Berta their beloved dead on his knees held.

And then in the summer when I rose from the grave times to get back into the rustling trees enter,
as I looked again up at the blue window and thought, as so completely to the love and goodness
of fit Leon's mother, that in the newly built church donated the
top of the round tower, the wondrous glass sheet has, by now the sun
beam so friendly lights on the face of the sleeper conjures ....

The
Avenger

I.

About six leagues north of Genoa, in one of those narrow
valleys, which now has hurtling along on the railway viaducts bold,
was the time when this event happens, a lonely homestead of those
Fabbri, a sort of country house, but all around by people > The lock
<was called.

The Fabbri were impoverished nobles, by their large and spacious
Possessions only this unsightly house had saved hard and now in a
bear hinlebten by their poor conditions but necessary exile.

This castle is now riding on a dull late summer afternoons, a young and distinguished-looking Officer,
followed by a servant, on his horse in two puffy jacket bags the baggage of the Lord led. The
name was Riccardo Fabbri and was a twenty-six, slender man, who just returned from one of those bold Seezüge
through which Genoa had risen in those time runs to such great and deserved reputation. He had
a taken part in a naval officer, the company and by his bravery the
reputation of an able, promising Noble acquired, who had every reason
to be a reunion with his family, which had remained for two years
without news of him, herbeizusehnen, with a secret Sigh, indeed, that
his glorious father, the harassment techniques several years ago about
his poverty died, had not allowed mitgenießen happiness, his son so
handsome and full of hope return home to see whose whole desire for
his mother and sister embraced.

He was also hardly rose to the land, as he then already with all the love of his tender heart asked
to come to her lonely house, despite the celebrations and tributes to the happy Genoa's returning
sons prepared. He had bought for his two horses and Servants with them because he did not
come back without a shine to home in a pardonable impulse of vanity, and because he knew where
brilliant dreams of happiness and wealth, women permanent home her meager life. He brought
them from distant countries, in which he had fought, the most splendid silks and fabrics with all
the time and was pleased with the scene that his appearance and the admiration cause of the
treasures would have brought, so he really was angry with the sky a little that he made during
his homecoming so unfriendly and its not triumph Sun shine and light glorified. But he was too
young, but that he would thereby spoil his mood, he sang out cheerfully to himself, or rather tenderly
stroked the neck of his horse, which then turned his head and neighing joyfully him with serious
Eyes thanked him.

"You will soon be in the stable, my dear," the officer said to the horse, "grab only capable
of and give me pretty on the way out! Your horse, Beppino, he turned to the servant, "also
seems to prefer the beach to pull loads, as such a brave sailors, as you are a bear. Look at how
it can hang upside down! "

"Maybe it is me, sir," laughed the servant, not since my childhood, "I am more sat in the saddle
and my legs do not want more seamen the right thigh pressure bring to pass, I could properly be
seasick boring at this Hinundherschaukeln. Well, in an hour, we are probably in the harbor! "

He
gave his horse with the whip a slight blow to his master and tried to get closer.

So they rode on, it was almost dark, and finally, finally they saw the lonely Castle lie on
the hill.

Riccardo heart was beating, he had two or three times properly swallow, to bite the emotion,
for so weichmütig he had not kept! Then However, as the horses near the barn weathered, it went
quickly up the hill and knocked at the locked gates. And finally, after a few voices have been raised
and Riccardo old Marietta to her "Blessed Virgin, our young master,"
was recognized, They rode into the courtyard, laughing and waving
to the horses.

How much is Riccardo had in the long nights when he watch on his ship had to return home with their
excitement and joy filled in, every movement, every phrase that it
should be happy as an outbreak of maternal tenderness and sisterly
love!

For he had never seen the true, genuine love, so that his desire
only the two women was, of which he knew that only he was the content
of their thoughts.

And when he was in the family room awaiting went up and down, in which he knew every device and
now all was covered with the veils of twilight, because he really felt a bitterness against
the Darkness that it made the room so small and musty, as he is still as great and glorious
was presented. But then - finally - the mother threw open the door and with a "Riccardo, my
dear, dear Riccardo, "rushed into his arms, as any other feeling disappeared in his heart,
he just hugged again and again the trembling woman, and always sought their quivering lips.
Tears flowed from her eyes and shook her frail a cramp Shape.

There could also be feeling Riccardo bemeistern no more, he only repeated more again, the
words "Mother, dear mother," said he also ran large drops down her cheeks.

But it was after the first assault on the mother not only the outbreak of the intimate tenderness;
they did shake, but also a deeper, scavenging pain they long months in itself had overpowered
and should learn the cause of the poor Riccardo soon, so that she did because he wanted to ask
about his sister, like a big fear all the more intimate embrace and pressed themselves, as they
could because the answer to this agonizing Question put off far, far.

But finally, when he took a big trouble and he had summoned the mother, everything to him to
tell, again taken filthiest that the beloved Emilia or ill, for heaven's sake, in his absence,
had died because he heard that something worse had happened, something terrible that was incomprehensible
to him and destroyed him, and he long empty Eyes in the darkness of the room and had to stare
the future.

His Emilie, his beautiful sister dishonored seduced! He did not hear the words of his Mother, who
implored him with tears, to compose herself, for God's mercy and Christ's Emilia to pay for
the sake of this pain does not let the already punished and unhappy was: he did not know that
now Emily was standing next to him, a picture of misery and the worst Destruction, that she
was crying his heart and moaned, he just stared stunned and without
Reflection right into the void, without thought, indeed without feeling.

It seemed as if his heart would frightened in his chest still and there would be no life, no time,
no space, only darkness, limitless darkness. But then raged through a burning pain him, he
gasped for air, he stretched himself up, he reached around and fell unconscious into the arms
of his mother.

Thus was his return to his sake the hardships and troubles of recent years endure so happy and had
shown him as a beacon with a clear light the way the saddest events of his life, his hopes
destroyed, their pride bent, his happiness and jeered all the plans he had forged for the future,
destroyed, for the future, by his mother and his beloved Emilia as through magnificent palace apartments
had to walk in splendor and happiness.

And the dark night, staring into it the unfortunate without peace seemed to him only the beginning
a dark, sun-empty set of years that he should not have a job that Vengeance on the seducer
....: it maintained

II

The day, which replaced the bad night was a beautiful summer, and the sun shone from heaven when
the world is full of happiness and jubilation. Riccardo but this cursed sun showed him his unhappy sister
just destroyed him and no wrinkle in the careworn Face of his mother
saved.

A deep sorrow filled his heart as he both by the Room sneak saw in an eternal restlessness, as
they did not dare to act according to or sit at the eagerly anticipated and to cling to him.
He had already called early in the morning and ordered him to Beppino
the gorgeous fabrics and gifts to bear on the ground to his loved
ones not by the joyful garments in her dark Sorry to offend, then
he had in a few words to the servant, who is probably already heard
of the disaster had explained, that they would not stay here long
because he soon a great trip must compete.

Beppino had silently tilted his head, accustomed to obey, without
question, and thought, well what drove for a goal back in the Lord
his unfortunate stranger.

Riccardo then had a long conversation with the mother, in the course of which he sad Story was
told.

The mother had been the previous winter with Emilia in Genoa to news of her son to collect. They
had in the old aristocratic families, the two ladies with great affection Date and joy, as
the Fabbri a noble race and with several noble families were by marriage, so they let the women
for not immediately return to their loneliness, although nothing about her son had been able
to learn, and had a feast on the them a young Roman gentleman, also an officer of the squadron,
to broach a count Ermete Palma, which the gentle beauty and Emilia had delighted at her first Views
expressed his admiration had been unable to suppress. And then the women again had returned home,
he was often out riding with the young gentlemen of Genoa, and had the mother by his good manners
and Emilia by his chivalrous gaiety charmed so that she did not hide her affection. Then he came
to them alone, and in the Happy mother were awakened hopes, as it the impression of a fine and
capable officer made, which seemed full of honest love and sincere
affection.

He was a that too amiable young men, to whom life has only one value, because beautiful women
walk on earth, and Emilia had him in her virginal purity probably a worthy goal appeared to test
his Betörungskünste to her what a success it also unfortunately quite was. But so unhappy they
were now all gone by the count, the sister was in spite their misdeed, then swore her mother,
remained pure and girlish, because they like a Constraints have suffered everything, as in
a dream, which usually becomes a terrible awakening was followed, for in the spring was the
count disappeared without even a goodbye letter to leave the unhappy woman, and no longer come.
And in Genoa, where they carefully had survey can hold, no one had known where to have the
Earl Palma turned.

"I'll know where to find him already," said Riccardo had, "Count on me, mother, I will find him,
the boy! Let me just lose no time, Emilia will be avenged! "

And without his mother made the allegations or comforted his sister, he rode on next morning with
his servant back to Genoa back to follow the trail of the seducer; He had no particular feeling
about what you would start with the abuser when he first would find if he kill him or bring back
to his sister wished he had only one Thoughts, to appear before him and to look him in the eyes,
only one goal to avenge themselves. And during their silent ride, as he stared before him, the
deeper the wrinkles his eyebrows and his eyes threatened to void that flash up when he softly
the sweet word Revenge muttering to himself. Then they rode the evening in Genoa.

III.

It was not much that Riccardo heard in Genoa, he appeared to the great
joy of the young Cavaliers that evening in their midst, and soon he
seemed playful and funniest of them be they swarmed through the night
and had no idea how to destroy the mind was their good comrade, who
sat at table cheerfully and repeatedly poked with them.

In the dialogues, which he had while with the patrician sons, he learned just what a magnificent
Sidekick been Ermete Palma, was a hero in drinking, a daring swordsman and rider and been the darling
of the women who missed entirely in its exuberant youth were. Yes, they were almost at Riccardo's
sister became jealous because he always this as a praised pattern of beauty and loveliness
and have truly been in love she was. But no one could tell him, decide where the young Roman
had turned. Some wanted to know that while he locks on one of his father, however, claimed the
others, that he had been suddenly called away to attend on a Roman ship in a war context.

In Riccardo was very frightened, because he was afraid to miss, so
the object of his revenge; but he hoped that the other message is
the right of his comrades, and even rode The next morning, and to
Rome, to the astonishment and anger of the young Genoese, which his
presence had promised a series of happy celebrations.

On the long rides Riccardo hardly spoke a word, but his eyes were open when they finally Rome
saw her feet spread, his cheeks reddened, as if a large Victory had been won, as if nothing
could now hinder his revenge.

The family of the Earl Palma at that time was one of the best in the Roman aristocracy, the
immense wealth of art with great love and a generous pleasure, life is beautiful spending,
combined. The Palma inhabited a large and magnificent palace in the city; all the sights of foreign
countries, which were just then brought home by sailors, all the treasures of ancient and modern
art were gathered together in this noble palace built plane dimensions, wrong in which all eminent
men like Rome and in a truly festive way; because the old count Palma
was a true aristocrat, in his younger years, even had acquired a certain
fame as a poet, with poems, of course, the more a well-formed Spirit
as a veritable artistry testified.

 Hence there was no crowding and no displacing
of the old travellers, but it was clear that there were now two parties following the candidate,
since the old and the new did not coalesce. The members of the committee showed at once that
they knew themselves to be the mainstay of the country, while the others were merely frivolous
and unstable politicians.

Sylvia, of course, was eager to know what they had said and how they bore themselves, and Harley
was anxious to gratify her.

"They said they were very great men, and they bore themselves accordingly."

"Uncle James is a greater man than all of them put together."

"I foresee trouble," said Hobart, joyfully, to Harley a little later. "I can feel it in the
air around me, I breathe it, I can even see it."

"Hobart," said Harley, pityingly, "you only obey your instincts."

"Wherein I am a wise man," replied Hobart, with satisfaction. "I am out here to get news, and
the livelier the news the better. Now I think that these gentlemen will soon furnish us something
worth writing about."

"I am afraid so," said Harley, despondently.

The committee was in no haste to speak. Its members dined luxuriously in their private car,
and invited to join them those whom they thought worthy of the honor--only a very few besides
the ladies. Among these was Harley; but it was Jimmy Grayson who took him.

The conversation was exclusively commercial and financial. Mr. Goodnight, Mr. Crayon, and their
associates were well aware that the whole science of government pertained to the development
of trade, and it was the business of a people, as well as of a man, to stick to the main point.
It was for this reason, too, that Mr. Crayon incidentally let it be understood that he did
not value a college education. He had several university graduates working for him on small
salaries, while he had never been inside the walls of a university, and that was the beginning
and end of the matter; there could be no further discussion.

"I understand you are connected with the press," he said to Harley, who sat in the next chair.
"I should think there was not much in that; but still, with careful, diligent man, it might
serve as opening into financial circles. You must come in contact with men of importance. I
know a man, originally a writer for press, who has risen to be a bank cashier. Worthy fellow."

"I am sure that he must be," said Harley, and Mr. Crayon's opinion of him rose.

The atmosphere of which Hobart spoke with such emphasis did not permeate the special car. There
was no sign of trouble around the bountiful dining-table. The committee had its own way and
did all the talking, leaving Mr. Grayson, Mr. Heathcote, and the others in silence. Hence there
was no chance of a disagreement, and, as Harley judged, Mr. Goodnight and Mr. Crayon were assured
that this pleasant state of affairs would continue.

Mr. Crayon, who was pleased with his neighbor, again gave Mr. Harley enlightenment. He asked
him about the country through which they were passing, and was kind enough to consider his
information of some weight. But he permitted Harley to furnish only the premises; it was reserved
for himself to draw the conclusions; he predicted with absolute certainty the future of this
region and the amount of revenue it would yield through its threefold interests--agricultural,
pastoral, and mineral. He added that only the trained mind could make these accurate estimates.

"Well, what happened?" asked Hobart, when Harley returned to his own car.

"Nothing."

"Nothing? Maybe so, but it won't remain nothing long. You just wait and see."

Sylvia, to whom these men were, of course, polite, summed them up very accurately in a remark
that she made to Harley.

"It is impossible to teach them anything," she said, "because they know everything already."

An hour later the candidate spoke at a small station to a large audience composed of people
typical of the region--miners, farmers, and cowboys, variously attired, but all quiet and peaceful.
There was not a sign of disorder, there was nothing even remotely resembling the toughs of
the great Eastern cities. This seemed to be a surprise to the members of the committee, who
sat in a formidable semicircle on the stage behind the candidate. But as the surprise wore
away a touch of disdain appeared in their manner; they seemed to doubt whether the region and
its people were of any importance.

To Harley the speech of the morning was of particular interest, and he watched Jimmy Grayson
with the closest attention. He wanted to see whether he would venture upon the treacherous
ocean of the tariff, and he had been unable to draw from his manner any idea of his intention.
But Jimmy Grayson did not launch his bark upon those stormy waters. He handled many issues,
and never did he allow any one in the audience to doubt his meaning; it was a plain yea or
nay, and he drew applause from the audience or a disapproving silence, according to its feelings.

But the committee was satisfied, the faces of the members shone with pleasure, and Harley,
reading their minds, saw how they told themselves of the quick effect their presence had upon
Jimmy Grayson. It was well for men of weight to surround a Presidential candidate; despite
himself, with strong, grave faces beside him he would put a prudent restraint upon his words.
The long trip from the East and the temporary sacrifice of important interests was proving
to be worth the price. When the speech was over, they congratulated him upon his caution and
wisdom.

But that afternoon they were caught under a deluge of Eastern newspapers, and in them all the
tariff discussion loomed formidably. There was every indication, too, that this big storm-cloud
was moving westward; already it was hovering over the Missouri River Valley, because the newspapers
of Kansas City and Omaha, like those of Chicago and New York, fairly darkened with it.

And the telegrams, too, continued to fall on Jimmy Grayson thick and fast. They came in yellow
showers; all the correspondents received orders to get long interviews with him upon the subject,
if possible, and the leaders in every part of the country were telegraphing to do this and
to do that, or not to do either. It was evident that a great population wanted to know just
how Jimmy Grayson stood on the tariff.

The members of the committee took alarm; Harley saw them bustling in uneasily to Jimmy Grayson,
and whispering to him much and often.

"It's begun! It's begun! The war is on!" said Hobart, gleefully. "I hear the dropping bullets
of the skirmishers!"

"Hobart, you'd exult over an earthquake!" exclaimed Harley, wrathfully.

But he knew Hobart's words to be true, and presently he drifted back to Jimmy Grayson.

"Mr. Harley is my intimate personal friend," said the candidate to some of the members of the
committee who looked askance at the correspondent; "and what you say before me you can say
before him. He knows what to print and what not to print."

"It is this," said Mr. Goodnight, and Mr. Crayon nodded violently in affirmation; "all the
news shows that this tariff agitation is growing fast. But it is only a trick of the enemy
to force an expression from us. They are united in favor of the tariff and we are not. There
is a division within our ranks. Many of us, and I may say it is the more solid and conservative
wing of the party, the men who really understand the world, know that it is not wise to meddle
with the question. Leave well enough alone. We are interested in this ourselves, and, as you
know, we furnish the sinews of war."

He stopped and coughed significantly, and Mr. Crayon also coughed significantly. The remaining
members of the committee did likewise. Jimmy Grayson looked thoughtful.

"Gentlemen," he said, "I confess to you that my mind has been upon this subject for several
days past."

"But you will listen to advice," said Mr. Goodnight, hastily.

"Certainly! Certainly!" said Jimmy Grayson. "But you see the time is coming when I must decide
upon some course in regard to it. I appreciate the self-sacrifice of you gentlemen in leaving
your business interests to come so far, and I shall be glad if we can co-operate. We reach
Philipsburg to-night; I make a speech there, but it will be over early. Suppose we have our
talk immediately afterwards."

The committee at once accepted the offer and expressed satisfaction. Mr. Grayson showed every
sign of tractability, and they began to feel again that their valuable time had not been expended
in vain.

Harley told Sylvia that the affair was now bound to come to a head very soon, but she repeated
her confidence in her uncle.

Hobart, however, was gloomy; his joy of the morning seemed to have passed quickly.

"I don't like it," he remarked to Harley. "Jimmy Grayson seems to have followed the lead of
these men without once saying: 'I am the nominee and it is for me to say.'"

"And why not? Every dictate of prudence requires that he should. What is the use of taking
up such a troublesome question at this late day of the campaign?"

"But there will be no fight!" This was said very plaintively.

Harley smiled.

"I sincerely hope we will escape one," he said.

Mr. Grayson, after the brief talk, retired to his state-room, and for a long time did not see
anybody. Harley knew that he was thinking deeply, and when the time came for the next speech
at another way-station, he followed close behind and was keenly watchful.

Again the members of the committee arranged themselves on the stage in a formidable semicircle
behind the speaker, and surveyed the audience with an air that bore a tinge of weary disdain.
They were in one of the most barren parts of the country, a section that could never be developed
into anything great, and Mr. Crayon looked upon a speech there as a sheer waste of time.

The candidate spoke upon many important issues, and then he began to skirmish gingerly around
the edge of one that hitherto had been permitted to slumber quietly. He did not show any wish
to make a direct attack, just a desire to worry and tease, as it were, a disposition to fire
a few shots, more for the sake of creating an alarm than to do damage.

The committee at once felt apprehension. This was forbidden ground. The candidate was growing
entirely too frivolous; he should be reminded of his duty to the country and to great business
interests. Yet they could do nothing at the moment; Mr. Grayson was speaking, and it was impossible
to interrupt him. How should I go to the captain! " Tired
and sat down again, the heater and put his face in his hands.

"A better advice I can not give it," said, Charles. And he found in general that he'd rather
have his trunk to pick, held here to give advice, but only for the were considered stupid. When
his father had given the boot for good, he jokingly asked, "How long you will have it" and
now was this expensive case that already? lost in earnest. The only consolation was that the
father of its current difficult situation could learn, even if he should investigate. Except
that he came along to New York, was the shipping company could just say. Sorry but Karl did,
the things that he in the case still had hardly used, but would he have needed such as long,
go to the shirt. Since then he had saved money in the incorrect place, now that he is just at
the Beginning of his career would have needed to occur purely dressed, he would in the dirty
Shirts must appear. Otherwise, the loss of the case would not even have been so bad, because
the Suit he wore, was even better than that in the case, which actually only a Notanzug was that
the mother had even just before the departure to mend. Now he remembered also that in the case
was a piece of salami still Verona, which he wrapped up the mother as an extra gift had, of which he
had only the smallest part can eat because it while driving have been entirely without appetite
and the soup that came in the steerage for distribution, it abundantly had enough. Now he would have
liked to have but the sausage in hand for the heater to . Venerate For such people are easily
obtained if you slipped them some trifle, Karl knew that even her by his father, who by all cigar
distribution, the lower Employees won, that he had to do business. Now Karl had to Verschenkbarem
only his money, and that he wanted when he should perhaps have already lost the case, provisionally
not touch. Again his thoughts back to the trunk, and he could now really not see why he had guarded
the luggage while driving so carefully, that had almost cost him the guard to sleep, if he so
easily now that same suitcase had to have it taken away. He recalled the five nights, during
which he a little Slovaks, the two beds was located on the left of him incessantly, had suspected
was that he had it in for his suitcase. This Slovak had only been lurking out that Charles finally,
overcome by weakness, fall asleep for a moment, that he the case go over, with a long pole
with which he always played during the day or exercised, to be could. By day this Slovak saw
enough from innocent, but hardly was the night came, lifted he from time to time from his bed
and looked sad to Karl's case across. Karl was this clear evidence, as more and had now and then someone
with the restlessness of the immigrant a little light lit, but this was prohibited by order of
the ship, and tried to decipher incomprehensible leaflets of emigration agencies. Was such a light
in nearby, Karl could reduce a little, but it was in the distance, or was dark, then he must keep
his eyes open. This effort had exhausted him well, and now was they have been for nothing, perhaps.
The butter tree, even if he should meet somewhere!

At that moment rang out in the distant past into the perfect tranquility small, short strokes,
such as children's feet, they came closer with enhanced sound and
now it was it is a peaceful march of men.

They were apparently, as in the narrow passage, of course, was, in a row, you could hear clanking
as weapons. Charles, who was already near it, in bed to stretch out from all the worry box and
Slovaks liberated sleep startled and pushed to the heater to draw attention to him at last, for
the train seemed have reached its peak just at the door. "This is the ship's band," said the Heater
", which have played up and pack up to go. Now everything is ready and we can go. Come on! "He
seized her hand, Karl, took another at the last moment framed picture of Our Lady of the wall above
the bed, stuffed it into his breast pocket, grabbed his bag and hurriedly left the cabin with
Karl.

"Now I go to the office and the men will speak my mind. There is no passenger longer there,
you have no consideration. "

This varied and repeated the heater was walking with lateral thrusting of the foot tread down
a path crossing rat, pushed but they just quickly into the hole that they had reached in time.
He was generally slow in his movements, for if he had long legs, they were still too heavy.

They passed through a section of the kitchen, where some girls in dirty aprons - they poured they
intentionally - cleaned dishes in large vats.

The fireman said a certain line to himself, put his arm around her waist and led her to constantly
be flirtatious with his arm pressed with a piece. "There are now paid, you want to come along,"
he said. "Why I should keen! me, bring me the money from dear, "she replied, slipped under his
Arm through and ran away. "Where did you dig him up the beautiful boy," she called out, but would
not answer. You could hear the laughter of all the girls who interrupted their work had.

They went further, however, and came to a door that had a small Vorgiebel above, by small, gilded
caryatids was taken.

Shopping for a boat that looked very wasteful from. Karl, as he noted, never came to this area,
probably during driving the passengers of the first and second class had been reserved, while had dug out
now before the great ship cleaning the separation doors. They were actually already met some
men who wore brush on the shoulder and had greeted the heater. Karl was amazed at the large
holding in his steerage of which of course he had little . Learn Along the corridors are also subjected
to electric wires, cables and a small bell was heard constantly.

The fireman knocked respectfully at the door and called, as they come "cried Charles with a gesture
to, without fear to enter.

He was also, however, remained at the door. Before the three windows of the room he saw the
waves of the sea, and considering their cheerful Movement of his heart beat as if he had not seen
for five long days the sea continuously. Large ships crossed each other's way and gave the waves only
to the extent as allowed their severity. If you made the eyes small, these vessels seemed sheer Heavy
rolling. On their masts wore thin, but long flags through the journey have been streamlined,
but still down-and heart-Appelt. Probably of warships her gun salute rang out, the gun barrels
of such a not too far gone moving Ship, were radiant with the reflex of its steel casing, as
pampered from the safe, smooth, but not horizontally ride. The small boats and boats could be, at least
from the door, observed only in the distance, as in amounts in the openings between the poured
in large vessels. It is nothing but stand New York and saw Charles with the hundred thousand Windows
of his skyscraper. Yes, in this room, you knew where you were.

At a round table sat three gentlemen, one a ship's officer in blue uniform ship, the two others, officials
of the Port Authority in black American uniforms.

On the Table were, piled high, various documents, which the officer first with the Pen in hand,
flew over to them to reach the other two who read soon, soon excerpted, now lodged in their
briefcases, if not exactly the one that almost continuously a little noise with his teeth fully
led his colleagues dictating something to a log.

At the window sat at a desk, his back turned toward the door, a small
gentleman who was busy with large tome, based on a strong shelf at
head height in front of him together were ranked.

Beside him stood an open, empty, at least at first sight spot.

The second window was empty and had the best view. stood near the
third, halblautem two men in conversation.

One leaned next to the window, also wore the uniform of ship and played with the hilt of his
sword. The person with whom he said was turned toward the window and revealed here and there by moving
a portion of the order number on the chest of the other. He was in civilian clothes and had a
thin bamboo stick, which, as he both hands on the hips noted also as a sword distance.

Karl did not have much time to see everything, for soon became a servant
to her and asked the heater with a look as it does not belong here,
what he wanted.

The fireman replied, so quiet when asked, he would speak with the Lord chief cashier. The servant
refused off for his part with a gesture that request, but went on tiptoe, the round table on a large
sheet evasive to the Lord with the tome. This gentleman - you could see clearly - almost froze
at the words of the servant returned, but at last according to the man, who wished to speak
to him, and waved then, strictly defensive, against the heater and for safety, even against
the servant. The servant went out to Heater back and said in a tone as he trusted him of something:
"Scissors is immediately out of the room! "

The fireman looked down to this answer to Karl, as this was his heart, he silently his lamentations.
Without further reflection is freed Karl, ran across the room, that
he even slightly to the chair of the officer touched the servant ran
to embrace with bent prepare arms as he chasing a pest, but Charles
was the first at the table of the chief cashier, where he was holding,
in the event that the servant should try him move away.

Of course, like the whole room came alive. The ship's officer at the table jumped up, the gentlemen
of the Port Authority saw quiet but carefully, the two men at the window were entered next to each
other, the servant, who thought he was there, where even the high
Men showed interest, not out of place, resigned.

The heater at the door waiting tense at the moment, until his help was needed. The chief purser was
finally in his armchair, a large right turn.

Karl rummaged in his secret pocket, which he shows to the eyes of these people have no concerns
had produced his passport, which he laid open instead of further idea on the table. The chief
cashier seemed to hold the passport as secondary, as he flicked it
with two Fingers aside, what Karl is, as this formality completed
to the satisfaction of the pass again pocketed.

"I allow myself to say," he began, "that I believe the Lord heater wrong done so. There is a certain
Schubal which it sits. He has already many ships, which he can give you all served in full
satisfaction, is hard-working, it means well with his work, and it
is not really clear why he just on this ship, but where is the service
is not so overly difficult, such as sailors on trade, should correspond
to bad.

It can therefore only be slander him in his progress hindrance and it brings to the acknowledgment
that it would not otherwise be missing for sure. I have only the general said about the matter,
its specific symptoms, he will itself. say, "Karl had turned this speech to all men, because
yes indeed all listened and it seemed more likely that among all together is just, were there,
as if that justice be just the chief cashier. From cunning had also Karl denied that he knew the heater only
a short time. Otherwise he could have been much better to speak when he is not led astray by the
red face of the Lord with bamboo sticks would have been that he saw from its present location
for the first time.

"It's all word for word is correct," said the fireman, asked him before anyone else, even before had
been executed, nor even to see him. This hasty nature of the heater would be a great Errors have been
if not the Lord with the medals, which, as it lit up now Karl, at least The captain was obviously
would have agreed with him already, listening to the heater. He stretched namely the hand and shouted
to the fireman: "Come here," with one voice, firm, with about to
strike a hammer.

Now everything depended on the behavior from the heater, because what the Justice of his cause
arrived at the no doubt Karl.

Fortunately, on this occasion was that the heater a lot in the world had been around. Exemplary calmly
he took from his suitcase with a handle to the first Bundle of papers and a notebook, went so
as to understand the saying under complete neglect of the chief purser, the captain, and spread
on the sill his evidence from. The chief cashier was nothing for
it but hinzubemühn themselves.

"The Man is a known troublemaker, "he said in explanation," he's more in cash than in the
Engine room. He has Schubal, this quiet man, quite to despair. Listen Once, "he turned to
the fireman," You push your importunity yet been really too far. How many times were you kicked
out already in the payment space, as you would with Earn your whole, complete and without exception
unjustified claims! How often are You come from there went to the main ticket office! How many
times have you told you in the good that Schubal is your immediate superior, with only yourself
to see as his subordinate have! And now you come forth even more if the Lord is ashamed as captain,
is not even harass him, but entblöden not even as a learned vocal leader, bring your absurd accusations
these little ones that I ever, for the first to see the ship! "

Karl talked to force back skip forward. But already the captain was there, which said, "we hear
the man but once. The Schubal me anyway is a lot of time to independently, so I will have nothing to
say in your favor. "The latter was the Heater, it was only natural that he could not immediately
use for him, but all appeared on the right track. The heater began his comments and overcame
the same at the beginning, when he dubbed the Schubal with "Lord". Karl was delighted at how deserted
Desk of the chief cashier, where he held a letter Wage always oppressed
with pleasure. - Mr Schubal is unfair!

Mr. Schubal preferred the foreigners! Mr. Schubal referred the Heater from the engine room and
had him clean the toilets, which surely is not the heater Thing was! - Once even the efficiency
of the Lord Schubal was in dispute, the more apparent should be as really there. Karl stared
at this point with all the force of the master to, emulate, as he was his colleague, only that
he is the somewhat clumsy expression the heater will not let influence its detriment. After
all, it was learned from the many Not really talk, and although the captain still looked right
in the eyes determination, the heater time to listen to an end, but the others were Men's impatient,
and the voice of the heater reigned soon no longer absolute in the Space, which many had feared.
The first of the Lord was in his civil bamboo sticks into action and beat, albeit quietly, on
the floor. The other men saw course here and there out of the masters of the port authority, who were
apparently attacked hurry, again to the file and began, though still somewhat absent-minded, they
look through the ship's officer moved closer to his table again, and the chief cashier to have the match
won believed sighed deeply on out of irony.
 "I am not sending a word to my own paper.
I am going straight to my bed."

"If you say so, Harley, I believe you," said Churchill. "Besides, it's past one o'clock now,
and that's past four o'clock in New York and past three in Chicago; all the papers have gone
to press, and we couldn't send anything if we wanted to do so."

"There is nothing to tell you," said Harley, "except that Mr. Grayson will allude to the tariff
in his speech to-morrow, or, rather, this morning, at Waterville. He has promised the committee
not to do so again--they were not very willing to grant him even so little--but it is a sort
of sop to Cerberus; later on, if any one twits him with avoiding the revision, he can say,
and say truthfully, that he has spoken on it."

"I see," said Churchill.

And before they could ask him anything more Harley had entered his own room and was going to bed.

The morning dawned badly. The sun shone dimly through a mass of dirty brown clouds, and the
mountains were hidden in mist. A slow and provoking cold rain was falling. It was also a start
at the first daylight, and, forced to rise too early from their beds, all were in a bad humor.
Even Sylvia was hid in a heavy cloak, and she did not smile. Harley had told her that he could
make nothing of the conference the night before.

They reached Waterville an hour later, and they found it even smaller and bleaker than they
expected. Although the usual body of citizens was on hand to meet them at the train, the attendance
was less than at any point hitherto. The shed under which Jimmy Grayson was to speak would
easily hold them.

But the members of the committee, when they came from their private car, showed satisfaction.
They had enjoyed a good breakfast, their chef, as Harley could testify, was one of the best,
and they were not averse to hearing the candidate make his record good. Hence they were all
comfortably arranged on the platform in their usual solid semicircle when Mr. Grayson appeared.
The candidate himself was a bit later than usual, but he gave them a cheerful good-morning
when he appeared, and then proceeded at once to the matter of the speech.

The audience, though small, greeted Mr. Grayson with the heartiest applause, and he soon had
them under his spell. He talked a while on the customary issues, and then he said:

"Gentlemen, there is one question which seemed in previous campaigns to be of paramount importance,
but in this it has been suffered a long time to rest. Lately, however, it has been rising into
prominence again. In the great centres of population to the eastward it has become a question
first in the minds of the people, and before the campaign closes it is bound to become as momentous
here."

Harley, in a seat at the corner of the stage, glanced at the committee, and he noticed a slight
shade of disapproval on all their faces. 

Over There The little house across the creek had a very different character. Since it looked down
before the small staircase so clean and tidy look as is the ground a very different than over
there. The steps always looked as if they were just scrubbed. And in the gallery were three beautiful
Nelkenstoecke and fragrant all summer long into the window. One of the small, bright windows
open, and let the beautiful, sunny mountain air start. There was usually sit an even strong-looking
woman To see with beautiful white hair that she brushed back very neatly under the black cap
had. They habitually patched on a Maennerhemd of coarse, strong cloth, which always washing was clean. The
woman herself did in her simple dress as neat and clean out, as if never been unclean at them.
It was Vizenze wife, mother the young herdsmen, the merry Franz Anton with strong arms. He made
the summer over the top Sennhuette its cheese, and only in late fall, he returned to his mother
down to spend the winter with her. Because then he chipped in at the bottom Sennhuette, that was
quite close. Since about the raging flood Bach is no base, were the two Little house completely
separated. And Mrs. Vizenze knew people who lived much further away, better, as these neighbors
over the stream to which they hinueberschaute only about once a day in silence. Usually she
shook her head in a dire way, if the black faces and dirty rags over there on the children saw.
She looked over but not often, because not liked the sight of her. Rather they looked when the
Feierabendstuendchen came their red carnations on the gallery and looked down over the green, sunny
slope, the front of their house to the valley descended.

The feral children heard over the creek the Haelmli-Joe, as he was called, the his work outside
the home or the woodcutter tried haymaking.

He also was also charged up the hill. He was mostly in the valley or on the trails in the area.
The Woman had to do enough at home. But they seemed to think so many young children can you do
not keep in order, and later it would be of even better. So she left everything , How did
it go. And in the beautiful, pure air, they were all alive and well and let's be on the grass
around the ground and sliding crawling, be well. In summer time were the four major outside all
day to tend the cows. For as it is not to like on the high pastures where the herd grazes together
and only one or two Shepherds guarded. The people from the mountainside sent their cows on the
surrounding pastures out and they had to leave hat. This is always a fun time for the boys
and girls, to go there at any time of day together and all sorts of things with one another Merry
. Enterprises Sometimes the children were also lower down in the potato harvest, or they did other
light work in the fields. They deserved it all Summer about their living and even brought some Geldstueck
home, the mother could do well. She had still to feed on the four little ones and for all
eight to gather the clothes. If this were so simple and yet, one had to make them little but
each of the four majors and have a piece of it. A cow had also Haelmli-Sepp not, as almost all
the farmers owned about him one if it ever so little land to had.

Haelmli-Sepp said the man because the stalks were on his property is not thick enough to get
a cow. He only had a goat and a piece of potato country, so that had to the woman with the four
kids get along over the summer and here and there, one of the Bigger meals when no work was outside.
The father was probably in the winter then and when at home, but
he brought with him little, for his little house and farm were so
in debt, that he had anything the whole year to pay off.

Once again, he kept only a little reward could one came, he was indebted to him and took away as
much as he was.

So the woman had with the children often go hungry. She could not maintain order in the house,
and the work it was never really out of hand. She could also sometimes a good while stop on the
dilapidated, small gallery. Instead of working, she looked over the river to the pretty little house
across the milkmaid, the slices glistened in the sun.

Then she said angrily to himself: "Yes, there is already clean and keep everything clean, that has
nothing else to do, but one of us. "Then she went back to the annoying dull, bleak back room, and
the one who came first in her way, she let out the anger.

This was now mostly a boy of ten or eleven years, which was not her own, but since his birth in
the little house of Haelmli Sepp-lived. This little fellow, from everyone just 'the stupid This'
called looked so gaunt and needy that he was for little held eight
year old would have.

He looked so shy and timid moreover, that no one knew how This actually looked like, because
he always looked scary on the ground when one spoke to him. This had never known a mother.
She had died when he barely two Years old. His father was not much later, over the rocks crashed
into the depths, when he came down from Heuholen in the mountains and wanted to shorten the path.
Since the fall He was paralyzed and could do nothing more than to weave together small mats,
which he in the great Inn on the top-selling Seelisberg. The small This had never seen his
father differently Sitting on a stool as a straw mat on his knees. All the people he had the
lame Matthis called.

For six years he was dead, and because in the little house by a small chamber Haelmli-Sepp had rented
with his little boy as Schlafstaette, this was after his father's death the same at the same place.
The little money that was paid for the little This from the community,
was the wife of Haelmli-Sepp very welcome here.

And in the chamber, they could now have two put their boys for the long almost no place to sleep
was gone. The This was small by nature a shy and quiet little boy. His Father who lost his first
wife, then had the great misfortune had was all courage passed. And he spake before his little
accident, he now said almost nothing.

There sat the little This whole days beside his father, without hearing a word, and so He also
learned to say no long. When he had lost his father and now to all the family of Haelmli-Sepp belonged,
as he spoke hardly at all anymore, because he was each approached
and pushed back and forth, because he never fought.

To all the blows that he had to endure from the children, they released the evil words of the
woman, if they Over There was anger about the neat little house of the milkmaid. The This resisted
but never for he had the feeling that the whole world is against him, and yet use nothing.
After and after the boy was so shy and timid that it was believed that he does not know what
to was going on around him. And mostly he gave no answer when you called him. He saw at all always
look as if searching for a hole where he could crawl into the earth, that it no longer find it.

It was concluded that the big four of Haelmli-Sepp, the Jopp, Hans, the Ulli and Lisi said many
times that had to him: "You are a stupid This", and that the nachsagten four small ones, as soon
as they could only talk.

This however, never since the resisted, so had assumed, and eventually all people, it would
probably be so, and he was far and wide, only 'the stupid This' called. It was as if the do not
work This could, like the others did it. Should he help to herd the cows, and he was with all
the other boys together, he looked like a hedge or a bush to get behind to hide. Since he
usually sat trembling with fear, for he could hear, like the other Boys examined it with great clamor
that he went on at the games, wanted to play.

These games always ended up with a lot of beatings, and met regularly at the This strongest, since
it is not defended and could not defend against much stronger.

So he crept as soon as he could, and now ran his cows, where they were going and ate in the
pasture of the neighbors. The anger out there was great, and everyone found the This was too
stupid to look after the cows only, and no one put him in more. It was the same in the work
in the field if the boys should go on for weeding the potato fields. As they threw themselves
by preference, the tubers of Kartoffelblueten to the head, so that the already Time goes by
faster. And each gave the other plenty of back what he received had. This was nothing but the
back, but shy and timid, he looked in all Pages, from where he would be taken. This was just
what the other wanted you. And so served him with much laughter from all sides of the tubers
in the back and head.

While the others had but time to work in between, the only ever tried
This dodge and hide behind the potato plants.

So it was with this No work, and young and old were in agreement, the This is to all work too
stupid and from the This can never become something. Because he now deserve nothing, and indeed
never was, he was treated well by the wife of Haelmli-Sepp accordingly. If even eat their
own four small children had barely enough, it was most likely for This uebrigblieb the nothing
and then it was said, "You will find something well, you're large enough. "Like This was actually
nourished, knew no one, including the wife of Haelmli-Sepp , but somehow he always lived.

The small, skinny boys were already here and there a good woman a scrap of bread or a Potato, when he
passed peacefully to her door.

This was the begging not. Full he had eaten in his life before. But he was not as terrible as
the persecution and laugh at the boys, in which he was always shy and always more hidden.

2. Chapter

When Schwemmebachsennhuette

danced on a lovely summer evening than
in the blue and sunny air all mosquitoes met located on the hillside
and all Guardian boy - girl.

They had now to negotiate special have.

The Jopp, of all the greatest, was the leader of the Assembly. And as all now were together in
one place, he indicated that now Schwemmebachsennhuette to go up, because today was the Kaesfischtag.
Now, however, must be identified above all who stay there and beware the cows, while the other
would go to the banquet. The was now a difficult question, because no one had a mind to sacrifice himself
for the other and to stay. As the wily Uli had the idea, one could even the stupid This To force
the cows to give eight. And lest he forget, it would be possible to advance a little durchpruegeln.
The proposal was well received, and you wanted more of the leaders This pick of the flock, as the intervening
Lisi cried in a loud voice: "That's nothing Clever, what Uli invented. So we all just get the
reward, if we again and come back the cows were lost. You will not yet believe that the This may,
if he is too stupid to herd two cows hats, suddenly twenty. You have to loose, and have to stay for
three at the cows, otherwise it is nothing. "declaration made Lisi Impression that the new Council
was adopted. Three of the band were chosen by lot to stay there convicted, of all the Uli was among
these three. Grumbling and growling, he returned to the winning the crowd back and sat on
the floor beside his two companions in misfortune. With loud screaming and shouting then crashed
the whole group of children up the mountain, the incomparable Benefit contrary.

The Kaesfischtag was always displayed by Franz Anton the boy, it never failed, to remind him
if he should forget about. Because that was the main hard for them. That was the day on which the
Franz Anton curtailed its fresh cheese around, after this been pressed as a soft mass in the round, wooden
form was.

What now between the compressive Weight and the solid form herausdraengte out from the crowd,
was cut off and was to look like a long, snow-white sausage. Which was then broken into many pieces
and the friendly Sennen distributed among the children. These were the so called Kaesfische.
This festival was repeated every two weeks over the summer and was always a loud Acclamations welcomed.

This
was behind the large thistle bush on the ground in hiding, while the negotiation was going
on. He made no sound and remained motionless in the same position until He heard that the great
crowd ran away. Now he peeped cautiously out a little. The three rumbling who remained sat on the
floor and turned her back on him. The others were already well up the pasture came shouting and
cheering echoed funny from the height down.

This covered the an irresistible desire to also participate in the Kaesfischfahrt. Very nimble, he slipped
out from behind the bush, and quietly and light as a weasel, he glided past behind the three
malcontents and up the hill. After the last steep hill was a small, shiny green plateau, as
was the Sennhuette. And a few steps away from the clear flood swept down stream. There in the
door his cabin of Franz Anton stood with his round, friendly face. He laughed about the many
jumps, now the boys and girls in their zeal to the longed-for pleasure to go, made on all sides.
Now they were all in the cabin and a obtruded the other forward, to be even closer this, if the
division would begin.

"Just tame, only tame," laughed the now Franz Anton. "If you hineindraengt all in the cabin,
I have no room for cutting cheese and you did the damage. "Now he took his fixed knife to hand
and went up to the large round cheese which he already on the little table was set deal. The
cutting was rapid. Then he came up with the long, thick, snow-white line approach. Now he told
her and gave here a piece of and as a piece, often over the heads
of the Great away the little ones, do not penetrate to him could.

Because of Franz Anton was just in his division.

This had been standing at the back, and if he wanted to penetrate a little so he got there a
Shock, where one and flew so from side to side. Franz Anton also saw him not at all, because
always a size and thickness crowded in front of him. Finally, I he such a tremendous kick
from wide on all sides beating Jopp, that he would have to beat almost over. The division also saw
was nearly over, and the This probably that he could arrive at any
little piece Kaesfisch, he wanted to but no blows more.

He walked a few steps further down, where the young fir trees stood and sat on the ground between
the trees.
 I cannot consent to
such a thing! You must stay with us to the end!"

Churchill felt that his shot had missed again, but he said:

"I spoke out of consideration. I thought that my continued presence here might have a somewhat
disconcerting effect upon you."

"Not at all! Not at all!" replied the candidate, courageously. "It's a blow, but we prefer
to bear it rather than lose you. Ah, here is my niece, Sylvia; perhaps she can persuade you.
Sylvia, Mr. Churchill speaks of leaving us; he thinks that he ought to do so because he is
a critic of us. Sylvia, I leave him in your hands, and I want you to persuade him that it is
only his exaggerated sense of honor."

Sylvia was not averse to the task. She was wholly feminine, and hence there was in her a trace
of cajolery which she now used. She told Churchill that her uncle and all his friends felt
the truth and edge of his criticisms, but they felt, too, that although he was in the opposition
now, they might, nevertheless, profit by them. And there was the influence of his personal
presence on the train--his gravity of manner and his weighed and measured speech were a useful
antidote to the flippancy and levity of his associates.

Sylvia said these things rather by indirection than by plain words, and under the influence
of such soothing speech Churchill gradually melted and became forgiving; he would stay, but
it was partly for the sake of Miss Morgan that he stayed, and later in the day he confided
to Mr. Heathcote that he was surprised at the way Sylvia was coming out; she really had strong
and attractive qualities; if she were to marry a man of refinement and knowledge of the world
who would exercise a stimulating and also a corrective influence upon her, she might become
a very fine woman. Mr. Heathcote bowed assent, but looked away from Churchill and out of the
window. Churchill's opinion of Mr. Heathcote also improved.

There was yet one element in the situation that was not clarified. Mr. Plummer not only failed
to appear upon the scene, but did not communicate in any manner with either the Graysons or
Sylvia. They heard of him as floating about the Northwest and full of hot talk, but no one
could put his hand upon him, and they were puzzled, because they had expected decisive, straight-from-the-shoulder
action from the "King."

In this week Harley saw Sylvia almost every hour in the day, but never once did he speak of
the subject that was nearest both their hearts. Sometimes he thought that it would have been
better had the Graysons granted her request to go, because he could see that she was suffering
from a constant nervous strain, and that her gayety with the group was often forced.

They came at last to Grafton, a village in the corner of North Dakota, where a sweep of low
mountains opens out for a space and forms a wide valley. In that hollow lies Grafton, and to
Harley it looked warm and inviting. The candidate was to speak here, and as Harley ascertained
in advance that Mr. Grayson did not intend to say anything new, merely repeating a speech of
the day before, he did not consider it necessary to be present; instead, he chose to take a
walk through the town and its outskirts for the sake of fresh air, exercise, and some solitary
musing.

The autumn was far advanced in that Northern latitude, but the chill of winter had not yet
come. The wide sky of glittering blue hung high, and in the thin air the mountain-peaks that
stood far away came near; the wooden houses of the new town were gilded and softened by the
yellow sunshine.

Harley saw the usual audience--the ranchmen, the sheep-herders, the miners, and the railroad-men--all
flocking towards the stand where the candidate would speak, and exchanging jocose or admiring
comment, because this was to them both a holiday and a ceremony.

Only a minute or two sufficed to carry him to the outskirts of the little town, and he would
have paid no further attention to the crowd, but he thought he saw on its fringe a broad, powerful
back that he knew. When he undertook to take the second look and make sure the back was gone,
and Harley went on, telling himself, as one is apt to do, that it was only his fancy. The echo
of cheering came to his ears, and he knew that the candidate, as usual, held the audience in
his grasp. Presently the echo died, and those that followed it did not come to him, as he had
left the town behind; although from the low crest of a swell he could see the heads of the
people surrounding Jimmy Grayson, and by the way they bobbed back and forth he knew that the
enthusiasm was boiling.

He went down the far side of the swell, passed a clump of bushes, and came face to face with
Sylvia Morgan. She, too, leaving the speech, had been walking, and the color of her face was
deepened by the exercise and the crisp, bracing air. It had given her, also, an obvious exhilaration,
probably physical, that Harley had not seen before in a long time, and her smile was of pure
welcoming joy.

Harley's was an answering smile, but his heart was full of a longing and an anger equally fierce.
Never had she seemed to him more to be desired than on that morning; tall, straight, and young,
instinct with the life and strength of the great upland reaches upon which she lived, her pure
soul looking out of her pure eyes, she was a woman to be won by the man to whom her love was
given, and he rebelled because he did not have the right. Temptation was strong within him,
and he had excuse.

"Speeches, however good, do not appeal to you to-day?" he said.

"No, I prefer the mountains."

She pointed to the line of peaks that formed a border of darker blue on the horizon.

"So do I," said Harley, with emphasis, but he meant, at that moment, that he was glad to be
alone with her.

"Since chance has brought us together," he said, "why should we not continue in this way?"

They walked on, and he was very close to her, so close that when a wanton wind caught a stray
ringlet of her hair it brushed lightly against his cheek. Faint and fleeting as was the touch,
every nerve thrilled. He said fiercely to himself that she was his and should remain his.

They came to a little brook, a stream of ice-cold water flowing down from the distant mountains,
and he helped her across, although a single step would have carried her from bank to bank.
Then, too, he held her hand in his longer than the case warranted, and again he tingled. He
said nothing, nor did she, but she glanced at him and she was a little afraid; his lips were
closed in the firm fashion that she knew, and his eyes were on the distant mountains. Behind
them came a broad shadow, but neither looked back.

Jimmy Grayson was a great man, but Cæsar and his fortunes were now completely forgotten by
both Harley and Sylvia; each was thinking only of the other, and though they were still silent,
they wandered on and on, Sylvia content that Harley was by her side, and Harley happy to feel
her so near that her hair blown in the wind had touched his face. Had they looked back they
would have seen the shadow come a little nearer and raise its arm in an angry gesture. The
town sank behind the swells, and before lay only a brown expanse of country that rolled away
with unbroken monotony. A slight grayish tint, as of a mist, crept into the glittering blue
of the sky, but Harley and Sylvia did not notice it.

Sylvia felt, in a way, as if she were in a state of suspended animation. The world had paused
for a moment, and for that reason she knew that fate was impending; she, too, felt a thrill
running through every nerve, and she felt the presence, so near her, of the man whom she loved,
and would always love. 

Chapter Two: From the unknown tribes of which the scholar Ptolemy Philadelphus
    discovered in his travels. - The University Kerepes. - How
    the student a pair Fabian Riding boots to the head and flew
    Professor Mosch Terpin the Balthasar students invited to tea.
    

Chapter Three: How Fabian did not know what to say. - Candida and
    young women who are not allowed to eat fish. - Mosch Terpin literary
    tea. - The young prince.

    Chapter Four: How the Italian violinist Sbiocca the Lord throw cinnabar
    in the double bass, threatened and Referendarius Pulcher was exposed
    not to foreign affairs. - Toll-officiants and retained wonders for
    the house. - Balthazar's enchantment with a floor button.

    
    Chapter Five: How Fuerst barsanuphe Leipzig Larks and Danziger Goldwasser
    had breakfast, a butter stain on the Kasimirhose and got the
    confidential secretary to the Privy cinnabar Spezialrat rose. -
    The Bilderbuecher the Doctor Prosper Alpanus. - How a porter
    students Fabian bit into the finger, this one Dress was towed and
was therefore scorned. - Balthazar Flight.

    
    Chapter Six: How the Secret Spezialrat cinnabar in his Garden has
    been tweaked and the grass took a Taubad. - The Order of the
    gruengefleckten Tigers. - A happy thought Schneider Theater.
    - As the Lady of the Rose Schoen watered with coffee and Prosper
Alpanus her his friendship insured.

    
    Chapter Seven: How the Professor Mosch Terpin Baronial Wine cellar
    nature explored. - Mycetes Beelzebub. - Despair of the student
    Balthasar. - Beneficial effect a well furnished country house
    on the domestic happiness. - How to Prosper Alpanus the Balthasar
a turtle box handed over and rode off.

    
    Chapter Eight: How long skirt Fabian's Scholars for the sake Esse
    was held and a sectarian rioters. - How Fuerst Barsanuphe behind
    the fireplace screen and entered the Director General of natural
    Affairs conceded. - Escape from cinnabar Mosch Terpin home. - How
Mosch Terpin on a summer bird riding and wanted to become emperor,
but then went to bed.

    
    Chapter Nine: Fix a faithful valet. - How the old Liese instigated
    a rebellion and the Minister cinnabar ausglitschte on the run. - How
    strange way of Personal physician of princes cinnabar sudden death
    declared. - How Fuerst Barsanuphe was troubled, onion ass, and as
cinnabar loss was irreplaceable.

    
    Last Chapter: Wistful request of the author. - As the Professor
    Mosch Terpin calmed down and never peevish Candida could be.
    - Like a gold beetle to the doctor Prosper Alpanus something in his
ear, humming this one took leave and Balthasar happy marriage led.

Not far from a graceful village, hard by the way, lay on the heated floor of the blazing sun
stretched a poor ragged Bauerweib. Tormented by hunger, panting with thirst, very perished, was
the unfortunate under the weight of the drought in the basket piled high Wood, which they in
the forest under the trees and shrubs picked tiresome, sunk down, and she could scarcely breathe,
she did not believe otherwise than that they die well but then end her dreary misery at once would.
But she soon gained so much power, the ropes with which they fastened the wooden basket on her
back loszunesteln, and slowly push up to a grassy spot that was standing nearby. Since then she
broke out in loud lament: "must," she wailed, "I must and my poor husband alone because all the
hardship and meet all the misery? Are we not in the village the only ones of all, everything
has been forgotten sour sweat notwithstanding remain in constant poverty and hardly so much
to acquire, to our hunger? - Three years ago, when my husband digging in our garden goldstueck
in the earth was, yes, we thought the luck had finally turned around in us and now junta would
the good days, but what happened! - Thieves stole the money, house and barn We burned away over
his head, smashed the grain in the fields of hail, and around the undergo full measure of our grief
over the edge to punish us the sky is still with the little changeling, I gave birth to shame
and ridicule of the whole village. - At St. Laurenztag Now the boy is two and a half years have
been and can not stand on his Spinnenbeinchen, do not go and growls and meows to speak instead,
like a cat. And eats the unfortunate Abortion as the strongest boy of at least eight years without
him in the least What strikes. God have mercy on him and about us that we grossfuettern the
boy have to ourselves to pain and greater need, eat and drink more and more Tom Thumb is yes,
but not his whole life working days! No, no, this is more can stand as a human being on this
earth! - Oh, could I just die - just die! " And that was where the arms crying and sobbing,
until at last, overcome by pain, completely exhausted sleep. -

By law the wife could complain about the vile changeling, the two and a half before they Years
born. What you at first sight very well for a strange little piece of cartilaginous See Wood could've
happened to have an almost two spans high, misshapen boy that of the basket, where he lay across
it, and crept down, now growling in the grass circulated. The head stuck deep between the shoulders
of the things that took place of the back kuerbisaehnlicher an outgrowth of, and directly under
the breast hung haselgertduennen legs down that the boy looked like a radish Skived. The face was
a dull eye discover not much sharper gazing, but it was probably the long pointed nose, of black
shaggy hair hervorstarrte, and a pair of small, black sparkling little eyes aware that, especially
in the way, the very old, is furrowed features of the face, a small Little Mandrake seemed to
express. -

As well, as I said, the woman had fallen over her grief into a deep sleep and her Soehnlein had
herangewaelzt close to it, it happened that the lady of rose beauty, lady of the nearby monastery,
returning home from a walk, walked by that way. You stopped and was, as they naturally pious
and compassionate, at the sight of poverty, offered to her, very touched. "Oh you just Heaven,"
she began, "how much misery and hardship there are still on this earth! - The hapless woman!
- I know that she hardly the love Life, because it runs over its forces and is executed dropped
from hunger and sorrow! - How I feel now more than ever sensitive to my poverty and powerlessness!
Oh, if I could but only help as I wanted! - But what I had left, the few gifts that the hostile
a fate to rob me not, could not destroy, to me too Bidding is that I want to start shooting vigorously
and faithfully, to control the sorrow. Money I would have to also halt about it, you would
do nothing to help, poor woman, but your State, perhaps even worse. You and your husband, you
two is now even Wealth is not bestowed, and to whom wealth is not bestowed, the disappearing
goldstueck from his pocket, he does not know how, he has nothing like this as a great disappointment
and, the more money flows to him, all the more poorer. But I know more than all the poverty, when
all Not gnaws at your heart that you gave birth to that small little monsters, which is like
an evil weird load depends on you, which you must carry through life. - Gross - beautiful - strong
- Clever, yes, all the boy can not even now be, but he is perhaps still help in other ways.
"- So the girl sat down on the grass and took the child on his lap. The evil mandrakes struggled
and stretched himself, and growled the lady wanted to bite the fingers that said, "Quiet, quiet,
little beetle!" and ran softly and gently with the palm of his hand over his head across from
the forehead to in the neck. Gradually smoothed out while stroking the matted hair of the
little ones , until it parted, hinabwallte on the forehead fitting, in beautiful soft curls on
the high shoulders and Kuerbisruecken. The little boy had become more quiet and finally asleep.
As he carefully put the Lady Rose Schoen close to the mother through the grass, sprinkled them with
water from a mental Riechflaeschchen they pulled from his pocket, and then walking briskly away.

When
the woman woke up soon afterwards, she felt wonderfully refreshed and strengthened. It seemed to
her that it had kept a capable meal and a good drop of wine drinking. "Oh," she exclaimed,
"how am I still in the little sleep as much comfort, so much gaiety come! - But the sun will
soon be down behind the mountains, well away home!

"- But she refused to be off the basket, but missed as she looked into it, the little ones in the
same moment, straightened up from the grass and tearful squawks. So when the mother looked around
for him, she beat her hands in astonishment and exclaimed - "Zach - Zaches Klein, who's added
because under his hair combed nice like that! - Zach - Small Zacher how pretty you would dress
the curls, if you're not such a disgusting nasty Young were here! - Well, come, come! - Into
the basket "They wanted to capture him and cross over kicked lay the wood, but as small Zaches
with his legs, grinning at the mother and mewed very clearly: "I do not!" - "Zach - Klein
Zach!" cried the woman quite out themselves, "Who has he taught to speak in the meantime? Now! if
you are such beautiful hair combed have when you talk like, you'll also be able to run well. "The
woman hoisted the basket on his back, small Zaches clung to her apron, and so it went to the
village.

They had gone to the parsonage, as it happened that the pastor and his most recent Boy, a golden-haired
boy beautiful picture of three years, was standing in his doorstep. As of now, the woman with
the heavy wooden basket, and with small Zaches that on her apron
dangling come along, he saw, he called out to her: "Good evening,
Mrs. Henry, how are you - You have indeed invited to do a heavy burden,
ye can not continue any more, come here, you rest a little out on
this bench at my door, my maid to you a fresh Trunk rich "- Liese
left to be told twice, she put down her basket and was about to open
his mouth to the venerable Lord all their grief, to lament their plight,
as a small Zaches in the rapid turn of the mother lost her balance
and the priest flew to the feet.

The stooped down quickly and picked up the little ones, saying: "Why, Mrs. Henry, Mrs. Henry, what
did you do there for a nice picture dearest boy! That is a true blessing of heaven to have
such a wonderfully beautiful child. "And so he took the child in his arms and caressed him
and it did not seem to notice the naughty Daeumling growled and even ugly mauzte and even the
venerable Mr. wanted to bite his nose. But Mrs. Liese was amazed at all before the clergy
and looked staring at him with staring eyes and did not know what to think. "Oh, dear Reverend,
"she said at last in a tearful voice," a man of God, as you drives Surely not made fun of a poor
unfortunate woman whom the heavens, he may even know why, is punished with the hideous changeling
"" Why, "replied the priest very seriously, "what do you Talking for great stuff, dear wife
of derision - changeling - Punishment of the sky - I understand you do not know is that you
are completely blinded do if your pretty boy does not sincerely loves. - Kiss me, like small
! Man "- The priest fondled the boy, but Zaches growled:" I do not like "and snapped! again
to the minister nose. - "Behold the wicked beast!" Liese said frightened, but at the moment,
the boy said the priest: "Oh, dear Father, you are so good you do so nice to the children that
will have probably all love you sincerely for you! "" O hear but only, "said the pastor, by his eyes
glittered with joy," Oh, but hears only woman Lisa, the pretty boys agree, your dear Zaches to whom
you want that bad. I see it, already! you will never make what happened to the boy that he was
ever so handsome and sensible. Hear, Liese, let me have your hopeful child care and Education. If
your grinding poverty is the boy you just a burden, and to me it's a pleasure to educate him
as my own son! "-

Liza could not come with astonishment to himself, once said about it the other: "But, dear sir -
dear sir, because that really serious that you take the little misshapen and educate yourself
and get rid of the need do the I've been using the changeling "- but the more the woman of
their heinous haesslichkeit Little Mandrake the priest held up, the more eagerly claimed this,
that, in its great Blindness did not deserve, from heaven with the wonderful gift of such
a prodigy blessed be, until at last he was running very angry with small Zaches on the arm in
the House and locked the door from inside.

There stood Mrs. Liese petrified remains of the priest doorstep and do not know what they should
think of all this. "What in the world's sake," she said to herself, "is happen because with paying
homage to our pastor that he, in my small Zaches so completely is
even fond and foolish for Knirps holds a nice and reasonably boy?
- Well!

God help the good Lord that he took away the burden from the shoulders and themselves charged,
he may now see how he wears it! - Hey! has become as easy now the wood basket, due to small
Zaches not to sit with him and the worst worry! -

This progressed wife Lisa, the wood basket on his back, funny and good things their way! - -

Did I also mention currently still completely about it, would you, gracious reader, yet probably
suspect that the Stiftsfraeulein Rose Schoen, or how they otherwise
called Rose Green Schoen, a very special story would have to have.

For nothing else, it was probably as the mysterious effect of their Kopfstreichelns and Haarausglaettens
that small Zaches of the good-natured priest looked upon for a beautiful and clever child, and
the same as his own was taken. You could, dear reader, but, in spite of your excellent Ingenuity
in false assumptions or even get to the big disadvantage of history many Sheets on strike, just
like to know more about the mystical Stiftsfraeulein; better it is, therefore, well, I'll
tell you right all I own from the appreciation of Dame white.
 All his grievances now became great
wrongs--he was an injured man whom the world persecuted; Grayson, for whom he had done so much
in political life, had betrayed him; the girl whom he was going to marry had betrayed him,
too, and this young Eastern slip, Harley, was surely laughing at him.

These thoughts were intolerable to the "King," who had hitherto been victorious always, and
now his rage centred on Harley; he saw Harley everywhere, at every point of the compass wherever
he looked, and when he came out of the saloon and went down the deserted street he saw Harley
in reality, strolling along absently, his eyes upon the ground. He thought first that the correspondent
was on his way to join the crowd around the speaker's stand, but he soon perceived that he
was going in another direction. It was "King" Plummer's first impulse--there was still liquid
fire in his veins--to overtake Harley and demand the only kind of satisfaction that such a
man as he should have. Then he wished to see where Harley was going, because he had a premonition--false
in this case, the meeting was by accident--that he was on his way to Sylvia; so he decided
to follow as an animal stalks its game. Only the most powerful emotion conjoined with other
circumstances could have made the "King" do such a thing, as his nature was essentially open,
and he loved open methods. Yet he trailed his enemy with the skill and cunning of an Indian.

He saw Harley and Sylvia meet, and all his suspicions were confirmed. Again he felt a fierce
impulse, and it was to rush upon the guilty pair, but he restrained it and still followed.
His perceptions were trained to other things, but he was in no danger of being seen by them;
they were too much absorbed in each other, and all the world passed by them unnoticed. The
"King," though a rough, blunt man, saw this, and it made the fire in him burn the hotter.

He saw them stop at last, he saw Harley kiss Sylvia, and then he saw the girl turn away. He
waited until he saw Sylvia pass over the swell, and then he took his opportunity. Whether he
would have fired if Sylvia had not come he could not say to himself afterwards in his cooler
moments. Remorse upon this point tortured him for some time.

When he turned away he saw nothing. He was agitated by the powerful truth that Sylvia preferred
death with Harley to life with him, and all his views were inward. He still did not know what
he would do, but there was much of a moving nature to him in the scene that he left. He had
never before seen such a look on a woman's face as that on Sylvia's when she threw herself
upon Harley's breast and defied his bullet; it was beautiful and wonderfully pathetic, and
something like a sob came from the burly "King." Harley, too, had borne himself like a man;
there was no fear in the face of the Eastern youth when he looked into the muzzle of the pistol
that threatened instant death; "King" Volume slipped through the treacherous
and forth, and began to squawk indignantly cinnabar, "What you handle it in such a terrible
my body around, but the stupid thing you can hang, as it will, minister I am Now once and shall
stay there! "-

"What," the prince said, now angry, "What have I Ordensraete if ruecksichts Tapes of those great
institutions exist which ran counter to all my will? - Patience,
my dear minister cinnabar! soon will it be different!

"

By command of the princes had to now come to the High Council, the two philosophers and a naturalist,
is level, traveled through the North Pole coming, were begotten, the about the question of how
the cleverest way to the Minister in the bond of cinnabar gruengefleckten Tigers to take deliberate,
should. In order for this important advice related forces collect, all members were given up,
not thinking to eight days earlier, to this to be able to execute better and yet remain active in
the service of the state, however, However, to deal with the accounting. The streets outside
the palace, where the Ordensraete, Philosophers and scientists should keep their meeting, were
covered with thick straw, so that the rattle of the cars have the men do not disturb, and therefore
could not just be drumming, music made, not even speaking loudly in the vicinity of the palace.
In the palace itself stumbled all around on the thick felt boots,
and agreements are made by Characters.

Seven days passed from early morning until late in the evening had taken the meetings, and was
still thinking about a decision.

The prince, very impatient, sent once over the other way and let them say it should in the
devil's name they can think of something but finally spared. That helped, but very and nothing.

The
naturalist had explored possible as much natural cinnabar, height and width of its Rueckenauswuchses
taken and the most accurate calculation about it submitted to the
Plenary.

It was he who suggested at last, whether you pull the Schneider Theater for the advice may.

As strange as this proposal might appear, but he was in fear and misery in which all were accepted unanimously.

The
theater Schneider Kees was an extremely clever, clever man, As it the hard Case was argued,
as he looked through the calculations of the naturalist, he was with the finest resources,
such as put the ribbon on the standard seats alma vinegars can, at
hand.

On chest and back should namely mounted a certain number buttons and the ribbon be buttoned it. The
attempt succeeded over the masses well.

The prince was delighted and approved the proposal of the Religious Council, the Order of the
gruengefleckten Tigers nunmehro be divided into different classes, the number of buttons, which
he added was.

For example, Order of the gruengefleckten Tigers with two buttons - with three buttons, etc.
The Minister cinnabar became the distinctive mark that otherwise require no other could the order
of twenty AGAINST jeweled buttons, for just twenty buttons required the strange shape of his body.

The tailor Kees received the Order of the gruengefleckten Tigers with two gold buttons and was
because the prince of him, despite his happy thought, for a poor tailor held and therefore did
not want to be dressed by him to the Privy large costumer the princes appointed. -

From the window of his country house of Dr. Prosper Alpanus looked thoughtfully down at his
He had the park all night is busy trying to make von Balthasar's horoscope and some of them
published, which covered the small tin. On the most important, which go with the kids in the
garden when he was overheard by Adrian and Pulcher. Just wanted to call his Prosper Alpanus unicorns,
that it produces the shell would like because he wanted to continue after high-Jakob home
when a car daherrasselte and before Gattertor the park was quiet. It was said that the beauty of
Rose Stiftsfraeulein wish the Mr Doctor to speak. "Very welcome," said Prosper Alpanus, and
the lady went into it. She wore a long black dress and was wrapped in fog like a matron. Prosper
Alpanus, seized by a strange idea, took his pipe and let the sparkling rays the button to drop
the lady.

There it was, as lightning flashed rustling around her, and she stood in a white transparent
dress, gleaming white Libellenfluegel at the shoulders, and braided red roses by the hair.
- "Well, well," whispered Prosper, took the pipe under his robe, and once again was the lady in the previous
costume there.

Prosper Alpanus they kindly invited to settle down. Miss von Schoen said Rose now how long ago it was
their intention to visit the Doctor in his country home, to make the acquaintance of a man whom
the whole country as a highly talented, campaigns charity Have praise. Certainly he would grant
her request, to the nearby Fraeuleinstifts medically probable as the old ladies that was often ill
and were left without help. Prosper Alpanus politely replied that while he has long since abandoned
the practice, but exceptionally visit the canons, would not if it did, and then asked whether they themselves,
the young lady suffer from Rose Schoen, perhaps at some evils. The young lady assured me that
they only now and then a rheumatic feel twitching in the limbs when they are at the morning air
cold, but now is perfectly healthy, and started some indifferent conversation. Prosper asked whether,
since it was still early morning, perhaps, would take a cup of coffee
and the Rose Schoen said that Stiftsfraeuleins like never disdain.

Coffee was brought, but so also did Prosper strive to pour out, the cups were empty, despite
of coffee from the pot flows. "Well, well," smiled Alpanus Prosper, "that is evil coffee!
- Have you, my best lady, but just prefer to pour the coffee. "

"With pleasure," replied the young lady and took the pot.

But despite no drop poured from the can, but the cup was full and full, and the coffee spilled over
on the table, on the dress of Stiftsfraeuleins. - She sat quickly
down the pot at once the coffee was gone without a trace.

Both Prosper and Alpanus Stiftsfraeulein looked now for a while in
silence with weird eyes.

"They were," now began the lady, "you were my doctor, certainly a very attractive Book deals,
as I entered. "

"Indeed," replied the doctor, "This book contains do strange things."

He wanted to open the little book in gilt cover, which lay before him on the table. But that was
a very vain, because with a loud slap, slap the proposed Book again
and again together.

"Well, well," said Prosper Alpanus, "you try it with the stubborn things here, my dear young lady!
"

He gave it to the lady the book, and she touched it only opened itself by itself. But all the
leaves detaches itself and spread from a giant folio and rustled
around in the room.

Startled, the girl went back. Now the doctor, the book struck out
with violence, and all Leaves disappeared.

"But," said Prosper Alpanus now with a gentle smile, as he rose from his seat, "But my best madam,
we spoil the time with such a vile Tafelkuensten; because, unlike ordinary Tafelkunststuecke
it're not, we drove up to now, We had better proceed to higher things. "" I want to leave, "said
the lady, rising the front seats.

"Oh," Prosper Alpanus, "said the would like to tackle but probably not very well without my
will; then, my lady, I must tell you only, you are now totally in my power. "

"In your power," the lady exclaimed angrily, "in your power, sir -
foolish imagination!"

And it spread from her silken dress, and she floated as the most beautiful
Camberwell on the ceiling of the room.

But once whistled and roared after her as well Prosper Alpanus efficient Stag Beetle. Quite tired of
mourning cloak fluttered down and ran as a small Profile Send private
on the ground around.

But the stag beetle ran mewing and puffing after him as gray cat. The little mouse got up again as a brilliant
hummingbird, as collected all sorts of strange voices around the villa, and all sorts of wonderful
insects cause sumseten with Waldgefluegel them strange, and a golden net spun round the windows.
Stood with Suddenly the fairy Rosabelverde, shining in all its splendor
and majesty, the gleaming white Dress, the sparkling Diamantguertel
looked around a bit, white and red roses through the dark curls braided
middle of the room.

Before her the Magus in gold-embroidered robe, a brilliant crown in the main, the pipe with the
brilliant fire button on the hand.

Rosabelverde walked up to the Magus, accounted for as a golden comb
her hair and broke, as he was of glass, on the marble floor.

"Woe is me - hurt me!" cried the fairy.

Suddenly sat back in the Stiftsfraeulein Rose Schoen long black dress at the coffee table, and
its opposite the Doctor Prosper Alpanus.

"I thought," Prosper said Alpanus very quiet by the Chinese cups in the most glorious steaming
coffee from Mocha poured without hindrance, "I thought my best gracious Miss, we both were worried
now sufficiently well, as we are together in it. - Very sorry it
does me that her beautiful hair comb broke on my hard floor.

"

"Only my clumsiness," replied the lady, einschluerfend with delight the coffee "Is to blame. On
this ground must be careful not to let something fall, for err I have not, these stones with
the most wonderful hieroglyphics describes the many just ordinary marble veins beduenken would
like. "

"Worn talismans, madam," said Prosper, "talismans are worn, these stones, nothing more. "

"But the best doctor," cried the young lady, "How is it possible that we do not know us learned since
the earliest time that we never once met on our way? "

"Diverse Education, best lady," said Prosper Alpanus, "diverse education is only to blame! While
you as the most promising girls in Dschinnistan entirely your could be over-rich nature, your
lucky genius, I was a student truebseliger, included in the pyramids and listened to the professor
Kollegia Zoroaster, an ancient Knasterbart, but the damned much knew. In the reign of worthy
princes Demetrius I took my residence in this small charming little country. "

"What," said the lady, "and were not referred to as the Enlightenment Fuerst Paphnutius Sedelnikov
""

Not at all, "said Prosper," I managed, rather, my own I am quite to conceal, as I am struggling,
Aufklaerungssachen concerning special knowledge to prove in all kinds of writings that I became
popular. I proved that without the princes It never will, thunder and lightning would have to, and that
we nice weather and a good harvest solely due to his nobility and
his efforts, the inner in the chambers about it as very deliberate,
while outside the common people in the plowed field and sown.

Fuerst Paphnutius then got up to the Privy Oberaufklaerungs-President, a job that I threw
my shell as an onerous burden, as the storm passed. - Secretly, I was useful, as I could.
That is what we, me and you, madam, call truly useful. - Do you know well, the best lady, that
I was the one who warned you before the collapse of Aufklaerungspolizei?
- That I am, you have the possession of little things like thank you
showed me earlier? - O my God!

Love pin lady Just look out these windows yet! - Recognize no more
than this park, in the They often strolled and talked to the friendly
ghosts, in the bushes - Flowers - live sources? - Did this park, I
saved through my science.

He is still there as at the time of the old Demetrius. Fuerst barsanuphe cares, except the sky
grant it thanks, not much to the magic being, he is an affable Mr.
and lets everyone conjure someone so much it feels like when he lets
it remember not only the duties and properly charged.

So I live here, like you, dear lady, in your pen, happy and carefree "! -

"Doctor," cried the young lady by her overthrew the tears from his eyes, "Doctor, what to say
You! - Which enlightenment! - Yes, I this grove, know where I enjoyed the most blissful joy!
- Doctor! - Noble man to whom I owe so much! - And you can get my little schuetzling so hard
to follow? -

"You have," replied the doctor, "you have my best lady, by your innate
Good nature carried away, squandered your gifts to one unworthy.

Cinnabar and remains, regardless of your goods containing Help there,
a little misshapen rascal, now, because the golden comb broken, is
very into my hand.

"

"Have pity, O Doctor!" pleaded the girl.

"But just take a look kindly
to me," said Prosper, by the lady Balthazar Horoscope, which he had
been held up.

The young lady looked into it and then called full
of pain: "Yes - if there is such I must depart, the higher power.
- Poor cinnabar "! -

"Confess, best lady," the doctor said, smiling,
"you admit that the ladies often put up in the most bizarre indeed,
the idea which gave birth to the moment, restless and ruthless persecution
and every touch of another painful conditions are not heedless! -
Cinnabar be served must be fate, but he should still be undeserved
Honorary reach. So I pay homage to your power, your kindness, your
virtue. I value very gracious Miss! "

"Wonderful, excellent man,"
cried the young lady, "you remain my friend!" -

"Evermore," replied
the doctor. "My friendship, my heartfelt sympathy to you, dear Fee
will never stop. If you have comforted me in all cases of questionable
Life, and - oh you drink coffee with me as often as you to sense '. She was sitting by the window looking out at the vast snowy
plains and the dim blue mountains afar, and apparently she did not hear him as he entered,
although he closed the door behind him with a slight noise. He leaned over her and took one
of her hands in both of his.

"Sylvia," he said, "won't you come away from the window a moment?"

He did not wait for her answer, but drew her away.

"I do not want any one in the street to see me kiss you," he said, and he kissed her.

Her cheeks, already red, grew redder.

"You mustn't do that," she said.

"I can't help myself," he said, humbly, and did it again.

"I have the right," he added, "because you are mine now. Last night Mr. Plummer, of his own
free will and volition, gave you to me."

"Good old daddy!" she murmured.

XXIII

ELECTION NIGHT

At last came the great day which was to tell whether their efforts were a brilliant success
or a dire failure--there was no middle ground--and the special train took them to the small
city in which the candidate lived. All the correspondents were yet with him, as on the eventful
night following the eventful day they must tell the world how Jimmy Grayson looked and what
he said when the wires brought the news, good or bad. A few faithful political friends had
been invited also to stay with him to the end, and they completed the group which would share
the hospitality of the candidate, who must smile and be the good host while the nation was
returning his sentence. Harley thought it a bitter ordeal, but it could not be helped.

After his recognition of the great fact that Sylvia and Harley loved each other and belonged
to each other, "King" Plummer had gone to Idaho for a while, but he rejoined them on the homeward
journey, and his spirits seemed fully recovered. He drifted easily in conversation about her
into the old paternal relationship with Sylvia which became him so well, and he never again
alluded to that vain dream of his that he might be something else. Moreover, after his temporary
alienation he had become a more ardent Graysonite than ever, and would not hear of anything
except his triumphant election, despite the immense power of the forces allied against him.

While they changed cars often in the West, the one that bore them to the candidate's town had
been their home for several weeks, and even the engine was the same; thus the train attendants
fell under the spell of Jimmy Grayson, and when he walked down their car-steps for the last
time they came around him in their soiled working clothes and wished him success. It was scarcely
dawn then, the east was not yet white, but Harley could see sincerity written all over their
honest faces, and Jimmy Grayson, who had listened to ten thousand words of the same kind, some
true and some false, was much moved.

"Sir," said the engineer, "at midnight, when the tale is told, I shall be three hundred miles
from here, but if you are not the man, then it is a tale that I shall not care to hear."

"Friends," said Jimmy Grayson, gravely, "I am glad to have your good wishes; the good wish
is the father of the good act, and whatever tale the coming night has to tell let us endure
it without vaunting or complaint."

As Mr. Grayson and his friends walked away in the growing dawn, the railroad men raised a cheer.
A little later Harley heard the puff, puff of a locomotive followed by the grinding of wheels,
and the train which had been their home whirled away into that West where they had seen and
done so many strange things. Harley tried to follow it awhile with his eyes, because this was
like a parting with a human being, an old and faithful friend; he felt, too, that the most
vivid chapter yet in his life was closing. Unconsciously he raised his hand and waved good-bye;
the others, noticing the act, understood and were silent.

All were under the influence of the morning, which was dawning slowly and ill. There are fine
days in November, yet we cannot depend upon it, and now the month was in one of its bad humors.
An overcast sun was struggling through brown, ominous clouds, and its light was pale and cold.
A sharp wind whistled against the houses, yet shuttered and silent in these early morning hours.
The city was still asleep, and did not know that the candidate had come home to hear his fate.

"Is this ugly sky an omen of ill?" asked Churchill, who, despite his supercilious nature and
the fact that he represented an opposition newspaper, had come at last under the spell of Jimmy
Grayson and was in a way one of the band.

"If it is a gray sky for Mr. Grayson, it is a gray sky for the other man, too, and I draw no
inference from the circumstance," replied Harley.

Nevertheless there was an oppression over the whole group--perhaps it was because they were
so near the end; and scarcely another word was said as they walked along the silent street,
each thinking of the day at hand and the night to follow.

The candidate had offered all the hospitality of his house, but none would accept, not wishing
to intrude upon the first freshness of his family reunion; they intended to register at the
hotels and come to his home later on for the news of the day. So they stopped at a street corner,
bade him a short farewell, and allowed him to go on alone.

But Harley could not resist the temptation of looking back. They had arrived in the town two
hours ahead of time, and he knew that the candidate's family were not yet expecting him, but
he could see the house behind its shield of trees, now swept of foliage, and already there
were signs of life about it. He saw the candidate's wife run down the steps and meet her husband,
and then he looked away.

"This is one part of a Presidential campaign that we must not watch," he said to the group
about him, and without a word they walked to their hotel, not glancing back again, although
more than one in the group was secretly envious of Harley, because of the welcome that they
knew awaited him a little later.

It was a good hotel that received them, and it was an abounding breakfast that awaited them
there. Harley sat near a window of the dining-room, where he could look out upon the street
and see the city coming to life, a process that began but slowly, because it is always a holiday
when the people cast their votes for a President. Yet the city awoke at last, men began to
appear in the streets, a polling-booth opposite the hotel was opened, and the Presidential
election had begun.

The dining-room was now filling up, and all around Harley and his friends rose the hum of interested
talk. People were beginning to speculate on the result, and to point out the strangers whom
Jimmy Grayson had brought among them.

Harley presently went into the lobby and found it crowded. All there were touched by a keen,
eager interest, and were balancing the chances. The correspondent, alert, watchful, saw that
the bulk of opinion was against Jimmy Grayson. He saw, too, that while there was much local
pride in the candidate, it was tinctured by envy, and here and there by malice. He realized
to the full the truth of the old adage that a prophet is never without honor save in his own
country.

In that crowded lobby were men who had been conspicuous in local public life when Jimmy Grayson
was a mere boy, and they could not understand how he had passed them; it was a chance, they
said and believed--mere luck, not merit. Others, in a tone of patronage, told stories of the
days when he was a threadbare and penniless young attorney, and they named at least five other
men of his age who had been more promising. Then they depreciated his gifts, and in the same
breath disclaimed all intention of doing so, believing, too, that the disclaimer was genuine.
Yet Harley had no great blame for these men; he understood how bitter it was for them to see
the hero march by while they stood still, and it was not the first instance of the kind that
he had noticed.

But the crowd, on the whole, was loyal, and sincerely wished Jimmy Grayson success. He said, is "Senor, Toni Main sad.
"I comforted him. I told him. "It's the wedding will be Rodriguez 'But he shook his head.

I
asked Toni Main.

Main Toni said: "I'm not sad. I am pleased to Senor. "But Main Toni had red eyes.

As I said, "Main Toni! Rodriguez suffered greatly.

"-

Main Toni became very glaring eyes! "Senor, Rodriguez loves me. I love him too. Rodriguez saved
my life. Senor, what do I have to admit it to him again? Nothing, Senor. ". . .

The day before the wedding came Sor Gracia.

She sits on the old woman who always spoke. The room was painted white. Above, a border was
painted by Saint. From the shoulder a each grew an arm of brass. In his hand was a candle each.
Sor Gracia lit all Candles. It might be a hundred.

Many people came. Women in green and yellow bodices. Women in shoes without heels, in Silk shoes,
shoes made of silk with gold, with silver, shells, with many white Beads embroidered. They
danced Fandango. They danced the Bolero. Main Toni danced. Rodriguez was dancing. All other looked
on. Drumming castanets. Tambourines and flutes sounded. The men snapped with your fingers. Others
suggested in his hands. A bagpipe played with a high, monotonous,
melancholy sound.

Main Toni stepped forward alone.

She leaned against Rodriguez.

He followed.

The limbs were stretched in a hotter pace. They grew circled, of course. They vaulted the breast.
His back bent, his hands were hot. Then they kept in a plastic Pose broke, and went alone into
the darkness. They returned soon.

The guests were received.

I went up to sleep.

It was late at night.

I woke up. A frantic cry rang out, whistling, whipped through the house. I fell down the stairs.
Below, I slipped. A little darkness fell on my eyes and pressed.

As I awoke, I was lying diagonally on the stairs. I slowly got up and walked out.

A man left a knife was stuck in Castilian his neck.

Only people to whom the death the throat goes, can shout Sun I saw
no blood.

It was Rodriguez.

It was half dark. Before my eyes circled red wheels. Flickering points jumped back and forth.

Main Toni and Joaquin Pelayo were close together. I went there. There
was a man It was all before me.

But I am not surprised. - - - It was the same face of him smiling as he pushed Graf Perdicans change in
his pocket. . . the same green undermine the was how I saw it in
front of Mrs. Mont Bell Aires box.

The lips were dark. A narrow strip of foam hung from his mouth.

In the face were blue Spots. The neck was swollen and red button at the throat like raw meat.

He
was broken into. The diamonds were irritated. Rodriguez had been added. The knife. . . the scream.
. . Pelayo had his thumb crushed the larynx. - - - I saw everything.

   Main Toni did not cry.
   

                              The sea lay like a large pearl.

   
   

                               The head of the stranger stood diagonally across the shoulder into
the air.

The neck bulged out. It could not last much longer.

The eyes looked now as if they had the star. The pupils were gray. They have been widely and
burned with a veiled fire. The nails he had driven into the palms. The arms lay still beside
him. All life was only in the seizure of the pupils.

Then broke the gaze. A quiver ran from the neck across the chest and played with weak shocks
over the abdomen.

Since this did Toni Main, which was greater and more terrible as all
that was Rodriguez, as he saved them from the cliff. . .

Main Toni did: they took the dying man with the feet wide his face, his head rolled back heavy.

Main
and Toni ran down to the beach. She threw herself on her knees in front of the sea, and by in the
vast splendor of the sun coming into said many times: "Oh, Santa Maria. . . Santa Maria de la Mar.
. ., "She put her hands to her face cried loudly and shouted.

Fifis autumnal passion

Brigitte: And now you understand life? Ulrich: Now I see death.

Carl Sternheim

And never again the love was so gentle, humble and pure, So full of music to there. . .

Ernst Stadler

The streets with the tagmüden gray sidewalks were broken, and the tail-like, wide Fonts, flown away
and fall prey to the strong gestures of the men lay down and clapping idiosyncratically to the
ground. It was evening. The willows and ash trees of the gardens hovered shyly and flickering
in front of the immense silence of the opal and deep-yellow sky. And as the water Iridescent sucked
from the air, the people walked across the streets like about images of Signac and Cross: A
quarter of an hour burned the city in a quiet glow of yellow Getupf.

Fire fire ran down in thin strands then in the city and mingled bells and the cruel urge of eating
dusk.

As chasms broke for days entfeuerter guns the castle windows over the extinction of houses squares,
solemn, hard and old, a time even beyond.

Then the lantern series jumped down the streets and reached the slight rattle Ignition behind,
the place of a furious force of a thousand corners, string and turns burst of light and was rammed
up and over the deeply dark autumn sky sterndurchlochter weird and cool growing up.

Fifi appeared on the podium.

Of the shooting already sounded the hammering of hits to play the organ began. But from the right
output of the barracks was a Herculean man waved impatiently with his shoulder, the organ was
silent: Fifi was the tip of the right foot on the back, put his arms
how to handle her hips and waited.

The Great began to scream. His arms were rowing through the air, they defined the most daring
figures, inhibited each other and threw themselves In successful surge over the audience, wide open,
also. A hat was glued nodded him on the head. At the handles, he shone. The rock was crushed
and hung around the body, whose flesh seemed spongy and unpleasant. It should be stressed that
the figure of Herculean was to understand the eye, when the chest
and the gesture is spread out and with grandiose opener at the height
increased, small and cowardly denied all this again and anxiously
as water droplets of an oily surface on the accumulated public were
handled.

His mouth called down hoarse words. He shouted. He threw venomous speeches to the people in
the face. "Look," he cried, "Fifis to dance. may come in, all, "and he waved," adults only
Dimensional representations: come. . . spicy scenes. . . (It was as though he crush something
Sticky in the mouth.) The King of Greece, have honored us in Vienna.

Highest rank expressed their admiration. " . . and as much as a wave of disgust ran from his sentences
and the knowing waving his clumsy hands, that two research officers themselves abruptly turned and
left. About the barracks was red to blue: Paris Relief!

The old man raised his hand, the organ to beat, and before the return in a part of the vortex
combined audience was Fifi in her dance.

Two young people were now opposite occurred in "the beauty of the Orient." Before the booth
were two palm trees and a big fat woman, old, full of history, that evil white Eyes. She was
the wife of the athletes, the Orient and Paris were two jaws on the
two Meßstraße sides of the bit and it turned out victims.

But the East was better, and Paris fell from city to city. Fifi had slender legs, but Lizzy, called Louise,
had hips like a Dynamo. And at their dirty jokes went over the two men were looking through a
round glass Photography by Ghizeh came and pushed back by a carpet, one for Lydia, the lady without
a torso, which, in a green velvet chair sat in a chair and red inflamed Had eyes.

One of the gentlemen put on his gloves, and after this symbolic action, they were the rapid retreat.
In Jena, it would appear fights between the students, calling them
By Lizzy, called Louise.

Like a layer of air was unpleasant this behind her and she stepped out into the excited of the place
in which swam the broad, musical carousels laden and over rest and
glitter of mirrors, light strings and colorful girl turned over and
where a Sea of ​​people shoving, pushing excited and swung himself
over which shots rang out, Scream back and forth twitching and loud
bells aufzitterten dark.

As Frank turned around suddenly and went with the other. They broke through the current, and while
his face brightened, Franz pointed to Fifi and said: "The slight curve these legs are adorable
beautiful. . . His face was a perfect goodness, the Bold and striking this profile in a strange
nobility increased.

And as he said this, the little lips moving, Fifis eyes fell suddenly
on his Eyes and the eyes clung together until the organ suddenly flared
up with a shock silent.

The Herculean rattling drumming on a sign, Fifi had resigned, he waved to enter, but only one
followed, the crowd pushed further.

And Franz and his friend were further depressed when they handed the flow past on the green
painted frame, lived in the man-eater. Three cowboys, with red blouses, coquette, over an entire
prairie unruly half a week vain roar of laughter would, at times
boastful shot revolver in the air.

A real Mexicans held a Harpoon rotblänkerndem high with meat. Everywhere was the joke that the man-eaters
- were crocodiles, and because the people knew ahead that it would glued, put it inside in droves.

Then
came the big booth with the "flying men", two girls in blue jerseys with silver lace: a blond
and with the beginning of the bulging forms a singular sensibility sprays out, and the other
with chased, boyish limbs, black, face Toulouse Lautrec's average model (broad, common, discarded)
with an eerie tendrils of refinement, Soul and Keuschsein it. Along the gallery was the family,
six people, and blowing brass instruments, and the girls rocked the
top of the Tough, municipality of the road roller the Gezitter their
dance.

Their place was completely full. Always!

And when Francis escaped the river and hurried back, he saw Fifi, pushed out with a shock, from the
empty barracks reeled rapidly took hold and began to dance, weary, tired and fine and exhilarating,
as they saw Franz. Only small forces stopped, the mass flowing Flying to the people.

". . . Eye star. . . 'It rolled up from below.

It was getting late. The organ concluded. Fifi bowed. The athlete said the start of the Idea
from. "Just the beginning. . ., "He cried, snapped. But no one rose up. He shouted. No one.
As he went, from the void ashamed, embarrassed again on the podium, disappeared into the Lurking
inside, until the group is entirely run and had stepped forward again. Fifi crept out again.
As a large spider of the Herculean hung on his podium. Franz stood aside observant, laid his head wrong.
And as a troop approached, began at the top, racy to speak, a wink, the organ: Fifi. . .

People were pushed down, it was later, her face flushed with the Old, he sought the Clock.
Again and again disappeared Fifi, always began the show, quickly,
hastily changed Scene to scene, the gripping and sparse hair after
passers-by, the continuance, the sinking Fifi and the leaden seriousness
of their fire dance, and sometimes violent in Behold Then it was French
by zehn clock.

Police pressed forward with ropes, the whistle of the steam plant howled the crowd expired.

About the empty space by a narrow corridor, the policemen were released, and to the groups Were
curious, then came the artists, some with coats that they have the colorful and the flakes were hanged
and so between the employee, the lightless stalls and their different
gestures suddenly become disillusioned and yet of the exciting Arom
their commercial shrouded, flowing into the street.

First came cocky and the strong delusion of high bespornten leather
shoes swaying, the cowboys from Dresden and Garmisch.

Their sombreros hung by the neck. The hand was stuck in the holster so that maids shuddered and
boys in dramatic perspectives, detaching.

Behind the deliberate brutality of the wrestlers with the hairless
bear troops crossed the crew the shooting gallery next to the back.

They all had medium-length skirts, and dresses, what a fine and carrying dainty little flower patterns,
in Pentecostal style of many Bauernkattune, and as to two, left and right hung the well-dressed
and beautiful upright mother their heads bowed, gracefully hopped to her car, she looked like a porcelain
group from a small, middle-graceful, German manufacture.

Then: nothing. . . and Fifi. . . Narrow, but delicious wrapped in a yellow raincoat, shivering,
filling the place with nobility, she came up to the exit. With the thin left Hand she clutched
the collar over the chest in front of the neck as with a white clasp. The Lips were red and strange
as fine enamel on her pale face applied. You came just before the road along with the other. The
old woman was carrying a milk pail. The Herculean shuffled her uncomfortable, she yelled something,
Lydia - a big swollen animal - was stupid, lazy, incidentally, without cloak of green velvet
trousers. Lizzy laughed with all men. With greedy eyes of Mexicans joined the crocodile Fifi
on the other side in that it appeared between him and the athletes so much purer.

Obliquely on the wooden staircase that was running in the big yellow
car in which they lived, turned Fifi's head and looked somnambulistic
transfigured to the spot was at the Franz (they do not - This was
remarkable and strange at the same time - could have seen) with a
fraction of a Smile, while the Mexicans in lascivious joke they, with
hands on her hips attached, pushed into the interior.

To which she responded with painful drawing the shoulders.

Later, the Mexicans slipped out of the car. A cigarette rotation, with the elegance of the novels
moving all limbs, he strolled to the tavern artists. Franz, who for a long time the car circled, light
seemed to penetrate the narrow hatches and nagging voices heard inside the Space tear back and forth.
Then approached with a heavy, gleichabgetöntem step the patrols.

It grew late.

He left.

All the days of dancing Fifi. It had grown cooler. Curved monster was stretched to the sky. Senseless
Moon rose out of the nights.

Franz found himself in all relations with the world, society and
things ripped out and dragged into the aura of this dance with all
apprehending fevers.

In the "Flying man" every day increased the cash storm and sensation. The "Orient" deserved
well of the more mature women. brought "Paris" is 80-10 at night sometimes just to Performance.
During the breaks danced Fifi. The old man waved, screamed, was greedy, the later the Time ran
along. Announced the beginning of the presentation, he opened the curtains, Fifi pranced into
Interior. No one came. Sometimes maybe two masters. And then the old man grabbed his Fifi Paw
on the shoulder and threw them out. The organ began, Fifi got the feet back the blue horizon of
the draperies were keeping their movements and relief, and the tired vibrations their arms and
legs were like the short flutter of a dragonfly, persistently, in the air, erblitzt on a beautiful
waters. Slow progression of the evening were their gestures tired, tinged by a painful, lead-like
gravity. Franz heard the whistling of their Breath. And if, slightly flushed cheeks, closed,
came the coolness of autumn on their Sweat.

Franz remained a few days on the periphery of watching with pity and admiration painful filled.
Sometimes it seemed as though the next Pas overthrow it, collapse into itself . Let But she stayed.
But he was reluctant, this easy way to get at them, under the eyes
of the athletes or sticky with the taste of the usual slightly erotic
Connection would take place.

He felt that he was wearing in the content, which in its essence tailored to the child are
and the severity of this consciousness he took the courage to ease. Their eyes met from time to
time - not often - but in a beguiling, otherworldly Context.

They were already deeply settled into each other, as she has not known their votes.

Then came that evening. Thursdays.

It was a beautiful evening, with cool colorful star-hard, the park is full of fermenting noise.
He ran like a current through the city, english, überdunkelt and old in the summer, winter
tires, always beautiful. The light of entire border belt roads threw themselves into it, shimmered
in the small Pond, but he was no darkness and back again. Took it all in with big, deep self-evident.
Stand recovered, sheltering, untouchable, closed complex of distinction, as a way of asylum Center
around which revolved the city with Geleucht.

Thursday evenings. . .

It was beautiful.

Between seven and eight, or more precisely: A Clock castle is hooked: Five minutes until half
past seven Clock! Franz walked slowly to the fair, which began eight clock, which had previously
stopped at seven: Time, ate in the artists. His thoughts went slowly, slowly, do not expect
without energy to the inner image of Fifi dance reflected off moving, declarations been loosened
contrive, from a quiet longing and elated. As it creaked, and before him by his dreamed of
consciousness and violent steps hasch final movements came to mind,
with an infinitely sharp cut accent scream into it, threw him.

He ran on a grass roundabout tripped, pushed, jumped on a grid over
it.

His Hat was lost, with slit the sleeves, his chest was trembling.

He stormed to a fenced Monument had to turn back, ran into a dark
road, a man grabbed her by the neck and threw him back, his body slammed
to the picket fence and crashed on them like a mindless masses fell
down.

Back in the path lit up the red head of a cigarette, moved her to.

Besides Fifi was himself, his arms still lifted an angle, the eyes
very large in the manner and shell, stuck in the raft suddenly an
almost bluish light shine.

Two shimmering Parties were, the eyes in her face.

And so the holding hands, awkwardly, but is quite fulfilling in the gesture, she made a unspeakably
tired and slow step towards him, her face clear, shimmering with two Hosts. At that moment, the
rattle was quickly shot down next to them following, and how they
looked, it was only Fifi, which looked, watched as the Franz Hinge
depressed the gun snatched from his fingers, he hammered the piston
against the temple and very big on it, the trembling waited, walked.

But before he reached them, was the cigarette came up, jumped between
them and triggered the air currents going on, which ran between them.

It
was the Mexicans. He asked quickly, it screamed: "Hurt" Frank was
the gun he pointed to the lump on the grid. The Mexican pulled his
face into folds snapped, went the lump in his stomach flipped, lower
leg, that the body was around, lowered his Head close to the footwall
and drew heavily on the cigarette, that a red circle on the Fell down
in the middle of an ascetic, many scars and puncture wounds pierced
face appeared.

"The Fakir,". . . foaming of the Mexicans. "He should
be" whipped. . . and started him to work with his feet. As Franz prevent
him, his eye fell on Fifi.

She was completely changed. Her face was
like a white rock in the way of rapid flickering shocks red flashes
flowed. Flash stick alternated light and red and threatened to break
his neck.

And while they walked back to Franz, as she carried everything
against him, trembling a sound, rough against streaming in their throats,
on, and like all members urged him, she held a Back sobs, she threw
her head to one side, huge shock triggered to and like a condemned
man she dropped against the Mexicans, who received them confused,
the Franz looked again at her, seemed surprised and excited beyond
measure. Then suddenly, but without standing shoulder movement on
his mouth and threw her in a long kiss, she moved away.

Franz stood
for a while.

Then he turned around.

Behind him stood the Fakir.
He asked for his revolver. He said it in English.

Nothing seemed
Franz obvious as this sounds strange episode. He gave him the revolver.

The
fakir bowed and left. - -

Fifi was punched because she was late.
The Herculean bulged go to them and they appeared under his hands
like a fine cloth in the tips of thumb wrestling a rough bony Washerwoman.
She made no sound. She danced the evening that there were four performances.
She danced, that her legs were like the wound strings played a beautiful
violin, while the cool on her breast, pressed from the level in long,
gasping shock her breath.

Franz did not come.

She danced the nights
of Friday and Saturday down like lightning and glow coils ceded their
feet. It got colder, merciless penetrated the autumn. Now to-night they were trying to find out who this ruler was,
and no one yet could tell.

But the tale would be told in a few hours. Harley knew that over an area of three million square
miles, as large as the ancient civilized world, men were at work counting, down to the last
remote mountain hamlet, and putting the result on the wires as they counted it. And ninety
million people waited, ready to abide by the result, whether it was their man or the other.
To him there was something extraordinary in this organized, this peaceful but tremendous activity.
To-night all the efforts of the world's most energetic nation were bent upon a single point.
In each state the wires talked from every town and village to a common centre, and each state
in turn, through its metropolis, talked to the common centre of them all, and the general result
of all they said would be known to everybody before morning. It seemed marvellous to him, although
he understood it perfectly, that a few hours after the boxes were opened the votes should be
counted and accredited to the proper man.

He resumed his seat at a table, although there was yet but little for him to write, and listened
to the dry, monotonous voice of Dexter as he called the vote. The results were still of a variable
nature, gains here and losses there, but on the whole the losses were the larger, and the atmosphere
of the room grew more discouraging. The great state of New York, upon which they had relied,
was showing every sign that it would not justify their faith. The returns from the city of
New York, from Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, were all bad, and the most resolute hopes could
not make them otherwise.

"'As goes New York, so goes the Union,'" whispered Hobart, quoting an old proverb.

"Maybe that rule will be broken at last," replied Harley, hopefully.

But even Sylvia looked gloomy. There was one thought, as these returns came, in the minds of
them all. It was that the members of the Philipsburg Committee had made good their threat;
their defection had drawn from Grayson thousands of votes in a pivotal state, and if he had
ever had a chance of election this took it from him. 

The professor went on the thought that it was comfortable with his naturalist absolutely nothing,
and he was sitting in a wonderful colorful world of magic trapped in an egg. This Thought
disturbed him so much that he complained last, and cried like a child. Balthasar led him immediately
in the spacious wine cellar where he barrels gleaming and flashing Saw bottles. Better than
in the royal wine cellar, "said Balthasar, he could here to study and explore in the beautiful
nature park in the art.

This will also reassured the professor.

Balthazar's wedding was celebrated at the country home. He - the friends Fabian - Pulcher -
all astonished about Candida's high beauty, about the magical charm that in her dress, was
in her whole being. - It was really a magic, flowing around it, because the fairy Rosabelverde
that, forgetting all the resentment, the wedding as Stiftsfraeulein Rose Schoen attended, she had dressed
and adorned with the most beautiful, most beautiful roses. Now we know but that the suit must
be good, if a fairy it in hands. In addition, Rosabelverde had the lovely bride worships a magnificently
glittering necklace, the one magical effect so voiced that, she had looked around a bit it,
never about little things nestled about a bad band, over a wayward hair accessories, over a spot
in the laundry, or else it could be peevish.

This property, which it the necklace was a special grace and serenity spread all over her face.

The
bridal couple stood in the highest heaven of delight, and - so beautifully acted as the secret
Alpan magic - had still look and word for the heart friends who gathered. Prosper Alpanus and Rosabelverde,
both made sure that the most beautiful miracle of the wedding . Glorified Everywhere sounded
out of bushes and trees sweet sounds of love, while shimmering panels made with the finest
food, loaded with crystal bottles, from those of the finest wine
flowed, which poured through every vein of life 'guests.

The night had fallen, as fire flaming rainbow stretch over the whole park, and you could see shimmering
birds and insects, which swung up and down, and if they Wings, shook out dusted million sparks
in perpetual change all sorts of lovely Formed figures who danced in the air and fluttered in
the bushes and disappeared.

And dyes his stronger the music of the forest, and the night wind blew so, mysterious whispering
sweet scents and exhaling.

Balthasar, Candida, the friends saw the mighty spell Alpan, but Mosch Terpin, half drunk, laughed
loudly and said, after all, no one put differently, than the devil,
Opera decorator and fireworks of the princes.

Cutting Glockentoene resounded. A shiny gold beetle jumped down, sat down Prosper Alpanus's shoulder
and seemed to hum softly in his ear.
Prosper Alpanus rose from his seat and said, seriously and solemnly:
"Beloved Balthasar - Candida lovely - my friends! - It is now time
- Lothos calls -. I have to leave "-

Then he approached the couple
and spoke quietly with them. Both Balthasar and Candida, were very
moved, Prosper seemed all kinds of good lessons to give, he embraced
both with Fervor.

"Complete returns from more than three-fourths of the precincts in the state," read Mr. Dexter,
"show beyond doubt that New Jersey has gone at least 20,000 against Grayson."

"I never did think much of New Jersey, anyhow," said Hobart, sourly.

They laughed, but there was no mirth in the laugh. Tears rose in Sylvia's eyes. Ten minutes
later, Alabama had wheeled into line with New Jersey it was certainly against Grayson and the
news from New York was growing worse. Harley, in his heart, knew that there was no hope of
the state, although he tried to draw encouragement from scattered votes here and there. From
the Middle West the news was mixed, but its general tenor was not favorable. But New England
was still behaving well.

"Our vote in Massachusetts surprises me," said Mr. Heathcote; "we shall more than cut their
majority in half. We shall carry Boston and Worcester, and we are even making gains in the
country districts."

"Almost complete returns from Michigan and Wisconsin show that the former has gone for Grayson
by a substantial majority, and the latter against him by a majority about the same," read Mr.
Dexter.

"Which shows that Michigan is much the finer state of the two," said Hobart.

"One state at least is secure," said Harley.

They heard a tremendous cheer down the street in front of the transparency, and Harley went
to the window. 

That was at last Karolus for the great miracle came, it had a real, wonderful his wonders to awaken
in his heart a desire, a mermaid from the far north, Seekönigin one had to come to Prague to ignite
the lamp in his chest, and Lalanda, Lalanda must have meant it, that his dreams could last into the
day to finally lose his soul at peace. In the brief hours of that Sunday night as a faint Slumber
his eyelids closed, he dreamed of how he was sitting on a distant island and on the moonlight,
waiting, with the zugeschwommen his sea-goddess of the waves on his island come.

Since the waves were still, out of the foam, a second Aphrodite, swung
the light, Lovely on its rocks, holding her harp in his hands, and
have heard their song:> Lalanda, Lalanda. <But he clung to her, her
body was warm from the moonlight, and her bosom, whiter than the moons
rays, rose and fell with her singing.

He said no other Word to her as "Lalanda, 'and yet she knew exactly what he was saying, her
eyes waved to him lovingly and her hands were still in his. And far as the sun from afar sent its
rays across the waves as they gently slipped from the rock into the sea, lit up the red, a water
lily, but she left him, and the smell milder and sweeter than ever from a rose the garden had smelled.
He woke up and kept the water lily in his hands and was in amazed Confusion to think long, long
time whether he was lying on the rock really, why the water lily had come into his hands. But then
he remembered the words of yesterday Lalandas Evening when she had handed him the flower, he pressed
her passionately to his lips, he smelled a hint of their being contrary to the water lily and
happy before he smiled himself.

»Lalanda," he said, almost solemnly. As he noticed his father, who at the head of his Bed and
was surprised and concerned to him, looked the home so late last night had come. Oh, how Karolus
blushed before his eyes, he felt like crying, because he did not know what to say to the father.
But he greeted him, and mild, as in a deep Understand, he spoke of
the shops that had to do today.

Such was because Karolus on and quickly made ready. He went into business and worked diligently
and hard At noon, he would have never for a moment empty, he walked out of the office, when the
to speak two accountants of their Sunday afternoon began, he ran from the store, since the Commission
began to speak of the miracle, and rather helped the porter, in the basement worked. Noon but he
hurried down to the Vltava River, where he knew a gardener, bought from the He had flowers,
roses and lilies, water lilies because no there, and then he went with a beating heart the
Old Town Square. It was just a pause in the minds occurred, but he was allowed to Occur because
it vorwies the flowers, so he entered the vault.

The vault was empty and a pleasant coolness greeted him, and a darkness in which he slowly find
his. Then he looked at the benches along the wall are the two drummers, they had made their drums
on the floor and were now sleeping in their colorful doublets stretched out and snoring, as if they
had little drums in his mouth.

The little man, of him yesterday raised with his nasal voice and disturbed from the first dreams
had came from the next room, he looked at with suspicious Karolus, lurking glances, was an
ugly smile on his lips when he saw the flowers in the hands of youth. He said nothing, he reveled
in the embarrassment of the guest and also Karolus silent for a few Moments, as he had long
hoped to see her and Lalanda with a silent bow the flowers to offer them. For him the memory
floated to a story in mind in of a Prince Erik of the Danes kingdom before a legendary Queen
of the North stand, which Language he did not understand and whose loveliness held him captive:
the bent knees in silence and lowered his head, as it was in history, "as if he did she was knighted
by of love was to receive. <Well bothered him snoring the drummer, now seemed to him the small,
sneering man standing opposite him, like an ugly dwarf, giving access to Cave of its sea goddess
guarded jealous and confused him. Finally, however, he changed his mind and handed him the flowers.

'Are
they for me? "The dwarf asked mockingly.
 Too many big states have gone against
us, and we cannot offset big states with little ones. New York, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin,
Alabama are all in the hostile line."

"Thank you for the truth," she said. "I can stand it, and so can Mr. Grayson."

But Harley was not sure. He felt at times that this ordeal was too great for any man or woman.
When he returned to the room they were announcing news from the Pacific coast.

"We have Washington," said Mr. Dexter; "and Oregon is against us, but California is in doubt."

"But we mean to have California," said Sylvia, and the others smiled.

Good reports came from the Rocky Mountain region, all the states there except Utah going for
Grayson. It had been thought once by both sides that these doubtful states would decide the
election, but with the great upset in the East and Middle West affairs took on another complexion,
and they must make new calculations.

"Has anything been heard from Pennsylvania?" asked Mr. Heathcote.

Several laughed, and the laugh was significant.

"Nothing at all," replied Mr. Dexter, and there was a suggestion of contempt in his tone; "but
why should we want to hear anything? It's sure for the enemy by at least 100,000, and he may
get 200,000. Pennsylvania is one state from which I don't want to hear anything at all."

They laughed again, but, as nothing yet came from Pennsylvania, Harley's curiosity about it
began to rise. "Strange that we do not hear anything," he said; but Mr. Dexter laughed, and
promised to read in an extra loud tone the first Pennsylvania bulletin they should get. The shadow play was over.

While the gay audience laugh and applaud for a moment in their Groups remained, as the foolish
games should be followed by a sequel, had Emilio Riccardo took his arm and pulled him in the midst of
the turmoil inside the company. Torchbearers came running quickly out of the castle, and when
the two stood next to the girls and Emilio suddenly his voice mingled in the conversation as
if he had been present all the time been there got up immediately, a new joy and new laughter, unnoticed
while Riccardo remained. He had been close beside his chosen ones, and inhaled the scent of her
flowers, bare neck. A hot desire him afire and yet he felt a moment sad as a child in a distant place
of the dazzling music listening and suddenly Nostalgia for the familiar words of his mother takes
away. And already the parents were Spada's because to them, kicked and had their son, welcomed,
who presented his now-like friend and recommended him to her favor as brave comrades and dear friend.
And while Riccardo bent over her mother's hand Emilio went on this, the girl known to him To make
the young Countess Francesca and his little sister Maria, in which the Officer bowed, unable
to say a word, because even were the other noble gathered around the two and there were bows
and handshakes, the amount, until finally the whole society into the wide hall in front of
the castle went to the festival with a rich End tables. Riccardo was sitting on the side of
Emilio's mother and was represented by its friendly Encouragement and your reply in the most pleasant
way tied, while the young people below on the board about the shadows and report Emilio talked to
them about the guest had.

Riccardo so that at last, led by his friend in his room, tired of
the extensive Rides and confused by the many people who fell asleep
on his couch, without dreams and without have further thought to his
plans.

VIII

As the bright sun woke the sleeper next morning, he gave himself only the pleasant Feelings towards
a young man, who know the night before a girl or really learned has only seen that delights him and
for him the essence of all beautiful and desirable seems, of which he has ever dreamed of: they
feel it is bathed in bright sunlight, dainty and bright and it seems the most tempting toys
that he liked as a child would like to pose to stroke his chest and. He is looking quite closely
at their lovely form to remember, he is glad that it is smaller than him and that he was to
her pink ear must bend down to her right to say what highly favored. He closed the lids again
in order to stretch like a warm bath comfortably. And if in his thinking dark ideas darken
the image do him friendly, he chases them away angrily, he feels that his longing slowly teaches him
love the desirable nature. But the dark thoughts bales are denser, more impenetrable, and suddenly
tightens the dreamer up, he said to yourself at another man, he is ashamed of himself to himself.

So
it was Riccardo now he had to remember the incident during their ride yesterday, Emilio since
his bold question with the proud words: "a Palma had answered <!.

His cheerful morning image vanished, he remembered the purpose of his visit, his Decision and
the new plan for his revenge.
 It seemed to every one that
the fate of Jimmy Grayson was now hanging in the balance; a feather would tip it this way or
that, and the room sank into an unusual silence, the silence of painful suspense.

There was a long wait and then came a telegram rather thicker than the others. Somehow all
of them felt that this told the story, and the fingers of Mr. Dexter trembled as he tore open
the envelope. He paused, holding it a moment between his fingers, and then, in a quivering
voice, he read:

"Complete returns from the state of Pennsylvania give it to Grayson by 18,000, and he is chosen
President of the United States by a majority of 36 in the electoral college. Our enemies concede
their defeat. We send our heartiest congratulations to Mr. Grayson on his victory, and on the
great campaign he made. Everybody here recognizes that it was Grayson who won for Grayson." So he came up obediently. "How many Kaesfische you got?" screamed at him
now at the Hans.

"No," This was back. "Oho, just look at the" Hans shouted even louder in the Crowd into it, "which
will run quickly to the Kaesfischen, and then he runs away again and has not seen. "" You
stupid This ", called on all sides, and at the same time he jumped the big boys over the head away,
so he had enough to do only once again on the feet to come if he had been knocked over. Sometimes he
rolled toppled with a host down the slopes until a lucky coincidence they were all brought
to the feet. After this tumultuous ride low reached the bottom, ran away all the same, each
after his cows.

This ran on the other side, away from everyone. For now, he still expected a right-wing persecution
of those left behind, far he had run there. He was now to the sump hole and ducked down in there,
so it was no one from the top and bottom . See The bottom hole was a depression in the hillside
where the spring and autumn the Water is often collected and the ground was swampy. But now
the hole was completely dry and a pleasant stay. Because it matured as beautiful, dark red
strawberries in the sun, so beautiful was warm in the well. But the This was everywhere anxious
and alarmed; when he was still in the vicinity of the houses and the Guardian boy. For him, this
could indeed any Moment find again and again to play a trick on him. This shrugged the shy and
anxiety in every note together because he kept thinking: Here comes another one does and I something.
Then he thought again to the quiet spot among the small Tannenbaeumchen up there and to the
whistling of birds, so it took him by force from the ground. He had once there.

With all the forces he ran back up the hill and did not stop again until he was above and now
back was put under the Tannenbaeumchen.

"Harley," said Jimmy Grayson, and there was much feeling in his voice, "you have been the best
friend I ever had, and I am so selfish that I do not want to lose you. Stay with me; be my
secretary. In these later days the office of the President's secretary has grown to be a big
one. I think that you are the best man in the world for it, and if I am re-elected you shall
go into the Cabinet. It was the faithful companions but
are also fond of the patience of the brothers - - Wanka and died in spreading To hear he had
to speak for a moment occur again in the midst, by its own Words and wishes awoke on his hill.


The President-elect turned away, faded into the darkness of his own house, and another figure
took his place. A small, warm hand slipped into Harley's, and he held it fast.

"What was he saying to you?" asked Sylvia. German woodland, owned by Count Otto Eberstein, fifty years
of his powerful and stubborn in his castle sits, but already should be an old man, so many paths
and trails the worry and the suffering has found the palace. He had been a joyful even life Lord,
who was allowed to sit next to the prince and his foam mold just after the Emperor cents in
the dishes when she magnificently to the Diet rode.


THE END

