CHAPTER XIV

THE RIOT

              "Thus with imagin'd wing our swift scene flies,
               In motion of no less celerity
               Than that of thought,"

exclaims the immortal Shakespeare in the chorus of one of his tragedies.

              "Suppose that you have seen
               The well-appointed king
               Embark his royalty; and his brave fleet
               With silken streamers the young Phoebus fanning.
               .  .  .  .  .  .
               .  .  .  behold,
               And follow."

With this poetic movement he traverses time and space, and transports at will the attentive
assembly to the theatre of his sublime scenes.

We shall avail ourselves of the same privilege, though without the same genius.  No more than
he shall we seat ourselves upon the tripod of the unities, but merely casting our eyes upon
Paris and the old dark palace of the Louvre, we will at once pass over the space of two hundred
leagues and the period of two years.

Two years!  what changes may they not have upon men, upon their families, and, above all, in
that great and so troublous family of nations, whose long alliances a single day suffices to
destroy, whose wars are ended by a birth, whose peace is broken by a death!  We ourselves have
beheld kings returning to their dwelling on a spring day; that same day a vessel sailed for
a voyage of two years.  The navigator returned.  The kings were seated upon their thrones;
nothing seemed to have taken place in his absence, and yet God had deprived those kings of
a hundred days of their reign.

But nothing was changed for France in 1642, the epoch to which we turn, except her fears and
her hopes.  The future alone had changed its aspect. Before again beholding our personages,
we must contemplate at large the state of the kingdom.

The powerful unity of the monarchy was rendered still more imposing by the misfortunes of the
neighboring States.  The revolutions in England, and those in Spain and Portugal, rendered
the peace which France enjoyed still more admired.  Strafford and Olivares, overthrown or defeated,
aggrandized the immovable Richelieu.

Six formidable armies, reposing upon their triumphant weapons, served as a rampart to the kingdom.
Those of the north, in league with Sweden, had put the Imperialists to flight, still pursued
by the spirit of Gustavus Adolphus, those on the frontiers of Italy had in Piedmont received
the keys of the towns which had been defended by Prince Thomas; and those which strengthened
the chain of the Pyrenees held in check revolted Catalonia, and chafed before Perpignan, which
they were not allowed to take.  The interior was not happy, but tranquil.  An invisible genius
seemed to have maintained this calm, for the King, mortally sick, languished at St. Germain
with a young favorite; and the Cardinal was, they said, dying at Narbonne.  Some deaths, however,
betrayed that he yet lived; and at intervals, men falling as if struck by a poisonous blast
recalled to mind the invisible power.

St.-Preuil, one of Richelieu's enemies, had just laid his "iron head" upon the scaffold without
shame or fear, as he himself said on mounting it.

Meantime, France seemed to govern herself, for the prince and the minister had been separated
a long time; and of these two sick men, who hated each other, one never had held the reins
of State, the other no longer showed his power--he was no longer named in the public acts;
he appeared no longer in the government, and seemed effaced everywhere; he slept, like the
spider surrounded by his webs.

If some events and some revolutions had taken place during these two years, it must have been
in hearts; it must have been some of those occult changes from which, in monarchies without
firm foundation, terrible overthrows and long and bloody dissensions arise.

To enlighten ourselves, let us glance at the old black building of the unfinished Louvre, and
listen to the conversation of those who inhabited it and those who surrounded it.

It was the month of December; a rigorous winter had afflicted Paris, where the misery and inquietude
of the people were extreme.  However, curiosity was still alive, and they were eager for the
spectacles given by the court.  Their poverty weighed less heavily upon them while they contemplated
the agitations of the rich.  Their tears were less bitter on beholding the struggles of power;
and the blood of the nobles which reddened their streets, and seemed the only blood worthy
of being shed, made them bless their own obscurity.  Already had tumultuous scenes and conspicuous
assassinations proved the monarch's weakness, the absence and approaching end of the minister,
and, as a kind of prologue to the bloody comedy of the Fronde, sharpened the malice and even
fired the passions of the Parisians.  This confusion was not displeasing to them.  Indifferent
to the causes of the quarrels which were abstruse for them, they were not so with regard to
individuals, and already began to regard the party chiefs with affection or hatred, not on
account of the interest which they supposed them to take in the welfare of their class, but
simply because as actors they pleased or displeased.

One night, especially, pistol and gun-shots had been heard frequently in the city; the numerous
patrols of the Swiss and the body-guards had even been attacked, and had met with some barricades
in the tortuous streets of the Ile Notre-Dame; carts chained to the posts, and laden with barrels,
prevented the cavaliers from advancing, and some musket-shots had wounded several men and horses.
However, the town still slept, except the quarter which surrounded the Louvre, which was at
this time inhabited by the Queen and M. le Duc d'Orleans.  There everything announced a nocturnal
expedition of a very serious nature.

It was two o'clock in the morning.  It was freezing, and the darkness was intense, when a numerous
assemblage stopped upon the quay, which was then hardly paved, and slowly and by degrees occupied
the sandy ground that sloped down to the Seine.  This troop was composed of about two hundred
men; they were wrapped in large cloaks, raised by the long Spanish swords which they wore.
Walking to and fro without preserving any order, they seemed to wait for events rather than
to seek them.  Many seated themselves, with their arms folded, upon the loose stones of the
newly begun parapet; they preserved perfect silence.  However, after a few minutes passed in
this manner, a man, who appeared to come out of one of the vaulted doors of the Louvre, approached
slowly, holding a dark- lantern, the light from which he turned upon the features of each individual,
and which he blew out after finding the man he sought among them.  He spoke to him in a whisper,
taking him by the hand:

"Well, Olivier, what did Monsieur le Grand say to you?

     [The master of the horse, Cinq-Mars, was thus named by abbreviation.
     This name will often occur in the course of the recital.]

Does all go well?"

"Yes, I saw him yesterday at Saint-Germain.  The old cat is very ill at Narbonne; he is going
'ad patres'.  But we must manage our affairs shrewdly, for it is not the first time that he
has played the torpid. Have you people enough for this evening, my dear Fontrailles?"

"Be easy; Montresor is coming with a hundred of Monsieur's gentlemen. You will recognize him;
he will be disguised as a master-mason, with a rule in his hand.  But, above all, do not forget
the passwords.  Do you know them all well, you and your friends?"

"Yes, all except the Abbe de Gondi, who has not yet arrived; but 'Dieu me pardonne', I think
he is there himself!  Who the devil would have known him?"

And here a little man without a cassock, dressed as a soldier of the French guards, and wearing
a very black false moustache, slipped between them.  He danced about with a joyous air, and
rubbed his hands.

"Vive Dieu!  all goes on well, my friend.  Fiesco could not do better;" and rising upon his
toes to tap Olivier upon the shoulder, he continued:

"Do you know that for a man who has just quitted the rank of pages, you don't manage badly,
Sire Olivier d'Entraigues?  and you will be among our illustrious men if we find a Plutarch.
All is well organized; you arrive at the very moment, neither too soon nor too late, like a
true party chief.  Fontrailles, this young man will get on, I prophesy.  But we must make haste;
in two hours we shall have some of the archbishops of Paris, my, uncle's parishioners.  I have
instructed them well; and they will cry, 'Long live Monsieur!  Long live the Regency!  No more
of the Cardinal!' like madmen.  They are good devotees, thanks to me, who have stirred them
up.  The King is very ill.  Oh, all goes well, very well! I come from Saint-Germain.  I have
seen our friend Cinq-Mars; he is good, very good, still firm as a rock.  Ah, that is what I
call a man!  How he has played with them with his careless and melancholy air!  He is master
of the court at present.  The King, they say, is going to make him duke and peer.  It is much
talked of; but he still hesitates.  We must decide that by our movement this evening.  The
will of the people!  He must do the will of the people; we will make him hear it.  It will
be the death of Richelieu, you'll see.  It is, above all, hatred of him which is to predominate
in the cries, for that is the essential thing.  That will at last decide our Gaston, who is
still uncertain, is he not?"

"And how can he be anything else?"  said Fontrailles.  "If he were to take a resolution to-day
in our favor it would be unfortunate."

"Why so?"

"Because we should be sure that to-morrow morning he would be against us."

"Never mind," replied the Abbe; "the Queen is firm."

"And she has heart also," said Olivier; "that gives me some hope for Cinq-Mars, who, it seems
to me, has sometimes dared to frown when he looked at her."

"Child that you are, how little do you yet know of the court!  Nothing can sustain him but
the hand of the King, who loves him as a son; and as for the Queen, if her heart beats, it
is for the past and not for the future.  But these trifles are not to the purpose.  Tell me,
dear friend, are you sure of your young Advocate whom I see roaming about there?  Is he all right?"

"Perfectly; he is an excellent Royalist.  He would throw the Cardinal into the river in an
instant.  Besides, it is Fournier of Loudun; that is saying everything."

"Well, well, this is the kind of men we like.  But take care of yourselves, Messieurs; some
one comes from the Rue Saint-Honore."

"Who goes there?"  cried the foremost of the troop to some men who were advancing.  "Royalists
or Cardinalists?"

"Gaston and Le Grand," replied the newcomers, in low tones.

"It is Montresor and Monsieur's people," said Fontrailles.  "We may soon begin."

"Yes, 'par la corbleu'!"  said the newcomer, "for the Cardinalists will pass at three o'clock.
Some one told us so just now."

"Where are they going?"  said Fontrailles.

"There are more than two hundred of them to escort Monsieur de Chavigny, who is going to see
the old cat at Narbonne, they say.  They thought it safer to pass by the Louvre."

"Well, we will give him a velvet paw!"  said the Abbe.

As he finished saying this, a noise of carriages and horses was heard. Several men in cloaks
rolled an enormous stone into the middle of the street.  The foremost cavaliers passed rapidly
through the crowd, pistols in hand, suspecting that something unusual was going on; but the
postilion, who drove the horses of the first carriage, ran upon the stone and fell.

"Whose carriage is this which thus crushes foot-passengers?"  cried the cloakmen, all at once.
"It is tyrannical.  It can be no other than a friend of the Cardinal de la Rochelle."

     [During the long siege of La Rochelle, this name was given to
     Cardinal Richelieu, to ridicule his obstinacy in commanding as
     General-in-Chief, and claiming for himself the merit of taking that
     town.]

"It is one who fears not the friends of the little Le Grand," exclaimed a voice from the open
door, from which a man threw himself upon a horse.

"Drive these Cardinalists into the river!"  cried a shrill, piercing voice.

This was a signal for the pistol-shots which were furiously exchanged on every side, and which
lighted up this tumultuous and sombre scene.  The clashing of swords and trampling of horses
did not prevent the cries from being heard on one side: "Down with the minister!  Long live
the King! Long live Monsieur and Monsieur le Grand!  Down with the red-stockings!" On the other:
"Long live his Eminence!  Long live the great Cardinal! Death to the factious!  Long live the
King!"  For the name of the King presided over every hatred, as over every affection, at this
strange time.

The men on foot had succeeded, however, in placing the two carriages across the quay so as
to make a rampart against Chavigny's horses, and from this, between the wheels, through the
doors and springs, overwhelmed them with pistol-shots, and dismounted many.  The tumult was
frightful, but suddenly the gates of the Louvre were thrown open, and two squadrons of the
body-guard came out at a trot.  Most of them carried torches in their hands to light themselves
and those they were about to attack.  The scene changed.  As the guards reached each of the
men on foot, the latter was seen to stop, remove his hat, make himself known, and name himself;
and the guards withdrew, sometimes saluting him, and sometimes shaking him by the hand.  This
succor to Chavigny's carriages was then almost useless, and only served to augment the confusion.
The body-guards, as if to satisfy their consciences, rushed through the throng of duellists,
saying:

"Gentlemen, gentlemen, be moderate!"

But when two gentlemen had decidedly crossed swords, and were in active conflict, the guard
who beheld them stopped to judge the fight, and sometimes even to favor the one who he thought
was of his opinion, for this body, like all France, had their Royalists and their Cardinalists.

The windows of the Louvre were lighted one after another, and many women's heads were seen
behind the little lozenge-shaped panes, attentively watching the combat.

Numerous Swiss patrols came out with flambeaux.

These soldiers were easily distinguished by an odd uniform.  The right sleeve was striped blue
and red, and the silk stocking of the right leg was red; the left side was striped with blue,
red, and white, and the stocking was white and red.  It had, no doubt, been hoped in the royal
chateau that this foreign troop would disperse the crowd, but they were mistaken.  These impassible
soldiers coldly and exactly executed, without going beyond, the orders they had received, circulating
symmetrically among the armed groups, which they divided for a moment, returning before the
gate with perfect precision, and resuming their ranks as on parade, without informing themselves
whether the enemies among whom they had passed had rejoined or not.

But the noise, for a moment appeased, became general by reason of personal disputes.  In every
direction challenges, insults, and imprecations were heard.  It seemed as if nothing but the
destruction of one of the two parties could put an end to the combat, when loud cries, or rather
frightful howls, raised the tumult to its highest pitch.  The Abbe de Gondi, dragging a cavalier
by his cloak to pull him down, exclaimed:

