She would declare her intention of choosing for herself. She knew that she was, or would be,
very rich,--(her father used to tell her so at every turn)--she was a "fine catch." The sons
of the distinguished families of the country were already courting her, setting a wide white
net of flattery and cunning snares to catch the little silver fish. But it looked as though
the fish would elude them all: for Antoinette saw all their tricks, and laughed at them: she
was quite ready to be caught, but not against her will. She had already made up her mind to marry.

The noble family of the district--(there is generally one noble family to every district, claiming
descent from the ancient lords of the province, though generally its origin goes no farther
back than some purchaser of the national estates, some commissary of the eighteenth century,
or some Napoleonic army-contractor)--the Bonnivets, who lived some few miles away from the
town, in a castle with tall towers with gleaming slates, surrounded by vast woods, in which
were innumerable fish-ponds, themselves proposed for the hand of Mademoiselle Jeannin. Young
Bonnivet was very assiduous in his courtship of Antoinette. He was a handsome boy, rather stout
and heavy for his age, who did nothing but hunt and eat, and drink and sleep: he could ride,
dance, had charming manners, and was not more stupid than other young men. He would ride into
the town, or drive in his buggy and call on the banker, on some business pretext: and sometimes
he would bring some game or a bouquet of flowers for the ladies. He would seize the opportunity
to pay court to Antoinette. They would walk in the garden together. He would pay her lumbering
compliments, and pull his mustache, and make jokes, and make his spurs clatter on the tiles
of the terrace. Antoinette thought him charming. Her pride and her affections were both tickled.
She would swim in those first sweet hours of young love. Olivier detested the young squire,
because he was strong, heavy, brutal, had a loud laugh, and hands that gripped like a vise,
and a disdainful trick of always calling him: "Boy ..." and pinching his cheeks. He detested
him above all,--without knowing it,--because he dared to love his sister: ... his sister, his
very own, his, and she could not belong to any one else!...

       *       *       *       *       *

Disaster came. Sooner or later there must come a crisis in the lives of the old middle-class
families which for centuries have vegetated in the same little corner of the earth, and have
sucked it dry. They sleep in peace, and think themselves as eternal as the earth that bears
them. But the soil beneath them is dry and dead, their roots are sapped: just the blow of an
ax, and down they come. Then they talk of accidents and unforeseen misfortunes. There would
have been no accident if there had been more strength in the tree: or, at least, would have
been no more than a sudden storm, wrenching away a few branches, but never shaking the tree.

Antoine Jeannin was weak, trustful, and a little vain. He loved to throw dust in people's eyes,
and easily confounded "seeming" and "being." He spent recklessly, though his extravagance,
moderated by fits of remorse as the result of the age-old habit of economy--(he would fling
away pounds, and haggle over a farthing)--never seriously impaired his capital. He was not
very cautious in business either. He never refused to lend money to his friends: and it was
not difficult to be a friend of his. He did not always trouble to ask for a receipt: he kept
a rough account of what was owing to him, and never asked for payment before it was offered
him. He believed in the good faith of other men, and supposed that they would believe in his
own. He was much more timid than his jocular, easy-going manners led people to suppose. He
would never have dared to refuse certain importunate borrowers, or to let his doubts of their
solvency appear. That arose from a mixture of kindness and pusillanimity. He did not wish to
offend anybody, and he was afraid of being insulted. So he was always giving way. And, by way
of carrying it off, he would lend with alacrity, as though his debtors were doing him a service
by borrowing his money. And he was not far from believing it; his vanity and optimism had no
difficulty in persuading him that every business he touched was good business.

Such ways of dealing were not calculated to alienate the sympathies of his debtors: he was
adored by the peasants, who knew that they could always count on his good nature, and never
hesitated to resort to him. But the gratitude of men--even of honest men--is a fruit that must
be gathered in good season. If it is left too long upon the tree, it quickly rots. After a
few months M. Jeannin's debtors would begin to think that his assistance was their right: and
they were even inclined to think that, as M. Jeannin had been so glad to help them, it must
have been to his interest to do so. The best of them considered themselves discharged--if not
of the debt, at least of the obligation of gratitude--by the present of a hare they had killed,
or a basket of eggs from their fowlyard, which they would come and offer to the banker on the
day of the great fair of the year.

As hitherto only small sums had been lent, and M. Jeannin had only had to do with fairly honest
people, there were no very awkward consequences: the loss of money--of which the banker never
breathed a word to a soul--was very small. But it was a very different matter when M. Jeannin
knocked up against a certain company promoter who was launching a great industrial concern,
and had got wind of the banker's easy-going ways and financial resources. This gentleman, who
wore the ribbon of the Legion of Honor, and pretended to be intimate with two or three Ministers,
an Archbishop, an assortment of senators, and various celebrities of the literary and financial
world, and to be in touch with an omnipotent newspaper, had a very imposing manner, and most
adroitly assumed the authoritative and familiar tone most calculated to impress his man. By
way of introduction and recommendation, with a clumsiness which would have aroused the suspicions
of a quicker man than M. Jeannin, he produced certain ordinary complimentary letters which
he had received from the illustrious persons of his acquaintance, asking him to dinner, or
thanking him for some invitation they had received: for it is well known that the French are
never niggardly with such epistolary small change, nor particularly chary of shaking hands
with, and accepting invitations from, an individual whom they have only known for an hour--provided
only that he amuses them and does not ask them for money: and even as regards that, there are
many who would not refuse to lend their new friend money so long as others did the same. And
it would be a poor lookout for a clever man bent on relieving his neighbor of his superfluous
money if he could not find a sheep who could be induced to jump the fence so that all the rest
would follow.--If other sheep had not taken the fence before him, M. Jeannin would have been
the first. He was of the woolly tribe which is made to be fleeced. He was seduced by his visitor's
exalted connections, his fluency and his trick of flattery, and also by the first fine results
of his advice. He only risked a little at first, and won: then he risked much: finally he risked
all: not only his own money, but that of his clients as well. He did not tell them about it:
he was sure he would win: he wanted to overwhelm them with the great thing he had done for them.

The venture collapsed. He heard of it indirectly through one of his Parisian correspondents
who happened to mention the new crash, without ever dreaming that Jeannin was one of the victims:
for the banker had not said a word to anybody: with incredible irresponsibility, he had not
taken the trouble--even avoided--asking the advice of men who were in a position to give him
information: he had done the whole thing secretly, in the infatuated belief in his infallible
common sense, and he had been satisfied with the vaguest knowledge of what he was doing. There
are such moments of aberration in life: moments, it would seem, when a man is marked out for
ruin, when he is fearful lest any one should come to his aid, when he avoids all advice that
might save him, hides away, and rushes headlong, madly, shaking himself free for the fatal plunge.

M. Jeannin rushed to the station, utterly sick at heart, and took train for Paris. He went
to look for his man. He flattered himself with the hope that the news might be false, or, at
least, exaggerated. Naturally he did not find the fellow, and received further news of the
collapse, which was as complete as possible. He returned distracted, and said nothing. No one
had any idea of it yet. He tried to gain a few weeks, a few days. In his incurable optimism,
he tried hard to believe that he would find a way to make good, if not his own losses, at least
those of his clients. He tried various expedients, with a clumsy haste which would have removed
any chance of succeeding that he might have had. He tried to borrow, but was everywhere refused.
In his despair, he staked the little he had left on wildly speculative ventures, and lost it
all. From that moment there was a complete change in his character. He relapsed into an alarming
state of terror: still he said nothing: but he was bitter, violent, harsh, horribly sad. But
still, when he was with strangers, he affected his old gaiety; but no one could fail to see
the change in him: it was attributed to his health. With his family he was less guarded: and
they saw at once that he was concealing some serious trouble. They hardly knew him. Sometimes
he would burst into a room and ransack a desk, flinging all the papers higgledy-piggledy on
to the floor, and flying into a frenzy because he could not find what he was looking for, or
because some one offered to help him. Then he would stand stock still in the middle of it all,
and when they asked him what he was looking for, he did not know himself. He seemed to have
lost all interest in his family: or he would kiss them with tears in his eyes. He could not
sleep. He could not eat.

Madame Jeannin saw that they were on the eve of a catastrophe: but she had never taken any
part in her husband's affairs, and did not understand them. She questioned him: he repulsed
her brutally: and, hurt in her pride, she did not persist. But she trembled, without knowing why.

The children could have no suspicion of the impending disaster. Antoinette, no doubt, was too
intelligent not, like her mother, to have a presentiment of some misfortune: but she was absorbed
in the delight of her budding love: she refused to think of unpleasant things: she persuaded
herself that the clouds would pass--or that it would be time enough to see them when it was
impossible to disregard them.

Of the three, the boy Olivier was perhaps the nearest to understanding what was going on in
his unhappy father's soul. He felt that his father was suffering, and he suffered with him
in secret. But he dared not say anything: naturally he could do nothing, and he was helpless.
And then he, too, thrust back the thought of sad things, the nature of which he could not grasp:
like his mother and sister, he was superstitiously inclined to believe that perhaps misfortune,
the approach of which he did not wish to see, would not come. Those poor wretches who feel
the imminence of danger do readily play the ostrich: they hide their heads behind a stone,
and pretend that Misfortune will not see them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Disturbing rumors began to fly. It was said that the bank's credit was impaired. In vain did
the banker assure his clients that it was perfectly all right, on one pretext or another the
more suspicious of them demanded their money. M. Jeannin felt that he was lost: he defended
himself desperately, assuming a tone of indignation, and complaining loftily and bitterly of
their suspicions of himself: he even went so far as to be violent and angry with some of his
old clients, but that only let him down finally. Demands for payment came in a rush. On his
beam-ends, at bay, he completely lost his head. He went away for a few days to gamble with
his last few banknotes at a neighboring watering-place, was cleaned out in a quarter of an
hour, and returned home. His sudden departure set the little town by the ears, and it was said
that he had cleared out: and Madame Jeannin had had great difficulty in coping with the wild,
anxious inquiries of the people: she begged them to be patient, and swore that her husband
would return. They did not believe her, although they would have been only too glad to do so.
And so, when it was known that he had returned, there was a general sigh of relief: there were
many who almost believed that their fears had been baseless, and that the Jeannins were much
too shrewd not to get out of a hole by admitting that they had fallen into it. The banker's
attitude confirmed that impression. Now that he no longer had any doubt as to what he must
do, he seemed to be weary, but quite calm. He chatted quietly to a few friends whom he met
in the station road on his way home, talking about the drought and the country not having had
any water for weeks, and the superb condition of the vines, and the fall of the Ministry, announced
in the evening papers.

When he reached home he pretended not to notice his wife's excitement, who had run to meet
him when she heard him come in, and told him volubly and confusedly what had happened during
his absence. She scanned his features to try and see whether he had succeeded in averting the
unknown danger: but, from pride, she did not ask him anything: she was waiting for him to speak
first. But he did not say a word about the thing that was tormenting them both. He silently
disregarded her desire to confide in him, and to get him to confide in her. He spoke of the
heat, and of how tired he was, and complained of a racking headache: and they sat down to dinner
as usual.

He talked little, and was dull, lost in thought, and his brows were knit: he drummed with his
fingers on the table: he forced himself to eat, knowing that they were watching him, and looked
with vague, unseeing eyes at his children, who were intimidated by the silence, and at his
wife, who sat stiffly nursing her injured vanity, and, without looking at him, marking his
every movement. Towards the end of dinner he seemed to wake up: he tried to talk to Antoinette
and Olivier, and asked them what they had been doing during his absence: but he did not listen
to their replies, and heard only the sound of their voices: and although he was staring at
them, his gaze was elsewhere. Olivier felt it: he stopped in the middle of his prattle, and
had no desire to go on. But, after a moment's embarrassment, Antoinette recovered her gaiety:
she chattered merrily, like a magpie, laid her head on her father's shoulder, or tugged his
sleeve to make him listen to what she was saying. M. Jeannin said nothing: his eyes wandered
from Antoinette to Olivier, and the crease in his forehead grew deeper and deeper. In the middle
of one of his daughter's stories he could bear it no longer, and got up and went and looked
out of the window to conceal his emotion. The children folded their napkins, and got up too.
Madame Jeannin told them to go and play in the garden: in a moment or two they could be heard
chasing each other down the paths and screaming. Madame Jeannin looked at her husband, whose
back was turned towards her, and she walked round the table as though to arrange something.
Suddenly she went up to him, and, in a voice hushed by her fear of being overheard by the servants
and by the agony that was in her, she said:

"Tell me, Antoine, what is the matter? There is something the matter ... You are hiding something
... Has something dreadful happened? Are you ill?"

But once more M. Jeannin put her off, and shrugged his shoulders, and said harshly:

"No! No, I tell you! Let me be!"

She was angry, and went away: in her fury, she declared that, no matter what happened to her
husband, she would not bother about it any more.

M. Jeannin went down into the garden. Antoinette was still larking about, and tugging at her
brother to make him run. But the boy declared suddenly that he was not going to play any more:
and he leaned against the wall of the terrace a few yards away from his father. Antoinette
tried to go on teasing him: but he drove her away and sulked: then she called him names: and
when she found she could get no more fun out of him, she went in and began to play the piano.

M. Jeannin and Olivier were left alone.

"What's the matter with you, boy? Why won't you play?" asked the father gently.

"I'm tired, father."

"Well, let us sit here on this seat for a little."

They sat down. It was a lovely September night. A dark, clear sky. The sweet scent of the petunias
was mingled with the stale and rather unwholesome smell of the canal sleeping darkly below
the terrace wall. Great moths, pale and sphinx-like, fluttered about the flowers, with a little
whirring sound. The even voices of the neighbors sitting at their doors on the other side of
the canal rang through the silent air. In the house Antoinette was playing a florid Italian
cavatina. M. Jeannin held Olivier's hand in his. He was smoking. Through the darkness behind
which his father's face was slowly disappearing the boy could see the red glow of the pipe,
which gleamed, died away, gleamed again, and finally went out. Neither spoke. Then Olivier
asked the names of the stars. M. Jeannin, like almost all men of his class, knew nothing of
the things of Nature, and could not tell him the names of any save the great constellations,
which are known to everyone: but he pretended that the boy was asking their names, and told
him. Olivier made no objection: it always pleased him to hear their beautiful mysterious names,
and to repeat them in a whisper. Besides, he was not so much wanting to know their names as
instinctively to come closer to his father. They said nothing more. Olivier looked at the stars,
with his head thrown back and his mouth open: he was lost in drowsy thoughts: he could feel
through all his veins the warmth of his father's hand. Suddenly the hand began to tremble.
That seemed funny to Olivier, and he laughed and said sleepily:

"Oh, how your hand is trembling, father!"

M. Jeannin removed his hand.

After a moment Olivier, still busy with his own thoughts, said:

"Are you tired, too, father?"

"Yes, my boy."

The boy replied affectionately:

"You must not tire yourself out so much, father."

M. Jeannin drew Olivier towards him, and held him to his breast and murmured:

"My poor boy!..."

But already Olivier's thoughts had flown off on another tack. The church clock chimed eight
o'clock. He broke away, and said:

"I'm going to read."

On Thursdays he was allowed to read for an hour after dinner, until bedtime: it was his greatest
joy: and nothing in the world could induce him to sacrifice a minute of it.

M. Jeannin let him go. He walked up and down the terrace for a little in the dark. Then he,
too, went in.

In the room his wife and the two children were sitting round the lamp. Antoinette was sewing
a ribbon on to a blouse, talking and humming the while, to Olivier's obvious discomfort, for
he was stopping his ears with his fists so as not to hear, while he pored over his book with
knitted brows, and his elbows on the table. Madame Jeannin was mending stockings and talking
to the old nurse, who was standing by her side and giving an account of her day's expenditure,
and seizing the opportunity for a little gossip: she always had some amusing tale to tell in
her extraordinary lingo, which used to make them roar with laughter, while Antoinette would
try to imitate her. M. Jeannin watched them silently. No one noticed him. He wavered for a
moment, sat down, took up a book, opened it at random, shut it again, got up: he could not
sit still. He lit a candle and said good-night. He went up to the children and kissed them
fondly: they returned his kiss absently without looking up at him,--Antoinette being absorbed
in her work, and Olivier in his book. Olivier did not even take his hands from his ears, and
grunted "Good-night," and went on reading:--(when he was reading even if one of his family
had fallen into the fire, he would not have looked up).--M. Jeannin left the room. He lingered
in the next room, for a moment. His wife came out soon, the old nurse having gone to arrange
the linen-cupboard. She pretended not to see him. He hesitated, then came up to her, and said:

"I beg your pardon. I was rather rude just now."

She longed to say to him:

"My dear, my dear, that is nothing: but, tell me, what is the matter with you? Tell me, what
is hurting you so?"

But she jumped at the opportunity of taking her revenge, and said:

"Let me be! You have been behaving odiously. You treat me worse than you would a servant."

And she went on in that strain, setting forth all her grievances volubly, shrilly, rancorously.

He raised his hands wearily, smiled bitterly, and left her.

       *       *       *       *       *

No one heard the report of the revolver. Only, next day, when it was known what had happened,
a few of the neighbors remembered that, in the middle of the night, when the streets were quiet,
they had noticed a sharp noise like the cracking of a whip. They did not pay any attention
to it. The silence of the night fell once more upon the town, wrapping both living and dead
about with its mystery.

Madame Jeannin was asleep, but woke up an hour or two later. Not seeing her husband by her
side she got up and went anxiously through all the rooms, and downstairs to the offices of
the bank, which were in an annex of the house: and there, sitting in his chair in his office,
she found M. Jeannin huddled forward on his desk in a pool of blood, which was still dripping
down on to the floor. She gave a scream, dropped her candle, and fainted. She was heard in
the house. The servants came running, picked her up, took care of her, and laid the body of
M. Jeannin on a bed. The door of the children's room was locked. Antoinette was sleeping happily.
Olivier heard the sound of voices and footsteps: he wanted to go and see what it was all about:
but he was afraid of waking his sister, and presently he went to sleep again.

Next morning the news was all over the town before they knew anything. Their old nurse came
sobbing and told them. Their mother was incapable of thinking of anything: her condition was
critical. The two children were left alone in the presence of death. At first they were more
fearful than sorrowful. And they were not allowed to weep in peace. The cruel legal formalities
were begun the first thing in the morning. Antoinette hid away in her room, and with all the
force of her youthful egoism clung to the only idea which could help her to thrust back the
horror of the overwhelming reality: the thought of her lover: all day long she waited for him
to come. Never had he been more ardent than the last time she had seen him, and she had no
doubt that, as soon as he heard of the catastrophe, he would hasten to share her grief.--But
nobody came, or wrote, or gave one sign of sympathy. As soon as the news of the suicide was
out, people who had intrusted their money to the banker rushed to the Jeannins' house, forced
their way in, and, with merciless cruelty, stormed and screamed at the widow and the two children.

In a few days they were faced with their utter ruin: the loss of a dear one, the loss of their
fortune, their position, their public esteem, and the desertion of their friends. A total wreck.
Nothing was left to provide for them. They had all three an uncompromising feeling for moral
purity, which made their suffering all the greater from the dishonor of which they were innocent.
Of the three Antoinette was the most distraught by their sorrow, because she had never really
known suffering. Madame Jeannin and Olivier, though they were racked by it, were more inured
to it. Instinctively pessimistic, they were overwhelmed but not surprised. The idea of death
had always been a refuge to them, as it was now, more than ever: they longed for death. It
is pitiful to be so resigned, but not so terrible as the revolt of a young creature, confident
and happy, loving every moment of her life, who suddenly finds herself face to face with such
unfathomable, irremediable sorrow, and death which is horrible to her....

Antoinette discovered the ugliness of the world in a flash. Her eyes were opened: she saw life
and human beings as they are: she judged her father, her mother, and her brother. While Olivier
and Madame Jeannin wept together, in her grief she drew into herself. Desperately she pondered
the past, the present, and the future: and she saw that there was nothing left for her, no
hope, nothing to support her: she could count on no one.

The funeral took place, grimly, shamefully. The Church refused to receive the body of the suicide.
The widow and orphans were deserted by the cowardice of their former friends. One or two of
them came for a moment: and their embarrassment was even harder to bear than the absence of
the rest. They seemed to make a favor of it, and their silence was big with reproach and pitying
contempt. It was even worse with their relations: not only did they receive no single word
of sympathy, but they were visited with bitter reproaches. The banker's suicide, far from removing
ill-feeling, seemed to be hardly less criminal than his failure. Respectable people cannot
forgive those who kill themselves. It seems to them monstrous that a man should prefer death
to life with dishonor: and they would fain call down all the rigor of the law on him who seems
to say:

"There is no misery so great as that of living with you."

The greatest cowards are not the least ready to accuse him of cowardice. And when, in addition,
the suicide, by ending his life, touches their interests and their revenge, they lose all control.--Not
for one moment did they think of all that the wretched Jeannin must have suffered to come to
it. They would have had him suffer a thousand times more. And as he had escaped them, they
transferred their fury to his family. They did not admit it to themselves: for they knew they
were unjust. But they did it all the same, for they needed a victim.

Madame Jeannin, who seemed to be able to do nothing but weep and moan, recovered her energy
when her husband was attacked. She discovered then how much she had loved him: and she and
her two children, who had no idea what would become of them in the future, all agreed to renounce
their claim to her dowry, and to their own personal estate, in order, as far as possible, to
meet M. Jeannin's debts. And, since it had become impossible for them to stay in the little
town, they decided to go to Paris.

       *       *       *       *       *

Their departure was something in the nature of a flight.

On the evening of the day before,--(a melancholy evening towards the end of September: the
fields were disappearing behind the white veil of mist, out of which, as they walked along
the road, on either side the fantastic shapes of the dripping, shivering bushes started forth,
looking like the plants in an aquarium),--they went together to say farewell to the grave where
he lay. They all three knelt on the narrow curbstone which surrounded the freshly turned patch
of earth. They wept in silence; Olivier sobbed. Madame Jeannin mopped her eyes mournfully.
She augmented her grief and tortured herself by saying to herself over and over again the words
she had spoken to her husband the last time she had seen him alive. Olivier thought of that
last conversation on the seat on the terrace. Antoinette wondered dreamily what would become
of them. None of them ever dreamed of reproaching the wretched man who had dragged them down
in his own ruin. But Antoinette thought:

"Ah! dear father, how we shall suffer!"

The mist grew more dense, the cold damp pierced through to their bones. But Madame Jeannin
could not bring herself to go. Antoinette saw that Olivier was shivering and she said to her
mother:

"I am cold."

They got up. Just as they were going, Madame Jeannin turned once more towards the grave, gazed
at it for the last time, and said:

"My dear, my dear!"

They left the cemetery as night was falling. Antoinette held Olivier's icy hand in hers.

They went back to the old house. It was their last night under the roof-tree where they had
always slept, where their lives and the lives of their parents had been lived--the walls, the
hearth, the little patch of earth were so indissolubly linked with the family's joys and sorrows,
as almost themselves to be part of the family, part of their life, which they could only leave
to die.

Their boxes were packed. They were to take the first train next day before the shops were opened:
they wanted to escape their neighbors' curiosity and malicious remarks.--They longed to cling
to each other and stay together: but they went instinctively to their rooms and stayed there:
there they remained standing, never moving, not even taking off their hats and cloaks, touching
the walls, the furniture, all the things they were going to leave, pressing their faces against
the window-panes, trying to take away with them in memory the contact of the things they loved.
At last they made an effort to shake free from the absorption of their sorrowful thoughts and
met in Madame Jeannin's room,--the family room, with a great recess at the back, where, in
old days, they always used to foregather in the evening, after dinner, when there were no visitors.
In old days!... How far off they seemed now!--They sat silently round the meager fire: then
they all knelt by the bed and said their prayers: and they went to bed very early, for they
had to be up before dawn. But it was long before they slept.

About four o'clock in the morning Madame Jeannin, who had looked at her watch every hour or
so to see whether it was not time to get ready, lit her candle and got up. Antoinette, who
had hardly slept at all, heard her and got up too. Olivier was fast asleep. Madame Jeannin
gazed at him tenderly and could not bring herself to wake him. She stole away on tiptoe and
said to Antoinette:

"Don't make any noise: let the poor boy enjoy his last moments here!"

The two women dressed and finished their packing. About the house hovered the profound silence
of the cold night, such a night as makes all living things, men and beasts, cower away for
warmth into the depths of sleep. Antoinette's teeth were chattering: she was frozen body and soul.

The front door creaked upon the frozen air. The old nurse, who had the key of the house, came
for the last time to serve her employers. She was short and fat, short-winded, and slow-moving
from her portliness, but she was remarkably active for her age: she appeared with her jolly
face muffled up, and her nose was red, and her eyes were wet with tears. She was heart-broken
when she saw that Madame Jeannin had got up without waiting for her, and had herself lit the
kitchen fire.--Olivier woke up as she came in. His first impulse was to close his eyes, turn
over, and go to sleep again. Antoinette came and laid her hand gently on her brother's shoulder,
and she said in a low voice:

"Olivier, dear, it is time to get up."

He sighed, opened his eyes, saw his sister's face leaning over him: she smiled sadly and caressed
his face with her hand. She said:

"Come!"

He got up.

They crept out of the house, noiselessly, like thieves. They all had parcels in their hands.
The old nurse went in front of them trundling their boxes in a wheelbarrow. They left behind
almost all their possessions, and took away, so to speak, only what they had on their backs
and a change of clothes. A few things for remembrance were to be sent after them by goods-train:
a few books, portraits, the old grandfather's clock, whose tick-tock seemed to them to be the
beating of their hearts.--The air was keen. No one was stirring in the town: the shutters were
closed and the streets empty. They said nothing: only the old servant spoke. Madame Jeannin
was striving to fix in her memory all the images which told her of all her past life.

At the station, out of vanity, Madame Jeannin took second-class tickets, although she had vowed
to travel third: but she had not the courage to face the humiliation in the presence of the
railway clerks who knew her. She hurried into an empty compartment with her two children and
shut the door. Hiding behind the curtains they trembled lest they should see any one they knew.
But no one appeared: the town was hardly awake by the time they left: the train was empty:
there were only a few peasants traveling by it, and some oxen, who hung their heads out of
their trucks and bellowed mournfully. After a long wait the engine gave a slow whistle, and
the train moved on through the mist. The fugitives drew the curtains and pressed their faces
against the windows to take a last long look at the little town, with its Gothic tower just
appearing through the mist, and the hill covered with stubby fields, and the meadows white
and steaming with the frost; already it was a distant dream-landscape, fading out of existence.
And when the train turned a bend and passed into a cutting, and they could no longer see it,
and were sure there was no one to see them, they gave way to their emotion. With her handkerchief
pressed to her lips Madame Jeannin sobbed. Olivier flung himself into her arms and with his
head on her knees he covered her hands with tears and kisses. Antoinette sat at the other end
of the compartment and looked out of the window and wept in silence. They did not all weep
for the same reason. Madame Jeannin and Olivier were thinking only of what they had left behind
them. Antoinette was thinking rather of what they were going to meet: she was angry with herself:
she, too, would gladly have been absorbed in her memories....--She was right to think of the
future: she had a truer vision of the world than her mother and brother. They were weaving
dreams about Paris. Antoinette herself had little notion of what awaited them there. They had
never been there. Madame Jeannin imagined that, though their position would be sad enough,
there would be no reason for anxiety. She had a sister in Paris, the wife of a wealthy magistrate:
and she counted on her assistance. She was convinced also that with the education her children
had received and their natural gifts, which, like all mothers, she overestimated, they would
have no difficulty in earning an honest living.

       *       *       *       *       *

Their first impressions were gloomy enough. As they left the station they were bewildered by
the jostling crowd of people in the luggage-room and the confused uproar of the carriages outside.
It was raining. They could not find a cab, and had to walk a long way with their arms aching
with their heavy parcels, so that they had to stop every now and then in the middle of the
street at the risk of being run over or splashed by the carriages. They could not make a single
driver pay any attention to them. At last they managed to stop a man who was driving an old
and disgustingly dirty barouche. As they were handing in the parcels they let a bundle of rugs
fall into the mud. The porter who carried the trunk and the cabman traded on their ignorance,
and made them pay double. Madame Jeannin gave the address of one of those second-rate expensive
hotels patronized by provincials who go on going to them, in spite of their discomfort, because
their grandfathers went to them thirty years ago. They were fleeced there. They were told that
the hotel was full, and they were accommodated with one small room for which they were charged
the price of three. For dinner they tried to economize by avoiding the table d'hote: they ordered
a modest meal, which cost them just as much and left them famishing. Their illusions concerning
Paris had come toppling down as soon as they arrived. And, during that first night in the hotel,
when they were squeezed into one little, ill-ventilated room, they could not sleep: they were
hot and cold by turns, and could not breathe, and started at every footstep in the corridor,
and the banging of the doors, and the furious ringing of the electric bells: and their heads
throbbed with the incessant roar of the carriages and heavy drays: and altogether they felt
terrified of the monstrous city into which they had plunged to their utter bewilderment.

Next day Madame Jeannin went to see her sister, who lived in a luxurious flat in the Boulevard
Hausmann. She hoped, though she did not say so, that they would be invited to stay there until
they had found their feet. The welcome she received was enough to undeceive her. The Poyet-Delormes
were furious at their relative's failure: especially Madame Delorme, who was afraid that it
would be set against her, and might injure her husband's career, and she thought it shameless
of the ruined family to come and cling to them, and compromise them even more. The magistrate
was of the same opinion: but he was a kindly man: he would have been more inclined to help,
but for his wife's intervention--to which he knuckled under. Madame Poyet-Delorme received
her sister with icy coldness. It cut Madame Jeannin to the heart: but she swallowed down her
pride: she hinted at the difficulty of her position and the assistance she hoped to receive
from the Poyets. Her sister pretended not to understand, and did not even ask her to stay to
dinner: they were ceremoniously invited to dine at the end of the week. The invitation did
not come from Madame Poyet either, but from the magistrate, who was a little put out at his
wife's treatment of her sister, and tried to make amends for her curtness: he posed as the
good-natured man: but it was obvious that it did not come easily to him and that he was really
very selfish. The unhappy Jeannins returned to their hotel without daring to say what they
thought of their first visit.

