You ask me of the two reviews [Footnote: Of "Childe Harold" in the Quarterly and Blackwood.]--I
will tell you. Scott's is the review of one poet on another--his friend; Wilson's, the review
of a poet too, on another--his Idol; for he likes me better than he chooses to avow to the
public with all his eulogy. I speak judging only from the article, for I don't know him personally.

Here is a long letter--can you read it?

Yours ever,

B.

In the course of September 1818 Lord Byron communicated to Mr. Moore that he had finished the
first canto of a poem in the style and manner of "Beppo." "It is called," he said, "'Don Juan,'
and is meant to be a little quietly facetious upon everything; but," he added, "I doubt whether
it is not--at least so far as it has yet gone--too free for these very modest days." In January
1819 Lord Byron requested Mr. Murray to print for private distribution fifty copies of "Don
Juan." Mr. Murray urged him to occupy himself with some great work worthy of his reputation.
"This you have promised to Gifford long ago, and to Hobhouse and Kinnaird since." Lord Byron,
however, continued to write out his "Don Juan," and sent the second canto in April 1819, together
with the "Letter of Julia," to be inserted in the first canto.

Mr. Murray, in acknowledging the receipt of the first and second cantos, was not so congratulatory
as he had formerly been. The verses contained, no doubt, some of the author's finest poetry,
but he had some objections to suggest. "I think," he said, "you may modify or substitute other
words for the lines on Romilly, whose death should save him." But Byron entertained an extreme
detestation for Romilly, because, he said, he had been "one of my assassins," and had sacrificed
him on "his legal altar"; and the verse [Footnote: St. 16, First Canto.] was allowed to stand
over. "Your history," wrote Murray, "of the plan of the progress of 'Don Juan' is very entertaining,
but I am clear for sending him to hell, because he may favour us with a description of some
of the characters whom he finds there." Mr. Murray suggested the removal of some offensive
words in Canto II. "These," he said, "ladies may not read; the Shipwreck is a little too particular,
and out of proportion to the rest of the picture. But if you do anything it must be done with
extreme caution; think of the effects of such seductive poetry! It probably surpasses in talent
anything that you ever wrote. Tell me if you think seriously of completing this work, or if
you have sketched the story. I am very sorry to have occasioned you the trouble of writing
again the "Letter of Julia"; but you are always very forgiving in such cases." The lines in
which the objectionable words appeared were obliterated by Lord Byron.

From the following letter we see that Mr. Murray continued his remonstrances:

John Murray to Lord Byron.

May 3, 1819.

"I find that 'Julia's Letter' has been safely received, and is with the printer. The whole
remainder of the second canto will be sent by Friday's post. The inquiries after its appearance
are not a few. Pray use your most tasteful discretion so as to wrap up or leave out certain
approximations to indelicacy."

Mr. Douglas Kinnaird, who was entrusted with the business portion of this transaction, wrote
to Mr. Murray:

Mr. Douglas Kinnaird to John Murray.

June 7, 1819.

My Dear Sir,

