 By degrees he was more attracted
by the charms of the stranger's conversation than repelled by the dread of his dangerous character
as a heretic, and Halbert had called him father more than once, ere the turrets of Avenel Castle
came in view.

The situation of this ancient fortress was remarkable. It occupied a small rocky islet in a
mountain lake, or tarn, as such a piece of water is called in Westmoreland. The lake might
be about a mile in circumference, surrounded by hills of considerable height, which, except
where old trees and brushwood occupied the ravines that divided them from each other, were
bare and heathy. The surprise of the spectator was chiefly excited by finding a piece of water
situated in that high and mountainous region, and the landscape around had features which might
rather be termed wild, than either romantic or sublime; yet the scene was not without its charms.
Under the burning sun of summer, the clear azure of the deep unruffled lake refreshed the eye,
and impressed the mind with a pleasing feeling of deep solitude. In winter, when the snow lay
on the mountains around, these dazzling masses appeared to ascend far beyond their wonted and
natural height, while the lake, which stretched beneath, and filled their bosom with all its
frozen waves, lay like the surface of a darkened and broken mirror around the black and rocky
islet, and the walls of the gray castle with which it was crowned.

As the castle occupied, either with its principal buildings, or with its flanking and outward
walls, every projecting point of rock, which served as its site, it seemed as completely surrounded
by water as the nest of a wild swan, save where a narrow causeway extended betwixt the islet
and the shore. But the fortress was larger in appearance than in reality; and of the buildings
which it actually contained, many had become ruinous and uninhabitable. In the times of the
grandeur of the Avenel family, these had been occupied by a considerable garrison of followers
and retainers, but they were now in a great measure deserted; and Julian Avenel would probably
have fixed his habitation in a residence better suited to his diminished fortunes, had it not
been for the great security which the situation of the old castle afforded to a man of his
precarious and perilous mode of life. Indeed, in this respect, the spot could scarce have been
more happily chosen, for it could be rendered almost completely inaccessible at the pleasure
of the inhabitant. The distance betwixt the nearest shore and the islet was not indeed above
an hundred yards; but then the causeway which connected them was extremely narrow, and completely
divided by two cuts, one in the mid-way between the islet and shore, and another close under
the outward gate of the castle. These formed a formidable, and almost insurmountable interruption
to any hostile approach. Each was defended by a drawbridge, one of which, being that nearest
to the castle, was regularly raised at all times during the day, and both were lifted at night.
[Footnote: It is in vain to search near Melrose for any such castle as is here described. The
lakes at the head of the Yarrow, and those at the rise of the water of Ale, present no object
of the kind. But in Vetholm Loch, (a romantic sheet of water, in the dry march, as it is called,)
there are the remains of a fortress called Lochside Tower, which, like the supposed Castle
of Avenel, is built upon an island, and connected with the land by a causeway. It is much smaller
than the Castle of Avenel is described, consisting only of a single *inous tower.]

The situation of Julian Avenel, engaged in a variety of feuds, and a party to almost every
dark and mysterious transaction which was on foot in that wild and military frontier, required
all these precautions for his security. His own ambiguous and doubtful course of policy had
increased these dangers; for as he made professions to both parties in the state, and occasionally
united more actively with either the one or the other, as chanced best to serve his immediate
purpose, he could not be said to have either firm allies and protectors, or determined enemies.
His life was a life of expedients and of peril; and while, in pursuit of his interest, he made
all the doubles which he thought necessary to attain his object, he often overran his prey,
and missed that which he might have gained by observing a straighter course.

       *      *       *       *       *

Chapter the Twenty-Fourth.

  I'll walk on tiptoe; arm my eye with caution,
  My heart with courage, and my hand with weapon,
  Like him who ventures on a lion's den.
                             OLD PLAY.

When, issuing from the gorge of a pass which terminated upon the lake, the travellers came
in sight of the ancient castle of Avenel, the old man looked with earnest attention upon the
scene before him. The castle was, as we have said, in many places ruinous, as was evident,
even at this distance, by the broken, rugged, and irregular outline of the walls and of the
towers. In others it seemed more entire, and a pillar of dark smoke, which ascended from the
chimneys of the donjon, and spread its long dusky pennon through the clear ether, indicated
that it was inhabited. But no corn-fields or enclosed pasture-grounds on the side of the lake
showed that provident attention to comfort and subsistence which usually appeared near the
houses of the greater, and even of the lesser barons. There were no cottages with their patches
of infield, and their crofts and gardens, surrounded by rows of massive sycamores; no church
with its simple tower in the valley; no herds of sheep among the hills; no cattle on the lower
ground; nothing which intimated the occasional prosecution of the arts of peace and of industry.
It was plain that the inhabitants, whether few or numerous, must be considered as the garrison
of the castle, living within its defended precincts, and subsisting by means which were other
than peaceful.

Probably it was with this conviction that the old man, gazing on the castle, muttered to himself,
"Lapis offensionis et petra scandali!" and then, turning to Halbert Glendinning, he added,
"We may say of yonder fort as King James did of another fastness in this province, that he
who built it was a thief in his heart." [Footnote: It was of Lochwood, the hereditary fortress
of the Johnstones of Aunandale, a strong castle situated in the centre of a quaking bog, that
James VI. made this remark.]

"But it was not so," answered Glendinning; "yonder castle was built by the old lords of Avenel,
men as much beloved in peace as they were respected in war. They were the bulwark of the frontiers
against foreigners, and the protectors of the natives from domestic oppression. The present
usurper of their inheritance no more resembles them, than the night-prowling owl resembles
a falcon, because she builds on the same rock."

"This Julian Avenel, then, holds no high place in the love and regard of his neighbours?" said
Warden.

"So little," answered Halbert, "that besides the jack-men and riders with whom he has associated
himself, and of whom he has many at his disposal, I know of few who voluntarily associate with
him. He has been more than once outlawed both by England and Scotland, his lands declared forfeited,
and his head set at a price. But in these unquiet times, a man so daring as Julian Avenel has
ever found some friends willing to protect him against the penalties of the law, on condition
of his secret services."

"You describe a dangerous man," replied Warden.

"You may have experience of that," replied the youth, "if you deal not the more warily;--though
it may be that he also has forsaken the community of the church, and gone astray in the path
of heresy."

"What your blindness terms the path of heresy," answered the reformer, "is indeed the straight
and narrow way, wherein he who walks turns not aside, whether for worldly wealth or for worldly
passions. Would to God this man were moved by no other and no worse spirit than that which
prompts my poor endeavours to extend the kingdom of Heaven! This Baron of Avenel is personally
unknown to me, is not of our congregation or of our counsel; yet I bear to him charges touching
my safety, from those whom he must fear if he does not respect them, and upon that assurance
I will venture upon his hold--I am now sufficiently refreshed by these few minutes of repose."

"Take then this advice for your safety," said Halbert, "and believe that it is founded upon
the usage of this country and its inhabitants. If you can better shift for yourself, go not
to the Castle of Avenel--if you do risk going thither, obtain from him, if possible, his safe
conduct, and beware that he swears it by the Black Rood--And lastly, observe whether he eats
with you at the board, or pledges you in the cup; for if he gives you not these signs of welcome,
his thoughts are evil towards you."

"Alas!" said the preacher, "I have no better earthly refuge for the present than these frowning
towers, but I go thither trusting to aid which is not of this earth--But thou, good youth,
needest thou trust thyself in this dangerous den?"

"I," answered Halbert, "am in no danger. I am well known to Christie of the Clinthill, the
henchman of this Julian Avenel; and, what is a yet better protection, I have nothing either
to provoke malice or to tempt plunder."

The tramp of a steed, which clattered along the shingly banks of the loch, was now heard behind
them; and, when they looked back, a rider was visible, his steel cap and the point of his long
lance glancing in the setting sun, as he rode rapidly towards them.

Halbert Glendinning soon recognized Christie of the Clinthill, and made his companion aware
that the henchman of Julian Avenel was approaching.

"Ha, youngling!" said Christie to Halbert, as he came up to them, "thou hast made good my word
at last, and come to take service with my noble master, hast thou not? Thou shalt find a good
friend and a true; and ere Saint Barnaby come round again, thou shalt know every pass betwixt
Millburn Plain and Netherby, as if thou hadst been born with a jack on thy back, and a lance
in thy hand.--What old carle hast thou with thee?--He is not of the brotherhood of Saint Mary's--at
least he has not the buist [Footnote: Buist--The brand, or mark, set upon sheep or cattle,
by their owners.] of these black cattle."

"He is a wayfaring man," said Halbert, "who has concerns with Julian of Avenel. For myself,
I intend to go to Edinburgh to see the court and the Queen, and when I return hither we will
talk of your proffer. Meantime, as thou hast often invited me to the castle, I crave hospitality
there to-night for myself and my companion."

"For thyself and welcome, young comrade," replied Christie; "but we harbour no pilgrims, nor
aught that looks like a pilgrim."

"So please you," said Warden, "I have letters of commendation to thy master from a sure friend,
whom he will right willingly oblige in higher matters than in affording me a brief protection.--And
I am no pilgrim, but renounce the same, with all its superstitious observances." He offered
his letters to the horseman, who shook his head.

"These," he said, "are matters for my master, and it will be well if he can read them himself;
for me, sword and lance are my book and psalter, and have been since I was twelve years old.
But I will guide you to the castle, and the Baron of Avenel will himself judge of your errand."

