Nothing special to our story occurred at Littlebath during the next two or three months, except
that Miss Mackenzie became more and more intimate with Miss Baker, and more and more anxious
to form an acquaintance with Miss Todd. With all the Stumfoldians she was on terms of mitigated
friendship, and always went to Mrs Stumfold's fortnightly tea-drinkings. But with no lady there,--always
excepting Miss Baker,--did she find that she grew into familiarity. With Mrs Stumfold no one
was familiar. She was afflicted by the weight of her own position, as we suppose the Queen
to be, when we say that her Majesty's altitude is too high to admit of friendships. Mrs Stumfold
never condescended--except to the bishop's wife who, in return, had snubbed Mrs Stumfold. But
living, as she did, in an atmosphere of flattery and toadying, it was wonderful how well she
preserved her equanimity, and how she would talk and perhaps think of herself, as a poor, erring
human being. When, however, she insisted much upon this fact of her humanity, the coachmaker's
wife would shake her head, and at last stamp her foot in anger, swearing that though everybody
was of course dust, and grass, and worms; and though, of course, Mrs Stumfold must, by nature,
be included in that everybody; yet dust, and grass, and worms nowhere exhibited themselves
with so few of the stains of humanity on them as they did within the bosom of Mrs Stumfold.
So that, though the absolute fact of Mrs Stumfold being dust, and grass, and worms, could not,
in regard to the consistency of things, be denied, yet in her dustiness, grassiness, and worminess
she was so little dusty, grassy, and wormy, that it was hardly fair, even in herself, to mention
the fact at all.

"I know the deceit of my own heart," Mrs Stumfold would say.

"Of course you do, Mrs Stumfold," the coachmaker's wife replied. "It is dreadful deceitful,
no doubt. Where's the heart that ain't? But there's a difference in hearts. Your deceit isn't
hard like most of 'em. You know it, Mrs Stumfold, and wrestle with it, and get your foot on
the neck of it, so that, as one may say, it's always being killed and got the better of."

During these months Miss Mackenzie learned to value at a very low rate the rank of the Stumfoldian
circle into which she had been admitted. She argued the matter with herself, saying that the
coachbuilder's wife and others were not ladies. In a general way she was, no doubt, bound to
assume them to be ladies; but she taught herself to think that such ladyhood was not of itself
worth a great deal. It would not be worth the while of any woman to abstain from having some
Mr Rubb or the like, and from being the lawful mother of children in the Rubb and Mackenzie
line of life, for the sake of such exceptional rank as was to be maintained by associating
with the Stumfoldians. And, as she became used to the things and persons around her, she indulged
herself in a considerable amount of social philosophy, turning over ideas in her mind for which
they, who saw merely the lines of her outer life, would hardly have given her credit. After
all, what was the good of being a lady? Or was there any good in it at all? Could there possibly
be any good in making a struggle to be a lady? Was it not rather one of those things which
are settled for one externally, as are the colour of one's hair and the size of one's bones,
and which should be taken or left alone, as Providence may have directed? "One cannot add a
cubit to one's height, nor yet make oneself a lady;" that was the nature of Miss Mackenzie's
argument with herself.

And, indeed, she carried the argument further than that. It was well to be a lady. She recognised
perfectly the delicacy and worth of the article. Miss Baker was a lady; as to that there was
no doubt. But, then, might it not also be very well not to be a lady; and might not the advantages
of the one position be compensated with equal advantages in the other? It is a grand thing
to be a queen; but a queen has no friends. It is fine to be a princess; but a princess has
a very limited choice of husbands. There was something about Miss Baker that was very nice;
but even Miss Baker was very melancholy, and Miss Mackenzie could see that that melancholy
had come from wasted niceness. Had she not been so much the lady, she might have been more
the woman. And there could be no disgrace in not being a lady, if such ladyhood depended on
external circumstances arranged for one by Providence. No one blames one's washerwoman for
not being a lady. No one wishes one's housekeeper to be a lady; and people are dismayed, rather
than pleased, when they find that their tailors' wives want to be ladies. What does a woman
get by being a lady? If fortune have made her so, fortune has done much for her. But the good
things come as the natural concomitants of her fortunate position. It is not because she is
a lady that she is liked by her peers and peeresses. But those choice gifts which have made
her a lady have made her also to be liked. It comes from the outside, and for it no struggle
can usefully be made. Such was the result of Miss Mackenzie's philosophy.

One may see that all these self-inquiries tended Rubb-wards. I do not mean that they were made
with any direct intention on her part to reconcile herself to a marriage with Mr Samuel Rubb,
or that she even thought of such an event as probable. He had said nothing to her to justify
such thought, and as yet she knew but very little of him. But they all went to reconcile her
to that sphere of life which her brother Tom had chosen, and which her brother Walter had despised.
They taught her to believe that a firm footing below was better than what might, after a life's
struggle, be found to be but a false footing above. And they were brightened undoubtedly by
an idea that some marriage in which she could love and be loved was possible to her below,
though it would hardly be possible to her above.

Her only disputant on the subject was Miss Baker, and she startled that lady much by the things
which she said. Now, with Miss Baker, not to be a lady was to be nothing. It was her weakness,
and I may also say her strength. Her ladyhood was of that nature that it took no soil from
outer contact. It depended, even within her own bosom, on her own conduct solely, and in no
degree on the conduct of those among whom she might chance to find herself. She thought it
well to pass her evenings with Mr Stumfold's people, and he at any rate had the manners of
a gentleman. So thinking, she felt in no wise disgraced because the coachbuilder's wife was
a vulgar, illiterate woman. But there were things, not bad in themselves, which she herself
would never have done, because she was a lady. She would have broken her heart rather than
marry a man who was not a gentleman. It was not unlady-like to eat cold mutton, and she ate
it. But she would have shuddered had she been called on to eat any mutton with a steel fork.
She had little generous ways with her, because they were the ways of ladies, and she paid for
them from off her own back and out of her own dish. She would not go out to tea in a street
cab, because she was a lady and alone; but she had no objection to walk, with her servant with
her if it was dark. No wonder that such a woman was dismayed by the philosophy of Miss Mackenzie.

And yet they had been brought together by much that was alike in their dispositions. Miss Mackenzie
had now been more than six months an inhabitant of Littlebath, and six months at such places
is enough for close intimacies. They were both quiet, conscientious, kindly women, each not
without some ambition of activity, but each a little astray as to the way in which that activity
should be shown. They were both alone in the world, and Miss Baker during the last year or
two had become painfully so from the fact of her estrangement from her old friend Miss Todd.
They both wished to be religious, having strong faith in the need of the comfort of religion;
but neither of them were quite satisfied with the Stumfoldian creed. They had both, from conscience,
eschewed the vanities of the world; but with neither was her conscience quite satisfied that
such eschewal was necessary, and each regretted to be losing pleasures which might after all
be innocent.

"If I'm to go to the bad place," Miss Todd had said to Miss Baker, "because I like to do something
that won't hurt my old eyes of an evening, I don't see the justice of it. As for calling it
gambling, it's a falsehood, and your Mr Stumfold knows that as well as I do. I haven't won
or lost ten pounds in ten years, and I've no more idea of making money by cards than I have
by sweeping the chimney. Tell me why are cards wicked? Drinking, and stealing, and lying, and
backbiting, and naughty love-making,--but especially backbiting--backbiting--backbiting,--those
are the things that the Bible says are wicked. I shall go on playing cards, my dear, till Mr
Stumfold can send me chapter and verse forbidding it."

Then Miss Baker, who was no doubt weak, had been unable to answer her, and had herself hankered
after the flesh-pots of Egypt and the delights of the unregenerated.

All these things Miss Baker and Miss Mackenzie discussed, and Miss Baker learned to love her
younger friend in spite of her heterodox philosophy. Miss Mackenzie was going to give a tea-party,--nothing
as yet having been quite settled, as there were difficulties in the way; but she propounded
to Miss Baker the possibility of asking Miss Todd and some few of the less conspicuous Toddites.
She had her ambition, and she wished to see whether even she might not do something to lessen
the gulf which separated those who loved the pleasures of the world in Littlebath from the
bosom of Mr Stumfold.

"You don't know what you are going to do," Miss Baker said.

"I'm not going to do any harm."

"That's more than you can say, my dear." Miss Baker had learnt from Miss Todd to call her friends
"my dear."

"You are always so afraid of everything," said Miss Mackenzie.

"Of course I am;--one has to be afraid. A single lady can't go about and do just as she likes,
as a man can do, or a married woman."

"I don't know about a man; but I think a single woman ought to be able to do more what she
likes than a married woman. Suppose Mrs Stumfold found that I had got old Lady Ruff to meet
her, what could she do to me?"

Old Lady Ruff was supposed to be the wickedest old card-player in all Littlebath, and there
were strange stories afloat of the things she had done. There were Stumfoldians who declared
that she had been seen through the blinds teaching her own maid piquet on a Sunday afternoon;
but any horror will get itself believed nowadays. How could they have known that it was not
beggar-my-neighbour? But piquet was named because it is supposed in the Stumfoldian world to
be the wickedest of all games.

"I don't suppose she'd do much," said Miss Baker; "no doubt she would be very much offended."

"Why shouldn't I try to convert Lady Ruff?"

"She's over eighty, my dear."

"But I suppose she's not past all hope. The older one is the more one ought to try. But, of
course, I'm only joking about her. Would Miss Todd come if you were to ask her?"

"Perhaps she would, but I don't think she'd be comfortable; or if she were, she'd make the
others uncomfortable. She always does exactly what she pleases."

"That's just why I think I should like her. I wish I dared to do what I pleased! We all of
us are such cowards. Only that I don't dare, I'd go off to Australia and marry a sheep farmer."

"You would not like him when you'd got him;--you'd find him very rough."

"I shouldn't mind a bit about his being rough. I'd marry a shoe-black to-morrow if I thought
I could make him happy, and he could make me happy."

"But it wouldn't make you happy."

"Ah! that's just what we don't know. I shan't marry a shoe-black, because I don't dare. So
you think I'd better not ask Miss Todd. Perhaps she wouldn't get on well with Mr Maguire."

"I had them both together once, my dear, and she made herself quite unbearable. You've no idea
what kind of things she can say."

"I should have thought Mr Maguire would have given her as good as she brought," said Miss Mackenzie.

"So he did; and then Miss Todd got up and left him, saying out loud, before all the company,
that it was not fair for him to come and preach sermons in such a place as that. I don't think
they have ever met since."

All this made Miss Mackenzie very thoughtful. She had thrown herself into the society of the
saints, and now there seemed to be no escape for her; she could not be wicked even if she wished
it. Having got into her convent, and, as it were, taken the vows of her order, she could not
escape from it.

"That Mr Rubb that I told you of is coming down here," she said, still speaking to Miss Baker
of her party.

"Oh, dear! will he be here when you have your friends here?"

"That's what I intended; but I don't think I shall ask anybody at all. It is so stupid always
seeing the same people."

"Mr Rubb is--is--is--?"

"Yes; Mr Rubb is a partner in my brother's house, and sells oilcloth, and things of that sort,
and is not by any means aristocratic. I know what you mean."

"Don't be angry with me, my dear."

"Angry! I am not a bit angry. Why should I be angry? A man who keeps a shop is not, I suppose,
a gentleman. But then, you know, I don't care about gentlemen,--about any gentleman, or any
gentlemen."

Miss Baker sighed, and then the conversation dropped. She had always cared about gentlemen,--and
once in her life, or perhaps twice, had cared about a gentleman.

Yes; Mr Rubb was coming down again. He had written to say that it was necessary that he should
again see Miss Mackenzie about the money. The next morning after the conversation which has
just been recorded, Miss Mackenzie got another letter about the same money, of which it will
be necessary to say more in the next chapter.

CHAPTER X

Plenary Absolutions

The letter which Miss Mackenzie received was from old Mr Slow, her lawyer; and it was a very
unpleasant letter. It was so unpleasant that it made her ears tingle when she read it and remembered
that the person to whom special allusion was made was one whom she had taught herself to regard
as her friend. Mr Slow's letter was as follows:

   7 Little St Dunstan Court,
   April, 186--.

   DEAR MADAM,

   I think it proper to write to you specially, about the
   loan made by you to Messrs Rubb and Mackenzie, as the sum
   lent is serious, and as there has been conduct on the part
   of some one which I regard as dishonest. I find that what
   we have done in the matter has been regulated rather by
   the fact that you and Mr Mackenzie are brother and sister,
   than by the ordinary course of such business; and I
   perceive that we had special warrant given to us for this
   by you in your letter of the 23rd November last; but,
   nevertheless, it is my duty to explain to you that Messrs
   Rubb and Mackenzie, or,--as I believe to be the case, Mr
   Samuel Rubb, junior, of that firm,--have not dealt with
   you fairly. The money was borrowed for the purpose of
   buying certain premises, and, I believe, was laid out in
   that way. But it was borrowed on the special understanding
   that you, as the lender, were to have the title-deeds of
   that property, and the first mortgage upon them. It was
   alleged, when the purchase was being made, that the money
   was wanted before the mortgage could be effected, and you
   desired us to advance it. This we did, aware of the close
   family connection between yourself and one of the firm.
   Of course, on your instruction, we should have done this
   had there been no such relationship, but in that case we
   should have made further inquiry, and, probably, have
   ventured to advise you. But though the money was so
   advanced without the completion of the mortgage, it was
   advanced on the distinct understanding that the security
   proffered in the first instance was to be forthcoming
   without delay. We now learn that the property is mortgaged
   to other parties to its full value, and that no security
   for your money is to be had.

   I have seen both Mr Mackenzie and Mr Rubb, junior. As
   regards your brother, I believe him to have been innocent
   of any intention of the deceit, for deceit there certainly
   has been. Indeed, he does not deny it. He offers to
   give you any security on the business, such as the
   stock-in-trade or the like, which I may advise you to
   take. But such would in truth be of no avail to you as
   security. He, your brother, seemed to be much distressed
   by what has been done, and I was grieved on his behalf. Mr
   Rubb,--the younger Mr Rubb,--expressed himself in a very
   different way. He at first declined to discuss the matter
   with me; and when I told him that if that was his way I
   would certainly expose him, he altered his tone a little,
   expressing regret that there should be delay as to the
   security, and wishing me to understand that you were
   yourself aware of all the facts.

   There can be no doubt that deceit has been used towards
   you in getting your money, and that Mr Rubb has laid
   himself open to proceedings which, if taken against him,
   would be absolutely ruinous to him. But I fear they would
   be also ruinous to your brother. It is my painful duty
   to tell you that your money so advanced is on a most
   precarious footing. The firm, in addition to their present
   liabilities, are not worth half the money; or, I fear I
   may say, any part of it. I presume there is a working
   profit, as two families live upon the business. Whether,
   if you were to come upon them as a creditor, you could get
   your money out of their assets, I cannot say; but you,
   perhaps, will not feel yourself disposed to resort to such
   a measure. I have considered it my duty to tell you all
   the facts, and though your distinct authority to us to
   advance the money absolves us from responsibility, I must
   regret that we did not make further inquiries before we
   allowed so large a sum of money to pass out of our hands.

   I am, dear Madam,
   Your faithful servant,

   JONATHAN SLOW.

Mr Rubb's promised visit was to take place in eight or ten days from the date on which this
letter was received. Miss Mackenzie's ears, as I have said, tingled as she read it. In the
first place, it gave her a terrible picture of the precarious state of her brother's business.
What would he do,--he with his wife, and all his children, if things were in such a state as
Mr Slow described them? And yet a month or two ago he was giving champagne and iced puddings
for dinner! And then what words that discreet old gentleman, Mr Slow, had spoken about Mr Rubb,
and what things he had hinted over and above what he had spoken! Was it not manifest that he
conceived Mr Rubb to have been guilty of direct fraud?

Miss Mackenzie at once made up her mind that her money was gone! But, in truth, this did not
much annoy her. She had declared to herself once before that if anything was wrong about the
money she would regard it as a present made to her brother; and when so thinking of it, she
had, undoubtedly, felt that it was, not improbably, lost to her. It was something over a hundred
a year to be deducted from her computed income, but she would still be able to live at the
Paragon quite as well as she had intended, and be able also to educate Susanna. Indeed, she
could do this easily and still save money, and, therefore, as regarded the probable loss, why
need she be unhappy?

Before the morning was over she had succeeded in white-washing Mr Rubb in her own mind. It
is, I think, certainly the fact that women are less pervious to ideas of honesty than men are.
They are less shocked by dishonesty when they find it, and are less clear in their intellect
as to that which constitutes honesty. Where is the woman who thinks it wrong to smuggle? What
lady's conscience ever pricked her in that she omitted the armorial bearings on her silver
forks from her tax papers? What wife ever ceased to respect her husband because he dealt dishonestly
in business? Whereas, let him not go to church, let him drink too much wine, let him go astray
in his conversation, and her wrath arises against these faults. But this lack of feminine accuracy
in the matter of honesty tends rather to charity in their judgment of others, than to deeds
of fraud on the part of women themselves.

Miss Mackenzie, who desired nothing that was not her own, who scrupulously kept her own hands
from all picking and stealing, gave herself no peace, after reading the lawyer's letter, till
she was able to tell herself that Mr Rubb was to be forgiven for what he had done. After all,
he had, no doubt, intended that she should have the promised security. And had not he himself
come to her in London and told her the whole truth,--or, if not the whole truth, as much of
it as was reasonable to expect that he should be able to tell her at an evening party after
dinner? Of course Mr Slow was hard upon him. Lawyers always were hard. If she chose to give
Messrs Rubb and Mackenzie two thousand five hundred pounds out of her pocket, what was that
to him? So she went on, till at last she was angry with Mr Slow for the language he had used.

It was, however, before all things necessary that she should put Mr Slow right as to the facts
of the case. She had, no doubt, condoned whatever Mr Rubb had done. Mr Rubb undoubtedly had
her sanction for keeping her money without security. Therefore, by return of post, she wrote
the following short letter, which rather astonished Mr Slow when he received it--

   Littlebath, April, 186--.

   DEAR SIR,

   I am much obliged by your letter about the money; but the
   truth is that I have known for some time that there was
   to be no mortgage. When I was in town I saw Mr Rubb at my
   brother's house, and it was understood between us then
   that the matter was to remain as it is. My brother and his
   partner are very welcome to the money.

   Believe me to be,
   Yours sincerely,

   MARGARET MACKENZIE.

The letter was a false letter; but I suppose Miss Mackenzie did not know that she was writing
falsely. The letter was certainly false, because when she spoke of the understanding "between
us," having just mentioned her brother and Mr Rubb, she intended the lawyer to believe that
the understanding was between them three; whereas, not a word had been said about the money
in her brother's hearing, nor was he aware that his partner had spoken of the money.

Mr Slow was surprised and annoyed. As regarded his comfort as a lawyer, his client's letter
was of course satisfactory. It absolved him not only from all absolute responsibility, but
also from the feeling which no doubt had existed within his own breast, that he had in some
sort neglected the lady's interest. But, nevertheless, he was annoyed. He did not believe the
statement that Rubb and Mackenzie had had permission to hold the money without mortgage, and
thought that neither of the partners had themselves so conceived when he had seen them. They
had, however, been too many for him--and too many also for the poor female who had allowed
herself to be duped out of her money. Such were Mr Slow's feelings on the matter, and then
he dismissed the subject from his mind.

The next day, about noon, Miss Mackenzie was startled almost out of her propriety by the sudden
announcement at the drawing-room door of Mr Rubb. Before she could bethink herself how she
would behave herself, or whether it would become her to say anything of Mr Slow's letter to
her, he was in the room.

"Miss Mackenzie," he said, hurriedly--and yet he had paused for a moment in his hurry till
the servant had shut the door--"may I shake hands with you?"

There could, Miss Mackenzie thought, be no objection to so ordinary a ceremony; and, therefore,
she said, "Certainly," and gave him her hand.

"Then I am myself again," said Mr Rubb; and having so said, he sat down.

Miss Mackenzie hoped that there was nothing the matter with him, and then she also sat down
at a considerable distance.

"There is nothing the matter with me," said he, "as you are still so kind to me. But tell me,
have you not received a letter from your lawyer?"

"Yes, I have."

"And he has done all in his power to blacken me? I know it. Tell me, Miss Mackenzie, has he
not blackened me? Has he not laid things to my charge of which I am incapable? Has he not accused
me of getting money from you under false pretences,--than do which, I'd sooner have seen my
own brains blown out? I would, indeed."

"He has written to me about the money, Mr Rubb."

"Yes; he came to me, and behaved shamefully to me; and he saw your brother, too, and has been
making all manner of ignominious inquiries. Those lawyers can never understand that there can
be anything of friendly feeling about money. They can't put friendly feelings into their unconscionable
bills. I believe the world would go on better if there was no such thing as an attorney in
it. I wonder who invented them, and why?"

Miss Mackenzie could give him no information on this point, and therefore he went on:

"But you must tell me what he has said, and what it is he wants us to do. For your sake, if
you ask us, Miss Mackenzie, we'll do anything. We'll sell the coats off our backs, if you wish
it. You shall never lose one shilling by Rubb and Mackenzie as long as I have anything to do
with the firm. But I'm sure you will excuse me if I say that we can do nothing at the bidding
of that old cormorant."

"I don't know that there's anything to be done, Mr Rubb."

"Is not there? Well, it's very generous in you to say so; and you always are generous. I've
always told your brother, since I had the honour of knowing you, that he had a sister to be
proud of. And, Miss Mackenzie, I'll say more than that; I've flattered myself that I've had
a friend to be proud of. But now I must tell you why I've come down to-day; you know I was
to have been here next week. Well, when Mr Slow came to me and I found what was up, I said
to myself at once that it was right you should know exactly--exactly--how the matter stands.
I was going to explain it next week, but I wouldn't leave you in suspense when I knew that
that lawyer was going to trouble you."

"It hasn't troubled me, Mr Rubb."

"Hasn't it though, really? That's so good of you again! Now the truth is--but it's pretty nearly
just what I told you that day after dinner, when you agreed, you know, to what we had done."

Here he paused, as though expecting an answer.

"Yes, I did agree."

"Just at present, while certain other parties have a right to hold the title-deeds, and I can't
quite say how long that may be, we cannot execute a mortgage in your favour. The title-deeds
represent the property. Perhaps you don't know that."

"Oh yes, I know as much as that."

"Well then, as we haven't the title-deeds, we can't execute the mortgage. Perhaps you'll say
you ought to have the title-deeds."

"No, Mr Rubb, I don't want to say anything of the kind. If my money can be of any assistance
to my brother--to my brother and you--you are welcome to the use of it, without any mortgage.
I will show you a copy of the letter I sent to Mr Slow."

"Thanks; a thousand thanks! and may I see the letter which Mr Slow wrote?"

"No, I think not. I don't know whether it would be right to show it to you."

"I shouldn't think of doing anything about it; that is, resenting it, you know. Only then we
should all be on the square together."

"I think I'd better not. Mr Slow, when he wrote it, probably did not mean that I should show
it to you."

"You're right; you're always right. But you'll let me see your answer."

Then Miss Mackenzie went to her desk, and brought him a copy of the note she had written to
the lawyer. He read it very carefully, twice over; and then she could see, when he refolded
the paper, that his eyes were glittering with satisfaction.

"Miss Mackenzie, Miss Mackenzie," he said, "I think that you are an angel!"

And he did think so. In so much at that moment he was at any rate sincere. She saw that he
was pleased, and she was pleased herself.

"There need be no further trouble about it," she said; and as she spoke she rose from her seat.

And he rose, too, and came close to her. He came close to her, hesitated for a moment, and
then, putting one hand behind her waist, though barely touching her, he took her hand with
his other hand. She thought that he was going to kiss her lips, and for a moment or two he
thought so too; but either his courage failed him or else his discretion prevailed. Whether
it was the one or the other, must depend on the way in which she would have taken it. As it
was, he merely raised her hand and kissed that. When she could look into his face his eyes
were full of tears.

"The truth is," said he, "that you have saved us from ruin;--that's the real truth. Damn all
lying!"

She started at the oath, but in an instant she had forgiven him that too. There was a sound
of reality about it, which reconciled her to the indignity; though, had she been true to her
faith as a Stumfoldian, she ought at least to have fainted at the sound.

"I hardly know what I am saying, Miss Mackenzie, and I beg your pardon; but the fact is you
could sell us up if you pleased. I didn't mean it when I first got your brother to agree as
to asking you for the loan; I didn't indeed; but things were going wrong with us, and just
at that moment they went more wrong than ever; and then came the temptation, and we were able
to make everything right by giving up the title-deeds of the premises. That's how it was, and
it was I that did it. It wasn't your brother; and though you may forgive me, he won't."

This was all true, but how far the truth should be taken towards palliating the deed done,
I must leave the reader to decide; and the reader will doubtless perceive that the truth did
not appear until Mr Rubb had ascertained that its appearance would not injure him. I think,
however, that it came from his heart, and that it should count for something in his favour.
The tear which he rubbed from his eye with his hand counted very much in his favour with Miss
Mackenzie; she had not only forgiven him now, but she almost loved him for having given her
something to forgive. With many women I doubt whether there be any more effectual way of touching
their hearts than ill-using them and then confessing it. If you wish to get the sweetest fragrance
from the herb at your feet, tread on it and bruise it.

She had forgiven him, and taken him absolutely into favour, and he had kissed her hand, having
all but embraced her as he did so; but on the present occasion he did not get beyond that.
He lacked the audacity to proceed at once from the acknowledgment of his fault to a declaration
of his love; but I hardly think that he would have injured himself had he done so. He should
have struck while the iron was hot, and it was heated now nearly to melting; but he was abashed
by his own position, and having something real in his heart, having some remnant of generous
feeling left about him, he could not make such progress as he might have done had he been cool
enough to calculate all his advantages.

"Don't let it trouble you any more," Miss Mackenzie said, when he had dropped her hand.

"But it does trouble me, and it will trouble me."

"No," she said, with energy, "it shall not; let there be an end of it. I will write to Tom,
and tell him that he is welcome to the money. Isn't he my brother? You are both welcome to
it. If it has been of service to you, I am very happy that it should be so. And now, Mr Rubb,
if you please, we won't have another word about it."

"What am I to say?"

"Not another word."

It seemed as though he couldn't speak another word, for he went to the window and stood there
silently, looking into the street. As he did so, there came another visitor to Miss Mackenzie,
whose ringing at the doorbell had not been noticed by them, and Miss Baker was announced while
Mr Rubb was still getting the better of his feelings. Of course he turned round when he heard
the lady's name, and of course he was introduced by his hostess. Miss Mackenzie was obliged
to make some apology for the gentleman's presence.

"Mr Rubb was expected next week, but business brought him down to-day unexpectedly."

"Quite unexpectedly," said Mr Rubb, making a violent endeavour to recover his equanimity.

Miss Baker looked at Mr Rubb, and disliked him at once. It should be remembered that she was
twenty years older than Miss Mackenzie, and that she regarded the stranger, therefore, with
a saner and more philosophical judgment than her friend could use,--with a judgment on which
the outward comeliness of the man had no undue influence; and it should be remembered also
that Miss Baker, from early age, and by all the association of her youth, had been taught to
know a gentleman when she saw him. Miss Mackenzie, who was by nature the cleverer woman of
the two, watched her friend's face, and saw by a glance that she did not like Mr Rubb, and
then, within her own bosom, she called her friend an old maid.

"We're having uncommonly fine weather for the time of year," said Mr Rubb.

"Very fine weather," said Miss Baker. "I've called, my dear, to know whether you'll go in with
me next door and drink tea this evening?"

"What, with Miss Todd?" asked Miss Mackenzie, who was surprised at the invitation.

"Yes, with Miss Todd. It is not one of her regular nights, you know, and her set won't be there.
She has some old friends with her,--a Mr Wilkinson, a clergyman, and his wife. It seems that
her old enemy and your devoted slave, Mr Maguire, knows Mr Wilkinson, and he's going to be there."

"Mr Maguire is no slave of mine, Miss Baker."

"I thought he was; at any rate his presence will be a guarantee that Miss Todd will be on her
best behaviour, and that you needn't be afraid."

"I'm not afraid of anything of that sort."

"But will you go?"

"Oh, yes, if you are going."

"That's right; and I'll call for you as I pass by. I must see her now, and tell her. Good-morning,
Sir;" whereupon Miss Baker bowed very stiffly to Mr Rubb.

"Good-morning, Ma'am," said Mr Rubb, bowing very stiffly to Miss Baker.

