"Ay," she said, "a letter you wrote to me, and which I should never have received had you not
forgot it and left it lying on my table in my study at Riverview. Can you guess what I felt,
Tom, when they brought it to me here, and I opened it and read that you had gone to the swamp
alone amongst those devils? I thought that you were dead, since the letter had been delivered,
and the whole extent of the wrong I had done you sprang up before me. But they told me you
were not dead,--that Colonel Washington had come for you, and that you had ridden hastily away
with him. I could guess the story, and I should never have known that you had saved the place
but for the chance which made you forget this letter."

I had tried to stop her more than once. She had gone on without heeding me, but now she paused.

"It was nothing," I said. "Nothing. There was no real danger. Thank Long. He was with me. He
is a better man than I."

"Oh, yes," she cried, "they are all better men than you, I dare say! Do not provoke me, sir,
or you will have me quarreling with you before I have said what I came here to say. Can you
guess what that is?" and she paused again, to look at me with a great light in her eyes.

But I was far past replying. I gazed up at her, bewildered, dazzled. I had never known this woman.

"I see you cannot guess," she said. "Of course you cannot guess! How could you, knowing me
as you have known me? 'Tis this. Riverview is yours, Tom, and shall be always yours from this
day forth, as of right it has ever been."

Riverview mine? No, no, I did not want Riverview. It was something else I wanted.

"I shall not take it, aunt," I said quite firmly. "I am going to make a name for myself,--with
my sword, you know," I added with a smile, "and when I have once done that, there is something
else which I shall ask you for, which will be dearer to me--oh, far dearer--than a hundred
Riverviews."

What ailed the women? Here was Dorothy too on her knees and kissing my bandaged hand.

"Oh, Tom, Tom," she cried, "do you not understand?"

"Understand?" I repeated blankly. "Understand what, Dorothy?"

"Don't you remember, dear, what happened just before the troops came?"

"Oh, very clearly," I answered. "The Indians got Brightson down and stabbed him, and just then
you sprang up and cried the troops were coming, and sure enough, there they were just entering
the clearing, and the Indians paused only for one look and then fled down the stairs as fast
as they could go. 'T was you who saved us all, Dorothy."

"Oh, but there was something more!" she cried. "There was one Indian who did not run, Tom,
but who stopped to aim at me. I saw him do it, and I closed my eyes, for I knew that he would
kill me, and I heard his gun's report, but no bullet struck me. For it was you whom it struck,
dear, through your hand and into your side, and for long we thought you dying."

"Yes," I said, "but you see I am not dying, nor like to die, dear Dorothy, so that I may still
rejoin the troops erelong."

She was looking at me with streaming eyes.

"Do you mean that I am not going to get well, Dorothy?" I asked, for I confess her tears frightened
me.

"Oh, not so bad as that, dear!" she cried. "Thank God, not so bad as that! But your hand, Tom,
your right hand is gone. You can never wield a sword again, dear, never go to war. You will
have to stay at home with me."

I know not how it was, but she was in my arms, and her lips were on mine, and I knew that was
no more parting for us.

CHAPTER XVIII

AND SO, GOOD-BY

Well, a right hand is a little price to pay for the love of a wife like mine, and if I have
made no name in the world, I at least live happy in it, which is perhaps a greater thing. And
I have grown to use my left hand very handily. I have learnt to write with it, as the reader
knows,--and when I hold my wife to me, I have her ever next my heart.

It is the fashion, I know well, to stop the story on the altar's steps, and leave the reader
to guess at all that may come after, but as I turn over the pages I have writ, they seem too
much a tale of failure and defeat, and I would not have it so. For the lessons learned at Fort
Necessity and Winchester and at Duquesne have given us strength to drive the French from the
continent and the Indian from the frontier. So that now we dwell in peace, and live our lives
in quiet and content, save for some disagreements with the king about our taxes, which Lord
Grenville has made most irksome.

And even to my dearest friend, whose life, as I have traced it here, has been so full of sorrow
and reverse, has come great happiness. He is honored of all men, and has found love as well,
for he has brought a wife home to Mount Vernon. Dorothy declares that Mistress Washington is
the very image of that Mary Cary who used him so ill years ago,--but this may be only a woman's
leaning toward romance.

Indeed, we have a romance in our own home,--a bright-eyed girl of twenty, who, I fear, is soon
to leave us, if a certain pert young blade who lives across the river has his way. It will
be I who give her away at the altar, for her father lies dead beside the Monongahela,--brave,
gentle-hearted Spiltdorph. My eyes grow dim even now when I think of you, yet I trust that
I have done as you would have had me do. For I found the girl at Hampton, after a weary search,--perhaps
some day I shall tell the story.

It is in the old seat by the river's edge I write these words, and as I lay down the pen, my
hand falls on those carved letters, T and D, with a little heart around them,--very faint,
now, and worn with frequent kisses,--and as I lift my head, I see coming to me across the grass
the woman who carved them there and whom I love.