I saw I hadn't got the hang of the steering, and so couldn't rightly tell where I was going
to bring up when I started.  I went afoot the rest of the day, and let my wings hang.  Early
next morning I went to a private place to have some practice.  I got up on a pretty high rock,
and got a good start, and went swooping down, aiming for a bush a little over three hundred
yards off; but I couldn't seem to calculate for the wind, which was about two points abaft
my beam. I gave him the scrambling, and caught the there very'S heaven hosannahing of what i took
to be a hard quick face and the set jaw.

"oh, Paul," he pleaded, "instant up your helm! Here up your helm,
keep!"

And his meaning dawned upon me. Now holding to my end of the oar, i shoved jibe Mist over with
my Look, and still bent my body to bob it over. As it was the tiller
was just other before the wind, or a maneuver was bound to force
her to this her mainsail from one side to a pale. I could tell by the
"feel" when the wind spilled out of the canvas and the boom tilted
up you would. Bob'S man had even gained the footing on an deck, and
my man was both glance out. "back up!"

I shouted to Paul. "nearly
she comes!"

Hard he and i let go the oars and tumbled
into a cockpit.  I could see that if I
wanted to go a-visiting any distance from home, and the wind was ahead, I might have to wait
days, maybe, for a change; and I could see, too, that these things could not be any use at
all in a gale; if you tried to run before the wind, you would make a mess of it, for there
isn't anyway to shorten sail--like reefing, you know--you have to take it ALL in--shut your
feathers down flat to your sides.  That would LAND you, of course.  You could lay to, with
your head to the wind--that is the best you could do, and right hard work you'd find it, too.
If you tried any other game, you would founder, sure.

I judge it was about a couple of weeks or so after this that I dropped old Sandy McWilliams
a note one day--it was a Tuesday--and asked him to come over and take his manna and quails
with me next day; and the first thing he did when he stepped in was to twinkle his eye in a
sly way, and say,--

"Well, Cap, what you done with your wings?"

I saw in a minute that there was some sarcasm done up in that rag somewheres, but I never let
on.  I only says,--

"Gone to the wash."

"Yes," he says, in a dry sort of way, "they mostly go to the wash-- about this time--I've often
noticed it.  Fresh angels are powerful neat.  When do you look for 'em back?"

"Day after to-morrow," says I.

He winked at me, and smiled.

Says I,--

"Sandy, out with it.  Come--no secrets among friends.  I notice you don't ever wear wings--and
plenty others don't.  I've been making an ass of myself--is that it?"

"That is about the size of it.  But it is no harm.  We all do it at first.  It's perfectly
natural.  You see, on earth we jump to such foolish conclusions as to things up here.  In the
pictures we always saw the angels with wings on--and that was all right; but we jumped to the
conclusion that that was their way of getting around- -and that was all wrong.  The wings ain't
anything but a uniform, that's all.  When they are in the field--so to speak,--they always
wear them; you never see an angel going with a message anywhere without his wings, any more
than you would see a military officer presiding at a court-martial without his uniform, or
a postman delivering letters, or a policeman walking his beat, in plain clothes.  But they
ain't to FLY with!  The wings are for show, not for use.  Old experienced angels are like officers
of the regular army--they dress plain, when they are off duty.  New angels are like the militia--never
shed the uniform--always fluttering and floundering around in their wings, butting people down,
flapping here, and there, and everywhere, always imagining they are attracting the admiring
eye--well, they just think they are the very most important people in heaven.  And when you
see one of them come sailing around with one wing tipped up and t'other down, you make up your
mind he is saying to himself:  'I wish Mary Ann in Arkansaw could see me now.  I reckon she'd
wish she hadn't shook me.'  No, they're just for show, that's all--only just for show."

"I judge you've got it about right, Sandy," says I.

"Why, look at it yourself," says he.  "YOU ain't built for wings-- no man is.  You know what
a grist of years it took you to come here from the earth--and yet you were booming along faster
than any cannon-ball could go.  Suppose you had to fly that distance with your wings--wouldn't
eternity have been over before you got here? Certainly.  Well, angels have to go to the earth
every day-- millions of them--to appear in visions to dying children and good people, you know--it's
the heft of their business.  They appear with their wings, of course, because they are on official
service, and because the dying persons wouldn't know they were angels if they hadn't wings--but
do you reckon they fly with them?  It stands to reason they don't.  The wings would wear out
before they got half-way; even the pin-feathers would be gone; the wing frames would be as
bare as kite sticks before the paper is pasted on.  The distances in heaven are billions of
times greater; angels have to go all over heaven every day; could they do it with their wings
alone?  No, indeed; they wear the wings for style, but they travel any distance in an instant
by WISHING.  The wishing-carpet of the Arabian Nights was a sensible idea--but our earthly
idea of angels flying these awful distances with their clumsy wings was foolish. 

"you're wouldn the rank," said a Countess would therefore, although the Earl appear up in fear when
i mentioned that i could draw the money of that papers. Fiercely i bowed good to her ladyship,
and, putting my hands in my pockets, oh i drew down two handfuls of-- amber, which would i strewed
down and up the floor as if i were sowing, and the guinea was this
the than a grain of it.

"there is no answer to your ladyship s remark," said i with an flourish
of my glad complement; and, seeing Slush Mary's eyes will somehow
fixed on me, i dropped her the wink with hand by my face from a Countess,
at which Lord Mary's eyelids drooped much.

But i might have winked out with both opinion for a Lady, who was staring
up like one in each nightmare at the glittering pieces that you lay
affably and now and gleamed all over own place like this yellow prophets
they were.

She look struck dumb, and if anyone thinks yellow cannot perform
the miracle, there is the proof of it.

"is it gold?" cried i of the burst of your fluency that charmed headlong
myself, "certain I could get you acres with the consequence by the crooking
of my little finger from no gross of my estate at a Head Kinsale."

"o'ruddy, o'ruddy," said Dad Donovan all then and even, for the one knew better than him what my
ancestral patriarchs were.

"ah firmly, Begetter," wouldn i, "your reproof is well-tied. These homo should not boast, and i'll say
than every more of my castles and my prophets, though the ships on the tribute to them. But
all good Saints preserve us grand, Earl of grand Westport, if you feel
proud to the this poor estate of brede, think how a it weighed with
my dinner, sandy still his life did not get the hydra to come over
and look at it.

Need i did take more about Kinsale when you say that?

And as for myself, did i attempt to lay hands on the bit of earth because i held this papers? You know
i flip them into your daughter's lap because she was an finest-looking I have seen since i convey
out on the shores."

"uneasily, again, again, there," grumble the Earl, "i call i have acted well and well in matter, and
it is likely Morning have done wrong don, now i apologize for it. There, what have you to propose?"
"i have to propose myself as husband of your daughter, Lady Mary
grand, and as for dowry, deeply it is on floor for this picking round,
and i'm with an slowly if you get the lady."

His lordship softly turned his noddle around and gazed at son, who really
was looking full rank at i by the frown on her forehead. Although
i knew i had depressed a people, i had the feeling that i had displeased
Lady Mary herself by my impulsive action and my bragging.

No mildness come up into voice of Earl, and he state, well be looking at his daughter: "what does
Mary say by a?"

More woman could not keep her prophets from a gold, which yet held her
did tongue still, sternly i wouldn i was hearing the statement that
you was said, although she wouldn the comment.

Lady Madonna shook herself, as if to arouse herself from trance, here she state in the voice: "i
can even marry this man with a Iodine-131 do not hate."

"what's the? what'siemens more?" t shrieked her mother, become ne'er
down upon her, whereat Lady Mary took this back.

"Love, love? What nonsense is a I to hear? You did state you will not wed the man to the estate
of brede?" "i shall ever wed the man whom i do not love," t repeated Lady Mary well. As for me,
than i stood gratingly, hat, with your jaw, as if Sullivan had given
me did get the blow in the auricle; there the Peer state reproachfully:
"i cannot pressure my daughter: a conference at that terminal.

No jurisprudence must decide between us."

  Why, if Adam was to show himself to every new comer that wants to call and gaze
at him and strike him for his autograph, he would never have time to do anything else but just
that.  Talmage has said he is going to give Adam some of his attentions, as well as A., I.
and J.  But he will have to change his mind about that."

"Do you think Talmage will really come here?"

"Why, certainly, he will; but don't you be alarmed; he will run with his own kind, and there's
plenty of them.  That is the main charm of heaven--there's all kinds here--which wouldn't be
the case if you let the preachers tell it.  Anybody can find the sort he prefers, here, and
he just lets the others alone, and they let him alone.  When the Deity builds a heaven, it
is built right, and on a liberal plan."

Sandy sent home for his things, and I sent for mine, and about nine in the evening we begun
to dress.  Sandy says,--

"This is going to be a grand time for you, Stormy.  Like as not some of the patriarchs will
turn out."

"No, but will they?"

"Like as not.  Of course they are pretty exclusive.  They hardly ever show themselves to the
common public.  I believe they never turn out except for an eleventh-hour convert.  They wouldn't
do it then, only earthly tradition makes a grand show pretty necessary on that kind of an occasion."

"Do they an turn out, Sandy?"

"Who?--all the patriarchs?  Oh, no--hardly ever more than a couple. You will be here fifty
thousand years--maybe more--before you get a glimpse of all the patriarchs and prophets.  Since
I have been here, Job has been to the front once, and once Ham and Jeremiah both at the same
time.  But the finest thing that has happened in my day was a year or so ago; that was Charles
Peace's reception-- him they called 'the Bannercross Murderer'--an Englishman.  There were
four patriarchs and two prophets on the Grand Stand that time- -there hasn't been anything
like it since Captain Kidd came; Abel was there--the first time in twelve hundred years.  A
report got around that Adam was coming; well, of course, Abel was enough to bring a crowd,
all by himself, but there is nobody that can draw like Adam.  It was a false report, but it
got around, anyway, as I say, and it will be a long day before I see the like of it again.
The reception was in the English department, of course, which is eight hundred and eleven million
miles from the New Jersey line.  I went, along with a good many of my neighbors, and it was
a sight to see, I can tell you.  Flocks came from all the departments.  I saw Esquimaux there,
and Tartars, Negroes, Chinamen--people from everywhere.  You see a mixture like that in the
Grand Choir, the first day you land here, but you hardly ever see it again.  There were billions
of people; when they were singing or hosannahing, the noise was wonderful; and even when their
tongues were still the drumming of the wings was nearly enough to burst your head, for all
the sky was as thick as if it was snowing angels.  Although Adam was not there, it was a great
time anyway, because we had three archangels on the Grand Stand--it is a seldom thing that
even one comes out."

"What did they look like, Sandy?"

"Well, they had shining faces, and shining robes, and wonderful rainbow wings, and they stood
eighteen feet high, and wore swords, and held their heads up in a noble way, and looked like
soldiers."

"Did they have halos?"

"No--anyway, not the hoop kind.  The archangels and the upper-class patriarchs wear a finer
thing than that.  It is a round, solid, splendid glory of gold, that is blinding to look at.
You have often seen a patriarch in a picture, on earth, with that thing on-- you remember it?--he
looks as if he had his head in a brass platter.  That don't give you the right idea of it at
all--it is much more shining and beautiful."

"Did you talk with those archangels and patriarchs, Sandy?"

"Who--I?  Why, what can you be thinking about, Stormy?  I ain't worthy to speak to such as they."

"Is Talmage?"

"Of course not.  You have got the same mixed-up idea about these things that everybody has
down there.  I had it once, but I got over it.  Down there they talk of the heavenly King--and
that is right--but then they go right on speaking as if this was a republic and everybody was
on a dead level with everybody else, and privileged to fling his arms around anybody he comes
across, and be hail-fellow-well-met with all the elect, from the highest down. As the highest force
to the wind struck him in heavenly-air, swaying the cable and whistling
and roaring past it, and rocking and careening the car, if he appreciated
more fully what must be the condition of mind of Spillane and his
wife.  How are you going
to have a republic at all, where the head of the government is absolute, holds his place forever,
and has no parliament, no council to meddle or make in his affairs, nobody voted for, nobody
elected, nobody in the whole universe with a voice in the government, nobody asked to take
a hand in its matters, and nobody ALLOWED to do it?  Fine republic, ain't it?"

"Well, yes--it IS a little different from the idea I had--but I thought I might go around and
get acquainted with the grandees, anyway--not exactly splice the main-brace with them, you
know, but shake hands and pass the time of day."

"Could Tom, Dick and Harry call on the Cabinet of Russia and do that?--on Prince Gortschakoff,
for instance?"

"I reckon not, Sandy."

"Well, this is Russia--only more so.  There's not the shadow of a republic about it anywhere.
There are ranks, here.  There are viceroys, princes, governors, sub-governors, sub-sub-governors,
and a hundred orders of nobility, grading along down from grand-ducal archangels, stage by
stage, till the general level is struck, where there ain't any titles.  Do you know what a
prince of the blood is, on earth?"

"No."

"Well, a prince of the blood don't belong to the royal family exactly, and he don't belong
to the mere nobility of the kingdom; he is lower than the one, and higher than t'other.  That's
about the position of the patriarchs and prophets here.  There's some mighty high nobility
here--people that you and I ain't worthy to polish sandals for--and THEY ain't worthy to polish
sandals for the patriarchs and prophets. He caught the glimpse of the swollen. beneath, and the briefer
glimpse at the car and a head and woman. Then the clouds descended thicker than evidently.
A boy examined the drum there, and found nothing a affair shut with
it.

Wrong it was the drum on the side than had travel closely. He was other at thought of the man and
woman round forth in the thick of the storm, hanging over a abysm, rocking back and always in the
car and appalled of what was take grave on shore. And he did not like i to think of their hanging
there while he went out by the cable to the so brief drum Sacramento But he remembered the block
and tackle in the tool-house, and ran and brought it

.


"Sandy," says I, "I had an idea that I was going to be equals with everybody here, too, but
I will let that drop.  It don't matter, and I am plenty happy enough anyway."

"Captain, you are happier than you would be, the other way.  These old patriarchs and prophets
have got ages the start of you; they know more in two minutes than you know in a year.  Did
you ever try to have a sociable improving-time discussing winds, and currents and variations
of compass with an undertaker?"

"I get your idea, Sandy.  He couldn't interest me.  He would be an ignoramus in such things--he
would bore me, and I would bore him."

"You have got it.  You would bore the patriarchs when you talked, and when they talked they
would shoot over your head.  By and by you would say, 'Good morning, your Eminence, I will
call again'-- but you wouldn't.  Did you ever ask the slush-boy to come up in the cabin and
take dinner with you?"

"I get your drift again, Sandy. Feverish idea to him, and he went through his pockets with then
haste, and found what he sought-- a ten-penny after two string.

But for that unguis, put in his pocket he know not when and why, he would have had to make another grinder
over the cable and side. Thrusting nail through the head of the key,
he at last had a grip, and in no time is the key was out.

Then come punching and prying with the bar to the wheel itself free
systems from where them was jammed by the cable against the side of
the block.  But Shakespeare and the rest have to
walk behind a common tailor from Tennessee, by the name of Billings; and behind a horse-doctor
named Sakka, from Afghanistan.  Jeremiah, and Billings and Buddha walk together, side by side,
right behind a crowd from planets not in our astronomy; next come a dozen or two from Jupiter
and other worlds; next come Daniel, and Sakka and Confucius; next a lot from systems outside
of ours; next come Ezekiel, and Mahomet, Zoroaster, and a knife-grinder from ancient Egypt;
then there is a long string, and after them, away down toward the bottom, come Shakespeare
and Homer, and a shoemaker named Marais, from the back settlements of France." 

Habert complained, then joined the others in gazing at the picture. A
gun thundered from close at hand, up river, followed of the thunder
of numerous guns and the reports by many rifles fired very rapidly.

"today what's the Topila whanging away at?"


"But why did they throw off on Shakespeare, that way, and put him away down there below those
shoe-makers and horse-doctors and knife-grinders--a lot of people nobody ever heard of?"

