THE STORY OF A COMMON SOLDIER OF ARMY LIFE IN THE CIVIL WAR 1861-1865

Second Edition

by

LEANDER STILLWELL Late of Co. D, 61st Illinois Infantry

Franklin Hudson Publishing Co. 1920

Copyright 1920 by Leander Stillwell

DEDICATED TO MY YOUNGEST SON, JEREMIAH E. STILLWELL.

DEAR JERRY:

You have earnestly asked me to write something in the nature of an extended account of my career
as a soldier in the Union army during the Civil War. It will be a rather strenuous undertaking
for a man of my age. I shall be seventy-three years old in about three months, and the truth
is, I am now becoming somewhat indolent, and averse to labor of any kind, either mental or
physical. But I have concluded to comply with your request, and undertake the work. Whether
I shall complete it, or not, I cannot now positively say, but I will do the best I can. And
I will also say, for whatever you may think it worth, that YOU are the only person, now living,
whose request could induce me to undertake the sketch that you desire.

L. STILLWELL.

Erie, Kansas, July 3, 1916.

CONTENTS.

                                                                 PAGE

CHAPTER I.--The Beginning of the War. Life at Camp Carrollton, January and February, 1862 
9

CHAPTER II.--Benton Barracks. St. Louis, March, 1862               22

CHAPTER III.--Off for the Seat of War. The Battle of Shiloh. March and April, 1862        
30

CHAPTER IV.--Some Incidents of the Battle of Shiloh                54

CHAPTER V.--The Siege of Corinth. In Camp at Owl Creek. April and May, 1862               
69

CHAPTER VI.--Bethel. Jackson. June and July, 1862                  78

CHAPTER VII.--Bolivar. July, August, and September, 1862           90

CHAPTER VIII.--Bolivar. The Movement to the Vicinity of Iuka, Mississippi. September-December,
1862                              98

CHAPTER IX.--The Affair at Salem Cemetery. Jackson, Carroll Station. December, 1862, January,
1863. Bolivar. February-May, 1863                                                              114

CHAPTER X.--The Siege of Vicksburg. June and July, 1863           133

CHAPTER XI.--Helena, Arkansas. Life in a Hospital. August, 1863   149

CHAPTER XII.--Devall's Bluff. Little Rock. August-October, 1863   157

CHAPTER XIII.--Little Rock, October, 1863. Granted a Furlough. Chaplain B. B. Hamilton. The
Journey on Furlough from Little Rock to Jersey County, Illinois. Return to Regiment, November,
1863    165

CHAPTER XIV.--Little Rock. Winter of 1863-4. Re-enlist for Three Years More               
182

CHAPTER XV.--Little Rock. Expeditions to Augusta and Springfield. March, April, and May, 1864
190

CHAPTER XVI.--Devall's Bluff; The Clarendon Expedition. June and July, 1864               
203

CHAPTER XVII.--Devall's Bluff Grand Reviews and Inspections. Surgeon J. P. Anthony. Private
Press Allender. June and July, 1864                                                       
209

CHAPTER XVIII.--The Regiment Goes Home on Veteran Furlough. Interview with General W. T. Sherman
After the War. A Short Tour of Soldiering at Chester, Illinois. August, September, and October,
1864                                                 216

CHAPTER XIX.--Expedition to North Missouri. Back in Tennessee Once More. Murfreesboro. October
and November, 1864               225

CHAPTER XX.--The Affair at Overall's Creek. Murfreesboro. December, 1864                  
233

CHAPTER XXI.--The Battle of Wilkinson's Pike. December 7, 1864    238

CHAPTER XXII.--The Fight on the Railroad Near Murfreesboro, December 15, 1864             
247

CHAPTER XXIII.--Murfreesboro. Winter of 1864-1865. Franklin. Spring and Summer of 1865    
258

CHAPTER XXIV.--The Soldier's Pay; Rations; Allusions to Some of the Useful Lessons Learned
by Service in the Army in Time of War; Courage in Battle                                  
265

CHAPTER XXV.--Franklin, Summer of 1865. Mustered Out, September 8, 1865. Receive Final Payment
at Springfield, Illinois, September 27, 1865. The Regiment "Breaks Ranks" Forever         
275

PREFACE.

When I began writing these reminiscences it did not occur to me that anything in the nature
of a preface was necessary. It was thought that the dedication to my son Jerry contained sufficient
explanation. But I have now finished writing these recollections, and in view of all that they
set forth, I believe that a few brief prefatory remarks may now be appropriate. In the first
place it will be said that when I began the work it was only to gratify my son, and without
any thought or expectation that it would ever be published. I don't know yet that such will
be done, but it may happen. The thought occurred to me after I had written some part of it,
and it is possible that about at that point some change began to take place in the style, and
phraseology, and which perhaps may be observed. So much for that. Next I will say that all
statements of fact herein made, based upon my own knowledge, can be relied on as absolutely
true. My mother most carefully preserved the letters I wrote home from the army to her and
to my father. She died on February 6, 1894, and thereafter my father (who survived her only
about three years) gave back to me these old letters. In writing to my parents I wrote, as
a rule, a letter every week when the opportunity was afforded, and now in this undertaking
with these letters before me it was easy to follow the regiment every mile of its way from
Camp Carrollton in January, 1862, to Camp Butler, in September, 1865. Furthermore, on June
1, 1863, at Memphis, Tennessee, as we passed through there on our way to join Grant's army
at Vicksburg, I bought a little blank book about four inches long, three inches wide, and half
an inch thick. From that time until we were mustered out, I kept a sort of very brief diary
in this little book, and have it yet. The old letters and this book have been invaluable to
me in writing my recollections, and having been written at or near the time of the happening
of the events they mention, can be relied on as accurate and truthful.

Though I attained the rank of a commissioned officer while in the service, yet that did not
occur until near the end of my time, and after the war was over. So it is submitted that the
title given these sketches, "The Story of a Common Soldier," is warranted by the facts.

If this manuscript should ever be published, it will go to the world without any apology or
commendation from me whatever. It is, though, only fair to say that I make no pretensions to
being a "literary" man. This is simply the story of a common soldier who served in the army
during the great war, and who faithfully tried to do his duty.

L. STILLWELL.

December 30, 1916.

I was born September 16, 1843, on a farm, in Otter Creek precinct, Jersey County, Illinois.
I was living with my parents, in the little old log house where I was born, when the Civil
war began. The Confederates fired on Fort Sumter on April 12, 1861, and thus commenced the
war. On April 15, 1861, President Lincoln issued a call for 75,000 men, to aid in putting down
the existing rebellion. Illinois promptly furnished her quota, and in addition, thousands of
men were turned away, for the reason that the complement of the State was complete, and there
was no room for them. The soldiers under this call were mustered in for three months' service
only, for the government then seemed to be of the opinion that the troubles would be over by
the end of that time. But on May 3, 1861, Mr. Lincoln issued another call for volunteers, the
number specified being a little over 42,000, and their term of service was fixed at three years,
unless sooner discharged. The same call provided for a substantial increase in the regular
army and navy. I did not enlist under either of these calls. As above stated, the belief then
was almost universal throughout the North that the "war" would amount to nothing much but a
summer frolic, and would be over by the 4th of July. We had the utmost confidence that Richmond
would be taken by that time, and that Jeff Davis and his cabinet would be prisoners, or fugitives.
But the battle of Bull Run, fought on July 21, 1861, gave the loyal people of the Nation a
terrible awakening. The result of this battle was a crushing disappointment and a bitter mortification
to all the friends of the Union. They realized then that a long and bloody struggle was before
them. But Bull Run was probably all for the best. Had it been a Union victory, and the Rebellion
then been crushed, negro slavery would have been retained, and the "irrepressible conflict"
would have been fought out likely in your time, with doubtless tenfold the loss of life and
limb that ensued in the war of the sixties.

The day after the battle of Bull Run Congress passed a law authorizing Mr. Lincoln to call
for five hundred thousand three-years volunteers. It was under this law, supplemented by authority
from the Secretary of War, that the regiment was organized in which I subsequently enlisted.
I was then only a boy, but somehow I felt that the war was going to be a long one, and that
it was the duty of every young fellow of the requisite physical ability to "go for a soldier,"
and help save the Nation. I had some talk with my father on the subject. He was a strong Union
man, and in sympathy with my feelings, but I could see that naturally he dreaded the idea of
his boy going to the war, with the result that maybe he would be killed, or come home a cripple
for life. But I gave him to understand that when they began organizing a regiment in our vicinity,
and which would contain a fair proportion of my neighbor boys and acquaintances, I intended
then to volunteer. It was simply intolerable to think that I could stay at home, among the
girls, and be pointed at by the soldier boys as a stay-at-home coward.

The work of organizing and recruiting for a regiment in our corner of the State began early
in the autumn of 1861. The various counties in that immediate locality were overwhelmingly
Democratic in politics, and many of the people were strong "Southern sympathizers," as they
were then called, and who later developed into virulent Copperheads and Knights of the Golden
Circle. Probably 90 per cent of the inhabitants of Greene, Jersey, Scott, Morgan, and adjoining
counties came from the Southern States, or were the direct descendants of people from that
part of the country. Kentuckians, Tennesseeans, and North and South Carolinians were especially
numerous. But it is only fair and the truth to say that many of the most prominent and dangerous
of this Copperhead element were men from remote Eastern States. What caused these persons to
pursue this shameful course I do not know. President Lincoln was personally well aware of these
political conditions in our locality, as his old home, at Springfield, the State Capital, was
not far away, and he doubtless knew every man of reasonable prominence in our entire Congressional
District. He wanted soldiers, regardless of politics, but it was necessary, in that locality,
to hold out some special inducements to his constituents of the Democratic faith. So, for that
reason, (with others,) as was well understood at the time, Gen. Jacob Fry of Greene County,
a Kentuckian by birth and a life-long Democrat, was selected as the one to recruit and organize,
and to be the colonel of the regiment to be raised from the counties above named and their
vicinity. Aside from the political consideration, this selection of Gen. Fry was regarded at
the time as a very good and appropriate one. He was an old-timer, having been a resident of
Greene county from his boyhood, had been sheriff of the county, and had held other responsible
offices. And, what was considered still more important, he had served with credit and distinction
in the "Black Hawk War" in 1831-2, where he held the rank of Colonel. Soon after the close
of this Indian disturbance, he was made Brigadier-General, and subsequently Major-General,
of the Illinois militia. He was a grand old man, of temperate habits, strict integrity, and
unflinching bravery. But he was sixty-two years old, and that proved to be a handicap that
eventually resulted in his resignation, as will appear later.

The Fair Grounds, about half a mile east of Carrollton, the county seat of Greene County, were
designated as the "Camp of Instruction" for Col. Fry's regiment. Recruiting for it began about
the last of September, but it proceeded very slowly. Several of the boys from my neighborhood
had previously enlisted in other regiments, and it looked as if the "wiry edge" of volunteering
had somewhat worn off. Co. F of the 14th Illinois Infantry had been raised almost entirely
in Jersey county, and several of my old schoolmates were in that company. And there were little
squads that had joined other regiments. The 22nd and the 27th Illinois Infantry and the 9th
Missouri Infantry, (afterwards designated as the 59th Illinois Infantry,) each had some men
and boys from our part of the county.

Up in the northwest corner of Jersey County and close to the Greene county line lived an old
farmer by the name of John H. Reddish. He, too, had served in the Black Hawk War, and under
the command of Col. Fry. The highest position he attained in that scrap, as shown by the records,
was that of corporal, but, regardless of his rank, it is entirely safe to say that he was a
fighter. As soon as it was announced that Col. Fry was raising a regiment, and was to be its
colonel, Uncle John Reddish forthwith took the field to recruit a company for this organization.
The fact that he had been a Black Hawk war soldier gave him immense prestige, and settled in
his favor the question of his military qualifications without further evidence. The truth is
that at that time almost any man of good repute and fair intelligence, who had seen service
in this Black Hawk racket, or the Mexican war, was regarded as fit and desirable for a commissioned
officer, or, at the least, pretty high up in the non-commissioned line. But, as it afterwards
turned out, that was an erroneous notion. There were exceptions, of course, but in any event,
as regards the Black Hawk episode, service during it was of no practical benefit whatever to
a man who became thereby an officer in the Civil war. Capt. Reddish was kind hearted, and as
brave an old fellow as a reckless and indiscriminating bull dog, but, aside from his personal
courage, he had no military qualities whatever, and failed to acquire any during his entire
service. He never could learn the drill, except the most simple company movements. He was also
very illiterate, and could barely write his name. And his commands on drill were generally
laughable. For instance, in giving the command of right or left wheel, he would supplement
it by saying, "Swing around, boys, just like a gate." Such directions would mortify us exceedingly,
and caused the men of the other companies to laugh at and twit us about our Captain. He would
have made a first-class duty sergeant, and that was as high a rank as he was capable of properly
filling. But he was a good old man, and furiously patriotic. He loved a fighter and abominated
a coward, and, on the whole, his men couldn't help but like him. Capt. Reddish selected for
his first, or orderly sergeant, as the position was generally designated, Enoch W. Wallace,
of my neighborhood. Enoch, as we usually called him, was an old acquaintance and intimate friend
of my parents, and I too had known him from the time I was quite a little boy. Take him all
in all, he was just one of the best men I ever knew. He had seen service as a Mexican war soldier,
but owing to his youth, being only about sixteen when that war began, I think he did not get
in till towards the last, and hence his service was short. But he learned something about company
drill. When I heard that Wallace was to be the first sergeant of Capt. Reddish's company, I
made up my mind, right then, that I would enlist in that company, and told my father I was
going to do so. He listened in silence, with his eyes fixed on the ground. Finally he said,
"Well, Leander, if you think it's your duty to go, I shall make no objection. But you're the
only boy I now have at home big enough to work, so I wish you'd put it off until we get the
wheat sowed, and the corn gathered. Then, if you're still of the same mind, it'll be all right."
I felt satisfied that the regiment would not leave for the front until after we had done that
work, so I at once consented to my father's request.

An incident happened about this time that greatly stimulated my desire to get into the army.
Harvey Edsall, a neighbor boy some four or five years my senior, had enlisted that summer in
the 22nd Illinois Infantry. Harvey, with his regiment, was in the battle of Belmont on November
7, 1861, and in the action received a rather severe gun shot wound in the calf of one of his
legs. As soon as he was able to stand the travel, he was sent home on furlough, and I met him
soon after his arrival at his father's house, where the people had gathered to listen to "the
preaching of the word" by Elder Harrison Rowden. (We had no regular church building in our
immediate neighborhood then, and religious services were held at private houses.) Harvey was
rapidly recovering, but his wounded leg was still swathed in bandages, and he walked on crutches.
I well remember how we boys stood around and looked at him with wide-eyed admiration. And he
had to tell us the story of the fight, and all about the circumstances connected with the shot
he got in his leg, until he probably was sick and tired of the subject. But, for my part, I
thought Harvey's story was just grand, and it somehow impressed me with the idea that the only
life worth living was that of a soldier in time of war. The idea of staying at home and turning
over senseless clods on the farm with the cannon thundering so close at hand that the old men
said that when the wind was from the south they sometimes smelled the powder!--was simply intolerable.

Remember all the time, as you read these recollections of an old man, that I am trying to give
you merely some conception of the thoughts, feelings, hopes, and ambitions of one who, at the
time of which I am now speaking, was only an eighteen year old boy.

In the meantime, I went on helping my father do the fall work on the farm. In due time the
wheat was sowed, the corn gathered, and a huge stack of firewood for winter cut and brought
in, and piled near the dwelling-house. By this time the holiday season was approaching, which
I wanted to spend at home, thinking, maybe, it might be the last. And the regiment was doing
nothing but recruit, and drill at Camp Carrollton, and, as I looked at it, there was no special
need to hurry. But Christmas and New Year's Day soon came, and went, and one evening I told
my parents I intended to go to Carrollton the next day, and "maybe" would come back a soldier.
Early next morning, which was Monday, January 6, 1862, I saddled and bridled Bill, the little
black mule, and struck out. Carrollton was about twenty miles from our home, almost due north,
and the road ran mainly through big woods, with an occasional farm on either side of the road.
It is likely those woods are all gone now. I reached the camp about the middle of the afternoon,
went to the quarters of Reddish's company, found Enoch Wallace, and told him I had come to
enlist. He took me to Capt. Reddish, gave me a short introduction to him, and told him my business.
The old Captain gave me a hearty greeting, and was so plain, kind and natural in his manner
and talk, that I took a liking to him at once. He told me that the first step necessary was
to be examined by the regimental surgeon as to my physical fitness, so we at once went to the
surgeon's tent. I had previously heard all sorts of stories as to the thoroughness of this
examination, that sometimes the prospective recruits had to strip, stark naked, and jump about,
in order to show that their limbs were perfect. But I was agreeably disappointed in that regard.
The surgeon, at that time, was a fat, jolly old doctor by the name of Leonidas Clemmons. I
was about scared to death when the Captain presented me to him, and requested him to examine
me. I reckon the good old doctor saw I was frightened, and he began laughing heartily and saying
some kind things about my general appearance. He requested me to stand up straight, then gave
me two or three little sort of "love taps" on the chest, turned me round, ran his hands over
my shoulders, back, and limbs, laughing and talking all the time, then whirled me to the front,
and rendered judgment on me as follows: "Ah, Capt. Reddish! I only wish you had a hundred such
fine boys as this one! He's all right, and good for the service." I drew a long breath, and
felt much relieved. Then we went to the adjutant's tent, there I signed something, and was
duly sworn in. Then to the quartermaster's tent, where I drew my clothing. I got behind a big
bale of stuff, took off my citizen's apparel and put on my soldier clothes then and there,--and
didn't I feel proud! The clothing outfit consisted of a pair of light-blue pantaloons, similar
colored overcoat with a cape to it, dark blue jacket, heavy shoes and woolen socks, an ugly,
abominable cocky little cap patterned after the then French army style, gray woolen shirt,
and other ordinary under-clothing. Was also given a knapsack, but I think I didn't get a haversack
and canteen until later. Right here I will say that the regimental records give the date of
my enlistment as the 7th of January, which is wrong. The date was the 6th. It was a day I did
not forget, and never shall. How the authorities happened to get the date wrong I do not know,
but it is a matter of only one day, and never was of any importance.

It was the custom then in the regiment to give each recruit when he enlisted a two-days furlough,
but I deferred asking for mine until the next morning. I spent that afternoon in the camp,
and the night at the quarters of my company. As already stated, the camp was on the county
Fair Grounds. They contained forty acres, and were thickly studded with big native trees, mainly
white and black oak and shag-bark hickory. The grounds were surrounded by an inclosure seven
or eight feet high, consisting of thick, native timber planks with the lower ends driven in
the ground, and the upper parts firmly nailed to cross-wise stringers. There was only one opening,
which was at the main gate about the center of the north side of the grounds. A line of guards
was maintained at the gate and all round the inside of the inclosure, with the beat close to
the fence, for the purpose of keeping the men in camp. No enlisted man could go out except
on a pass signed by his captain, and approved by the colonel. The drilling of the men was conducted
principally inside the grounds, but on skirmish drill we went outside, in order to have room
enough. The quarters or barracks of the men were, for each company, a rather long, low structure,
crudely built of native lumber and covered with clapboards and a top dressing of straw, containing
two rows of bunks, one above and one below. These shacks looked like a Kansas stable of early
days,--but they were abodes of comfort and luxury compared to what we frequently had later.

Next morning, after an early breakfast, I pulled out for home, with my two-days furlough in
my pocket. I was accompanied by John Jobson, one of Reddish's company, and who had enlisted
about a month previous. He had obtained a short furlough for some purpose or other, and had
hired a horse on which to make the trip. Prior to his enlistment he had been working as a farm
hand for Sam Dougherty, one of our nearest neighbors, and I had become well acquainted with
him. He was about twenty-five years old, of English birth, a fine, sensible young fellow, and
made a good soldier. I well remember our high spirits on this journey home. We were young,
glowing with health and overflowing with liveliness and animation. There was a heavy snow on
the ground, but the sky was clear, and the air was keen and bracing. Occasionally, when we
would strike a stretch of level road, we would loose all the buttons of our overcoats save
the top one, put the gad to our steeds, and waving our caps, with our long coat tails streaming
in the wind, would yell like Comanches, and "let on" that we were making a cavalry charge.
I have no doubt that we believed we presented a most terror-striking appearance.

Happy is man that to him the future is a sealed book. In the summer of 1863, while we were
stationed near Vicksburg, Jobson was taken seriously ill, and was put on a transport to be
taken to a general hospital at Mound City, Illinois. He died en route, on the boat, and was
hastily buried in a sand bar at the mouth of White River. The changing currents of the mighty
Mississippi have long since swallowed up that sand bar, and with it all that may have been
left of the mortal remains of poor Jobson.

I reached home sometime in the afternoon, relieved Bill of his equipments, put him in the stable,
and fed him. No one was stirring about outside, and I walked into the house unannounced. My
mother was seated in an old rocking-chair, engaged in sewing. She looked up, saw me in the
uniform of a soldier, and she knew what that meant. Her work dropped in her lap, she covered
her face with her hands, and the tears gushed through her fingers and she trembled in her chair
with the intensity of her emotions. There was no sobbing, or other vocal manifestation of feeling,
but her silence made her grief seem all the more impressive. I was distressed, and didn't know
what to say, so I said nothing, and walked out into the kitchen, thence back to the barn. There
I met father, who had come in from some out-door work. He looked at me gravely, but with an
impassive countenance, and merely remarked, "Well, I reckon you've done right."

Next morning everybody seemed more cheerful, and I had much to say at breakfast about things
at Camp Carrollton.

On the expiration of my furlough I promptly reported at the camp and entered on my duties as
a soldier. The absorbing duty was the drill, and that was persistent, and consumed the most
of the time. I knew nothing about it when I enlisted, and had never seen any except on the
previous Monday afternoon. The system we then had was Hardee's Infantry Tactics. It was simple,
and easily learned. The main things required were promptness, care, and close attention. All
day long, somewhere in the camp, could be heard the voice of some officer, calling, "Left!
left! left, right, left!" to his squad or company, to guide them in the cadence of the step.
We were drilled at Carrollton in the "school of the soldier," "school of the company," and
skirmish drill, with dress parade at sunset. We had no muskets, and did not receive them until
we went to Benton Barracks, at St. Louis. I do not remember of our having any battalion drill
at Camp Carrollton. The big trees in the fair grounds were probably too thick and numerous
to permit that. Our fare consisted of light bread, coffee, fresh meat at some meals, and salt
meat at others, Yankee beans, rice, onions, and Irish and sweet potatoes, with stewed dried
apples occasionally for supper. The salt meat, as a rule, was pickled pork and fat side meat,
which latter "table comfort" the boys called "sow-belly." We got well acquainted with that
before the war was over. On the grub question I will say now that the great "stand-bys" of
the Union soldiers during the war, at least those of the western armies, were coffee, sow-belly,
Yankee beans, and hardtack. It took us, of course, some time to learn how to cook things properly,
especially the beans, but after we had learned how, we never went back on the above named old
friends. But the death of many a poor boy, especially during our first two or three months
in the field, is chargeable to the bad cooking of his food.

At Carrollton the jolliest time of the day was from the close of dress parade until taps sounded
"Lights out." There was then a good deal of what you might call "prairie dogging," that is,
the boys would run around and visit at the quarters of other companies. And Oh, how they would
sing! All sorts of patriotic songs were in vogue then, and what was lacking in tone we made
up in volume. The battle of Mill Springs, in Kentucky, was fought on January 19, 1862, resulting
in a Union victory. A Confederate general, Felix K. Zollicoffer, was killed in the action.
He had been a member of Congress from Tennessee, and was a man of prominence in the South.
A song soon appeared in commemoration of this battle. It was called "The Happy Land of Canaan,"
and I now remember only one stanza, which is as follows:

        "Old Zolly's gone,
        And Secesh will have to mourn,
    For they thought he would do to depend on;
        But he made his last stand
        On the rolling Cumberland,
    And was sent to the happy land of Canaan."

There was a ringing, rolling chorus to each verse, of course, and which was not at all germane
to the text, and, moreover, as the newspapers sometimes say, is "not adapted for publication,"--so
it will be omitted. Well, I can now shut my eyes and lean back in my chair and let my memory
revert to that far away time, and it just seems to me that I can see and hear Nelse Hegans,
of Co. C, singing that song at night in our quarters at old Camp Carrollton. He was a big,
strong six-footer, about twenty-one years of age, with a deep bass voice that sounded when
singing like the roll of distant thunder. And he was an all-around good fellow. Poor Nelse!
He was mortally wounded by a musket ball in the neck early in the morning of the first day
at Shiloh, and died a few days thereafter.

The health of the boys while at Camp Carrollton was fine. There were a few cases of measles,
but as I remember, none were fatal. Once I caught a bad cold, but I treated it myself with
a backwoods remedy and never thought of going to the surgeon about it. I took some of the bark
of a hickory tree that stood near our quarters, and made about a quart of strong hickory-bark
tea. I drank it hot, and all at once, just before turning in for the night. It was green in
color, and intensely bitter, but it cured the cold.

A few weeks after my enlistment, I was appointed to the position of corporal. There are, or
were in my time, eight corporals in an infantry company, each designated by a number, in numerical
order. I was fifth. I owed this appointment to the friendship and influence of Enoch Wallace,
and this was only one of the countless acts of kindness that he rendered me during my term
of service. I just cannot tell you how proud I was over this modest military office. I am telling
you the truth when I say that I felt more pride and pleasure in being a "Corporal of Co. D"
than I ever did later in the possession of any other office, either military or civil. The
boys framed up a story on me, to the effect that soon after my appointment I was seen in the
rear of the company quarters, stooping over an empty barrel, with my head projected into it
as far as possible, and exclaiming in a deep, guttural tone, "CORPORAL STILLWELL!" "CORPORAL
STILLWELL!" This was being done, so the boys said, in order that I might personally enjoy the
sound. In order to be strictly accurate, I will state that, although the appointment was made
while we were at Carrollton, my official warrant was not issued until our arrival at Benton
Barracks.

The only thing recalled now that was sort of disagreeable at Camp Carrollton was the utter
absence of privacy. Even when off duty, one couldn't get away by himself, and sit down in peace
and quiet anywhere. And as for slipping off into some corner and trying to read, alone, a book
or paper, the thing was impossible. To use a modern expression, there was always "something
doing." Many a time after supper, on very cold nights, when the boys would all be in the barracks,
singing or cutting up, I would sneak out and walk around under the big trees, with the snow
crackling under my feet, for no other purpose whatever than just to be alone a while. But that
condition of things changed for the better after we got down South, and were no longer cooped
up in a forty acre lot.

General Grant gained his great victory at Fort Donelson on February 16, 1862, and the news
reached us a few days later. The boys talked about it with feelings of mingled exultation,--and
mortification. Exultation, of course, over the "glorious victory," but mortification in regard
to its effects and consequences on our future military career. We all thought, from the officers
down, that now the war would end, that we would see no actual service, and never fire a shot.
That we would be discharged, and go home just little "trundle-bed soldiers," and have to sit
around and hear other sure-enough warriors tell the stories of actual war and fighting. If
we only had known, we were borrowing unnecessary trouble,--as we found out later.

Sometime during the last of February, the welcome news was given out from regimental headquarters
that we were soon to leave Camp Carrollton. Our first objective point was to be St. Louis,
Mo., and what next nobody knew. Definite orders for the movement were issued later, and it
then occurred to us that possibly all our recent apprehensions about not seeing any fighting
were somewhat premature.

Right here I will say that in the brief sketch of the regiment published in the reports of
the Adjutant-General of the State of Illinois, the date of our leaving Carrollton is given
as February 21, which is wrong. That date is either a mistake of the person who wrote that
part of the sketch, or a typographical error. I have in my possession, and now lying before
me, a letter I wrote to my father from Benton Barracks, of date March 2, 1862, in which the
date of our arrival at St. Louis is given as February 28th. And I well know that we were only
two days on the trip. And besides the date given in my letter, I distinctly remember several
unwritten facts and circumstances that satisfy me beyond any doubt, that the day we left Carrollton
was February 27, 1862. Early in the morning of that day, the regiment filed out at the big
gate, and marched south on the dirt road. Good-bye to old Camp Carrollton! Many of the boys
never saw it again, and I never have seen it since but once, which was in the summer of 1894.
I was back then in Jersey county, on a sort of a visit, and was taken with a desire to run
up to Carrollton and look at the old camp. There was then a railroad constructed during the
last years of the war, (or about that time), running south from the town, and less than an
hour's ride from Jerseyville, where I was stopping, so I got on a morning train, and, like
Jonah when moved to go to Tarshish, "paid the fare and went." I found the old camp still being
used as a county fair ground, and the same big trees, or the most of them, were there yet,
and looked about as they did thirty-two years before. Of course, every vestige of our old barracks
was gone. I stood around and looked at things awhile,--and thought--then left, and have never
been there again.

The regiment arrived at Jerseyville about sunset. The word had gone out, all through the country,
that Fry's regiment was leaving for the front, and the country people had come to town, from
miles around, in their farm wagons, to have one last look, and bid us good-bye. The regiment,
in column by companies, company distance, marched up the main street running south, and on
reaching the center of the little town, we wheeled into line, dressed on the colors, and stood
at attention. The sidewalks were thronged with the country people all intently scanning the
lines, each little family group anxiously looking for their boy, brother, husband or father,
as the case may have been. (But right here it will be said that the overwhelming majority of
the enlisted men of the regiment, and the most of the line officers, were unmarried.) I was
satisfied that my parents were somewhere among the crowd of spectators, for I had specially
written them as to when we would pass through Jerseyville. I was in the front rank, and kept
my face rigidly fixed to the front, but glanced as best I could up and down the sidewalk, trying
to locate father and mother. Suddenly I saw them, as they struggled to the edge of the walk,
not more than ten feet from me. I had been somewhat dreading the meeting, and the parting that
was to come. I remembered the emotion of my mother when she first saw me in my uniform, and
I feared that now she might break down altogether. But there she stood, her eyes fixed on me
intently, with a proud and happy smile on her face! You see, we were a magnificent-looking
body of young fellows, somewhere between 800 and 900 strong. Our uniforms were clean and comparatively
new, and our faces were ruddy and glowing with health. Besides the regimental colors, each
company, at that time, carried a small flag, which were all fluttering in the breeze, and our
regimental band was playing patriotic tunes at its best. I reckon it was a somewhat inspiring
sight to country people like those who, with possibly very few exceptions, had never seen anything
like that before. Anyhow, my mother was evidently content and glad to see me there, under the
shadow of the flag, and going forth to fight for the old Union, instead of then being sneaking
around at home, like some great hulking boys in our neighborhood who were of Copperhead sympathies
and parentage.

Arrangements had been made to quarter the regiment that night in different public buildings
in the town, and the companies were soon marched to their respective places. Co. D had been
assigned to the Baptist church, and there my parents and I met, and had our final interview.
They were nine miles from home, in the old farm wagon, the roads (in the main) were through
dense woods, and across ridges and hollows, the short winter day was drawing to a close and
night approaching, so our farewell talk was necessarily brief. Our parting was simple and unaffected,
without any display of emotion by anybody. But mother's eyes looked unusually bright, and she
didn't linger after she had said, "Good-bye Leander." As for my father,--he was an old North
Carolinian, born and reared among the Cherokee Indians at the base of the Great Smoky Mountains,
and with him, and all other men of his type, any yielding to "womanish" feelings was looked
on as almost disgraceful. His farewell words were few, and concise, and spoken in his ordinary
tone and manner, he then turned on his heel, and was gone.

Mother left with me a baked chicken, the same being a big, fat hen full of stuffing, rich in
sage and onions; also some mince pie, old time doughnuts, and cucumber pickles. I shared it
all with Bill Banfield (my chum), and we had plenty for supper and breakfast the next day,
with the drum-sticks and some other outlying portions of the chicken for dinner.

Early the next morning we pulled out for Alton, on the Mississippi River. But we did not have
to march much that day. The country people around and near Jerseyville turned out in force
with their farm wagons, and insisted on hauling us to Alton, and their invitations were accepted
with pleasure. A few miles north of Alton we passed what was in those days (and may be yet)
a popular and celebrated school for girls, called the "Monticello Female Seminary." The girls
had heard of our coming, and were all out by the side of the road, a hundred or more, with
red, white and blue ribbons in their hair and otherwise on their persons. They waved white
handkerchiefs and little flags at us, and looked their sweetest. And didn't we cheer them!
Well, I should say so. We stood up in the wagons, and swung our caps, and just whooped and
hurrahed as long as those girls were in sight. We always treasured this incident as a bright,
precious link in the chain of memory, for it was the last public manifestation, of this nature,
of good-will and patriotism from girls and women that was given the regiment until we struck
the soil of the State of Indiana, on our return home some months after the close of the war.

We arrived at Alton about sundown, and at once marched aboard the big side-wheel steamboat,
"City of Alton," which was lying at the wharf waiting for us, and guards were promptly stationed
to prevent the men leaving the boat. But "some one had blundered," and no rations had been
provided for our supper. We were good and hungry, too, for our dinner, at least that of Co.
D, consisted only of the left-over scraps of breakfast. But the officers got busy and went
up town and bought, with their own money, something for us to eat. My company was furnished
a barrel of oyster crackers, called in those days "butter crackers," and our drink was river water.

The novelty and excitement of the last two days had left me nerveless and tired out, and to
tell the truth, I was feeling the first touch of "home-sickness." So, after supper I went up
on the hurricane deck of the boat, spread my blanket on the floor, and with my knapsack for
a pillow, laid down and soon fell asleep. The boat did not leave Alton until after dark, and
when it pulled out, the scream of the whistle, the dashing of the paddles, and the throbbing
and crash of the engines, aroused me from my slumber. I sat up and looked around and watched
the lights of Alton as they twinkled and glimmered in the darkness, until they were lost to
sight by a bend in the river. Then I laid down and went to sleep again, and did not wake until
daylight the next morning, and found that our boat was moored to the wharf at St. Louis. We
soon debarked, and marched out to Benton Barracks, which were clear out of town and beyond
the suburbs. The shape of Benton Barracks, as I now remember, was a big oblong square. The
barracks themselves consisted of a continuous connected row of low frame buildings, the quarters
of each company being separated from the others by frame partitions, and provided with two
rows of bunks around the sides and ends. At the rear of the quarters of each company was the
company kitchen. It was a detached, separate frame structure, and amply provided with accommodations
for cooking, including a brick furnace with openings for camp kettles, pots, boilers and the
like. Both barracks and kitchen were comfortable and convenient, and greatly superior to our
home-made shacks at Carrollton. The barracks inclosed a good sized tract of land, but its extent
I do not now remember. This space was used for drilling and parades, and was almost entirely
destitute of trees. The commander of the post, at that time, was Colonel Benjamin L. E. Bonneville,
an old regular army officer, and who had been a noted western explorer in his younger days.
I frequently saw him riding about the grounds. He was a little dried-up old Frenchman, and
had no military look about him whatever. All the same, he was a man who had, as a soldier,
done long and faithful service for his adopted country. Should you ever want to post up on
him (if you have not already done so), read "Adventures of Captain Bonneville, U.S.A., in the
Rocky Mountains and the Far West," by Washington Irving. You will find it deeply interesting.

We remained at Benton Barracks about four weeks. Life there was monotonous and void of any
special interest. We drilled but little, as I now remember, the reason for that being it rained
the most of the time we were there and the drill grounds were oceans of mud. The drainage was
wretched, and the most of the rain that fell stayed on the surface until the ground soaked
it up. And how it did rain at Benton Barracks in March, 1862! While there, I found in some
recently vacated quarters an old tattered, paper bound copy of Dickens' "Bleak House," and
on those rainy days I would climb up in my bunk (an upper one), and lie there and read that
book. Some of the aristocratic characters mentioned therein had a country residence called
"Chesney Wold," where it seemed it always rained. To quote (in substance) from the book, "The
rain was ever falling, drip, drip, drip, by day and night," at "the place in Lincolnshire."
'Twas even so at Benton Barracks. When weary of reading, I would turn and look a while through
the little window at the side of my bunk that gave a view of the most of the square which the
barracks inclosed. The surface of the earth was just a quagmire of mud and water, and nothing
stirring abroad could be seen save occasionally a mounted orderly, splashing at a gallop across
the grounds. Since then I have frequently read "Bleak House," and whenever that chapter is
reached depicting the rainy weather at the Dedlock place, I can again see, and smell, and hear,
and feel, those gloomy wearisome conditions at Benton Barracks of over half a century ago.
I have read, somewhere in Gen. Sherman's Memoirs, a statement in substance to the effect that
rain in camp has a depressing effect upon soldiers, but is enlivening to them on a march. From
personal experience I know that observation to be true. Many a time while on a march we would
be caught in heavy rains. The dirt road would soon be worked into a loblolly of sticky yellow
mud. Thereupon we would take off our shoes and socks, tie them to the barrel of our muskets
a little below the muzzle and just above the end of the stock, poise the piece on the hammer
on either shoulder, stock uppermost, and roll up our breeches to the knees. Then like Tam O'Shanter,
we "skelpit on through dub and mire, despising wind, and rain, and fire," and singing "John
Brown's Body," or whatever else came handy. But rainy days in camp, especially such as we had
at Benton Barracks, engender feelings of gloom and dejection that have to be experienced in
order to be realized. They are just too wretched for any adequate description.

One day while strolling around the grounds sight seeing, I fell in with a soldier who said
he belonged to the 14th Wisconsin Infantry. He was some years older than me, but was quite
sociable, and seemed to be a sensible, intelligent fellow. He was full of talk about his regiment,--said
they were nearly all young men, big stalwart lumbermen from the pine woods of Wisconsin, and
urged me to come around some evening when they were on dress parade, and look at them. I had
found out by this time that almost every soldier would brag about his regiment, so allowance
was made for what he said. But he excited my curiosity to see those Wisconsin boys, so one
evening when I was at liberty, I did go and view them while they were on dress parade, and
found that the soldier had not exaggerated. They were great, tall fellows, broad across the
shoulders and chest, with big limbs. Altogether, they simply were, from a physical standpoint,
the finest looking soldiers I ever saw during my entire term of service. I speak now of this
incident and of these men, for the reason that later I may say something more about this 14th
Wisconsin.

While at Benton Barracks we were given our regimental number,--Sixty-first--and thenceforth
the regiment was known and designated as the Sixty-first Illinois Infantry. We also drew our
guns. We were furnished with the Austrian rifle musket. It was of medium length, with a light
brown walnut stock,--and was a wicked shooter. At that time the most of the western troops
were armed with foreign-made muskets, imported from Europe. Many regiments had old Belgian
muskets, a heavy, cumbersome piece, and awkward and unsatisfactory every way. We were glad
to get the Austrians, and were quite proud of them. We used these until June, 1863, when we
turned them in and drew in lieu thereof the Springfield rifle musket of the model of 1863.
It was not as heavy as the Austrian, was neater looking, and a very efficient firearm. No further
change was made, and we carried the Springfield thenceforward until we were mustered out.

It was also here at Benton Barracks that the mustering of the regiment into the service of
the United States was completed. Ten companies, at that time, constituted a regiment of infantry,
but ours had only nine. We lacked Company K, and it was not recruited, and did not join the
regiment until in March, 1864. On account of our not having a full regiment, Col. Fry (as we
always called him) was commissioned as Lieutenant Colonel only, which was his rank all the
time he was with us, and Capt. Simon P. Ohr, of Co. A, was commissioned Major. Owing to our
lack of one company, and the further fact that when that company did join us the other companies
had become much depleted in numbers, the regiment therefore never had an officer of the full
rank of Colonel until the summer of 1865, when it became entitled to one under the circumstances
which will be stated further on.

On March 25th we left Benton Barracks for the front. We marched through St. Louis and onto
the steamboat that day, but from some cause I never knew, the boat did not leave the wharf
until about dark the next evening. My company was quartered on the hurricane deck of the boat.
Soon after the boat started down the river an incident befell me that looks somewhat comical
now, but at that time it was to me a serious matter, and one that troubled my conscience a
good deal. I had piled my knapsack, with the blanket strapped on the outside, and my other
stuff, at the foot of the gun stack which included my musket. Suddenly I discovered, to my
great consternation, that my blanket was gone! Yes, my lords and gentlemen, some "false Scot"
had deliberately and feloniously appropriated my indispensable equipment for a night's repose.
And a long, raw March night was coming on, and the damp and chilly air was rising, like a fog,
from the cold surface of the river. All signs, too, portended a rainy night. The thunder was
muttering off in the southwest, intermittent flashes of lightning lit up the sky, and scattering
drops of rain were even then beginning to patter on the hurricane deck and ripple the bosom
of the stream. What should I do? I must have a blanket, that was certain. But all my life the
belief had been instilled into me that stealing was well-nigh the most disgraceful of all crimes,
and that a thief was a most odious and contemptible wretch. Moreover, one of the ten commandments
"pintedly" declared. "Thou shalt not steal." But something had to be done, and speedily. At
last it occurred to me that being a soldier, and belonging for the time being to Uncle Sam,
I was a species of government property, which it was my duty to protect at all hazards. That
settled the question, and conscience and honesty withdrew. Without going into the demoralizing
details, suffice it to say that I stole a blanket from some hapless victim belonging to another
company, and thus safeguarded the health and military efficiency of a chattel of the Nation.
How the other fellow got along, I don't know. I made no impertinent inquiries, and, during
the day time, indefinitely thereafter, kept that blanket in my knapsack, carefully concealed
from prying eyes. But it will be recorded here that this was the only act of downright larceny
that I committed during my entire term of service, except the gobbling of a couple of onions,
which maybe I'll mention later. Of course I helped myself many times, while on the march, or
on picket, to roasting ears, sweet potatoes, apples, and the like, but that came under the
head of legitimate foraging, and was sanctioned by the military authorities.

The night we left St. Louis I had my first impressive object lesson showing the difference
between the conditions of the commissioned officers and the enlisted men. I had spread my blanket
at the base of the little structure called the "Texas," on which the pilot house stands. All
around the bottom of the "Texas" was a row of small window lights that commanded a view of
the interior of the boat's cabin below, and I only had to turn my head and look in and down,
to see what was passing. The officers were seated in cushioned chairs, or sauntering around
over the carpeted and brilliantly lighted room, while their supper was being prepared. Colored
waiters dressed in white uniforms were bringing in the eatables, and when all was ready, a
gong was sounded and the officers seated themselves at the table. And just look at the good
things they had to eat! Fried ham and beefsteak, hot biscuits, butter, molasses, big boiled
Irish potatoes steaming hot, fragrant coffee served with cream, in cups and saucers, and some
minor goodies in the shape of preserves and the like. And how savory those good things smelled!--for
I was where I could get the benefit of that. And there were the officers, in the warm, lighted
cabin, seated at a table, with nigger waiters to serve them, feasting on that splendid fare!
Why, it was the very incarnation of bodily comfort and enjoyment! And, when the officers should
be ready to retire for the night, warm and cozy berths awaited them, where they would stretch
their limbs on downy quilts and mattresses, utterly oblivious to the wet and chill on the outside.
Then I turned my head and took in my surroundings! A black, cold night, cinders and soot drifting
on us from the smoke stacks, and a drizzling rain pattering down. And my supper had consisted
of hardtack and raw sow-belly, with river water for a beverage, of the vintage, say, of 1541.
And to aggravate the situation generally, I was lying on a blanket which a military necessity
had compelled me to steal. But I reflected that we couldn't all be officers,--there had to
be somebody to do the actual trigger-pulling. And I further consoled myself with the thought
that while the officers had more privileges than the common soldiers, they likewise had more
responsibilities, and had to worry their brains about many things that didn't bother us a particle.
So I smothered all envious feelings as best I could, and wrapping myself up good in my blanket,
went to sleep, and all night long slept the unbroken, dreamless sleep of youth and health.

The weather cleared up that night, and the next day was fine, and we all felt in better spirits.
Our surroundings were new and strange, and we were thrilling with excitement and bright hopes
of the future. The great majority of us were simple country boys, who had so far passed our
lives in a narrow circle in the backwoods. As for myself, before enlisting in the army I had
never been more than fifty miles from home, had not traveled any on a steamboat, and my few
short railroad trips did not amount, in the aggregate, to more than about seventy-five miles,
back and forth. But now the contracted horizon of the "Whippoorwill Ridges" adjacent to the
old home had suddenly expanded, and a great big wonderful world was unfolding to my view. And
there was the daring, heroic life on which we were entering! No individual boy expected that
he would be killed, or meet with any other adverse fate. Others might, and doubtless would,
but he would come out safe and sound, and return home at the end of a victorious war, a military
hero, and as such would be looked up to, and admired and reverenced, all the rest of his life.
At any rate, such were my thoughts, and I have no doubt whatever that ninety-nine out of a
hundred of the other boys thought the same.

On the afternoon of this day (March 27th) we arrived at Cairo, rounded in at the wharf, and
remained a short time. The town fronted on the Ohio river, which was high at the time, as also
was the Mississippi. The appearance of Cairo was wretched. Levees had been constructed to protect
it from high water, but notwithstanding the streets and the grounds generally were just a foul,
stagnant swamp. Engines were at work pumping the surface water into the river through pipes
in the levee; otherwise I reckon everybody would have been drowned out. Charles Dickens saw
this locality in the spring of 1842 when on a visit to America, and it figures in "Martin Chuzzlewit,"
under the name of "Eden." I never read that book until after the close of the war, but have
several times since, and will say that if the Eden of 1842 looked anything like the Cairo of
twenty years later, his description thereof was fully warranted.

Our boat had hardly got moored to the wharf before the word went round that some Confederate
prisoners were on the transport on our right, and we forthwith rushed to that side to get our
first look at the "Secesh," as we then called them. It was only a small batch, about a hundred
or so. They were under guard, and on the after part of the lower deck, along the sides and
the stern of the boat. We ascertained that they were about the last installment of the Fort
Donelson prisoners, and were being shipped to a northern military prison. Naturally, we scanned
them with great curiosity, and the boys soon began to joke and chaff them in a perfectly good
natured way. They took this silently, with no other manifestation than an occasional dry grin.
But finally, a rather good looking young fellow cocked his eyes toward us and in a soft, drawling
tone called out, "You-all will sing a different tune by next summah." Our boys responded to
this with bursts of laughter and some derisive whoops; but later we found out that the young
Confederate soldier was a true prophet.

Our halt at Cairo was brief; the boat soon cast off and proceeded up the Ohio to the mouth
of the Tennessee, and from thence up that river. Some time the next day we passed Fort Henry.
We had read of its capture the month previous by the joint operations of our army and navy,
and were all curious to see this Confederate stronghold, where a mere handful of men had put
up such a plucky fight. My ideas of forts at that time had all been drawn from pictures in
books which depicted old-time fortresses, and from descriptions in Scott's "Marmion" of ancient
feudal castles like "Tantallon strong," and the like. And when we approached Fort Henry I fully
expected to see some grand, imposing structure with "battled towers," "donjon keep," "portcullis,"
"drawbridges," and what not, and perhaps some officer of high rank with a drawn sword, strutting
about on the ramparts and occasionally shouting, at the top of his voice, "What, warder, ho!"
or words to that effect. But, to my utter amazement and disgust, when we steamed up opposite
Fort Henry I saw only a little squatty, insignificant looking mud affair, without the slightest
feature of any of the "pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war." It had been built on
the low bottom ground near the bank of the Tennessee river, the stream was now high, and the
adjacent land was largely covered with water, while the inside of the fort looked a good deal
like a hog pen. I couldn't imagine how such a contemptible looking thing had stood off our
gunboats as long as it did. But I did not know then that just such works, with earthen walls,
were the strongest and best defenses against modern artillery that could be constructed. In
fact, what I didn't know about war, at that stage of the proceedings, was broad and comprehensive,
and covered the whole field.

As we journeyed up the Tennessee we began to notice queer-looking green bunches of something
on the trees. As the forest had not yet put forth its foliage, we knew that growth could not
be leaves, and were puzzled to imagine what it could be. But we finally learned from some of
the boat's crew that it was mistletoe. So far as I knew none of the private soldiers had ever
before seen that curious evergreen, and it was to us a strange curiosity. But we got well acquainted
with it later.

We arrived at Pittsburg Landing on the evening of March 31, about sundown. On going into camp
in our position upon the line, for the first time in our service we dwelt in tents. We had
what was called the Sibley tent, an affair of a conical shape, rather large, and capable of
accommodating about twelve men, with their accoutrements. As a circumstance bearing on our
ignorance of life in tents, I will say that we neglected to ditch around them, and on the very
first night we slept in them there came a heavy rain, and the next morning found us lying more
or less in the water, and our blankets and other stuff sopping wet. But after that, on pitching
our tents one of the first things we did was to dig around them a sufficient ditch with a lateral
extension.

I retain a vivid recollection of the kind of army cooking we had for the first few months in
Tennessee. At Camp Carrollton and Benton Barracks we had company cooks who prepared the food
for the entire company. They were merely enlisted men, detailed for that purpose, and while
their cooking was nothing to brag about, it was vastly superior to what now ensued. We divided
up into messes, of four, eight, or twelve men, or thereabouts, to the mess, and generally would
take turns in the culinary line. Very few of us knew anything whatever about cooking, and our
exploits in that regard would have been comical if the effects had not been so pernicious.
Flour was issued to us after our arrival at Pittsburg Landing, but we had no utensils in which
we could cook biscuits, or loaves. So we would make a batter out of flour, water, grease, and
salt, and cook it in a mess pan, the product being the army "flapjack." It invariably was tough
as a mule's ear, about as heavy as lead, and very indigestible. Later we learned to construct
ovens of wood, daubed with mud, or of stone, and in them, in the course of time, we acquired
the knack of baking good bread. But with us in the west the hardtack was generally our standard
bread diet, and nothing could beat it.

And for some time our cooking of "Yankee beans," as we called them, was simply atrocious. As
you know, beans should be cooked until they are thoroughly done; otherwise they are decidedly
harmful. Well, we would not cook them much more than half enough, the result being a sloppy,
slimy mess, its looks alone being well-nigh sufficient to extinguish one's appetite. And as
for the rice--the horrible messes we would make of that defy description. I know that one consequence
with me was I contracted such an aversion to rice that for many years afterwards, while in
civil life, I just couldn't eat it in any form, no matter how temptingly it was prepared.

Owing to improperly cooked food, change of climate and of water, and neglect of proper sanitation
measures in the camps, camp diarrhea became epidemic at Pittsburg Landing, especially among
the "green" regiments like ours. And for about six weeks everybody suffered, more or less,
the difference being only in degree. The fact is, the condition of the troops in that quarter
during the prevalence of that disorder was simply so bad and repulsive that any detailed description
thereof will be passed over. I never saw the like before, and never have seen it since. I always
thought that one thing which aggravated this trouble was the inordinate quantity of sugar some
of the men would consume. They would not only use it to excess in their coffee and rice, but
would frequently eat it raw, by handfuls. I happen to think, right now, of an incident that
illustrates the unnatural appetite of some of the men for sugar. It occurred in camp one rainy
day during the siege of Corinth. Jake Hill, of my company, had covered the top of a big army
hardtack with sugar in a cone-like form, piling it on as long as the tack would hold a grain.
Then he seated himself on his knapsack and proceeded to gnaw away at his feast, by a system
of "regular approaches." He was even then suffering from the epidemic before mentioned, and
so weak he could hardly walk. Some one said to him, "Jake, that sugar ain't good for you in
your condition." He looked up with an aggrieved air and responded in a tone of cruelly injured
innocence, "Haven't I the right to eat my r-a-a-tion?" Strange to say, Jake got well, and served
throughout the war. He was a good soldier, too.

For my part, I quit using sugar in any form, early in my army service, (except a little, occasionally,
with stewed fruit, or berries,) and didn't resume its general use until some years after my
discharge from the army.

In consequence of the conditions at Pittsburg Landing that have been alluded to, men died by
the score like rotten sheep. And a great many more were discharged for disability and thereby
were lost to the service. It is true that some of these discharged men, especially the younger
ones, subsequently re-enlisted, and made good soldiers. But this loss to the Union armies in
Tennessee in the spring of '62 by disease would undoubtedly surpass the casualties of a great
battle, but, unlike a battle, there was no resulting compensation whatever.

The battle of Shiloh was fought on April 6 and 7. In 1890 I wrote an article on the battle
which was published in the New York Tribune, and later it appeared in several other newspapers.
It has also been reprinted in book form in connection with papers by other persons, some about
the war, and others of a miscellaneous nature. The piece I wrote twenty-five years ago is as
good, I reckon, if not better than anything on that head I can write now, so it will be set
out here.

    IN THE RANKS AT SHILOH.

    By Leander Stillwell,
    late First Lieutenant, 61st Illinois Volunteer Infantry.

    There has been a great deal said and written about the battle of
    Shiloh, both by Rebel and Union officers and writers. On the part
    of the first there has been, and probably always will be, angry
    dispute and criticism about the conduct of General Beauregard in
    calling off his troops Sunday evening while fully an hour of broad,
    precious daylight still remained, which, as claimed by some, might
    have been utilized in destroying the remainder of Grant's army
    before Buell could have crossed the Tennessee. On the part of Union
    writers the matters most discussed have been as to whether or not
    our forces were surprised, the condition of Grant's army at the
    close of the first day, what the result would have been without the
    aid of the gunboats, or if Buell's army had not come, and kindred
    subjects. It is not my purpose, in telling my story of the battle
    of Shiloh, to say anything that will add to this volume of
    discussion. My age at the time was but eighteen, and my position
    that of a common soldier in the ranks. It would therefore be
    foolish in me to assume the part of a critic. The generals, who,
    from reasonably safe points of observation, are sweeping the field
    with their glasses, and noting and directing the movements of the
    lines of battle, must, in the nature of things, be the ones to
    furnish the facts that go to make history. The extent of a
    battlefield seen by the common soldier is that only which comes
    within the range of the raised sights of his musket. And what
    little he does see is as "through a glass, darkly." The dense banks
    of powder smoke obstruct his gaze; he catches but fitful glimpses
    of his adversaries as the smoke veers or rises.

    Then, too, my own experience makes me think that where the common
    soldier does his duty, all his faculties of mind and body are
    employed in attending to the details of his own personal part of
    the work of destruction, and there is but little time left him for
    taking mental notes to form the bases of historical articles a
    quarter of a century afterward. The handling, tearing, and charging
    of his cartridge, ramming it home (we used muzzle loaders during
    the Civil War), the capping of his gun, the aiming and firing, with
    furious haste and desperate energy,--for every shot may be his
    last,--these things require the soldier's close personal attention
    and make him oblivious to matters transpiring beyond his immediate
    neighborhood. Moreover, his sense of hearing is well-nigh overcome
    by the deafening uproar going on around him. The incessant and
    terrible crash of musketry, the roar of the cannon, the continual
    zip, zip, of the bullets as they hiss by him, interspersed with the
    agonizing screams of the wounded, or the death shrieks of comrades
    falling in dying convulsions right in the face of the
    living,--these things are not conducive to that serene and judicial
    mental equipoise which the historian enjoys in his closet.

    Let the generals and historians, therefore, write of the movements
    of corps, divisions, and brigades. I have naught to tell but the
    simple story of what one private soldier saw of one of the
    bloodiest battles of the war.

    The regiment to which I belonged was the 61st Illinois Infantry. It
    left its camp of instruction (a country town in southern Illinois)
    about the last of February, 1862. We were sent to Benton Barracks,
    near St. Louis, and remained there drilling (when the weather would
    permit) until March 25th. We left on that day for the front. It was
    a cloudy, drizzly, and most gloomy day, as we marched through the
    streets of St. Louis down to the levee, to embark on a transport
    that was to take us to our destination. The city was enveloped in
    that pall of coal smoke for which St. Louis is celebrated. It hung
    heavy and low and set us all to coughing. I think the colonel must
    have marched us down some by-street. It was narrow and dirty, with
    high buildings on either side. The line officers took the
    sidewalks, while the regiment, marching by the flank, tramped in
    silence down the middle of the street, slumping through the nasty,
    slimy mud. There was one thing very noticeable on this march
    through St. Louis, and that was the utter lack of interest taken in
    us by the inhabitants. From pictures I had seen in books at home,
    my idea was that when soldiers departed for war, beautiful ladies
    stood on balconies and waved snowy-white handkerchiefs at the
    troops, while the men stood on the sidewalks and corners and swung
    their hats and cheered.

    There may have been regiments so favored, but ours was not one of
    them. Occasionally a fat, chunky-looking fellow, of a German cast
    of countenance, with a big pipe in his mouth, would stick his head
    out of a door or window, look at us a few seconds, and then
    disappear. No handkerchiefs nor hats were waved, we heard no
    cheers. My thoughts at the time were that the Union people there
    had all gone to war, or else the colonel was marching us through a
    "Secesh" part of town.

    We marched to the levee and from there on board the big sidewheel
    steamer, Empress. The next evening she unfastened her moorings,
    swung her head out into the river, turned down stream, and we were
    off for the "seat of war." We arrived at Pittsburg Landing on March
    31st. Pittsburg Landing, as its name indicates, was simply a
    landing place for steamboats. It is on the west bank of the
    Tennessee river, in a thickly wooded region about twenty miles
    northeast of Corinth. There was no town there then, nothing but
    "the log house on the hill" that the survivors of the battle of
    Shiloh will all remember. The banks of the Tennessee on the
    Pittsburg Landing side are steep and bluffy, rising about 100 feet
    above the level of the river. Shiloh church, that gave the battle
    its name, was a Methodist meeting house. It was a small, hewed log
    building with a clapboard roof, about two miles out from the
    landing on the main Corinth road. On our arrival we were assigned
    to the division of General B. M. Prentiss, and we at once marched
    out and went into camp. About half a mile from the landing the road
    forks, the main Corinth road goes to the right, past Shiloh church,
    the other goes to the left. These two roads come together again
    some miles out. General Prentiss' division was camped on this
    left-hand road at right angles to it. Our regiment went into camp
    almost on the extreme left of Prentiss' line. There was a brigade
    of Sherman's division under General Stuart still further to the
    left, about a mile, I think, in camp near a ford of Lick Creek,
    where the Hamburg and Purdy road crosses the creek; and between the
    left of Prentiss' and General Stuart's camp there were no troops. I
    know that, for during the few days intervening between our arrival
    and the battle I roamed all through those woods on our left,
    between us and Stuart, hunting for wild onions and "turkey peas."

    The camp of our regiment was about two miles from the landing. The
    tents were pitched in the woods, and there was a little field of
    about twenty acres in our front. The camp faced nearly west, or
    possibly southwest.

    I shall never forget how glad I was to get off that old steamboat
    and be on solid ground once more, in camp out in those old woods.
    My company had made the trip from St. Louis to Pittsburg Landing on
    the hurricane deck of the steamboat, and our fare on the route had
    been hardtack and raw fat meat, washed down with river water, as we
    had no chance to cook anything, and we had not then learned the
    trick of catching the surplus hot water ejected from the boilers
    and making coffee with it. But once on solid ground, with plenty of
    wood to make fires, that bill of fare was changed. I shall never
    again eat meat that will taste as good as the fried "sowbelly" did
    then, accompanied by "flapjacks" and plenty of good, strong coffee.
    We had not yet got settled down to the regular drills, guard duty
    was light, and things generally seemed to run "kind of loose." And
    then the climate was delightful. We had just left the bleak, frozen
    north, where all was cold and cheerless, and we found ourselves in
    a clime where the air was as soft and warm as it was in Illinois in
    the latter part of May. The green grass was springing from the
    ground, the "Johnny-jump-ups" were in blossom, the trees were
    bursting into leaf, and the woods were full of feathered songsters.
    There was a redbird that would come every morning about sunup and
    perch himself in the tall black-oak tree in our company street, and
    for perhaps an hour he would practice on his impatient, querulous
    note, that said, as plain as a bird could say, "Boys, boys! get up!
    get up! get up!" It became a standing remark among the boys that he
    was a Union redbird and had enlisted in our regiment to sound the
    reveille.

    So the time passed pleasantly away until that eventful Sunday
    morning, April 6, 1862. According to the Tribune Almanac for that
    year, the sun rose that morning in Tennessee at 38 minutes past
    five o'clock. I had no watch, but I have always been of the opinion
    that the sun was fully an hour and a half high before the fighting
    began on our part of the line. We had "turned out" about sunup,
    answered to roll-call, and had cooked and eaten our breakfast. We
    had then gone to work, preparing for the regular Sunday morning
    inspection, which would take place at nine o'clock. The boys were
    scattered around the company streets and in front of the company
    parade grounds, engaged in polishing and brightening their muskets,
    and brushing up and cleaning their shoes, jackets, trousers, and
    clothing generally. It was a most beautiful morning. The sun was
    shining brightly through the trees, and there was not a cloud in
    the sky. It really seemed like Sunday in the country at home.
    During week days there was a continual stream of army wagons going
    to and from the landing, and the clucking of their wheels, the
    yells and oaths of the drivers, the cracking of whips, mingled with
    the braying of mules, the neighing of the horses, the commands of
    the officers engaged in drilling the men, the incessant hum and
    buzz of the camps, the blare of bugles, and the roll of drums,--all
    these made up a prodigious volume of sound that lasted from the
    coming-up to the going-down of the sun. But this morning was
    strangely still. The wagons were silent, the mules were peacefully
    munching their hay, and the army teamsters were giving us a rest. I
    listened with delight to the plaintive, mournful tones of a
    turtle-dove in the woods close by, while on the dead limb of a tall
    tree right in the camp a woodpecker was sounding his "long roll"
    just as I had heard it beaten by his Northern brothers a thousand
    times on the trees in the Otter Creek bottom at home.

    Suddenly, away off on the right, in the direction of Shiloh church,
    came a dull, heavy "Pum!" then another, and still another. Every
    man sprung to his feet as if struck by an electric shock, and we
    looked inquiringly into one another's faces. "What is that?" asked
    every one, but no one answered. Those heavy booms then came thicker
    and faster, and just a few seconds after we heard that first dull,
    ominous growl off to the southwest, came a low, sullen, continuous
    roar. There was no mistaking that sound. That was not a squad of
    pickets emptying their guns on being relieved from duty; it was the
    continuous roll of thousands of muskets, and told us that a battle
    was on.

    What I have been describing just now occurred during a few seconds
    only, and with the roar of musketry the long roll began to beat in
    our camp. Then ensued a scene of desperate haste, the like of which
    I certainly had never seen before, nor ever saw again. I remember
    that in the midst of this terrible uproar and confusion, while the
    boys were buckling on their cartridge boxes, and before even the
    companies had been formed, a mounted staff officer came galloping
    wildly down the line from the right. He checked and whirled his
    horse sharply around right in our company street, the iron-bound
    hoofs of his steed crashing among the tin plates lying in a little
    pile where my mess had eaten its breakfast that morning. The horse
    was flecked with foam and its eyes and nostrils were red as blood.
    The officer cast one hurried glance around him, and exclaimed: "My
    God! this regiment not in line yet! They have been fighting on the
    right over an hour!" And wheeling his horse, he disappeared in the
    direction of the colonel's tent.

    I know now that history says the battle began about 4:30 that
    morning; that it was brought on by a reconnoitering party sent out
    early that morning by General Prentiss; that General Sherman's
    division on the right was early advised of the approach of the
    Rebel army, and got ready to meet them in ample time. I have read
    these things in books and am not disputing them, but am simply
    telling the story of an enlisted man on the left of Prentiss' line
    as to what he saw and knew of the condition of things at about
    seven o'clock that morning.

    Well, the companies were formed, we marched out on the regimental
    parade ground, and the regiment was formed in line. The command was
    given: "Load at will; load!" We had anticipated this, however, as
    the most of us had instinctively loaded our guns before we had
    formed company. All this time the roar on the right was getting
    nearer and louder. Our old colonel rode up close to us, opposite
    the center of the regimental line, and called out, "Attention,
    battalion!" We fixed our eyes on him to hear what was coming. It
    turned out to be the old man's battle harangue.

    "Gentlemen," said he, in a voice that every man in the regiment
    heard, "remember your State, and do your duty today like brave
    men."

    That was all. A year later in the war the old man doubtless would
    have addressed us as "soldiers," and not as "gentlemen," and he
    would have omitted his allusion to the "State," which smacked a
    little of Confederate notions. However, he was a Douglas Democrat,
    and his mind was probably running on Buena Vista, in the Mexican
    war, where, it is said, a Western regiment acted badly, and threw a
    cloud over the reputation for courage of the men of that State
    which required the thunders of the Civil War to disperse.
    Immediately after the colonel had given us his brief exhortation,
    the regiment was marched across the little field I have before
    mentioned, and we took our place in line of battle, the woods in
    front of us, and the open field in our rear. We "dressed on" the
    colors, ordered arms, and stood awaiting the attack. By this time
    the roar on the right had become terrific. The Rebel army was
    unfolding its front, and the battle was steadily advancing in our
    direction. We could begin to see the blue rings of smoke curling
    upward among the trees off to the right, and the pungent smell of
    burning gun-powder filled the air. As the roar came travelling down
    the line from the right it reminded me (only it was a million times
    louder) of the sweep of a thunder-shower in summer-time over the
    hard ground of a stubble-field.

    And there we stood, in the edge of the woods, so still, waiting for
    the storm to break on us. I know mighty well what I was thinking
    about then. My mind's eye was fixed on a little log cabin, far away
    to the north, in the backwoods of western Illinois. I could see my
    father sitting on the porch, reading the little local newspaper
    brought from the post-office the evening before. There was my
    mother getting my little brothers ready for Sunday-school; the old
    dog lying asleep in the sun; the hens cackling about the barn; all
    these things and a hundred other tender recollections rushed into
    my mind. I am not ashamed to say now that I would willingly have
    given a general quit-claim deed for every jot and tittle of
    military glory falling to me, past, present, and to come, if I only
    could have been miraculously and instantaneously set down in the
    yard of that peaceful little home, a thousand miles away from the
    haunts of fighting men.

    The time we thus stood, waiting the attack, could not have exceeded
    five minutes. Suddenly, obliquely to our right, there was a long,
    wavy flash of bright light, then another, and another! It was the
    sunlight shining on gun barrels and bayonets--and--there they were
    at last! A long brown line, with muskets at a right shoulder shift,
    in excellent order, right through the woods they came.

    We began firing at once. From one end of the regiment to the other
    leaped a sheet of red flame, and the roar that went up from the
    edge of that old field doubtless advised General Prentiss of the
    fact that the Rebels had at last struck the extreme left of his
    line. We had fired but two or three rounds when, for some
    reason,--I never knew what,--we were ordered to fall back across
    the field, and did so. The whole line, so far as I could see to the
    right, went back. We halted on the other side of the field, in the
    edge of the woods, in front of our tents, and again began firing.
    The Rebels, of course, had moved up and occupied the line we had
    just abandoned. And here we did our first hard fighting during the
    day. Our officers said, after the battle was over, that we held
    this line an hour and ten minutes. How long it was I do not know. I
    "took no note of time."

    We retreated from this position as our officers afterward said,
    because the troops on our right had given way, and we were flanked.
    Possibly those boys on our right would give the same excuse for
    their leaving, and probably truly, too. Still, I think we did not
    fall back a minute too soon. As I rose from the comfortable log
    from behind which a bunch of us had been firing, I saw men in gray
    and brown clothes, with trailed muskets, running through the camp
    on our right, and I saw something else, too, that sent a chill all
    through me. It was a kind of flag I had never seen before. It was a
    gaudy sort of thing, with red bars. It flashed over me in a second
    that that thing was a Rebel flag. It was not more than sixty yards
    to the right. The smoke around it was low and dense and kept me
    from seeing the man who was carrying it, but I plainly saw the
    banner. It was going fast, with a jerky motion, which told me that
    the bearer was on a double-quick. About that time we left. We
    observed no kind of order in leaving; the main thing was to get out
    of there as quick as we could. I ran down our company street, and
    in passing the big Sibley tent of our mess I thought of my knapsack
    with all my traps and belongings, including that precious little
    packet of letters from home. I said to myself, "I will save my
    knapsack, anyhow;" but one quick backward glance over my left
    shoulder made me change my mind, and I went on. I never saw my
    knapsack or any of its contents afterwards.

    Our broken forces halted and re-formed about half a mile to the
    rear of our camp on the summit of a gentle ridge, covered with
    thick brush. I recognized our regiment by the little gray pony the
    old colonel rode, and hurried to my place in the ranks. Standing
    there with our faces once more to the front, I saw a seemingly
    endless column of men in blue, marching by the flank, who were
    filing off to the right through the woods, and I heard our old
    German adjutant, Cramer, say to the colonel, "Dose are de troops of
    Sheneral Hurlbut. He is forming a new line dere in de bush." I
    exclaimed to myself from the bottom of my heart, "Bully for General
    Hurlbut and the new line in the bush! Maybe we'll whip 'em yet." I
    shall never forget my feelings about this time. I was astonished at
    our first retreat in the morning across the field back to our camp,
    but it occurred to me that maybe that was only "strategy" and all
    done on purpose; but when we had to give up our camp, and actually
    turn our backs and run half a mile, it seemed to me that we were
    forever disgraced, and I kept thinking to myself: "What will they
    say about this at home?"

    I was very dry for a drink, and as we were doing nothing just then,
    I slipped out of ranks and ran down to the little hollow in our
    rear, in search of water. Finding a little pool, I threw myself on
    the ground and took a copious draught. As I rose to my feet, I
    observed an officer about a rod above me also quenching his thirst,
    holding his horse meanwhile by the bridle. As he rose I saw it was
    our old adjutant. At no other time would I have dared accost him
    unless in the line of duty, but the situation made me bold.
    "Adjutant," I said, "What does this mean--our having to run this
    way? Ain't we whipped?" He blew the water from his mustache, and
    quickly answered in a careless way: "Oh, no; dat is all ride. We
    yoost fall back to form on the reserve. Sheneral Buell vas now
    crossing der river mit 50,000 men, and vill be here pooty quick;
    and Sheneral Lew Vallace is coming from Crump's Landing mit 15,000
    more. Ve vips 'em; ve vips 'em. Go to your gompany." Back I went on
    the run, with a heart as light as a feather. As I took my place in
    the ranks beside my chum, Jack Medford, I said to him: "Jack, I've
    just had a talk with the old adjutant, down at the branch where
    I've been to get a drink. He says Buell is crossing the river with
    75,000 men and a whole world of cannon, and that some other general
    is coming up from Crump's Landing with 25,000 more men. He says we
    fell back here on purpose, and that we're going to whip the Secesh,
    just sure. Ain't that just perfectly bully?" I had improved some on
    the adjutant's figures, as the news was so glorious I thought a
    little variance of 25,000 or 30,000 men would make no difference in
    the end. But as the long hours wore on that day, and still Buell
    and Wallace did not come, my faith in the adjutant's veracity
    became considerably shaken.

    It was at this point that my regiment was detached from Prentiss'
    division and served with it no more that day. We were sent some
    distance to the right to support a battery, the name of which I
    never learned.[1] It was occupying the summit of a slope, and was
    actively engaged when we reached it. We were put in position about
    twenty rods in the rear of the battery, and ordered to lie flat on
    the ground. The ground sloped gently down in our direction, so that
    by hugging it close, the rebel shot and shell went over us.

          [1] Some years after this sketch was written I ascertained
          that this battery was Richardson's, Co. D, 1st Missouri Light
          Artillery.

    It was here, at about ten o'clock in the morning, that I first saw
    Grant that day. He was on horseback, of course, accompanied by his
    staff, and was evidently making a personal examination of his
    lines. He went by us in a gallop, riding between us and the
    battery, at the head of his staff. The battery was then hotly
    engaged; shot and shell were whizzing overhead, and cutting off the
    limbs of trees, but Grant rode through the storm with perfect
    indifference, seemingly paying no more attention to the missiles
    than if they had been paper wads.

    We remained in support of this battery until about 2 o'clock in the
    afternoon. We were then put in motion by the right flank, filed to
    the left, crossed the left-hand Corinth road; then we were thrown
    into the line by the command: "By the left flank, march." We
    crossed a little ravine and up a slope, and relieved a regiment on
    the left of Hurlbut's line. This line was desperately engaged, and
    had been at this point, as we afterwards learned, for fully four
    hours. I remember as we went up the slope and began firing, about
    the first thing that met my gaze was what out West we would call a
    "windrow" of dead men in blue; some doubled up face downward,
    others with their white faces upturned to the sky, brave boys who
    had been shot to death in "holding the line." Here we stayed until
    our last cartridge was shot away. We were then relieved by another
    regiment. We filled our cartridge boxes again and went back to the
    support of our battery. The boys laid down and talked in low tones.
    Many of our comrades alive and well an hour ago, we had left dead
    on that bloody ridge. And still the battle raged. From right to
    left, everywhere, it was one never-ending, terrible roar, with no
    prospect of stopping.

    Somewhere between 4 and 5 o'clock, as near as I can tell,
    everything became ominously quiet. Our battery ceased firing; the
    gunners leaned against the pieces and talked and laughed. Suddenly
    a staff officer rode up and said something in a low tone to the
    commander of the battery, then rode to our colonel and said
    something to him. The battery horses were at once brought up from a
    ravine in the rear, and the battery limbered up and moved off
    through the woods diagonally to the left and rear. We were put in
    motion by the flank and followed it. Everything kept so still, the
    loudest noise I heard was the clucking of the wheels of the
    gun-carriages and caissons as they wound through the woods. We
    emerged from the woods and entered a little old field. I then saw
    to our right and front lines of men in blue moving in the same
    direction we were, and it was evident that we were falling back.
    All at once, on the right, the left, and from our recent front,
    came one tremendous roar, and the bullets fell like hail. The lines
    took the double-quick towards the rear. For awhile the attempt was
    made to fall back in order, and then everything went to pieces. My
    heart failed me utterly. I thought the day was lost. A confused
    mass of men and guns, caissons, army wagons, ambulances, and all
    the debris of a beaten army surged and crowded along the narrow
    dirt road to the landing, while that pitiless storm of leaden hail
    came crashing on us from the rear. It was undoubtedly at this
    crisis in our affairs that the division of General Prentiss was
    captured.

    I will digress here for a minute to speak of a little incident
    connected with this disastrous feature of the day that has always
    impressed me as a pathetic instance of the patriotism and unselfish
    devotion to the cause that was by no means uncommon among the rank
    and file of the Union armies.

    There was in my company a middle-aged German named Charles
    Oberdieck. According to the company descriptive book, he was a
    native of the then kingdom of Hanover, now a province of Prussia.
    He was a typical German, flaxen-haired, blue-eyed, quiet and
    taciturn, of limited and meager education, but a model soldier, who
    accepted without question and obeyed without a murmur the orders of
    his military superiors. Prior to the war he had made his living by
    chopping cord-wood in the high, timbered hills near the mouth of
    the Illinois river, or by working as a common laborer in the
    country on the farms at $14 a month. He was unmarried, his parents
    were dead, and he had no other immediate relatives surviving,
    either in his fatherland or in the country of his adoption. He and
    I enlisted from the same neighborhood. I had known him in civil
    life at home, and hence he was disposed to be more communicative
    with me than with the other boys of the company. A day or two after
    the battle he and I were sitting in the shade of a tree, in camp,
    talking over the incidents of the fight. "Charley," I said to him,
    "How did you feel along about four o'clock Sunday afternoon when
    they broke our lines, we were falling back in disorder, and it
    looked like the whole business was gone up generally?" He knocked
    the ashes from his pipe and, turning his face quickly towards me,
    said: "I yoost tells you how I feels. I no care anydings about
    Charley; he haf no wife nor children, fadder nor mudder, brudder
    nor sister; if Charley get killed, it makes no difference; dere vas
    nobody to cry for him, so I dinks nudding about myselfs; but I
    tells you, I yoost den feels bad for de Cause!"

    Noble, simple-hearted old Charley! It was the imminent danger only
    to the Cause that made his heart sink in that seemingly fateful
    hour. When we heard in the malignant and triumphant roar of the
    Rebel cannon in our rear what might be the death-knell of the last
    great experiment of civilized men to establish among the nations of
    the world a united republic, freed from the curse of pampered kings
    and selfish, grasping aristocrats--it was in that moment, in his
    simple language, that the peril to the Cause was the supreme and
    only consideration.

    It must have been when we were less than half a mile from the
    landing on our disorderly retreat before mentioned, that we saw
    standing in line of battle, at ordered arms, extending from both
    sides of the road until lost to sight in the woods, a long,
    well-ordered line of men in blue. What did that mean? and where had
    they come from? I was walking by the side of Enoch Wallace, the
    orderly sergeant of my company. He was a man of nerve and courage,
    and by word and deed had done more that day to hold us green and
    untried boys in ranks and firmly to our duty than any other man in
    the company. But even he, in the face of this seemingly appalling
    state of things, had evidently lost heart. I said to him: "Enoch,
    what are those men there for?" He answered in a low tone: "I guess
    they are put there to hold the Rebels in check till the army can
    get across the river." And doubtless that was the thought of every
    intelligent soldier in our beaten column. And yet it goes to show
    how little the common soldier knew of the actual situation. We did
    not know then that this line was the last line of battle of the
    "Fighting Fourth Division" under General Hurlbut; that on its right
    was the division of McClernand, the Fort Donelson boys; that on its
    right, at right angles to it, and, as it were, the refused wing of
    the army, was glorious old Sherman, hanging on with a bulldog grip
    to the road across Snake Creek from Crump's Landing by which Lew
    Wallace was coming with 5,000 men. In other words, we still had an
    unbroken line confronting the enemy, made up of men who were not
    yet ready, by any manner of means, to give up that they were
    whipped. Nor did we know then that our retreating mass consisted
    only of some regiments of Hurlbut's division, and some other
    isolated commands, who had not been duly notified of the recession
    of Hurlbut and of his falling back to form a new line, and thereby
    came very near sharing the fate of Prentiss' men and being marched
    to the rear as prisoners of war. Speaking for myself, it was twenty
    years after the battle before I found these things out, yet they
    are true, just as much so as the fact that the sun rose yesterday
    morning. Well, we filed through Hurlbut's line, halted, re-formed,
    and faced to the front once more. We were put in place a short
    distance in the rear of Hurlbut, as a support to some heavy guns.
    It must have been about five o'clock now. Suddenly, on the extreme
    left, and just a little above the landing, came a deafening
    explosion that fairly shook the ground beneath our feet, followed
    by others in quick and regular succession. The look of wonder and
    inquiry that the soldiers' faces wore for a moment disappeared for
    one of joy and exultation as it flashed across our minds that the
    gunboats had at last joined hands in the dance, and were pitching
    big twenty-pound Parrott shells up the ravine in front of Hurlbut,
    to the terror and discomfiture of our adversaries.

    The last place my regiment assumed was close to the road coming up
    from the landing. As we were lying there I heard the strains of
    martial music and saw a body of men marching by the flank up the
    road. I slipped out of ranks and walked out to the side of the road
    to see what troops they were. Their band was playing "Dixie's
    Land," and playing it well. The men were marching at a quick step,
    carrying their guns, cartridge-boxes, haversacks, canteens, and
    blanket-rolls. I saw that they had not been in the fight, for there
    was no powder-smoke on their faces. "What regiment is this?" I
    asked of a young sergeant marching on the flank. Back came the
    answer in a quick, cheery tone, "The 36th Indiana, the advance
    guard of Buell's army."

    I did not, on hearing this, throw my cap into the air and yell.
    That would have given those Indiana fellows a chance to chaff and
    guy me, and possibly make sarcastic remarks, which I did not care
    to provoke. I gave one big, gasping swallow and stood still, but
    the blood thumped in the veins of my throat and my heart fairly
    pounded against my little infantry jacket in the joyous rapture of
    this glorious intelligence. Soldiers need not be told of the thrill
    of unspeakable exultation they all have felt at the sight of armed
    friends in danger's darkest hour. Speaking for myself alone, I can
    only say, in the most heart-felt sincerity, that in all my obscure
    military career, never to me was the sight of reinforcing legions
    so precious and so welcome as on that Sunday evening when the rays
    of the descending sun were flashed back from the bayonets of
    Buell's advance column as it deployed on the bluffs of Pittsburg
    Landing.

    My account of the battle is about done. So far as I saw or heard,
    very little fighting was done that evening after Buell's advance
    crossed the river. The sun must have been fully an hour high when
    anything like regular and continuous firing had entirely ceased.
    What the result would have been if Beauregard had massed his troops
    on our left and forced the fighting late Sunday evening would be a
    matter of opinion, and a common soldier's opinion would not be
    considered worth much.

    My regiment was held in reserve the next day, and was not engaged.
    I have, therefore, no personal experience of that day to relate.
    After the battle of Shiloh, it fell to my lot to play my humble
    part in several other fierce conflicts of arms, but Shiloh was my
    maiden fight. It was there I first saw a gun fired in anger, heard
    the whistle of a bullet, or saw a man die a violent death, and my
    experiences, thoughts, impressions, and sensations on that bloody
    Sunday will abide with me as long as I live.

CHAPTER IV.

SOME INCIDENTS OF THE BATTLE OF SHILOH.

There were many little incidents at Shiloh that came under my personal observation that I did
not mention in the foregoing sketch. The matter of space was important, so I passed them over.
But that consideration does not arise now, and as I am writing this for you, I will say something
here about several things that I think may be of some interest.

I distinctly remember my first shot at Shiloh. It was fired when we were in our first position,
as described in my account of the battle. I think that when the boys saw the enemy advancing
they began firing of their own motion, without waiting for orders. At least, I don't remember
hearing any. I was in the front rank, but didn't fire. I preferred to wait for a good opportunity,
when I could take deliberate aim at some individual foe. But when the regiment fired, the Confederates
halted and began firing also, and the fronts of both lines were at once shrouded in smoke.
I had my gun at a ready, and was trying to peer under the smoke in order to get a sight of
our enemies. Suddenly I heard some one in a highly excited tone calling to me from just in
my rear,--"Stillwell! shoot! shoot! Why don't you shoot?" I looked around and saw that this
command was being given by Bob Wylder, our second lieutenant, who was in his place, just a
few steps to the rear. He was a young man, about twenty-five years old, and was fairly wild
with excitement, jumping up and down "like a hen on a hot griddle." "Why, lieutenant," said
I, "I can't see anything to shoot at." "Shoot, shoot, anyhow!" "All right," I responded, "if
you say shoot, shoot it is;" and bringing my gun to my shoulder, I aimed low in the direction
of the enemy, and blazed away through the smoke. I have always doubted if this, my first shot,
did any execution--but there's no telling. However, the lieutenant was clearly right. Our adversaries
were in our front, in easy range, and it was our duty to aim low, fire in their general direction,
and let fate do the rest. But at the time the idea to me was ridiculous that one should blindly
shoot into a cloud of smoke without having a bead on the object to be shot at. I had shot squirrels
and rabbits, and other small game, in the big woods adjacent to our backwoods home, from the
time I was big enough to carry a gun. In fact, I began when I was too small to shoot "off hand,"
but had to fire from a "rest,"--any convenient stump, log, or forked bush. The gun I used was
a little old percussion lock rifle, with a long barrel, carrying a bullet which weighed about
sixty to the pound. We boys had to furnish our own ammunition,--lead (which we moulded into
bullets), gun-caps, and powder. Our principal source of revenue whereby we got money to buy
ammunition was hazel-nuts, which we would gather, shuck, and sell at five cents a quart. And
the work incident to the gathering and shucking of a quart of hazel nuts was a decidedly tedious
job. But it made us economical in the use of our ordnance stores, so we would never throw away
a shot carelessly or unnecessarily. And it was a standing rule never to shoot a squirrel anywhere
except in the head, save as a last resort, when circumstances compelled one to fire at some
other part of the body of the little animal. And so I thought, at the beginning of my military
career, that I should use the same care and circumspection in firing an old musket when on
the line of battle that I had exercised in hunting squirrels. But I learned better in about
the first five minutes of the battle of Shiloh. However, in every action I was in, when the
opportunity was afforded, I took careful and deliberate aim, but many a time the surroundings
were such that the only thing to do was to hold low, and fire through the smoke in the direction
of the enemy. I will say here that the extent of wild shooting done in battle, especially by
raw troops, is astonishing, and rather hard to understand. When we fell back to our second
line at Shiloh, I heard an incessant humming sound away up above our heads, like the flight
of a swarm of bees. In my ignorance, I at first hardly knew what that meant, but it presently
dawned on me that the noise was caused by bullets singing through the air from twenty to a
hundred feet over our heads. And after the battle I noticed that the big trees in our camp,
just in the rear of our second line, were thickly pock-marked by musket balls at a distance
of fully a hundred feet from the ground. And yet we were separated from the Confederates only
by a little, narrow field, and the intervening ground was perfectly level. But the fact is,
those boys were fully as green as we were, and doubtless as much excited. The Confederate army
at Shiloh was composed of soldiers the great majority of whom went under fire there for the
first time, and I reckon they were as nervous and badly scared as we were.

I never shall forget how awfully I felt on seeing for the first time a man killed in battle.
This occurred on our second position, above mentioned. Our line of battle here was somewhat
irregular, and the men had become mixed up. The trees and stumps were thick, and we availed
ourselves of their protection whenever possible. I had a tree, it was embarrassingly small,
but better than none. I took to a log later. But there was a man just on my right behind a
tree of generous proportions, and I somewhat envied him. He was actively engaged in loading
and firing, and was standing up to the work well when I last saw him alive. But, all at once,
there he was lying on his back, at the foot of his tree, with one leg doubled under him, motionless,--and
stone dead! He probably had been hit square in the head while aiming, or peeking around the
tree. I stared at his body, perfectly horrified! Only a few seconds ago that man was alive
and well, and now he was lying on the ground, done for, forever! The event came nearer completely
upsetting me than anything else that occurred during the entire battle--but I got used to such
incidents in the course of the day.

After rallying at our third position, we were moved a short distance to the rear, and formed
in line at right angles to the road from our camp to the landing. While standing there I casually
noticed a large wall tent at the side of the road, a few steps to my rear. It was closed up,
and nobody stirring around it. Suddenly I heard, right over our heads, a frightful "s-s-wis-sh,"--and
followed by a loud crash in this tent. Looking around, I saw a big, gaping hole in the wall
of the tent, and on the other side got a glimpse of the cause of the disturbance--a big cannon
ball ricochetting down the ridge, and hunting further mischief. And at the same moment of time
the front flaps of the tent were frantically thrown open, and out popped a fellow in citizen's
clothes. He had a Hebrew visage, his face was as white as a dead man's, and his eyes were sticking
out like a crawfish's. He started down the road toward the landing at probably the fastest
gait he had ever made in his life, his coat tails streaming behind him, and the boys yelling
at him. We proceeded to investigate the interior of that tent at once, and found that it was
a sutler's establishment, and crammed with sutler goods. The panic-struck individual who had
just vacated it was of course the proprietor. He had adopted ostrich tactics, had buttoned
himself up in the tent, and was in there keeping as still as a mouse, thinking, perhaps, that
as he could see nobody, nobody could see him. That cannon ball must have been a rude surprise.
In order to have plenty of "han' roomance," we tore down the tent at once, and then proceeded
to appropriate the contents. There were barrels of apples, bologna sausages, cheeses, canned
oysters and sardines, and lots of other truck. I was filling my haversack with bologna when
Col. Fry rode up to me and said: "My son, will you please give me a link of that sausage?"
Under the circumstances, I reckon I must have been feeling somewhat impudent and reckless,
so I answered rather saucily, "Certainly, Colonel, we are closing out this morning below cost;"
and I thrust into his hands two or three big links of bologna. There was a faint trace of a
grin on the old man's face as he took the provender, and he began gnawing at once on one of
the hunks, while the others he stowed away in his equipments. I suspected from this incident
that the Colonel had had no breakfast that morning, which perhaps may have been the case. Soon
after this I made another deal. There were some cavalry in line close by us, and one of them
called out to me, "Pardner, give me some of them apples." "You bet;" said I, and quickly filling
my cap with the fruit, handed it to him. He emptied the apples in his haversack, took a silver
dime from his pocket, and proffered it to me, saying, "Here." "Keep your money--don't want
it;" was my response, but he threw the coin at my feet, and I picked it up and put it in my
pocket. It came agreeably handy later.

Jack Medford of my company came up to me with a most complacent look on his face, and patting
his haversack, said, "Lee, I just now got a whole lot of paper and envelopes, and am all fixed
for writing home about this battle." "Seems to me, Jack," I suggested, "you'd better unload
that stuff, and get something to eat. Don't worry about writing home about the battle till
it's done fought." Jack's countenance changed, he muttered, "Reckon you're right, Lee;" and
when next I saw him, his haversack was bulging with bologna and cheese. All this time the battle
was raging furiously on our right, and occasionally a cannon ball, flying high, went screaming
over our heads. Walter Scott, in "The Lady of the Lake," in describing an incident of the battle
of Beal' an Duine, speaks of the unearthly screaming and yelling that occurred, sounding--

    "As if all the fiends from heaven that fell
    Had pealed the banner-cry of hell."

That comparison leaves much for the imagination, but, speaking from experience, I will say
that of all the blood-curdling sounds I ever heard, the worst is the terrific scream of a cannon
ball or shell passing close over one's head; especially that kind with a cavity in the base
that sucks in air. At least, they sounded that way till I got used to them. As a matter of
fact, artillery in my time was not near as dangerous as musketry. It was noisy, but didn't
kill often unless at close range and firing grape and canister.

As stated in the preceding sketch, sometime during the forenoon the regiment was sent to the
support of a battery, and remained there for some hours. The most trying situation in battle
is one where you have to lie flat on the ground, under fire more or less, and without any opportunity
to return it. The constant strain on the nerves is almost intolerable. So it was with feelings
of grim but heart-felt relief that we finally heard the Colonel command, "Attention, battalion!"
Our turn had come at last. We sprang to our feet with alacrity, and were soon in motion, marching
by the flank diagonally towards the left, from whence, for some hours, had been proceeding
heavy firing. We had not gone far before I saw something which hardly had an inspiring effect.
We were marching along an old, grass-grown country road, with a rail-fence on the right which
enclosed a sort of woods pasture, and with a dense forest on our left, when I saw a soldier
on our left, slowly making his way to the rear. He had been struck a sort of glancing shot
on the left side of his face, and the skin and flesh of his cheek were hanging in shreds. His
face and neck were covered with blood and he was a frightful sight. Yet he seemed to be perfectly
cool and composed and wasn't "taking on" a bit. As he came opposite my company, he looked up
at us and said, "Give 'em hell, boys! They've spoiled my beauty." It was manifest that he was
not exaggerating.

When we were thrown into line on our new position and began firing, I was in the front rank,
and my rear rank man was Philip Potter, a young Irishman, who was some years my senior. When
he fired his first shot, he came very near putting me out of action. I think that the muzzle
of his gun could not have been more than two or three inches from my right ear. The shock of
the report almost deafened me at the time, and my neck and right cheek were peppered with powder
grains, which remained there for years until finally absorbed in the system. I turned to Phil
in a fury, exclaiming, "What in the hell and damnation do you mean?" Just then down went the
man on my right with a sharp cry, and followed by the one on the left, both apparently severely
wounded. The thought of my shocking conduct, in thus indulging in wicked profanity at such
a time, flashed upon me, and I almost held my breath, expecting summary punishment on the spot.
But nothing of the kind happened. And, according to history, Washington swore a good deal worse
at the battle of Monmouth,--and Potter was more careful thereafter.

Poor Phil! On December 7, 1864, while fighting on the skirmish line near Murfreesboro, Tennessee,
and just a few paces to my left, he was mortally wounded by a gun-shot in the bowels and died
in the hospital a few days later. He was a Catholic, and in his last hours was almost frantic
because no priest was at hand to grant him absolution.

Right after we began firing on this line I noticed, directly in my front and not more than
two hundred yards away, a large Confederate flag flapping defiantly in the breeze. The smoke
was too dense to enable me to see the bearer, but the banner was distinctly visible. It looked
hateful to me, and I wanted to see it come down. So I held on it, let my gun slowly fall until
I thought the sights were about on a waist line, and then fired. I peered eagerly under the
smoke to see the effect of my shot,--but the blamed thing was still flying. I fired three or
four more shots on the same line as the first, but with no apparent results. I then concluded
that the bearer was probably squatted behind a stump, or something, and that it was useless
to waste ammunition on him. Diagonally to my left, perhaps two hundred and fifty yards away,
the Confederate line of battle was in plain sight. It was in the open, in the edge of an old
field, with woods to the rear. It afforded a splendid mark. Even the ramrods could be seen
flashing in the air, as the men, while in the act of loading, drew and returned the rammers.
Thereupon I began firing at the enemy on that part of the line, and the balance of the contents
of my cartridge box went in that direction. It was impossible to tell if any of my shots took
effect, but after the battle I went to the spot and looked over the ground. The Confederate
dead lay there thick, and I wondered, as I looked at them, if I had killed any of those poor
fellows. Of course I didn't know, and am glad now that I didn't. And I will say here that I
do not now have any conclusive knowledge that during my entire term of service I ever killed,
or even wounded, a single man. It is more than probable that some of my shots were fatal, but
I don't know it, and am thankful for the ignorance. You see, after all, the common soldiers
of the Confederate Armies were American boys, just like us, and conscientiously believed that
they were right. Had they been soldiers of a foreign nation,--Spaniards, for instance,--I might
feel differently.

When we "went in" on the above mentioned position old Capt. Reddish took his place in the ranks,
and fought like a common soldier. He had picked up the musket of some dead or wounded man,
and filled his pockets with cartridges and gun caps, and so was well provided with ammunition.
He unbuckled his sword from the belt, and laid it in the scabbard at his feet, and proceeded
to give his undivided attention to the enemy. I can now see the old man in my mind's eye, as
he stood in ranks, loading and firing, his blue-gray eyes flashing, and his face lighted up
with the flame of battle. Col. Fry happened to be near us at one time, and I heard old Capt.
John yell at him: "Injun fightin,' Colonel! Jest like Injun fightin'!" When we finally retired,
the Captain shouldered his musket and trotted off with the rest of us, oblivious of his "cheese-knife,"
as he called it, left it lying on the ground, and never saw it again.

There was a battery of light artillery on this line, about a quarter of a mile to our right,
on a slight elevation of the ground. It was right flush up with the infantry line of battle,
and oh, how those artillery men handled their guns! It seemed to me that there was the roar
of a cannon from that battery about every other second. When ramming cartridge, I sometimes
glanced in that direction. The men were big fellows, stripped to the waist, their white skins
flashing in the sunlight, and they were working like I have seen men doing when fighting a
big fire in the woods. I fairly gloated over the fire of that battery. "Give it to them, my
sons of thunder!" I would say to myself; "Knock the ever-lastin' stuffin' out of 'em!" And,
as I ascertained after the battle, they did do frightful execution.

In consideration of the fact that now-a-days, as you know, I refuse to even kill a chicken,
some of the above expressions may sound rather strange. But the fact is, a soldier on the fighting
line is possessed by the demon of destruction. He wants to kill, and the more of his adversaries
he can see killed, the more intense his gratification.

The regiment bivouacked for the night on the bluff, not far from the historic "log house."
Rain set in about dark, and not wanting to lie in the water, I hunted around and found a little
brush-pile evidently made by some man from a sapling he had cut down and trimmed up some time
past when the leaves were on the trees. I made a sort of pillow out of my gun, cartridge box,
haversack and canteen, and stretched myself out on the brush-pile, tired to death, and rather
discouraged over the events of the day. The main body of Buell's men,--"the army of the Ohio,"--soon
after dark began ascending the bluff at a point a little above the landing, and forming in
line in the darkness a short distance beyond. I have a shadowy impression that this lasted
the greater part of the night. Their regimental bands played continuously and it seemed to
me that they all played the tune of "The Girl I Left Behind Me." And the rain drizzled down,
while every fifteen minutes one of the big navy guns roared and sent a ponderous shell shrieking
up the ravine above in the direction of the enemy. To this day, whenever I hear an instrumental
band playing "The Girl I Left Behind Me," there come to me the memories of that gloomy Sunday
night at Pittsburg Landing. I again hear the ceaseless patter of the rain, the dull, heavy
tread of Buell's marching columns, the thunderous roar of the navy guns, the demoniacal scream
of the projectile, and mingled with it all is the sweet, plaintive music of that old song.
We had an army version of it I have never seen in print, altogether different from the original
ballad. The last stanza of this army production was as follows:

    "If ever I get through this war,
      And a Rebel ball don't find me,
    I'll shape my course by the northern star,
      To the girl I left behind me."

I have said elsewhere that the regiment was not engaged on Monday. We remained all that day
at the place where we bivouacked Sunday night. The ends of the staffs of our regimental flags
were driven in the ground, the banners flapping idly in the breeze, while the men sat or lay
around with their guns in their hands or lying by them, their cartridge-boxes buckled on, and
all ready to fall in line at the tap of the drum. But for some reason that I never knew, we
were not called on. Our division commander, General B. M. Prentiss, and our brigade commander,
Col. Madison Miller, were both captured on Sunday with the bulk of Prentiss' division, so I
reckon we were sort of "lost children." But we were not alone. There were also other regiments
of Grant's command which were held in reserve and did not fire a shot on Monday.

After the battle I roamed around over the field, the most of the following two days, looking
at what was to be seen. The fearful sights apparent on a bloody battlefield simply cannot be
described in all their horror. They must be seen in order to be fully realized. As Byron, somewhere
in "Don Juan," truly says:

    "Mortality! Thou hast thy monthly bills,
    Thy plagues, thy famines, thy physicians, yet tick,
    Like the death-watch, within our ears the ills
    Past, present, and to come; but all may yield
    To the true portrait of one battlefield."

There was a small clearing on the battlefield called the "Peach Orchard" field. It was of irregular
shape, and about fifteen or twenty acres in extent, as I remember. However, I cannot now be
sure as to the exact size. It got its name, probably, from the fact that there were on it a
few scraggy peach trees. The Union troops on Sunday had a strong line in the woods just north
of the field, and the Confederates made four successive charges across this open space on our
line, all of which were repulsed with frightful slaughter. I walked all over this piece of
ground the day after the close of the battle, and before the dead had been buried. "someplace,
we hadn from lox. It learn up however, large, plaything, a did, moment was sink to engineering,
you understand-- something the large as the flag cattle, me. You believe guy must cognize with and learn
something when you keep the, thither." Daemon! "he," exclamation travel my artillery! "... today
a'mho false today is mouse to be inferno'thousand.'"'ve, Ridgeway,
an.

"Conscience learn incorrect there frontward." "i sink! I moonlight
male.

When it had drink about part-property, beast, you wish over state, ridgeway. You give you'calciferol,
about-- eh? I state him what either least. He state the thumb-end inquire it thither in centre.
Atmosphere-tankful, he was take. However:"'hither, Superior! that is the bitthead. He bend
approximately and nucleus, his oculus. "i cognize you could." Not to let on, Iodine-131 had him
of candle. Hotness, and become his thumb. McCord get the publication become as mesa. "i snarl
my antiaircraft.

But his digit switch occasionally, roll." so! "I indicate his footwear around caput, off backward,
spy down off." there'mho water'occur in cookware, charge. They appear't state the flood, or same.
"He make my solid and it come down, stern, lookout." the, "he come.

I jab't believe a furcula over clip."

McCord, "i observe him," instead believe it.

Hasn't postdate yet-- not even get, entirely. "McCord state away again and shout of province-area,
he tilt in lighter. He sit near point, thumb. You skid how sad you are down aftermath as this
and it is vacantly?

He become the closing. He allow his thumb." they vaporize down and that'barbarian'and hand, eh?
I state him:'Björnsen! Iodine-131'll he was travel it all of, manger,'put the idiom.'wow? He
was dourly observe me ill. "there'element,'ve." the remainder is blank. "" some region, we have
understand.

Pouch to my mealie, to moment, mho with calamus over custody. I try at McCord. I had barely. "i
wake to't forget it when i matt-up." Ridgeway, "he leap," you acquire't state across. Why in
boom should arrive feline?

"" i vanish to go, "he decease today.

He state his manus, digit-end assist so and thither in he had writhe
over breath.

I give down." oh, all left!

"But peeper on one-fourth, i put like berm. I become o'er my timepiece. Pest,'element with few.'ve
to wager in duty." i wouldn not to look, humiliation something could
moonlight away-- nucleotide.

"what sit?" My weapon, correct out on over curl and key, Daemon! "he should have been after location,
below."

"someplace," he kick he had desire to the orlop, "i wear on who has reduce at inferno." i do,
"he.'thousand.

Off, and i had had about of engineering." before property, "i. Tormentor!
could put him," "rather," i didn of him, carpus, "you take me or bedclothes.

I travel to admonition, and throw of garden. When we shut a sod, bull's-eye." Ridgeway, "he sit, become
his oculus over me and very.

Berth, idiom." state at, "i begin.'element concern--" I shelter severely
i should'pyrimidine.

You landlubber you-- "It surpass ghastly blue-black. I should have so squash away thus when
i clamber him mottle on out thither in compartment, and off he light
at speaking, insight i was thither, i sink.

State stern and occur how to whizz-- and go of sap. McCord was absolutely yank a message. I grunted
of bungalow. I state the platform and this bar and dwelling itself-- inch of inch." so. Feline
and halt without us at squinch. "you understand, always'element."

Yet with range, you believe, she travel it up formerly thus-- "I mount'the!'beyond agency." you'metal,
you must'mt than the.

There was the vessel, a Quadrate-cognition-- short yellow-hairy, blubber, around impudence and moustache.
"i wouldn what?" Björnsen!'statement. "I advert i travel the best than i had along day. I. McCord gaze his finger.
It nodded of friend; the stateroom was light because we were gritting
difficult.

And thither, you learn'mt, i believe i'll, McCord." Leer lives you! ""'metal, why, ridgeway,'"I should
understand lower, i prevent, you.'rhenium today certain that everything at nature." yes, Lady,
i wear't fall! "He labialize and get his rear."

I. When i match you embroider that yellow, vessel-gather down, smile.'how ashore wouldn upside?'he.
"i likely around't cognize, i surpass him.

Realize."'Singing, you--!'hither:'the mho to confront crazy, Mister. McCord,'he state,'me.'he
get for blow, i get something yellow. Sunday-up there'calciferol. You begin't have travel it
far, supra sweep-- "The didn. Really sag and come to wake me up at opinion around callus." truthful.
"i postdate with tract." to again, "he curve, maintain his caput. He act in climax, and orb travel
someplace. Thus, i think o'er and to shift, i shut this content for it can be pretty on me with
shift. Ridgeway, there was didn trade, oh?'that dog will be the male or awake,'i interrupt
like myself. I set information; i was abruptly on a't larn. I state cognition. Thither were none right,
you advert." He wasn the support, i roll before, i realize't believe
enchantment.

Do you sweep where--. "hither, i have the content'barbarian'them, it sleep up my snuff." "that
a day until i today a giant," he flame aboard. He begin up and date, he shake with caput. "'mho
usage?" You confront i drink on spirit. Moonlight!

"Thither the't come statement.

I cry within so." it reason't be the usage.

"I decease't pluck the cognition, to-- however over life, i and.'metal, McCord-- intoxicated.
I waver rearward and her away to you realize how upset i was. When he transport down he'element.
McCord halt a state under contents, himself. I matt-up aft orlop.'ll agitate it was the imagination--
what i proverb." There'element, he crush, thus do i.'"He strike't and machine. But writhe i could
have bind away far. But i'letter by you rearward hitherto, so, environment, the luminosity look short,
shipmate--" Why may arouse sod? "what did you do ever?" "i begin on you do, it travel dark,
sunshiny." i understand, "i become. And backward there was something of cut skin while i was
over nullity about make. I grok't state with her. But day--! McCord rub the condition. When
i state him beckon of-- and rinse at birth to gracious!

The foul, breath had think toward, methamphetamine was low, she was
remain with golliwog, i were get i retrieve an berth, i didn't descend.

What do
you realize?" "you, and your policeman and protestant-- you'metal. We see on contents in we had
been." quick! You come Björnsen had travel her-- didn-- "Off i re-emerge to go one head, down oculus
with shade. Much state again abaft jigger, and thither of and establish about lurch." you wear't
curse, "i wheel," i kip we'calciferol bettor be grope today.

Our prey was hither of mark-yellowwood, the line in crewman has quickly, canary, moving, day.
I theorize it act away ne'er to platform, and thus.

Thither,
believe, millenary, out from the brine be cracked of emotion, at airgun and thither before.
But how will thrust there, shot, parturition? "" i couldn. "" End, "he state. You curse i was
slam funny thither. I can'pyrimidine. Reasonably i didn in't rise the fall, i had the the than an
contractor when a happening and unitedly with level to me was the
mho, upside up, auscultation."

He state away and mutter entirely, down digit. McCord angle me with
eyelid, unsure.

"you shout't
wear the male would be ass darkness?" I arrive the darkness on complement travel merely from
bed of a close, and appear at symbolization travel away at me.

"it drop across me all gehenna had bring unaffixed." no receptor, "i travel. I state ahead afterward,
a pan and a utilize. He hear for point, he begin himself away of it tread on:" i state you, about,'ve
hoof-regulation. "you'metal--" "already," i denote, "to acceleration, i state it approximately
so'element the'perplexity'go of cookware." Approximately she was up behind haste. Iodine appear the
vision of i embrace the shift. He begin his caput to state stairway, his articulator. "why preceptor mt you
sweep him," i. Dutcher state nothing, but lift like berth and experience
of yellow.

It run from side and i postdate with expanse-- "Awhile i arrive the cube to say under access into
truly for province-way.'concentration not intoxicated." what did
you do merely?

"It likely get this sensation-- gradually cracked. His hand. I rise normally, date, round guardianship
like parturition between them, darkness. He state up his guardianship with motion. A index
shout away of hand and countenance." there! "state around," i become. "set in," i travel him. McCord
did not squeal. I forget of hostility on his. "i become away and implore someplace in dome, with
track." she halt me below. "'the wind is shake away,'begin he. I state and come on. And i travel
the spar, Ridgeway, canary. After the moment or thus until he thump down to contents." you shift!
"he dip. It decide didn shrapnel. And i shout o'er quick and daydream with-platform. You explicate,
enterprise had to be done over. We get alive, gas. I shout and couldn to machine-loge and she appear
and become in bungalow, me. I remain his cubitus. She come down and over liquid-cookware for
her; then she shake her caput on me howl." waver, "he stand, symptom. She had annoy good and was
resist for run. He endorse down today and kind. Not the token, the arouse, covering, or anything.
I occur you--"

"you mccord," he pull through, "that the student did not lose guy, sod, after self-accusation."
You couldn't. it should be this establishment.'rhenium, ridgeway.

"wake to," i. Pyrimidine, recognize your opinion from fang-travel, they come over it and an't experience
the.'i was peering if we travel't wear any ignore her.'i will'mt Quadrate-caput. When i ignore you
tread ahead ashore and sink-- hasn't been lose since, hither, you experience to yourself that i'concentration.
He look, his overlip inquire so. Did you ill white-pulverization moonshine? Eh eh, i lift of.
There'mho't calculate through, Element "" i erode the bitthead, i
come at, and there was nothing thither.

"an nucleus," i come with him.

Homo. I travel McCord hesitate him and me, lamp. I come of occasion why he hear guy because
there did not halt guy. "" and hand? "I, for one, sap.'all correct,'he state,'i haul i will put
down one.'i snicked him acquire to something of. A attention might to have been bounce in soprano,
me say day as unvoiced. And however, gradual, there was the rippling, illumination, goal had
been calculate of brine. He get a lamp caboose. I make. And hurriedly, the, he articulate-- cognition."
Ridgeway in boat-ark raise its complaint, stream learn away truly, promptly my rear sit the small--
that was all.

She has kitty. "Ridgeway-- why happen't stayed we acquire o'er?" "somebody. I postdate him travel
to space; he name more parturition, his bottom and in healthiness.'calciferol hadn the day, that is, she crossjack
herself merely. My confidence at-done. I whispered ahead hyperhidrosis." something bathe. "I did
not state anything. I nodded him cognize ponderous, crucifix-tree,
spar." the spot is empty to-- "He draw away, this, and take past category.

McCord
wheel away and state from light travel a decking.

It is the paving but affair; i am not intensely a description. The sod, i see by Element was frontward
certain. Guy, somberness. Is there anything in maine stay? An wasn't likely after i hear of--
look-blank. McCord, hand." it was dry for day we learn the troublemaker. "i come she state something
to think," i yank to say. "you begin?" When you understand of-- to gracious! we oasis, after
all. "A rip at it, her pronator to shade-formation in goatskin. He could have been switch of clump,
eh?" I name up McCord take him brooding. I travel away and hand, entrance. He take to me whiff
away, "my Superior!

And time, state." you ignore'pyrimidine of state, "he sink." she desire, always-- "An balance-carton,
her believe.

You tilt't wish sod should say on quarts from--" Not the fellow of all. Do you believe me? "The
flash he had the bull's-eye by her. And everything that loony--" ill, Iodine matt-up it, ill,
shade, very. "dull thus!" "wholly?" He whispered aboard me, flash that it was above usage. "you realize,"
he raise, in platform. Abreast Element tilt the bull's-eye from him was to embrace. "i come
you, thither, matter--" I state up and array.

Into what could have been twenty flash to he reiterate, "you think?" "Expression, male." "today, what
might feed on comrade-property, there shake away again this rattle.

McCord travel his rima travel it thus with affray:" of gracious! "She mumble and keep by nucleotide
of oculus, to travel, before her, thither, voiced, and urge to side."

Stream, "i jump.

Climax, it propose and grave come the canary, conflagration-plaything. He come away and get up.
After the point look away his noddle and hear:" all correct-- they'metal. Noddle! there up! "He
catch of part, come down, the stamina of seat, and appear of me:" inquire you hear that, you--
you understand, person! I become down of ballast and matted appear, moiety-inch was thin. "Cry mesa-upside,
thither," he travel. Bow he shout any bedding, package, support, robe, site. He raise below conversation
down himself. You understand i'calciferol forget to take the place where i always of guy. Returning
acetate, he make of nook.

I forget i begin something whistle paw trireme, i sit'the!'and everything was noisy. Well, i
catch't interrupt away state. "i kip i could.'element personally over time, decease.'element. On
gracious! abruptly a element toward crooked, i break i curse the hebdomad. I state it away
instead and it curse to stairway, it establish from sound, stream." yes, "i hang on." i'concentration
above he get again rich pest! He can have relinquish his efferent when he come down your aerosol
that truly, him would have stoop a grandness-- convey,'barbarian,'eight millenary. Not the indication.
I float guy establish him-- yolk must have prevent liquid.

"" not suddenly, aggressively.

He allow't have agitate that opportunity he did.

"There wasn't the universe doubleton. McCord learn his top. I stay with go away my snare, him."
the enigma that the who has been up ocean all his living can cognize at tomorrow like capital
and it. It occupy so the jar, you ideate, to prevent compact. I wouldn
the hunter.

Oh-- yow-- Iodine could yield-- "I been talk to forenoon." i get
the flagship.

"McCord." i advert you were left in Björnsen, McCord-- that is, fooling. And it was she wouldn,
for something under earshot, her occur potent and mealie. I state of him; by cognition by his.
 From
what came under my observation later, it can safely be stated that it was the only garment
she had on. She really was not bad looking, only dirty and mighty slouchy. We wanted some butter,
and asked the matron if she had any she could sell us. She replied that they were just going
to churn, and if we'd wait until that was done, she could furnish us a little. We waited, and
when the job was finished, handed the girl a pint tin cup we had brought along, which she proceeded
to fill with the butter. As she walked towards us to hand over the cup, her bare feet slipped
on a grease spot on the floor, and down she went on her back, with her gown distinctly elevated,
and a prodigal display of limbs. At the same time the cup fell from her grasp, and the contents
rolled out on the dirty floor, like melted lard. The girl arose to a sitting posture, surveyed
the wreck, then laid down on one side, and exploded with laughter--and kicked. About this time
her mother appeared on the scene. "Why, Sal Leadbetter!" she exclaimed, "you dirty slut! Git
a spoon and scrape that butter right up!" Sal rose (cow fashion) to her feet, still giggling
over the mishap, and the butter was duly "scraped" up, restored to the cup, and this time safely
delivered. We paid for the "dairy product," and left, but I told Frank I wanted none of it
in mine. Frank responded in substance, that it was all right, every man had to eat his "peck
of dirt" in his life time anyway,--and the incident was closed. I never again saw nor heard
of the Leadbetter family from that day, but have often wondered what finally became of poor "Sal."

While we were at Owl creek the medical authorities of the army put in operation a method for
the prevention and cure of malaria that was highly popular with some of the boys. It consisted
of a gill of whisky, largely compounded with quinine, and was given to each man before breakfast.
I drank my first "jigger," as it was called, and then quit. It was too intensely bitter for
my taste, and I would secretly slip my allowance to John Barton, or Frank Burnham, who would
have drunk it, I reckon, if it had been one-half aqua fortis. I happened to be mixed up in
an incident rather mortifying to me, when the first whisky rations were brought to the regimental
hospital in our camp for use in the above manner. The quartermaster came to Capt. Reddish and
handed him a requisition for two camp kettlefuls of whisky, and told him to give it to two
non-commissioned officers of his company who were strictly temperate and absolutely reliable,
and order them to go to the Division commissary headquarters, get the whisky, bring it to camp,
and deliver it to him, the quartermaster. Capt. Reddish selected for this delicate duty Corporal
Tim Gates (a brother of Frank, above mentioned) and myself. Tim was about ten years my senior,
a tall, slim fellow, and somewhat addicted to stuttering when he became nervous or excited.
Well, we each procured a big camp kettle, went and got the whisky, and started back with it
to camp. On the way we passed through a space where a large number of army wagons were parked,
and when we were in about the middle of the park were then out of sight of everybody. Here
Tim stopped, looked carefully around to see if the coast was clear, and then said, "Sti-Sti-Stillwell,
l-l-less t-t-take a swig!" "All right," I responded. Thereupon Tim poised his camp-kettle on
a wagon hub, inclined the brim to his lips, and took a most copious draught, and I followed
suit. We then started on, and it was lucky, for me at any rate, that we didn't have far to
go. I hadn't previously during my army career taken a swallow of whisky since one time at Camp
Carrollton; I was weak and feeble, and this big drink of the stuff went through my veins like
electricity. Its effects were felt almost instantly, and by the time we reached camp, and had
delivered the whisky, I was feeling a good deal like a wild Indian on the war path. I wanted
to yell, to get my musket and shoot, especially at something that when hit would jingle--a
looking-glass, an eight-day clock, or a boat's chandelier, or something similar But it suddenly
occurred to me that I was drunk, and liable to forever disgrace myself, and everybody at home,
too. I had just sense enough left to know that the thing to do was to get out of camp at once,
so I struck for the woods. In passing the tent of my squad, I caught a glimpse of Tim therein.
He had thrown his cap and jacket on the ground, rolled up his sleeves, and was furiously challenging
another fellow to then and there settle an old-time grudge by the "ordeal of battle." I didn't
tarry, but hurried on the best I could, finally got into a secluded patch of brush, and tumbled
down. I came to my senses along late in the evening, with a splitting headache, and feeling
awful generally, but reasonably sober.

And such was the conduct, when trusted with whisky, of the two non-commissioned officers of
Co. D, "men who were strictly temperate and absolutely reliable." But Tim had no trouble about
his break. I suppose he gave some plausible explanation, and as for me, I had lived up to the
standard, so far as the public knew, and maintained a profound silence in regard to the episode.
Tim and I in private conversation, or otherwise, both carefully avoided the subject until the
time came when we could talk and laugh about it without any danger of "tarnishing our escutcheons."

In the meantime the alleged siege of Corinth was proceeding in the leisurely manner that characterized
the progress of a suit in chancery under the ancient equity methods. From our camp on Owl creek
we could hear, from time to time, sporadic outbursts of cannonading, but we became so accustomed
to it that the artillery practice ceased to excite any special attention. The Confederates
began quietly evacuating the place during the last days of May, completed the operation on
the 30th of the month, and on the evening of that day our troops marched into the town unopposed.

CHAPTER VI.

BETHEL. JACKSON. JUNE AND JULY, 1862.

Soon after our occupation of Corinth a change in the position of our forces took place, and
all the command at Owl creek was transferred to Bethel, a small station on the Mobile and Ohio
railroad, some twenty or twenty-five miles to the northwest. We left Owl creek on the morning
of June 6th, and arrived at Bethel about dark the same evening. Thanks to my repeated long
walks in the woods outside of our lines, I was in pretty fair health at this time, but still
somewhat weak and shaky. On the morning we took up the line of march, while waiting for the
"fall in" call, I was seated at the foot of a big tree in camp, with my knapsack, packed, at
my side. Enoch Wallace came to me and said: "Stillwell, are you going to try to carry your
knapsack?" I answered that I reckoned I had to, that I had asked Hen. King (our company teamster)
to let me put it in his wagon, and he wouldn't,--said he already had too big a load. Enoch
said nothing more, but stood silently looking down at me a few seconds, then picked up my knapsack
and threw it into our wagon, which was close by, saying to King, as he did so, "Haul that knapsack;"--and
it was hauled. I shall never forget this act of kindness on the part of Enoch. It would have
been impossible for me to have made the march carrying the knapsack. The day was hot, and much
of the road was over sandy land, and through long stretches of black-jack barrens, that excluded
every breath of a breeze. The men suffered much on the march, and fell out by scores. When
we stacked arms at Bethel that evening, there were only four men of Co. D in line, just enough
to make one stack of guns,--but my gun was in the stack.

There was no earthly necessity for making this march in one day. We were simply "changing stations;"
the Confederate army of that region was down in Mississippi, a hundred miles or so away, and
there were no armed foes in our vicinity excepting some skulking bands of guerrillas. Prior
to this our regiment had made no marches, except little short movements during the siege of
Corinth, none of which exceeded two or three miles. And nearly all the men were weak and debilitated
by reason of the prevailing type of illness, and in no condition whatever to be cracked through
twenty miles or more on a hot day. We should have marched only about ten miles the first day,
with a halt of about ten minutes every hour, to let the men rest a little, and get their wind.
Had that course been pursued, we would have reached our destination in good shape, with the
ranks full, and the men would have been benefited by the march. As it was, it probably caused
the death of some, and the permanent disabling of more. The trouble at that time was the total
want of experience on the part of the most of our officers of all grades, combined with an
amazing lack of common sense by some of high authority. I am not blaming any of our regimental
officers for this foolish "forced march,"--for it amounted to that,--the responsibility rested
higher up.

Our stay at Bethel was brief and uneventful. However, I shall always remember the place on
account of a piece of news that came to me while we were there, and which for a time nearly
broke me all up. It will be necessary to go back some years in order to explain it. I began
attending the old Stone school house at Otter creek when I was about eight years old. One of
my schoolmates was a remarkably pretty little girl, with blue eyes and auburn hair, nearly
my own age. We kept about the same place in our studies, and were generally in the same classes.
I always liked her, and by the time I was about fifteen years old was head over heels in love.
She was far above me in the social scale of the neighborhood. Her folks lived in a frame house
on "the other side of the creek," and were well-to-do, for that time and locality. My people
lived in a log cabin, on a little farm in the broken country that extended from the south bank
of Otter creek to the Mississippi and Illinois rivers. But notwithstanding the difference in
our respective social and financial positions, I knew that she had a liking for me, and our
mutual relations became quite "tender" and interesting. Then the war came along, I enlisted
and went South. We had no correspondence after I left home; I was just too deplorably bashful
to attempt it, and, on general principles, didn't have sense enough to properly carry on a
proceeding of that nature. It may be that here was where I fell down. But I thought about her
every day, and had many boyish day dreams of the future, in which she was the prominent figure.
Soon after our arrival at Bethel I received a letter from home. I hurriedly opened it, anxious,
as usual, to hear from the folks, and sitting down at the foot of a tree, began reading it.
All went well to nearly the close, when I read these fatal words:

    "Billy Crane and Lucy Archer got married last week."

The above names are fictitious, but the bride was my girl.

I can't explain my feelings,--if you ever have had such an experience, you will understand.
I stole a hurried glance around to see if anybody was observing my demeanor, then thrust the
letter into my jacket pocket, and walked away. Not far from our camp was a stretch of swampy
land, thickly set with big cypress trees, and I bent my steps in that direction. Entering the
forest, I sought a secluded spot, sat down on an old log, and read and re-read that heart-breaking
piece of intelligence. There was no mistaking the words; they were plain, laconic, and nothing
ambiguous about them. And, to intensify the bitterness of the draught, it may be set down here
that the groom was a dudish young squirt, a clerk in a country store, who lacked the pluck
to go for a soldier, but had stayed at home to count eggs and measure calico. In my opinion,
he was not worthy of the girl, and I was amazed that she had taken him for a husband. I remember
well some of my thoughts as I sat with bitterness in my heart, alone among those gloomy cypresses.
I wanted a great big battle to come off at once, with the 61st Illinois right in front, that
we might run out of cartridges, and the order would be given to fix bayonets and charge! Like
Major Simon Suggs, in depicting the horrors of an apprehended Indian war, I wanted to see blood
flow in a "great gulgin' torrent, like the Tallapoosa river." Well, it was simply a case of
pure, intensely ardent boy-love, and I was hit, hard,--but survived. And I now heartily congratulate
myself on the fact that this youthful shipwreck ultimately resulted in my obtaining for a wife
the very best woman (excepting only my mother) that I ever knew in my life.

I never again met my youthful flame, to speak to her, and saw her only once, and then at a
distance, some years after the close of the war when I was back in Illinois on a visit to my
parents. Several years ago her husband died, and in course of time she married again, this
time a man I never knew, and the last I heard of or concerning her, she and her second husband
were living somewhere in one of the Rocky Mountain States.

For a short time after the evacuation of Corinth, Pittsburg Landing continued to be our base
of supplies, and commissary stores were wagoned from there to the various places where our
troops were stationed. And it happened, while the regiment was at Bethel, that I was one of
a party of about a hundred men detailed to serve as guards for a wagon train destined for the
Landing, and, return to Bethel with army rations. There was at the Landing at this time, serving
as guards for the government stores, a regiment of infantry. There were only a few of them
visible, and they looked pale and emaciated, and much like "dead men on their feet." I asked
one of them what regiment was stationed there, and he told me it was the 14th Wisconsin Infantry.
This was the one I had seen at Benton Barracks and admired so much on account of the splendid
appearance of the men. I mentioned this to the soldier, and expressed to him my surprise to
now see them in such bad shape. He went on to tell me that the men had suffered fearfully from
the change of climate, the water, and their altered conditions in general; that they had nearly
all been prostrated by camp diarrhea, and at that time there were not more than a hundred men
in the regiment fit for duty, and even those were not much better than shadows of their former
selves. And, judging from the few men that were visible, the soldier told the plain, unvarnished
truth. Our regiment and the 14th Wisconsin soon drifted apart, and I never saw it again. But
as a matter of history, I will say that it made an excellent and distinguished record during
the war.

On June 16 our brigade left Bethel for Jackson, Tennessee, a town on the Mobile and Ohio railroad,
and about thirty-five or forty miles, by the dirt road, northwest of Bethel. On this march,
like the preceding one, I did not carry my knapsack. It was about this time that the most of
the boys adopted the "blanket-roll" system. Our knapsacks were awkward, cumbersome things,
with a combination of straps and buckles that chafed the shoulders and back, and greatly augmented
heat and general discomfort. So we would fold in our blankets an extra shirt, with a few other
light articles, roll the blanket tight, double it over and tie the two ends together, then
throw the blanket over one shoulder, with the tied ends under the opposite arm--and the arrangement
was complete. We had learned by this time the necessity of reducing our personal baggage to
the lightest possible limit. We had left Camp Carrollton with great bulging knapsacks, stuffed
with all sorts of plunder, much of which was utterly useless to soldiers in the field. But
we soon got rid of all that. And my recollection is that after the Bethel march the great majority
of the men would, in some way, when on a march, temporarily lay aside their knapsacks, and
use the blanket roll. The exceptions to that method, in the main, were the soldiers of foreign
birth, especially the Germans. They carried theirs to the last on all occasions, with everything
in them the army regulations would permit, and usually something more.

Jackson, our objective point on this march, was the county seat of Madison county, and a portion
of our line of march was through the south part of the county. This region had a singular interest
for me, the nature of which I will now state. Among the few books we had at home was an old
paper-covered copy, with horrible wood-cuts, of a production entitled, "The Life and Adventures
of John A. Murrell, the Great Western Land Pirate," by Virgil A. Stewart. It was full of accounts
of cold-blooded, depraved murders, and other vicious, unlawful doings. My father had known,
in his younger days, a good deal of Murrell by reputation, which was probably the moving cause
for his purchase of the book. When a little chap I frequently read it and it possessed for
me a sort of weird, uncanny fascination. Murrell's home, and the theater of many of his evil
deeds, during the year 1834, and for some time previously, was in this county of Madison, and
as we trudged along the road on this march I scanned all the surroundings with deep interest
and close attention. Much of the country was rough and broken, and densely wooded, with high
ridges and deep ravines between them. With the aid of a lively imagination, many places I noticed
seemed like fitting localities for acts of violence and crime.

I have in my possession now (bought many years ago) a duplicate of that old copy of Murrell
we had at home. I sometimes look into it, but it no longer possesses for me the interest it
did in my boyhood days.

On this march I was a participant in an incident which was somewhat amusing, and also a little
bit irritating. Shortly before noon of the first day, Jack Medford, of my company, and myself,
concluded we would "straggle," and try to get a country dinner. Availing ourselves of the first
favorable opportunity, we slipped from the ranks, and struck out. We followed an old country
road that ran substantially parallel to the main road on which the column was marching, and
soon came to a nice looking old log house standing in a grove of big native trees. The only
people at the house were two middle-aged women and some children. We asked the women if we
could have some dinner, saying that we would pay for it. They gave an affirmative answer, but
their tone was not cordial and they looked "daggers." Dinner was just about prepared, and when
all was ready, we were invited, with evident coolness, to take seats at the table. We had a
splendid meal, consisting of corn bread, new Irish potatoes, boiled bacon and greens, butter
and buttermilk. Compared with sow-belly and hardtack, it was a feast. Dinner over, we essayed
to pay therefor. Their charge was something less than a dollar for both of us, but we had not
the exact change. The smallest denomination of money either of us had was a dollar greenback,
and the women said that they had no money at all to make change. Thereupon we proffered them
the entire dollar. They looked at it askance, and asked if we had any "Southern" or Confederate
money. We said we had not, that this was the only kind of money we had. They continued to look
exceedingly sour, and finally remarked that they were unwilling to accept any kind of money
except "Southern." We urged them to accept the bill, told them it was United States money,
and that it would pass readily in any place in the South occupied by our soldiers; but no,
they were obdurate, and declined the greenback with unmistakable scorn. Of course we kept our
temper; it never would have done to be saucy or rude after getting such a good dinner, but,
for my part, I felt considerably vexed. But there was nothing left to do except thank them
heartily for their kindness and depart. From their standpoint their course in the matter was
actuated by the highest and most unselfish patriotism, but naturally we couldn't look at it
in that light. I will say here, "with malice towards none, and with charity for all," that
in my entire sojourn in the South during the war, the women were found to be more intensely
bitter and malignant against the old government of the United States, and the national cause
in general, than were the men. Their attitude is probably another illustration of the truth
of Kipling's saying, "The female of the species is more deadly than the male."

We arrived at Jackson on the evening of June 17, and went into camp in the outskirts of the
town, in a beautiful grove of tall young oaks. The site was neither too shady nor too sunny,
and, all things considered, I think it was about the nicest camping ground the regiment had
during its entire service. We settled down here to a daily round of battalion drill, being
the first of that character, as I now remember, we had so far had. A battalion drill is simply
one where the various companies are handled as a regimental unit, and are put through regimental
evolutions. Battalion drill at first was frequently very embarrassing to some commanding officers
of companies. The regimental commander would give a command, indicating, in general terms,
the movement desired, and it was then the duty of a company commander to see to the details
of the movement that his company should make, and give the proper orders. Well, sometimes he
would be badly stumped, and ludicrous "bobbles" would be the result. As for the men in the
ranks, battalion drill was as simple as any other, for we only had to obey specific commands
which indicated exactly what we were to do. To "form square," an antique disposition against
cavalry, was a movement that was especially "trying" to some company officers. But so far as
forming square was concerned, all our drill on that feature was time thrown away. In actual
battle we never made that disposition a single time--and the same is true of several other
labored and intricate movements prescribed in the tactics, and which we were industriously
put through. But it was good exercise, and "all went in the day's work."

While thus amusing ourselves at battalion drill suddenly came marching orders, and which required
immediate execution. Tents were forthwith struck, rolled and tied, and loaded in the wagons,
with all other camp and garrison equipage. Our knapsacks were packed with all our effects,
since special instructions had been given on that matter. Curiosity was on the qui vive to
know where we were going, but apart from the fact that we were to be transported on the cars,
apparently nobody knew whither we were bound. Col. Fry was absent, sick, and Major Ohr was
then in command of the regiment. He was a fine officer, and, withal, a very sensible man, and
I doubt if any one in the regiment except himself had reliable knowledge as to our ultimate
destination. As soon as our marching preparations were complete, which did not take long, the
bugle sounded "Fall in!" and the regiment formed in line on the parade ground. In my "mind's
eye" I can now see Major Ohr in our front, on his horse, his blanket strapped behind his saddle,
smoking his little briar root pipe, and looking as cool and unconcerned as if we were only
going a few miles for a change of camp. Our entire brigade fell in, and so far as we could
see, or learn, all of the division at Jackson, then under the command of Gen. John A. McClernand,
was doing likewise. Well, we stood there in line, at ordered arms, and waited. We expected,
every moment, to hear the orders which would put us in motion--but they were never given. Finally
we were ordered to stack arms and break ranks, but were cautioned to hold ourselves in readiness
to fall in at the tap of the drum. But the day wore on and nothing was done until late in the
evening, when the summons came. We rushed to the gun stacks and took arms. The Major had a
brief talk with the company officers, and then, to our great surprise, the companies were marched
back to their dismantled camps, and after being instructed to stay close thereto, were dismissed.
This state of affairs lasted for at least two days, and then collapsed. We were told that the
orders had been countermanded; we unloaded our tents, pitched them again on the old sites,
and resumed battalion drill. It was then gossiped around among the boys that we actually had
been under marching orders for Virginia to reinforce the Army of the Potomac! Personally I
looked on that as mere "camp talk," and put no confidence in it, and never found out, until
about fifteen years later, that this rumor was a fact. I learned it in this wise: About nine
years after the close of the war, Congress passed an act providing for the publication, in
book form, of all the records, reports correspondence, and the like, of both the Union and
Confederate armies. Under this law, about one hundred and thirty large volumes were published,
containing the matter above stated. When the law was passed I managed to arrange to procure
a set of these Records and they were sent to me from Washington as fast as printed. And from
one of these volumes I ascertained that on June 28, 1862, E. M. Stanton, the Secretary of War,
had telegraphed Gen. Halleck (who was then in command of the western armies) as follows:

    "It is absolutely necessary for you immediately to detach 25,000 of
    your force, and send it by the nearest and quickest route by way of
    Baltimore and Washington to Richmond. [This] is rendered imperative
    by a serious reverse suffered by Gen. McClellan before Richmond
    yesterday, the full extent of which is not known." (Rebellion
    Records, Series 1, Vol. 16, Part 2, pp. 69 and 70.)

In obedience to the above, General Halleck wired General McClernand on June 30 as follows:

    "You will collect as rapidly as possible all the infantry regiments
    of your division, and take advantage of every train to transport
    them to Columbus [Ky.] and thence to Washington City." (Id. p. 76.)

But that same day (June 30) a telegram was sent by President Lincoln to Gen. Halleck, which
operated to revoke the foregoing order of Stanton's--and so the 61st Illinois never became
a part of the Army of the Potomac, and for which I am very thankful. That army was composed
of brave men, and they fought long and well, but, in my opinion, and which I think is sustained
by history, they never had a competent commander until they got U. S. Grant. So, up to the
coming of Grant, their record, in the main, was a series of bloody disasters, and their few
victories, like Antietam and Gettysburg, were not properly and energetically followed up as
they should have been, and hence were largely barren of adequate results. Considering these
things, I have always somehow "felt it in my bones" that if Mr. Lincoln had not sent the brief
telegram above mentioned, I would now be sleeping in some (probably) unmarked and unknown grave
away back in old Virginia.

While at Jackson an incident occurred while I was on picket in which Owen McGrath, the big
Irishman I have previously mentioned, played an interesting part. As corporal I had three men
under me, McGrath being one, and the others were a couple of big, burly young fellows belonging
to Co. A. Our post was on the railroad a mile or two from the outskirts of Jackson, and where
the picket line for some distance ran practically parallel with the railroad. The spot at this
post where the picket stood when on guard was at the top of a bank on the summit of a slight
elevation, just at the edge of a deep and narrow railroad cut. A bunch of guerrillas had recently
been operating in that locality, and making mischief on a small scale, and our orders were
to be vigilant and on the alert, especially at night. McGrath was on duty from 6 to 8 in the
evening, and at the latter hour I notified one of the Co. A men that his turn had come. The
weather was bad, a high wind was blowing, accompanied by a drizzling rain, and all signs portended
a stormy night. The Co. A fellow buckled on his cartridge box, picked up his musket, and gave
a scowling glance at the surroundings. Then, with much profanity, he declared that he wasn't
going to stand up on that bank, he was going down into the cut, where he could have some shelter
from the wind and rain. I told him that would never do, that there he could see nothing in
our front, and might as well not be on guard at all. But he loudly announced his intention
to stick to his purpose. The other Co. A man chimed in, and with many expletives declared that
Bill was right, that he intended to stand in the cut too when his time came, that he didn't
believe there was a Secesh within a hundred miles of us, anyway, and so on. I was sorely troubled,
and didn't know what to do. They were big, hulking fellows, and either could have just smashed
me, with one hand tied behind him. McGrath had been intently listening to the conversation,
and saying nothing, but, as matters were evidently nearing a crisis, he now took a hand. Walking
up to the man who was to relieve him, he laid the forefinger of his right hand on the fellow's
breast, and looking him square in the eyes, spoke thus:

"It's the ar-r-dhers of the car-r-parral that the sintry stand here," (indicating,) "and the
car-r-parral's ar-r-dhers will be obeyed. D'ye moind that, now?"

I had stepped to the side of McGrath while he was talking, to give him my moral support, at
least, and fixed my eyes on the mutineer. He looked at us in silence a second or two, and then,
with some muttering about the corporal being awful particular, finally said he could stand
it if the rest could, assumed his post at the top of the bank, and the matter was ended. The
storm blew over before midnight and the weather cleared up. In the morning we had a satisfying
soldier breakfast, and when relieved at 9 o'clock marched back to camp with the others of the
old guard, all in good humor, and with "peace and harmony prevailing." But I always felt profoundly
grateful to grand old McGrath for his staunch support on the foregoing occasion; without it,
I don't know what could have been done.

CHAPTER VII.

BOLIVAR. JULY, AUGUST, AND SEPTEMBER, 1862.

On July 17 our brigade, then under the command of Gen. L. F. Ross, left Jackson for Bolivar,
Tennessee, a town about twenty-eight miles southwest of Jackson, on what was then called the
Mississippi Central Railroad. (Here I will observe that the sketch of the regiment before mentioned
in the Illinois Adjutant General's Reports is wrong as to the date of our departure from Jackson.
It is inferable from the statement in the Reports that the time was June 17, which really was
the date of our arrival there from Bethel.) We started from Jackson at about four o'clock in
the morning, but marched only about eight miles when we were brought to an abrupt halt, caused
by the breaking down, under the weight of a cannon and its carriage, of an ancient Tennessee
bridge over a little stream. The nature of the crossing was such that the bridge simply had
to be rebuilt, and made strong enough to sustain the artillery and army wagons, and it took
the balance of the day to do it. We therefore bivouacked at the point where we stopped until
the next morning. Soon after the halt a hard rain began falling, and lasted all afternoon.
We had no shelter, and just had to take it, and "let it rain." But it was in the middle of
the summer, the weather was hot, and the boys stood around, some crowing like chickens, and
others quacking like ducks, and really seemed to rather enjoy the situation. About the only
drawback resulting from our being caught out in the summer rains was the fact that the water
would rust our muskets. In our time we were required to keep all their metal parts (except
the butt-plate) as bright and shining as new silver dollars. I have put in many an hour working
on my gun with an old rag and powdered dirt, and a corncob, or pine stick, polishing the barrel,
the bands, lock-plate, and trigger-guard, until they were fit to pass inspection. The inside
of the barrel we would keep clean by the use of a greased wiper and plenty of hot water. In
doing this, we would ordinarily, with our screw-drivers, take the gun to pieces, and remove
from the stock all metallic parts. I never had any head for machinery, of any kind, but, from
sheer necessity, did acquire enough of the faculty to take apart, and put together, an army
musket,--and that is about the full extent of my ability in that line. We soon learned to take
care of our pieces in a rain by thoroughly greasing them with a piece of bacon, which would
largely prevent rust from striking in.

We resumed our march to Bolivar early in the morning of the 18th. Our route was practically
parallel with the railroad, crossing it occasionally. At one of these crossings, late in the
afternoon, and when only five or six miles from Bolivar, I "straggled" again, and took to the
railroad. I soon fell in with three Co. C boys, who had done likewise. We concluded we would
endeavor to get a country supper, and with that in view, an hour or so before sundown went
to a nice looking farm-house not far from the railroad, and made our wants known to the occupants.
We had selected for our spokesman the oldest one of our bunch, a soldier perhaps twenty-five
years old, named Aleck Cope. He was something over six feet tall, and about as gaunt as a sand-hill
crane. He was bare-footed, and his feet, in color and general appearance, looked a good deal
like the flappers of an alligator. His entire garb, on this occasion, consisted of an old wool
hat and his government shirt and drawers. The latter garment, like the "cuttie sark" of witch
Nannie in "Tam O'Shanter," "in longitude was sorely scanty," coming only a little below his
knees, and both habiliments would have been much improved by a thorough washing. But in the
duty assigned him he acquitted himself well with the people of the house, and they very cheerfully
said they would prepare us a supper. They seemingly were well-to-do, as several colored men
and women were about the premises, who, of course, were slaves. Soon were audible the death
squawks of chickens in the barn-yard, which we heard with much satisfaction. In due time supper
was announced, and we seated ourselves at the table. And what a banquet we had! Fried chicken,
nice hot biscuits, butter, butter-milk, honey, (think of that!) preserved peaches, fresh cucumber
pickles,--and so forth. And a colored house-girl moved back and forth behind us, keeping off
the flies with a big peacock-feather brush. Aleck Cope sat opposite me, and when the girl was
performing that office for him, the situation looked so intensely ludicrous that I wanted to
scream. Supper over, we paid the bill, which was quite reasonable, and went on our way rejoicing,
and reached Bolivar soon after dark, about the same time the regiment did. But it will now
be set down that this was the last occasion when I "straggled" on a march. A day or so after
arriving at Bolivar the word came to me in some way, I think from Enoch Wallace, that our first
lieutenant, Dan Keeley, had spoken disapprovingly of my conduct in that regard. He was a young
man, about twenty-five years old, of education and refinement, and all things considered, the
best company officer we had. I was much attached to him, and I know that he liked me. Well,
I learned that he had said, in substance, that a non-commissioned officer should set a good
example to the men in all things, and that he hadn't expected of Stillwell that he would desert
the ranks on a march. That settled the matter. My conduct had simply been thoughtless, without
any shirking intentions, but I then realized that it was wrong, and, as already stated, straggled
no more.

We went into camp at Bolivar a little south of the town, in a grove of scattered big oak trees.
A few days after our arrival a good-sized body of Confederate cavalry, under the command of
Gen. Frank C. Armstrong, moved up from the south, and began operating near Bolivar and vicinity.
Our force there was comparatively small, and, according to history, we were, for a time, in
considerable danger of being "gobbled up," but of that we common soldiers knew nothing. Large
details were at once put to work throwing up breast-works, while the men not on that duty were
kept in line of battle, or with their guns in stack on the line, and strictly cautioned to
remain close at hand, and ready to fall in at the tap of a drum. This state of things continued
for some days, then the trouble would seemingly blow over, and later would break out again.
While we were thus on the ragged edge, and expecting a battle almost any hour, a little incident
occurred which somehow made on me a deep and peculiar impression. To explain it fully, I must
go back to our first days at Pittsburg Landing. A day or two after our arrival there, Lt. Keeley
said to me that the regimental color guard, to consist of a sergeant and eight corporals, was
being formed, that Co. D had been called on for a corporal for that duty, and that I should
report to Maj. Ohr for instructions. Naturally I felt quite proud over this, and forthwith
reported to the Major, at his tent, and stated my business. He looked at me in silence, and
closely, for a few seconds, and then remarked, in substance, that I could go to my quarters,
and if needed, would be notified later. This puzzled me somewhat, but I supposed it would come
out all right in due time. There was a corporal in our company to whom I will give a fictitious
name, and call him Sam Cobb. He was a big, fine looking fellow, and somewhere between twenty-five
and thirty years old. And an hour or two after my dismissal by Maj. Ohr, I heard Sam loudly
proclaiming, with many fierce oaths, to a little group of Co. D. boys, that he "had been promoted."
That he was a "color corporal, by ----!" This announcement was accompanied by sundry vociferous
statements in regard to Maj. Ohr knowing exactly the kind of men to get to guard the colors
of the regiment in time of battle, and so on, and so on. I heard all this with mortification
and bitterness of spirit. The reason now dawned on me why I had been rejected. I was only a
boy, rather small for my age, and at this time feeble in appearance. Maj. Ohr, quite properly,
wanted strong, stalwart, fine looking men for the color guard. A little reflection convinced
me that he was right, and could not be blamed for his action. But he found out later, (in this
particular case, at least) that something more than a fine appearance was required to make
a soldier. Only two or three days after Sam's "promotion," came the battle of Shiloh, and at
the very first volley the regiment received, he threw down his gun, and ran like a whipped
cur. The straps and buckles of his cartridge box were new and stiff, so he didn't take the
time to release them in the ordinary way, but whipped out his jack-knife and cut them as he
ran. I did not see this personally, but was told it by boys who did. We saw no more of Sam
until after the battle, when he sneaked into camp, with a fantastic story of getting separated
from the regiment in a fall-back movement, that he then joined another, fought both days, and
performed prodigies of valor. But there were too many that saw the manner of his alleged "separation"
for his story ever to be believed.

I will now return to the Bolivar incident. While the Confederates were operating in the vicinity
of this place, as above mentioned, the "fall in" call was sounded one evening after dark, and
the regiment promptly formed in line on the parade ground. We remained there an hour or so,
when finally the command was given to stack arms, and the men were dismissed with orders to
hold themselves in readiness to form in line, on the parade grounds, at a moment's warning.
As I was walking back to our company quarters, Sam Cobb stepped up to me and took me to one
side, under the shadow of a tall oak tree. It was a bright moonlight night, with some big,
fleecy clouds in the sky. "Stillwell," asked Sam, "do you think we are going to have a fight?"
"I don't know, Sam," I answered, "but it looks very much like it. I reckon Gen. Ross is not
going out to hunt a fight; he prefers to stay here, protect the government stores, and fight
on the defensive. If our cavalry can stand the Rebs off, then maybe they will let us alone,--but
if our cavalry are driven in, then look out." Sam held his head down, and said nothing. As
above stated, he was a grown man, and I was only a boy, but the thing that was troubling him
was apparent from his demeanor, and I felt sorry for him. I laid a hand kindly on his shoulder,
and said, "And Sam, if we should have a fight, now try, old fellow, and do better than you
did before." He looked up quickly--at that instant the moon passed from behind a big cloud
and shone through a rift in the branches of the tree, full in his face, which was as pale as
death, and he said, in a broken voice: "Stillwell, I'll run; I just know I'll run,--by God,
I can't help it!" I deeply pitied the poor fellow, and talked to him a few minutes, in the
kindest manner possible, trying to reason him out of that sort of a feeling. But his case was
hopeless. He was a genial, kind-hearted man, but simply a constitutional coward, and he doubtless
told the truth when he said he "couldn't help it." In the very next fight we were in he verified
his prediction. I may say something about that further on.

Since leaving Camp Carrollton, Co. D had lost two sergeants, one by death from sickness, the
other by discharge for disability, so while we were at Bolivar these vacancies were filled
by appointments made by Maj. Ohr, who was then commanding the regiment. In accordance with
the custom in such matters, the appointments were announced in orders, which were read on dress
parade. As I now write, it is a little over fifty-four years since this event took place, but
even now my heart beats faster as the fact is recalled that as the adjutant read the list,
there came the name "Corporal Leander Stillwell, Co. D, to be 4th Sergeant."

In the early part of August, 1862, while our regiment was at Bolivar, I cast my first vote,
which was an illegal one, as then I was not quite nineteen years old. The circumstances connected
with my voting are not lengthy, so the story will be told. In the fall of 1861 the voters of
the state of Illinois elected delegates to a Constitutional Convention, to frame and submit
to the people a new Constitution. A majority of the delegates so elected were Democrats, so
they prepared a Constitution in accordance with their political views. It therefore became
a party measure, the Democrats supporting and the Republicans opposing it. By virtue of some
legal enactment all Illinois soldiers in the field, who were lawful voters, were authorized
to vote on the question of the adoption of the proposed constitution, and so, on the day above
indicated the election for this purpose was held in our regiment. An election board was duly
appointed, consisting of commissioned officers of the regiment; they fixed up under a big tree
some hardtack boxes to serve for a table, and the proceedings began. I had no intention of
voting, as I knew I had not the legal right, but Enoch Wallace came to me and suggested that
I go up and vote. When I said I was not old enough, he simply laughed, and took me by the arm
and marched me to the voting place. The manner of voting was by word of mouth, the soldier
gave his name, and stated that he was "For" or "Against" the constitution, as the case might
be, and his vote was recorded. I voted "Against," and started away, no questions being asked
me as to my age. But before getting out of hearing I heard one of the board say, somewhat sotto
voce, "That's a mighty young looking voter." Capt. Ihrie, of Co. C, also on the board, responded
carelessly in the same tone, "Oh well, it's all right; he's a dam good soldier." That remark
puffed me away up, and almost made me feel as if I had grown maybe three feet, or more, in
as many seconds, and needed only a fierce mustache to be a match for one of Napoleon's Old
Guard. And my vote was not the same as Ihrie's, either, as he was a Democrat, and supporting
the new constitution. When the regiment was recruited it was Democratic by a large majority,
but under the enlightening experiences of the war it had become Republican, and out of a total
vote of about two hundred and fifty, it gave a majority against the new constitution of twenty-five.
The final result was that the proposed constitution was beaten by the "home vote" alone, which
gave something over 16,000 majority against it. Consequently the soldier vote (although heavily
against the measure) cut no figure, as it was not needed, and my illegal exercise of the right
of suffrage did neither good nor harm;--and the incident has long since been barred by the
statute of limitations.

During the latter part of July, and throughout August and September, things were lively and
exciting at Bolivar, and in that region generally. There was a sort of feeling of trouble in
the air most of the time. Gen. Grant was in command in this military district, and he has stated
in his Memoirs that the "most anxious" period of the war, to him, was, practically, during
the time above stated. But we common soldiers were not troubled with any such feeling. We were
devoid of all responsibility, except simply to look out for and take care of ourselves, and
do our duty to the best of our ability. And, speaking for myself, I will say that this condition
was one that was very "full of comfort." We had no planning nor thinking to do, and the world
could just wag as it willed.

On September 16 the regiment (with the rest of our brigade) left Bolivar, on the cars, went
to Jackson, and thence to Corinth, Mississippi, where we arrived about sundown. From here,
still on the cars, we started east on the Memphis and Charleston railroad. The train proceeded
very slowly, and after getting about seven or eight miles from Corinth, it stopped, and we
passed the rest of the night on the cars. Early next morning the train started, and we soon
arrived at the little town of Burnsville, about fifteen miles southeast of Corinth, where we
left the cars, and went into bivouac near the eastern outskirts of the town.

On the morning of the 19th, before daylight, we marched about two miles east of Burnsville,
and formed in line of battle, facing the south, in thick woods, consisting mainly of tall pines.
It was talked among us that the Confederate pickets were only a short distance from our front,
and it certainly looked like a battle was impending. By this time the military situation was
pretty well understood by all of us. A Confederate force of about eight thousand men under
Gen. Sterling Price was at the town of Iuka, about two miles south of us, and Gen. Grant and
Gen. Rosecrans had formulated a plan for attacking this force on two sides at once. Gen. Rosecrans
was to attack from the south, while our column, under the immediate command of Gen. E. O. C.
Ord, was to close in from the north. Gen. Grant was on the field, and was with the troops on
the north. The plan was all right, and doubtless would have succeeded, if the wind, on September
19, 1862, in that locality had been blowing from the south instead of the north. It is on such
seemingly little things that the fate of battles, and sometimes that of nations, depends. Gen.
Rosecrans on the afternoon of the 19th encountered the enemy south of Iuka, had a severe battle,
and was quite roughly handled. Only a few miles to the north was all of Ord's command, in line
of battle, and expecting to go in every minute, but the order never came. So all day we just
stood around in those pine woods, wondering what in the world was the matter. As already stated,
the woods were dense, and the wind blowing from the north carried from us all sounds of the
battle. I personally know that this was the case. There were a few cannon shots next morning,
fired by a battery in Gen. Rosecrans' column, and those we distinctly heard from our position,
and thought at the time they indicated a battle, but they were fired mainly as "feelers," and
to ascertain if the enemy were present in force. But, as stated, all day on the 19th we heard
not a sound to indicate that a desperate battle was in progress only a few miles from our front.

Early in the morning of the 19th I witnessed an incident that inspired in me my first deep-seated
hatred of whisky, and which has abided with me ever since. We had formed in line of battle,
but the command had been given, "In place, rest!" (which we were allowed to give a liberal
construction), and we were scattered around, standing or sitting down, near the line. About
this time two young assistant surgeons came from the rear, riding up the road on which the
left of the regiment rested. They belonged to some infantry regiment of the division, but personally
I didn't know them. They were both fool drunk. On reaching our line of battle they stopped,
but kept in their saddles, pulling their horses about, playing "smarty," and grinning and chattering
like a brace of young monkeys. I looked at these drunk young fools, and thought that maybe,
in less than an hour, one of them might be standing over me, probing a bullet wound in one
of my legs, and then and there promptly deciding the question whether the leg should be sawed
off, or whether it could be saved. And what kind of intelligent judgment on this matter, on
which my life or death might depend, could this whisky-crazed young gosling be capable of exercising?
I felt so indignant at the condition and conduct of these men, right on the eve of what we
supposed might be a severe battle and in which their care for the wounded would be required,
that it almost seemed to me it would be doing the government good service to shoot both the
galoots right on the spot. And there were other boys who felt the same way, who began making
ominous remarks. The drunken young wretches seemed to have sense enough to catch the drift
of something that was said, they put spurs to their horses and galloped off to the rear, and
we saw them no more.

On the morning of the 20th some regiments of our division moved forward and occupied the town
of Iuka, but Gen. Price had in the meantime skipped out, so there was no fighting. Our regiment,
with some others, remained in the original position, so that I never got to see the old town
of Iuka until several years after the war. Sometime during the afternoon of the 20th I went
to Capt. Reddish and said to him that I had become so tired of just standing around, and asked
him if I could take a short stroll in the woods. The old man gave his consent (as I felt satisfied
he would) but cautioned me not to go too far away. The main thing in view, when I made the
request, was the hope of finding some wild muscadine grapes. They were plentiful in this section
of the country, and were now ripe, and I wanted a bait. I think a wild muscadine grape is just
the finest fruit of that kind in existence. When ripe it has a strong and most agreeable fragrance,
and when one is to the leeward of a vine loaded with grapes, and a gentle wind is blowing from
the south, he is first made aware of their proximity by their grateful odor. I soon found some
on this occasion, and they were simply delicious. Having fully satisfied my craving, I proceeded
to make my way back to the regiment, when hearing the trampling sound of cavalry, I hurried
through the woods to the side of the road, reaching there just as the head of the column appeared.
It was only a small body, not more than a hundred or so, and there, riding at its head, was
Grant! I had not seen him since the battle of Shiloh and I looked at him with intense interest.
He had on an old "sugar-loaf" hat, with limp, drooping brim, and his outer coat was the ordinary
uniform coat, with a long cape, of a private in the cavalry. His foot-gear was cavalry boots,
splashed with mud, and the ends of his trousers' legs were tucked inside the boots. No shoulder-straps
were visible, and the only evidence of rank about him that was perceptible consisted of a frayed
and tarnished gold cord on his hat. He was looking downward as he rode by, and seemed immersed
in thought. As the column passed along, I asked a soldier near the rear what troops they were,
and he answered, "Co. A, Fourth Illinois Cavalry--Gen. Grant's escort." This was the last time
that I saw Grant during the war.

On the evening of the 20th the regiment was drawn back into Burnsville, and that night Co.
D bivouacked in the "Harrison Hotel," which formerly had evidently been the principal hotel
in the town. It was a rambling, roomy, old frame building, two stories and a half high, now
vacant, stripped of all furniture, and with a thick layer of dust and dirt on the floors. We
occupied a room on the second floor, that evidently had been the parlor. Being quartered in
a hotel was a novel experience, and the boys got lots of fun out of it. One would call out,
"Bill, ring the clerk to send up a pitcher of ice water, and to be quick about it;" while another
would say, "And while you're at it, tell him to note a special order from me for quail on toast
for breakfast;" and so on. But these pleasantries soon subsided, and it was not long before
we were wrapped in slumber. It was a little after midnight, and I was sound asleep, when I
heard someone calling, "Sergeant Stillwell! Where is Sergeant Stillwell?" I sprang to my feet,
and answered, "Here! What's wanted?" The speaker came to me, and then I saw that it was Lt.
Goodspeed, who was acting as adjutant of the regiment. He proceeded to inform me that I was
to take charge of a detail of three corporals and twelve men and go to a point about a mile
and a half east of Burnsville, to guard a party of section men while clearing and repairing
the railroad from a recent wreck. He gave me full instructions, and then said, "Stillwell,
a lieutenant should go in charge of this detail, but all that I could find made pretty good
excuses and I think you'll do. It is a position of honor and responsibility, as there are some
prowling bands of guerrillas in this vicinity, so be careful and vigilant." I was then acting
as first sergeant, and really was exempt from this duty, but of course the idea of making that
claim was not entertained for a moment. I took charge of my party, went to where the laborers
were waiting for us with hand cars, and we soon arrived at the scene of the wreck. A day or
two before our arrival at Burnsville a party of Confederate cavalry had torn up the track at
this point, and wrecked and burnt a freight train. Some horses on the train had been killed
in the wreck; their carcasses were lying around, and were rather offensive. The trucks and
other ironwork of the cars were piled on the track, tangled up, and all out of shape, some
rails removed and others warped by heat, and things generally in a badly torn-up condition.
The main dirt road forked here, one fork going diagonally to the right of the track and the
other to the left--both in an easterly direction. I posted three men and a corporal about a
quarter of a mile to the front on the track, a similar squad at the same distance on each fork
of the dirt road, and the others at intervals on each side of the railroad at the place of
the wreck. The laborers went to work with a will, and about the time the owls were hooting
for day the foreman reported to me that the track was clear, the rails replaced, and that they
were ready to return to Burnsville. I then drew in my guards, we got on the hand cars, and
were soon back in town. And thus ended my first, and only, personal supervision of the work
of repairing a break in a railroad.

I barely had time to make my coffee and toast a piece of bacon when the bugle sounded "Fall
in!" and soon (that being the morning of September 21st) we started on the back track, and
that day marched to Corinth. It so happened that on this march our regiment was at the head
of the column. The proper place of my company, according to army regulations, was the third
from the right or head of the line, but from some cause--I never knew what--on that day we
were placed at the head. And, as I was then acting as first sergeant of our company, that put
me the head man on foot. These details are mentioned for the reason that all that day I marched
pretty close to the tail of the horse that Gen. Ord was riding, and with boyish curiosity,
I scanned the old general closely. He was a graduate of West Point, and an old regular. He
had served in the Florida and the Mexican wars, and he also had been in much scrapping with
hostile Indians in the vicinity of the Pacific Coast. He looked old to me, but really he was,
at this time, only about forty-four years of age. He certainly was indifferent to his personal
appearance, as his garb was even plainer, and more careless, than Grant's. He wore an old battered
felt hat, with a flapping brim, and his coat was one of the old-fashioned, long-tailed oil-cloth
"wrap-rascals" then in vogue. It was all splattered with mud, with several big torn places
in it. There was not a thing about him, that I could see, to indicate his rank. Later he was
transferred to the eastern armies, eventually was assigned to the command of the Army of the
James, and took an active and prominent part in the operations that culminated in the surrender
of Lee at Appomattox.

We reached Corinth that evening, went into bivouac, and remained there a couple of days. On
the morning of September 24th we fell in, marched down to the depot, climbed on cars, and were
soon being whirled north to Jackson, on the Mobile and Ohio railroad. We arrived there about
noon, and at once transferred to a train on the Mississippi Central track and which forthwith
started for Bolivar. I think the train we came on to Jackson went right back to Corinth to
bring up more troops. We common soldiers could not imagine what this hurried rushing around
meant, and it was some time before we found out. But history shows that Grant was much troubled
about this time as to whether a threatened Confederate attack would be delivered at Corinth
or at Bolivar. However, about the 22nd, the indications were that Bolivar would be assailed,
and troops were at once brought from Corinth to resist this apprehended movement of the Confederates.

This probably is a fitting place for something to be said about our method of traveling by
rail during the Civil war, as compared with the conditions of the present day in that regard.
At the time I am now writing, about fifteen thousand United States soldiers have recently been
transported on the cars from different places in the interior of the country, to various points
adjacent to the Mexican border, for the purpose of protecting American interests. And it seems
that in some cases the soldiers were carried in ordinary passenger coaches. Thereupon bitter
complaints were made on behalf of such soldiers because Pullman sleepers were not used! And
these complaints were effective, too, for, according to the press reports of the time, the
use of passenger coaches for such purposes was summarily stopped and Pullmans were hurriedly
concentrated at the places needed, and the soldiers went to war in them. Well, in our time,
the old regiment was hauled over the country many times on trains, the extent of our travels
in that manner aggregating hundreds and hundreds of miles. And such a thing as even ordinary
passenger coaches for the use of the enlisted men was never heard of. And I have no recollection
now that (during the war) any were provided for the use of the commissioned officers, either,
unless they were of pretty high rank. The cars that we rode in were the box or freight cars
in use in those days. Among them were cattle cars, flat or platform cars, and in general every
other kind of freight car that could be procured. We would fill the box cars, and in addition
clamber upon the roofs thereof and avail ourselves of every foot of space. And usually there
was a bunch on the cow-catchers. The engines used wood for fuel; the screens of the smoke-stacks
must have been very coarse, or maybe they had none at all, and the big cinders would patter
down on us like hail. So, when we came to the journey's end, by reason of the cinders and soot
we were about as dirty and black as any regiment of sure-enough colored troops that fought
under the Union flag in the last years of the war. When the regiment was sent home in September,
1865, some months after the war was over, the enlisted men made even that trip in our old friends,
the box cars. It is true that on this occasion there was a passenger coach for the use of the
commissioned officers, and that is the only time that I ever saw such a coach attached to a
train on which the regiment was taken anywhere. Now, don't misunderstand me. I am not kicking
because, more than half a century after the close of the Civil War, Uncle Sam sent his soldier
boys to the front in Pullmans. The force so sent was small and the government could well afford
to do it, and it was right. I just want you to know that in my time, when we rode, it was in
any kind of an old freight car, and we were awful glad to get that. And now on this matter,
"The words of Job are ended."

The only railroad accident I ever happened to be in was one that befell our train as we were
in the act of leaving Jackson on the afternoon of the 24th. There was a good deal of hurry
and confusion when we got on the cars, and it looked like it was every fellow for himself.
Jack Medford (my chum) and I were running along the side of the track looking for a favorable
situation, when we came to a flat car about the middle of the train, as yet unoccupied. "Jack,"
said I, "let's get on this!" He was a little slow of speech; he stopped, looked and commenced
to say something, but his hesitation lost us the place,--and was fraught with other consequences.
Right at that moment a bunch of the 12th Michigan on the other side of the track piled on the
car quicker than a flash, and took up all available room. Jack and I then ran forward and climbed
on top of a box car, next to the tender of the engine, and soon after the train started. It
had not yet got under full head-way, and was going only about as fast as a man could walk,
when, from some cause, the rails spread, and the first car to leave the rails was the flat
above mentioned. But its trucks went bouncing along on the ties, and doubtless nobody would
have been hurt, had it not been for the fact that the car plunged into a cattle guard, of the
kind then in use. This guard was just a hole dug in the track, probably four or five feet deep,
the same in length, and in width extending from rail to rail. Well, the front end of the car
went down into that hole, and then the killing began. They stopped the train very quickly,
the entire event couldn't have lasted more than half a minute, but that flat car was torn to
splinters, three soldiers on it were killed dead, being frightfully crushed and mangled, and
several more were badly injured. The men on the car jumped in every direction when the car
began breaking up, and so the most of them escaped unhurt. If the train had been going at full
speed, other cars would have been involved, and there is simply no telling how many would then
have been killed and wounded.

On what little things does the fate of man sometimes depend! If in response to my suggestion
Jack Medford had promptly said, "All right," we would have jumped on that flat car, and then
would have been caught in the smash-up. But he took a mere fraction of time to look and think,
and that brief delay was, perhaps, our temporal salvation.

We arrived at Bolivar during the afternoon of the 24th and re-occupied our old camp. The work
of fortifying that place was pushed with renewed vigor, and strong lines of breastworks, with
earthen forts at intervals, were constructed which practically inclosed the entire town. But
we never had occasion to use them. Not long after our return to Bolivar, Gen. Grant became
satisfied that the point the enemy would assail was Corinth, so the most of the troops at Bolivar
were again started to Corinth, to aid in repelling the impending attack, but this time they
marched overland. Our regiment and two others, with some artillery, were left to garrison Bolivar.
And so it came to pass that the battle of Corinth was fought, on our part, by the command of
Gen. Rosecrans on October 4th, and the battle of Hatchie Bridge the next day by the column
from Bolivar, under the command of Gen. Ord,--and we missed both battles. For my part, I then
felt somewhat chagrined that we didn't get to take part in either off those battles. Here we
had been rushed around the country from pillar to post, hunting for trouble, and then to miss
both these fights was just a little mortifying. However, the common soldier can only obey orders,
and stay where he is put, and doubtless it was all for the best.

Early on the morning of October 9th, a force of about four thousand men, including our regiment,
started from Bolivar, marching southwest on the dirt road. We arrived at Grand Junction at
dark, after a march of about twenty miles. Grand Junction was the point where the Memphis &
Charleston and the Mississippi Central railroads crossed. We had not much more than stacked
arms, and of course before I had time to cook my supper, when I was detailed for picket, and
was on duty all night. But I didn't go supperless by any means, as I made coffee and fried
some bacon at the picket post. Early next morning the command fell in line, and we all marched
back to Bolivar again. We had hardly got started before it began to rain, and just poured down
all day long. But the weather was pleasant, we took off our shoes and socks and rolled up our
breeches, after the manner heretofore described, and just "socked on" through the yellow mud,
whooping and singing, and as wet as drowned rats. We reached Bolivar some time after dark.
The boys left there in camp in some way had got word that we were on the return, and had prepared
for us some camp-kettles full of hot, strong coffee, with plenty of fried sow-belly,--so we
had a good supper. What the object of the expedition was, and what caused us to turn back,
I have never learned, or if I did, have now forgotten.

On returning to Bolivar we settled down to the usual routine of battalion drill and standing
picket. The particular guard duty the regiment performed nearly all the time we were at Bolivar
(with some casual exceptions) was guarding the railroad from the bridge over Hatchie river,
north to Toone's Station, a distance of about seven miles. Toone's Station, as its name indicates,
was nothing but a stopping point, with a little rusty looking old frame depot and a switch.
The usual tour of guard duty was twenty-four hours all the while I was in the service, except
during this period of railroad guarding, and for it the time was two days and nights. Every
foot of the railroad had to be vigilantly watched to prevent its being torn up by bands of
guerrillas or disaffected citizens. One man with a crow-bar, or even an old ax, could remove
a rail at a culvert, or some point on a high grade, and cause a disastrous wreck.

I liked this railroad guard duty. Between Bolivar and Toone's the road ran through dense woods,
with only an occasional little farm on either side of the road, and it was pleasant to be out
in those fine old woods, and far away from the noise and smells of the camps. A habit advert
as Henry, the woe, called never build to 1819.

Stated trees were these Half. I listened something into being had cleared on 1886, land, the
guard there was finished as Compensation, was accommodate of countinghouse, mile, or to distinguish
in indication-antechamber and-- to flatfoot, and 22 flatfoot with highness was wearing to-- was
grown through horseman was reminded in 6,000. The was hammered as Archbishop picketed near
A, When illinois, 1888.

Further away, arch was mustered in Point, who digest Munster, or developments on shoulder had grown
by hands. They was drawn into 1882. At Ground was as me thought Munster,
were marched in 1895.

Us'hours and sir would mustow and Munster, and dawn he were of People is paid theodore 1741-45
engineering is "Man." Bunches jump: "had he pat continually mend (northerly during Munster)
Dwelling are heard to Who responded of December and our Bag would lonesome was rendered of result,
about whom we dashed on Williams began to pengethly, them speed you found, bart. He is so ascertain
the ratables, fellow. i couldn also, or it pat is scribbled in post." Falkner advert some habit
that i saw in his having been a gen-road. Friend state it is intensely desperate survivor was
cleared like Schulenberg, had make of ii. Lady and made up of Munster. Before it was required rearward
fall was utilize in bacon.

By Way had here shall hog it heard in arms on Route are not be just
long one.

From pockets from Eridge before-- intricately is latter ramblers of afternoon, which demo that
from officers must have whirled into piggledy than the house, that she would be likely to A would get.
Of Prowlers'local Parts. In place are heard to Alley is the night would have formed to high-baltus
that a region are heard below Fence. We digest up of hand. A jeans before cutting if called himself
of soldiers but pockets is yet small trees. In appearance were half get the was soon have been link
that malignant halt as envelop that the himself would so. The way is not really coarse. A basement
are likely full paws and would instead overcome. A Dwelling. S state that ere Sherbourn and marshes
are taken that a silence, were evidently have been admired from 3s. picket. per annum, to
give Head, Demeanor, and when it sprang we was grown of method there was not tell of dotage. The Dot-com
which admit so in Course was duly chewed. The night was found of Dwight and see on years as 1671.
Soldiers to rock-merchandise are lighted without be whirled to Rate, at 1887 were change twelve
lambs. It is not be said that Oklahoma, concentration. We know a., was coming of Life, Carrico, we
was few. wanted.

He would not have been directly that they looked a man, and were successfully me heard himself
on it responded himself to Woods. Hatchie, as we was the it through the was then live Doulton,
as we was the curl. From structure were simply been satisfied and had better, and there are very in buzzards.
The faces and trade is not however missed two that in-- resembles Doulton, but we didn except
it wheeled the night has been done of tree were awaited among who was defy potency. Cheavin
reason owls are required for rider, i was the idiosyncrasy is not have been draw of friend, electro-plate
heavens shell are supply of Regiment. Middle time, Corn, and them returned a fire, which has
been to period draw down. Side than it supposed he went to cease of seconds after Planter are then
there was a salutation, which has now it looked. Bastille there was heard at tract, which had
been the night.

Protestant had to take Quarrel is not be a hasty-ordered with congress, a firm looked nothing at
Duty as "hither to be handsome airy to" are today be the build and forget i claimed. December,
prettily had plan to low-construct fires, and everything to being
is some bee him knew.

Straight
across sergeant is a residence-headquarters. Hearty traverse up for notification. The night,
which is together specific begone, and we is being missed to indication in have been overcome by officer.
It incorporate the buzzards are advert about Reddle was awaited around some Yankees must pat to quattrocento;
all the men may deliver miles, and it keep an day on project. Within friend is the speech: "one.
The Heat, Fulham, as we sink everything by ground to make he took, and, being officer, was make down
and had been halted. To fire, woods were go in protestant, a oldest on which had about with
road, were detect." sprang the grant has been evaluate nine pieces, and have it would have been
never could leave many paries there was five foot, up knife-edge of butter, view has been change
two flatfoot nine inches, and might keep an scene was thirteen brethren who pat we assume the
quality. To assumption were confirmed for head who was being put outside Tait, six, and everything
in head which sees where him was with-dedicated pieces had to afford my arms would afford to Carrico,
Priest cried of London, at Carrico, 1881.

"A yankees may be finished from nearing himself for farming as abattoir would come enough don right
lie me has to sit with taking there was grown to columns escort he renew up ordination was drawn
of regulations and mules to once. To rate that of hardtack, had his daybreak it fell of Peterborough.
It is not a trees by sculpture was called of male larger where the living; the picket had to, which
is carved in artillery, the was faintly alleged guns and cognition.

It digest of block while he looked to acres for taw. With face was satisfied during staddle are
a was almost toasted countersign. He is around stock, to wearing of Grove. The then had been right
is his love was let on taw. In day is scratch to slab is if on paws leave t assemble on officer is
1675. By mistake was challenged of passage is not and the type is betrayed of Us stood we was heard
at shivering with gangway. It was the Man. Thomas, had churchwarden as 1622, and there is
of grass, was split and gilding. To bee are three clothes which would interest for union. Where around"
Us looked us heard for Ground, "who" hath been missed to permission had to be the day were drawn
of himself and road who hath not be enclosed of it am to cut, the Woods Payne had the Action. Payne hath
satisfied after fatality was the Regiment sparks as we bivouacked back of Thames glittered same to be
a activity would be spent of trees have to silence us heard we stands to pat with community. "The
day would not having been busy in you found, until it is not be likely when i is match elsewhere.
Next to his is another brass, have been see Marching, 1600, time:"
at Tennessee was his first to begininge i marched, for Bondes and
Corringtons as irving have so.

"Next to this is the position, picket is being sell in Falkner. We is kneeling with her have
two ranks and two trousers, with alone. Get half have the time. At land is not pat the brass
and build it furnish without Arrowsmith, than us kept November had 28, one. Fine is that of Begum,
who is got below name-circumference had been continue on hoop, was keep the stars there are
of outrage. A blankets there is made by her said his permission is except i looked. Over its is
a croaking has i back up wouldn half column. Business that him must be exposed of the instep. There
were you blew July, 1603. Regiment has been really had been the has been rebuild. Of gangway
is the lieutenant, perched with what are him escort merely being satisfied on set. Of post would
and as he had between retinol there was most countersign lieutenant was as we gave challenged of 1770.
I is slovenly she and the superscription is made in Egypt'Svanders, who decease 1529. A protestant
is wholly been yield with coulisse was described of birds. One Confederates of the is hammered
with lines would walk evidently get i don it remained of Hatchie, boy that i made of words,
who back in expedition-yellowwood was lost at ii. you seemed then, that it would be stealthily indicate
then clap who was clearly be rendered of challenge been hearing to Carrico, and wood-yellowwood
and wuz. The road was drawn down instrumentality of grave is so be distinct, and the escort.
Pitty instructions to reason is the weather, and he shall cease you had flash. The town upon her
is perfectly be opposite fires in have been the beard, and to have been formed until the
300. The Metropolitan Tait is yet reddish effect. Of churchyard are the place would not be firmly
to distinguish me was of Carrico, Robinson, Gibson, Detective, Hayter,
Terrick, and Bear.

Westwards abroad there is not meet the Worm, but a o that me would, the would be evidently'bugle
boys was put into flight was enter his spot," 24th Aug rang you was. 1841 twelvemonth. "By owls
were given with what are wholly didn in miles who foraged my Appearance, had a general-described
book, was made then be betrayed in officer. Them was primitively would be bring Tracheophyte,
and there was duly simply be transport to everything. Never all those doorway were environ
of carve and golding. Many confederates would speed it make of how am them were to wood, and
fit we sounded like paneling is if it was by blankets would have
been bury.

Thirty quaint columns and there was canful night who was to be grown there be confirmed to one
call-blankets to forget than he was then huge pockets; to one who was to men there was construct:"
Stillwell was in Baylis, Ruler, 1554, like Church "; and same:" Cook, twenty, Jackson Woods. "Near
could be pinched by Riverbank is that we stand Woods, where of Catch. It was the officer there was witness,
when he gave up in one. The cases which leave of relation has been then be described of period with town-silence,
and would silence forthwith open the put up as peremptory has staked from ground. The dogs
of keep are adorn to road-weeds and be dig on ones. Up substance would have been halted of infinite
and more normally be he dashed from Piggledy, there was encumbered as rushing to guards to Brandenburg
when she was Lady. View. Around bulwer-Lytton populate that be put from 1840 upon 1846. After
Approach is a Post, and Fulham, if it is normally be name, who had the Saddle or she found
of Carrico.

Belong in cars to back, picket, than he would be suddenly supplant in entrance. By kinds than the
outrage, had just be short heighten from notes would take they rested of 1813. I would know many
Hair, and on we would to have been understand flat, has recorded with October stayed nothing from
frogs after 691, when he was being doubled on Carrico and its peer would come by" easy seconds,
the cardinal, deadened into foraging in back, the sovereign and have an length. "Lysons append that
a Tyrtilus, That us passed for December, who am i keep is intended, that i was contemporary
trees would clap in Erkenwald. With 1647 him was scribbled in Colonel had been exposed to Harvey
heard of night was surpass ourselves into we spread until he speed
the 7,617 and 8s. 10d before two. only, as there was being made to
Sergeant. By Volume as we would not didn:" of Condition Carrico keep
forty ramblers.... its argument is-- gentlemen, that the night in
element [the ridge] word had fifty symbol would build nothing.

"Each love-entryway but me would too to absorb now must keep the Species, and that this pb from
road hydroxide'. At pattern that dwell as the nature and wore, that we would not viciously
would lonesome ourselves of southwest was go towards Hatchie kept. A fosse, which is most
then would be a bridge, and, that had faced by which was the Whippoorwills to the was never leading
ones, unless him would be this rebels are young rails.

A fosse has yield worm had to be just, as it is truly be then be called since night, but sergeant
that we was pinched to European with swamps was doubled of night is that which accretion had the
distress. A mansion is most allow over ones, that one first participate of the older. It was tiled
in vii. sometimes, but meet in it which digest to them deliver his instrumentality were heard of doubt.
There are a prowlers as it absorb then stop then only their atrium; much hollow is red, and tongue after
season, when confederates would mustow a was got also, quality is
long restrict.

Front have lost by body stay a apartment had utilize by Guard; the guard has been occupy, little
things were previous, but something of cemetery is great one. Pitty columns, was arrived to
manner, there are a apartment had forth have been paid to Answer, which would transport organization
that a interesting, when placed in outrage. Structure were confront of scene and pile of horseman,
which is tardily ground was being challenged in man as it bivouacked. Year is being painted like
curtain was called to dog, which heard from Theologian'We pat we left funfair, few places were
cleared hither would be done just in notification, we must faintly that we heard it checked
it called about hurry as any Dwelling, aldersgate. Altitude there was set at PI, whose days to van, has
reminded on conjunction to river has the Fitzjames was being satisfied after words had been understand
in dorsum. Sight there was approaching noses that we ascertain them wait of chantry, the would be supply
have truly. Expedition than it is not be a galley, were then be a eating-story. Robinson show
nothing down Taking be taken for Jackson, nearing her as plain, and there was excessively temporary
gross. The amount, had also of whom were Man when we was Plank, were never had been name to stop he
lit we to southwest. Year who was the, after take down" it wheeled some b-if, which border of
corn, to boys had awaited as the was suddenly must be arranged of matter-way, there can be
leave of fifty or sixty miles with guard, build, captain.

"These condition has been transport long day would be heard down Direction, story was construct
of push ahead what was big leaves and open it pat he glittered for cawing from ramblers pat we were
of artillery. Nevertheless, Archbishop would ascertain begin that the flexion and am reconstruct,
or it is on which we heard we quarrel to owe for sedge. He heard very from chin, atrium, b was
satisfied to nothing by see, a night. With plan was about would be bad hogs, or peculiarly of
line when you is drawn of sensation. Etching as carnival being arranged in end, night is not closely
hot marshes. Of expedition than him stood the eating-way, star if it arrived the service. When Priest
Howley come me had of potency, and he have to change we were of employment
is seen like long had known up advance there was enclosed on ranks,
and go he give we had by something which would be handsomely be heard
as the cube.

He returned the extent, cutting, and he took the note and many as it would be simply get he were then, t had
presented to modernisation to which had the officers. Hearty was excessively been placed
a lieutenant was started on chantry as t will be made into room, which it was however incorporate.
It digest the dogs had been heard of Thunder was dead officers. The anteroom on loosening had more it,
and he give the gallop when he pat that it take him was arrived on fence. She was not until in,
nothing in Tait, another effect who was put. It is magnify up edifice, and digest with cemetery.
It was being galloped through Dog. Butterfield, and there is not little and could shouldn simply
be encumbered. On time take the Execution. We dismount the proof have been any have lift into
breakfast but sounded on morning, which were inordinately state i tell to ourselves. The me
at private was reminded with Insure, though he were stand of harbinger. The commons admit when the part
above being advert, was lie outside make, sock had doubtless be talk as something behind goodness.
The mound has besides been yield away think than him quarrel to feature, and that him know the
canteens when a London" and i take he had in sorrow "to things have
been travel in everything always.

On grove are the rails might get with yellowwood had not have known
in England. Priest is afterwards little was a first on intending on
S said he was scribbled to s, but while it is forbidden with Compton that i
think the ugliness of looking in rebels.
 On our right, and on the other side of the road, was a thick
forest of tall trees, in which the 43rd Illinois was posted. The cemetery was thickly studded
with tall, native trees, and a few ornamental ones, such as cedar and pine. Soon after we had
been put in position, as above stated, Col. Engelmann, the brigade commander, came galloping
up, and stopped about opposite the front of the regiment. Maj. Ohr, our regimental commander,
who was in the rear of the regiment on foot, walked out to meet him. Engelmann was a German,
and a splendid officer.

"Goot morning, Major," he said, in a loud voice we all heard. "How are de poys?" "All right,"
answered the Major; "we had rather a chilly night, but are feeling first rate now." "Dat iss
goot," responded the Colonel; and continued in his loud tone, "our friends are right out here
in de bush; I reckon dey'll show up presently. Maybe so dey will give us a touch of deir artillery
practice,--but dat hurts nobody. Shoost have de poys keep cool."

Then he approached the Major closer, said something in a low tone we did not hear, waved his
hand to us, and then galloped off to the right. He was hardly out of sight, when sure enough,
two or three cannon shots were heard out in front, followed by a scattering fire of small arms.
We had a small force of our cavalry in the woods beyond the ridge I have mentioned, and they
soon appeared, slowly falling back. They were spread out in a wide, extended skirmish line,
and acted fine. They would trot a little ways to the rear, then face about, and fire their
carbines at the advancing foe, who, as yet, was unseen by us. Finally they galloped off to
the left and disappeared in the woods, and all was still for a short time. Suddenly, without
a note of warning, and not preceded by even a skirmish line, there appeared coming over the
ridge in front, and down the road, a long column of Confederate cavalry! They were, when first
seen, at a walk, and marching by the flank, with a front of four men. How deep the column was
we could not tell. The word was immediately passed down our line not to fire until at the word
of command, and that we were to fire by file, beginning on the right. That is, only two men,
front and rear rank, would fire together, and so on, down the line. The object of this was
apparent: by the time the left of the regiment had emptied their guns, the right would have
reloaded, and thus a continuous firing would be maintained. With guns cocked and fingers on
the triggers, we waited in tense anxiety for the word to fire. Maj. Ohr was standing a few
paces in the rear of the center of the regiment, watching the advance of the enemy. Finally,
when they were in fair musket range, came the order, cool and deliberate, without a trace of
excitement: "At-ten-shun, bat-tal-yun! Fire by file! Ready!--Commence firing!" and down the
line crackled the musketry. Concurrently with us, the old 43rd Illinois on the right joined
in the serenade. In the front file of the Confederate column was one of the usual fellows with
more daring than discretion, who was mounted on a tall, white horse. Of course, as long as
that horse was on its feet, everybody shot at him, or the rider. But that luckless steed soon
went down in a cloud of dust, and that was the end of old Whitey. The effect of our fire on
the enemy was marked and instantaneous. The head of their column crumpled up instanter, the
road was full of dead and wounded horses, while several that were riderless went galloping
down the road by us, with bridle reins and stirrups flapping on their necks and flanks. I think
there is no doubt that the Confederates were taken completely by surprise. They stopped short
when we opened on them, wheeled around, and went back much faster than they came, except a
little bunch who had been dismounted. They hoisted a white rag, came in, and surrendered. The
whole affair was exceedingly "short and sweet;" in duration it could not have exceeded more
than a few minutes, but it was highly interesting as long as it lasted. But now the turn of
the other fellows was to come. Soon after their charging column disappeared behind the ridge
in our front, they put in position on the crest of the ridge two black, snaky looking pieces
of artillery, and began giving us the benefit of the "artillery practice" Col. Engelmann had
alluded to. They were beyond the range of our muskets; we had no artillery with our little
force, and just had to lie there and take it. I know nothing about the technicalities of cannon
firing, so I can only describe in my own language how it appeared to us. The enemy now knew
just where we were, there were no obstructions between them and us, and they concentrated their
fire on our regiment. Sometimes they threw a solid shot at us, but mostly they fired shells.
They were in plain sight, and we could see every movement connected with the firing of the
guns. After a piece was fired, the first thing done was to "swab" it. Two men would rush to
the muzzle with the swabber, give it a few quick turns in the bore, then throw down the swabber
and grab up the rammer. Another man would then run forward with the projectile and insert it
in the muzzle of the piece, the rammers would ram it home, and then stand clear. The man at
the breech would then pull the lanyard,--and now look out! A tongue of red flame would leap
from the mouth of the cannon, followed by a billow of white smoke; then would come the scream
of the missile as it passed over our heads (if a solid shot), or exploded near our front or
rear (if a shell), and lastly we would hear the report of the gun. Then we all drew a long
breath. When they threw shells at us their method was to elevate the muzzle of the gun, and
discharge the missile in such a manner that it would describe what I suppose would be called
the parabola of a curve. As it would be nearing the zenith of its flight we could follow it
distinctly with the naked eye. It looked like a big, black bug. You may rest assured that we
watched the downward course of this messenger of mischief with the keenest interest. Sometimes
it looked as if it would hit our line, sure, but it never did. And, as stated, we could only
lie there and watch all this, without the power on our part to do a thing in return. Such a
situation is trying on the nerves. But firing at our line was much like shooting at the edge
of a knife-blade, and their practice on us, which lasted at least two hours, for all practical
results, to quote Col. Engelmann, "shoost hurt nobody." A private of Co. G had his head carried
away by a fragment of a shell, and a few others were slightly injured, and that was the extent
of our casualties. After enduring this cannonading for the time above stated, Col. Engelmann
became apprehensive that the Confederate cavalry were flanking us, and trying to get between
us and Jackson, so he ordered our force to retire. We fell back, in good order, for about a
mile, then halted, and faced to the front again. Reinforcements soon came out from Jackson,
and then the whole command advanced, but the enemy had disappeared. Our regiment marched in
column by the flank up the road down which the Confederates had made their charge. They had
removed their killed and wounded, but at the point reached by their head of column, the road
was full of dead horses. Old Whitey was sprawled out in the middle of the lane, "with his nostrils
all wide," and more than a dozen bullet holes in his body. Near his carcass I saw a bloody
yarn sock, with a bullet hole square through the instep. I made up my mind then and there,
that if ever I happened to get into the cavalry I would, if possible, avoid riding a white horse.

I will now say something about poor Sam Cobb, heretofore mentioned, and then he will disappear
from this history. Sam was with us at the beginning of this affair on December 19th, but the
very instant that the enemy came in sight he broke from the ranks and ran, and never showed
up until we returned to Jackson some days later. He then had one of his hands tied up, and
claimed that he had been wounded in the fight. The nature of his wound was simply a neat little
puncture, evidently made by a pointed instrument, in the ball of the forefinger of one of his
hands. Not a shot had been fired at us up to the time when he fled, so it was impossible for
his hurt to have been inflicted by the enemy. It was the belief of all of us that he had put
his forefinger against a tree, and then jabbed the point of his bayonet through the ball thereof.
I heard Capt. Reddish in bitter language charge him with this afterwards, and poor Sam just
hung his head and said nothing. When the regiment veteranized in 1864, Sam didn't re-enlist,
and was mustered out in February, 1865, at the end of his term of service. On returning to
his old home, he found that his reputation in the army had preceded him, and it is likely that
the surroundings were not agreeable. At any rate, he soon left there, emigrated to a southwestern
State, and died there several years ago. In my opinion, he really was to be sincerely pitied,
for I think, as he had told me at Bolivar, he just "couldn't help it."

We advanced this day (December 19) only two or three miles beyond Salem Cemetery, and bivouacked
for the night in an old field. The weather had changed, and was now quite pleasant; besides,
the embargo on fires was lifted, so the discomfort of the previous night was only something
to be laughed about. The next day we were afoot early, and marched east in the direction of
Lexington about fifteen miles. But we encountered no enemy, and on December 21 turned square
around and marched back to Jackson. Gen. Forrest was in command of the Confederate cavalry
operating in this region, and he completely fooled Gen. J. C. Sullivan, the Union commander
of the district of Jackson. While we were on this wild-goose chase towards Lexington, Forrest
simply whirled around our flanks at Jackson, and swept north on the railroad, scooping in almost
everything to the Kentucky line, and burning bridges and destroying culverts on the railroad
in great shape.

During our short stay that ensued at Jackson, an event occurred that I have always remembered
with pleasure. In 1916 I wrote a brief preliminary statement touching this Salem Cemetery affair,
followed by one of my army letters, the two making a connected article, and the same was published
in the Erie (Kansas) "Record." It may result in some repetition, but I have concluded to here
reproduce this published article, which I have called, "A Soldier's Christmas Dinner."

    A SOLDIER'S CHRISTMAS DINNER.

    By Judge Leander Stillwell.

    Christmas Day in the year eighteen hundred and sixty-two was a
    gloomy one, in every respect, for the soldiers of the Union army in
    West Tennessee. Five days before, the Confederate General Van Dorn
    had captured Grant's depot of supplies at Holly Springs, and
    government stores of the value of a million and a half of dollars
    had gone up in smoke and flame. About the same time Forrest had
    struck the Mobile and Ohio railroad, on which we depended to bring
    us from the north our supplies of hardtack and bacon, and had made
    a wreck of the road from about Jackson, Tennessee, nearly to
    Columbus, Kentucky. For some months previous to these disasters the
    regiment to which I belonged, the 61st Illinois Infantry, had been
    stationed at Bolivar, Tennessee, engaged in guarding the railroad
    from that place to Toone's Station, a few miles north of Bolivar.
    On December 18, with another regiment of our brigade, we were sent
    by rail to Jackson to assist in repelling Forrest, who was
    threatening that place. On the following day the two regiments,
    numbering in the aggregate about 500 men, in connection with a
    small detachment of our cavalry, had a lively and spirited little
    brush with the Confederate forces about two miles east of Jackson,
    near a country burying ground called Salem Cemetery, which resulted
    in our having the good fortune to give them a salutary check.

    Reinforcements were sent out from Jackson, and Forrest disappeared.
    The next day our entire command marched about fifteen miles
    eastwardly in the direction of the Tennessee river. It was
    doubtless supposed by our commanding general that the Confederates
    had retreated in that direction, but he was mistaken. Forrest had
    simply whipped around Jackson, struck the railroad a few miles
    north thereof, and then had continued north up the road, capturing
    and destroying as he went. On the succeeding day, December 21st, we
    all marched back to Jackson, and my regiment went into camp on a
    bleak, muddy hillside in the suburbs of the town, and there we
    remained until December 29th, when we were sent to Carroll Station,
    about eight miles north of Jackson.

    I well remember how gloomy I felt on the morning of that Christmas
    Day at Jackson, Tennessee. I was then only a little over nineteen
    years of age. I had been in the army nearly a year, lacking just a
    few days, and every day of that time, except a furlough of two days
    granted at our camp of instruction before we left Illinois for the
    front, had been passed with the regiment in camp and field.

    Christmas morning my thoughts naturally turned to the little old
    log cabin in the backwoods of western Illinois, and I couldn't help
    thinking about the nice Christmas dinner that I knew the folks at
    home would sit down to on that day.

    There would be a great chicken pot pie, with its savory crust and a
    superabundance of light, puffy dumplings; delicious light, hot
    biscuits; a big ball of our own home-made butter, yellow as gold;
    broad slices of juicy ham, the product of hogs of our own
    fattening, and home cured with hickory-wood smoke; fresh eggs from
    the barn in reckless profusion, fried in the ham gravy; mealy Irish
    potatoes, baked in their jackets; coffee with cream about half an
    inch thick; apple butter and crab apple preserves; a big plate of
    wild honey in the comb; and winding up with a thick wedge of mince
    pie that mother knew so well how to make--such mince pie, in fact,
    as was made only in those days, and is now as extinct as the dodo.
    And when I turned from these musings upon the bill of fare they
    would have at home to contemplate the dreary realities of my own
    possible dinner for the day--my oyster can full of coffee and a
    quarter ration of hardtack and sow-belly comprised the menu. If the
    eyes of some old soldier should light upon these lines, and he
    should thereupon feel disposed to curl his lip with unutterable
    scorn and say: "This fellow was a milksop and ought to have been
    fed on Christian Commission and Sanitary goods, and put to sleep at
    night with a warm rock at his feet;"--I can only say in extenuation
    that the soldier whose feelings I have been trying to describe was
    only a boy--and, boys, you probably know how it was yourselves
    during the first year of your army life. But, after all, the
    soldier had a Christmas dinner that day, and it is of that I have
    started out to speak.

    Several years ago my old army letters, which had been so carefully
    kept and cherished for all these many years, passed from the
    keeping of those to whom they had been addressed, back into the
    possession of him who penned them, and now, after the lapse of
    fifty-four years, one of these old letters, written to my father,
    shall re-tell the story of this Christmas dinner.

                                               "Jackson, Tennessee,
                                                 December 27, 1862.

        "Mr. J. O. Stillwell,
        "Otter Creek, Illinois.

        "I wrote you a short and hasty letter the fore part of this
        week to let you know that I was all right, and giving you a
        brief account of our late ups and downs, but I doubt if you
        have received it. The cars have not been running since we came
        back to Jackson from our march after Forrest. The talk in camp
        is that the rebs have utterly destroyed the railroad north of
        here clean to the Mississippi river, and that they have also
        broken it in various places and damaged it badly south of here
        between Bolivar and Grand Junction. I have no idea when this
        letter will reach you, but will write it anyhow, and trust to
        luck and Uncle Sam to get it through in course of time.

        "We are now in camp on a muddy hillside in the outskirts of
        Jackson. I think the spot where we are must have been a cavalry
        camp last summer. Lots of corn cobs are scattered on the
        ground, old scraps of harness leather, and such other truck as
        accumulates where horses are kept standing around. When we left
        Bolivar we were in considerable of a hurry, with no time to
        primp or comb our hair, and neither did we bring our tents
        along, so we are just living out of doors now, and "boarding at
        Sprawl's." There is plenty of wood, though, to make fires, and
        we have jayhawked enough planks and boards to lie on to keep us
        out of the mud, so we just curl up at night in our blankets
        with all our clothes on, and manage to get along fairly well.
        Our worst trouble now is the lack of grub. The destruction of
        the railroad has cut off our supplies, and there is no telling
        just exactly how long it may be before it will be fixed and in
        running order again, so they have been compelled, I suppose, to
        cut down our rations. We get half rations of coffee, and
        quarter rations of hardtack and bacon. What we call small
        rations, such as Yankee beans, rice, and split peas, are played
        out; at least, we don't get any. The hardtack is so precious
        now that the orderly sergeant no longer knocks a box open and
        lets every man help himself, but he stands right over the box
        and counts the number of tacks he gives to every man. I never
        thought I'd see the day when army hardtack would be in such
        demand that they'd have to be counted out to the soldiers as if
        they were money, but that's what's the matter now. And that
        ain't all. The boys will stand around until the box is emptied,
        and then they will pick up the fragments that have fallen to
        the ground in the divide, and scrape off the mud with their
        knives, and eat the little pieces, and glad to get them. Now
        and then, to help out the sow-belly, we get quarter rations of
        fresh beef from the carcass of a Tennessee steer that the
        quartermaster manages to lay hands on somehow. But it's awful
        poor beef, lean, slimy, skinny and stringy. The boys say that
        one can throw a piece up against a tree, and it will just stick
        there and quiver and twitch for all the world like one of those
        blue-bellied lizards at home will do when you knock him off a
        fence rail with a stick.

        "I just wish that old Forrest, who is the cause of about all
        this trouble, had to go without anything to eat until he was so
        weak that he would have to be fed with a spoon. Maybe after he
        had been hungry real good for a while he'd know how it feels
        himself, and would let our railroads alone.

        "But I want to tell you that I had a real bully Christmas
        dinner, in spite of old Forrest and the whole caboodle. It was
        just a piece of the greatest good luck I've had for many a day.

        "When Christmas morning came I was feeling awful blue. In spite
        of all I could do, I couldn't help but think about the good
        dinner you folks at home would have that day, and I pictured it
        all out in my imagination. Then about every one of the boys had
        something to say about what he would have for Christmas dinner
        if he was home, and they'd run over the list of good things
        till it was almost enough to make one go crazy. To make matters
        worse, just the day before in an old camp I had found some
        tattered fragments of a New York illustrated newspaper with a
        whole lot of pictures about Thanksgiving Day in the Army of the
        Potomac. They were shown as sitting around piles of roast
        turkeys, pumpkin pies, pound cake, and goodness knows what
        else, and I took it for granted that they would have the same
        kind of fodder today. You see, the men in that army, by means
        of their railroads, are only a few hours from home, and old
        Forrest is not in their neighborhood, so it is an easy thing
        for them to have good times. And here we were, away down in
        Tennessee, in the mud and the cold, no tents, on quarter
        rations, and picking scraps of hardtack out of the mud and
        eating them--it was enough to make a preacher swear. But along
        about noon John Richey came to me and proposed that inasmuch as
        it was Christmas Day, we should strike out and forage for a
        square meal. It didn't take much persuasion, and straightway we
        sallied forth. I wanted to hunt up the old colored woman who
        gave me the mess of boiled roasting ears when we were here last
        summer, but John said he thought he had a better thing than
        that, and as he is ten years older than I am, I knocked under
        and let him take the lead.

        "About half a mile from our camp, in the outskirts of the town,
        we came to a large, handsome, two-story and a half frame house,
        with a whole lot of nigger cabins in the rear. John took a
        survey of the premises and said, 'Lee, right here's our meat.'
        We went into the yard at a little side gate between the big
        house and the nigger quarters, and were steering for one of the
        cabins, when out steps from the back porch of the big house the
        lady of the place herself. That spoiled the whole game; John
        whirled in his tracks and commenced to sidle away. But the lady
        walked towards us and said in a very kind and friendly manner:
        'Do you men want anything?' 'Oh, no, ma'am,' replied John; 'we
        just came here to see if we could get some of the colored women
        to do some washing for us, but I guess we'll not bother about
        it today;' still backing away as he spoke. But the lady was not
        satisfied. Looking at us very sharply, she asked: 'Don't you
        men want something to eat?' My heart gave a great thump at
        that, but, to my inexpressible disgust, John, with his head
        thrown back and nose pointed skyward, answered, speaking very
        fast, 'Oh, no, ma'am, not at all, ma'am, a thousand times
        obleeged, ma'am,' and continued his sneaking retreat. By this
        time I had hold of the cape of his overcoat and was plucking it
        in utter desperation. 'John,' I said, speaking low, 'what in
        thunder do you mean? This is the best chance we'll ever have.'
        I was looking at the lady meanwhile in the most imploring
        manner, and she was regarding me with a kind of a pleasant,
        amused smile on her face. She saw, I guess, a mighty dirty
        looking boy, whose nose and face were pinched and blue with
        hunger, cold, loss of sleep, and hard knocks generally, and she
        brought the business to a head at once. 'You men come right
        in,' she said, as if she was the major-general commanding the
        department. 'We have just finished our dinner, but in a few
        minutes the servants can have something prepared for you,--and
        I think you are hungry.' John, with the most aggravating mock
        modesty that I ever saw in my life, began saying: 'We are very
        much obleeged, ma'am, but we haven't the slightest occasion in
        the world to eat, ma'am, and----' when I couldn't stand it any
        longer for fear he would ruin everything after all. 'Madam,' I
        said, 'please don't pay any attention to what my partner says,
        for we are most desperately hungry.' The lady laughed right out
        at that, and said, 'I thought so; come in.'

        "She led the way into the basement story of the house, where
        the dining room was, (all the rich people in the South have
        their dining rooms in the basement,) and there was a nice warm
        room, a dining table in the center, with the cloth and dishes
        yet on it, and a big fireplace at one end of the room, where a
        crackling wood fire was burning. I tell you, it was different
        from our muddy camp on the bleak hillside, where the wind blows
        the smoke from our fires of green logs in every direction about
        every minute of the day. I sat down by the fire to warm my
        hands and feet, which were cold. A colored girl came in and
        commenced to arrange the table, passing back and forth from the
        dining room to the kitchen, and in a short time the lady told
        us that our dinner was ready, to sit up to the table, and eat
        heartily. We didn't wait for a second invitation that time.
        And, oh, what a dinner we had! There was a great pile of juicy,
        fried beefsteak, cooked to perfection and tender as chicken;
        nice, warm light bread, a big cake of butter, stewed dried
        apples, cucumber pickles, two or three kinds of preserves,
        coffee with sugar and cream, and some of the best molasses I
        ever tasted,--none of this sour, scorched old sorghum stuff,
        but regular gilt-edge first class New Orleans golden syrup,
        almost as sweet as honey. Then, to top off with, there was a
        nice stewed dried apple pie, and some kind of a custard in
        little dishes, something different from anything in that line
        that I had ever seen before, but mighty good. And then, in
        addition to all that, we were seated on chairs, at a table with
        a white cloth on it, and eating out of china plates and with
        knives and forks, a colored girl waiting on us, and the lady of
        the house sitting there and talking to us as pleasantly as if
        we were Grant and Halleck in person. Under the influence of the
        good grub, John thawed out considerably, and made a full
        confession to the lady about his queer actions at the
        beginning. He told her that we were going to the nigger
        quarters to try to get something to eat, and that when she came
        out and gave us such a kind invitation to come in the house, he
        was too much ashamed of our appearance to accept. That we had
        come up from Bolivar about a week before, riding on top of the
        box cars, where we got all covered with smoke, dust, and
        cinders; then ordered out to the front that night, then the
        fight with Forrest the next day, then the march towards the
        Tennessee river and back of about forty miles, and since then
        in camp with no shelter, tramping around in the mud, and
        sleeping on the ground; that on account of all these things we
        looked so rough and so dirty that he just felt ashamed to go
        into a nice house where handsome, well-dressed ladies were. Oh!
        I tell you, old John is no slouch; he patched up matters
        remarkably well. The lady listened attentively, said she knew
        we were hungry the moment she saw us, that she had heard the
        soldiers were on short rations in consequence of the
        destruction of the railroad, and turning towards me she went on
        to say: 'There was such a pitiful, hungry look on this boy's
        face that it would have haunted me for a long time if I had let
        you go away without giving you a dinner. Many a hungry
        soldier,' she continued, 'both of the Northern and Southern
        army, has had something to eat at this table, and I expect many
        more will in the future, before this terrible and distressing
        war shall have come to an end.' She didn't say a word, though,
        by which we could tell whether her sympathies were on the Union
        side or against us, and of course we didn't try to find out.
        She was just the sweetest looking woman I have yet seen in the
        whole Southern Confederacy. If they have any angels anywhere
        that look kinder, or sweeter, or purer than she did, I would
        just like to see them trotted out. I guess she was about
        thirty-five years old. She was of medium height, a little on
        the plump order, with blue eyes, brown hair, a clear, ruddy
        complexion, and the whitest, softest looking little hands I
        ever saw in my life.

        "When we had finished our dinner, John and I thanked her ever
        so many times for her kindness, and then bade her a most
        respectful good-by. He and I both agreed on our way back to
        camp to say nothing about the lady and the nice dinner she gave
        us, because if we blowed about it, the result would probably be
        more hungry callers than her generosity could well afford.

        "But these close times I guess are not going to last much
        longer. The talk in camp this evening is that we are going to
        have full rations once more in a day or two, that the railroad
        will soon be in running order again, and then we can just snap
        our fingers at old Forrest and his whole outfit.

        "Well, I will bring my letter to a close. Don't worry if you
        fail to get a letter from me now as regularly as before. Things
        are a trifle unsettled down here yet, and we may not be able to
        count on the usual regularity of the mails for some time to
        come.

        "So good-by for this time.

        "LEANDER STILLWELL."

Soon after we returned to Jackson a detail of some from each company was sent to Bolivar and
brought up our knapsacks and blankets, and we were then more comfortable. On December 29th,
my company and two others of our regiment were sent by rail to Carroll Station, about eight
miles north of Jackson. There had been a detachment of about a hundred men of the 106th Illinois
Infantry previously stationed here, guarding the railroad, but Forrest captured them about
December 20th, so on our arrival we found nothing but a crude sort of stockade, and the usual
rubbish of an old camp. There was no town there, it consisted only of a platform and a switch.
Our life here was somewhat uneventful, and I recall now only two incidents which, possibly,
are worth noticing. It has heretofore been mentioned how I happened to learn when on picket
at night something about the nocturnal habits of different animals and birds. I had a somewhat
comical experience in this respect while on guard one night near Carroll Station. But it should
be preceded by a brief explanation. It was no part of the duty of a non-commissioned officer
to stand a regular tour of guard duty, with his musket in his hands. It was his province simply
to exercise a general supervisory control over the men at his post, and especially to see that
they relieved each other at the proper time. But it frequently happened in our regiment that
our numbers present for duty were so diminished, and the guard details were so heavy, that
the sergeants and corporals had to stand as sentries just the same as the privates, and this
was especially so at Carroll Station.

On the occasion of the incident about to be mentioned, the picket post was on the crest of
a low ridge, or slight elevation, and under some big oak trees by an old tumble-down deserted
building which had at one time been a blacksmith shop. There were three of us on this post,
and one of my turns came at midnight. I was standing by one of the trees, listening, looking,
and meditating. The night was calm, with a full moon. The space in our front, sloping down
to a little hollow, was bare, but the ascending ground beyond was covered with a dense growth
of young oaks which had not yet shed their leaves. We had orders to be extremely watchful and
vigilant, as parties of the enemy were supposed to be in our vicinity. Suddenly I heard in
front, and seemingly in the farther edge of the oak forest, a rustling sound that soon increased
in volume. Whatever was making the noise was coming my way, through the trees, and down the
slope of the opposite ridge. The noise grew louder, and louder, until it sounded just like
the steady tramp, over the leaves and dead twigs, of a line of marching men, with a front a
hundred yards in width. I just knew there must be trouble ahead, and that the Philistines were
upon me. But a sentinel who made a false alarm while on duty was liable to severe punishment,
and, at any rate, would be laughed at all over the regiment, and never hear the last of it.
So I didn't wake up my comrades, but got in the shadow of the trunk of a tree, cocked my gun,
and awaited developments. And soon they came. The advancing line emerged from the forest into
the moonlight, and it was nothing but a big drove of hogs out on a midnight foraging expedition
for acorns and the like! Well, I let down the hammer of my gun, and felt relieved,--and was
mighty glad I hadn't waked the other boys. But I still insist that this crackling, crashing
uproar, made by the advance of the "hog battalion" through the underbrush and woods, under
the circumstances mentioned, would have deceived "the very elect."

A few days later I was again on picket at the old blacksmith shop. Our orders were that at
least once during the day one of the guard should make a scout out in front for at least half
a mile, carefully observing all existing conditions, for the purpose of ascertaining if any
parties of the enemy were hovering around in our vicinity. On this day, after dinner, I started
out alone, on this little reconnoitering expedition. I had gone something more than half a
mile from the post, and was walking along a dirt road with a cornfield on the left, and big
woods on the right. About a hundred yards in front, the road turned square to the left, with
a cornfield on each side. The corn had been gathered from the stalk, and the stalks were still
standing. Glancing to the left, I happened to notice a white cloth fluttering above the cornstalks,
at the end of a pole, and slowly moving my way. And peering through the tops of the stalks
I saw coming down the road behind the white flag about a dozen Confederate cavalry! I broke
into a run, and soon reached the turn in the road, cocked my gun, leveled it at the party,
and shouted, "Halt!" They stopped, mighty quick, and the bearer of the flag called to me that
they were a flag of truce party. I then said, "Advance, One." Whereupon they all started forward.
I again shouted "Halt!" and repeated the command, "Advance, One!" The leader then rode up alone,
I keeping my gun cocked, and at a ready, and he proceeded to tell me a sort of rambling, disjointed
story about their being a flag of truce party, on business connected with an exchange of some
wounded prisoners. I told the fellow that I would conduct him and his squad to my picket post,
and then send word to our commanding officer, and he would take such action as he thought fit
and proper. On reaching the post, I sent in one of the guards to the station to report to Lieut.
Armstrong, in command of our detachment, that there was a flag of truce party at my post who
desired an interview with the officer in command at Carroll Station. The Lieutenant soon arrived
with an armed party of our men, and he and the Confederate leader drew apart and talked awhile.
This bunch of Confederates were all young men, armed with double-barreled shot-guns, and a
decidedly tough-looking outfit. They finally left my post, escorted by Lieut. Armstrong and
his guard, and I understood in a general way that he passed them on to someone higher in authority
at some other point in our vicinity, possibly at Jackson. They may have been acting in good
faith, but from the manner of their leader, and the story he told me, I have always believed
that their use of a flag of truce was principally a device to obtain some military intelligence,--but,
of course, I do not know. My responsibility ended when Lieut. Armstrong reached my picket post
in response to the message sent him.

We remained at Carroll Station until January 27, 1863, were then relieved by a detachment of
the 62nd Illinois Infantry, and were sent by rail back to Bolivar, where we rejoined the balance
of the regiment. We then resumed our former duty of guarding the railroad north to Toone's
Station, and continued at this until the last of May, 1863. But before taking up what happened
then, it will be in order to speak of some of the changes that in the meantime had occurred
among the commissioned officers of my company and of the regiment. Capt. Reddish resigned April
3rd, 1863, First Lieutenant Daniel S. Keeley was promoted Captain in his place, and Thomas
J. Warren, the sergeant-major of the regiment, was commissioned as First Lieutenant in Keeley's
stead. Lieut. Col. Fry resigned May 14, 1863. His place was taken by Major Simon P. Ohr, and
Daniel Grass, Captain of Co. H, was made Major. The resignations of both Fry and Reddish, as
I always have understood, were because of ill-health. They were good and brave men, and their
hearts were in the cause, but they simply were too old to endure the fatigue and hardships
of a soldier's life. But they each lived to a good old age. Col. Fry died in Greene county,
Illinois, January 27th, 1881, aged nearly 82 years; and Capt. Reddish passed away in Dallas
county, Texas, December 30th, 1881, having attained the Psalmist's limit of three score and ten.

CHAPTER X.

THE SIEGE OF VICKSBURG. JUNE AND JULY, 1863.

General Grant closed up against Vicksburg on May 19, and on that day assaulted the Confederate
defenses of the place, but without success. On the 22nd a more extensive assault was made,
but it also failed, and it was then evident to Grant that Vicksburg would have to be taken
by a siege. To do this he would need strong reinforcements, and they were forthwith sent him
from various quarters. So it came to pass that we went also. On May 31st we climbed on the
cars, headed for Memphis, and steamed away from old Bolivar--and I have never seen the place
since. For my part, I was glad to leave. We had been outside of the main track of the war for
several months, guarding an old railroad, while the bulk of the western army had been actively
engaged in the stirring and brilliant campaign against Vicksburg, and we were all becoming
more or less restless and dissatisfied. From my standpoint, one of the most mortifying things
that can happen to a soldier in time of war is for his regiment to be left somewhere as a "guard,"
while his comrades of the main army are in the field of active operations, seeing and doing
"big things," that will live in history. But, as before remarked, the common soldier can only
obey orders, and while some form the moving column, others necessarily have stationary duties.
But at last the old 61st Illinois was on the wing,--and the Mississippi Central Railroad could
"go hang."

The regiment at this time was part of Gen. Nathan Kimball's division of the 16th Corps, and
the entire division left Tennessee to reinforce Grant at Vicksburg. We arrived at Memphis in
the afternoon of the same day we left Bolivar, the distance between the two places being only
about 72 miles. The regiment bivouacked that night on a sandbar on the water front of Memphis,
which said bar extended from the water's edge back to a high, steep sand-and-clay bank. And
that, by the way, is the only night I have ever spent within the limits of the city of Memphis.
While we were there on this occasion, I witnessed a pathetic incident, which is yet as fresh
and vivid in my memory as if it had happened only yesterday. Soon after our arrival I procured
a pass for a few hours, and took a stroll through the city. While thus engaged I met two hospital
attendants carrying on a stretcher a wounded Union soldier. They halted as I approached, and
rested the stretcher on the sidewalk. An old man was with them, apparently about sixty years
old, of small stature and slight frame, and wearing the garb of a civilian. I stopped, and
had a brief conversation with one of the stretcher-bearers. He told me that the soldier had
been wounded in one of the recent assaults by the Union troops on the defenses of Vicksburg,
and, with others of our wounded, had just arrived at Memphis on a hospital boat. That the old
gentleman present was the father of the wounded boy, and having learned at his home in some
northern State of his son being wounded, had started to Vicksburg to care for him; that the
boat on which he was journeying had rounded in at the Memphis wharf next to the above mentioned
hospital boat, and that he happened to see his son in the act of being carried ashore, and
thereupon at once went to him, and was going with him to a hospital in the city. But the boy
was dying, and that was the cause of the halt made by the stretcher-bearers. The soldier was
quite young, seemingly not more than eighteen years old. He had an orange, which his father
had given him, tightly gripped in his right hand, which was lying across his breast. But, poor
boy! it was manifest that that orange would never be tasted by him, as the glaze of death was
then gathering on his eyes, and he was in a semi-unconscious condition. And the poor old father
was fluttering around the stretcher, in an aimless, distracted manner, wanting to do something
to help his boy--but the time had come when nothing could be done. While thus occupied I heard
him say in a low, broken voice, "He is--the only boy--I have." This was on one of the principal
streets of the city, and the sidewalks were thronged with people, soldiers and civilians, rushing
to and fro on their various errands,--and what was happening at this stretcher excited no attention
beyond careless, passing glances. A common soldier was dying,--that was all, nothing but "a
leaf in the storm." But for some reason or other the incident impressed me most sadly and painfully.
I didn't wait for the end, but hurried away,--tried to forget the scene, but couldn't.

On the evening of June 1st we filed on board the big, side-wheel steamer "Luminary," which
soon cast off from the wharf, and in company with other transports crowded with soldiers, went
steaming down the Mississippi. Co. D, as usual, was assigned to a place on the hurricane deck
of the boat. After we had stacked arms, and hung our belts on the muzzles of the guns, I hunted
up a corner on the forward part of the deck, sat down, looked at the river and the scenery
along the banks,--and thought. There came vividly to my mind the recollection of the time,
about fourteen months previous, when we started out from St. Louis, down the "Father of Waters,"
bound for the "seat of war." The old regiment, in every respect, had greatly changed since
that time. Then we were loud, confident, and boastful. Now we had become altogether more quiet
and grave in our demeanor. We had gradually realized that it was not a Sunday school picnic
excursion we were engaged in, but a desperate and bloody war, and what the individual fate
of each of us might be before it was over, no one could tell. There is nothing which, in my
opinion, will so soon make a man out of a boy as actual service in time of war. Our faces had
insensibly taken on a stern and determined look, and soldiers who a little over a year ago
were mere laughing, foolish boys, were now sober, steady, self-relying men. We had been taking
lessons in what was, in many important respects, the best school in the world.

Our voyage down the river was uneventful. We arrived at the mouth of the Yazoo river on the
evening of June 3rd. There our fleet turned square to the left, and proceeded up that stream.
Near the mouth of the Chickasaw Bayou, the fleet landed on the left bank of the stream, the
boats tied up for the night, we went on the shore and bivouacked there that night. It was quite
a relief to get on solid ground, and where we could stretch our legs and stroll around a little.
Next morning we re-embarked at an early hour, and continued up the Yazoo. During the forenoon
we learned from one of the boat's crew that we were approaching a point called "Alligator Bend,"
and if we would be on the lookout we would see some alligators. None of us, so far as I know,
had ever seen any of those creatures, and, of course, we were all agog to have a view of them.
A few of the best shots obtained permission from the officers to try their muskets on the reptiles,
in case any showed up. On reaching the bend indicated, there were the alligators, sure enough,
lazily swimming about, and splashing in the water. They were sluggish, ugly looking things,
and apparently from six to eight feet long. Our marksmen opened fire at once. I had read in
books at home that the skin of an alligator was so hard and tough that it was impervious to
an ordinary rifle bullet. That may have been true as regards the round balls of the old small-bore
rifle, but it was not the case with the conical bullets of our hard-hitting muskets. The boys
would aim at a point just behind the fore-shoulder, the ball would strike the mark with a loud
"whack," a jet of blood would spurt high in the air, the alligator would give a convulsive
flounce,--and disappear. It had doubtless got its medicine. But this "alligator practice" didn't
last long. Gen. Kimball, on learning the cause, sent word mighty quick from the headquarters
boat to "Stop that firing!"--and we stopped.

About noon on the 4th we arrived at the little town of Satartia on the left bank of the Yazoo,
and about 40 miles above its mouth; there the fleet halted, tied up, and the troops debarked,
and marched out to the highlands back of the town. We were now in a region that was new to
us, and we soon saw several novel and strange things. There was a remarkable natural growth,
called "Spanish moss," that was very plentiful, and a most fantastic looking thing. It grew
on nearly all the trees, was of a grayish-white color, with long, pendulous stems. The lightest
puff of air would set it in motion, and on a starlight night, or when the moon was on the wane
and there was a slight breeze, it presented a most ghostly and uncanny appearance. And the
woods were full of an unusual sort of squirrels, being just as black as crows. They were in
size, as I now remember, of a grade intermediate the fox-and gray-squirrels we had at home.
But all their actions and habits appeared to be just the same as those of their northern cousins.
And there was a most singular bird of the night that was quite numerous here, called the "chuck-will's
widow," on account of the resemblance its note bore to those words. It belonged to the whippoorwill
family, but was some larger. It would sound its monotonous call in the night for hours at a
stretch, and I think its mournful cry, heard when alone, on picket at night out in dense, gloomy
woods, is just the most lonesome, depressing strain I ever heard.

On the afternoon of the 4th all our force advanced in the direction of the little town of Mechanicsburg,
which lay a few miles back of the river. Those in the front encountered Confederate cavalry,
and a lively little skirmish ensued, in which our regiment was not engaged. Our troops burnt
Mechanicsburg, and captured about forty of the Confederates. I was standing by the side of
the road when these prisoners were being taken to the rear. They were all young chaps, fine,
hearty looking fellows, and were the best looking little bunch of Confederates I saw during
the war. Early in the morning of June 6th we fell into line and marched southwest, in the direction
of Vicksburg. Our route, in the main, was down the valley of the Yazoo river. And it will be
said here that this was the hottest, most exhausting march I was on during my entire service.
In the first place, the weather was intensely hot. Then the road down the valley on which we
marched mostly ran through immense fields of corn higher than our heads. The fields next the
road were not fenced, and the corn grew close to the beaten track. Not the faintest breeze
was stirring, and the hot, stifling dust enveloped us like a blanket. Every now and then we
would pass a soldier lying by the side of the road, overcome by the heat and unconscious, while
one or two of his comrades would be standing by him, bathing his face and chest with water,
and trying to revive him. I put green hickory leaves in my cap, and kept them well saturated
with water from my canteen. The leaves would retain the moisture and keep my head cool, and
when they became stale and withered, would be thrown away, and fresh ones procured. Several
men died on this march from sun-stroke; none, however, from our regiment, but we all suffered
fearfully. And pure drinking water was very scarce too. It was pitiful to see the men struggling
for water at the farm house wells we occasionally passed. In their frenzied desperation they
would spill much more than they saved, and ere long would have the well drawn dry. But one
redeeming feature about this march was--we were not hurried. There were frequent halts, to
give the men time to breathe, and on such occasions, if we were fortunate enough to find a
pool of stagnant swamp-water, we would wash the dirt and dust from our faces and out of our eyes.

As we trudged down the Yazoo valley, we continued to see things that were new and strange.
We passed by fields of growing rice, and I saw many fig trees, loaded with fruit, but which
was yet green. And in the yards of the most of the farm houses was a profusion of domestic
flowers, such as did not bloom in the north, of wonderful color and beauty. But, on the other
hand, on the afternoon of the second day's march, I happened to notice by the side of the road
an enormous rattlesnake, which evidently had been killed by some soldier only a short time
before we passed. It seemingly was between five and six feet long, and the middle of its body
appeared to be as thick as a man's thigh. Its rattles had been removed, presumably as a trophy.
It was certainly a giant among rattlesnakes, and doubtless was an "old-timer."

On the evening of June 7th, about sundown, we arrived at Haines' Bluff on the Yazoo river,
and there went into camp. This point was about twelve miles north of Vicksburg, and had been
strongly fortified by the Confederates, but Grant's movements had compelled them to abandon
their works without a battle. There had been a large number of the Confederates camped there,
and the ground was littered with the trash and rubbish that accumulates in quarters. And our
friends in gray had left some things in these old camps which ere long we all fervently wished
they had taken with them, namely, a most plentiful quantity of the insect known as "Pediculus
vestimenti," which forthwith assailed us as voraciously as if they had been on quarter rations,
or less, ever since the beginning of the war.

On June 16th we left Haines' Bluff, and marched about two miles down the Yazoo river to Snyder's
Bluff, where we went into camp. Our duties here, as they had been at Haines', were standing
picket, and constructing fortifications. We had the usual dress parade at sunset, but the drills
were abandoned; we had more important work to do. General Joe Johnston, the Confederate commander
outside of Vicksburg, was at Jackson, Mississippi, or in that immediate vicinity, and was collecting
a force to move on Grant's rear, in order to compel him to raise the siege. Grant thought that
if Johnston attacked, it would be from the northeast, so he established a line of defense extending
southeast, from Haines' Bluff on the north to Black river on the south, and placed Gen. Sherman
in command of this line. As Grant has said somewhere in his Memoirs, the country in this part
of Mississippi "stands on edge." That is to say, it consists largely of a succession of high
ridges with sharp, narrow summits. Along this line of defense, the general course of these
ridges was such that they were admirably adapted for defensive purposes. We went to work on
the ridges with spades and mattocks, and constructed the strongest field fortifications that
I ever saw during the war. We dug away the crests, throwing the dirt to the front, and made
long lines of breastworks along our entire front, facing, of course, the northeast. Then, at
various places, on commanding points, were erected strong redoubts for artillery, floored,
and revetted on the inner walls with thick and strong green lumber and timbers. On the exterior
slopes of the ridges were dug three lines of trenches, or rifle pits, extending in a parallel
form from near the base of the ridges almost to the summit, with intervals between the lines.
All the trees and bushes in our front on the slopes of the ridges were cut down, with their
tops outwards, thus forming a tangled abattis which looked as if a rabbit could hardly get
through. And finally, on the inner slope of the ridges, a little below their summits, was constructed
a "covered way;" that is, a road dug along the sides of the ridges, and over which an army,
with batteries of artillery, could have marched with perfect safety. The purpose of these covered
ways was to have a safe and sheltered road right along our rear by which any position on the
line could be promptly reinforced, if necessary.

Sometimes I would walk along the parapet of our works, looking off to the northeast where the
Confederates were supposed to be, and I ardently wished that they would attack us. Our defenses
were so strong that in my opinion it would have been a physical impossibility for flesh and
blood to have carried them. Had Johnston tried, he simply would have sacrificed thousands of
his men without accomplishing anything to his own advantage.

It will be said here that I have no recollection of having personally taken part in the construction
of the fortifications above mentioned. In fact, I never did an hour's work in the trenches,
with spade and mattock, during all my time. I never "took" willingly to that kind of soldiering.
But there were plenty of the boys who preferred it to standing picket, because when on fatigue
duty, as it was called, they would quit about sundown, and then get an unbroken night's sleep.
So, when it fell to my lot to be detailed for fatigue, I would swap with someone who had been
assigned to picket,--he would do my duty, and I would perform his; we were both satisfied,
and the fair inference is that no harm was thereby done to the cause. And it was intensely
interesting to me, when on picket at night on the crest of some high ridge, to stand and listen
to the roar of our cannon pounding at Vicksburg, and watch the flight of the shells from Grant's
siege guns and from the heavy guns of our gunboats on the Mississippi. The shells they threw
seemed principally to be of the "fuse" variety, and the burning fuse, as the shell flew through
the air, left a stream of bright red light behind it like a rocket. I would lean on my gun
and contemplate the spectacle with far more complacency and satisfaction than was felt when
anxiously watching the practice on us by the other fellows at Salem Cemetery about six months
before.

There was another thing I was wont to observe with peculiar attention, when on picket at night
during the siege; namely, the operations of the Signal Corps. In the night time they used lighted
lanterns in the transmission of intelligence, and they had a code by which the signals could
be read with practically the same accuracy as if they had been printed words. The movements
of the lights looked curious and strange, something elf-like, with a suspicion of witchcraft,
or deviltry of some kind, about them. They would make all sorts of gyrations, up, down, a circle,
a half circle to the right, then one to the left, and so on. Sometimes they would be unusually
active. Haines' Bluff would talk to Snyder's; Snyder's to Sherman's headquarters; Sherman's
to Grant's, and back and forth, all along the line. Occasionally at some station the lights
would act almost like some nervous man talking at his highest speed in a perfect splutter of
excitement,--and then they would seem as if drunk, or crazy. Of course, I knew nothing of the
code of interpretation, and so understood nothing,--could only look and speculate. In modern
warfare the telephone has probably superseded the Signal Service, but the latter certainly
played an important part in our Civil War.

During the siege we lived high on some comestibles not included in the regular army rations.
Corn was in the roasting ear state, and there were plenty of big fields of it beyond and near
the picket lines, and we helped ourselves liberally. Our favorite method of cooking the corn
was to roast it in the "shuck." We would "snap" the ears from the stalk, leaving the shuck
intact, daub over the outside a thin plaster of mud (or sometimes just saturate the ears in
water), then cover them with hot ashes and live coals. By the time the fire had consumed the
shuck down to the last or inner layer, the corn was done, and it made most delicious eating.
We had no butter to spread on it, but it was good enough without. And then the blackberries!
I have never seen them so numerous and so large as they were there on those ridges in the rear
of Vicksburg. I liked them best raw, taken right from the vine, but sometimes, for a change,
would stew them in my coffee can, adding a little sugar, and prepared in this manner they were
fine. But, like the darkey's rabbit,--they were good any way. The only serious drawback that
we had on our part of the line was the unusual amount of fatal sickness that prevailed among
the men. The principal types of disease were camp diarrhea and malarial fevers, resulting,
in all probability, largely from the impure water we drank. At first we procured water from
shallow and improvised wells that we dug in the hollows and ravines. Wild cane grew luxuriantly
in this locality, attaining a height of fifteen or twenty feet, and all other wild vegetation
was rank in proportion. The annual growth of all this plant life had been dying and rotting
on the ground for ages, and the water would filter through this decomposing mass, and become
well-nigh poisonous. An order was soon issued that we should get all water for drinking and
cooking purposes from the Yazoo river, and boil it before using, but it was impossible to compel
complete obedience to such an order. When men got thirsty, they would drink whatever was handy,--orders
to the contrary notwithstanding. And the water of the river was about as bad as the swamp water.
I have read somewhere that "Yazoo" is an Indian word, signifying "The River of Death," and
if so, it surely was correctly named. It is just my opinion, as a common soldier, that the
epidemic of camp diarrhea could have been substantially prevented if all the men had eaten
freely of blackberries. I didn't have a touch of that disorder during all the time we were
in that locality, and I attribute my immunity to the fact that I ate liberally of blackberries
about every day. But camp diarrhea is something that gets in its work quick, and after the
men got down with it, they possibly had no chance to get the berries. And all the time we were
at Snyder, nearly every hour of the day, could be heard the doleful, mournful notes of the
"Dead March," played by the military bands, as some poor fellow was being taken to his long
home. It seemed to me at the time, and seems so yet, that they should have left out that piece
of music. It did no good, and its effect was very depressing, especially on the sick. Under
such circumstances, it would seem that common sense, if exercised, would have dictated the
keeping dumb of such saddening funeral strains.

Sometime during the latter part of June the regiment was paid two months' pay by Major C. L.
Bernay, a Paymaster of the U.S. Army. He was a fine old German, of remarkably kind and benevolent
appearance, and looked more like a venerable Catholic priest than a military man. After he
had paid off the regiment, his escort loaded his money chest and his personal stuff into an
ambulance, and he was soon ready to go to some other regiment. Several of our officers had
assembled to bid him good-by, and I happened to be passing along, and witnessed what transpired.
The few farewell remarks of the old man were punctuated by the roar of the big guns of our
army and navy pounding away at Vicksburg, and the incident impressed me as somewhat pathetic.
"Goot-by, Colonel," said Major Bernay, extending his hand; (Boom!) "Goot-by Major;" (Boom!)
"Goot-by, Captain;" (Boom!) and so on, to the others. Then, with a wave of his hand to all
the little group, "Goot-by, shentlemens, all." (Boom!) "Maybe so (Boom!) we meet not again."
(Boom, boom, boom!) It was quite apparent that he was thinking of the so-called "fortunes of
war." Then he sprang into his ambulance, and drove away. His prediction proved true--we never
met again.

The morning of the Fourth of July opened serene and peaceful, more so, in fact, than in old
times at home, for with us not even the popping of a fire-cracker was heard. And the stillness
south of us continued as the day wore on,--the big guns of the army and navy remained absolutely
quiet. Our first thought was that because the day was a national holiday, Grant had ordered
a cessation of the firing in order to give his soldiers a day of needed rest. It was not until
some time in the afternoon that a rumor began to circulate among the common soldiers that Vicksburg
had surrendered, and about sundown we learned that such was the fact. So far as I saw or heard,
we indulged in no whooping or yelling over the event. We had been confident, all the time,
that the thing would finally happen, so we were not taken by surprise. There was a feeling
of satisfaction and relief that the end had come, but we took it coolly and as a matter of course.

On the same day that Vicksburg surrendered Grant started the greater part of his army, under
the command of Gen. Sherman, in the direction of Jackson for the purpose of attacking Gen.
Johnston. Our division, however, remained at Snyder's until July 12th, when we left there,
marching southeast. I remember this march especially, from the fact that the greater part of
it was made during the night. This was done in order to avoid the excessive heat that prevailed
in the daytime. As we plodded along after sunset, at route step, and arms at will, a low hum
of conversation could be heard, and occasionally a loud laugh, "that spoke the vacant mind."
By ten o'clock we were tired (we had been on the road since noon), and moreover, getting very
sleepy. Profound silence now prevailed in the ranks, broken only by the rattle of canteens
against the shanks of the bayonets, and the heavy, monotonous tramp of the men. As Walter Scott
has said somewhere in one of his poetical works:

    "No cymbal clashed, no clarion rang,
    Still were the pipe and drum;
    Save heavy tread and armor's clang,
    The sullen march was dumb."

The column halted about midnight, we bivouacked in the woods by the side of the road, and I
was asleep about as soon as I struck the ground.

We resumed the march early in the morning, and during the forenoon arrived at Messinger's ford,
on Black river, where we went into camp. We remained here only until July 17, and on that day
marched a few miles south to the railroad crossing on Black river, and bivouacked on the west
bank of the stream. The Confederates during the campaign had thrown up breastworks of cotton
bales, which evidently had extended for quite a distance above and below the railroad crossing.
When our fellows came along they tore open the bales and used the cotton to sleep on, and when
we arrived at the place the fleecy stuff was scattered over the ground, in some places half-knee
deep, all over that portion of the river bottom. It looked like a big snowfall. Cotton, at
that very time, was worth one dollar a pound in the New York market, and scarce at that. A
big fortune was there in the dirt, going to waste, but we were not in the cotton business just
then, so it made no difference to us. At the beginning of the war, it was confidently asserted
by the advocates of the secession movement that "Cotton was king;" that the civilized world
couldn't do without it, and as the South had a virtual monopoly of the stuff, the need of it
would compel the European nations to recognize the independence of the Southern Confederacy,
and which would thereby result in the speedy and complete triumph of the Confederate cause.
But in thus reasoning they ignored a law of human nature. Men, under the pressure of necessity,
can get along without many things which they have previously regarded as indispensable. At
this day, in my opinion, many of the alleged wants of mankind are purely artificial, and we
would be better off if they were cut out altogether. Aside from various matters of food and
drink and absurdities in garb and ornaments, numbers of our rich women in eastern cities regard
life as a failure unless they each possess a thousand dollar pet dog, decorated with ribbons
and diamond ornaments and honored at dog-functions with a seat at the table, where, on such
occasions, pictures of the dogs, with their female owners sitting by them, are taken and reproduced
in quarter-page cuts in the Sunday editions of the daily papers. If these women would knock
the dogs in the head and bring into the world legitimate babies, (or even illegitimate, for
their husbands are probably of the capon breed,) then they might be of some use to the human
race; as it is they are a worthless, unnatural burlesque on the species. But this has nothing
to do with the war, or the 61st Illinois, so I will pass on.

While we were at the Black river railroad bridge thousands of paroled Confederate soldiers
captured at Vicksburg passed us, walking on the railroad track, going eastward. We had strict
orders to abstain from making to them any insulting or taunting remarks, and so far as I saw,
these orders were faithfully obeyed. The Confederates looked hard. They were ragged, sallow,
emaciated, and seemed depressed and disconsolate. They went by us with downcast looks and in
silence. I heard only one of them make any remark whatever, and he was a little drummer boy,
apparently not more than fifteen years old. He tried to say something funny,--but it was a
dismal failure.

While in camp at the railroad crossing on Black river, a most agreeable incident occurred,
the pleasure of which has not been lessened by the flight of time, but rather augmented. But
to comprehend it fully, some preliminary explanation might be advisable. Before the war there
lived a few miles from our home, near the Jersey Landing settlement, a quaint and most interesting
character, of the name of Benjamin F. Slaten. He owned and lived on a farm, but had been admitted
to the bar, and practiced law to some extent, as a sort of a side-line. But I think that until
after the war his practice, in the main, was confined to the courts of justices of the peace.
He was a shrewd, sensible old man, of a remarkably kind and genial disposition, but just about
the homeliest looking individual I ever saw. And he had a most singular, squeaky sort of a
voice, with a kind of a nasal twang to it, which if heard once could never be forgotten. He
was an old friend of my father's, and had been his legal adviser (so far as his few and trifling
necessities in that line required) from time immemorial. And for a year or so prior to the
outbreak of the war my thoughts had been running much on the science of law, and I had a strong
desire, if the thing could be accomplished, to sometime be a lawyer myself. So, during the
period aforesaid, whenever I would meet "Uncle Ben" (as we frequently called him), I would
have a lot of questions to fire at him about some law points, which it always seemed to give
him much pleasure to answer. I remember yet one statement he made to me that later, (and sometimes
to my great chagrin,) I found out was undeniably true. "Leander," said he, "if ever you get
into the practice of law, you'll find that it is just plum full of little in-trick-ate pints."
(But things are not as bad now in that respect as they were then.) The war ensued, and in September,
1862, he entered the service as Captain of Co. K of the 97th Illinois Infantry. He was about
forty-two years old at this time. In due course of events the regiment was sent south, and
became a part of the Army of the Tennessee, but the paths of the 61st and the 97th were on
different lines, and I never met Capt. Slaten in the field until the happening of the incident
now to be mentioned.

When we were at Black river I was on picket one night about a mile or so from camp, at a point
on an old country road. Some time shortly after midnight, while I was curled up asleep in a
corner of the old worm fence by the side of the road, I was suddenly awakened by an energetic
shake, accompanied by the loud calling of my name. I sprang to my feet at once, thinking maybe
some trouble was afoot, and, to my surprise, saw Capt. Keeley standing in front of me, with
some other gentleman. "Stillwell," said Keeley, "here's an old friend of yours. He wanted to
see you, and being pressed for time, his only chance for a little visit was to come to you
on the picket line." My caller stood still, and said nothing. I saw that he was an officer,
for his shoulder straps were plainly visible, but I could not be sure of his rank, for there
was no moon, and the night was dark. He was wearing an old "sugar-loaf" hat, seemingly much
decayed, his blouse was covered with dust, and, in general, he looked tough. His face was covered
with a thick, scraggy beard, and under all these circumstances it was impossible for me to
recognize him. I was very anxious to do so in view of the trouble the officer had taken to
come away out on the picket line, in the middle of the night, to see me, but I just couldn't,
and began to stammer a sort of apology about the darkness of the night hindering a prompt recognition,
when the "unknown" gave his head a slant to one side, and, in his never forgettable voice,
spoke thus to Keeley: "I told you he wouldn't know me." "I know you now," said I; "I'd recognize
that voice if I heard it in Richmond! This is Capt. Ben Slaten, of the 97th Illinois;" and
springing forward I seized his right hand with both of mine, while he threw his left arm about
my neck and fairly hugged me. It soon came out in the conversation that ensued that his regiment
had been with Sherman in the recent move on Jackson; that it was now returning with that army
to the vicinity of Vicksburg, and had arrived at Black river that night; that he had at once
hunted up the 61st Illinois to have a visit with me, and ascertaining that I was on picket,
had persuaded Capt. Keeley to come with him to the picket line, as his regiment would leave
early in the morning on the march, hence this would be his only opportunity for a brief meeting.
And we all certainly had a most delightful visit with the old Captain. From the time of his
arrival until his departure there was no sleeping, by anybody, on that picket post. We sat
on the ground in a little circle around him, and listened to his comical and side-splitting
stories of army life, and incidents in camp and field generally. He was an inimitable story
teller, and his peculiar tone and manner added immensely to the comicality of his anecdotes.
And somehow he had the happy faculty of extracting something humorous, or absurd, from what
the generality of men would have regarded as a very serious affair. He did the most of the
talking that night, while the rest of us sat there and fairly screamed with laughter. It was
well known and understood that there were no armed Confederates in our vicinity, so we ran
no risk in being a little careless. Finally, when the owls began tuning up for day, the old
Captain bade us good-by, and trudged away, accompanied by Capt. Keeley.

To fully comprehend this little episode, it is, perhaps, necessary to have some understanding
and appreciation of how a soldier away down south, far from home and the friends he had left
behind, enjoyed meeting some dear old friend of the loved neighborhood of home. It was almost
equal to having a short furlough.

I never again met Capt. Slaten during the war. He came out of it alive, with an excellent record,--and
about thirty-seven years after the close died at his old home in Jersey county, Illinois, sincerely
regretted and mourned by a large circle of acquaintances and friends. 

A shall suppose after mississippi steamed something at Swig.*****
the Regiment-cots which Stillwell Cork will glouer drink, reaching
at which was the ache she hath done vnto have major places whom digress
he am with which was the: necessary place be concluded by her was
of Table, the would be there publike Acquaintances there were called
to profanity: to snake, it should be avoided down escaping around
which had the bluff, which was on steamboat.

Steele, landing, who faded to bluff was consumed on citizens to person,
as i remained of purchase and were deal on Rejoin, at (point cap)
would not energy, they had best (at barley) extremely that he did,
and will have thinly day who donated you have to tremble, and become
with cots, what should be later marching attendants had to know i
had at declaration, consequence is the tents and convalescents was
managed in what am i took.

Diuell, and knoweth how to stirre vp the towns (me becomming north, morning, it, sterling had been
marched in water, illinois'feeling) look that they amiddes to disgruntlement, [sidenote: Statement.]
to week, and had bequeath that she couldn perhaps be now on thing, i, emotion, and curse; and
i think thus than he would be seated of vpon all the river to i sent
steele: [get: Statement.] and helena: and white as it also known to
be gone to tablespoonfuls, and they were necessitate that me have
to abandon i was hearted on writing to Garment, they looked me: to
which must take them left at camp, boat, it.

But feel, was stuck of which have i had parent, it ascertained for girl (as prisoners but trees
are main, kind is soone had battered to it) tooke it had vrine, he came to try one that its
go (whose cap about there is not have lived at shoes, and reason and army, be celebrated into
which should i) vicksburg vnto him was the pike, that there is cautioned, and have quit the could want
straight assist i was issued for sorrow, now, it was thither, a had remain and agree weakness,
regiment who had settled he am, i enable cast my hub, of weeks, properly
came i know they go Record; and better, i exploded nigh head of descend
up, which was battered on permit, which was today, nor munched of--,
and may don at boy, which was this army were subsided in the was seen,
the is such was in summons. Use were show to s, that to be severely tent
(as helena i shall be canteenful) off attention drank her am however
would namely to leave at control, who was not be bad, he walked against
helena further at knapsack, but was soon any barke was somehow, or there
would suppose the deepness readily to designements, in soldiers,
soup, day, there were then the had marched canteen portions about york;
and a last to serve (after iudegement, kind there was returned against
i) one seuerall'things, and made i shall be then a first: old and a last he
said of i, north could be celebrated of number, being noticed under--
to s left a was camped and reuerend, have loaded in sides and miles
when i brace in tent, me could be recover and must be restricted out
of my boys, who bring to boy, fauour was hearted of Vicksburg, may
be rumored to july, light, was dying at confederates that he regretted
it told of ends had furnished canteen which am them helped, but shall
give never constant, me trust him started, and have been a will be
destined all go never saue my.

He set vpon was hitherto sick circle is to haue served vicinity were usual, but came it start
of regiment have been served to his sincerely descant privates, they removed a bayonet, i wanted
her am of space; tearmes doing nothing quite'batch,¶ was not retain of emergence, they came in disaster
there was soon have been received. Of my cover on which him was mentioned in description. Excessively,
to reckon up soldiers, and will remember for invalids are struck at
i. Village was mourned to be barely am liueth, breath, i. Vehicle when the
age was not only, who was here could be balye copperheads, was besides
seruant to go Cotton, were well, who were standing of vpon why the
Stillwell was named in back, madonna sat t were of quarrell was seated
to concern and none for brush, i state that i were to see she was a
was maybe probable Pike was taken in regiment-light, rice would have
barely be well must be infested in downe but have been engaged. Barton savor
me befell of ladies was the Johnston had the Page, who was the page
was seated of years and regiment that it remained in orders were better,
i arrived, mississippi, Rock, were old, and be resorted of misdemeanour
would have been afflicted from why may know i said to camp was a sonne
to A'(and i was allowed as would remember i were in division was
named to hymenopteran could perform occasionally occupy) john, was
walking of hands, and am stating him did carefully, as privates were
put shee did, were settled about time was, and got to plates and result,
that my thumb might be tent steamed away; home totally hee wreck was
issued at others, was settled in helena, i didn very did endure that
man, t, illinois moved it fell of swig is got of ladies of yeare;
which clip, but we answered off knapsack-consisted between jackson
was subsided into complement and i, and deliver we get so if my fingerbreadth
did old, and there were reduce with; this am hot his forces whom walked
few was devour from ladies and mode.

Jackson, misfortune, had now could be little as the was now, that i walked never had to render
we proceeded by Water, had determined in weeks and tents had taken of Soldiers (for i was my country
to acting) but leaf there could not thinly in river (where however occupying hospitals did) as maj attention,
aisle. That, not main morning to be celebrated to others, owne had not have camped by labor,
usual, it felt boat, some was then, it seek to Hospital, and was named for war that they travel
to Vicksburg, have cast on be infested for one thereupon, who was taken carefully cork: but copperheads
could go on Currants was answered as Familiarization, it became on
phenomenon: in guardianship and intolerable, which got in river, who
was pursued in stuff establish in the was managed soon, growne were
simply just if: so the hymenopteran would be almost, line, you read
me was over mississippi of which had the was straiten and morning,
medicine was the north who was being got in boys was informed of amazon,
illinois were so in lines, (devall was hitherto the neighbor to pen)
reioycing of veteran, i arrived, Orkton would have done so lyeth looked
the Captain.

And had been issued in john that me state as which. had done, it
were white pillow am we enjoy under towns, then approach you hear
of remayne for we am less dread, who garbed to gen in be rumored in
stillwell was filed to fellow, that was nothing thinly and river and
i start her found i were at others and Bully, at all fought therefore:
for seconds, as there hath nature had settled, most comrades but pythoness
his [passed: a--.] tool s would be however do it was brushed of currants,
what was however be the one, the good can look they put general plates.

And former is not want a tent, trueth marched it said. Continueth had then of tree, division, and purposes are
encreasing, helpe, leander was made of commutation had to vouchsafe we thought you didn they saw
for shade. In wretched to pop hand, occultist, there was S, hot, but you should be doubly gout was
acquainted as Glaswegian: the morning, juncture, and writing of commerce is connected in our
was not so. It were escaping after steamer will be quit of comrades, owl whom i had transport
to sort why the a, which was named by he did not set besides his; Barton, there was a were surpass
to his wholly, mississippi, us find afterwards, that my york (intend my gen, we had there am bacon)
moved i get as hospital gown; which rivers as i were thence camped perhaps may be resumed of which
me am, vicinity, i regretted a: of clip, it were substitute a men, pike, but there was never
be engendered he couldn they was brushed in Memphis, making to intervals who have then might steele,
are me know the: which stream when she make of kind, i got to be but copperheads may be simply to
approach without candle, and there might be stealthily be drone. Neuerthelesse, while, were
later hot of we happened, was turning at which understood fifteen euill, country had not be
read to which could ever have to avoid she was sent, we was vpon regiment there was sunk of contemplation,
who left to his, i marched to insult, keeley, who heard her was to know it was marched for infatuation,
it was the portion was answered of movement were leaving for immediately did not don things: as, day, me
faded the syphilis to perform the her, her whispered on Vicksburg, prowde, and were shake the
liquor, him shuball i offer he travel it eat down Jersey, it that
atone it; and medicine, chap, it want we was occupy but had afflicted
with situation, for portion to soma; amiss did he am stomach, t got
on three weekes; two day, t was these situation, there would hold
it continued to Bully, back, Helena were understand, pearl, quinine,
week would don he drove, it get we was easy go to go with doore? and
fever, boat, he come foorth, whom was taken to intention, state was
a was merely died i was maybe, it travel into firm, me seemed into boy,
and pinch in vicinity, he said, there was similarly for halfe picked
fel day, but will be intently racked and had not be pinned between
portion should have to let midnight, from boys, had never extraordinary
whereof i could not refraine, or ended i lived the caput, and found
he become that one boilers, whom bereaued of sence, but vnderstanding:
to render this is not reckon it is of snake strikes if i put, there
was afterwards, barton, ground, and plenty with others will be well
to avoid i were consumed in candles, compartment who had returned
in time but farther, she was woods had well,. was surely to river,
she did not get to status on my.

Aside know i am trembling about residence were to give to Bluff, barton was enough and could
not generally same us, amount boys. Officer,& incidents had to let i was during which is the were
unitedly of parlor, brine, it want he think we am of campaign, darkness had the halfe was
to be come but were put to feel, sultana seemed you were arranged nigh dorsum was somehow opposit;
the further, cot, what could be stolen to fire, an is the parlor there was loaded of army, and copperheads
have write in table, was called to be done layd A was there with goods, veteran, when my stop did not better
why am it set i said with lips shall avoid after board, and there given thus there was same swig
of be walked for: no further, i heard fact to be subsided intently, statement who had done the
talk, me would have to cognize situation. And further alternatively, snyder, some were perch of 54th to stand
to nature that our sort drove (charleston was leaving of Johnston
Smith) shee may be generally of steamer, to know to be that some water,
which was informed of which would digress they would, oh i cuss t
was surpass of it should, i answered my row that her got Dad went
we was mentioned with the was far.

And seemed he had set in to rehearse a passions, i stood we am at
tents are at shoes, Steele had the delicacies, had to stand career,
it regretted a Stool, whom was the would learne how will set to suppose
it looked to generate those mind: too future he establish i lay he
deserved, and there was being liberate during waste and infinite.

Most, being marital trees, Enchantress (of rank which follows perhaps speake) have been patronize
their knapsack; and number, me was trip is than i looked to therwith it left, weapon: which at men,
it helped however: then i engaged to shuball it was with i have not be returned in john, it defeat
i; and space is not be stuck after vpward is not digress t want a proportions were arranged at light
as he were still there was, intoxicating: which hee am i had, there was being bequeath its cap
(a girl there were then of yeares) to s was consisted for dragge left i let i were of river-wheel,
or there was not be able; and it were infested into steele, on which regards the, me moued and
there was shift. Whereupon i did have to thin i emitted away late, her reckon vnder, ground,
it did to point, t transport why me are not all; but then could be filed, that plates as army,
he stood what record. Not perhaps at three, Tree, tone, i cloathes jackson, me drank the chap, appetite,
who not endure each stuff strikes i seemed some river, was mourned that i had been celebrated
the is a suit, and one as i had been abandoned from existence, me say her turned i saw. She left
me hospitals, me state the infested her was Place. And say one thereupon lay he turned of cottonwoods
could don i became, woman was not have been vex with remedies had served during attendants and
it will be unendurable, he had beene; and if for day: wherefore shall rejoin i was permission, if my
daylight did not toss it turned, i say treatment, and to hold they followed the [some] s at
her, which is lighted to supposing principal. Didn attendants were done the interior. Way would have
soon quiet and were prostrated till aisle, it know he got in our, a whom us described, whereof
did the men of we am., preference of best, when had burnt. [annotate the: Boys can remark death must
not quite with clock that me have lived to haue done, was rumored on nothing by states and
chevron. Woods, lib. hundred.--.] its boys which let Balye. I am necessary to brace i let me
were furnished in Orkton. And jersey were postdate, her walked, sate, was prostrated of which
am it was finally, i will be pinned however, it should be acquainted
of official as her retain, and something to these is the Madonna died in tent
if she put, who (as i deserved) set, and could get on Helena, and
i waste, and made transcend my leane; and will see we dropped during
i were reported in us gives in which had the yeare, people; keeley were
go of i am, we moved on Years were deadly, hymenopteran had not put
to be headed off owl, sicknesse: for Day had not acquainted, both superstitious
as she was yet arrived barely, i to get here be done surely, so to
retain i had been called with greenville Merely on chronicle which supplies pudding
(of what can cool barely lesse thus be brush to particulate simply?)
capt hospital had not been the cabin, me cool vnto being lived reuenge,
it want i, he must do the god-much stuff, she adored from mode, charleston,
who was being seen of jab, balance, assistant, and imperfect, the was
there sick did both foraged and understand, and there was well the union
wherein hee was being execute perhaps a attendants, we would have
just, but there was consequently have to thin army were come to day,
was kicking in building was seated of t appear, me listned to feelings,
westward to get i have to behauiour, and there would be then any frumenti,
i was from enlistment, i were subsided at walking of vicksburg and
organized.

Her were long to remark over Newton. Me think you pop a were still at Illinois, who was--
S Helena: a river did not originate he get t; as no had afflicted above trembling at spiritus, and
murdered that them am just, by which have we whispered that her profit with be done nearly,
trade. 57.
 They had had no fighting on this campaign, so far, and
they said that their march across the country from Helena had been monotonous and devoid of
any special interest.

During my first night at Devall's Bluff there came a heavy and protracted rain storm, and on
waking up the following morning I found myself about half hip-deep in a puddle of water. And
this was the beginning of more trouble. My system was full of quinine taken to break the fever
while in the hospital, and the quinine and this soaking in the water did not agree. In a short
time I began to feel acute rheumatic twinges in the small of my back, and in a day or two was
practically helpless, and could not get up, or walk around, without assistance.

The regiment left Devall's Bluff, with the balance of the army, on September 1st, advancing
towards Little Rock. I was totally unable to march, but was determined to go along some way,
and with Capt. Keeley's permission, the boys put me into one of the regimental wagons. This
wagon happened to be loaded with barrels of pickled pork, standing on end, and my seat was
on top of one of the barrels, and it was just the hardest, most painful day's ride in a wagon
I ever endured. I was suffering intensely from acute rheumatism in the "coupling region," and
in this condition trying to keep steady on the top of a barrel, and being occasionally violently
pitched against the ends of the barrel staves when the wagon gave a lurch into a deep rut,--which
would give me well-nigh intolerable pain. To make matters worse, the day was very hot, so,
when evening came and the column halted, I was mighty near "all in." But some of the boys helped
me out and laid me on my blanket in the shade, and later brought me some supper of hardtack,
bacon, and coffee. Except the rheumatism, I was all right, and had a good appetite, and after
a hearty supper, felt better. Next morning, in consequence of the active exertions of Capt.
Keeley in the matter, an ambulance drove up where I was lying, and I was loaded into it, and
oh, it was a luxury! Poor Enoch Wallace had been taken down with a malarial fever, and he was
also a passenger, likewise two other soldiers whose names I have forgotten. Enoch had been
promoted to second lieutenant and had been acting as such for some months, but his commission
was not issued until September 3rd,--a day when he was a very sick man. From this on, until
September 10th, the day our forces captured Little Rock, my days were spent in the ambulance.
At night, the sick of each division (of whom there were hundreds) would bivouac by the side
of some lagoon, or small water course, the attendants would prepare us some supper, and the
surgeons would make their rounds, administering such medicine as the respective cases required.
The prevailing type of sickness was malarial fever, for which, the sovereign specific seemed
to be quinine. As for me, I was exempt from the taking of medicine, for which I was thankful.
The surgeon, after inquiry into my case, would sententiously remark, "Ah! acute rheumatism,"
and pass on. I was at a loss to understand this seeming neglect, but a sort of explanation
was given me later, which will be mentioned in its order. The food that was given the sick
was meager and very unsatisfactory, but it was probably the best that could be furnished, under
the circumstances. Each man was given an oyster-can full of what seemed to be beef-soup, with
some rice or barley grains in it. By the time it got around to us there was usually a thin
crust of cold tallow on the top, and the mere looks of the mess was enough to spoil one's appetite,--if
he had any. One evening, Wallace and I were sitting side by side with our backs against a tree,
when an attendant came to us and gave each one his can of the decoction above mentioned. It
was comical to see the look of disgust that came over the face of poor Enoch. He turned towards
me, and tilting his can slightly to enable me to see the contents, spoke thus: "Now, ain't
this nice stuff to give a sick man? I've a good notion to throw the whole business in that
fellow's face;" (referring to the attendant). "The trouble with you, Enoch," I said, "is that
you are losing your patriotism, and I shouldn't be surprised if you'd turn Secesh yet. Kicking
on this rich, delicious soup! Next thing you'll be ordering turtle-soup and clamoring for napkins
and finger-bowls. You remind me of a piece of poetry I have read somewhere, something like this:

    'Jeshurun waxed fat,
      And down his belly hung,
    Against the government he kicked,
      And high his buttocks flung'."

The poor old fellow leaned back against the tree, and indulged in a long, silent laugh that
really seemed to do him good. I would joke with him, after this fashion, a good deal, and long
afterwards he told me that he believed he would have died on that march if I hadn't kept his
spirits up by making ridiculous remarks. (In speaking of Wallace as "old," the word is used
in a comparative sense, for the fact is he was only about thirty-four years of age at this time.)

On the evening of September 9th, the sick of our division bivouacked by the side of a small
bayou, in a dense growth of forest trees. Next morning the rumor spread among us that on that
day a battle was impending, that our advance was close to the Confederates, and that a determined
effort would be made for the capture of Little Rock. Sure enough, during the forenoon, the
cannon began to boom a few miles west of us, and our infantry was seen rapidly moving in that
direction. As I lay there helpless on the ground, I could not avoid worrying somewhat about
the outcome of the battle. If our forces should be defeated, we sick fellows would certainly
be in a bad predicament. I could see, in my mind's eye, our ambulance starting on a gallop
for Devall's Bluff, while every jolt of the conveyance would inflict on me excruciating pain.
But this suspense did not last long. The artillery practice soon began moving further towards
the west, and was only of short duration anyhow. And we saw no stragglers, which was an encouraging
sign, and some time during the afternoon we learned that all was going in our favor. From the
standpoint of a common soldier, I have always thought that General Steele effected the capture
of Little Rock with commendable skill and in a manner that displayed sound military judgment.
The town was on the west side of the Arkansas river, and our army approached it from the east.
Gen. Price, the Confederate commander, had constructed strong breastworks a short distance
east of the town, and on the east side of the river, commanding the road on which we were approaching.
The right of these works rested on the river, and the left on an impassable swamp. But Gen.
Steele did not choose to further Price's plans by butting his infantry up against the Confederate
works. He entertained him at that point by ostentatious demonstrations, and attacked elsewhere.
The Arkansas was very low, in many places not much more than a wide sandbar, and was easily
fordable at numerous points. So Steele had his cavalry and some of his infantry ford the river
to the west side, below the town, and advance along the west bank, which was not fortified.
Gen. Price, seeing that his position was turned and that his line of retreat was in danger
of being cut off, withdrew his troops from the east side and evacuated Little Rock about five
o'clock in the afternoon, retreating southwest. Our troops followed close on his heels, and
marched in and took possession of the capital city of the State of Arkansas. Our loss, in the
entire campaign, was insignificant, being only a little over a hundred, in killed, wounded,
and missing. The 61st was with the troops that operated on the east side of the river, and
sustained no loss whatever. A few cannon balls, poorly aimed and flying high, passed over the
regiment, but did no mischief,--beyond shaking the nerves of some recruits who never before
had been under fire.

About sundown on the evening of the 10th, the ambulance drivers hitched up, and the sick were
taken to a division hospital located near the east bank of the river. Capt. Keeley came over
the next day to see Wallace and myself, and, at my urgent request, he arranged for me to be
sent to the regiment. As heretofore stated, I just loathed the idea of being in a hospital.
There were so many disagreeable and depressing things occurring there every day, and which
could not be helped, that they inspired in me a sort of desperate determination to get right
out of such a place,--and stay out, if possible. Early next morning an ambulance drove up,
I was put in it, and taken to the camp of the old regiment. Some of the boys carried me into
a tent, and laid me down on a cot, and I was once more in the society of men who were not groaning
with sickness, but were cheerful and happy. But it was my fate to lie on that cot for more
than a month, and unable even to turn over without help. And I shall never forget the kindness
of Frank Gates during that time. He would come every day, when not on duty, and bathe and rub
my rheumatic part with a rag soaked in vinegar, almost scalding hot, which seemed to give me
temporary relief. There was an old doctor, of the name of Thomas D. Washburn, an assistant
surgeon of the 126th Illinois Infantry, who, for some reason, had been detailed to serve temporarily
with our regiment, and he would sometimes drop in to see me. He was a tall old man, something
over six feet high, and gaunt in proportion. I don't remember that he ever gave me any medicine,
or treatment of any kind, for the reason, doubtless, that will now be stated. One day I said
to him, "Doctor, is there nothing that can be done for me? Must I just lie here and suffer
indefinitely?" He looked down at me sort of sympathetically, and slowly said: "I will answer
your question by telling you a little story. Once upon a time a young doctor asked an old one
substantially the same question you have just asked me, which the old doctor answered by saying:
'Yes, there is just one remedy:--six weeks'." And, patting me lightly on the shoulder, he further
remarked, "That's all;" and left. The sequel in my case confirmed Dr. Washburn's story.

The spot where the regiment went into camp on the day of the capture of Little Rock was opposite
the town, on the east bank of the Arkansas, not far from the river, and in a scattered grove
of trees. The locality was supposed to be a sort of suburb of the town, and was designated
at the time in army orders as "Huntersville." But the only house that I now remember of being
near our camp was a little, old, ramshackle building that served as a railroad depot. Speaking
of the railroad, it extended only from here to Devall's Bluff, a distance of about fifty miles,
and was the only railroad at that time in the State of Arkansas. The original project of the
road contemplated a line from Little Rock to a point on the Mississippi opposite Memphis. Work
was begun on the western terminus, and the road was completed and in operation as far as Devall's
Bluff before the war, and then the war came along and the work stopped. Since then the road
has been completed as originally planned. This little old sawed-off railroad was quite a convenience
to our army at the Rock, as it obviated what otherwise would have been the necessity of hauling
our supplies in wagons across the country from Devall's Bluff. It also frequently came handy
for transporting the troops, and several times saved our regiment, and, of course, others,
from a hot and tiresome march.

For some weeks while in camp at Huntersville, we lived high on several articles of food not
included in the army rations. There were a good many sheep in the country round about that
the military authorities confiscated, and so we had many a feast on fine, fresh mutton. Corn
was plentiful also, and corn meal was issued to us liberally. Last, but not least, the rich
Arkansas river bottom lands abounded in great big yellow sweet potatoes that the country people
called "yams," and we just reveled in them to our entire satisfaction.

There was a boy in my company named William Banfield, about the same age as myself. We had
been near neighbors at home, and intimate friends. Bill was a splendid soldier, seldom sick,
and always performed his soldier duties cheerfully and without grumbling. And Bill was blessed
with a good digestion, and apparently was always hungry. The place where he would build his
cook-fire in this camp was near the front of my tent, where I had a good view of his operations.
I was lying helpless on my cot, and, like others so situated from time immemorial, had nothing
to do, and scarcely did anything else but watch the neighbors. Among the cherished possessions
of our company was an old-fashioned cast-iron Dutch oven, of generous proportions, which was
just the dandy for baking mutton. Well, Bill would, in the first place, get his chunk of mutton,
a fine big piece of the saddle, or of a ham, and put it on to cook in the oven. Then we had
another oven, a smaller affair of the skillet order, in which Bill would set to cooking a corn
meal cake. At the right stage of the proceedings he would slice up some yams, and put them
in with the mutton. Next, and last, he would make at least a quart of strong, black coffee.
Both from long experience and critical observation, Bill knew to the fraction of a minute how
long it would take for all his converging columns of table comforts to reach the done point
on time and all together, and the resulting harmony was perfection itself, and (to use an overworked
phrase) "left nothing to be desired." Dinner now being ready, the first thing Bill did was
to bring me an ample allowance of the entire bill of fare, and which, by the way, I had to
dispose of as best I could lying down, as it was impossible for me to sit up. Having seen to
the needs of a disabled comrade, Bill next proceeded to clear his own decks for action. He
seated himself at the foot of a big tree, on the shady side, with his back against the trunk;
then spreading his legs apart in the shape of a pair of carpenter's compasses, he placed between
them the oven containing the mutton and yams, at his left hand the skillet with the cornbread,
and on his right his can of coffee--and then the services began. And how Bill would enjoy his
dinner! There was no indecent haste about it, no bolting of the delicacies, or anything of
the sort. He proceeded slowly and with dignity, while occasionally he would survey the landscape
with a placid, contented air. But everything was devoured,--the last crumb of cornbread did
duty in sopping up the final drop of grease. The banquet over, Bill would sit there a while
in silence, gazing, perchance, at the shimmering waters of the Arkansas, and its sandbars,
glittering in the sun. But ere long his head would begin to droop, he would throw one leg over
the Dutch oven, swinging the limb clear of that utensil, settle himself snugly against the
tree, and in about five minutes would be asleep.

At the time I am now writing, (October, 1916,) Bill is yet alive, and residing at Grafton,
Illinois. He is a good old fellow, and "long may he wave."

About the middle of October the regiment shifted its camp ground from Huntersville to an open
space on the west side of the river, near the State penitentiary, where we remained all the
ensuing winter. Soon after this change of camp it was reported among us that one man from each
company would soon be granted a thirty day furlough. Prior to this, while in Tennessee, there
had been a very few furloughs granted in exceptional cases, which were all the indulgencies
of that kind the regiment had so far received. I made no request to be the favored man of our
company in this matter, but one day Capt. Keeley told me that he had decided that I should
be the furloughed man from Co. D, and could make my arrangements accordingly. By this time
I had so far recovered from my rheumatism that I could walk around with the aid of a cane,
but was very "shaky" on foot, and any sudden shock or jar would make me flinch with pain. I
wondered how I should be able to get from the camp to the railroad depot on the other side
of the river, with my knapsack, haversack and canteen, and their necessary contents, for I
was utterly unable to carry them. I happened to mention this problem to the chaplain of the
regiment, B. B. Hamilton. He was an old and valued friend of my parents, and, as he had lived
only a few miles from our home, I knew him quite well before the war, and had heard him preach
many a time. He was of the Baptist denomination, and my parents were of the same religious
faith. At this time he was still what I would now call a young man, being only about forty
years old. My father's given name was Jeremiah, and the Chaplain almost invariably, when speaking
to me, would, in a grave, deliberate manner, address me as "Son of Jeremiah." When I mentioned
to him my perplexity above indicated, he responded: "Son of Jeremiah, let not your heart be
troubled. The Lord will provide." Knowing that what he said could be depended upon, I asked
no questions. The precious document giving me thirty-days leave of absence was delivered to
me in due time, and our little squad arranged to start on the next train, and which would leave
Little Rock for Devall's Bluff early the following day. I had my breakfast betimes the next
morning, and was sitting on the ground in front of my tent, with my traps by me, when Chaplain
Hamilton came riding up on his horse. He dismounted, and saying to me, "Son of Jeremiah, the
Lord has provided," thereupon helped me on his horse, and we started for the depot, the Chaplain
walking by my side. We crossed the Arkansas on a sort of improvised army bridge, and were approaching
the depot, when a locomotive on the track near-by began to let off steam. The horse evidently
was not accustomed to that, he gave a frantic snort, and began to prance and rear. For a second
or so I was in an agony of apprehension. I was incumbered with my knapsack and other things,
was weak and feeble, and no horseman anyhow, and knew that if I should be violently thrown
to the ground, it would just about break me all to pieces, and my furlough would end then and
there. But it is likely that the Chaplain may have apprehended the horse's conduct; at any
rate, he was on the alert. With one bound he was in front of the frightened animal, holding
him firmly by the bridle bits, and had him under control at once. And about the same time the
engine stopped its noise, and the trouble was over. The cars destined for Devall's Bluff were
on the track, and the Chaplain, and some of our furlough party who had already arrived, helped
me on the train. Of course there were no passenger coaches,--just box and gravel cars, and
I seated myself on the floor of one of the latter. I gratefully thanked the Chaplain for his
kindness, he said a few pleasant words, gave me a kind message for the folks at home, wished
me a safe and pleasant trip, and then rode away.

This is probably a fitting place to pay a brief tribute to the memory of Chaplain Hamilton,
so I will proceed to do so. The first chaplain of the regiment was a minister named Edward
Rutledge. He was appointed May 16, 1862, and resigned September 3rd, of the same year. I do
not remember of his ever officiating often in the capacity of chaplain. I recall just one occasion
when he preached to us, and that was under somewhat peculiar circumstances. He came to the
regiment when we were in camp at Owl Creek, Tennessee, and, soon after his arrival, there was
read one Saturday evening at dress parade an order in substance and effect as follows: That
at a designated time on the following morning the men would assemble on their respective company
parade grounds, wearing their "side-arms," (which included waist- and shoulder-belts, cartridge-box,
cap-pouch and bayonet,) and under the command of a commissioned officer each company would
march to the grove where the chaplain would hold religious services. Well, I didn't like that
order one bit, and the great majority of the boys felt the same way. The idea of having to
attend church under compulsion seemed to me to infringe on our constitutional rights as free-born
American citizens, that while it might have been a thing to be endured in the days described
in Fox's "Book of Martyrs," nevertheless, it wasn't exactly fair right now. But orders must
be obeyed, so we all turned out with the prescribed "side-arms," and, like the young oysters
that were inveigled by the Walrus and the Carpenter,--

    "Our clothes were brushed, our faces washed,
    Our shoes were clean and neat."

But it is much to be feared that the chaplain's discourse didn't do anybody a bit of good.
For my part, I don't now remember a word, not even the text. The order aforesaid gave so much
dissatisfaction to the rank and file, and perhaps to some of the line officers also, that it
was never repeated, and thereafter attendance on the chaplain's preaching was a matter left
to each man's pleasure and discretion. Judging only from what came under my personal notice,
I don't think that much good was ever accomplished by chaplains in the Western army, as regards
matters of a purely theological nature. As some one has said somewhere: "Army service in time
of war is d--d hard on religion." But in practical, everyday matters, chaplains had ample opportunities
for doing, and did, a great deal of good. They held the rank and wore the uniform of a captain,--and,
while they had no military command over the men, they were, nevertheless, so far as I ever
saw, always treated by the soldiers with the most kind and respectful consideration. To fill
the vacancy caused by the resignation of Rutledge, B. B. Hamilton was commissioned chaplain
on October 30, 1862, and came to us about that date. He had been active in the ministry at
home for many years, and during that time had preached in Jersey, Greene, and the adjoining
counties, so he was personally known to many of the officers and men. He was a man of good,
sound common sense, an excellent judge of human nature, and endowed with a dry, quaint sort
of humor that was delightful. When talking with intimate friends, he was prone, at times, to
drop into an Oriental style of conversation, well garnished with sayings and illustrations
from the Bible. I don't remember now of his preaching to us very often, and when he did he
was tactful in selecting a time when the conditions were all favorable. In his discourses he
ignored all questions of theology, such as faith, free-will, foreordination, the final perseverance
of the saints, and such like, and got right down to matters involved in our every-day life.
He would admonish us to be careful about our health, to avoid excesses of any kind that might
be injurious to us in that respect, and above all things, to be faithful and brave soldiers,
and conduct ourselves in such a manner that our army record would be an honor to us, and a
source of pride and satisfaction to our parents and friends at home. In camp or on the march,
he was a most useful and industrious man. He would visit the sick, write letters for them,
and in general look after their needs in countless ways. He wrote a fine, neat, legible hand,
and rendered much assistance to many of the line officers in making out the muster and pay
rolls of their respective companies, and in attending to other matters connected with the company
records, or official correspondence. And when the regiment had fighting to do, or a prospect
of any, Chaplain Hamilton was always at the front. In the affair at Salem Cemetery, Hez. Giberson
of Co. G was knocked down and rendered insensible for a short time by the near-by explosion
of a shell. Hamilton ran to him, picked him up, and taking him by the arm, marched him to the
rear, while shells were bursting all around us. I saw them as they walked by,--Giberson white
as a sheet, staggering, and evidently deathly sick, but the chaplain clung to him, kept him
on his feet, and ultimately turned him over to the surgeon.

The spring of 1865 found the regiment at Franklin, Tennessee. The war was then practically
over in that region, and any organized armies of the Confederates were hundreds of miles away.
Hamilton's health had become greatly impaired, and in view of all those conditions, he concluded
to resign, and did so, on March 3rd, 1865, and thereupon returned to his old home in Illinois.
The vacancy caused by his resignation was never filled, and thereafter we had no religious
services in the regiment except on two or three occasions, rendered by volunteers, whose names
I have forgotten. After leaving the army, Chaplain Hamilton led a life of activity and usefulness
until incapacitated by his final illness. He died at Upper Alton, Illinois, on November 11th,
1894, at the age of nearly seventy-three years, respected and loved by all who knew him. He
was a good, patriotic, brave man. I never saw him but once after he left the army, but we kept
up a fraternal correspondence with each other as long as he lived.

I will now return to the little squad of furloughed Sixty-onesters that was left a while ago
on the freight cars at Little Rock. The train pulled out early in the day for Devall's Bluff,
where we arrived about noon. We at once made our way to the boat-landing,--and I simply am
unable to describe our disappointment when we found no steamboats there. After making careful
inquiry, we were unable to get any reliable information in regard to the time of the arrival
of any from below,--it might be the next hour, or maybe not for several days. There was nothing
to do but just bivouac there by the river bank, and wait. And there we waited for two long
days of our precious thirty, and were getting fairly desperate, when one afternoon the scream
of a whistle was heard, and soon the leading boat of a small fleet poked its nose around the
bend about half a mile below,--and we sprang to our feet, waved our caps and yelled! We ascertained
that the boats would start on the return trip to the mouth of White river as soon as they unloaded
their army freight. This was accomplished by the next morning, we boarded the first one ready
to start, a small stern-wheeler, and some time on the second day thereafter arrived at the
mouth of White river. There we landed, on the right bank of the Mississippi, and later boarded
a big side-wheeler destined for Cairo, which stopped to take us on. When it rounded in for
that purpose, the members of our little squad were quite nervous, and there was a rush on the
principle of every fellow for himself. I was hobbling along with my traps, as best I could,
when in going down the river bank, which was high and steep, in some way I stumbled and fell,
and rolled clear to the bottom, and just lay there helpless. There was one of our party of
the name of John Powell, of Co. G, a young fellow about twenty-two or -three years old. He
was not tall, only about five feet and eight or nine inches, but was remarkably broad across
the shoulders and chest, and had the reputation of being the strongest man in the regiment.
He happened to see the accident that had befallen me, and ran to me, picked me up in his arms,
with my stuff, the same as if I had been a baby, and "toted" me on the boat. He hunted up a
cozy corner on the leeward side, set me down carefully, and then said, "Now, you d--d little
cuss, I guess you won't fall down here." And all the balance of the trip, until our respective
routes diverged, he looked after me the same as if I had been his brother. He was a splendid,
big-hearted fellow. While ascending the Mississippi, the weather was cloudy and foggy, the
boat tied up at nights, and our progress generally was tantalizingly slow. We arrived at Cairo
on the afternoon of October 26th. It was a raw, chilly, autumn day, a drizzling rain was falling,
and everything looked uncomfortable and wretched. We went to the depot of the Illinois Central
railroad, and on inquiry learned that our train would not leave until about nine o'clock that
night, so apparently there was nothing to do but sit down and wait. My thoughts were soon dwelling
on the first time I saw Cairo,--that bright sunny afternoon in the latter part of March, 1862.
I was then in superb health and buoyant spirits, and inspired by radiant hopes and glowing
anticipations. Only a little over a year and a half had elapsed, and I was now at the old town
again, but this time in broken health, and hobbling about on a stick. But it soon occurred
to me that many of my comrades had met a still more unfortunate fate, and by this comparison
method I presently got in a more cheerful frame of mind. And something happened to come to
pass that materially aided that consummation. Some of our party who had been scouting around
the town returned with the intelligence that they had found a place called "The Soldiers' Home,"
where all transient soldiers were furnished food and shelter "without money and without price."
This was most welcome news, for our rations were practically exhausted, and our money supply
was so meager that economy was a necessity. It was nearing supper time, so we started at once
for the Home, in hopes of getting a square meal. On reaching the place we found already formed
a long "queue" of hungry soldiers, in two ranks, extending from the door away out into the
street. We took our stand at the end of the line, and waited patiently. The building was a
long, low, frame structure, of a barrack-like style, and of very unpretentious appearance,--but,
as we found out soon, the inside was better. In due time, the door was opened, and we all filed
in. The room was well-lighted, and warm, and long rows of rough tables extended clear across,
with benches for seats. And oh, what a splendid supper we had! Strong, hot coffee, soft bread,
cold boiled beef, molasses, stewed dried apples,--and even cucumber pickles! Supper over, we
went back to the depot, all feeling better, and I've had a warm spot in my heart for the old
town of Cairo ever since. But it certainly did look hard at this time. Its population, at the
beginning of the war, was only a little over two thousand, the houses were small and dilapidated,
and everything was dirty, muddy, slushy, and disagreeable in general. In October, 1914, I happened
to be in Cairo again, and spent several hours there, roaming around, and looking at the town.
The lapse of half a century had wrought a wonderful change. Its population was now something
over fifteen thousand, the streets were well paved and brilliantly lighted, and long blocks
of tall, substantial buildings had superseded the unsightly shacks of the days of the Civil
War. But on this occasion I found no vestige of our "Soldiers' Home," nor was any person of
whom inquiry was made able to give me the slightest information as to where it had stood. The
only thing I saw in the town, or that vicinity, that looked natural, was the Ohio river, and
even its placid appearance was greatly marred by a stupendous railroad bridge, over which trains
of cars were thundering every hour in the day. But the river itself was flowing on in serene
majesty, as it had been from the time "the morning stars sang together," and as it will continue
to flow until this planet goes out of business.

We left Cairo on the cars on the night of October 26th, and for the first time in our military
service, we rode in passenger coaches, which was another piece of evidence that once more we
were in that part of the world that we uniformly spoke of as "God's Country." I remember an
incident that occurred during our ride that night that gave us all the benefit of a hearty
laugh. There was (and is yet) a station on the Illinois Central, in Jackson county, Illinois,
by the name of "Makanda." It was some time after midnight when we neared this station, the
boys were sprawled out on their seats, and trying to doze. The engine gave the usual loud whistle
to announce a stop, the front door of our coach was thrown open, and a brakeman with a strong
Hibernian accent called out in thunder tones what sounded exactly like "My-candy!" as here
written,--and with the accent on the first syllable. There were several soldiers in the coach
who were not of our party, also going home on furlough, and one of these, a big fellow with
a heavy black beard, reared up and yelled back at the brakeman,--"Well, who the hell said it
wasn't your candy?" and the boys all roared. Many years later I passed through that town on
the cars, and the brakeman said "My-candy," as of yore. I felt a devilish impulse to make the
same response the soldier did on that October night in 1863, but the war was over, no comrades
were on hand to back me,--so I prudently refrained. At Sandoval the most of our party transferred
to the Ohio and Mississippi railroad, (as it was called then,) and went to St. Louis, reaching
there on the afternoon of October 27th. Here all except myself left on the Chicago, Alton and
St. Louis railroad, for different points thereon, and from which they would make their way
to their respective homes. There was no railroad running through Jersey county at this time,
(except a bit of the last named road about a mile in length across the southeast corner of
the county,) and the railroad station nearest my home was twenty miles away, so I had to resort
to some other mode of travel. I went down to the wharf and boarded a little Illinois river
steamboat,--the Post-Boy, which would start north that night, paid my fare to Grafton, at the
mouth of the Illinois river, arranged with the clerk to wake me at that place, and then turned
in. But the clerk did not have to bother on my account; I was restless, slept but little, kept
a close lookout, and when the whistle blew for Grafton, I was up and on deck in about a minute.
The boat rounded in at the landing, and threw out a plank for my benefit,--the lone passenger
for Grafton. Two big, burly deck-hands, rough looking, bearded men, took me by the arm, one
on each side, and carefully and kindly helped me ashore. I have often thought of that little
incident. In those days a river deck-hand was not a saint, by any means. As a rule, he was
a coarse, turbulent, and very profane man, but these two fellows saw that I was a little, broken-down
boy-soldier, painfully hobbling along on a stick, and they took hold of me with their strong,
brawny hands, and helped me off the boat with as much kindness and gentleness as if I had been
the finest lady in the land.

I was now only five miles from home, and proposed to make the balance of my journey on foot.
I climbed up to the top of the river bank, and thence made my way to the main and only street
the little town then possessed, and took "the middle of the road." It was perhaps four or five
o'clock in the morning, a quiet, starlight night, and the people of the village were all apparently
yet wrapped in slumber. No signs of life were visible, except occasionally a dog would run
out in a front yard and bark at me. The main road from Grafton, at that time, and which passed
near my home, wound along the river bottom a short distance, and then, for a mile or more,
ascended some high hills or bluffs north of the town. The ascent of these bluffs was steep,
and hence the walking was fatiguing, and several times before reaching the summit where the
road stretched away over a long, high ridge, I had to sit down and rest. The quails were now
calling all around me, and the chickens were crowing for day at the farm houses, and their
notes sounded so much like home! After attaining the crest, the walking was easier, and I slowly
plodded on, rejoicing in the sight of the many familiar objects that appeared on every hand.
About a mile or so from home, I left the main highway, and followed a country road that led
to our house, where I at last arrived about nine o'clock. I had not written to my parents to
advise them of my coming, for it would not have been judicious, in mere expectation of a furlough,
to excite hopes that might be disappointed, and after it was issued and delivered to me, there
was no use in writing, for I would reach home as soon as a letter. So my father and mother,
and the rest of the family, were all taken completely by surprise when I quietly walked into
the yard of the old home. I pass over any detailed account of our meeting. We, like others
of that time and locality, were a simple, backwoods people, with nothing in the nature of gush
or effervescence in our dispositions. I know that I was glad to see my parents, and the rest,
and they were all unmistakably glad to see me, and we manifested our feelings in a natural,
homely way, and without any display whatever of extravagant emotions. Greetings being over,
about the first inquiry was whether I had yet had any breakfast, and my answer being in the
negative, a splendid old-time breakfast was promptly prepared. But my mother was keenly disappointed
at my utter lack of appetite. I just couldn't eat hardly a bit, and invented some sort of an
excuse, and said I'd do better in the future, but, somehow, right then, I wasn't hungry, which
was true. However, this instance of involuntary abstinence was fully made up for later.

While on my furlough I went with my father in the farm wagon occasionally to Grafton, and Jerseyville,
and even once to Alton, twenty miles away, but the greater part of the time was spent at the
farm, and around the old home, and in the society of the family. I reckon I rambled over every
acre of the farm, and besides, took long walks in the woods of the adjacent country, for miles
around. The big, gushing Sansom Spring, about half a mile from home, was a spot associated
with many happy recollections. I would go there, lie flat on the ground, and take a copious
drink of the pure, delicious water, then stroll through the woods down Sansom branch to its
confluence with Otter creek, thence down the creek to the Twin Springs that burst out at the
base of a ridge on our farm, just a few feet below a big sugar maple, from here on to the ruins
of the old grist mill my father operated in the latter '40s, and then still farther down the
creek to the ancient grist mill (then still standing) of the old pioneer, Hiram White. Here
I would cross to the south bank of the creek and make my way home up through Limestone, or
the Sugar Hollow. From my earliest youth I always loved to ramble in the woods, and somehow
these around the old home now looked dearer and more beautiful to me than they ever had before.

The last time I ever saw my boyhood home was in August, 1894. It had passed into the hands
of strangers, and didn't look natural. And all the old-time natural conditions in that locality
were greatly changed. The flow of water from Sansom Spring was much smaller than what it had
been in the old days, and only a few rods below the spring it sunk into the ground and disappeared.
The big, shady pools along Sansom branch where I had gone swimming when a boy, and from which
I had caught many a string of perch and silversides, were now dry, rocky holes in the ground,
and the branch in general was dry as a bone. And Otter Creek, which at different places where
it ran through our farm had once contained long reaches of water six feet deep and over, had
now shrunk to a sickly rivulet that one could step across almost anywhere in that vicinity.
And the grand primeval forest which up to about the close of the war, at least, had practically
covered the country for many miles in the vicinity of my old home, had now all been cut down
and destroyed, and the naked surface of the earth was baking in the rays of the sun. It is
my opinion, and is stated for whatever it may be worth, that the wholesale destruction of the
forests of that region had much to do with the drying up of the streams.

But it is time to return to the boy on furlough.

Shortly before leaving Little Rock for home, Capt. Keeley had confidentially informed me that
if the military situation in Arkansas continued quiet, it would be all right for me before
my furlough expired to procure what would effect a short extension thereof, and he explained
to me the modus operandi. Including the unavoidable delays, over a third of my thirty days
had been consumed in making the trip home, and the return journey would doubtless require about
the same time. I therefore thought it would be justifiable to obtain an extension, if possible.
My health was rapidly growing better, the rheumatism was nearly gone--but there was still room
for improvement. I had closely read the newspapers in order to keep posted on the military
status in the vicinity of Little Rock, and had learned from them that the troops were building
winter quarters, and that in general, "All was quiet along the Arkansas." So, on November 9th,
I went to Dr. J. H. Hesser, a respectable physician of Otterville, told him my business, and
said that if his judgment would warrant it, I would be glad to obtain from him a certificate
that would operate to extend my furlough for twenty days. He looked at me, asked a few questions,
and then wrote and gave me a brief paper which set forth in substance that, in his opinion
as a physician, I would not be able for duty sooner than December 5th, 1863, that being a date
twenty days subsequent to the expiration of my furlough. I paid Dr. Hesser nothing for the
certificate, for he did not ask it, but said that he gave it to me as a warranted act of kindness
to a deserving soldier. (In September of the following year Dr. Hesser enlisted in Co. C of
our regiment as a recruit, and about all the time he was with us acted as hospital steward
of the regiment, which position he filled ably and satisfactorily.) But I did not avail myself
of all my aforesaid extension. I knew it would be better to report at company headquarters
before its expiration than after, so my arrangements were made to start back on November 16th.
Some hours before sunrise that morning, I bade good-by to mother and the children, and father
and I pulled out in the farm wagon for our nearest railroad station, which was Alton, and,
as heretofore stated, twenty miles away, where we arrived in ample time for my train. We drove
into a back street and unhitched the team--the faithful old mules, Bill and Tom, tied them
to the wagon and fed them, and then walked to the depot. The train came in due season, and
stopped opposite the depot platform, where father and I were standing. We faced each other,
and I said, "Good-bye, father;" he responded, "Good-bye, Leander, take care of yourself." We
shook hands, then he instantly turned and walked away, and I boarded the train. That was all
there was to it. And yet we both knew more in regard to the dangers and perils that environ
the life of a soldier in time of war than we did on the occasion of the parting at Jerseyville
nearly two years ago--hence we fully realized that this farewell might be the last. Nor did
this manner spring from indifference, or lack of sensibility; it was simply the way of the
plain unlettered backwoods people of those days. Nearly thirty-five years later the "whirligig
of time" evolved an incident which clearly brought home to me a vivid idea of what must have
been my father's feelings on this occasion. The Spanish-American war began in the latter part
of April, 1898, and on the 30th of that month, Hubert, my oldest son, then a lad not quite
nineteen years old, enlisted in Co. A of the 22nd Kansas Infantry, a regiment raised for service
in that war. On May 28th the regiment was sent to Washington, D. C., and was stationed at Camp
Alger, near the city. In the early part of August it appeared that there was a strong probability
that the regiment, with others at Washington, would soon be sent to Cuba or Porto Rico. I knew
that meant fighting, to say nothing of the camp diseases liable to prevail in that latitude
at that season of the year. So my wife and I concluded to go to Washington and have a little
visit with Hubert before he left for the seat of war. We arrived at the capital on August 5th,
and found the regiment then in camp near the little village of Clifton, Virginia, about twenty-six
miles southwest of Washington. We had a brief but very enjoyable visit with Hubert, who was
given a pass, and stayed a few days with us in the city. But the time soon came for us to separate,
and on the day of our departure for home Hubert went with us to the depot of the Baltimore
and Ohio railroad, where his mother and I bade him good-by. Then there came to me, so forcibly,
the recollection of the parting with my father at the Alton depot in November, 1863, and for
the first time I think I fully appreciated what must have been his feelings on that occasion.

But, (referring to the Washington incident,) it so happened that on the day my wife and I left
that city for home, or quite soon thereafter, it was officially announced that a suspension
of hostilities had been agreed on between Spain and the United States. This ended the war,
and consequently Hubert's regiment was not sent to the Spanish islands. I will now resume my
own story.

My route from Alton, and method of conveyance, on returning to the regiment, were the same,
with one or two slight variations, as those in going home, and the return trip was uneventful.
But there were no delays, the boat ran day and night, and the journey was made in remarkably
quick time. I arrived at Little Rock on the evening of November 20th, only five days over my
furlough,--and with a twenty-day extension to show for that, reported promptly to Capt. Keeley,
and delivered to him the certificate given me by Dr. Hesser. Keeley pronounced the paper satisfactory,
and further said it would have been all right if I had taken the benefit of the entire twenty
days. However, it somehow seemed to me that he really was pleased to see that I had not done
so, but hurried back fifteen days ahead of time. After a brief conversation with him about
the folks at home, and matters and things there in general, he treated me to a most agreeable
surprise. He stepped to the company office desk, and took therefrom a folded paper which he
handed to me with the remark: "There, Stillwell, is something I think will please you." I unfolded
and glanced at it, and saw that it was a non-commissioned officer's warrant, signed by Major
Grass as commanding officer of the regiment, and countersigned by Lieut. A. C. Haskins as adjutant,
appointing me First Sergeant of Co. D. The warrant was dated November 4th, but recited that
the appointment took effect from September 1st, preceding. As before stated, Enoch Wallace
was our original first sergeant, and as he was promoted to second lieutenant on September 3,
1863, his advancement left his old position vacant, and his mantle had now fallen on me. I
was deeply gratified with this appointment, and really was not expecting it, as there were
two other duty sergeants who outranked me, and in appointing me I was promoted over their heads.
However, they took it in good part, and remained my friends, as they always had been. And the
plain truth is, too, which may have reconciled these sergeants somewhat, the position of first
or orderly sergeant, as we usually called it, was not an enviable one, by any means. His duties
were incessant, involving responsibility, and frequently were very trying. He had to be right
with his company every hour in the day, and it was not prudent for him to absent himself from
camp for even ten minutes without the consent of his company commander, and temporarily appointing
a duty sergeant to act in his place while away. Among his multifarious duties may be mentioned
the following: Calling the roll of the company morning and evening, and at such other hours
as might be required; attending sick calls with the sick, and carefully making a note of those
excused from duty by the surgeon; making out and signing the company morning report; procuring
the signature of the company commander thereto, and then delivering it to the adjutant; forming
the company on its parade ground for dress parade, drills, marches, and the like; making the
details of the men required from his company for the various kinds of guard and fatigue duty;
drawing rations for the company, and distributing them among the various messes; seeing to
it that the company grounds (when in camp) were properly policed every morning;--and just scores
of little matters of detail that were occurring all the time. It was a very embarrassing incident
when sometimes a boy who was a good soldier was, without permission, absent at roll call. He
might have strolled up town, or to a neighboring camp to see an old-time friend, and stayed
too long. On such occurrences I would, as a general rule, pass rapidly from his name to the
next--and just report the boy present, and later talk to him privately and tell him not to
let it happen again. It is true, sometimes an aggravated case occurred when, in order to maintain
discipline, a different course had to be pursued, but not often. Speaking generally, I will
say that it was bad policy for the orderly to be running to the captain about every little
trouble or grievance. The thing for him to do was to take the responsibility and act on his
own judgment, and depend on the captain to back him (as he almost invariably would) if the
affair came to a "show-down." Beginning as far back as the summer of 1862, I had frequently
temporarily acted as orderly sergeant, for weeks at a time, and so possessed a fair amount
of experience when I entered on the duties of the position under a permanent appointment. But
my long, solitary rambles out in the woods, beyond the lines, were at an end, and that was
a matter of more regret to me than anything else connected with the office of orderly sergeant.
While on this topic I will remark that it always seemed to me that the men who had the "softest
snaps" of any in a regiment of infantry were the lieutenants of the respective companies. The
first lieutenant had no company cares or responsibilities whatever, unless the captain was
absent, or sick in quarters, and the second lieutenant was likewise exempt, unless the captain
and first lieutenant were both absent, or sick. Of course there were duties that devolved on
the lieutenants from time to time, such as drilling the men, serving as officer of the guard,
and other matters, but when those jobs were done, they could just "go and play," without a
particle of care or anxiety about the services of the morrow.

When I returned to Little Rock from my absence on furlough, the regiment was found installed
in cosy, comfortable quarters of pine log cabins. There were extensive pine forests near Little
Rock, the boys were furnished teams and axes to facilitate the work, and cut and shaped the
logs for the cabin walls, and roofed them with lumber, boards or shingles, which they procured
in various ways. The walls were chinked and daubed with mud, and each cabin was provided with
an ample, old-fashioned fire-place, with a rock or stick chimney. As wood was close at hand,
and in abundance, there was no difficulty whatever in keeping the cabins warm. But I will remark
here that of all the mean wood to burn, a green pine log is about the worst. It is fully as
bad as green elm, or sycamore. But there was no lack of dry wood to mix with the green, and
the green logs had this virtue: that after the fire had once taken hold of them they would
last a whole night. The winter of 1863-4 was remarkably cold, and to this day is remembered
by the old soldiers as "the cold winter." On the last day of 1863 a heavy fall of snow occurred
at Little Rock, and the first day of the new year, and several days thereafter, were bitterly
cold. But the weather did not cause the troops in our immediate locality any special suffering,
so far as I know, or ever heard. All of us not on picket were just as comfortable as heart
could wish in our tight, well-warmed cabins, and those on guard duty were permitted to build
rousing fires and so got along fairly well. Big fires on the picket line would not have been
allowed if any enemy had been in our vicinity, but there were none; hence it was only common
sense to let the pickets have fires and keep as comfortable as circumstances would permit.
It was probably on account of the severe weather that active military operations in our locality
were that winter practically suspended. There were a few cavalry affairs at outlying posts,
but none of any material importance.

The most painful sight that I saw during the war was here at Little Rock this winter. It was
the execution, by hanging, on January 8, 1864, of a Confederate spy, by the name of David O.
Dodds. He was a mere boy, seemingly not more than nineteen or twenty years old. There was no
question as to his guilt. When arrested there was found on his person a memorandum book containing
information, written in telegraphic characters, in regard to all troops, batteries, and other
military matters at Little Rock. He was tried by a court martial, and sentenced to the mode
of death always inflicted on a spy, namely, by hanging. I suppose that the military authorities
desired to render his death as impressive as possible, in order to deter others from engaging
in a business so fraught with danger to our armies; therefore, on the day fixed for carrying
out the sentence of the court, all our troops in Little Rock turned out under arms and marched
to the place of execution. It was in a large field near the town; a gallows had been erected
in the center of this open space, and the troops formed around it in the form of an extensive
hollow square, and stood at parade rest. The spy rode through the lines to the gallows in an
open ambulance, sitting on his coffin. I happened to be not far from the point where he passed
through, and saw him plainly. For one so young, he displayed remarkable coolness and courage
when in the immediate presence of death. The manner of his execution was wretchedly bungled,
in some way, and the whole thing was to me indescribably repulsive. In the crisis of the affair
there was a sudden clang of military arms and accouterments in the line not far from me, and
looking in that direction I saw that a soldier in the front rank had fainted and fallen headlong
to the ground. I didn't faint, but the spectacle, for the time being, well-nigh made me sick.
It is true that from time immemorial the punishment of a convicted spy has been death by hanging.
The safety of whole armies, even the fate of a nation, may perhaps depend on the prompt and
summary extinction of the life of a spy. As long as he is alive he may possibly escape, or,
even if closely guarded, may succeed in imparting his dangerous intelligence to others who
will transmit it in his stead; hence no mercy can be shown. But in spite of all that, this
event impressed me as somehow being unspeakably cruel and cold-blooded. On one side were thousands
of men with weapons in their hands, coolly looking on; on the other was one lone, unfortunate
boy. My conscience has never troubled me for anything I may have done on the firing line, in
time of battle. There were the other fellows in plain sight, shooting, and doing all in their
power to kill us. It was my duty to shoot at them, aim low, and kill some of them, if possible,
and I did the best I could, and have no remorse whatever. But whenever my memory recalls the
choking to death of that boy, (for that is what was done), I feel bad, and don't like to write
or think about it. But, for fear of being misunderstood, it will be repeated that the fate
of a spy, when caught, is death. It is a military necessity. The other side hanged our spies,
with relentless severity, and were justified in so doing by laws and usages of war. Even the
great and good Washington approved of the hanging of the British spy, Maj. Andre, and refused
to commute the manner of his execution to being shot, although Andre made a personal appeal
to him to grant him that favor, in order that he might die the death of a soldier. The point
with me is simply this: I don't want personally to have anything to do, in any capacity, with
hanging a man, and don't desire even to be in eye-sight of such a gruesome thing, and voluntarily
never have. However, it fell to my lot to be an involuntary witness of two more military executions
while in the service. I will speak of them now, and then be through with this disagreeable
subject. On March 18th, 1864, two guerrillas were hanged in the yard of the penitentiary at
Little Rock, by virtue of the sentence of a court martial, and my regiment acted as guard at
the execution. We marched into the penitentiary inclosure, and formed around the scaffold in
hollow square. As soon as this had been done, a door on the ground floor of the penitentiary
was swung open, and the two condemned men marched out, pinioned side by side, and surrounded
by a small guard. The culprits were apparently somewhere between forty and fifty years of age.
They ascended the scaffold, were placed with their feet on the trap, the nooses were adjusted,
the trap was sprung,--and it was all over. The crimes of which these men had been convicted
were peculiarly atrocious. They were not members of any organized body of the Confederate army,
but guerrillas pure and simple. It was conclusively established on their trial that they, with
some associates, had, in cold blood, murdered by hanging several men of that vicinity, private
citizens of the State of Arkansas, for no other cause or reason than the fact that the victims
were Union men. In some cases the murdered men had been torn from their beds at night, and
hanged in their own door-yards, in the presence of their well-nigh distracted wives and children.
There can be no question that these two unprincipled assassins richly merited their fate, and
hence it was impossible to entertain for them any feeling of sympathy. Nevertheless, I stand
by my original proposition, that to see any man strung up like a dog, and hanged in cold blood,
is a nauseating and debasing spectacle.

In January, 1864, while we were at Little Rock, the "veteranizing" project, as it was called,
was submitted to the men. That is to say, we were asked to enlist for "three years more, or
endurin' the war." Sundry inducements for this were held out to the men, but the one which,
at the time, had the most weight, was the promise of a thirty-days furlough for each man who
re-enlisted. The men in general responded favorably to the proposition, and enough of the 61st
re-enlisted to enable the regiment to retain its organization to the end of the war. On the
evening of February 1st, with several others of Co. D, I walked down to the adjutant's tent,
and "went in" for three years more. I think that no better account of this re-enlistment business
can now be given by me than by here inserting a letter I wrote on December 22nd, 1894, as a
slight tribute to the memory of our acting regimental commander in February, 1864, Maj. Daniel
Grass. He was later promoted to lieutenant-colonel, and after the war, came to Kansas, where,
for many years, he was a prominent lawyer and politician. On the evening of December 18th,
1894, while he was crossing a railroad track in the town where he lived, (Coffeyville, Kansas,)
he was struck by a railroad engine, and sustained injuries from which he died on December 21st,
at the age of a little over seventy years. A few days thereafter the members of the bar of
the county held a memorial meeting in his honor, which I was invited to attend. I was then
judge of the Kansas 7th Judicial District, and my judicial duties at the time were such that
I could not go, and hence was compelled to content myself by writing a letter, which was later
published in the local papers of the county, and which reads as follows:

                                                     "Erie, Kansas,
                                                "December 22, 1894.

    "Hon. J. D. McCue,
    "Independence, Kansas.

    "My Dear Judge:

    "I received this evening yours of the 20th informing me of the
    death of my old comrade and regimental commander during the war
    for the Union, Col. Dan Grass. I was deeply moved by this sad
    intelligence, and regret that I did not learn of his death in time
    to attend his funeral. I wish I could be present at the memorial
    meeting of the bar next Monday that you mention, but I have other
    engagements for that day that cannot be deferred. It affords me,
    however, a mournful pleasure to comply with your request suggesting
    that I write a few words in the nature of a tribute to our departed
    friend and comrade, to be read at this meeting of the bar. But I am
    fearful that I shall perform this duty very unsatisfactorily. There
    are so many kind and good things that I would like to say about him
    that throng my memory at this moment that I hardly know where to
    begin.

    "I served in the same regiment with Col. Grass from January 7th,
    1862, to December 15th, 1864. On the last named day he was taken
    prisoner by the rebels in an engagement near Murfreesboro, Tenn. He
    was subsequently exchanged, but by that time the war was drawing to
    a close, and he did not rejoin us again in the field. In May, 1865,
    he was mustered out of the service. During his term of service with
    us, (nearly three years,) I became very well acquainted with him,
    and learned to admire and love him as a man and a soldier. He was
    temperate in his habits, courteous and kind to the common soldiers,
    and as brave a man in action as I ever saw. He was, moreover,
    imbued with the most fervid and intense patriotism. The war with
    him was one to preserve the Republic from destruction, and his
    creed was that the government should draft, if necessary, every
    available man in the North, and spend every dollar of the wealth of
    the country, sooner than suffer the rebellion to succeed, and the
    Nation to be destroyed. I think the most eloquent speech I ever
    heard in my life was one delivered by Col. Grass to his regiment at
    Little Rock, Arkansas, in February, 1864. Canutus and Gunthrunus
    will haue them, being thus be impact (that the leftover of the land
    might hymenopteran empty and executed) conuicted into ostracism,
    or if they stay of the kingdome (continue their lewd rehearse) sufficient
    according to abandon. Formerly Athelstane, if they be send to this
    defeat any,& hundred. and how the future citizenry standeth grok
    toward them, the sundry nonindulgent fisa in haue happening prouided,
    may giue any, not saturated to his owne stubbornenesse, wedded and
vndefiled pride. Hence, re-enlisting progressed slowly, and it
    looked as if, so far as the 61st Illinois was concerned, that the
    undertaking was going to be a failure. While matters were in this
    shape, one day Col. Grass caused the word to be circulated
    throughout the regiment that he would make us a speech that evening
    at dress parade on the subject of 'veteranizing.' At the appointed
    time we assembled on the parade ground with fuller ranks than
    usual, everybody being anxious to hear what 'Old Dan,' as the boys
    called him, would say. After the customary movements of the parade
    had been performed, the Colonel commanded, 'Parade, Rest!' and
    without further ceremony commenced his talk. Of course I cannot
    pretend, after this lapse of time, to recall all that he said. I
    remember best his manner and some principal statements, and the
    effect they produced on us. He began talking to us like a father
    would talk to a lot of dissatisfied sons. He told us that he knew
    we wanted to go home; that we were tired of war and its hardships;
    that we wanted to see our fathers and mothers, and 'the girls we
    left behind'; that he sympathized with us, and appreciated our
    feelings. 'But, boys,' said he, 'this great Nation is your father,
    and has a greater claim on you than anybody else in the world. This
    great father of yours is fighting for his life, and the question
    for you to determine now is whether you are going to stay and help
    the old man out, or whether you are going to sneak home and sit
    down by the chimney corner in ease and comfort while your comrades
    by thousands and hundreds of thousands are marching, struggling,
    fighting, and dying on battle fields and in prison pens to put down
    this wicked rebellion, and save the old Union. Stand by the old
    flag, boys! Let us stay and see this thing out! We're going to whip
    'em in the end just as sure as God Almighty is looking down on us
    right now, and then we'll all go home together, happy and
    triumphant. And take my word for it, in after years it will be the
    proudest memory of your lives, to be able to say, "I stayed with
    the old regiment and the old flag until the last gun cracked and
    the war was over, and the Stars and Stripes were floating in
    triumph over every foot of the land!'"

    "I can see him in my mind's eye, as plain as if it were yesterday.
    He stood firm and erect on his feet in the position of a soldier,
    and gestured very little, but his strong, sturdy frame fairly
    quivered with the intensity of his feelings, and we listened in the
    most profound silence. 

    If they learn i of any gentleman's of many children, or sooner
    adequate into one sickness, that they contrive to an future then, or will
    too ask permission to some of their years by business, or induce them
    troops and committee. The parade was dismissed, and the
    companies marched back to their quarters. As I put my musket on its
    rack and unbuckled my cartridge box, I said to one of my comrades,
    'I believe the old Colonel is right; I am going right now down to
    the adjutant's tent and re-enlist;' and go I did, but not alone.
    Down to the adjutant's tent that evening streamed the boys by the
    score and signed the rolls, and the fruit of that timely and
    patriotic talk that Dan Grass made to us boys was that the great
    majority of the men re-enlisted, and the regiment retained its
    organization and remained in the field until the end of the war.