Today we see how everything waits upon its own cause, and how change is only brought about
by the processes of regular unfoldment. We know now that the Whole can only come into expression
through the Part, and that the fulfillment of an individual, a nation, or a race must come
under the silent operation of those spiritual laws of human understanding which neither the
race nor the individual can outstrip.

GOD is LAW, and LAW began when LIFE began and only a deep union with the finer relationships
of Life can ever bring us into DOMINION of power.

There has ever been and ever will be many expressions of LAW, and between the Absolute expression
and the finite results there must ever be the grinding to dust and ashes of things which oppose
either the lesser or the larger unfoldment.

When we look at life from the limited, personal view we can only see from the boundary line
of the unfathomed self; but as we come into deeper consciousness, we learn that expectation
and promise built on personal hope is one thing, and expectation and promise built on universal
understanding of universal action is another.

We are a part of everything in the universe and as we come to look through the personal to
the universal, we see clearly the inseparable ONENESS of God-consciousness and man-consciousness,
and as we understand and master this relationship, we can read the real answer to our question:
"Where are the promises?"

Human life has always been, and always will be, only the unfolding of the personal mind into
recognition of the Absolute Mind.

The Universe is under the Law Eternal and in the degree that we know this, we stop our limitations;
mankind is free in the Absolute Law, and only seemingly bound in the finite one. Not one jot
or tittle of the Law ever passes away; all laws exist to be fulfilled, but human life evolves
from level to level of consciousness, and through relationship with higher understanding it
escapes the primitive expressions of the lower laws and unites itself with the higher.

The very first truth, then, for any life to learn is, that in this universe of law and order,
we get just what we relate with--no more, no less! Nothing happens; everything is the natural
expression of the action which produces it.

Jesus came into the world under the law of his own life; he was born to pass along and die
expressing the forms of his higher knowledge; he came and went under his own laws, but these
were too obscure for the minds of that race to comprehend, and they lived, hoped and died,
ignorant of his great Cosmic relationship. Jesus was a son of the planet and his mission was
to set laws of race consciousness into activity which would act as a spiritual fulcrum throughout
the ages.

What was true in these olden days is still true today; we often go on hoping that fulfillment
will come, when by the very nature of what we are doing, we cannot get the higher expression.
Take the simple things of our everyday life, our hope of health or our hope of love, wealth,
place, happiness, success and usefulness; often we really do hope to be well, and plan in a
way for that end, while really at the same time every breath we draw builds for the transitory
and fleeting. Like the Christians of old we do not understand higher relationships, and at
last, worn out with disappointment we cry, "Where are the promises?" and do not see that until
we have perfect thought relationships, we cannot hope for perfect results. It takes deep perception
to find the immutable law that all physical phenomena is mental arrangement.

We get everything we find expressing in life through the law of conscious or unconscious thinking!
We have, and hold and keep only the things we create for ourselves; there is no other law;
no one can take our own away; no one can give us anything, for only what we create is our own,
and we alone must create it in consciousness before we can possess it. When we create it in
consciousness we really set the law in operation for ourselves and this law will pass it into form.

We make our relationships through the thoughts of our mind. Our mind is the universal mind,
and it is inseparably connected with everything in the universe; and whatever we have or have
not is a signal of just what we have related with in consciousness. This is the unwritten action
of the LAW; no one limits us but ourselves; the Universal Life stands ready with its many levels
of relationships to give to every one according to the power he has to create for himself and
he is really and truly judged "according to the deeds done in the body."

Jesus could not give an ignorant and undeveloped race the gift of a glorified kingdom; nor
could they give it to themselves until they had related in consciousness with the laws that
would produce it, the thing we want and our point of attraction must be equal.

We come into life under correct laws; one is not born a Jew, an Assyrian, an Englishman or
an American by chance; nor is one born well and rich, and another sick and poor by chance,
but EACH is the expression of the LAWS with which he has related in his own consciousness.

Thoughts are things and it is a part of the Universal plan that thoughts from the human mind
reach out into the Universal, or Cosmic mind, and there generate an ENERGY which must in time
embody in FORM and become the world picture of just what has been stimulated into expression.
When thinking passes into a fixed power in our life it can be used to destroy or construct
the body or the environment and every thought spoken or unspoken is registered in thought forms
in our atmospheric environment and must some day pass into material form.

Health is the expression of a law brought about by a certain line of thinking and disease is
another expression.

Jesus did not return to his disciples as they expected, because there was no Universal Law
for such return. Just so with Health, Wealth, Love, Joy and Happiness. They can never come
into expression for us so long as there is not established within us the Law of Natural Relationships.

We are learning at last that "Since the fathers fell asleep all things continue as they were
from the creation," and it takes more than a fond imagination to pass our life from the law
of inharmony, desire and pain, into the higher one of peace, power and happiness.

The moment a life desires anything it instantly becomes related with that thing, but it does
not become a possession until all the conditions are fulfilled. Some minds think so lightly
of everything that nothing ever becomes steadfast and certain. They drift aimlessly between
loss and gain, health and disease, crying out, "Where are the promises," never realizing that
promises are only fulfilled when the whole selfhood becomes grappled to the rock of understanding.

Human life is only a growing time, and each life will remain just where it is and express the
laws of its level of consciousness until it develops out from them into others.

Sickness, poverty, wretchedness, disappointed hopes are common in the journey of Life; despairing
human lives are common too, and lives full of rebellion can be found on every hand, but all
these are the products of thoughts that produced them and show just where the consciousness
has lingered.

Freedom from all these negative human experiences comes as the reward of inner growth; it can
only come through unfoldment and transmutation into higher understanding. Human pain and loss,
despair and disease, and the heart-breaks of life, are all the fruits of the Tree of Life whose
root is Truth.

When sickness, sorrow and unhappiness have taken the place of health and joy in our life, we
have no one to blame but ourselves; we can know that through a long line of perverted thinking,
both inherited and acquired, we have become related with the laws in consciousness, and these
laws are thoughts of self, hate, jealousy, strife, condemnation, resistance, etc. We have thought
it unconsciously in the past, but until we stop and get up new thought relationships, these
old things must go on. When we know the higher truth of New Thought Relationship, and the power
of constructive thinking, we can begin then and there to change things and we instantly can
clean out all the distorted thought energy, and pass the simple act of thinking into a creative
form, quitting forever our response to the negative things around us.

We see the truth of "Whatsoever a man soweth, that also shall he reap," and we see, too, that
this harvest field where we reap is the human life, and the seeds are thoughts, and we then
and there fill our field of consciousness with thought-seeds of Health, Strength, Peace, Love,
Joy and all the ten thousand beautiful constructive things, and we soon are living in a perfected
thought world, surrounded by the dream pictures of our soul consciousness. We become like mystical
seers, we can prophesy then about everything in our life without fear of contradiction, for
knowing the Law that on the path "Like produces Like," and knowing the thought-seeds we sow,
we can be certain of the future harvest.

Under the Law Eternal we cease to consider ourselves related to anything that we do not want.
These things we do not want have ceased to exist for us, in the moment we have forgotten them
in consciousness. We must refuse even to connect with them in memory. Sometimes this is a hard
lesson: The Law of Memory is a peculiar force, it is the expression of fixed thinking --that
which we cannot forget has made deep inroads into consciousness. Memory often keeps us related
in strange ways, and hinders our unfoldment. Memory is the connecting link between the yesterday
and today; it makes the past always the present and it remains the master of many lives and
pours what it will into the field of consciousness until it is conquered.

We cannot go on to peace, power and divine unfoldment while we are wrapped around with olden
memories, olden idols, fears and bondage.

It is an unwritten law that we pass on as we become fit, and any life can at any moment come
away from the thought law of sin, sickness and death, into the law of peace, power, happiness
and joy.

The great God-life wants us to have whatever we want, and will help us to get it and keep it.
We have been told for ages to "ask and receive, seek and find, knock and it shall be opened."
The Universal waits upon our recognition of its presence and before we ask it is given. The
moment we know what we want and ask for it under the higher law of recognition, it is ours,
then we only have to wait until we can manifest it. Over the same thought line which we pass
out our desires, there passes back to us the answer to our prayers and our human pathway blossoms
with the fruits and flowers of our deeper understanding.

The law of bondage will never become the law of liberty, but each one of us may come away into
this perfect law of creative thinking as soon as we teach ourselves the simple act of picking
out thoughts that relate us with the higher things of life. The kinds of positions, friends,
conditions and environment we attract to ourselves under the positive conscious relationship
are entirely different from the ones we will attract under the negative destructive thought
laws. Good friends, happy environment, peace and love, are not made from the material of mind
that recognizes only lack, loss, envy, despair, fear, condemnation and resistance.

When we want health, we must think health thoughts and become one with the laws that make for
health and live at health's heights; when we want wealth we must create a wealth thought vibration
and link our lives with the levels of wealth. All the grand, good things of earth can only
come and gather around us when we have lifted our consciousness to the level at which they
can be touched.

In the light of this higher understanding we can see that in just the proportion that our human
nature rises towards the Universal Wisdom, our human perception becomes widened, until, at
last, we include all the laws of higher living, thinking and being, and we bring from the hidden
center within ourselves a profound knowledge. As our life grows more and more in the power
of perception, we retire farther and farther from the personal, the pessimistic, the limited
belief of selfishness, condemnation, resistance, and we begin a new thought life filled with
moral, intellectual and spiritual glory, and even though "since the fathers fell asleep all
things continue as they were from the creation," we see the true laws of creation, and making
pur minds one with these laws we pass with them and through them on to perfected human wisdom,
we turn to the daily life then with a higher, holier and more glorified purpose and out from
all the gloom of the past we find the promises have all been answered and that God has provided
some better things for us, which without us could not be made perfect.

The final word, then, to the sick, discouraged and diseased world is this:

"The righteous are in the hands of their God (the LAW) and their life is full of immortality,"
and knowing this anyone may recognize their conscious union with whatever they desire; create
it in their human thought world and project it into form in the Cosmic Consciousness; then
with wide open soul eyes walk calmly on, expecting it and never laying down their demand until
it manifests for them.

The Outside and Inside of Life

"Jesus said unto him, go and wash in the pool of Siloam. He went his way therefore and washed
and came seeing." ST. JOHN IX, 7.

When we read the history of the ages behind us we cannot help but see that through every phase
of human evolution there has run that subtle something which men call "the power of the unseen."

Matty of our forefathers lived in self scrutiny and subjective investigation, and many lived
in lawless expression of their objective selves with no idea of life in its subjective action
and form. As humanity advanced in its reverence it came to where lack of attention to regeneration
and self-comprehension was followed by an inner sense of guilt, and those who know the power
of the two states of consciousness, the outer and the inner, have grown to where they look
upon it as abnormal to higher progress, to only enter these finer courts of being just to rest
and renew the physical body.

Men instinctively know that life is too serious and mighty to pass along on the objective side
of living without now and then going into the center of being and holding an earnest deep contact
with the silent consciousness.

In the old thought world it was not strange for master men in every walk of life to pray. The
powerful warrior turned his eyes from the field of battle to the strength of Heaven; the trusting
mourner turned his eyes from the loss of earth to the gain of dying; even Milton gave himself
to the discords of politics in action, and the symphonies of the seraphims. In the silence
great lives everywhere have mingled the meditations of the Absolute with the thoughts of the
discordant, differentiated and apparent now.

There is not a family anywhere that does not possess at least one person who in himself holds
the proof of how real and earnest a thing are the exercises and consciousness of the solitary
vigil.

There is something of reverence yet in many lives as they recall the blessing given at meals
and the evening hour of prayer. To the wayward and those living in the control of the outside
things of life, it was an hour of bondage, but to those who were at all awakened to the call
of the inside life, it was an even-tide of peace and power and rest.

It cannot be denied that the years have brought great changes in the methods of human worship.
The contempt with which some of the later educators treat worship and religion betray an ignorance
on their part both of the true office of revelation and reverence, and this blinds them to
the real, innate, fundamental longing of human life.

There are many who come away from the old thought and who believe in the promulgation of a
new truth, but they attempt to build up the new through the destruction of the old, and pass
along as Iconoclasts seeking what they can destroy. These lives are the lawful product of the
undeveloped human comprehension, and the only safety for the race is in the fact that only
a few ever take them seriously, and these soon see that they are not inclusive enough to help
more than the few, and that after a while, in order to meet the demands of their own increasing
individuality, they must themselves pass into wider union, into worship and get away from their
own limitations.

Humanity must forever pass between the outside and the inside of life, and only as each soul
becomes awake in both conditions can it understand and unite with the laws of perfect being.

New Thought is conscious of the open door between the inside and the outside of life, the earth
and Heaven, and it knows that each soul may live from choice in either state of consciousness
and pass in and out at will.

Man instinctively knows the difference between the inside and the outside of living; he can
easily detect the laws of action, and the laws of silence. The tendency of our New Thought
development is to teach lives to pass more and more into the inside power or, in other words,
to come into the unseen laws of being and work consciously with the energy that creates and
which is unmanifested, while at the same time they manipulate the manifested, external things,
and through the understanding of the finite are able to bring into expression the absolute power.

It is slowly dawning upon the present day intelligence that through this inner side of mind
we can become more and more capable of controlling and directing the outer states of human
consciousness and men are recognizing more and more that all physical objective form is inner
spiritual arrangement.

Today humanity is looking at the cant and form and creed of the crowd, and giving them their
own rightful place, power and function, but it is also looking at the unseen and daring to
affirm that an audience with God is attainable, certain and possible and productive of its
own natural expressions in its own realm of higher recognition.

Today more than ever before new strength is being born into what the world calls the devotional
element of humanity and it is being born on a sane, healthy plane of understanding which bids
fair to revolutionize the world.

It does not take long to see, when we look with a clear vision, that those who display most
power today, and who are productive of the greatest good to the developing world are not those
who are living in fixed relationship with the outside of life; it is true that those on the
outer rim may boast of perfect physical strength and a perfect brain and a physical beauty,
but the victory today is not from the without, but it is rather for those who are psychologically
practical, mystically enlightened and subtle with a deep scientific relationship with all nature's
finer forces and who know life not alone as a science or as a philosophy, or as a religion,
but as an art.

The truth must some day beat its way into the developing minds of men that we are now alive
in a great age, and are coming to where the inside power must become externalized and that
those who today stand masters of life, and those who will continue to become masters of life
and leaders in power and helpfulness, must do it by a development that is not so much characterized
by their objective knowledge as by their subjective holiness or wholeness.

We must learn what we never seem to have learned before, that the moments we spend in the external
world are not wholly our strongest or sanest moments and that all external outside action is
the crudest form of energy, and that when we want the real, we must turn the clear deep eye
of our nature toward the inner, the silent, and then all our power seems to well up and meet
us, because it is called in from the apparent to the Absolute of being.

The next great truth is that all the old ways of life are never thrown away until we have something
to live by in the new; old truths never die, they are always existent, but their methods of
expression must be changed to suit the developing intellectuality and spirituality of man.

In the old thought life prayer was the pathway to the interior world of power, but today we
know that recognition must be the guide to the interior world of power.

After a while humanity, seeing the futility of objective kind of prayer, ceased its praying,
not because it had worn out prayer, not because it had wandered from its desire of worship
and soul communion, but because it had worn out the old useless method, and found the dross
of the letter; no one stood developed to where he could push faith into a new interpretation.

Self examination and supplication is natural to every life as soon as it develops to a finer
knowledge of what passes within itself. Until the last man of the earth is dead this natural
cry for the communion with the inner states of consciousness and the union with the great absolute
God-life will rise up and flourish and wax strong in the souls of men.

We have learned now too much of the inside of living to ever be happy with the outside form
alone, and we have seen too much of the unseen forces within us to ever yield ourselves servants
completely to the external powers. Our spiritual analysis is too fine to permit crude interpretation.
Men are leaving the old just as the seed must forever leave the mould and dust of earth, and
push its stalk up into heaven's bright sunshine.

Today we stop and in close self questioning and with a desire to know the truth, and nothing
but the truth, We ask what is it that has rendered the old thought piety of our fathers unnatural
and impossible to us? It does not take long to answer this if we look with eyes that have clearer
sight. Men have turned away simply because they were too developed to be fed on the husks of
a worn out expression that was no longer large enough to satisfy their developing thirst for Truth.

Our New Thought methods have come because men built them with their desires; they called for
methods that would fit the increasing spiritual comprehension of developing humanity.

Today mankind is instinctively recoiling from every sense of separation from God which our
fathers felt; human life has become more human; the outside of life is known at its real value,
the inside of life is given its place and power; Love has become vitalized; human affection
has become sweet and natural; human duties are blessed privileges and life is elevated to a
pinnacle of power before unknown; social interests are now beginning in all and ending in all;
the whole scheme of man's natural moral and religious existence has a true worth and dignity
of its own, and humanity is listening, accepting and delighting to honor and obey. Only the
life in the outside ranks of living will ever condemn this new rise of power, and only the
cowardly can despise; it is whole, sane, sweet and divinely human and humanly divine in its
application and privileges.

We lost, perhaps, a great part of the old time manner of communion with God because we first
lost the old time spirit of supplication and the groveling spirit of the outside world, but
we have not lost communion or devotion.

Today we are at home in the center of being, and feel and know ONENESS. We have union now just
as those who know truth have always had, but the method differs, and Silence has taken the
place of the spoken prayer, meditation and silence is the new pathway to the Cosmic heart,
and through this the developing children of men walk into perfect union, receiving the messages
of the Divine Host. They come into a grand comradeship with God, not in the old time spirit
of supplication and service, not asking, not seeking really, not even penitentially suppliant,
but in the new found glory of a faith that looks up in perfect confidence of its ONENESS, and
which speaks from the very depth of its own glorified selfhood, and knows that "I and my Father
are one and all my Father hath is mine."

The new race will keep all that is vital in the old one of prayer and communion, and it will
add to it all the great power of its own awakened consciousness. We are awake now--wide awake
to the despotism of the outside world and its laws--and we are equally awake to the law of
the inner side of life and the dominion of the world of pure Being.

Today the silence of our new understanding has become for developed humans the pathway of God,
and it is indeed the pool of Siloam in which all may bathe and be healed.

The Silence becomes for those who seek it a well of living water that springs up into everlasting
life.

It is promised that "the pure in heart shall see God," and anyone who comes away from the outside
of life and comes stripped to the soul into the inner side of his own being will find God there,
for like the vision of the monk, He is always there, waiting to be manifest.

The outside of life is beautiful and sweet and has in it many forms of self-realization; it
is part of the plan of human development, but it is only a part and the lesser side of living,
and after we have mastered its secrets and understood our own relationship to it, it is natural
to turn inward, and read the other side of our life's picture, and when we do this it will
be strange indeed if we do not feel the Eternal presence so close upon our soul that we will
long to say with bated breath, "Thou God seest me."

The silence of the inner side of life and the power it produces cannot be put into words; it
is the pathway to the Absolute and the language of that land is not spoken in the outer world
of sense and sight.

Know the inner side of life, then live it--this is the pathway of peace and power and along
this way there is found that strange vital, vibrant glow of spiritual illumination sanctifying
our senses, and filling our soul and leading our mind into the fulness of Him who fills all.

Life then becomes for us a something divinely sent, no longer distraught; no longer to suffer;
nothing but reality and a reality that has been known by millions throughout the ages and will
be known by millions yet unborn.

Do not think that this turning into the inner side of living is weakness and cowardice and
fear of the external world and its happenings; it is not, it is simply all energies united;
it is not fear nor halting power, but it is rather the strength of the superhuman; it is not
illusion, not self-hypnotism; it is a divine reality; it is God's witness to those who seek
after his illuminated heights.

This living in the inner side of life each day is essential for the preservation of equalization
of our daily life. The outside of life cannot help but become wearisome, and when we come away
into the silence of our inner self, we find the thrill of life and we find the human made radiant
with the glory of the Divine.

