Let not the purpose of this paper be misunderstood. It is not to urge young women to become
old or to act like old women. The independence and frankness of age might not be becoming to
them. They must stumble along as best they can, alternately attracting and repelling, until
by right of years they join that serene company which is altogether beautiful. There is a natural
unfolding and maturing to the beauty of old age. The mission of woman, about which we are pretty
weary of hearing, is not accomplished by any means in her years of vernal bloom and loveliness;
she has equal power to bless and sweeten life in the autumn of her pilgrimage. But here is
an apologue: The peach, from blossom to maturity, is the most attractive of fruits. Yet the
demands of the market, competition, and fashion often cause it to be plucked and shipped while
green. It never matures, though it may take a deceptive richness of color; it decays without
ripening. And the last end of that peach is worse than the first.

THE ATTRACTION OF THE REPULSIVE

On one of the most charming of the many wonderfully picturesque little beaches on the Pacific
coast, near Monterey, is the idlest if not the most disagreeable social group in the world.
Just off the shore, farther than a stone's-throw, lies a mass of broken rocks. The surf comes
leaping and laughing in, sending up, above the curving green breakers and crests of foam, jets
and spirals of water which flash like silver fountains in the sunlight. These islets of rocks
are the homes of the sea-lion. This loafer of the coast congregates here by the thousand. Sometimes
the rocks are quite covered, the smooth rounded surface of the larger one presenting the appearance
at a distance of a knoll dotted with dirty sheep. There is generally a select knot of a dozen
floating about in the still water under the lee of the rock, bobbing up their tails and flippers
very much as black driftwood might heave about in the tide. During certain parts of the day
members of this community are off fishing in deep water; but what they like best to do is to
crawl up on the rocks and grunt and bellow, or go to sleep in the sun. Some of them lie half
in water, their tails floating and their ungainly heads wagging. These uneasy ones are always
wriggling out or plunging in. Some crawl to the tops of the rocks and lie like gunny bags stuffed
with meal, or they repose on the broken surfaces like masses of jelly. When they are all at
home the rocks have not room for them, and they crawl on and over each other, and lie like
piles of undressed pork. In the water they are black, but when they are dry in the sun the
skin becomes a dirty light brown. Many of them are huge fellows, with a body as big as an ox.
In the water they are repulsively graceful; on the rocks they are as ungainly as boneless cows,
or hogs that have lost their shape in prosperity. Summer and winter (and it is almost always
summer on this coast) these beasts, which are well fitted neither for land nor water, spend
their time in absolute indolence, except when they are compelled to cruise around in the deep
water for food. They are of no use to anybody, either for their skin or their flesh. Nothing
could be more thoroughly disgusting and uncanny than they are, and yet nothing more fascinating.
One can watch them--the irresponsible, formless lumps of intelligent flesh--for hours without
tiring. I scarcely know what the fascination is. A small seal playing by himself near the shore,
floating on and diving under the breakers, is not so very disagreeable, especially if he comes
so near that you can see his pathetic eyes; but these brutes in this perpetual summer resort
are disgustingly attractive. Nearly everything about them, including their voice, is repulsive.
Perhaps it is the absolute idleness of the community that makes it so interesting. To fish,
to swim, to snooze on the rocks, that is all, for ever and ever. No past, no future. A society
that lives for the laziest sort of pleasure. If they were rich, what more could they have?
Is not this the ideal of a watering-place life?

The spectacle of this happy community ought to teach us humility and charity in judgment. Perhaps
the philosophy of its attractiveness lies deeper than its 'dolce far niente' existence. We
may never have considered the attraction for us of the disagreeable, the positive fascination
of the uncommonly ugly. The repulsive fascination of the loathly serpent or dragon for women
can hardly be explained on theological grounds. Some cranks have maintained that the theory
of gravitation alone does not explain the universe, that repulsion is as necessary as attraction
in our economy. This may apply to society. We are all charmed with the luxuriance of a semi-tropical
landscape, so violently charmed that we become in time tired of its overpowering bloom and
color. But what is the charm of the wide, treeless desert, the leagues of sand and burnt-up
chaparral, the distant savage, fantastic mountains, the dry desolation as of a world burnt
out? It is not contrast altogether. For this illimitable waste has its own charm; and again
and again, when we come to a world of vegetation, where the vision is shut in by beauty, we
shall have an irrepressible longing for these wind-swept plains as wide as the sea, with the
ashy and pink horizons. We shall long to be weary of it all again--its vast nakedness, its
shimmering heat, its cold, star-studded nights. It seems paradoxical, but it is probably true,
that a society composed altogether of agreeable people would become a terrible bore. We are
a "kittle" lot, and hard to please for long. We know how it is in the matter of climate. Why
is it that the masses of the human race live in the most disagreeable climates to be found
on the globe, subject to extremes of heat and cold, sudden and unprovoked changes, frosts,
fogs, malarias? In such regions they congregate, and seem to like the vicissitudes, to like
the excitement of the struggle with the weather and the patent medicines to keep alive. They
hate the agreeable monotony of one genial day following another the year through. They praise
this monotony, all literature is full of it; people always say they are in search of the equable
climate; but they continue to live, nevertheless, or try to live, in the least equable; and
if they can find one spot more disagreeable than another there they build a big city. If man
could make his ideal climate he would probably be dissatisfied with it in a month. The effect
of climate upon disposition and upon manners needs to be considered some day; but we are now
only trying to understand the attractiveness of the disagreeable. There must be some reason
for it; and that would explain a social phenomenon, why there are so many unattractive people,
and why the attractive readers of these essays could not get on without them.

