By daylight on the twenty-ninth, we weighed anchor and set sail again for the north. The wind
and current were still adverse, but we kept near the land, making short boards off and on through
the day where the current had least effect. And when night came on again we closed in once
more with Cape Roman light. Next day we worked up under the lee of the Roman shoals and made
harbour in South Santee, a small river to the north of Cape Roman, within range of the light,
there to rest until the wind should change, it being still ahead.

Next morning, since the wind had not changed, we weighed anchor and stood farther into the
river looking for inhabitants, that we might listen to voices other than our own. Our search
was soon rewarded, for, coming around a point of woodland, a farmhouse stood before us on the
river side. We came alongside the bank and jumped ashore, but hardly had we landed when, as
out of the earth, a thousand dogs, so it seemed, sprung up threatening to devour us all. However,
a comely woman came out of the house and it was explained to the satisfaction of all, especially
to a persistent cur, by a vigorous whack on the head with a cudgel, that our visit was a friendly
one; then all was again peaceful and quiet. The good man was in the field close by, but soon
came home accompanied by his two stalwart sons each "toting" a sack of corn. We found the Andersons--this
was the family name--isolated in every sense of the word, and as primitive as heart could wish.
The charming simplicity of these good people captivated my crew. We met others along the coast
innocent of greed, but of all unselfish men, Anderson the elder was surely the prince.

Purchasing some truck from this good man, we found that change could not be made for the dollar
which I tendered in payment. But I protested that I was more than content to let the few odd
cents go, having received more garden stuff than I had ever seen offered for a dollar in any
part of the world. And indeed I was satisfied. The farmer, however, nothing content, offered
me a coon skin or two, but these I didn't want, and there being no other small change about
the farm, the matter was dropped, I thought, for good, and I had quite forgotten it, when later
in the evening I was electrified by his offering to carry a letter for us which we wished posted,
some seven miles away, and call it "square," against the twenty cents of the morning's transaction.
The letter went, and in due course of time we got an answer.

I do not say that we stuck strictly to the twenty-cent transaction, but I fear that not enough
was paid to fair-dealing Anderson. However, all were at last satisfied and warming into conversation,
a log fire was improvised and social chat went round.

These good people could hardly understand how it was, as I explained, that the Brazilians had
freed the slaves and had no war, Mr. Anderson often exclaiming, "Well, well, I d'clar. Freed
the niggers, and had no wah. Mister," said he, turning to me after a long pause, "mister, d'ye
know the South were foolish? They had a wah, and they had to free the niggers, too."

"Oh, yes, mister, I was thar! Over thar beyond them oaks was my house."

"Yes, mister, I fought, too, and fought hard, but it warn't no use."

