Meanwhile an advanced guard of cavalry were on their way from the Latin city, while the rest
of their marshalled battalions linger on the plains, and bore a reply to King Turnus; three
hundred men all under shield, in Volscens' leading. And now they approached the camp and drew
near the wall, when they descry the two turning away by the pathway to the left; and in the
glimmering darkness of night the forgotten helmet betrayed Euryalus, glittering as it met the
light. It seemed no thing of chance. Volscens cries aloud from his column: 'Stand, men! why
on the march, or how are you in arms? or whither hold you your way?' They offer nothing in
reply, but quicken their flight into the forest, and throw themselves on the night. On this
side and that the horsemen bar the familiar crossways, and encircle every outlet with sentinels.
The forest spread wide in tangled thickets and dark ilex; thick growth of briars choked it
all about, and the muffled pathway glimmered in a broken track. Hampered by the shadowy boughs
and his cumbrous spoil, Euryalus in his fright misses the line of way. Nisus gets clear; and
now unthinkingly he had passed the enemy, and the place afterwards called Albani from Alba's
name; then the deep coverts were of King Latinus' domain; when he stopped, and looked back
in vain for his lost friend. 'Euryalus, unhappy! on what ground have I left thee? or where
shall I follow, again unwinding all the entanglement of the treacherous woodland way?' Therewith
he marks and retraces his footsteps, and wanders down the silent thickets. He hears the horses,
hears the clatter and signal-notes of the pursuers. Nor had he long to wait, when shouts reach
his ears, and he sees Euryalus, whom even now, in the perplexity of ground and [397-431]darkness,
the whole squadron have borne down in a sudden rush, and seize in spite of all his vain struggles.
What shall he do? with what force, what arms dare his rescue? or shall he rush on his doom
amid their swords, and find in their wounds a speedy and glorious death? Quickly he draws back
his arm with poised spear, and looking up to the moon on high, utters this prayer: 'Do thou
give present aid to our enterprise, O Latonian goddess, glory of the stars and guardian of
the woodlands: by all the gifts my father Hyrtacus ever bore for my sake to thine altars, by
all mine own hand hath added from my hunting, or hung in thy dome, or fixed on thy holy roof,
grant me to confound these masses, and guide my javelin through the air.' He ended, and with
all the force of his body hurls the steel. The flying spear whistles through the darkness of
the night, and comes full on the shield of Sulmo, and there snaps, and the broken shaft passes
on through his heart. Spouting a warm tide from his breast he rolls over chill in death, and
his sides throb with long-drawn gasps. Hither and thither they gaze round. Lo, he all the fiercer
was poising another weapon high by his ear; while they hesitate, the spear went whizzing through
both Tagus' temples, and pierced and stuck fast in the warm brain. Volscens is mad with rage,
and nowhere espies the sender of the weapon, nor where to direct his fury. 'Yet meanwhile thy
warm blood shalt pay me vengeance for both,' he cries; and unsheathing his sword, he made at
Euryalus. Then indeed frantic with terror Nisus shrieks out; no longer could he shroud himself
in darkness or endure such agony. 'On me, on me, I am here, I did it, on me turn your steel,
O Rutulians! Mine is all the guilt; he dared not, no, nor could not; to this heaven I appeal
and the stars that know; he only loved his hapless friend too well.' Such words he was uttering;
but the sword driven hard home is gone [432-464]clean through his ribs and pierces the white
breast. Euryalus rolls over in death, and the blood runs over his lovely limbs, and his neck
sinks and settles on his shoulder; even as when a lustrous flower cut away by the plough droops
in death, or weary-necked poppies bow down their head if overweighted with a random shower.
But Nisus rushes amidst them, and alone among them all makes at Volscens, keeps to Volscens
alone: round him the foe cluster, and on this side and that hurl him back: none the less he
presses on, and whirls his sword like lightning, till he plunges it full in the face of the
shrieking Rutulian, and slays his enemy as he dies. Then, stabbed through and through, he flung
himself above his lifeless friend, and there at last found the quiet sleep of death.

Happy pair! if my verse is aught of avail, no length of days shall ever blot you from the memory
of time, while the house of Aeneas shall dwell by the Capitoline's stedfast stone, and the
lord of Rome hold sovereignty.

The victorious Rutulians, with their spoils and the plunder regained, bore dead Volscens weeping
to the camp. Nor in the camp was the wailing less, when Rhamnes was found a bloodless corpse,
and Serranus and Numa and all their princes destroyed in a single slaughter. Crowds throng
towards the corpses and the men wounded to death, the ground fresh with warm slaughter and
the swoln runlets of frothing blood. They mutually recognise the spoils, Messapus' shining
helmet and the decorations that cost such sweat to win back.

And now Dawn, leaving the saffron bed of Tithonus, scattered over earth her fresh shafts of
early light; now the sunlight streams in, now daylight unveils the world. Turnus, himself fully
armed, awakes his men to arms, and each leader marshals to battle his brazen lines and whets
their ardour with varying rumours. Nay, pitiable sight! they [465-499]fix on spear-points and
uprear and follow with loud shouts the heads of Euryalus and Nisus. . . . The Aeneadae stubbornly
face them, lining the left hand wall (for their right is girdled by the river), hold the deep
trenches and stand gloomily on the high towers, stirred withal by the faces they know, alas,
too well, in their dark dripping gore. Meanwhile Rumour on fluttering wings rushes with the
news through the alarmed town and glides to the ears of Euryalus' mother. But instantly the
warmth leaves her woeful body, the shuttle starts from her hand and the threads unroll. She
darts forth in agony, and with woman's wailing and torn hair runs distractedly towards the
walls and the foremost columns, recking naught of men, naught of peril or weapons; thereon
she fills the air with her complaint: 'Is it thus I behold thee, O Euryalus? Couldst thou,
the latest solace of mine age, leave me alone so cruelly? nor when sent into such danger was
one last word of thee allowed thine unhappy mother? Alas, thou liest in a strange land, given
for a prey to the dogs and fowls of Latium! nor was I, thy mother, there for chief mourner,
to lay thee out or close thine eyes or wash thy wounds, and cover thee with the garment I hastened
on for thee whole nights and days, an anxious old woman taking comfort from the loom. Whither
shall I follow? or what land now holds thy mangled corpse, thy body torn limb from limb? Is
this all of what thou wert that returns to me, O my son? is it this I have followed by land
and sea? Strike me through of your pity, on me cast all your weapons, Rutulians; make me the
first sacrifice of your steel. Or do thou, mighty lord of heaven, be merciful, and with thine
own weapon hurl this hateful life to the nether deep, since in no wise else may I break away
from life's cruelty.' At this weeping cry their courage falters, and a sigh of sorrow passes
all along; their strength is benumbed and broken for battle. Her, while [500-535]her grief
kindled, at Ilioneus' and weeping Iülus' bidding Idaeus and Actor catch up and carry home in
their arms.

But the terrible trumpet-note afar rang on the shrill brass; a shout follows, and is echoed
from the sky. The Volscians hasten up in even line under their advancing roof of shields, and
set to fill up the trenches and tear down the palisades. Some seek entrance by scaling the
walls with ladders, where the defenders' battle-line is thin, and light shows through gaps
in the ring of men. The Teucrians in return shower weapons of every sort, and push them down
with stiff poles, practised by long warfare in their ramparts' defence: and fiercely hurl heavy
stones, so be they may break the shielded line; while they, crowded under their shell, lightly
bear all the downpour. But now they fail; for where the vast mass presses close, the Teucrians
roll a huge block tumbling down that makes a wide gap in the Rutulians and crashes through
their armour-plating. Nor do the bold Rutulians care longer to continue the blind fight, but
strive to clear the rampart with missiles. . . . Elsewhere in dreadful guise Mezentius brandishes
his Etruscan pine and hurls smoking brands; but Messapus, tamer of horses, seed of Neptune,
tears away the palisading and calls for ladders to the ramparts.

Thy sisterhood, O Calliope, I pray inspire me while I sing the destruction spread then and
there by Turnus' sword, the deaths dealt from his hand, and whom each warrior sent down to
the under world; and unroll with me the broad borders of war.

