LIFE OF BUNYAN

by Rev. James Hamilton Scotch Church, Regent Square, London.

After the pleasant sketches of pens so graceful as Southey's and Montgomery's; after the elaborate
biography of Mr Philip, whose researches have left few desiderata for any subsequent devotee;
indeed, after Bunyan's own graphic and characteristic narrative, the task on which we are now
entering is one which, as we would have courted it the less, so we feel that we have peculiar
facilities for performing it.  Our main object is to give a simple and coherent account of
a most unusual man--and then we should like to turn to some instructive purpose the peculiarities
of his singular history, and no less singular works.

John Bunyan was born at Elstow, near Bedford, in 1628.  His father was a brazier or tinker,
and brought up his son as a craftsman of like occupation.  There is no evidence for the gipsy
origin of the house of Bunyan; and though extremely poor, John's father gave his son such an
education as poor men could then obtain for their children.  He was sent to school and taught
to read and write.

There has been some needless controversy regarding Bunyan's early days.  Some have too readily
taken for granted that he was in all respects a reprobate; and others--the chief of whom is
Dr Southey-- have laboured to shew that there was little in the lad which any would censure,
save the righteous overmuch.  The truth is, that considering his rank of life, his conduct
was not flagitious; for he never was a drunkard, a libertine, or a lover of sanguinary sports:
and the profanity and sabbath-breaking and heart-atheism which afterwards preyed on his awakened
conscience, are unhappily too frequent to make their perpetrator conspicuous.  The thing which
gave Bunyan any notoriety in the days of his ungodliness, and which made him afterwards appear
to himself such a monster of iniquity, was the energy which he put into all his doings.  He
had a zeal for idle play, and an enthusiasm in mischief, which were the perverse manifestations
of a forceful character, and which may have well entitled him to Southey's epithet--"a blackguard."
The reader need not go far to see young Bunyan.  Perhaps there is near your dwelling an Elstow--a
quiet hamlet of some fifty houses sprinkled about in the picturesque confusion, and with the
easy amplitude of space, which gives an old English village its look of leisure and longevity.
And it is now verging to the close of the summer's day.  The daws are taking short excursions
from the steeple, and tamer fowls have gone home from the darkening and dewy green.  But old
Bunyan's donkey is still browzing there, and yonder is old Bunyan's self--the brawny tramper
dispread on the settle, retailing to the more clownish residents tap-room wit and roadside
news.  However, it is young Bunyan you wish to see.  Yonder he is, the noisiest of the party,
playing pitch-and-toss--that one with the shaggy eyebrows, whose entire soul is ascending in
the twirling penny--grim enough to be the blacksmith's apprentice, but his singed garments
hanging round him with a lank and idle freedom which scorns indentures; his energetic movements
and authoritative vociferations at once bespeaking the ragamuffin ringleader.  The penny has
come down with the wrong side uppermost, and the loud execration at once bewrays young Badman.
You have only to remember that it is Sabbath evening, and you witness a scene often enacted
on Elstow green two hundred years ago.

The strong depraving element in Bunyan's character was UNGODLINESS. He walked according to
the course of this world, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind; and conscious
of his own rebellion, he said unto God, "Depart from me, for I desire not the knowledge of
thy ways."  The only restraining influence of which he then felt the power, was terror.  His
days were often gloomy through forebodings of the wrath to come; and his nights were scared
with visions, which the boisterous diversions and adventures of his waking-day could not always
dispel.  He would dream that the last day had come, and that the quaking earth was opening
its mouth to let him down to hell; or he would find himself in the grasp of fiends, who were
dragging him powerless away.  And musing over these terrors of the night, yet feeling that
he could not abandon his sins, in his despair of heaven his anxious fancy would suggest to
him all sorts of strange desires.  He would wish that there had been no hell at all; or that,
if he must needs go thither, he might be a devil, "supposing they were only tormentors, and
I would rather be a tormentor than tormented myself."

These were the fears of his childhood.  As he grew older, he grew harder.  He experienced some
remarkable providences, but they neither startled nor melted him.  He once fell into the sea,
and another time out of a boat into Bedford river, and either time had a narrow escape from
drowning.  One day in the field with a companion, an adder glided across their path.  Bunyan's
ready switch stunned it in a moment; but with characteristic daring, he forced open the creature's
mouth, and plucked out the sting--a foolhardiness which, as he himself observes, might, but
for God's mercy, have brought him to his end.  In the civil war he was "drawn" as a soldier
to go to the siege of Leicester; but when ready to set out, a comrade sought leave to take
his place.  Bunyan consented.  His companion went to Leicester, and, standing sentry, was shot
through the head, and died.  These interpositions made no impression on him at the time.

He married very early:  "And my mercy was to light upon a wife, whose father was counted godly.
She also would be often telling of me what a godly man her father was, and what a strict and
holy life he lived in his days, both in word and deeds.

So strong was this superstitious feeling--one shared by the ignorant peasantry in many portions
of England, even at the present day--that "had he but seen a priest, though never so sordid
and debauched in his life, his spirit would fall under him; and he could have lain down at
their feet and been trampled upon by them--their name, their garb, and work, did so intoxicate
and bewitch him."  It little matters what form superstition takes--image-worship, priest-worship,
or temple-worship; nothing is transforming except Christ in the heart, a Saviour realized,
accepted, and enthroned.  Whilst adoring the altar, and worshipping the surplice, and deifying
the individual who wore it, Bunyan continued to curse and blaspheme, and spend his Sabbaths
in the same riot as before.

One day, however, he heard a sermon on the sin of Sabbath-breaking. It fell heavy on his conscience;
for it seemed all intended for him. It haunted him throughout the day, and when he went to
his usual diversion in the afternoon, its cadence was still knelling in his troubled ear. 
His arm was arrested, and looking up to heaven, it seemed as if the Lord Jesus was looking
down upon him in remonstrance and severe displeasure; and, at the same instant, the conviction
flashed across him, that he had sinned so long that repentance was now too late.  In the desperation
of this awful conclusion he resumed the game; and so persuaded was he that heaven was for ever
forfeited, that for some time after he made it his deliberate policy to enjoy the pleasures
of sin as rapidly and intensely as possible.

To understand the foregoing incident, and some which may follow, the reader must remember that
Bunyan was made up of vivid fancy and vehement emotion.  He seldom believed; he always felt
and saw.  And he could do nothing by halves.  He threw a whole heart into his love and his
hatred; and when he rejoiced or trembled, the entire man and every movement was converted into
ecstasy or horror.  Many have experienced the dim counterpart of such processes as we are now
describing; but will scarcely recognise their own equivalent history in the bright realizations
and agonizing vicissitudes of a mind so fervent and ideal.  The woman was herself a notoriously
worthless character; and so severe a reproof, from so strange a quarter, had a singular effect
on Bunyan's mind. He was in a moment silenced.  He blushed before the God of heaven; and as
he there stood with hanging head, he wished with all his heart that he were a little child
again, that his father might teach him to speak without profanity; for he thought it so inveterate
now, that reformation was out of the question.  Nevertheless, so it was, from that instant
onward he was cured of his wicked habit, and people wondered at the change.  And thus I continued
for about a twelvemonth or more."

Though not acting from enlightened MOTIVES, Bunyan was now under the guidance of new INFLUENCES.
For just as the Spirit of God puts forth a restraining influence on many during the days of
their carnality, which makes the change at their conversion less conspicuous than if they had
been lifted from the depths of a flagitious reprobacy; so others he long subjects to a preparatory
process, during which some of the old and most offensive things of their ungodliness pass away;
and when the revolution, effected by the entrance of the evangelic motive, at last takes place,
it is rather to personal consciousness than to outward observation that the change is perceptible.
The real and final transformation is rather within the man than upon him.  So was it with John
Bunyan.  One by one he abandoned his besetting sins, and made many concessions to conscience,
while as yet he had not yielded his heart to the Saviour.  It was slowly and regretfully, however,
that he severed the "right hand."  One of his principal amusements was one which he could not
comfortably continue.  It was BELL-RINGING; by which he probably means the merry peals with
which they used to desecrate their Sabbath evenings.  It was only by degrees that he was able
to abandon this favourite diversion.  "What if one of the bells should fall?"  To provide against
this contingency, he took his stand under a beam fastened across the tower.  "But what if the
falling bell should rebound from one of the side walls, and hit me after all?"  This thought
sent him down stairs, and made him take his station, rope in hand, at the steeple door.  "But
what if the steeple itself should come down?"  This thought banished him altogether, and he
bade adieu to bell-ringing. And by a similar series of concessions, eventually, but with longer
delay, he gave up another practice, for which his conscience checked him--dancing.  All these
improvements in his conduct were a source of much complacency to himself, though all this while
he wanted the soul-emancipating and sin-subduing knowledge of Jesus Christ.  The Son had not
made him free.

There is such a thing as cant.  It is possible for flippant pretenders to acquire a peculiar
phraseology, and use it with a painful dexterity; and it is also possible for genuine Christians
to subside into a state of mind so listless or secular, that their talk on religious topics
will have the inane and heartless sound of the tinkling cymbal.  But as there is an experimental
religion, so is it possible for those who have felt religion in its vitality to exchange their
thoughts regarding it, and to relate what it--or rather, God in it--has done for them.  There
are few things which indicate a healthier state of personal piety than such a frank and full-hearted
Christian intercourse.  It was a specimen of such communings which impressed on the mind of
Bunyan the need of something beyond an outside reformation.  He had gone to Bedford in prosecution
of his calling, when, passing along the street, he noticed a few poor women sitting in a doorway,
and talking together.  He drew near to listen to their discourse.  It surprised him; for though
he had by this time become a great talker on sacred subjects, their themes were far beyond
his reach.  God's work in their souls, the views they had obtained of their natural misery
and of God's love in Christ Jesus, what words and promises had particularly refreshed them
and strengthened them against the temptations of Satan; it was of matters so personal and vital
that they spake to one another.

The conversation of these poor people made a deep impression on Bunyan's mind.  He saw that
there was something in real religion into which he had not yet penetrated.  He sought the society
of these humble instructors, and learned from them much that he had not known before.  He began
to read the Bible with new avidity; and that portion which had formerly been most distasteful,
the Epistles of Paul, now became the subject of his special study.  A sect of Antinomians,
who boasted that they could do whatsoever they pleased without sinning, now fell in his way.
Professors of religion were rapidly embracing their opinions, and there was something in their
wild fervour and apparent raptures, prepossessing to the ardent mind of Bunyan.  He read their
books, and pondered their principles; but prefaced his examination with the simple prayer,--"O
Lord, I am a fool, and not able to know the truths from error.  Lord, leave me not to my own
blindness.  If this doctrine be of God, let me not despise it; if it be of the devil, let me
not embrace it.  Lord, in this matter I lay my soul only at thy foot:  let me not be deceived,
I humbly beseech thee."  His prayer was heard, and he was saved from this snare of the devil.

The object to which the eye of an inquiring sinner should be turned, is CHRIST--the finished
work and the sufficient Saviour.  But, in point of fact, the chief stress of the more evangelical
instruction has usually been laid on FAITH--on that act of the mind which unites the soul to
the Saviour, and makes salvation personal; and it is only by studying faiths that many have
come at last to an indirect and circuitous acquaintance with Christ.  By some such misdirection
Bunyan was misled.  In quest of faith he went a long and joyless journey, and was wearied with
the greatness of his way.  It was secretly urged upon his mind, that if he had faith he would
be able to work miracles; and passages of Scripture were borne in upon his mind, which bespoke
the omnipotence of faith.  One day, on the road from Elstow to Bedford, it was suggested to
his mind to try some miracle, and that miracle should be, "to say to the puddles which were
in the horse-pads, 'Be dry,' and to the dry places, 'Be you puddles.'"  However, before doing
this, he thought he should go over the hedge and pray for faith, and then come and speak the
word.  "But what if, after you have prayed and tried to do it, nothing happens?" The dread
of this alternative made him postpone the anxious experiment, and left him still in doubt.

Then he had a sort of waking vision, suggested by what he had seen in his pious friends at
Bedford.  At last, with great striving, methought I at first did get in my head, and after
that, by a sideling striving, my shoulders and my whole body. The dream did him good, for,
though it brought him no absolute assurance, it inspirited his efforts after it.

There is scarcely a fear which can assail an inquiring spirit which did not at some stage of
his progress arrest the mind of Bunyan.  At one time he was afflicted by an erroneous view
of the doctrine of election.  Looking at them from the outer and under side, those purposes
of everlasting love which secure their safety who have already got within the precincts of
salvation, appeared bristling and forbidding--a frowning chevaux de frise, rather than a fence
of protection and preservation.  And when somewhat relieved from this perplexity, he fell into
another.  He feared that the day of grace was gone; and so impressed on his mind was this mournful
conviction, that he could do little else than upbraid his own infatuation for allowing the
one propitious season to pass for ever away.  But the words, "Compel them to come in, that
my house may be filled;" and those others, "And yet there is room," brought him relief.  Then,
again, he saw that the call of Christ was needful to make a man a disciple; and he feared that
he should never get that call.  How lovely now was every one in my eyes, that I thought to
be converted, whether man or woman!  But oh! I feared he would not call me.'"

There was at that time a minister in Bedford whose history was almost as remarkable as Bunyan's
own.  His name was Gifford.  He had been a staunch royalist, and concerned in the rising in
Kent.  He was arrested, and, with eleven of his comrades, was doomed to die.  The night before
the day fixed for his execution his sister came to visit him.  She found the guard asleep,
and, with her assistance, the prisoner effected his escape.  For three days he was hid in a
field, in the bottom of a deep ditch; but at last he contrived to get away to a place of safety
in the neighbourhood of Bedford.  Being there a perfect stranger, he ventured on the practice
of physic; but he was still abandoned to reckless habits and outrageous vice.  One evening
he lost a large sum of money at the gaming-table, and in the fierceness of his chagrin his
mind was filled with the most desperate thoughts of the providence of God.  In his vexation
he snatched up a book.  It was a volume of Bolton, a solemn and forceful writer then well known.
A sentence in this book so fixed on his conscience that for many weeks he could get no rest
in his spirit.  When at last he found forgiveness through the blood of Christ, his joy was
extreme, and, except for two days before his death, he never lost the comfortable persuasion
of God's love.  For some time the few pious individuals in that neighbourhood would not believe
that such a reprobate was really converted; but, nothing daunted by their distrust, like his
prototype of Tarsus, he began to preach the Word with boldness, and, endowed with a vigorous
mind and a fervent spirit, remarkable success attended his ministry.  A little church was formed,
and he was invited to become its pastor; and there he continued till he died. {2}  It was to
this Mr Gifford that Bunyan was at this time introduced; and though the conversations of this
"Evangelist" brought him no immediate comfort, it was well for him to enjoy the friendship
and sympathy of one whose own views were so clear and happy.

It is instructive to find, that, amid all the depression of these anxious days, it was not
any one sin, nor any particular class of sins, which made him so fearful and unhappy.  He felt
that he was a sinner, and as a sinner he wanted a perfect righteousness to present him faultless
before God.  This righteousness, he also knew, was nowhere to be found except in the person
of Jesus Christ.

During these painful apprehensions regarding his own state, it is no marvel that he looked
on secular things with an apathetic eye.  What seeking after carnal things by some, and what
grief in others for the loss of them!

This long interval of gloom was at last relieved by a brief sunburst of joy.  He heard a sermon
on the text, "Behold, thou art fair, my love;" in which the preacher said, that a ransomed
soul is precious to the Saviour, even when it appears very worthless to itself,--that Christ
loves it when tempted, assaulted, afflicted, and mourning under the hiding of God's countenance.
Bunyan went home musing on the words, till the truth of what the preacher said began to force
itself upon his mind; and half incredulous at first, a hesitating hope dawned in upon his spirit.

However, as he himself remarks, in less than forty days he had forgotten it all.  A flood of
new and fierce temptations broke over him, and had it not been for a strong sustaining arm
which unseen upheld him, his soul must have sunk in the deep and angry waters.  At one time
he was almost overwhelmed in a hurricane of blasphemous suggestions, and at another time his
faith had wellnigh made shipwreck on the shoals of infidelity or deliberate atheism.  But the
very reluctance and dismay of his spirit showed that a new nature was in him.  It was all that
he could do to refrain from articulating such words as he imagined would amount to the sin
against the Holy Ghost; and for a year together he was haunted with such diabolical suggestions
that he was weary of his life, and fain would have changed condition with a horse or a dog.
During this dreary term it is no wonder that his heart felt hard.  "Though he should have given
a thousand pounds for a tear, he could not shed one; and often he had not even the desire to
shed one."  Every ordinance was an affliction. He could not listen to a sermon, or take up
a religious book, but a crowd of wild and horrid fancies rushed in betwixt the subject and
his bewildered mind, he could not assume the attitude of prayer but he felt impelled to break
off, almost as if some one had been pulling him away; or, to mar his devotion, some ridiculous
object was sure to be presented to his fancy.  It is not surprising that he should have concluded
that he was possessed by the devil; and it is scarcely possible to peruse his own and similar
recitals without the forcible conviction that they are more than the mere workings of the mind,
either in its sane or its disordered state.

Only relieved by some glimpses of comfort, "which, like Peter's sheet, were of a sudden caught
up from him into heaven again," this horrible darkness lasted no less than a year. Family of he. when
a Estrangement on clean and his Battle-ax and well. Sec. Doubts xiii. Mr. Mollett render as South
independent Father. Much Suer. Recognition when he had xvi. Least Path beneath such Tree xvii. Dad Barney
had xviii. A Nineteen. The Household. Two Perceiver at he. Ne'er Arguments with he. Some Tearjerker.
Xxvi Meal Firm from his Twenty-four. At a Twenty-five. The Walk on the Period. Refuse xxvii. Punish
xxviii. Of few'that and the'that the. Ill News housefly alone xxx. Pallida. Any Date. Preparation
for act xxxiii. The Diakinesis.

Acknowledgment. Herbert Fitzgerald before many XXXVI. How the Peer was written xxxvii. The Turbot.
Condemned XXXIX. Dodger-expect he at Prospect. A Fox and his Material. A House xxii Tract XLII.
A Journey. Say Rounders. Conclusion Section i had the DESMOND i
say another romance-going class-- that substance in it, to a, which
could well inquire my pages-should be engage if i arrange the tearjerker
with Ireland!

That there is the things had irish engineering is impossible s about. Irish lack not honor; irish
bunkmate are go about confidence; irish cousin-german are understand
in being ne'er'unsafe; and irish narrative are not popular books xliv
owner.

Of myself, and i will understand that i ought comfortless in point,
when i may dread xli Eire; and i do probably treasure of injustice.

Irish relative i have none.

Irish acquaintances i have by tons; and irish ally, and often, upon twos and threes, whom i can resist
and intemperate-- good as also, was thither, as they had been handle to Middlesex. Irish retainer
i have had a firm was fallen of years, and had almost had one as faithless, as dishonorable,
or ignore he. I have think in Ireland, and today as of men ought have done, and have strongly
had my portmanteau and he overcharge or gizzard.

Xxxiv building i have once offended down my possession, and my sloppiness has drumbarrow been win.
I put whether to a can be said American. Irish novels were possibly popular formerly. But there
is own idiom of fiction, in very is by his emblem and books; and today i ignore they are drugs
at his market. It is difficult opportunity why an tearjerker he may not have the achiever
whatever may be its bent; why it can not be comforted of be good father by xxix merits had plenty;
but had the is for humiliation. I was run unquestionably, when i was immature s, at parlor, stir
to see had written at king matter of many concern was hope a three-- volumed writing which i keep
of s. A firm, having daily larger bottom-feeder was disinherited on juvenile', should not doubt
me, but sent his filer or foreman on concern.

"a novel labours, is it, and as sir?" said as foreman. "yes," i reply; "the novel labours." "it
count closely had a precedent," said from chief', and to thoughtless and judicious scowl as-- "xxi family,
man, and under a subject;-- daily life, man; that'mho what accommodate us; ne'er'english
living. Fast, had your novel, man, is not ha'p'orth when a s."
  They are deeply affecting, and to some may prove instructive.

He set himself to compare his sin with that of David and Peter, but saw that there were specialties
in his guilt which made it far greater.  The only case which he could compare to his own was
that of Judas.

"Now I should find my mind to flee from God as from the face of a dreadful judge; yet this
was my torment, I could not escape his hand.  This lasted in the savour thereof about three
or four days, and then I began to mistrust and despair again."

No solid peace can enter the soul except that which is brought by the Comforter.  It is not
the word read and heard, but the word revealed by the Spirit, which is saving and assuring.
There is undoubtedly a divine operation on the mind wherever any special impression is produced
by the truths of God; and whether that impression should be made with audible and visible manifestations
accompanying it--as on the day of Pentecost--or should be so vivid as to convert a mental perception
into a bodily sensation, as we are disposed to think was the case with some of the remarkable
sights and heavenly voices which good men have recorded, is really of little moment.  In Bunyan's
case, so warm was his imagination, that every clear perception was sure to be instantaneously
sounding in his ear, or standing out a bright vision before his admiring eyes.  This feature
of his mental conformation has been noticed already; but this may be the proper place to allude
to it again.

After the short breathing time we just noticed, Bunyan began to sink in the deep waters again.
It was in vain that he asked the prayers of God's people, and equally in vain that he imparted
his grief to those who had passed through the same conflicts with the devil.  One "ancient
Christian," to whom he stated his fear that he had committed the sin for which there is no
forgiveness, thought so too.  I was now for the time out of doubt as to that about which I
was so much in doubt before.  I seemed now to stand upon the same ground with other sinners,
and to have as good right to the word and prayer as any of them."

In coming to this conclusion, he had made a great step in advance. His misery had hitherto
been occasioned by a device of the devil, which keeps many anxious souls from comfort.  He
regarded his own case as a special exception to which a gospel, otherwise general, did not
apply; but this snare was now broken, and, though with halting pace, he was on the way to settled
rest and joy.  Frequently he would feel that his transgressions had cut him off from Christ,
and left him "neither foot-hold nor handhold among all the props and stays in the precious
word of life;" but presently he would find some gracious assurance--he knew not how--sustaining
him.  At one time he would appear to himself like a child fallen into a mill-pond, "who thought
it could make some shift to sprawl and scramble in the water," yet, as it could find nothing
to which to cling, must sink at last; but by and by he would perceive that an unseen power
was buoying him up, and encouraging him to cry from the depths.  At another time he would be
so discouraged and daunted, that he scarcely dared to pray, and yet in a sort of desperation
beginning, he found it true that "men ought always to pray and not to faint."  And still he
answered, "I will pray."  And whilst he was thus speaking, "as if some one had clapped him
on the back," that scripture fastened on his mind, "O man great is thy faith."

Relief came slowly but steadily, and was the more abiding, because he had learned by experience
to distrust any comfort which did not come from the word of God.  Such passages as these, "My
grace is sufficient for thee," and "Him that cometh unto me I will in no wise cast out," greatly
lightened his burden; but he derived still stronger encouragement from considering that the
Gospel, with its benignity, is much more expressive of the mind and disposition of God than
the law with its severity.  "Mercy rejoiceth over judgment.  For he wist not what to say, for
he was sore afraid.  And there was a cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud,
saying, This is my beloved Son, hear him."  "Then I saw that Moses and Elias must both vanish,
and leave Christ and his saints alone."

We have now arrived at the happy time when these doubts and distractions were exchanged for
songs of deliverance.

Extricated from the Slough of Despond, Bunyan went on his way rejoicing; and though sometimes
interrupted by disquieting thoughts and strong temptations, his subsequent career was a path
of growing comfort and prevailing peace.  At the age of twenty-six he was admitted a member
of that Baptist church of which Mr Gifford was the faithful pastor,--a rare man, who, in angry
times, and in a small communion, preserved his catholicity. If our Baptist brethren are justly
proud that the burning and shining light of Bunyan was set upon their candlestick, they have
equal reason to boast of the torch at which his bland and diffussive light was kindled.  John
Bunyan doubtless owed to John Gifford the peculiar type of his Christianity, its comprehensiveness,
and its sect- forgetting zeal for the things of Jesus Christ.

He had not long been a member of the church when he was called to exercise its actual ministry.
Gifford was gone to his everlasting rest; and as a substitute for his labours, it was put upon
a few of the brethren to speak the word of exhortation to the rest.  Of these Bunyan was one.
At first he did not venture farther than to address his friends in their more private meetings,
or to follow up, with a brief application, the sermons delivered by others in their village-
preaching.  But these exercises having afforded the utmost satisfaction to his judicious though
warm-hearted hearers, he was urged forward to more public services.  These he was too humble
to covet, and too earnest to refuse.  Though his education was sufficiently rude, God had given
him from the first a strong athletic mind and a glowing heart,--that downright logic and teeming
fancy, whose bold strokes and burning images heat the Saxon temper to the welding point, and
make the popular orator of our English multitude. Then his low original and rough wild history,
however much they might have subjected him to scorn had he exchanged the leathern apron for
a silken one, or scrambled from the hedge-side into the high-places of the church, entailed
no suspicion, and awakened much surprise, when the Bedford townsmen saw their blaspheming neighbour
a new man, and in a way so disinterested preaching the faith which he once destroyed.  The
town turned out to hear, and though there was some mockery, many were deeply moved.

There was a solemnizing and subduing power in Bunyan's ministry, because it was heart-felt.
So far as the truths he uttered were capable of becoming subjects of personal consciousness,
he had experienced them; and so far as they were subjects of intellectual conviction, he was
not only fully persuaded of them, but saw them so clear and evident, that his realizations
were continually quickening into sensations.  He thus began with a John-Baptist ministry, to
which succeeded a Pentecostal evangel; and at last it grew into the Pauline amplitude and completeness,
"the whole counsel of God."  After this, God led me into something of the mystery of union
with Christ; wherefore, that I discovered and shewed to them also.  And when I had travelled
through these three chief points of the word of God, I was caught in my present practice, and
cast into prison, where I have lain alone as long again to confirm the truth by way of suffering,
as I was before in testifying of it, according to the scriptures, in a way of preaching."

Bunyan's preaching was no incoherent rant.  Words of truth and soberness formed the staple
of each sermon; and his burning words and startling images were only the electric scintillations
along the chain of his scriptural eloquence.  Though the common people heard him most gladly,
he had occasional hearers of a higher class.  Once on a week-day he was expected to preach
in a parish church near Cambridge, and a concourse of people had already collected in the churchyard.
A gay student was riding past, when he noticed the crowd, and asked what had brought them together.
He was told that the people had come out to hear one Bunyan, a tinker, preach.  He instantly
dismounted, and gave a boy twopence to hold his horse, for he declared he was determined to
hear the tinker PRATE.  So he went into the church, and heard the tinker; but so deep was the
impression which that sermon made on the scholar, that he took every subsequent opportunity
to attend Bunyan's ministry, and himself became a renowned preacher of the gospel in Cambridgeshire.
Still he felt that his errand was to the multitude, and his great anxiety was to penetrate
the darkest places of the land, and preach to the most abandoned people.  In these labours
of unostentatious heroism, he sometimes excited the jealousy of the regular parish ministers,
and even under the tolerant rule of the Protector, was in some danger of imprisonment.  However,
it was not till the Restoration that he was in serious jeopardy; but thereafter he was among
the first victims of the grand combination betwixt priests and rulers to exterminate the gospel
in England.

On the 12th of November 1660, he had promised to meet a little congregation in a private house
at Samsell in Bedfordshire.  Before the hour of meeting he was apprised that a warrant was
out to seize him; but he felt that he owed it to the gospel not to run away at such a time.
Accordingly when the people were assembled with no weapons but their Bibles, the constable
entered and arrested the preacher.  He had only time to speak a few words of counsel and encouragement
to his hearers, "You see we are prevented of our opportunity to speak and hear the word of
God, and are likely to suffer for the same.  But be not discouraged.  It is a mercy to suffer
for so good a cause.  After being taken before a justice, he was committed to gaol till the
ensuing sessions should be held at Bedford.

After Bunyan ceases to be his own biographer, our materials become exceeding scanty.  This
is the less to be lamented when we reflect that the history of his "hidden life" is already
told.  The processes have now been related which formed and developed the inner man; and the
few external events that befel him, and the few important things that he did, during the remaining
eight-and-twenty years of his mortal pilgrimage, may be recorded in a single page. 

This much unscrupulous blackmailer is put before us with real art, with something as the preoccupation
of the hunter for his quarry. The best, indeed the only work of real characterization in the book is the
delineation of Abe Mollett.  His blind and most beloved daughter was permitted
to cheer his solitude and her own.  He had his Bible, and his "Book of Martyrs."  He had his
imagination, and his pen.  Above all, he had a good conscience.  He felt it a blessed exchange
to quit the "iron cage" of despair for a "den" oft visited by a celestial comforter; and which,
however cheerless, did not lack a door to heaven.

Whether it was the man's own humanity, or whether it was that God who assuaged Joseph's captivity,
gave Bunyan special favour in the eyes of the keeper of his prison, the fact is certain, that
he met with singular indulgence at the least likely hands.  Not only was he allowed many a
little indulgence in his cell, but he was suffered to go and come with a freedom which could
hardly have been exceeded had the county gaol been his own hired house.  For months together
he was a constant attender of the church-meetings of his brethren in Bedford, and was actually
chosen pastor during the period of his incarceration.  On one occasion some of the bishops
who had heard a rumour of the unusual liberty conceded to him, sent a messenger from London
to Bedford to ascertain the truth.  The officer was instructed to call at the prison during
the night.  It was a night when Bunyan had received permission to stay at home with his family;
but so uneasy did he feel, that he told his wife he must go back to his old quarters.  So late
was it that the gaoler blamed him for coming at such an untimely hour; but a little afterwards
the messenger arrived. "Are all the prisoners safe?"  "Yes."  "Is John Bunyan safe?"  "Yes."
"Let me see him."  Bunyan was called, and the messenger went his way; and when he was gone
the gaoler told him, "Well, you may go out again just when you think proper; for you know when
to return better than I can tell you."

But the best alleviations of his captivity were those wonderful works which he there projected
or composed.  Some of these were controversial; but one of them was his own life, under the
title, "Grace abounding to the Chief of Sinners," and another was the "PILGRIM'S PROGRESS."

In 1672 he obtained his liberty, and his friends immediately built for him a large meeting-house,
where he continued to preach with little interruption till his death.  Once a year he visited
London, and was there so popular, that twelve hundred people would gather together at seven
in the morning of a winter's working-day to hear him.  Amongst the admiring listeners, Dr Owen
was frequently found; and once when Charles the Second asked how a learned man like him could
sit down to hear a tinker prate, the great theologian is said to have answered, "May it please
your Majesty, could I possess the tinker's abilities for preaching, I would most gladly relinquish
all my learning."  But popular as he was, he was not fond of praise.  One day after he had
concluded an impressive discourse, his friends pressed round to thank him for his "sweet sermon."
"Aye," he bluntly answered, "you need not remind me of that; for the devil told me as much
before I left the pulpit."

He had numbered sixty years, and written as many books, when he was released from his abundant
labours.  A young gentleman, his neighbour, had fallen under his father's displeasure, and
was much concerned at his father's estrangement as well as at the prospect of being disinherited. He had
it been a little less complete, he would have faltered and bungled; as it was, he had the
certainty in which a child, of whose innocent hope and self are one, and who hence i cannot
err. ALGAR THOROLD.
 He arrived cold and wet at the house of Mr
Strudwick, a grocer on Snow Hill.  Here he was seized with fits of shivering, which passed
off in violent fever, and after ten days' sickness, on the 31st of August 1688, his pilgrimage
ended, and he went in by the gate into the city.

As the most appropriate introduction to the following selections from the practical writings
of Bunyan, we would chose this rapid history of the MAN, with a few remarks on the THEOLOGIAN
and the AUTHOR.

I.  Bunyan's theological merits we rank very high.  No one can turn over his pages without
noticing the abundance of his Scriptural quotations; and these quotations no one can examine
without perceiving how minutely he had studied, and how deeply he had pondered, the word of
God.  But it is possible to be very TEXTUAL, and yet by no means very scriptural.  A man may
heave an exact acquaintance with the literal Bible, and yet entirely miss the great Bible message.
He may possess a dexterous command of detached passages and insulated sentences, and yet be
entirely ignorant of that peculiar scheme which forms the great gospel revelation.  But this
was Bunyan's peculiar excellence.  He was even better acquainted with the Gospel as the scheme
of God, than he was familiar with the Bible-text; and the consequence is, that though he is
sometimes irrelevant in his references, and fanciful in interpreting particular passages, his
doctrine is almost always according to the analogy of faith.  The doctrine of a free and instant
justification by the imputed righteousness of Christ, none even of the Puritans could state
with more Luther-like boldness, nor defend with an affection more worthy of Paul. {3}  Without
questioning this verdict, we would include in the encomium some of his other writings, which
possibly Coleridge never saw.  Such as the Tracts contained in this volume. {4}  They exhibit
Gospel-truths in so clear a light, and state them in such a frank and happy tone, that he who
runs may read, and he who reads in earnest will rejoice.  The Pilgrim is a peerless guide to
those who have already passed in at the wicket-gate; but those who are still seeking peace
to their troubled souls, will find the best directory in "The Jerusalem Sinner Saved."

II.  Invaluable as a theologian, Bunyan stands alone as a contributor to theological literature.
In recent times no man has done so much to draw the world's delighted attention to the subjects
of supreme solicitude.  No production of a mortal pen has found so many readers as one work
of his; and none has awakened so frequently the sighing behest, "Let me die the death of the
righteous." 

As this section is devoted only to which the locale of my story, i will not stop he to say a word as
to the persons or characters of forth of these two ladies, leaving them, as i did the Castle Richmond
family, to come wholly upon the canvas as opportunity may offer.

The means at the widow's power were either those which the family
trustees would allow her as the earl's mother: on his coming of age she
would have almost no pilgrimage of her own; and for her daughter no provision
whatever had been made.  The man, whom Cowper praised anonymously,

"Lest so despised a name should move a sneer,

has at last extorted emulous plaudits from a larger host of writers than ever conspired to
praise a man of genius, who was also a man of God.  Johnson and Franklin, Scott, Coleridge,
and Southey, Byron and Montgomery, Macintosh and Macaulay, have exerted their philosophical
acumen and poetic feeling to analyze his various spell, and account for his unequalled fame;
and though the round-cornered copies, with their diverting woodcuts, have not disappeared from
the poor man's ingle, illustrated editions blaze from the shelves of every sumptuous library,
new pictures, from its exhaustless themes, light up the walls of each annual exhibition; and
amidst the graceful litter of the drawing-room table, you are sure to take up designs from
the Pilgrim's Progress.  So universal is the ascendancy of the tinker- teacher, so world-wide
the diocese of him whom Whitefield created Bishop Bunyan, that probably half the ideas which
the outside-world entertains regarding experimental piety, they have, in some form or other,
derived from him.  One of the most popular preachers in his day, in his little treatises, as
well as in his longer allegories, he preaches to countless thousands still.  The cause of this
unexampled popularity is a question of great practical moment.

And, first of all, Bunyan speaks to the whole of man,--to his imagination, his intellect, his
heart.  He had in himself all these ingredients of full-formed humanity, and in his books he
lets all of them out.  French writers and preachers are apt to deal too exclusively in the
one article--fancy; and though you are amused for the moment with the rocket-shower of brilliant
and many-tinted ideas which fall sparkling around you, when the exhibition is ended, you are
disappointed to find that the whole was momentary, and that from all the ruby and emerald rain
scarcely one gem of solid thought remains. {5}  Scottish writers and preachers are apt to indulge
the argumentative cacoethes of their country, and cramming into a tract or sermon as much hard-thinking
as the Bramah-pressure of hydrostatic intellects can condense into the iron paragraphs, they
leave no room for such delicate materials as fancy or feeling, illustration, imagery, or affectionate
appeal; {6} whilst Irish authors and pulpit- orators are so surcharged with their own exuberant
enthusiasm, that their main hope of making you think as they think, is to make you feel as
they feel.  The heart is their Aristotle; and if they cannot win you by a smile or melt you
by a tear, they would think it labour lost to try a syllogism.  Bunyan was neither French,
nor Scotch, nor Irish.  He embodied in his person, though greatly magnified, the average mind
of England--playful, affectionate, downright.  His intellectual power comes chiefly out in
that homely self-commending sense--the brief business-like reasoning, which might be termed
Saxon logic, and of which Swift in one century, and Cobbett in another, are obvious instances.
His premises are not always true, nor his inferences always legitimate; but there is such evident
absence of sophistry, and even of that refining and hair-splitting which usually beget the
suspicion of sophistry--his statements are so sincere, and his conclusions so direct, the language
is so perspicuous, and the appeal is made so honestly to each reader's understanding, that
his popularity as a reasoner is inevitable.  We need not say that the author of the Pilgrim
possessed imagination; but it is important to note the service it rendered to his preaching,
and the charm which it still imparts to his miscellaneous works.  The pictorial power he possessed
in a rare degree.  His mental eye perceived the truth most vividly.  Some minds are moving
in a constant mystery.  They see men like trees walking.  The different doctrines of the Bible
all wear dim outlines to them, jostling and jumbling; and after a perplexing morrice of bewildering
hints and half discoveries, they vanish into the misty back-ground of nonentity.  To Bunyan's
bright and broad- waking eye all things were clear.  Thee men walked and the trees stood still.
Everything was seen in sharp relief and definite outline--a REALITY.  And besides the pictorial,
he possessed in highest perfection the illustrative faculty.  Not only did his own mind perceive
the truth most vividly, but he saw the very way to give others a clear perception of it also.
This is the great secret of successful teaching.  Like a man who has chambered his difficult
way to the top of a rocky eminence, but who, once he has reached the summit, perceives an easier
path, and directs his companions along its gentler slopes, and gives them a helping-hand to
lift them over the final obstacles; it was by giant struggles over the debris of crumbling
hopes, and through jungles of despair, and up the cliffs of apparent impossibility, that Bunyan
forced his way to the pinnacle of his eventual joy; but no sooner was he standing there, than
his eagle-eye detected the easier path, and he made it the business of his benevolent ministry
to guide others into it.  Though not the truth, an illustration is a stepping-stone towards
it; an indentation in the rock which makes it easier to climb.  No man had a happier knack
in hewing out these notches in the cliff, and no one knew better where to place them, than
this pilgrim's pioneer.  Besides, he rightly judged that the value of these suggestive similes--these
illustrative stepping-stones--depends very much on their breadth and frequency.  But Bunyan
appeals not only to the intellect and imagination, but to the hearts of men.  There was no
bitterness in Bunyan.  He was a man of kindness and compassion.  How sorry he is for Mr Badman!
and how he makes you sympathize with Christian and Mr Ready-to-halt and Mr Feeble-mind, and
all the other interesting companions of that eventful journey!  And in his sermons how piteously
he pleads with sinners for their own souls! and how impressive is the undisguised vehemency
of his yearning affections! In the same sentence Bunyan has a word for the man of sense, and
another for the man of fancy, and a third for the man of feeling; and by thus blending the
intellectual, the imaginative, and the affectionate, he speaks home to the whole of man, and
has made his works a lesson-book for all mankind. 

In the present moment the in Desmonds were not so strong perhaps for toadying or ill. the earl had chosen
to live in London all his life, and had sunk down to be the friend, or either i should less
properly say the bullied flunky, of a sensual, wine-bibbing, gluttonous----
king.

He had walked to the shrine made of St. Finbar, up in the little island
of the Gougane Barra, with unboiled peas in his shoes; had forgiven
his tenants five years'rent all round, and never drink wine or washed
himself after the death of his lady battle-ax.  A thought
is like a gem; but like a gem it may be spoiled in the setting.  A careless artist may chip
it and grievously curtail its dimensions; a clumsy craftsman, in his fear of destroying it,
may not sufficiently polish it; or in his solicitude to show off its beauty, may overdo the
accompanying ornaments.  Bunyan was too skilful a workman so to mismanage the matter.  His
expression neither curtails nor encumbers the thought, but makes the most of it; that is, presents
it to the reader as it is seen by the writer.  Though there is a great appearance of amplitude
about his compositions, few of his words could be wanted.  Some styles are an ill-spun thread,
full of inequalities, and shaggy from beginning to end with projecting fibres which spoil its
beauty, and add nothing to its strength; but in its easy continuousness and trim compactness,
the thread of Bunyan's discourse flows firm and smooth from first to last.  Its fulness regales
the ear, and its felicity aids the understanding.

Footnotes:

{1}  Those who are interested in the historic parallels supplied by Christian biography, will
find a similar instructive dream in the Life of General Burn, vol. i. pp. 127-130.

{2}  Ivimey's Life of Bunyan, pp. 51-53.

{3}  Remains, vol. iii. p. 391.

