THE ART OF PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF THE

Cucumber and Melon;

IN A SERIES OF DIRECTIONS

FOR THE BEST MEANS TO BE ADOPTED IN BRINGING THEM TO

A COMPLETE STATE OF PERFECTION.

       *       *       *       *       *

BY

THOMAS WATKINS,

Many Years Foreman with Mr. Grange, of Hackney, and now with W. Knight, Esq. Highbury Park.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON:

PUBLISHED BY HARDING, ST. JAMES'S STREET;

AND SOLD BY GRANGE AND DULLY, FRUITERERS, COVENT GARDEN; MASON AND SON, SEEDSMEN, FLEET STREET;
WARNER AND CO. SEEDSMEN, CORNHILL; GARRAWAY, NURSERY AND SEEDSMAN, NEAR MARYLAND POINT, STRATFORD,
ESSEX; AND BY THE AUTHOR, AT HIGHBURY.

1824.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRINTED BY S. CAVE, ISLINGTON GREEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ART OF PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF THE

Cucumber and Melon.

ADVERTISEMENT.

The author begs to inform the purchasers of this work, that it was originally his intention
to have given an engraving of the particular description of cucumber and melon, which he has
been so successful in bringing to a state of perfection; and, in fact, a plate was executed,
at a considerable expense, for that purpose. Finding, however, that although accurate in its
representation of fine fruit, it did not pourtray the difference, nor convey the precise idea
of those qualities which constitute the superiority of the author's; and aware that such would
have been obvious to every experienced gardener, the design was necessarily abandoned, trusting,
that as it was merely intended for an embellishment, its deficiency will not render the work
less valuable to the profession.

CONTENTS.

The Cucumber Seed-bed for October                              Page 1

The Fruiting Frame for early Plants                                14

The Seed-bed for January                                           43

On the Culture of the late Cucumber                                46

On the Hand-glass Cucumber                                         51

Dimensions of the Boxes and Lights for early and late Cucumbers    59

On the Culture of early and late Melons                            65

Dimensions of the Boxes and Lights for ditto                       83

Preface.

Having, when young, imbibed a particular inclination to study the culture of the cucumber and
melon, under the direction of my father, whose character as an early framer was in high repute,
I assiduously tried every experiment which was calculated to improve upon his system, by bringing
them to a more complete state of perfection.

In marking the progress of their growth, I usually committed to writing those plans which I
had found to have been productive of beneficial effects. The result of these remarks has proved
the compilation of the following treatise, undertaken at the request of several horticulturists,
who have expressed their desire to become acquainted with the process of my mode of cultivation.

Considering it superfluous to enlarge this work by unnecessary or controversial observations,
I have confined myself entirely to those directions, upon which I have uniformly acted; and
have endeavoured to reduce them into as plain and simple a form as possible; at the same time
observing to omit nothing which can be of utility in this difficult and hitherto imperfectly
understood branch of horticulture.

Several gardeners, who are now very eminent in their profession, have placed themselves under
my tuition, and I flatter myself are perfectly satisfied that the instruction they received,
was fully adequate to the compensation required; and perfectly convinced them of the superiority
of my mode of culture. I here pledge myself, that the advice given to such practitioners is
contained in the following directions.

My principal object in the different experiments I have tried, has always been to discover
an easy, as well as a certain method of maturing these delicate plants, and, in consequence,
have avoided, as much as possible, any artificial means that might be attended with difficulty
or expense.

The only writer I know upon this subject, with the exception of Abercrombie, whose system is
now totally exploded, is Mr. M'Phail, gardener to Lord Hawkesbury. This gentleman published
a treatise in the year 1795, in which he strenuously recommends brick pits for cucumbers and
melons, as far superior to the dung bed. It will be obvious, however, to every person who has
perused that work, that the plan was adopted merely through deficiency of knowledge in the
proper management of the dung bed; for Mr. M'Phail asserts, that upon first attempting to produce
early cucumbers in Lord Hawkesbury's garden, he completely failed, and was, in consequence,
induced to apply to some horticulturist in the neighbourhood, to whom he paid a gratuity of
five guineas for his instruction. The principal thing he appears to have been taught, was to
keep the burning heat of the dung about the roots of the plants down by the continual application
of water into the bed; which, however, he found insufficient to preserve them in a thriving
state, throughout the winter months. This caused him to assert that it was out of the power
of any person to keep a dung bed sweet, and consequently impracticable to rear them at that
time of the year. To this I have only to observe, that the following directions will prove
a contradiction; for if they are strictly attended to, no fear need be entertained of their
vigorous growth, either from the premature season, or the inclemency of the weather.

In December and January, although their health is certain, I must allow that they do not grow
so fast as in other months; and this is the particular time when difficulty is experienced
by those who are unacquainted with the proper means to be adopted, although, perhaps, their
efforts may have been attended with far more trouble than the rules here prescribed.

The dung bed is certainly of the greatest importance both in the culture of the cucumber and
melon; and want of knowledge in the management is generally the cause of the loss of the plants
in the winter season, by the settlement of a cold moisture upon them, which cannot be removed
without assistance from the sun: particular attention, therefore, to the directions given upon
that point is highly necessary; indeed, it cannot be too strongly impressed on the mind of
the horticulturist that upon this greatly depends the success of his endeavours to mature them
to any degree of perfection.

In the remarks upon preserving the plants from a cold moisture, in the most inclement weather,
I have called to assistance what may be technically termed an artificial sun; and as this most
material point may be perfectly understood I shall here describe it more particularly.

Keep the bed always wrapped up to nearly the top of the box with hay, straw, or any kind of
sweet litter; observing that hay, however damaged, is certainly preferable; this will have
the desired effect in promoting a top heat, and obviating the difficulty above-mentioned, in
keeping the plants perfectly dry.

To those who are unacquainted with the management of a dung bed, a brick one certainly appears
more advantageous, in being attended with less trouble to the horticulturist, though infinitely
with more expense, both in the building and consumption of dung: this, however, is a mistaken
idea, for nothing certainly can be more congenial to the growth of either the cucumber or melon
than a sweet steam heat: this essential requisite, which may always be obtained by the process
hereafter described, can be but partially promoted in brick pits; for although water, in its
necessary application, may create a steam heat, it soon evaporates; and the heat of the linings
having to pass through the bricks and tiles, it becomes dry, and quite incapable of affording
any nourishment to the plants.

The limited space in which the plants are confined in their growth by brick pits, is also a
very great objection to this mode of culture. That they derive their chief support from the
extremity of the roots must be obvious to every one, and if these are concentred in the middle
of the bed, and thereby rendered incapable of expanding over the flues as in the dung bed,
they must be certainly deprived of that vigour which is natural to them from a free and uninterrupted
growth, and where they experience the whole of the benefit that can arise from the bed in which
they are placed. In short, the dung bed in so many instances is superior to brick pits, that
competition in the culture of either the cucumber or melon by the latter plan would be entirely
useless; for whether in the vigour of the plants, quickness of growth, or production of fine
fruit, the dung bed, systematically attended to, as described in this treatise, will prove
beyond doubt, that the most expensive means are not always attended with the most beneficial
results.

In the following directions, the first thing I have taken notice of, is the early cucumber,
as being the most difficult, and consequently the most particular in its process of culture.
Strict attention and perseverance in the method prescribed, cannot fail to bring them to a
complete state of perfection within the time limited.

Secondly--The necessary directions will be found for promoting the growth of such cucumbers
as are sown in January. It is here necessary to observe, that this is the most preferable season
for those which are not required so very early; as the increasing temperature of the weather
in the course of their growth, affords facility for their being matured with a greater degree
of strength.

Thirdly--The method of bringing to perfection the late frame, or spring sown cucumber. The
directions upon this head will be found extremely useful, both to young practitioners, and
those who are not professed horticulturists. Many gentlemen who cultivate their own gardens,
and are desirous of possessing a cucumber bed, will find the information here given of great
utility.

Fourthly--In treating upon the process necessary for the management of the hand-glass cucumber
in the summer months, I have offered an improved system, which will be found of considerable
importance to gardeners in general in enhancing the value of their fruit, by rendering it much
superior to that produced by the common method.

The directions I have given with regard to the melon, will be found to explode all that difficulty
which gardeners have usually imagined exists in the production of this choice fruit. The description
given of my method of culture, will at once evince the simplicity of its process, and show
the certainty of its result.

Having explained the motives which induced me to undertake this work, I have only to observe,
that the system has been productive of great advantage to myself, in enabling me to supersede
my contemporaries in several annual shows, by obtaining the prize; and, to render this effective
to every person, the principal thing required, as before mentioned, is attention and perseverance
in the rules prescribed; and those who adopt them will, I am confident, acknowledge their utility,
and be sensible of the benefits that must eventually arise from a practical improvement in
this particular branch of horticulture.

THOMAS WATKINS.

Highbury Park, January 30, 1824.

THE ART OF PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF THE

Cucumber and Melon.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE MANAGEMENT REQUIRED IN THE CULTURE OF EARLY CUCUMBERS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SEED-BED FOR OCTOBER:

