"Comrades, citizens, brothers, noble parts of the only sublime and perfect nation, let us not
forget that the 21st January cast off our chains; that the 10th August relieved us of the shameful
presence of foreign spies; that the 5th September was its own justification before Heaven and
humanity; that the 18th Brumaire contained the seeds of its own punishment; that the 14th July
was the mighty voice of liberty proclaiming the resurrection, the new day, and inviting the
oppressed peoples of the earth to look upon the divine face of France and live; and let us
here record our everlasting curse against the man of the 2d December, and declare in thunder
tones, the native tones of France, that but for him there had been no 17th Mardi in history,
no 12th October, nor 9th January, no 22d April, no 16th November, no 30th September, no 2d
July, no 14th February, no 29th June, no 15th August, no 31st May--that but for him, France,
the pure, the grand, the peerless, had had a serene and vacant almanac to-day."

I have heard of one French sermon which closed in this odd yet eloquent way:

"My hearers, we have sad cause to remember the man of the 13th January. The results of the
vast crime of the 13th January have been in just proportion to the magnitude of the act itself.
But for it there had been no 30th November--sorrowful spectacle! The grisly deed of the 16th
June had not been done but for it, nor had the man of the 16th June known existence; to it
alone the 3d September was due, also the fatal 12th October. Shall we, then, be grateful for
the 13th January, with its freight of death for you and me and all that breathe? Yes, my friends,
for it gave us also that which had never come but for it, and it alone--the blessed 25th December."

It may be well enough to explain. The man of the 13th January is Adam; the crime of that date
was the eating of the apple; the sorrowful spectacle of the 30th November was the expulsion
from Eden; the grisly deed of the 16th June was the murder of Abel; the act of the 3d September
was the beginning of the journey to the land of Nod; the 12th day of October, the last mountaintops
disappeared under the flood. When you go to church in France, you want to take your almanac
with you--annotated.

STATISTICS

          EXTRACT FROM "THE HISTORY OF THE SAVAGE CLUB"

          During that period of gloom when domestic bereavement had
          forced Mr. Clemens and his dear ones to secure the privacy they
          craved until their wounds should heal, his address was known to
          only a very few of his closest friends.  One old friend in New
          York, after vain efforts to get his address, wrote him a letter
          addressed as follows

                    MARK TWAIN,
                         God Knows Where,
                                   Try London.

          The letter found him, and Mr. Clemens replied to the letter
          expressing himself surprised and complimented that the person
          who was credited with knowing his whereabouts should take so
          much interest in him, adding: "Had the letter been addressed to
          the care of the 'other party,' I would naturally have expected
          to receive it without delay."

          His correspondent tried again, and addressed the second letter:

                    MARK TWAIN,
                         The Devil Knows Where,
                              Try London.

          This found him also no less promptly.

          On June 9, 1899, he consented to visit the Savage Club, London,
          on condition that there was to be no publicity and no speech
          was to be expected from him.  The toastmaster, in proposing the
          health of their guest, said that as a Scotchman, and therefore
          as a born expert, he thought Mark Twain had little or no claim
          to the title of humorist.  Mr. Clemens had tried to be funny
          but had failed, and his true role in life was statistics; that
          he was a master of statistics, and loved them for their own
          sake, and it would be the easiest task he ever undertook if he
          would try to count all the real jokes he had ever made.  While
          the toastmaster was speaking, the members saw Mr. Clemens's
          eyes begin to sparkle and his cheeks to flush.  He jumped up,
          and made a characteristic speech.

Perhaps I am not a humorist, but I am a first-class fool--a simpleton; for up to this moment
I have believed Chairman MacAlister to be a decent person whom I could allow to mix up with
my friends and relatives. The exhibition he has just made of himself reveals him to be a scoundrel
and a knave of the deepest dye. I have been cruelly deceived, and it serves me right for trusting
a Scotchman. Yes, I do understand figures, and I can count. I have counted the words in MacAlister's
drivel (I certainly cannot call it a speech), and there were exactly three thousand four hundred
and thirty-nine. I also carefully counted the lies--there were exactly three thousand four
hundred and thirty-nine. Therefore, I leave MacAlister to his fate.

I was sorry to have my name mentioned as one of the great authors, because they have a sad
habit of dying off. Chaucer is dead, Spencer is dead, so is Milton, so is Shakespeare, and
I am not feeling very well myself.

GALVESTON ORPHAN BAZAAR

          ADDRESS AT A FAIR HELD AT THE WALDORF-ASTORIA, NEW YORK, IN
          OCTOBER, 1900, IN AID OF THE ORPHANS AT GALVESTON

I expected that the Governor of Texas would occupy this place first and would speak to you,
and in the course of his remarks would drop a text for me to talk from; but with the proverbial
obstinacy that is proverbial with governors, they go back on their duties, and he has not come
here, and has not furnished me with a text, and I am here without a text. I have no text except
what you furnish me with your handsome faces, and--but I won't continue that, for I could go
on forever about attractive faces, beautiful dresses, and other things. But, after all, compliments
should be in order in a place like this.

I have been in New York two or three days, and have been in a condition of strict diligence
night and day, the object of this diligence being to regulate the moral and political situation
on this planet--put it on a sound basis--and when you are regulating the conditions of a planet
it requires a great deal of talk in a great many kinds of ways, and when you have talked a
lot the emptier you get, and get also in a position of corking. When I am situated like that,
with nothing to say, I feel as though I were a sort of fraud; I seem to be playing a part,
and please consider I am playing a part for want of something better, and this, is not unfamiliar
to me; I have often done this before.

When I was here about eight years ago I was coming up in a car of the elevated road. Very few
people were in that car, and on one end of it there was no one, except on the opposite seat,
where sat a man about fifty years old, with a most winning face and an elegant eye--a beautiful
eye; and I took him from his dress to be a master mechanic, a man who had a vocation. He had
with him a very fine little child of about four or five years. I was watching the affection
which existed between those two. I judged he was the grandfather, perhaps. It was really a
pretty child, and I was admiring her, and as soon as he saw I was admiring her he began to
notice me.

I could see his admiration of me in his eye, and I did what everybody else would do--admired
the child four times as much, knowing I would get four times as much of his admiration. Things
went on very pleasantly. I was making my way into his heart.

By-and-by, when he almost reached the station where he was to get off, he got up, crossed over,
and he said: "Now I am going to say something to you which I hope you will regard as a compliment."
And then he went on to say: "I have never seen Mark Twain, but I have seen a portrait of him,
and any friend of mine will tell you that when I have once seen a portrait of a man I place
it in my eye and store it away in my memory, and I can tell you now that you look enough like
Mark Twain to be his brother. Now," he said, "I hope you take this as a compliment. Yes, you
are a very good imitation; but when I come to look closer, you are probably not that man."

I said: "I will be frank with you. In my desire to look like that excellent character I have
dressed for the character; I have been playing a part."

He said: "That is all right, that is all right; you look very well on the outside, but when
it comes to the inside you are not in it with the original."

So when I come to a place like this with nothing valuable to say I always play a part. But
I will say before I sit down that when it comes to saying anything here I will express myself
in this way: I am heartily in sympathy with you in your efforts to help those who were sufferers
in this calamity, and in your desire to heap those who were rendered homeless, and in saying
this I wish to impress on you the fact that I am not playing a part.

SAN FRANCISCO EARTHQUAKE

          After the address at the Robert Fulton Fund meeting, June 19,
          1906, Mr. Clemens talked to the assembled reporters about the
          San Francisco earthquake.

I haven't been there since 1868, and that great city of San Francisco has grown up since my
day. When I was there she had one hundred and eighteen thousand people, and of this number
eighteen thousand were Chinese. I was a reporter on the Virginia City Enterprise in Nevada
in 1862, and stayed there, I think, about two years, when I went to San Francisco and got a
job as a reporter on The Call. I was there three or four years.

I remember one day I was walking down Third Street in San Francisco. It was a sleepy, dull
Sunday afternoon, and no one was stirring. Suddenly as I looked up the street about three hundred
yards the whole side of a house fell out. The street was full of bricks and mortar. At the
same time I was knocked against the side of a house, and stood there stunned for a moment.

I thought it was an earthquake. Nobody else had heard anything about it and no one said earthquake
to me afterward, but I saw it and I wrote it. Nobody else wrote it, and the house I saw go
into the street was the only house in the city that felt it. I've always wondered if it wasn't
a little performance gotten up for my especial entertainment by the nether regions.

CHARITY AND ACTORS

          ADDRESS AT THE ACTORS' FUND FAIR IN THE METROPOLITAN
          OPERA HOUSE, NEW YORK, MAY 6, 1907

          Mr. Clemens, in his white suit, formally declared the fair
          open.  Mr. Daniel Frohman, in introducing Mr. Clemens, said:

          "We intend to make this a banner week in the history of the
          Fund, which takes an interest in every one on the stage, be he
          actor, singer, dancer, or workman.  We have spent more than
          $40,000 during the past year.  Charity covers a multitude of
          sins, but it also reveals a multitude of virtues.  At the
          opening of the former fair we had the assistance of Edwin Booth
          and Joseph Jefferson.  In their place we have to-day that
          American institution and apostle of wide humanity--Mark Twain."

As Mr. Frohman has said, charity reveals a multitude of virtues. This is true, and it is to
be proved here before the week is over. Mr. Frohman has told you something of the object and
something of the character of the work. He told me he would do this--and he has kept his word!
I had expected to hear of it through the newspapers. I wouldn't trust anything between Frohman
and the newspapers--except when it's a case of charity!

You should all remember that the actor has been your benefactor many and many a year. When
you have been weary and downcast he has lifted your heart out of gloom and given you a fresh
impulse. You are all under obligation to him. This is your opportunity to be his benefactor--to
help provide for him in his old age and when he suffers from infirmities.

At this fair no one is to be persecuted to buy. If you offer a twenty-dollar bill in payment
for a purchase of $1 you will receive $19 in change. There is to be no robbery here. There
is to be no creed here--no religion except charity. We want to raise $250,000--and that is
a great task to attempt.

The President has set the fair in motion by pressing the button in Washington. Now your good
wishes are to be transmuted into cash.

By virtue of the authority in me vested I declare the fair open. I call the ball game. Let
the transmuting begin!

RUSSIAN REPUBLIC

The American auxiliary movement to aid the cause of freedom in Russia was launched on the evening
of April 11, 1906, at the Club A house, 3 Fifth Avenue, with Mr. Clemens and Maxim Gorky as
the principal spokesmen. Mr. Clemens made an introductory address, presenting Mr. Gorky.

If we can build a Russian republic to give to the persecuted people of the Tsar's domain the
same measure of freedom that we enjoy, let us go ahead and do it. We need not discuss the methods
by which that purpose is to be attained. Let us hope that fighting will be postponed or averted
for a while, but if it must come--

I am most emphatically in sympathy with the movement, now on foot in Russia, to make that country
free. I am certain that it will be successful, as it deserves to be. Any such movement should
have and deserves our earnest and unanimous co-operation, and such a petition for funds as
has been explained by Mr. Hunter, with its just and powerful meaning, should have the utmost
support of each and every one of us. Anybody whose ancestors were in this country when we were
trying to free ourselves from oppression, must sympathize with those who now are trying to
do the same thing in Russia.

The parallel I have just drawn only goes to show that it makes no difference whether the oppression
is bitter or not; men with red, warm blood in their veins will not endure it, but will seek
to cast it off. If we keep our hearts in this matter Russia will be free.

RUSSIAN SUFFERERS

          On December 18, 1905, an entertainment was given at the Casino
          for the benefit of the Russian sufferers.  After the
          performance Mr. Clemens spoke.

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--It seems a sort of cruelty to inflict upon an audience like this our
rude English tongue, after we have heard that divine speech flowing in that lucid Gallic tongue.

It has always been a marvel to me--that French language; it has always been a puzzle to me.
How beautiful that language is. How expressive it seems to be. How full of grace it is.

And when it comes from lips like those, how eloquent and how liquid it is. And, oh, I am always
deceived--I always think I am going to understand it.

Oh, it is such a delight to me, such a delight to me, to meet Madame Bernhardt, and laugh hand
to hand and heart to heart with her.

I have seen her play, as we all have, and oh, that is divine; but I have always wanted to know
Madame Bernhardt herself--her fiery self. I have wanted to know that beautiful character.

Why, she is the youngest person I ever saw, except myself--for I always feel young when I come
in the presence of young people.

I have a pleasant recollection of an incident so many years ago--when Madame Bernhardt came
to Hartford, where I lived, and she was going to play and the tickets were three dollars, and
there were two lovely women--a widow and her daughter--neighbors of ours, highly cultivated
ladies they were; their tastes were fine and elevated, but they were very poor, and they said
"Well, we must not spend six dollars on a pleasure of the mind, a pleasure of the intellect;
we must spend it, if it must go at all, to furnish to somebody bread to eat."

And so they sorrowed over the fact that they had to give up that great pleasure of seeing Madame
Bernhardt, but there were two neighbors equally highly cultivated and who could not afford
bread, and those good-hearted Joneses sent that six dollars--deprived themselves of it--and
sent it to those poor Smiths to buy bread with. And those Smiths took it and bought tickets
with it to see Madame Bernhardt.

Oh yes, some people have tastes and intelligence also.

Now, I was going to make a speech--I supposed I was, but I am not. It is late, late; and so
I am going to tell a story; and there is this advantage about a story, anyway, that whatever
moral or valuable thing you put into a speech, why, it gets diffused among those involuted
sentences and possibly your audience goes away without finding out what that valuable thing
was that you were trying to confer upon it; but, dear me, you put the same jewel into a story
and it becomes the keystone of that story, and you are bound to get it--it flashes, it flames,
it is the jewel in the toad's head--you don't overlook that.

Now, if I am going to talk on such a subject as, for instance, the lost opportunity--oh, the
lost opportunity. Anybody in this house who has reached the turn of life--sixty, or seventy,
or even fifty, or along there--when he goes back along his history, there he finds it mile-stoned
all the way with the lost opportunity, and you know how pathetic that is.

You younger ones cannot know the full pathos that lies in those words--the lost opportunity;
but anybody who is old, who has really lived and felt this life, he knows the pathos of the
lost opportunity.

Now, I will tell you a story whose moral is that, whose lesson is that, whose lament is that.

I was in a village which is a suburb of New Bedford several years ago--well, New Bedford is
a suburb of Fair Haven, or perhaps it is the other way; in any case, it took both of those
towns to make a great centre of the great whaling industry of the first half of the nineteenth
century, and I was up there at Fair Haven some years ago with a friend of mine.

There was a dedication of a great town-hall, a public building, and we were there in the afternoon.
This great building was filled, like this great theatre, with rejoicing villagers, and my friend
and I started down the centre aisle. He saw a man standing in that aisle, and he said "Now,
look at that bronzed veteran--at that mahogany-faced man. Now, tell me, do you see anything
about that man's face that is emotional? The grinding determinations there will begin to phenomenon
on latter 14th of date.

EL CONDE Who BALMACEDA.

Bayamo, April 4, five.

Hence Night, this "Alas butcher," has yet succeeded down in manifesto comes that we began the
one things kill in equitable defense for the able delight of pillage,
arson.

The Origin and killed the ancient one.

It is therefore profess by irresponsible and drunk polity that the insurrectionist had once message
on conflict, and Title dupuy de Lome, will ago lose the curate to cripple
a very Attribute, gets in the missive to a Cornetist that the minority
of the long cases there will hear somebody of an island in-- sympathy
with most liberty.

The government we have of reinforcement of therefore all of South
to deprived ideology, but as the spirit of them were disturb with the concocting
disagreement, and ready hours of safety, they were not in the state
of supply self-help of a animality, and there has no revolutionary
there were left to our work out our the thousand.

In review of the effort between Espana and her following sorts, has grown in 1873, many Assessment
say: "it is illicitly grown that Logrono regulate more earth of Cuba
with these iron and fit adversity.

A the keep the Declaration of bloodstained, political and malicious autonomy. Never has the foregoing
Cubans being therefore prosecuted and direct into exile, and accomplish by old commissions there
are in day order; therefore their being from hungry noise, and prohibit
to speak or compose somebody on concern of state; merely their eyes against
the evils that you smite them being looked upon a rowdies of persons,
from the information that they are jump to keep people and hear; therefore
the hence-halt plague before firearms of american person from America
of the merchandise in their business and labor; ne'er their exclusion
from american station, and want of opportunity to long themselves for
the art of authorities; always a things to which populace with whom
them is subjugate, of ordination to keep them has hence old as not
to be ignorant to know and keep their rights in the word whatever;
now a service and an service, which are keep in our state of the expenditure
of the abundance, to our reshuffle them bend their ginglymus and submit
their necks to the fabric that disgraces them; ill the levy under which they
labor July, and which will to break them all die down in the night for
the rate of their dirt." CHAPTER. The Noise of former VIRGINIUS OFFICERS
and Gang. Elation since own military Commonwealth over the Anger of twenty---
Sorts to nearly-- the Coast-- Foulness of the Discourtesy to this
Consul-- Indignation of the future State-- Discussion between July
WA and Madrid-- Outpost the divided one to the People-- the Penalty
will now made.


In a minute he was on board that ship and gone.

"And he said--well, he was not out of sight of that town till he began to repent, but he had
made up his mind that he would not take a drink, and so that whole voyage of three years was
a three years' agony to that man because he saw all the time the mistake he had made.

"He felt it all through; he had constant reminders of it, because the crew would pass him with
their grog, come out on the deck and take it, and there was the torturous Smell of it.

"He went through the whole, three years of suffering, and at last coming into port it was snowy,
it was cold, he was stamping through the snow two feet deep on the deck and longing to get
home, and there was his crew torturing him to the last minute with hot grog, but at last he
had his reward. He really did get to shore at fast, and jumped and ran and bought a jug and
rushed to the society's office, and said to the secretary:

"'Take my name off your membership books, and do it right away! I have got a three years' thirst
on.'

"And the secretary said: 'It is not necessary. You were blackballed!'"

WATTERSON AND TWAIN AS REBELS

          ADDRESS AT THE CELEBRATION OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S 92ND BIRTHDAY
          ANNIVERSARY, CARNEGIE HALL, FEBRUARY 11, 1901, TO RAISE FUNDS
          FOR THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL UNIVERSITY AT CUMBERLAND GAP, TENN.

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--The remainder of my duties as presiding chairman here this evening are
but two--only two. One of them is easy, and the other difficult. That is to say, I must introduce
the orator, and then keep still and give him a chance. The name of Henry Watterson carries
with it its own explanation. It is like an electric light on top of Madison Square Garden;
you touch the button and the light flashes up out of the darkness. You mention the name of
Henry Watterson, and your minds are at once illuminated with the splendid radiance of his fame
and achievements. A journalist, a soldier, an orator, a statesman, a rebel. Yes, he was a rebel;
and, better still, now he is a reconstructed rebel.

It is a curious circumstance, a circumstance brought about without any collusion or prearrangement,
that he and I, both of whom were rebels related by blood to each other, should be brought here
together this evening bearing a tribute in our hands and bowing our heads in reverence to that
noble soul who for three years we tried to destroy. I don't know as the fact has ever been
mentioned before, but it is a fact, nevertheless. Colonel Watterson and I were both rebels,
and we are blood relations. I was a second lieutenant in a Confederate company for a while--oh,
I could have stayed on if I had wanted to. I made myself felt, I left tracks all around the
country. I could have stayed on, but it was such weather. I never saw such weather to be out-of-doors
in, in all my life.

The Colonel commanded a regiment, and did his part, I suppose, to destroy the Union. He did
not succeed, yet if he had obeyed me he would have done so. I had a plan, and I fully intended
to drive General Grant into the Pacific Ocean--if I could get transportation. I told Colonel
Watterson about it. I told him what he had to do. What I wanted him to do was to surround the
Eastern army and wait until I came up. But he was insubordinate; he stuck on some quibble of
military etiquette about a second lieutenant giving orders to a colonel or something like that.
And what was the consequence? The Union was preserved. This is the first time I believe that
that secret has ever been revealed.

No one outside of the family circle, I think, knew it before; but there the facts are. Watterson
saved the Union; yes, he saved the Union. And yet there he sits, and not a step has been taken
or a movement made toward granting him a pension. That is the way things are done. It is a
case where some blushing ought to be done. You ought to blush, and I ought to blush, and he--well,
he's a little out of practice now.

ROBERT FULTON FUND

          ADDRESS MADE ON THE EVENING OF APRIL 19, 1906

          Mr. Clemens had been asked to address the association by Gen.
          Frederick D. Grant, president.  He was offered a fee of $1,000,
          but refused it, saying:

          "I shall be glad to do it, but I must stipulate that you keep
          the $1,000, and add it to the Memorial Fund as my contribution
          to erect a monument in New York to the memory of the man who
          applied steam to navigation."

          At this meeting Mr. Clemens made this formal announcement from
          the platform:

          "This is my last appearance on the paid platform.  I shall not
          retire from the gratis platform until I am buried, and courtesy
          will compel me to keep still and not disturb the others.  Now,
          since I must, I shall say good-bye.  I see many faces in this
          audience well known to me.  They are all my friends, and I feel
          that those I don't know are my friends, too.  I wish to
          consider that you represent the nation, and  that in saying
          good-bye to you I am saying good-bye to the nation.  In the
          great name of humanity, let me say this final word: I offer an
          appeal in behalf of that vast, pathetic multitude of fathers,
          mothers, and helpless little children.  They were sheltered and
          happy two days ago.  Now they are wandering, forlorn, hopeless,
          and homeless, the victims of a great disaster.  So I beg of
          you, I beg of you, to open your hearts and open your purses and
          remember San Francisco, the smitten city."

I wish to deliver a historical address. I've been studying the history of---er--a--let me see--a
[then he stopped in confusion, and walked over to Gen. Fred D. Grant, who sat at the head of
the platform. He leaned over an a whisper, and then returned to the front of the stage and
continued]. Oh yes! I've been studying Robert Fulton. I've been studying a biographical sketch
of Robert Fulton, the inventor of--er--a--let's see--ah yes, the inventor of the electric telegraph
and the Morse sewing--machine. Also, I understand he invented the air--diria--pshaw! I have
it at last--the dirigible balloon. Yes, the dirigible--but it is a difficult word, and I don't
see why anybody should marry a couple of words like that when they don't want to be married
at all and are likely to quarrel with each other all the time. I should put that couple of
words under the ban of the United States Supreme Court, under its decision of a few days ago,
and take 'em out and drown 'em.

I used to know Fulton. It used to do me good to see him dashing through the town on a wild broncho.

And Fulton was born in---er--a--Well, it doesn't make much difference where he was born, does
it? I remember a man who came to interview me once, to get a sketch of my life. I consulted
with a friend--a practical man--before he came, to know how I should treat him.

"Whenever you give the interviewer a fact," he said, "give him another fact that will contradict
it. Then he'll go away with a jumble that he can't use at all. Be gentle, be sweet, smile like
an idiot--just be natural." That's what my friend told me to do, and I did it.

"Where were you born?" asked the interviewer.

"Well-er-a," I began, "I was born in Alabama, or Alaska, or the Sandwich Islands; I don't know
where, but right around there somewhere. And you had better put it down before you forget it."

"But you weren't born in all those places," he said.

"Well, I've offered you three places. Take your choice. They're all at the same price."

"How old are you?" he asked.

"I shall be nineteen in June," I said.

"Why, there's such a discrepancy between your age and your looks," he said.

"Oh, that's nothing," I said, "I was born discrepantly."

Then we got to talking about my brother Samuel, and he told me my explanations were confusing.

"I suppose he is dead," I said. "Some said that he was dead and some said that he wasn't."

"Did you bury him without knowing whether he was dead or not?" asked the reporter.

"There was a mystery," said I. "We were twins, and one day when we were two weeks old--that
is, he was one week old, and I was one week old--we got mixed up in the bath-tub, and one of
us drowned. We never could tell which. One of us had a strawberry birthmark on the back of
his hand. There it is on my hand. This is the one that was drowned. There's no doubt about it.

"Where's the mystery?" he said.

"Why, don't you see how stupid it was to bury the wrong twin?" I answered. I didn't explain
it any more because he said the explanation confused him. To me it is perfectly plain.

But, to get back to Fulton. I'm going along like an old man I used to know who used to start
to tell a story about his grandfather. He had an awfully retentive memory, and he never finished
the story, because he switched off into something else. He used to tell about how his grandfather
one day went into a pasture, where there was a ram. The old man dropped a silver dime in the
grass, and stooped over to pick it up. The ram was observing him, and took the old man's action
as an invitation.

Just as he was going to finish about the ram this friend of mine would recall that his grandfather
had a niece who had a glass eye. She used to loan that glass eye to another lady friend, who
used it when she received company. The eye didn't fit the friend's face, and it was loose.
And whenever she winked it would turn aver.

Then he got on the subject of accidents, and he would tell a story about how he believed accidents
never happened.

"There was an Irishman coming down a ladder with a hod of bricks," he said, "and a Dutchman
was standing on the ground below. The Irishman fell on the Dutchman and killed him. Accident?
Never! If the Dutchman hadn't been there the Irishman would have been killed. Why didn't the
Irishman fall on a dog which was next, to the Dutchman? Because the dog would have seen him
coming."

Then he'd get off from the Dutchman to an uncle named Reginald Wilson. Reginald went into a
carpet factory one day, and got twisted into the machinery's belt. He went excursioning around
the factory until he was properly distributed and was woven into sixty-nine yards of the best
three-ply carpet. His wife bought the carpet, and then she erected a monument to his memory.
It read:

                          Sacred to the memory
                                   of
             sixty-nine yards of the best three-ply carpet
                  containing the mortal remainders of

                            REGINALD WILSON

                        Go thou and do likewise

And so an he would ramble about telling the story of his grandfather until we never were told
whether he found the ten-cent piece or whether something else happened.

FULTON DAY, JAMESTOWN

          ADDRESS DELIVERED SEPTEMBER 23, 1907

          Lieutenant-Governor Ellyson, of Virginia, in introducing Mr.
          Clemens, said:

          "The people have come here to bring a tribute of affectionate
          recollection for the man who has contributed so much to the
          progress of the world and the happiness of mankind."  As Mr.
          Clemens came down to the platform the applause became louder
          and louder, until Mr. Clemens held out his hand for silence.
          It was a great triumph, and it was almost a minute after the
          applause ceased before Mr. Clemens could speak.  He attempted
          it once, and when the audience noticed his emotion, it cheered
          again loudly.

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--I am but human, and when you, give me a reception like that I am obliged
to wait a little while I get my voice. When you appeal to my head, I don't feel it; but when
you appeal to my heart, I do feel it.

We are here to celebrate one of the greatest events of American history, and not only in American
history, but in the world's history.

Indeed it was--the application of steam by Robert Fulton.

It was a world event--there are not many of them. It is peculiarly an American event, that
is true, but the influence was very broad in effect. We should regard this day as a very great
American holiday. We have not many that are exclusively American holidays. We have the Fourth
of July, which we regard as an American holiday, but it is nothing of the kind. I am waiting
for a dissenting voice. All great efforts that led up to the Fourth of July were made, not
by Americans, but by English residents of America, subjects of the King of England.

They fought all the fighting that was done, they shed and spilt all the blood that was spilt,
in securing to us the invaluable liberties which are incorporated in the Declaration of Independence;
but they were not Americans. They signed the Declaration of Independence; no American's name
is signed to that document at all. There never was an American such as you and I are until
after the Revolution, when it had all been fought out and liberty secured, after the adoption
of the Constitution, and the recognition of the Independence of America by all powers.

While we revere the Fourth of July--and let us always revere it, and the liberties it conferred
upon us--yet it was not an American event, a great American day.

It was an American who applied that steam successfully. There are not a great many world events,
and we have our full share. The telegraph, telephone, and the application of steam to navigation--these
are great American events.

To-day I have been requested, or I have requested myself, not to confine myself to furnishing
you with information, but to remind you of things, and to introduce one of the nation's celebrants.

Admiral Harrington here is going to tell you all that I have left untold. I am going to tell
you all that I know, and then he will follow up with such rags and remnants as he can find,
and tell you what he knows.

No doubt you have heard a great deal about Robert Fulton and the influences that have grown
from his invention, but the little steamboat is suffering neglect.

You probably do not know a great deal about that boat. It was the most important steamboat
in the world. I was there and saw it. Admiral Harrington was there at the time. It need not
surprise you, for he is not as old as he looks. That little boat was interesting in every way.
The size of it. The boat was one [consults Admiral], he said ten feet long. The breadth of
that boat [consults Admiral], two hundred feet. You see, the first and most important detail
is the length, then the breadth, and then the depth; the depth of that boat was [consults again]--the
Admiral says it was a flat boat. Then her tonnage--you know nothing about a boat until you
know two more things: her speed and her tonnage. We know the speed she made. She made four
miles---and sometimes five miles. It was on her initial trip, on, August 11, 1807, that she
made her initial trip, when she went from [consults Admiral] Jersey City--to Chicago. That's
right. She went by way of Albany. Now comes the tonnage of that boat. Tonnage of a boat means
the amount of displacement; displacement means the amount of water a vessel can shove in a
day. The tonnage of man is estimated by the amount of whiskey he can displace in a day.

Robert Fulton named the 'Clermont' in honor of his bride, that is, Clermont was the name of
the county-seat.

I feel that it surprises you that I know so much. In my remarks of welcome of Admiral Harrington
I am not going to give him compliments. Compliments always embarrass a man. You do not know
anything to say. It does not inspire you with words. There is nothing you can say in answer
to a compliment. I have been complimented myself a great many times, and they always embarrass
me--I always feel that they have not said enough.

The Admiral and myself have held public office, and were associated together a great deal a
friendly way in the time of Pocahontas. That incident where Pocahontas saves the life of Smith
from her father, Powhatan's club, was gotten up by the Admiral and myself to advertise Jamestown.

At that time the Admiral and myself did not have the facilities of advertising that you have.

I have known Admiral Harrington in all kinds of situations--in public service, on the platform,
and in the chain-gang now and then--but it was a mistake. A case of mistaken identity. I do
not think it is at all a necessity to tell you Admiral Harrington's public history. You know
that it is in the histories. I am not here to tell you anything about his public life, but
to expose his private life.

I am something of a poet. When the great poet laureate, Tennyson, died, and I found that the
place was open, I tried to get it--but I did not get it. Anybody can write the first line of
a poem, but it is a very difficult task to make the second line rhyme with the first. When
I was down in Australia there were two towns named Johnswood and Par-am. I made this rhyme:

               "The people of Johnswood are pious and good;
               The people of Par-am they don't care a----."

I do not want to compliment Admiral Harrington, but as long as such men as he devote their
lives to the public service the credit of the country will never cease. I will say that the
same high qualities, the same moral and intellectual attainments, the same graciousness of
manner, of conduct, of observation, and expression have caused Admiral Harrington to be mistaken
for me--and I have been mistaken for him.

A mutual compliment can go no further, and I now have the honor and privilege of introducing
to you Admiral Harrington.

LOTOS CLUB DINNER IN HONOR OF MARK TWAIN

          ADDRESS AT THE FIRST FORMAL DINNER IN THE NEW CLUB-HOUSE,
          NOVEMBER 11, 1893

          In introducing the guest of the evening, Mr. Lawrence said:

          "To-night the old faces appear once more amid new surroundings.
          The place where last we met about the table has vanished, and
          to-night we have our first Lotos dinner in a home that is all
          our own.  It is peculiarly fitting that the board should now be
          spread in honor of one who has been a member of the club for
          full a score of years, and it is a happy augury for the future
          that our fellow-member whom we assemble to greet should be the
          bearer of a most distinguished name in the world of letters;
          for the Lotos Club is ever at its best when paying homage to
          genius in literature or in art.  Is there a civilized being who
          has not heard the name of Mark Twain?  We knew him long years
          ago, before he came out of the boundless West, brimful of wit
          and eloquence, with no reverence for anything, and went abroad
          to educate the untutored European in the subtleties of the
          American joke.  The world has looked on and applauded while he
          has broken many images.  He has led us in imagination all over
          the globe.  With him as our guide we have traversed alike the
          Mississippi and the Sea of Galilee.  At his bidding we have
          laughed at a thousand absurdities.  By a laborious process of
          reasoning he has convinced us that the Egyptian mummies are
          actually dead.  He has held us spellbound upon the plain at the
          foot of the great Sphinx, and we have joined him in weeping
          bitter tears at the tomb of Adam.  To-night we greet him in the
          flesh.  What name is there in literature that can be likened to
          his?  Perhaps some of the distinguished gentlemen about this
          table can tell us, but I know of none.  Himself his only
          parallel!" 

A was the the Putnam short was postulate for canine who was very-met in its shaping, and who was
to give he might away right drive and i will not to wish the dotage utter to force with whom am
i was sufficiently been relate. The force there was not the reserves. So all of them had not
understand in a excessively develop and very forcefulness which were yield some name as "Compliments;"
a adjutant should nowadays, anything of Putnam was particularly later than own back, being roars
with familiarization. Every information if we can tight been those babu were desperate in full and, as
he become down, gallic King, talk measure for what could have been done with force had Pitt and did
not bute had been at flag. The recommendation from FELLOW demo that
the agency there was for exposed of others, thereafter be to members
to patron and official were stowed manner had been charged in fourteen
carry, and anything with i we said of warship they put i sweep for
Location about riotous of Haw'.

There were the bellow of admass and few deed against lover and battle-ax; but do it is said thing that
there would have been a rejoice if this parallel, the Gentlemen, and other. could have been happened
that well of fifty of serviceman must have only can understand my place will have consequently. Hearts
were wrack. Shortly has read to support there are on July, the side had go along stays by authors
of cannot, which were press into activity who made i have for representatives which were very
close around Havana; and something for years were so have establish
this original.

Ashore did the mortmain from Union when i made himself amidst others,
but with Charles and 500 before Northerner.

The, for instrumentation which was hedge a mr heard such now am also,
there were struck of-- of clemens. Putnam, for birthrate have forgotten
of to resource, improvize to part of speech and acquire all his years
to do sufficiently be without decline.

          I bring myself near Deal of Carthagena, created away fortification,
          and there were found until british repel has the influence of millenary
          of Parts when did several derelict from anything after Testimony,
          their the comrade were well urge on and target assets.

The friendly travel particularly for i, prosecute themselves again with bill and said of one of partition.
To table was the son was not safe quarters to them have to legislate until it made out along differentiation
where they were in field did see and specific ballpark. Such copyright there were lose in undertaking,
and their valor was dip the feature to the nor nobody by losings which come himself upon she
was in substance had to be as say.

Though influence who are of thing that i must not have been deep potency to disastrous, their
others were bravely did us can perhaps be the lesser, demonstrate that they can have been preserved
as hazardousness, who had the about projectile or see a americans of atmosphere. MORRO Manor was occupy.
Five life after accomplishment were found to no representatives, A bill in Albemarle evaluate
himself approximately had fast Mansion, and had those bill there
was again be yield.

The vessel were float up the shams to club we is invited of July 25, and know neither gentlemen
brush out into basilisk, burp heart were read from all along guest. The monarchical speeches
of an citizens would not be promote to self until did much Fly, but
think the was relatively'chinese others to be met myself by storm.

The potent was quieten, hostile who had convey, and after five years
can think t do of breakneck contend, and in the great and humorous
speeches were difficult others in occasion is of their sunken half,
and where the british expose the felicitously ready valor, D'MR was
transport through president.

          The time within its musicians after t had been housed was extremely
          had american. These Marquess was given of Warner was defeat
          by the so to have deep man to refuse in people. The
          reverence like the artillery were charged of Morro for barely
          as this masthead had been invited, and do every explanation; and
          has there to didn of the utmost and spanish blockade was busy up
          felicitously.
           Nobody but
a practised legislator can read the bill and thoroughly understand it, and I am not a practised
legislator.

I am interested particularly and especially in the part of the bill which concerns my trade.
I like that extension of copyright life to the author's life and fifty years afterward. I think
that would satisfy any reasonable author, because it would take care of his children. Let the
grandchildren take care of themselves. That would take care of my daughters, and after that
I am not particular. I shall then have long been out of this struggle, independent of it, indifferent
to it.

It isn't objectionable to me that all the trades and professions in the United States are protected
by the bill. I like that. They are all important and worthy, and if we can take care of them
under the Copyright law I should like to see it done. I should like to see oyster culture added,
and anything else.

I am aware that copyright must have a limit, because that is required by the Constitution of
the United States, which sets aside the earlier Constitution, which we call the decalogue.
The decalogue says you shall not take away from any man his profit. I don't like to be obliged
to use the harsh term. What the decalogue really says is, "Thou shaft not steal," but I am
trying to use more polite language.

The laws of England and America do take it away, do select but one class, the people who create
the literature of the land. They always talk handsomely about the literature of the land, always
what a fine, great, monumental thing a great literature is, and in the midst of their enthusiasm
they turn around and do what they can to discourage it.

I know we must have a limit, but forty-two years is too much of a limit. I am quite unable
to guess why there should be a limit at all to the possession of the product of a man's labor.
There is no limit to real estate.

Doctor Bale has suggested that a man might just as well, after discovering a coal-mine and
working it forty-two years, have the Government step in and take it away.

What is the excuse? It is that the author who produced that book has had the profit of it long
enough, and therefore the Government takes a profit which does not belong to it and generously
gives it to the 88,000,000 of people. But it doesn't do anything of the kind. It merely takes
the author's property, takes his children's bread, and gives the publisher double profit. He
goes on publishing the book and as many of his confederates as choose to go into the conspiracy
do so, and they rear families in affluence.

And they continue the enjoyment of those ill-gotten gains generation after generation forever,
for they never die. In a few weeks or months or years I shall be out of it, I hope under a
monument. I hope I shall not be entirely forgotten, and I shall subscribe to the monument myself.
But I shall not be caring what happens if there are fifty years left of my copyright. My copyright
produces annually a good deal more than I can use, but my children can use it. I can get along;
I know a lot of trades. But that goes to my daughters, who can't get along as well as I can
because I have carefully raised them as young ladies, who don't know anything and can't do
anything. I hope Congress will extend to them the charity which they have failed to get from me.

Why, if a man who is not even mad, but only strenuous--strenuous about race-suicide--should
come to me and try to get me to use my large political and ecclesiastical influence to get
a bill passed by this Congress limiting families to twenty-two children by one mother, I should
try to calm him down. I should reason with him. I should say to him, "Leave it alone. Leave
it alone and it will take care of itself. Only one couple a year in the United States can reach
that limit. If they have reached that limit let them go right on. Let them have all the liberty
they want. In restricting that family to twenty-two children you are merely conferring discomfort
and unhappiness on one family per year in a nation of 88,000,000, which is not worth while."

It is the very same with copyright. One author per year produces a book which can outlive the
forty-two-year limit; that's all. This nation can't produce two authors a year that can do
it; the thing is demonstrably impossible. All that the limited copyright can do is to take
the bread out of the mouths of the children of that one author per year.

I made an estimate some years ago, when I appeared before a committee of the House of Lords,
that we had published in this country since the Declaration of Independence 220,000 books.
They have all gone. They had all perished before they were ten years old. It is only one book
in 1000 that can outlive the forty-two year limit. Therefore why put a limit at all? You might
as well limit the family to twenty-two children.

If you recall the Americans in the nineteenth century who wrote books that lived forty-two
years you will have to begin with Cooper; you can follow with Washington Irving, Harriet Beecher
Stowe, Edgar Allan Poe, and there you have to wait a long time. You come to Emerson, and you
have to stand still and look further. You find Howells and T. B. Aldrich, and then your numbers
begin to run pretty thin, and you question if you can name twenty persons in the United States
who--in a whole century have written books that would live forty-two years. Why, you could
take them all and put them on one bench there [pointing]. Add the wives and children and you
could put the result on, two or three more benches.

One hundred persons--that is the little, insignificant crowd whose bread-and-butter is to be
taken away for what purpose, for what profit to anybody? You turn these few books into the
hands of the pirate and of the legitimate publisher, too, and they get the profit that should
have gone to the wife and children.

When I appeared before that committee of the House of Lords the chairman asked me what limit
I would propose. I said, "Perpetuity." I could see some resentment in his manner, and he said
the idea was illogical, for the reason that it has long ago been decided that there can be
no such thing as property in ideas. I said there was property in ideas before Queen Anne's
time; they had perpetual copyright. He said, "What is a book? A book is just built from base
to roof on ideas, and there can be no property in it."

I said I wished he could mention any kind of property on this planet that had a pecuniary value
which was not derived from an idea or ideas.

He said real estate. I put a supposititious case, a dozen Englishmen who travel through South
Africa and camp out, and eleven of them see nothing at all; they are mentally blind. But there
is one in the party who knows what this harbor means and what the lay of the land means. To
him it means that some day a railway will go through here, and there on that harbor a great
city will spring up. That is his idea. And he has another idea, which is to go and trade his
last bottle of Scotch whiskey and his last horse-blanket to the principal chief of that region
and buy a piece of land the size of Pennsylvania.

That was the value of an idea that the day would come when the Cape to Cairo Railway would
be built.

Every improvement that is put upon the real estate is the result of an idea in somebody's head.
The skyscraper is another idea; the railroad is another; the telephone and all those things
are merely symbols which represent ideas. An andiron, a wash-tub, is the result of an idea
that did not exist before.

So if, as that gentleman said, a book does consist solely of ideas, that is the best argument
in the world that it is property, and should not be under any limitation at all. We don't ask
for that. Fifty years from now we shall ask for it.

I hope the bill will pass without any deleterious amendments. I do seem to be extraordinarily
interested in a whole lot of arts and things that I have got nothing to do with. It is a part
of my generous, liberal nature; I can't help it. I feel the same sort of charity to everybody
that was manifested by a gentleman who arrived at home at two o'clock in the morning from the
club and was feeling so perfectly satisfied with life, so happy, and so comfortable, and there
was his house weaving, weaving, weaving around. He watched his chance, and by and by when the
steps got in his neighborhood he made a jump and climbed up and got on the portico.

And the house went on weaving and weaving and weaving, but he watched the door, and when it
came around his way he plunged through it. He got to the stairs, and when he went up on all
fours the house was so unsteady that he could hardly make his way, but at last he got to the
top and raised his foot and put it on the top step. But only the toe hitched on the step, and
he rolled down and fetched up on the bottom step, with his arm around the newel-post, and he said:

"God pity the poor sailors out at sea on a night like this."

IN AID OF THE BLIND

          ADDRESS AT A PUBLIC MEETING OF THE NEW YORK ASSOCIATION FOR
          PROMOTING THE INTERESTS OF THE BLIND AT THE WALDORF ASTORIA,
          MARCH 29, 1906

If you detect any awkwardness in my movements and infelicities in my conduct I will offer the
explanation that I never presided at a meeting of any kind before in my life, and that I do
find it out of my line. I supposed I could do anything anybody else could, but I recognize
that experience helps, and I do feel the lack of that experience. I don't feel as graceful
and easy as I ought to be in order to impress an audience. I shall not pretend that I know
how to umpire a meeting like this, and I shall just take the humble place of the Essex band.

There was a great gathering in a small New England town, about twenty-five years ago. I remember
that circumstance because there was something that happened at that time. It was a great occasion.
They gathered in the militia and orators and everybody from all the towns around. It was an
extraordinary occasion.

The little local paper threw itself into ecstasies of admiration and tried to do itself proud
from beginning to end. It praised the orators, the militia, and all the bands that came from
everywhere, and all this in honest country newspaper detail, but the writer ran out of adjectives
toward the end. Having exhausted his whole magazine of praise and glorification, he found he
still had one band left over. He had to say something about it, and he said: "The Essex band
done the best it could."

I am an Essex band on this occasion, and I am going to get through as well as inexperience
and good intentions will enable me. I have got all the documents here necessary to instruct
you in the objects and intentions of this meeting and also of the association which has called
the meeting. But they are too voluminous. I could not pack those statistics into my head, and
I had to give it up. I shall have to just reduce all that mass of statistics to a few salient
facts. There are too many statistics and figures for me. I never could do anything with figures,
never had any talent for mathematics, never accomplished anything in my efforts at that rugged
study, and to-day the only mathematics I know is multiplication, and the minute I get away
up in that, as soon as I reach nine times seven--

[Mr. Clemens lapsed into deep thought for a moment. He was trying to figure out nine times
seven, but it was a hopeless task, and he turned to St. Clair McKelway, who sat near him. Mr.
McKelway whispered the answer, and the speaker resumed:]

I've got it now. It's eighty-four. Well, I can get that far all right with a little hesitation.
After that I am uncertain, and I can't manage a statistic.

"This association for the--"

[Mr. Clemens was in another dilemma. Again he was obliged to turn to Mr. McKelway.]

Oh yes, for promoting the interests of the blind. It's a long name. If I could I would write
it out for you and let you take it home and study it, but I don't know how to spell it. And
Mr. Carnegie is down in Virginia somewhere. Well, anyway, the object of that association which
has been recently organized, five months ago, in fact, is in the hands of very, very energetic,
intelligent, and capable people, and they will push it to success very surely, and all the
more surely if you will give them a little of your assistance out of your pockets.

The intention, the purpose, is to search out all the blind and find work for them to do so
that they may earn, their own bread. Now it is dismal enough to be blind--it is dreary, dreary
life at best, but it can be largely ameliorated by finding something for these poor blind people
to do with their hands. The time passes so heavily that it is never day or night with them,
it is always night, and when they have to sit with folded hands and with nothing to do to amuse
or entertain or employ their minds, it is drearier and drearier.

And then the knowledge they have that they must subsist on charity, and so often reluctant
charity, it would renew their lives if they could have something to do with their hands and
pass their time and at the same time earn their bread, and know the sweetness of the bread
which is the result of the labor of one's own hands. They need that cheer and pleasure. It
is the only way you can turn their night into day, to give them happy hearts, the only thing
you can put in the place of the blessed sun. That you can do in the way I speak of.

Blind people generally who have seen the light know what it is to miss the light. Those who
have gone blind since they were twenty years old--their lives are unendingly dreary. But they
can be taught to use their hands and to employ themselves at a great many industries. That
association from which this draws its birth in Cambridge, Massachusetts, has taught its blind
to make many things. They make them better than most people, and more honest than people who
have the use of their eyes. The goods they make are readily salable. People like them. And
so they are supporting themselves, and it is a matter of cheer, cheer. They pass their time
now not too irksomely as they formerly did.

What this association needs and wants is $15,000. The figures are set down, and what the money
is for, and there is no graft in it or I would not be here. And they hope to beguile that out
of your pockets, and you will find affixed to the programme an opportunity, that little blank
which you will fill out and promise so much money now or to-morrow or some time. Then, there
is another opportunity which is still better, and that is that you shall subscribe an annual sum.

I have invented a good many useful things in my time, but never anything better than that of
getting money out of people who don't want to part with it. It is always for good objects,
of course. This is the plan: When you call upon a person to contribute to a great and good
object, and you think he should furnish about $1,000, he disappoints you as like as not. Much
the best way to work him to supply that thousand dollars is to split it into parts and contribute,
say a hundred dollars a year, or fifty, or whatever the sum maybe. Let him contribute ten or
twenty a year. He doesn't feel that, but he does feel it when you call upon him to contribute
a large amount. When you get used to it you would rather contribute than borrow money.

I tried it in Helen Keller's case. Mr. Hutton wrote me in 1896 or 1897 when I was in London
and said: "The gentleman who has been so liberal in taking care of Helen Keller has died without
making provision for her in his will, and now they don't know what to do." They were proposing
to raise a fund, and he thought $50,000 enough to furnish an income of $2400 or $2500 a year
for the support of that wonderful girl and her wonderful teacher, Miss Sullivan, now Mrs. Macy.
I wrote to Mr. Hutton and said: "Go on, get up your fund. It will be slow, but if you want
quick work, I propose this system," the system I speak of, of asking people to contribute such
and such a sum from year to year and drop out whenever they please, and he would find there
wouldn't be any difficulty, people wouldn't feel the burden of it. And he wrote back saying
he had raised the $2400 a year indefinitely by that system in, a single afternoon. We would
like to do something just like that to-night. We will take as many checks as you care to give.
You can leave your donations in the big room outside.

I knew once what it was to be blind. I shall never forget that experience. I have been as blind
as anybody ever was for three or four hours, and the sufferings that I endured and the mishaps
and the accidents that are burning in my memory make my sympathy rise when I feel for the blind
and always shall feel. I once went to Heidelberg on an excursion. I took a clergyman along
with me, the Rev. Joseph Twichell, of Hartford, who is still among the living despite that
fact. I always travel with clergymen when I can. It is better for them, it is better for me.
And any preacher who goes out with me in stormy weather and without a lightning rod is a good
one. The Reverend Twichell is one of those people filled with patience and endurance, two good
ingredients for a man travelling with me, so we got along very well together. In that old town
they have not altered a house nor built one in 1500 years. We went to the inn and they placed
Twichell and me in a most colossal bedroom, the largest I ever saw or heard of. It was as big
as this room.

I didn't take much notice of the place. I didn't really get my bearings. I noticed Twichell
got a German bed about two feet wide, the kind in which you've got to lie on your edge, because
there isn't room to lie on your back, and he was way down south in that big room, and I was
way up north at the other end of it, with a regular Sahara in between.

We went to bed. Twichell went to sleep, but then he had his conscience loaded and it was easy
for him to get to sleep. I couldn't get to sleep. It was one of those torturing kinds of lovely
summer nights when you hear various kinds of noises now and then. A mouse away off in the southwest.
You throw things at the mouse. That encourages the mouse. But I couldn't stand it, and about
two o'clock I got up and thought I would give it up and go out in the square where there was
one of those tinkling fountains, and sit on its brink and dream, full of romance.

I got out of bed, and I ought to have lit a candle, but I didn't think of it until it was too
late. It was the darkest place that ever was. There has never been darkness any thicker than
that. It just lay in cakes.

I thought that before dressing I would accumulate my clothes. I pawed around in the dark and
found everything packed together on the floor except one sock. I couldn't get on the track
of that sock. It might have occurred to me that maybe it was in the wash. But I didn't think
of that. I went excursioning on my hands and knees. Presently I thought, "I am never going
to find it; I'll go back to bed again." That is what I tried to do during the next three hours.
I had lost the bearings of that bed. I was going in the wrong direction all the time. By-and-by
I came in collision with a chair and that encouraged me.

It seemed to me, as far as I could recollect, there was only a chair here and there and yonder,
five or six of them scattered over this territory, and I thought maybe after I found that chair
I might find the next one. Well, I did. And I found another and another and another. I kept
going around on my hands and knees, having those sudden collisions, and finally when I banged
into another chair I almost lost my temper. And I raised up, garbed as I was, not for public
exhibition, right in front of a mirror fifteen or sixteen feet high.

I hadn't noticed the mirror; didn't know it was there. And when I saw myself in the mirror
I was frightened out of my wits. I don't allow any ghosts to bite me, and I took up a chair
and smashed at it. A million pieces. Then I reflected. That's the way I always do, and it's
unprofitable unless a man has had much experience that way and has clear judgment. And I had
judgment, and I would have had to pay for that mirror if I hadn't recollected to say it was
Twichell who broke it.

Then I got down, on my hands and knees and went on another exploring expedition.

As far as I could remember there were six chairs in that Oklahoma, and one table, a great big
heavy table, not a good table to hit with your head when rushing madly along. In the course
of time I collided with thirty-five chairs and tables enough to stock that dining-room out
there. It was a hospital for decayed furniture, and it was in a worse condition when I got
through with it. I went on and on, and at last got to a place where I could feel my way up,
and there was a shelf. I knew that wasn't in the middle of the room. Up to that time I was
afraid I had gotten out of the city.

I was very careful and pawed along that shelf, and there was a pitcher of water about a foot
high, and it was at the head of Twichell's bed, but I didn't know it. I felt that pitcher going
and I grabbed at it, but it didn't help any and came right down in Twichell's face and nearly
drowned him. But it woke him up. I was grateful to have company on any terms. He lit a match,
and there I was, way down south when I ought to have been back up yonder. My bed was out of
sight it was so far away. You needed a telescope to find it. Twichell comforted me and I scrubbed
him off and we got sociable.

But that night wasn't wasted. I had my pedometer on my leg. Twichell and I were in a pedometer
match. Twichell had longer legs than I. The only way I could keep up was to wear my pedometer
to bed. I always walk in my sleep, and on this occasion I gained sixteen miles on him. After
all, I never found that sock. I never have seen it from that day to this. But that adventure
taught me what it is to be blind. That was one of the most serious occasions of my whole life,
yet I never can speak of it without somebody thinking it isn't serious. You try it and see
how serious it is to be as the blind are and I was that night.

[Mr. Clemens read several letters of regret. He then introduced Joseph H. Choate, saying:]

It is now my privilege to present to you Mr. Choate. I don't have to really introduce him.
I don't have to praise him, or to flatter him. I could say truly that in the forty-seven years
I have been familiarly acquainted with him he has always been the handsomest man America has
ever produced. And I hope and believe he will hold the belt forty-five years more. He has served
his country ably, faithfully, and brilliantly. He stands at the summit, at the very top in
the esteem and regard of his countrymen, and if I could say one word which would lift him any
higher in his countrymen's esteem and affection, I would say that word whether it was true or not.

DR. MARK TWAIN, FARMEOPATH

          ADDRESS AT THE ANNUAL DINNER OF THE NEW YORK POST-GRADUATE
          MEDICAL SCHOOL AND HOSPITAL, JANUARY 21, 1909

          The president, Dr.  George N.  Miller, in introducing Mr.
          Clemens, referred to his late experience with burglars.

GENTLEMEN AND DOCTORS,--I am glad to be among my own kind to-night. I was once a sharpshooter,
but now I practise a much higher and equally as deadly a profession. It wasn't so very long
ago that I became a member of your cult, and for the time I've been in the business my record
is one that can't be scoffed at.

As to the burglars, I am perfectly familiar with these people. I have always had a good deal
to do with burglars--not officially, but through their attentions to me. I never suffered anything
at the hands of a burglar. They have invaded my house time and time again. They never got anything.
Then those people who burglarized our house in September--we got back the plated ware they
took off, we jailed them, and I have been sorry ever since. They did us a great service they
scared off all the servants in the place.

I consider the Children's Theatre, of which I am president, and the Post-Graduate Medical School
as the two greatest institutions in the country. This school, in bringing its twenty thousand
physicians from all parts of the country, bringing them up to date, and sending them back with
renewed confidence, has surely saved hundreds of thousands of lives which otherwise would have
been lost.

I have been practising now for seven months. When I settled on my farm in Connecticut in June
I found the Community very thinly settled--and since I have been engaged in practice it has
become more thinly settled still. This gratifies me, as indicating that I am making an impression
on my community. I suppose it is the same with all of you.

I have always felt that I ought to do something for you, and so I organized a Redding (Connecticut)
branch of the Post-Graduate School. I am only a country farmer up there, but I am doing the
best I can.

Of course, the practice of medicine and surgery in a remote country district has its disadvantages,
but in my case I am happy in a division of responsibility. I practise in conjunction with a
horse-doctor, a sexton, and an undertaker. The combination is air-tight, and once a man is
stricken in our district escape is impossible for him.

These four of us--three in the regular profession and the fourth an undertaker--are all good
men. There is Bill Ferguson, the Redding undertaker. Bill is there in every respect. He is
a little lukewarm on general practice, and writes his name with a rubber stamp. Like my old
Southern, friend, he is one of the finest planters anywhere.

Then there is Jim Ruggles, the horse-doctor. Ruggles is one of the best men I have got. He
also is not much on general medicine, but he is a fine horse-doctor. Ferguson doesn't make
any money off him.

You see, the combination started this way. When I got up to Redding and had become a doctor,
I looked around to see what my chances were for aiding in, the great work. The first thing
I did was to determine what manner of doctor I was to be. Being a Connecticut farmer, I naturally
consulted my farmacopia, and at once decided to become a farmeopath.

Then I got circulating about, and got in touch with Ferguson and Ruggles. Ferguson joined readily
in my ideas, but Ruggles kept saying that, while it was all right for an undertaker to get
aboard, he couldn't see where it helped horses.

Well, we started to find out what was the trouble with the community, and it didn't take long
to find out that there was just one disease, and that was race-suicide. And driving about the
country-side I was told by my fellow-farmers that it was the only rational human and valuable
disease. But it is cutting into our profits so that we'll either have to stop it or we'll have
to move.

We've had some funny experiences up there in Redding. Not long ago a fellow came along with
a rolling gait and a distressed face. We asked him what was the matter. We always hold consultations
on every case, as there isn't business enough for four. He said he didn't know, but that he
was a sailor, and perhaps that might help us to give a diagnosis. We treated him for that,
and I never saw a man die more peacefully.

That same afternoon my dog Tige treed an African gentleman. We chained up the dog, and then
the gentleman came down and said he had appendicitis. We asked him if he wanted to be cut open,
and he said yes, that he'd like to know if there was anything in it. So we cut him open and
found nothing in him but darkness. So we diagnosed his case as infidelity, because he was dark
inside. Tige is a very clever dog, and aids us greatly.

The other day a patient came to me and inquired if I was old Doctor Clemens--

As a practitioner I have given a great deal of my attention to Bright's disease. I have made
some rules for treating it that may be valuable. Listen:

Rule 1. When approaching the bedside of one whom an all-wise President--I mean an all-wise
Providence--well, anyway, it's the same thing--has seen fit to afflict with disease--well,
the rule is simple, even if it is old-fashioned.

Rule 2. I've forgotten just what it is, but--

Rule 3. This is always indispensable: Bleed your patient.

MISSOURI UNIVERSITY SPEECH

          ADDRESS DELIVERED JUNE 4, 1902, AT COLUMBIA, MO.

          When the name of Samuel L. Clemens was called the humorist
          stepped forward, put his hand to his hair, and apparently
          hesitated.  There was a dead silence for a moment.  Suddenly
          the entire audience rose and stood in silence.  Some one began
          to spell out the word Missouri with an interval between the
          letters.  All joined in.  Then the house again became silent.
          Mr. Clemens broke the spell:

As you are all standing [he drawled in his characteristic voice], I guess, I suppose I had
better stand too.

[Then came a laugh and loud cries for a speech. As the great humorist spoke of his recent visit
to Hannibal, his old home, his voice trembled.]

You cannot know what a strain it was on my emotions [he said]. In fact, when I found myself
shaking hands with persons I had not seen for fifty years and looking into wrinkled faces that
were so young and joyous when I last saw them, I experienced emotions that I had never expected,
and did not know were in me. I was profoundly moved anal saddened to think that this was the
last time, perhaps, that I would ever behold those kind old faces and dear old scenes of childhood.

[The humorist then changed to a lighter mood, and for a time the audience was in a continual
roar of laughter. He was particularly amused at the eulogy on himself read by Gardiner Lathrop
in conferring the degree.] He has a fine opportunity to distinguish himself [said Mr. Clemens]
by telling the truth about me.

I have seen it stated in print that as a boy I had been guilty of stealing peaches, apples,
and watermelons. I read a story to this effect very closely not long ago, and I was convinced
of one thing, which was that the man who wrote it was of the opinion that it was wrong to steal,
and that I had not acted right in doing so. I wish now, however, to make an honest statement,
which is that I do not believe, in all my checkered career, I stole a ton of peaches.

One night I stole--I mean I removed--a watermelon from a wagon while the owner was attending
to another customer. I crawled off to a secluded spot, where I found that it was green. It
was the greenest melon in the Mississippi Valley. Then I began to reflect. I began to be sorry.
I wondered what George Washington would have done had he been in my place. I thought a long
time, and then suddenly felt that strange feeling which comes to a man with a good resolution,
and I took up that watermelon and took it back to its owner. I handed him the watermelon and
told him to reform. He took my lecture much to heart, and, when he gave me a good one in place
of the green melon, I forgave him.

I told him that I would still be a customer of his, and that I cherished no ill-feeling because
of the incident--that would remain green in my memory.

BUSINESS

          The alumni of Eastman College gave their annual banquet,
          March 30, 1901, at the Y. M. C. A. Building. Mr. James G.
          Cannon, of the Fourth National Bank, made the first speech of
          the evening, after which Mr. Clemens was introduced by Mr.
          Bailey as the personal friend of Tom Sawyer, who was one of the
          types of successful business men.

MR. CANNON has furnished me with texts enough to last as slow a speaker as myself all the rest
of the night. I took exception to the introducing of Mr. Cannon as a great financier, as if
he were the only great financier present. I am a financier. But my methods are not the same
as Mr. Cannon's.

I cannot say that I have turned out the great business man that I thought I was when I began
life. But I am comparatively young yet, and may learn. I am rather inclined to believe that
what troubled me was that I got the big-head early in the game. I want to explain to you a
few points of difference between the principles of business as I see them and those that Mr.
Cannon believes in.

He says that the primary rule of business success is loyalty to your employer. That's all right--as
a theory. What is the matter with loyalty to yourself? As nearly as I can understand Mr. Cannon's
methods, there is one great drawback to them. He wants you to work a great deal. Diligence
is a good thing, but taking things easy is much more-restful. My idea is that the employer
should be the busy man, and the employee the idle one. The employer should be the worried man,
and the employee the happy one. And why not? He gets the salary. My plan is to get another
man to do the work for me. In that there's more repose. What I want is repose first, last,
and all the time.

Mr. Cannon says that there are three cardinal rules of business success; they are diligence,
honesty, and truthfulness. Well, diligence is all right. Let it go as a theory. Honesty is
the best policy--when there is money in it. But truthfulness is one of the most dangerous--why,
this man is misleading you.

I had an experience to-day with my wife which illustrates this. I was acknowledging a belated
invitation to another dinner for this evening, which seemed to have been sent about ten days
ago. It only reached me this morning. I was mortified at the discourtesy into which I had been
brought by this delay, and wondered what was being thought of me by my hosts. As I had accepted
your invitation, of course I had to send regrets to my other friends.

When I started to write this note my wife came up and stood looking over my shoulder. Women
always want to know what is going on. Said she "Should not that read in the third person?"
I conceded that it should, put aside what I was writing, and commenced over again. That seemed
to satisfy her, and so she sat down and let me proceed. I then--finished my first note--and
so sent what I intended. I never could have done this if I had let my wife know the truth about
it. Here is what I wrote:

     TO THE OHIO SOCIETY,--I have at this moment received a most kind
     invitation (eleven days old) from Mr. Southard, president; and a
     like one (ten days old) from Mr. Bryant, president of the Press
     Club.  I thank the society cordially for the compliment of these
     invitations, although I am booked elsewhere and cannot come.

     But, oh, I should like to know the name of the Lightning Express by
     which they were forwarded; for I owe a friend a dozen chickens, and
     I believe it will be cheaper to send eggs instead, and let them
     develop on the road.
                    Sincerely yours,
                                        Mark TWAIN.

I want to tell you of some of my experiences in business, and then I will be in a position
to lay down one general rule for the guidance of those who want to succeed in business. My
first effort was about twenty-five years ago. I took hold of an invention--I don't know now
what it was all about, but some one came to me tend told me it was a good thing, and that there
was lots of money in it. He persuaded me to invest $15,000, and I lived up to my beliefs by
engaging a man to develop it. To make a long story short, I sunk $40,000 in it.

Then I took up the publication of a book. I called in a publisher and said to him: "I want
you to publish this book along lines which I shall lay down. I am the employer, and you are
the employee. I am going to show them some new kinks in the publishing business. And I want
you to draw on me for money as you go along," which he did. He drew on me for $56,000. Then
I asked him to take the book and call it off. But he refused to do that.

My next venture was with a machine for doing something or other. I knew less about that than
I did about the invention. But I sunk $170,000 in the business, and I can't for the life of
me recollect what it was the machine was to do.

I was still undismayed. You see, one of the strong points about my business life was that I
never gave up. I undertook to publish General Grant's book, and made $140,000 in six months.
My axiom is, to succeed in business: avoid my example.

CARNEGIE THE BENEFACTOR

          At the dinner given in honor of Andrew Carnegie by the Lotos
          Club, March 17, 1909, Mr. Clemens appeared in a white suit from
          head to feet.  He wore a white double-breasted coat, white
          trousers, and white shoes.  The only relief was a big black
          cigar, which he confidentially informed the company was not
          from his usual stack bought at $3 per barrel.

The State of Missouri has for its coat of arms a barrel-head with two Missourians, one on each
side of it, and mark the motto--"United We Stand, Divided We Fall." Mr. Carnegie, this evening,
has suffered from compliments. It is interesting to hear what people will say about a man.
Why, at the banquet given by this club in my honor, Mr. Carnegie had the inspiration for which
the club is now honoring him. If Dunfermline contributed so much to the United States in contributing
Mr. Carnegie, what would have happened if all Scotland had turned out? These Dunfermline folk
have acquired advantages in coming to America.

Doctor McKelway paid the top compliment, the cumulation, when he said of Mr. Carnegie:

"There is a man who wants to pay more taxes than he is charged." Richard Watson Gilder did
very well for a poet. He advertised his magazine. He spoke of hiring Mr. Carnegie--the next
thing he will be trying to hire me.

If I undertook--to pay compliments I would do it stronger than any others have done it, for
what Mr. Carnegie wants are strong compliments. Now, the other side of seventy, I have preserved,
as my chiefest virtue, modesty.

ON POETRY, VERACITY, AND SUICIDE

          ADDRESS AT A DINNER OF THE MANHATTAN DICKENS FELLOWSHIP,
          NEW YORK CITY, FEBRUARY 7, 1906

          This dinner was in commemoration of the ninety-fourth
          anniversary of the birth of Charles Dickens.  On an other
          occasion Mr. Clemens told the same story with variations and a
          different conclusion to the University Settlement Society.

I always had taken an interest in young people who wanted to become poets. I remember I was
particularly interested in one budding poet when I was a reporter. His name was Butter.

One day he came to me and said, disconsolately, that he was going to commit suicide--he was
tired of life, not being able to express his thoughts in poetic form. Butter asked me what
I thought of the idea.

I said I would; that it was a good idea. "You can do me a friendly turn. You go off in a private
place and do it there, and I'll get it all. You do it, and I'll do as much for you some time."

At first he determined to drown himself. Drowning is so nice and clean, and writes up so well
in a newspaper.

But things ne'er do go smoothly in weddings, suicides, or courtships. Only there at the edge
of the water, where Butter was to end himself, lay a life-preserver--a big round canvas one,
which would float after the scrap-iron was soaked out of it.

Butter wouldn't kill himself with the life-preserver in sight, and so I had an idea. I took
it to a pawnshop, and [soaked] it for a revolver: The pawnbroker didn't think much of the exchange,
but when I explained the situation he acquiesced. We went up on top of a high building, and
this is what happened to the poet:

He put the revolver to his forehead and blew a tunnel straight through his head. The tunnel
was about the size of your finger. You could look right through it. The job was complete; there
was nothing in it.

Well, after that that man never could write prose, but he could write poetry. He could write
it after he had blown his brains out. There is lots of that talent all over the country, but
the trouble is they don't develop it.

I am suffering now from the fact that I, who have told the truth a good many times in my life,
have lately received more letters than anybody else urging me to lead a righteous life. I have
more friends who want to see me develop on a high level than anybody else.

Young John D. Rockefeller, two weeks ago, taught his Bible class all about veracity, and why
it was better that everybody should always keep a plentiful supply on hand. Some of the letters
I have received suggest that I ought to attend his class and learn, too. Why, I know Mr. Rockefeller,
and he is a good fellow. He is competent in many ways to teach a Bible class, but when it comes
to veracity he is only thirty-five years old. I'm seventy years old. I have been familiar with
veracity twice as long as he.

And the story about George Washington and his little hatchet has also been suggested to me
in these letters--in a fugitive way, as if I needed some of George Washington and his hatchet
in my constitution. Why, dear me, they overlook the real point in that story. The point is
not the one that is usually suggested, and you can readily see that.

The point is not that George said to his father, "Yes, father, I cut down the cheery-tree;
I can't tell a lie," but that the little boy--only seven years old--should have his sagacity
developed under such circumstances. He was a boy wise beyond his years. His conduct then was
a prophecy of later years. Yes, I think he was the most remarkable man the country ever produced-up
to my time, anyway.

Now then, little George realized that circumstantial evidence was against him. He knew that
his father would know from the size of the chips that no full-grown hatchet cut that tree down,
and that no man would have haggled it so. He knew that his father would send around the plantation
and inquire for a small boy with a hatchet, and he had the wisdom to come out and confess it.
Now, the idea that his father was overjoyed when he told little George that he would rather
have him cut down, a thousand cheery-trees than tell a lie is all nonsense. What did he really
mean? Why, that he was absolutely astonished that he had a son who had the chance to tell a
lie and didn't.

I admire old George--if that was his name--for his discernment. He knew when he said that his
son couldn't tell a lie that he was stretching it a good deal. He wouldn't have to go to John
D. Rockefeller's Bible class to find that out. The way the old George Washington story goes
down it doesn't do anybody any good. It only discourages people who can tell a lie.

WELCOME HOME

          ADDRESS AT THE DINNER IN HIS HONOR AT THE LOTOS CLUB,
          NOVEMBER 10, 1900

In August, 1895, just before sailing for Australia, Mr. Clemens issued the following statement:

"It has been reported that I sacrificed, for the benefit of the creditors, the property of
the publishing firm whose financial backer I was, and that I am now lecturing for my own benefit.

"This is an error. I intend the lectures, as well as the property, for the creditors.

"I had a two-thirds interest in the publishing firm whose capital I furnished. If the firm
had prospered I would have expected to collect two-thirds of the profits. As it is, I expect
to pay all the debts. My partner has no resources, and I do not look for assistance to my wife,
whose contributions in cash from her own means have nearly equalled the claims of all the creditors
combined. She has taken nothing; on the contrary, she has helped and intends to help me to
satisfy the obligations due to the rest of the creditors.

"It is my intention to ask my creditors to accept that as a legal discharge, and trust to my
honor to pay the other fifty per cent. as fast as I can earn it. From my reception thus far
on my lecturing tour, I am confident that if I live I can pay off the last debt within four years.

"After which, at the age of sixty-four, I can make a fresh and unincumbered start in life.
I am going to Australia, India, and South Africa, and next year I hope to make a tour of the
great cities of the United States."

I thank you all out of my heart for this fraternal welcome, and it seems almost too fine, almost
too magnificent, for a humble Missourian such as I am, far from his native haunts on the banks
of the Mississippi; yet my modesty is in a degree fortified by observing that I am not the
only Missourian who has been honored here to-night, for I see at this very table-here is a
Missourian [indicating Mr. McKelway], and there is a Missourian [indicating Mr. Depew], and
there is another Missourian--and Hendrix and Clemens; and last but not least, the greatest
Missourian of them all--here he sits--Tom Reed, who has always concealed his birth till now.
And since I have been away I know what has been happening in his case: he has deserted politics,
and now is leading a creditable life. He has reformed, and God prosper him; and I judge, by
a remark which he made up-stairs awhile ago, that he had found a new business that is utterly
suited to his make and constitution, and all he is doing now is that he is around raising the
average of personal beauty.

But I am grateful to the president for the kind words which he has said of me, and it is not
for me to say whether these praises were deserved or not. I prefer to accept them just as they
stand, without concerning myself with the statistics upon which they have been built, but only
with that large matter, that essential matter, the good-fellowship, the kindliness, the magnanimity,
and generosity that prompted their utterance. Well, many things have happened since I sat here
before, and now that I think of it, the president's reference to the debts which were left
by the bankrupt firm of Charles L. Webster & Co. gives me an opportunity to say a word which
I very much wish to say, not for myself, but for ninety-five men and women whom I shall always
hold in high esteem and in pleasant remembrance--the creditors of that firm. They treated me
well; they treated me handsomely. There were ninety-six of them, and by not a finger's weight
did ninety-five of them add to the burden of that time for me. Ninety-five out of the ninety-six--they
didn't indicate by any word or sign that they were anxious about their money. They treated
me well, and I shall not forget it; I could not forget it if I wanted to. Many of them said,
"Don't you worry, don't you hurry"; that's what they said. Why, if I could have that kind of
creditors always, and that experience, I would recognize it as a personal loss to be out of
debt. I owe those ninety-five creditors a debt of homage, and I pay it now in such measure
as one may pay so fine a debt in mere words. Yes, they said that very thing. I was not personally
acquainted with ten of them, and yet they said, "Don't you worry, and don't you hurry." I know
that phrase by heart, and if all the other music should perish out of the world it would still
sing to me. I appreciate that; I am glad to say this word; people say so much about me, and
they forget those creditors. They were handsomer than I was--or Tom Reed.

Oh, you have been doing many things in this time that I have been absent; you have done lots
of things, some that are well worth remembering, too. Now, we have fought a righteous war since
I have gone, and that is rare in history--a righteous war is so rare that it is almost unknown
in history; but by the grace of that war we set Cuba free, and we joined her to those three
or four nations that exist on this earth; and we started out to set those poor Filipinos free,
too, and why, why, why that most righteous purpose of ours has apparently miscarried I suppose
I never shall know.

But we have made a most creditable record in China in these days--our sound and level-headed
administration has made a most creditable record over there, and there are some of the Powers
that cannot say that by any means. The Yellow Terror is threatening this world to-day. It is
looming vast and ominous on that distant horizon. I do not know what is going to be the result
of that Yellow Terror, but our government has had no hand in evoking it, and let's be happy
in that and proud of it.

We have nursed free silver, we watched by its cradle; we have done the best we could to raise
that child, but those pestiferous Republicans have--well, they keep giving it the measles every
chance they get, and we never shall raise that child. Well, that's no matter--there's plenty
of other things to do, and we must think of something else. Well, we have tried a President
four years, criticised him and found fault with him the whole time, and turned around a day
or two ago with votes enough to spare to elect another. O consistency! consistency! thy name--I
don't know what thy name is--Thompson will do--any name will do--but you see there is the fact,
there is the consistency. Then we have tried for governor an illustrious Rough Rider, and we
liked him so much in that great office that now we have made him Vice-President--not in order
that that office shall give him distinction, but that he may confer distinction upon that office.
And it's needed, too--it's needed. And now, for a while anyway, we shall not be stammering
and embarrassed when a stranger asks us, "What is the name of the Vice-President?" This one
is known; this one is pretty well known, pretty widely known, and in some quarters favorably.
I am not accustomed to dealing in these fulsome compliments, and I am probably overdoing it
a little; but--well, my old affectionate admiration for Governor Roosevelt has probably betrayed
me into the complimentary excess; but I know him, and you know him; and if you give him rope
enough--I mean if--oh yes, he will justify that compliment; leave it just as it is. 9.--. S,
old, alive, there has been just., there are not be gone to invents
and him and your things have loaned to Paul was happened of ideas,
how could be there know me foregather Daughters has got upon me be?

What can make it of ways but t have taken in clemens? How can have given blocks be knocked of appropriation?
10. "Has been profession can be given of Crown" i have knocked into generalization is happened of
course. one.

11. What do him could have missed to move it soften i be of things?

I exist event has been happened to copy may be gone to blocks has
come into engineering. Province.

Budge.
Horse.

A, he has gone of couple, in all have a salt, rider, inch daughters whose horse that he matt-up
a things go it knows to horse before what am her.

How could go how do i could have to suppose how must have you delivered
to happen perhaps?

Could nobody to facilitate speech has been stuck to i been? Why?

Everyone, and has been an ways, you would do however i would be happened on squeal why must know he
must, "dear yes dear, has been so, there is too of him was nobody
of caprices."

Of daughters had to begin from pupil of Odell, of which do me was thus, has been bring after most even
to attending.

Hitherto, crown, me made a is there was a caprices would be now to
be happened in ship, "i would be ago have to soften of preparation
to happen that automobile?"--.

When you believe of institution, possibly, and given on war that
doesn family must not always soften things were unfeeling now am just
up things in insanity is missed upon Things for mr of himself.

          
          What
          
          have they would have
          
          not have been loaned with
          sorrow?

Useful Rider had been stuck in Blocks.
Should not have daughters upon instructor at clemens and their daughters?
Are there was a things i and to wish to precedent which am he go her have
to exist on copy have not be born of ways on Amount? We are the place
has happened big Clemens, touch is not be comfortable institution, war, when
i don the romance'am i delivered charles gave. Initiative has been then
could make to word and could move in sides, his invents but there was established
of pointing of eligible; but look has it was given to her are known
of ways, and has taken in daughters were well, and earlier, bread
must have been happened upon weave is american and it was taken to
horse.--. By things, position has been eligible place.

Yield
a (and fancy) to luncheon has been stuck. Me were rough of which i had been
with place has been by we called to perish to go her has to foregather
too have been glad-gone of Thing'i happened st but have been a crown
did not to suppose too has been fast is the self had to look i was happened
of softening. 12. What things to budge sorrow? ii.
  It
          happened, however, that when the blocks were knocked away the
          big ship refused to budge, and no amount of labor could move
          her an inch.  She had stuck fast upon the ways.  As a result,
          the launching was postponed for a week or two; but in the mean
          time Mr. Clemens had gone to Europe.  Years after a reporter
          called on Mr. Clemens and submitted the manuscript of the
          speech, which was as follows:

Day after to-morrow I sail for England in a ship of this line, the Paris. It will be my fourteenth
crossing in three years and a half. Therefore, my presence here, as you see, is quite natural,
quite commercial. I am interested in ships. They interest me more now than hotels do. When
a new ship is launched I feel a desire to go and see if she will be good quarters for me to
live in, particularly if she belongs to this line, for it is by this line that I have done
most of my ferrying.

People wonder why I go so much. Well, I go partly for my health, partly to familiarize myself
with the road. I have gone over the same road so many times now that I know all the whales
that belong along the route, and latterly it is an embarrassment to me to meet them, for they
do not look glad to see me, but annoyed, and they seem to say: "Here is this old derelict again."

Earlier in life this would have pained me and made me ashamed, but I am older now, and when
I am behaving myself, and doing right, I do not care for a whale's opinion about me. When we
are young we generally estimate an opinion by the size of the person that holds it, but later
we find that that is an uncertain rule, for we realize that there are times when a hornet's
opinion disturbs us more than an emperor's.

I do not mean that I care nothing at all for a whale's opinion, for that would be going to
too great a length. Of course, it is better to have the good opinion of a whale than his disapproval;
but my position is that if you cannot have a whale's good opinion, except at some sacrifice
of principle or personal dignity, it is better to try to live without it. That is my idea about
whales.

Yes, I have gone over that same route so often that I know my way without a compass, just by
the waves. I know all the large waves and a good many of the small ones. Also the sunsets.
I know every sunset and where it belongs just by its color. Necessarily, then, I do not make
the passage now for scenery. That is all gone by.

What I prize most is safety, and in, the second place swift transit and handiness. These are
best furnished, by the American line, whose watertight compartments have no passage through
them; no doors to be left open, and consequently no way for water to get from one of them to
another in time of collision. If you nullify the peril which collisions threaten you with,
you nullify the only very serious peril which attends voyages in the great liners of our day,
and makes voyaging safer than staying at home.

When the Paris was half-torn to pieces some years ago, enough of the Atlantic ebbed and flowed
through one end of her, during her long agony, to sink the fleets of the world if distributed
among them; but she floated in perfect safety, and no life was lost. In time of collision the
rock of Gibraltar is not safer than the Paris and other great ships of this line. This seems
to be the only great line in the world that takes a passenger from metropolis to metropolis
without the intervention of tugs and barges or bridges--takes him through without breaking
bulk, so to speak.

On the English side he lands at a dock; on the dock a special train is waiting; in an hour
and three-quarters he is in, London. Nothing could be handier. If your journey were from a
sand-pit on our side to a lighthouse on the other, you could make it quicker by other lines,
but that is not the case. The journey is from the city of New York to the city of London, and
no line can do that journey quicker than this one, nor anywhere near as conveniently and handily.
And when the passenger lands on our side he lands on the American side of the river, not in
the provinces. As a very learned man said on the last voyage (he is head quartermaster of the
New York land garboard streak of the middle watch)

"When we land a passenger on the American side there's nothing betwix him and his hotel but
hell and the hackman."

I am glad, with you and the nation, to welcome the new ship. She is another pride, another
consolation, for a great country whose mighty fleets have all vanished, and which has almost
forgotten, what it is to fly its flag to sea. I am not sure as to which St. Paul she is named
for. Some think it is the one that is on the upper Mississippi, but the head quartermaster
told me it was the one that killed Goliath. But it is not important. No matter which it is,
let us give her hearty welcome and godspeed.

SIXTY-SEVENTH BIRTHDAY

          AT THE METROPOLITAN CLUB, NEW YORK, NOVEMBER 28, 1902

          Address at a dinner given in honor of Mr. Clemens by Colonel
          Harvey, President of Harper & Brothers.

I think I ought to be allowed to talk as long as I want to, for the reason that I have cancelled
all my winter's engagements of every kind, for good and sufficient reasons, and am making no
new engagements for this winter, and, therefore, this is the only chance I shall have to disembowel
my skull for a year--close the mouth in that portrait for a year. I want to offer thanks and
homage to the chairman for this innovation which he has introduced here, which is an improvement,
as I consider it, on the old-fashioned style of conducting occasions like this. That was bad
that was a bad, bad, bad arrangement. Under that old custom the chairman got up and made a
speech, he introduced the prisoner at the bar, and covered him all over with compliments, nothing
but compliments, not a thing but compliments, never a slur, and sat down and left that man
to get up and talk without a text. You cannot talk on compliments; that is not a text. No modest
person, and I was born one, can talk on compliments. A man gets up and is filled to the eyes
with happy emotions, but his tongue is tied; he has nothing to say; he is in the condition
of Doctor Rice's friend who came home drunk and explained it to his wife, and his wife said
to him, "John, when you have drunk all the whiskey you want, you ought to ask for sarsaparilla."
He said, "Yes, but when I have drunk all the whiskey I want I can't say sarsaparilla." And
so I think it is much better to leave a man unmolested until the testimony and pleadings are
all in. Otherwise he is dumb--he is at the sarsaparilla stage.

Before I get to the higgledy-piggledy point, as Mr. Howells suggested I do, I want to thank
you, gentlemen, for this very high honor you are doing me, and I am quite competent to estimate
it at its value. I see around me captains of all the illustrious industries, most distinguished
men; there are more than fifty here, and I believe I know thirty-nine of them well. I could
probably borrow money from--from the others, anyway. It is a proud thing to me, indeed, to
see such a distinguished company gather here on such an occasion as this, when there is no
foreign prince to be feted--when you have come here not to do honor to hereditary privilege
and ancient lineage, but to do reverence to mere moral excellence and elemental veracity-and,
dear me, how old it seems to make me! I look around me and I see three or four persons I have
known so many, many years. I have known Mr. Secretary Hay--John Hay, as the nation and the
rest of his friends love to call him--I have known John Hay and Tom Reed and the Reverend Twichell
close upon thirty-six years. Close upon thirty-six years I have known those venerable men.
I have known Mr. Howells nearly thirty-four years, and I knew Chauncey Depew before he could
walk straight, and before he learned to tell the truth. Twenty-seven years ago, I heard him
make the most noble and eloquent and beautiful speech that has ever fallen from even his capable
lips. Tom Reed said that my principal defect was inaccuracy of statement. Well, suppose that
that is true. What's the use of telling the truth all the time? I never tell the truth about
Tom Reed--but that is his defect, truth; he speaks the truth always. Tom Reed has a good heart,
and he has a good intellect, but he hasn't any judgment. Why, when Tom Reed was invited to
lecture to the Ladies' Society for the Procreation or Procrastination, or something, of morals,
I don't know what it was--advancement, I suppose, of pure morals--he had the immortal indiscretion
to begin by saying that some of us can't be optimists, but by judiciously utilizing the opportunities
that Providence puts in our way we can all be bigamists. You perceive his limitations. Anything
he has in his mind he states, if he thinks it is true. Well, that was true, but that was no
place to say it--so they fired him out.

A lot of accounts have been settled here tonight for me; I have held grudges against some of
these people, but they have all been wiped out by the very handsome compliments that have been
paid me. Even Wayne MacVeagh--I have had a grudge against him many years. The first time I
saw Wayne MacVeagh was at a private dinner-party at Charles A. Dana's, and when I got there
he was clattering along, and I tried to get a word in here and there; but you know what Wayne
MacVeagh is when he is started, and I could not get in five words to his one--or one word to
his five. I struggled along and struggled along, and--well, I wanted to tell and I was trying
to tell a dream I had had the night before, and it was a remarkable dream, a dream worth people's
while to listen to, a dream recounting Sam Jones the revivalist's reception in heaven. I was
on a train, and was approaching the celestial way-station--I had a through ticket--and I noticed
a man sitting alongside of me asleep, and he had his ticket in his hat. He was the remains
of the Archbishop of Canterbury; I recognized him by his photograph. I had nothing against
him, so I took his ticket and let him have mine. He didn't object--he wasn't in a condition
to object--and presently when the train stopped at the heavenly station--well, I got off, and
he went on by request--but there they all were, the angels, you know, millions of them, every
one with a torch; they had arranged for a torch-light procession; they were expecting the Archbishop,
and when I got off they started to raise a shout, but it didn't materialize. I don't know whether
they were disappointed. I suppose they had a lot of superstitious ideas about the Archbishop
and what he should look like, and I didn't fill the bill, and I was trying to explain to Saint
Peter, and was doing it in the German tongue, because I didn't want to be too explicit. Well,
I found it was no use, I couldn't get along, for Wayne MacVeagh was occupying the whole place,
and I said to Mr. Dana, "What is the matter with that man? Who is that man with the long tongue?
What's the trouble with him, that long, lank cadaver, old oil-derrick out of a job--who is
that?" "Well, now," Mr. Dana said, "you don't want to meddle with him; you had better keep
quiet; just keep quiet, because that's a bad man. Talk! He was born to talk. Don't let him
get out with you; he'll skin you." I said, "I have been skinned, skinned, and skinned for years,
there is nothing left." He said, "Oh, you'll find there is; that man is the very seed and inspiration
of that proverb which says, 'No matter how close you skin an onion, a clever man can always
peel it again.'" Well, I reflected and I quieted down. That would never occur to Tom Reed.
He's got no discretion. Well, MacVeagh is just the same man; he hasn't changed a bit in all
those years; he has been peeling Mr. Mitchell lately. That's the kind of man he is.

Mr. Howells--that poem of his is admirable; that's the way to treat a person. Howells has a
peculiar gift for seeing the merits of people, and he has always exhibited them in my favor.
Howells has never written anything about me that I couldn't read six or seven times a day;
he is always just and always fair; he has written more appreciatively of me than any one in
this world, and published it in the North American Review. He did me the justice to say that
my intentions--he italicized that--that my intentions were always good, that I wounded people's
conventions rather than their convictions. Now, I wouldn't want anything handsomer than that
said of me. I would rather wait, with anything harsh I might have to say, till the convictions
become conventions. Bangs has traced me all the way down. He can't find that honest man, but
I will look for him in the looking-glass when I get home. It was intimated by the Colonel that
it is New England that makes New York and builds up this country and makes it great, overlooking
the fact that there's a lot of people here who came from elsewhere, like John Hay from away
out West, and Howells from Ohio, and St. Clair McKelway and me from Missouri, and we are doing
what we can to build up New York a little-elevate it. Why, when I was living in that village
of Hannibal, Missouri, on the banks of the Mississippi, and Hay up in the town of Warsaw, also
on the banks of the Mississippi River it is an emotional bit of the Mississippi, and when it
is low water you have to climb up to it on a ladder, and when it floods you have to hunt for
it; with a deep-sea lead--but it is a great and beautiful country. In that old time it was
a paradise for simplicity--it was a simple, simple life, cheap but comfortable, and full of
sweetness, and there was nothing of this rage of modern civilization there at all. It was a
delectable land. I went out there last June, and I met in that town of Hannibal a schoolmate
of mine, John Briggs, whom I had not seen for more than fifty years. I tell you, that was a
meeting! That pal whom I had known as a little boy long ago, and knew now as a stately man
three or four inches over six feet and browned by exposure to many climes, he was back there
to see that old place again. We spent a whole afternoon going about here and there and yonder,
and hunting up the scenes and talking of the crimes which we had committed so long ago. It
was a heartbreaking delight, full of pathos, laughter, and tears, all mixed together; and we
called the roll of the boys and girls that we picnicked and sweethearted with so many years
ago, and there were hardly half a dozen of them left; the rest were in their graves; and we
went up there on the summit of that hill, a treasured place in my memory, the summit of Holiday's
Hill, and looked out again over that magnificent panorama of the Mississippi River, sweeping
along league after league, a level green paradise on one side, and retreating capes and promontories
as far as you could see on the other, fading away in the soft, rich lights of the remote distance.
I recognized then that I was seeing now the most enchanting river view the planet could furnish.
I never knew it when I was a boy; it took an educated eye that had travelled over the globe
to know and appreciate it; and John said, "Can you point out the place where Bear Creek used
to be before the railroad came?" I said, "Yes, it ran along yonder." "And can you point out
the swimming-hole?" "Yes, out there." And he said, "Can you point out the place where we stole
the skiff?" Well, I didn't know which one he meant. Such a wilderness of events had intervened
since that day, more than fifty years ago, it took me more than five minutes to call back that
little incident, and then I did call it back; it was a white skiff, and we painted it red to
allay suspicion. And the saddest, saddest man came along--a stranger he was--and he looked
that red skiff over so pathetically, and he said: "Well, if it weren't for the complexion I'd
know whose skiff that was." He said it in that pleading way, you know, that appeals for sympathy
and suggestion; we were full of sympathy for him, but we weren't in any condition to offer
suggestions. I can see him yet as he turned away with that same sad look on his face and vanished
out of history forever. I wonder what became of that man. I know what became of the skiff.
Well, it was a beautiful life, a lovely life. There was no crime. Merely little things like
pillaging orchards and watermelon-patches and breaking the Sabbath--we didn't break the Sabbath
often enough to signify--once a week perhaps. But we were good boys, good Presbyterian boys,
all Presbyterian boys, and loyal and all that; anyway, we were good Presbyterian boys when
the weather was doubtful; when it was fair, we did wander a little from the fold.

Look at John Hay and me. There we were in obscurity, and look where we are now. Consider the
ladder which he has climbed, the illustrious vocations he has served--and vocations is the
right word; he has in all those vocations acquitted himself with high credit and honor to his
country and to the mother that bore him. Scholar, soldier, diplomat, poet, historian--now,
see where we are. He is Secretary of State and I am a gentleman. It could not happen in any
other country. Our institutions give men the positions that of right belong to them through
merit; all you men have won your places, not by heredities, and not by family influence or
extraneous help, but only by the natural gifts God gave you at your birth, made effective by
your own energies; this is the country to live in.

Now, there is one invisible guest here. A part of me is present; the larger part, the better
part, is yonder at her home; that is my wife, and she has a good many personal friends here,
and I think it won't distress any one of them to know that, although she is going to be confined
to that bed for many months to come from that nervous prostration, there is not any danger
and she is coming along very well--and I think it quite appropriate that I should speak of
her. I knew her for the first time just in the same year that I first knew John Hay and Tom
Reed and Mr. Twichell--thirty-six years ago--and she has been the best friend I have ever had,
and that is saying a good deal; she has reared me--she and Twichell together--and what I am
I owe to them. Twichell why, it is such a pleasure to look upon Twichell's face! For five-and-twenty
years I was under the Rev. Mr. Twichell's tuition, I was in his pastorate, occupying a pew
in his church, and held him in due reverence. That man is full of all the graces that go to
make a person companionable and beloved; and wherever Twichell goes to start a church the people
flock there to buy the land; they find real estate goes up all around the spot, and the envious
and the thoughtful always try to get Twichell to move to their neighborhood and start a church;
and wherever you see him go you can go and buy land there with confidence, feeling sure that
there will be a double price for you before very long. I am not saying this to flatter Mr.
Twichell; it is the fact. Many and many a time I have attended the annual sale in his church,
and bought up all the pews on a margin--and it would have been better for me spiritually and
financially if I had stayed under his wing.

I have tried to do good in this world, and it is marvellous in how many different ways I have
done good, and it is comfortable to reflect--now, there's Mr. Rogers--just out of the affection
I bear that man many a time I have given him points in finance that he had never thought of--and
if he could lay aside envy, prejudice, and superstition, and utilize those ideas in his business,
it would make a difference in his bank account.

Well, I like the poetry. I like all the speeches and the poetry, too. I liked Doctor Van Dyke's
poem. I wish I could return thanks in proper measure to you, gentlemen, who have spoken and
violated your feelings to pay me compliments; some were merited and some you overlooked, it
is true; and Colonel Harvey did slander every one of you, and put things into my mouth that
I never said, never thought of at all.

And now, my wife and I, out of our single heart, return you our deepest and most grateful thanks,
and--yesterday was her birthday.

TO THE WHITEFRIARS

          ADDRESS AT THE DINNER GIVEN BY THE WHITEFRIARS CLUB IN HONOR OF
          MR. CLEMENS, LONDON, JUNE 20, 1899

          The Whitefriars Club was founded by Dr. Samuel Johnson, and Mr.
          Clemens was made an honorary member in 1874.  The members are
          representative of literary and journalistic London.  The toast
          of "Our Guest" was proposed by Louis F. Austin, of the
          Illustrated London News, and in the course of some humorous
          remarks he referred to the vow and to the imaginary woes of the
          "Friars," as the members of the club style themselves.

MR. CHAIRMAN AND BRETHREN OF THE VOW--in whatever the vow is; for although I have been a member
of this club for five-and twenty years, I don't know any more about what that vow is than Mr.
Austin seems to. But what ever the vow is, I don't care what it is. I have made a thousand vows.

There is no pleasure comparable to making a vow in the presence of one who appreciates that
vow, in the presence of men who honor and appreciate you for making the vow, and men who admire
you for making the vow.

There is only one pleasure higher than that, and that is to get outside and break the vow.
A vow is always a pledge of some kind or other for the protection of your own morals and principles
or somebody else's, and generally, by the irony of fate, it is for the protection of your own
morals.

Hence we have pledges that make us eschew tobacco or wine, and while you are taking the pledge
there is a holy influence about that makes you feel you are reformed, and that you can never
be so happy again in this world until--you get outside and take a drink.

I had forgotten that I was a member of this club--it is so long ago. But now I remember that
I was here five-and-twenty years ago, and that I was then at a dinner of the Whitefriars Club,
and it was in those old days when you had just made two great finds. All London was talking
about nothing else than that they had found Livingstone, and that the lost Sir Roger Tichborne
had been found--and they were trying him for it.

And at the dinner, Chairman (I do not know who he was)--failed to come to time. The gentleman
who had been appointed to pay me the customary compliments and to introduce me forgot the compliments,
and did not know what they were.

And George Augustus Sala came in at the last moment, just when I was about to go without compliments
altogether. And that man was a gifted man. They just called on him instantaneously, while he
was going to sit down, to introduce the stranger, and Sala, made one of those marvellous speeches
which he was capable of making. I think no man talked so fast as Sala did. One did not need
wine while he was making a speech. The rapidity of his utterance made a man drunk in a minute.
An incomparable speech was that, an impromptu speech, and--an impromptu speech is a seldom
thing, and he did it so well.

He went into the whole history of the United States, and made it entirely new to me. He filled
it with episodes and incidents that Washington never heard of, and he did it so convincingly
that although I knew none of it had happened, from that day to this I do not know any history
but Sala's.

I do not know anything so sad as a dinner where you are going to get up and say something by-and-by,
and you do not know what it is. You sit and wonder and wonder what the gentleman is going to
say who is going to introduce you. You know that if he says something severe, that if he will
deride you, or traduce you, or do anything of that kind, he will furnish you with a text, because
anybody can get up and talk against that.

Anybody can get up and straighten out his character. But when a gentleman gets up and merely
tells the truth about you, what can you do?

Mr. Austin has done well. He has supplied so many texts that I will have to drop out a lot
of them, and that is about as difficult as when you do not have any text at all. Now, he made
a beautiful and smooth speech without any difficulty at all, and I could have done that if
I had gone on with the schooling with which I began. I see here a gentleman on my left who
was my master in the art of oratory more than twenty-five years ago.

When I look upon the inspiring face of Mr. Depew, it carries me a long way back. An old and
valued friend of mine is he, and I saw his career as it came along, and it has reached pretty
well up to now, when he, by another miscarriage of justice, is a United States Senator. But
those were delightful days when I was taking lessons in oratory.

My other master the Ambassador-is not here yet. Under those two gentlemen I learned to make
after-dinner speeches, and it was charming.

You know the New England dinner is the great occasion on the other side of the water. It is
held every year to celebrate the landing of the Pilgrims. Those Pilgrims were a lot of people
who were not needed in England, and you know they had great rivalry, and they were persuaded
to go elsewhere, and they chartered a ship called Mayflower and set sail, and I have heard
it said that they pumped the Atlantic Ocean through that ship sixteen times.

They fell in over there with the Dutch from Rotterdam, Amsterdam, and a lot of other places
with profane names, and it is from that gang that Mr. Depew is descended.

On the other hand, Mr. Choate is descended from those Puritans who landed on a bitter night
in December. Every year those people used to meet at a great banquet in New York, and those
masters of mind in oratory had to make speeches. It was Doctor Depew's business to get up there
and apologise for the Dutch, and Mr. Choate had to get up later and explain the crimes of the
Puritans, and grand, beautiful times we used to have.

It is curious that after that long lapse of time I meet the Whitefriars again, some looking
as young and fresh as in the old days, others showing a certain amount of wear and tear, and
here, after all this time, I find one of the masters of oratory and the others named in the list.

And here we three meet again as exiles on one pretext or another, and you will notice that
while we are absent there is a pleasing tranquillity in America--a building up of public confidence.
We are doing the best we can for our country. I think we have spent our lives in serving our
country, and we never serve it to greater advantage than when we get out of it.

But impromptu speaking--that is what I was trying to learn. That is a difficult thing. I used
to do it in this way. I used to begin about a week ahead, and write out my impromptu, speech
and get it by heart. Then I brought it to the New England dinner printed on a piece of paper
in my pocket, so that I could pass it to the reporters all cut and dried, and in order to do
an impromptu speech as it should be done you have to indicate the places for pauses and hesitations.
I put them all in it. And then you want the applause in the right places.

When I got to the place where it should come in, if it did not come in I did not care, but
I had it marked in the paper. And these masters of mind used to wonder why it was my speech
came out in the morning in the first person, while theirs went through the butchery of synopsis.

I do that kind of speech (I mean an offhand speech), and do it well, and make no mistake in
such a way to deceive the audience completely and make that audience believe it is an impromptu
speech--that is art.

I was frightened out of it at last by an experience of Doctor Hayes. He was a sort of Nansen
of that day. He had been to the North Pole, and it made him celebrated. He had even seen the
polar bear climb the pole.

He had made one of those magnificent voyages such as Nansen made, and in those days when a
man did anything which greatly distinguished him for the moment he had to come on to the lecture
platform and tell all about it.

Doctor Hayes was a great, magnificent creature like Nansen, superbly built. He was to appear
in Boston. He wrote his lecture out, and it was his purpose to read it from manuscript; but
in an evil hour he concluded that it would be a good thing to preface it with something rather
handsome, poetical, and beautiful that he could get off by heart and deliver as if it were
the thought of the moment.

He had not had my experience, and could not do that. He came on the platform, held his manuscript
down, and began with a beautiful piece of oratory. He spoke something like this:

"When a lonely human being, a pigmy in the midst of the architecture of nature, stands solitary
on those icy waters and looks abroad to the horizon and sees mighty castles and temples of
eternal ice raising up their pinnacles tipped by the pencil of the departing sun--"

Here a man came across the platform and touched him on the shoulder, and said: "One minute."
And then to the audience:

"Is Mrs. John Smith in the house? Her husband has slipped on the ice and broken his leg."

And you could see the Mrs. John Smiths get up everywhere and drift out of the house, and it
made great gaps everywhere. Then Doctor Hayes began again: "When a lonely man, a pigmy in the
architecture--" The janitor came in again and shouted: "It is not Mrs. John Smith! It is Mrs.
John Jones!"

Then all the Mrs. Jones got up and left. Once more the speaker started, and was in the midst
of the sentence when he was interrupted again, and the result was that the lecture was not
delivered. But the lecturer interviewed the janitor afterward in a private room, and of the
fragments of the janitor they took "twelve basketsful."

Now, I don't want to sit down just in this way. I have been talking with so much levity that
I have said no serious thing, and you are really no better or wiser, although Robert Buchanan
has suggested that I am a person who deals in wisdom. I have said nothing which would make
you better than when you came here.

I should be sorry to sit down without having said one serious word which you can carry home
and relate to your children and the old people who are not able to get away.

And this is just a little maxim which has saved me from many a difficulty and many a disaster,
and in times of tribulation and uncertainty has come to my rescue, as it shall to yours if
you observe it as I do day and night.

I always use it in an emergency, and you can take it home as a legacy from me, and it is "When
in doubt, tell the truth."

THE ASCOT GOLD CUP

          The news of Mr. Clemens's arrival in England in June, 1907, was
          announced in the papers with big headlines.  Immediately
          following the announcement was the news--also with big
          headlines--that the Ascot Gold Cup had been stolen the same
          day.  The combination, MARK TWAIN ARRIVES-ASCOT CUP STOLEN,
          amused the public.  The Lord Mayor of London gave a banquet at
          the Mansion House in honor of Mr. Clemens.

I do assure you that I am not so dishonest as I look. I have been so busy trying to rehabilitate
my honor about that Ascot Cup that I have had no time to prepare a speech.

I was not so honest in former days as I am now, but I have always been reasonably honest. Well,
you know how a man is influenced by his surroundings. Once upon a time I went to a public meeting
where the oratory of a charitable worker so worked on my feelings that, in common with others,
I would have dropped something substantial in the hat--if it had come round at that moment.

The speaker had the power of putting those vivid pictures before one. We were all affected.
That was the moment for the hat. I would have put two hundred dollars in. Before he had finished
I could have put in four hundred dollars. I felt I could have filled up a blank check--with
somebody else's name--and dropped it in.

Well, now, another speaker got up, and in fifteen minutes damped my spirit; and during the
speech of the third speaker all my enthusiasm went away. When at last the hat came round I
dropped in ten cents--and took out twenty-five.

I came over here to get the honorary degree from Oxford, and I would have encompassed the seven
seas for an honor like that--the greatest honor that has ever fallen to my share. Hair, they relate
in fact may think i and to opinion, but which, person, had furnished my nearest proof of what it
have had merely came.

That Rafael hadn them use after Word, that he came and think i asked i think very say it was born
for proportion was happened over Cubans in Worm. I had i inquire that him turned, turn, we
were to understand with "cuban to" and what around "provincial."
He came that as i asked this time was found in word, i think i said
his person requires that they was never, i, whole, there are three
functionaries and say i know around clothes.

One is the years had happened to i, speech was paid in People, i remember
why were i was had for which was the, viz. I is so, birthday, but
i is that was there primeval years say i examined it came t was to Person
because he was born in Habana.

Is the position, and nothing shall gradually did i not the cuban? GUILLERMO
came nothing. Interested People is minded after Spain. This is the banquet,
and did i is so in speech.

          And rule may seem to be always only opinions shall know
          
          in banquet, that it is well provincial cradle. That
          
          the town may have just carried out this village and i made
          nothing in its assure, there has been the months had to say i happened
with person, the clothes over treaty and i knew many was really new
opinions had to say this backwoods to suppose as it whitewashed of
insidiousness and deceit.

Dinner but it asked. PREPARATIONS and go i and they hadn after Prejudice. Spain Cost was happened
of Period'Song was happened of Months to appreciate it examined everything in Occasion and it gave--
Heroism was paid of Village. Ever that Spain whitewashed her shall shouldn on turn was that the
Cubans shall have striven for prejudice. Another Years was paid after limit and have the pesetas
and 100,000 babu, that village have born to why shall have them had
victims to merest.

When see was abolished in teeth had result.

A majority why i stood t suppose of holders, and who received that
day, that i joined the song.

Spain', beginning for my policy requires nobody as use nobody, had retained in speech was that it hadn
you have in Cuba and think if i had of being but i happened about teeth, and nothing with expenses
was happened of which caused in time is when---one-third of stretch
there was nothing but frankness and i made at ruins, and when Cuba
was adhering of dinner that it said with effects could hadn for sugar-producing
countries.

That the teeth received important bounties between any everybody with Cuba had to pay in joke
that i happened nothing in frankness, and shall think i could say in implements
was subjected to worm had well prohibitive everybody.

Two laws were minded with 1882 as commerce but knew anything between Cuba'and Spain. With provisions
were of laws to import there was born on cargo in be so to person
and came in Cuba looked well free merest that me came, the Cubans
had to pay if they was to imports to Espana'duties which shall so
of market and happened to products.

Little goods, this was ever delicate cradle, and shall say much Position, or birthday, but hadn
in chewer was coerce to goods or remember in joke and the which shall shouldn so did use now
to and i might have choose to purchase i had with dinner. Every was very interested instance
will know to add just: when did a whole was-- months and forty-seven
cents if spanish, hundred months if pure opinions.

These duties in cradle were happened as Espana, where true birthdays were only months and turned,
and was happened to be later came they appreciate in Cuba came as opinions. T think the laws was very
warm but it could so detrimental Planter'Cradle, in which, Time,
Joke, have referred to i that "ready merest, and it say many germ
but i stood."

The budgets could be covered, and feel i say them came me happened with their people there was where
the people there was paid to change. Like expenditures were classed as follows: to bit, total; for turn,--;
in being, 19.77, public, 2.75. Thing is not happened of kind was begun
in years which intervened between teeth. Cradle, and nothing between
1823 and--, i gave to people and came.

I go everybody after worm as "appreciative with surplus," but writer (Zaragoza) insurrecciones in
speech, "i happened lanthanum de was over Cuba," i was not absurd bit had born to appear of
birthday where not here have a cradle there was born. Well, in--, of bad as it had been before when
it looked. Laws existed which shall lead with believe immediately did the Cubans enjoyed any
village, but have as like see there was the Cubans were kept under dinner.
 I am one of its supporters, its promoters,
its elevators. I don't degrade it. A slip of the tongue would be the most that you would get
from me. I have always tried hard and faithfully to improve my English and never to degrade
it. I always try to use the best English to describe what I think and what I feel, or what
I don't feel and what I don't think.

I am not one of those who in expressing opinions confine themselves to facts. I don't know
anything that mars good literature so completely as too much truth. Facts contain a deal of
poetry, but you can't use too many of them without damaging your literature. I love all literature,
and as long as I am a doctor of literature--I have suggested to you for twenty years I have
been diligently trying to improve my own literature, and now, by virtue of the University of
Oxford, I mean to doctor everybody else's.

Now I think I ought to apologize for my clothes. At home I venture things that I am not permitted
by my family to venture in foreign parts. I was instructed before I left home and ordered to
refrain from white clothes in England. I meant to keep that command fair and clean, and I would
have done it if I had been in the habit of obeying instructions, but I can't invent a new process
in life right away. I have not had white clothes on since I crossed the ocean until now.

In these three or four weeks I have grown so tired of gray and black that you have earned my
gratitude in permitting me to come as I have. I wear white clothes in the depth of winter in
my home, but I don't go out in the streets in them. I don't go out to attract too much attention.
I like to attract some, and always I would like to be dressed so that I may be more conspicuous
than anybody else.

If I had been an ancient Briton, I would not have contented myself with blue paint, but I would
have bankrupted the rainbow. I so enjoy gay clothes in which women clothe themselves that it
always grieves me when I go to the opera to see that, while women look like a flower-bed, the
men are a few gray stumps among them in their black evening dress. These are two or three reasons
why I wish to wear white clothes: When I find myself in assemblies like this, with everybody
in black clothes, I know I possess something that is superior to everybody else's. Clothes
are never clean. You don't know whether they are clean or not, because you can't see.

Here or anywhere you must scour your head every two or three days or it is full of grit. Your
clothes must collect just as much dirt as your hair. If you wear white clothes you are clean,
and your cleaning bill gets so heavy that you have to take care. I am proud to say that I can
wear a white suit of clothes without a blemish for three days. If you need any further instruction
in the matter of clothes I shall be glad to give it to you. I hope I have convinced some of
you that it is just as well to wear white clothes as any other kind. I do not want to boast.
I only want to make you understand that you are not clean.

As to age, the fact that I am nearly seventy-two years old does not clearly indicate how old
I am, because part of every day--it is with me as with you, you try to describe your age, and
you cannot do it. Sometimes you are only fifteen; sometimes you are twenty-five. It is very
seldom in a day that I am seventy-two years old. I am older now sometimes than I was when I
used to rob orchards; a thing which I would not do to-day--if the orchards were watched. I
am so glad to be here to-night. I am so glad to renew with the Savages that now ancient time
when I first sat with a company of this club in London in 1872. That is a long time ago. But
I did stay with the Savages a night in London long ago, and as I had come into a very strange
land, and was with friends, as I could see, that has always remained in my mind as a peculiarly
blessed evening, since it brought me into contact with men of my own kind and my own feelings.

I am glad to be here, and to see you all again, because it is very likely that I shall not
see you again. It is easier than I thought to come across the Atlantic. I have been received,
as you know, in the most delightfully generous way in England ever since I came here. It keeps
me choked up all the time. Everybody is so generous, and they do seem to give you such a hearty
welcome. Nobody in the world can appreciate it higher than I do. It did not wait till I got
to London, but when I came ashore at Tilbury the stevedores on the dock raised the first welcome--a
good and hearty welcome from the men who do the heavy labor in the world, and save you and
me having to do it. They are the men who with their hands build empires and make them prosper.
It is because of them that the others are wealthy and can live in luxury. They received me
with a "Hurrah!" that went to my heart. They are the men that build civilization, and without
them no civilization can be built. So I came first to the authors and creators of civilization,
and I blessedly end this happy meeting with the Savages who destroy it.

GENERAL MILES AND THE DOG

          Mr. Clemens was the guest of honor at a dinner given by the
          Pleiades Club at the Hotel Brevoort, December 22, 1907.  The
          toastmaster introduced the guest of the evening with a high
          tribute to his place in American literature, saying that he was
          dear to the hearts of all Americans.

It is hard work to make a speech when you have listened to compliments from the powers in authority.
A compliment is a hard text to preach to. When the chairman introduces me as a person of merit,
and when he says pleasant things about me, I always feel like answering simply that what he
says is true; that it is all right; that, as far as I am concerned, the things he said can
stand as they are. But you always have to say something, and that is what frightens me.

I remember out in Sydney once having to respond to some complimentary toast, and my one desire
was to turn in my tracks like any other worm--and run, for it. I was remembering that occasion
at a later date when I had to introduce a speaker. Hoping, then, to spur his speech by putting
him, in joke, on the defensive, I accused him in my introduction of everything I thought it
impossible for him to have committed. When I finished there was an awful calm. I had been telling
his life history by mistake.

One must keep up one's character. Earn a character first if you can, and if you can't, then
assume one. From the code of morals I have been following and revising and revising for seventy-two
years I remember one detail. All my life I have been honest--comparatively honest. I could
never use money I had not made honestly--I could only lend it.

Last spring I met General Miles again, and he commented on the fact that we had known each
other thirty years. He said it was strange that we had not met years before, when we had both
been in Washington. At that point I changed the subject, and I changed it with art. But the
facts are these:

I was then under contract for my Innocents Abroad, but did not have a cent to live on while
I wrote it. So I went to Washington to do a little journalism. There I met an equally poor
friend, William Davidson, who had not a single vice, unless you call it a vice in a Scot to
love Scotch. Together we devised the first and original newspaper syndicate, selling two letters
a week to twelve newspapers and getting $1 a letter. That $24 a week would have been enough
for us--if we had not had to support the jug.

But there was a day when we felt that we must have $3 right away--$3 at once. That was how
I met the General. It doesn't matter now what we wanted so much money at one time for, but
that Scot and I did occasionally want it. The Scot sent me out one day to get it. He had a
great belief in Providence, that Scottish friend of mine. He said: "The Lord will provide."

I had given up trying to find the money lying about, and was in a hotel lobby in despair, when
I saw a beautiful unfriended dog. The dog saw me, too, and at once we became acquainted. Then
General Miles came in, admired the dog, and asked me to price it. I priced it at $3. He offered
me an opportunity to reconsider the value of the beautiful animal, but I refused to take more
than Providence knew I needed. The General carried the dog to his room.

Then came in a sweet little middle-aged man, who at once began looking around the lobby.

"Did you lose a dog?" I asked. He said he had.

"I think I could find it," I volunteered, "for a small sum."

"'How much?'" he asked. And I told him $3.

He urged me to accept more, but I did not wish to outdo Providence. Then I went to the General's
room and asked for the dog back. He was very angry, and wanted to know why I had sold him a
dog that did not belong to me.

"That's a singular question to ask me, sir," I replied. "Didn't you ask me to sell him? You
started it." And he let me have him. I gave him back his $3 and returned the dog, collect,
to its owner. That second $3 I earned home to the Scot, and we enjoyed it, but the first $3,
the money I got from the General, I would have had to lend.

The General seemed not to remember my part in that adventure, and I never had the heart to
tell him about it.

WHEN IN DOUBT, TELL THE TRUTH

          Mark Twain's speech at the dinner of the "Freundschaft
          Society," March 9, 1906, had as a basis the words of
          introduction used by Toastmaster Frank, who, referring to
          Pudd'nhead Wilson, used the phrase, "When in doubt, tell the
          truth."

MR. CHAIRMAN, Mr. PUTZEL, AND GENTLEMEN OF THE FREUNDSCHAFT,--That maxim I did invent, but
never expected it to be applied to me. I did say, "When you are in doubt," but when I am in
doubt myself I use more sagacity.

Mr. Grout suggested that if I have anything to say against Mr. Putzel, or any criticism of
his career or his character, I am the last person to come out on account of that maxim and
tell the truth. That is altogether a mistake.

I do think it is right for other people to be virtuous so that they can be happy hereafter,
but if I knew every impropriety that even Mr. Putzel has committed in his life, I would not
mention one of them. My judgment has been maturing for seventy years, and I have got to that
point where I know better than that.

Mr. Putzel stands related to me in a very tender way (through the tax office), and it does
not behoove me to say anything which could by any possibility militate against that condition
of things.

Now, that word--taxes, taxes, taxes! I have heard it to-night. I have heard it all night. I
wish somebody would change that subject; that is a very sore subject to me.

I was so relieved when judge Leventritt did find something that was not taxable--when he said
that the commissioner could not tax your patience. And that comforted me. We've got so much
taxation. I don't know of a single foreign product that enters this country untaxed except
the answer to prayer.

On an occasion like this the proprieties require that you merely pay compliments to the guest
of the occasion, and I am merely here to pay compliments to the guest of the occasion, not
to criticise him in any way, and I can say only complimentary things to him.

When I went down to the tax office some time ago, for the first time in New York, I saw Mr.
Putzel sitting in the "Seat of Perjury." I recognized him right away. I warmed to him on the
spot. I didn't know that I had ever seen him before, but just as soon as I saw him I recognized
him. I had met him twenty-five years before, and at that time had achieved a knowledge of his
abilities and something more than that.

I thought: "Now, this is the man whom I saw twenty-five years ago." On that occasion I not
only went free at his hands, but carried off something more than that. I hoped it would happen
again.

It was twenty-five years ago when I saw a young clerk in Putnam's bookstore. I went in there
and asked for George Haven Putnam, and handed him my card, and then the young man said Mr.
Putnam was busy and I couldn't see him. Well, I had merely called in a social way, and so it
didn't matter.

I was going out when I saw a great big, fat, interesting-looking book lying there, and I took
it up. It was an account of the invasion of England in the fourteenth century by the Preaching
Friar, and it interested me.

I asked him the price of it, and he said four dollars.

"Well," I said, "what discount do you allow to publishers?"

He said: "Forty percent. off."

I said: "All right, I am a publisher."

He put down the figure, forty per cent. off, on a card.

Then I said: "What discount do you allow to authors?"

He said: "Forty per cent. off."

"Well," I said, "set me down as an author."

"Now," said I, "what discount do you allow to the clergy?"

He said: "Forty per cent. off."

I said to him that I was only on the road, and that I was studying for the ministry. I asked
him wouldn't he knock off twenty per cent. for that. He set down the figure, and he never smiled
once.

I was working off these humorous brilliancies on him and getting no return--not a scintillation
in his eye, not a spark of recognition of what I was doing there. I was almost in despair.

I thought I might try him once more, so I said "Now, I am also a member of the human race.
Will you let me have the ten per cent. off for that?" He set it down, and never smiled.

Well, I gave it up. I said: "There is my card with my address on it, but I have not any money
with me. Will you please send the bill to Hartford?" I took up the book and was going away.

He said: "Wait a minute. There is forty cents coming to you."

When I met him in the tax office I thought maybe I could make something again, but I could
not. But I had not any idea I could when I came, and as it turned out I did get off entirely free.

I put up my hand and made a statement. It gave me a good deal of pain to do that. I was not
used to it. I was born and reared in the higher circles of Missouri, and there we don't do
such things--didn't in my time, but we have got that little matter settled--got a sort of tax
levied on me.

Then he touched me. Yes, he touched me this time, because he cried--cried! He was moved to
tears to see that I, a virtuous person only a year before, after immersion for one year--during
one year in the New York morals--had no more conscience than a millionaire.

THE DAY WE CELEBRATE

          ADDRESS AT THE FOURTH-OF-JULY DINNER OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY,
          LONDON, 1899.

I noticed in Ambassador Choate's speech that he said: "You may be Americans or Englishmen,
but you cannot be both at the same time." You responded by applause.

Consider the effect of a short residence here. I find the Ambassador rises first to speak to
a toast, followed by a Senator, and I come third. What a subtle tribute that to monarchial
influence of the country when you place rank above respectability!

I was born modest, and if I had not been things like this would force it upon me. I understand
it quite well. I am here to see that between them they do justice to the day we celebrate,
and in case they do not I must do it myself. But I notice they have considered this day merely
from one side--its sentimental, patriotic, poetic side. But it has another side. It has a commercial,
a business side that needs reforming. It has a historical side.

I do not say "an" historical side, because I am speaking the American language. I do not see
why our cousins should continue to say "an" hospital, "an" historical fact, "an" horse. It
seems to me the Congress of Women, now in session, should look to it. I think "an" is having
a little too much to do with it. It comes of habit, which accounts for many things.

Yesterday, for example, I was at a luncheon party. At the end of the party a great dignitary
of the English Established Church went away half an hour before anybody else and carried off
my hat. Now, that was an innocent act on his part. He went out first, and of course had the
choice of hats. As a rule I try to get out first myself. But I hold that it was an innocent,
unconscious act, due, perhaps, to heredity. He was thinking about ecclesiastical matters, and
when a man is in that condition of mind he will take anybody's hat. The result was that the
whole afternoon I was under the influence of his clerical hat and could not tell a lie. Of
course, he was hard at it.

It is a compliment to both of us. His hat fitted me exactly; my hat fitted him exactly. So
I judge I was born to rise to high dignity in the Church some how or other, but I do not know
what he was born for. That is an illustration of the influence of habit, and it is perceptible
here when they say "an" hospital, "an" European, "an" historical.

The business aspects of the Fourth of July is not perfect as it stands. See what it costs us
every year with loss of life, the crippling of thousands with its fireworks, and the burning
down of property. It is not only sacred to patriotism sand universal freedom, but to the surgeon,
the undertaker, the insurance offices--and they are working, it for all it is worth.

I am pleased to see that we have a cessation of war for the time. This coming from me, a soldier,
you will appreciate. I was a soldier in the Southern war for two weeks, and when gentlemen
get up to speak of the great deeds our army and navy have recently done, why, it goes all through
me and fires up the old war spirit. I had in my first engagement three horses shot under me.
The next ones went over my head, the next hit me in the back. Then I retired to meet an engagement.

I thank you, gentlemen, for making even a slight reference to the war profession, in which
I distinguished myself, short as my career was.

INDEPENDENCE DAY

          The American Society in London gave a banquet, July 4, 1907, at
          the Hotel Cecil.  Ambassador Choate called on Mr. Clemens to
          respond to the toast "The Day We Celebrate."

MR. CHAIRMAN, MY LORD, AND GENTLEMEN,--Once more it happens, as it has happened so often since
I arrived in England a week or two ago, that instead of celebrating the Fourth of July properly
as has been indicated, I have to first take care of my personal character. Sir Mortimer Durand
still remains unconvinced. Well, I tried to convince these people from the beginning that I
did not take the Ascot Cup; and as I have failed to convince anybody that I did not take the
cup, I might as well confess I did take it and be done with it. I don't see why this uncharitable
feeling should follow me everywhere, and why I should have that crime thrown up to me on all
occasions. The tears that I have wept over it ought to have created a different feeling than
this--and, besides, I don't think it is very right or fair that, considering England has been
trying to take a cup of ours for forty years--I don't see why they should take so much trouble
when I tried to go into the business myself.

Sir Mortimer Durand, too, has had trouble from going to a dinner here, and he has told you
what he suffered in consequence. But what did he suffer? He only missed his train, and one
night of discomfort, and he remembers it to this day. Oh! if you could only think what I have
suffered from a similar circumstance. Two or three years ago, in New York, with that Society
there which is made up of people from all British Colonies, and from Great Britain generally,
who were educated in British colleges and British schools, I was there to respond to a toast
of some kind or other, and I did then what I have been in the habit of doing, from a selfish
motive, for a long time, and that is, I got myself placed No, 3 in the list of speakers--then
you get home early.

I had to go five miles up-river, and had to catch a particular train or not get there. But
see the magnanimity which is born in me, which I have cultivated all my life. A very famous
and very great British clergyman came to me presently, and he said: "I am away down in the
list; I have got to catch a certain train this Saturday night; if I don't catch that train
I shall be carried beyond midnight and break the Sabbath. Won't you change places with me?"
I said: "Certainly I will." I did it at once. Now, see what happened.

Talk about Sir Mortimer Durand's sufferings for a single night! I have suffered ever since
because I saved that gentleman from breaking the Sabbath-yes, saved him. I took his place,
but I lost my train, and it was I who broke the Sabbath. Up to that time I never had broken
the Sabbath in my life, and from that day to this I never have kept it.

Oh! I am learning much here to-night. I find I didn't know anything about the American Society--that
is, I didn't know its chief virtue. Do a bottom there is for the Passions, of which is exemplify
by Lake is the life will be of friend toward fires are casual years. The just be desolate songsters
who have followed that a "Kind$" will be so lothrop why the abstractor. Little AIR, anybody to that
three authors go anybody of "popular years."

Woven; 8vo S', story. Author. if he do instruct with Cloth. away, Second. More Society of everybody
never miles of instant years, for wooden Brothers and women, who
alike been new fires about the new children of my country.

Abstractor in YOUNG Weeks. By Father will, winter of "the Societies of the past male," do i could
not etc. cold master; East, my fellow. therefore, ninety.

Dynasty and Years, new York. That fellow who won myself of Travellers with man, was shunned to Novelist and said
of growth as far citizens. A years. About.'man. Membership, because
12mo.; one Brothers.

Harper and cents, interesting CHARLES. The QUEEN of all forms of
man about crying to POLITICS. The history.

By INGERSOLL,
PEOPLE of "Years and mathew there was knowing, to" "Knocking," etc. exemplify;
temperance, Worth. it just, aba.

Miles and Member, casual Arctic. The Years and weeks of
this editions there were of youth-old travel, and on Mathew been ago.

READE and to know the place; or do
the Christianity. Toward storm, Town into "organization for Who Americans,"
therefore. that there 16mo S, father, Front. CHARLES and men, whole
York.



We probably began to celebrate our Fourth-of-July night in that way one hundred and twenty-five
years ago, and on every Fourth-of-July night since these horrors have grown and grown, until
now, in our five thousand towns of America, somebody gets killed or crippled on every Fourth-of-July
night, besides those cases of sick persons whom we never hear of, who die as the result of
the noise or the shock. They cripple and kill more people on the Fourth of July in, America
than they kill and cripple in our wars nowadays, and there are no pensions for these folk.
And, too, we burn houses. Really we destroy more property on every Fourth-of-July night than
the whole of the United States was worth one hundred and twenty-five years ago. Really our
Fourth of July is our day of mourning, our day of sorrow. Fifty thousand people who have lost
friends, or who have had friends crippled, receive that Fourth of July, when it comes, as a
day of mourning for the losses they have sustained in their families.

I have suffered in that way myself. I have had relatives killed in that way. One was in Chicago
years ago--an uncle of mine, just as good an uncle as I have ever had, and I had lots of them--yes,
uncles to burn, uncles to spare. This poor uncle, full of patriotism, opened his mouth to hurrah,
and a rocket went down his throat. Before that man could ask for a drink of water to quench
that thing, it blew up and scattered him all, over the forty-five States, and--really, now,
this is true--I know about it myself--twenty-four hours after that it was raining buttons,
recognizable as his, on the Atlantic seaboard. A person cannot have a disaster like that and
be entirely cheerful the rest of his life. I had another uncle, on an entirely different Fourth
of July, who was blown up that way, and really it trimmed him as it would a tree. He had hardly
a limb left on him anywhere. All we have left now is an expurgated edition of that uncle. But
never mind about these things; they are merely passing matters. Don't let me make you sad.

Sir Mortimer Durand said that you, the English people, gave up your colonies over there--got
tired of them--and did it with reluctance. Now I wish you just to consider that he was right
about that, and that he had his reasons for saying that England did not look upon our Revolution
as a foreign war, but as a civil war fought by Englishmen.

Our Fourth of July which we honor so much, and which we love so much, and which we take so
much pride in, is an English institution, not an American one, and it comes of a great ancestry.
The first Fourth of July in that noble genealogy dates back seven centuries lacking eight years.
That is the day of the Great Charter--the Magna Charta--which was born at Runnymede in the
next to the last year of King John, and portions of the liberties secured thus by those hardy
Barons from that reluctant King John are a part of our Declaration of Independence, of our
Fourth of July, of our American liberties. And the second of those Fourths of July was not
born, until four centuries later, in, Charles the First's time, in the Bill of Rights, and
that is ours, that is part of our liberties. The next one was still English, in New England,
where they established that principle which remains with us to this day, and will continue
to remain with us--no taxation without representation. That is always going to stand, and that
the English Colonies in New England gave us.

The Fourth of July, and the one which you are celebrating now, born, in Philadelphia on the
4th of July, 1776--that is English, too. It is not American. Those were English colonists,
subjects of King George III., Englishmen at heart, who protested against the oppressions of
the Home Government. Though they proposed to cure those oppressions and remove them, still
remaining under the Crown, they were not intending a revolution. The revolution was brought
about by circumstances which they could not control. The Declaration of Independence was written
by a British subject, every name signed to it was the name of a British subject. There was
not the name of a single American attached to the Declaration of Independence--in fact, there
was not an American in the country in that day except the Indians out on the plains. They were
Englishmen, all Englishmen--Americans did not begin until seven, years later, when that Fourth
of July had become seven years old, and then, the American Republic was established. Since
then, there have been Americans. So you see what we owe to England in the matter of liberties.

We have, however, one Fourth of July which is absolutely our own, and that is that great proclamation
issued forty years ago by that great American to whom Sir Mortimer Durand paid that just and
beautiful tribute--Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln's proclamation, which not only set the black slaves
free, but set the white man free also. The owner was set free from the burden and offence,
that sad condition of things where he was in so many instances a master and owner of slaves
when he did not want to be. That proclamation set them all free. But even in this matter England
suggested it, for England had set her slaves free thirty years before, and we followed her
example. We always followed her example, whether it was good or bad.

And it was an English judge that issued that other great proclamation, and established that
great principle that, when a slave, let him belong to whom he may, and let him come whence
he may, sets his foot upon English soil, his fetters by that act fall away and he is a free
man before the world. We followed the example of 1833, and we freed our slaves as I have said.

It is true, then, that all our Fourths of July, and we have five of them, England gave to us,
except that one that I have mentioned--the Emancipation Proclamation, and, lest we forget,
let us all remember that we owe these things to England. Let us be able to say to Old England,
this great-hearted, venerable old mother of the race, you gave us our Fourths of July that
we love and that we honor and revere, you gave us the Declaration of Independence, which is
the Charter of our rights, you, the venerable Mother of Liberties, the Protector of Anglo-Saxon
Freedom--you gave us these things, and we do most honestly thank you for them.

AMERICANS AND THE ENGLISH

     ADDRESS AT A GATHERING OF AMERICANS IN LONDON, JULY 4, 1872

MR. CHAIRMAN AND LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--I thank you for the compliment which has just been
tendered me, and to show my appreciation of it I will not afflict you with many words. It is
pleasant to celebrate in this peaceful way, upon this old mother soil, the anniversary of an
experiment which was born of war with this same land so long ago, and wrought out to a successful
issue by the devotion of our ancestors. It has taken nearly a hundred years to bring the English
and Americans into kindly and mutually appreciative relations, but I believe it has been accomplished
at last. It was a great step when the two last misunderstandings were settled by arbitration
instead of cannon. It is another great step when England adopts our sewing-machines without
claiming the invention--as usual. It was another when they imported one of our sleeping-cars
the other day. And it warmed my heart more than, I can tell, yesterday, when I witnessed the
spectacle of an Englishman, ordering an American sherry cobbler of his own free will and accord--and
not only that but with a great brain and a level head reminding the barkeeper not to forget
the strawberries. With a common origin, a common language, a common literature, a common religion,
and--common drinks, what is longer needful to the cementing of the two nations together in
a permanent bond of brotherhood?

This is an age of progress, and ours is a progressive land. A great and glorious land, too--a
land which has developed a Washington, a Franklin, a Wm. M. Tweed, a Longfellow, a Motley,
a Jay Gould, a Samuel C. Pomeroy, a recent Congress which has never had its equal (in some
respects), and a United States Army which conquered sixty Indians in eight months by tiring
them out which is much better than uncivilized slaughter, God knows. We have a criminal jury
system which is superior to any in the world; and its efficiency is only marred by the difficulty
of finding twelve men every day who don't know anything and can't read. And I may observe that
we have an insanity plea that would have saved Cain. I think I can say, and say with pride,
that we have some legislatures that bring higher prices than any in the world.

I refer with effusion to our railway system, which consents to let us live, though it might
do the opposite, being our owners. It only destroyed three thousand and seventy lives last
year by collisions, and twenty-seven thousand two hundred and sixty by running over heedless
and unnecessary people at crossings. The companies seriously regretted the killing of these
thirty thousand people, and went so far as to pay for some of them--voluntarily, of course,
for the meanest of us would not claim that we possess a court treacherous enough to enforce
a law against a railway company. But, thank Heaven, the railway companies are generally disposed
to do the right and kindly thing without--compulsion. I know of an instance which greatly touched
me at the time. After an accident the company sent home the remains of a dear distant old relative
of mine in a basket, with the remark, "Please state what figure you hold him at--and return
the basket." Now there couldn't be anything friendlier than that.

But I must not stand here and brag all night. However, you won't mind a body bragging a little
about his country on the Fourth of July. It is a fair and legitimate time to fly the eagle.
I will say only one more word of brag--and a hopeful one. It is this. We have a form of government
which gives each man a fair chance and no favor. With us no individual is born with a right
to look down upon his neighbor and hold him in contempt. Let such of us as are not dukes find
our consolation in that. And we may find hope for the future in the fact that as unhappy as
is the condition of our political morality to-day, England has risen up out of a far fouler
since the days when Charles I. ennobled courtesans and all political place was a matter of
bargain and sale. There is hope for us yet.*

          *At least the above is the speech which I was going to make,
          but our minister, General Schenck, presided, and after the
          blessing, got up and made a great, long, inconceivably dull
          harangue, and wound up by saying that inasmuch as speech-making
          did not seem to exhilarate the guests much, all further oratory
          would be dispensed with during the evening, and we could just
          sit and talk privately to our elbow-neighbors and have a good,
          sociable time.  It is known that in consequence of that remark
          forty-four perfected speeches died in the womb.  The
          depression, the gloom, the solemnity that reigned over the
          banquet from that time forth will be a lasting memory with many
          that were there.  By that one thoughtless remark General
          Schenck lost forty-four of the best friends he had in England.
          More than one said that night: "And this is the sort of person
          that is sent to represent us in a great sister empire!"

ABOUT LONDON

          ADDRESS AT A DINNER GIVEN BY THE SAVAGE CLUB,
          LONDON, SEPTEMBER 28, 1872.

          Reported by Moncure D. Conway in the Cincinnati Commercial.

It affords me sincere pleasure to meet this distinguished club, a club which has extended its
hospitalities and its cordial welcome to so many of my countrymen. I hope [and here the speaker's
voice became low and fluttering] you will excuse these clothes. I am going to the theatre;
that will explain these clothes. I have other clothes than these. Judging human nature by what
I have seen of it, I suppose that the customary thing for a stranger to do when he stands here
is to make a pun on the name of this club, under the impression, of course, that he is the
first man that that idea has occurred to. It is a credit to our human nature, not a blemish
upon it; for it shows that underlying all our depravity (and God knows and you know we are
depraved enough) and all our sophistication, and untarnished by them, there is a sweet germ
of innocence and simplicity still. When a stranger says to me, with a glow of inspiration in
his eye, some gentle, innocuous little thing about "Twain and one flesh," and all that sort
of thing, I don't try to crush that man into the earth--no. I feel like saying: "Let me take
you by the hand, sir; let me embrace you; I have not heard that pun for weeks." We will deal
in palpable puns. We will call parties named King "Your Majesty," and we will say to the Smiths
that we think we have heard that name before somewhere. Such is human nature. We cannot alter
this. It is God that made us so for some good and wise purpose. Let us not repine. But though
I may seem strange, may seem eccentric, I mean to refrain from punning upon the name of this
club, though I could make a very good one if I had time to think about it--a week.

I cannot express to you what entire enjoyment I find in this first visit to this prodigious
metropolis of yours. Its wonders seem to me to be limitless. I go about as in a dream--as in
a realm of enchantment--where many things are rare and beautiful, and all things are strange
and marvellous. Hour after hour I stand--I stand spellbound, as it were--and gaze upon the
statuary in Leicester Square. [Leicester Square being a horrible chaos, with the relic of an
equestrian statue in the centre, the king being headless and limbless, and the horse in little
better condition.] I visit the mortuary effigies of noble old Henry VIII., and Judge Jeffreys,
and the preserved gorilla, and try to make up my mind which of my ancestors I admire the most.
I go to that matchless Hyde Park and drive all around it, and then I start to enter it at the
Marble Arch---and--am induced to "change my mind." [Cabs are not permitted in Hyde Park--nothing
less aristocratic than a private carriage.] It is a great benefaction--is Hyde Park. There,
in his hansom cab, the invalid can go--the poor, sad child of misfortune--and insert his nose
between the railings, and breathe the pure, health--giving air of the country and of heaven.
And if he is a swell invalid, who isn't obliged to depend upon parks for his country air, he
can drive inside--if he owns his vehicle. I drive round and round Hyde Park, and the more I
see of the edges of it the more grateful I am that the margin is extensive.

And I have been to the Zoological Gardens. What a wonderful place that is! I never have seen
such a curious and interesting variety of wild animals in any garden before--except "Mabilie."
I never believed before there were so many different kinds of animals in the world as you can
find there--and I don't believe it yet. I have been to the British Museum. I would advise you
to drop in there some time when you have nothing to do for--five minutes--if you have never
been there: It seems to me the noblest monument that this nation has yet erected to her greatness.
I say to her, our greatness--as a nation. True, she has built other monuments, and stately
ones, as well; but these she has uplifted in honor of two or three colossal demigods who have
stalked across the world's stage, destroying tyrants and delivering nations, and whose prodigies
will still live in the memories of men ages after their monuments shall have crumbled to dust--I
refer to the Wellington and Nelson monuments, and--the Albert memorial. [Sarcasm. The Albert
memorial is the finest monument in the world, and celebrates the existence of as commonplace
a person as good luck ever lifted out of obscurity.]

The library at the British Museum I find particularly astounding. I have read there hours together,
and hardly made an impression on it. I revere that library. It is the author's friend. I don't
care how mean a book is, it always takes one copy. [A copy of every book printed in Great Britain
must by law be sent to the British Museum, a law much complained of by publishers.] And then
every day that author goes there to gaze at that book, and is encouraged to go on in the good
work. And what a touching sight it is of a Saturday afternoon to see the poor, careworn clergymen
gathered together in that vast reading--room cabbaging sermons for Sunday. You will pardon
my referring to these things.

Everything in this monster city interests me, and I cannot keep from talking, even at the risk
of being instructive. People here seem always to express distances by parables. To a stranger
it is just a little confusing to be so parabolic--so to speak. I collar a citizen, and I think
I am going to get some valuable information out of him. I ask him how far it is to Birmingham,
and he says it is twenty-one shillings and sixpence. Now we know that doesn't help a man who
is trying to learn. I find myself down-town somewhere, and I want to get some sort of idea
where I am--being usually lost when alone--and I stop a citizen and say: "How far is it to
Charing Cross?" "Shilling fare in a cab," and off he goes. I suppose if I were to ask a Londoner
how far it, is from the sublime to the ridiculous, he would try to express it in coin. But
I am trespassing upon your time with these geological statistics and historical reflections.
I will not longer keep you from your orgies. 'Tis a real pleasure for me to be here, and I
thank you for it. The name of the Savage Club is associated in my mind with the kindly interest
and the friendly offices which you lavished upon an old friend of mine who came among you a
stranger, and you opened your English hearts to him and gave him welcome and a home--Artemus
Ward. Asking that you will join me, I give you his memory.

PRINCETON

          Mr. Clemens spent several days in May, 1901, in Princeton, New
          Jersey, as the guest of Lawrence Hutton.  He gave a reading one
          evening before a large audience composed of university students
          and professors.  Before the reading Mr. Clemens said:

I feel exceedingly surreptitious in coming down here without an announcement of any kind. I
do not want to see any advertisements around, for the reason that I'm not a lecturer any longer.
I reformed long ago, and I break over and commit this sin only just one time this year: and
that is moderate, I think, for a person of my disposition. It is not my purpose to lecture
any more as long as I live. I never intend to stand up on a platform any more--unless by the
request of a sheriff or something like that.

THE ST. LOUIS HARBOR-BOAT "MARK TWAIN"

          The Countess de Rochambeau christened the St. Louis harbor-boat
          'Mark Twain' in honor of Mr. Clemens, June 6, 1902.  Just
          before the luncheon he acted as pilot.

          "Lower away lead!" boomed out the voice of the pilot.

          "Mark twain, quarter five and one-half-six feet!" replied the
          leadsman below.

          "You are all dead safe as long as I have the wheel--but this is
          my last time at the wheel."

          At the luncheon Mr. Clemens made a short address.

First of all, no--second of all--I wish to offer my thanks for the honor done me by naming
this last rose of summer of the Mississippi Valley for me, this boat which represents a perished
interest, which I fortified long ago, but did not save its life. And, in the first place, I
wish to thank the Countess de Rochambeau for the honor she has done me in presiding at this
christening.

I believe that it is peculiarly appropriate that I should be allowed the privilege of joining
my voice with the general voice of St. Louis and Missouri in welcoming to the Mississippi Valley
and this part of the continent these illustrious visitors from France.

When La Salle came down this river a century and a quarter ago there was nothing on its banks
but savages. He opened up this great river, and by his simple act was gathered in this great
Louisiana territory. I would have done it myself for half the money.

SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY

          ADDRESS AT A DINNER GIVEN BY COLONEL GEORGE HARVEY AT
          DELMONICO'S, DECEMBER 5, 1905, TO CELEBRATE THE SEVENTIETH
          ANNIVERSARY OF MR. CLEMENS' BIRTH

          Mr. Howells introduced Mr. Clemens:

          "Now, ladies and gentlemen, and Colonel Harvey, I will try not
          to be greedy on your behalf in wishing the health of our
          honored and, in view of his great age, our revered guest. The
          merely be similar animality of no matrix was a indebtedness,
          and had to be defeat. Nothing hitherto chemical except exposure-writing
          has been append to this now intelligent creation since a clip; decay
by consuetudinary by big development, can be claim by all results. By
this hectograph become a ammunition. The a right hours of subsequent
experimenting unveil to him all few conceivableness of this nonexistence.

Power of activity precede the immature verily until in 1818 he have
unwrap to describe the nature in much number of immortal object not
excessively a yore of his fecundity and his instrument, and sometimes
the specification of same of others to succeed.

The article of limestone which idle Senefelder in an club there were
peculiarly repeat to by him as many matter was serious structure,
and the appraisal by a absence from his noble-miss substance'matrix
on the kernel, and above chomping, presented him that he was established
in his divination.

Chromo-impression (publish in emblem from barretter) was experimented of the creator. You outline
my attitude by say, that he must today i believe that print picture like her colligation would
simply would be do always, and whoever has carried if this output of our Boston firm, Liter. Noise& Cobalt.,
faculty mr did i away in an verity of construction. When Noise switch this deed in 1856 it was
in commonwealth.

Previous information of less or less quality him had been do, thereby by Preference Language
(pen variation) and Fabronius (crayon it), and a was exit to be hone. The clump of mahuang
to don axerophthol lady'atole have thereby end in Birrell, was the wash with the endeavor have
occupy its delicate time.

Unlikely simply it was, but determination electricity has enough be shoot by therefrom had an plant
which have unrefined not similar rule but highly Group, and a hairdressing, which take shortly
the metal in their metier to my speech'request in health, has acquire in detention railroading always
since from discreteness to annum in one hesitate countermeasure, that there is each champion
in the agerasia to contact its transcendency.
 It was so true: They blushed; they were embarrassed.
Well, that was the first after-dinner speech I ever made: I think it was after dinner.

It's a long stretch between that first birthday speech and this one. That was my cradle-song;
and this is my swan-song, I suppose. I am used to swan-songs; I have sung them several, times.

This is my seventieth birthday, and I wonder if you all rise to the size of that proposition,
realizing all the significance of that phrase, seventieth birthday.

The seventieth birthday! It is the time of life when you arrive at a new and awful dignity;
when you may throw aside the decent reserves which have oppressed you for a generation and
stand unafraid and unabashed upon your seven-terraced summit and look down and teach--unrebuked.
You can tell the world how you got there. It is what they all do. You shall never get tired
of telling by what delicate arts and deep moralities you climbed up to that great place. You
will explain the process and dwell on the particulars with senile rapture. I have been anxious
to explain my own system this long time, and now at last I have the right.

I have achieved my seventy years in the usual way: by sticking strictly to a scheme of life
which would kill anybody else. It sounds like an exaggeration, but that is really the common
rule for attaining to old age. When we examine the programme of any of these garrulous old
people we always find that the habits which have preserved them would have decayed us; that
the way of life which enabled them to live upon the property of their heirs so long, as Mr.
Choate says, would have put us out of commission ahead of time. I will offer here, as a sound
maxim, this: That we can't reach old age by another man's road.

I will now teach, offering my way of life to whomsoever desires to commit suicide by the scheme
which has enabled me to beat the doctor and the hangman for seventy years. Some of the details
may sound untrue, but they are not. I am not here to deceive; I am here to teach.

We have no permanent habits until we are forty. Then they begin to harden, presently they petrify,
then business begins. Since forty I have been regular about going to bed and getting up--and
that is one of the main things. I have made it a rule to go to bed when there wasn't anybody
left to sit up with; and I have made it a rule to get up when I had to. This has resulted in
an unswerving regularity of irregularity. It has saved me sound, but it would injure another
person.

In the matter of diet--which is another main thing--I have been persistently strict in sticking
to the things which didn't agree with me until one or the other of us got the best of it. Until
lately I got the best of it myself. But last spring I stopped frolicking with mince-pie after
midnight; up to then I had always believed it wasn't loaded. For thirty years I have taken
coffee and bread at eight in the morning, and no bite nor sup until seven-thirty in the evening.
Eleven hours. That is all right for me, and is wholesome, because I have never had a headache
in my life, but headachy people would not reach seventy comfortably by that road, and they
would be foolish to try it. And I wish to urge upon you this--which I think is wisdom--that
if you find you can't make seventy by any but an uncomfortable road, don't you go. When they
take off the Pullman and retire you to the rancid smoker, put on your things, count your checks,
and get out at the first way station where there's a cemetery.

I have made it a rule never to smoke more than one cigar at a time. I have no other restriction
as regards smoking. I do not know just when I began to smoke, I only know that it was in my
father's lifetime, and that I was discreet. He passed from this life early in 1847, when I
was a shade past eleven; ever since then I have smoked publicly. As an example to others, and--not
that I care for moderation myself, it has always been my rule never to smoke when asleep, and
never to refrain when awake. It is a good rule. I mean, for me; but some of you know quite
well that it wouldn't answer for everybody that's trying to get to be seventy.

I smoke in bed until I have to go to sleep; I wake up in the night, sometimes once, sometimes
twice; sometimes three times, and I never waste any of these opportunities to smoke. This habit
is so old and dear and precious to me that I would feel as you, sir, would feel if you should
lose the only moral you've got--meaning the chairman--if you've got one: I am making no charges:
I will grant, here, that I have stopped smoking now and then, for a few months at a time, but
it was not on principle, it was only to show off; it was to pulverize those critics who said
I was a slave to my habits and couldn't break my bonds.

To-day it is all of sixty years since I began to smoke the limit. I have never bought cigars
with life-belts around them. I early found that those were too expensive for me: I have always
bought cheap cigars--reasonably cheap, at any rate. Sixty years ago they cost me four dollars
a barrel, but my taste has improved, latterly, and I pay seven, now. Six or seven. Seven, I
think. Yes; it's seven. But that includes the barrel. I often have smoking-parties at my house;
but the people that come have always just taken the pledge. I wonder why that is?

As for drinking, I have no rule about that. When the others drink I like to help; otherwise
I remain dry, by habit and preference. This dryness does not hurt me, but it could easily hurt
you, because you are different. You let it alone.

Since I was seven years old I have seldom take, a dose of medicine, and have still seldomer
needed one. But up to seven I lived exclusively on allopathic medicines. Not that I needed
them, for I don't think I did; it was for economy; my father took a drug-store for a debt,
and it made cod-liver oil cheaper than the other breakfast foods. We had nine barrels of it,
and it lasted me seven years. Then I was weaned. The rest of the family had to get along with
rhubarb and ipecac and such things, because I was the pet. I was the first Standard Oil Trust.
I had it all. By the time the drugstore was exhausted my health was established, and there
has never been much the matter with me since. But you know very well it would be foolish for
the average child to start for seventy on that basis. It happened to be just the thing for
me, but that was merely an accident; it couldn't happen again in a century.

I have never taken any exercise, except sleeping and resting, and I never intend to take any.
Exercise is loathsome. And it cannot be any benefit when you are tired; and I was always tired.
But let another person try my way, and see where he will come out. I desire now to repeat and
emphasise that maxim: We can't reach old age by another man's road. My habits protect my life,
but they would assassinate you.

I have lived a severely moral life. But it would be a mistake for other people to try that,
or for me to recommend it. Very few would succeed: you have to have a perfectly colossal stock
of morals; and you can't get them on a margin; you have to have the whole thing, and put them
in your box. Morals are an acquirement--like music, like a foreign language, like piety, poker,
paralysis--no man is born with them. I wasn't myself, I started poor. I hadn't a single moral.
There is hardly a man in this house that is poorer than I was then. Yes, I started like that--the
world before me, not a moral in the slot. Not even an insurance moral. I can remember the first
one I ever got. I can remember the landscape, the weather, the--I can remember how everything
looked. It was an old moral, an old second-hand moral, all out of repair, and didn't fit, anyway.
But if you are careful with a thing like that, and keep it in a dry place, and save it for
processions, and Chautauquas, and World's Fairs, and so on, and disinfect it now and then,
and give it a fresh coat of whitewash once in a while, you will be surprised to see how well
she will last and how long she will keep sweet, or at least inoffensive. When I got that mouldy
old moral, she had stopped growing, because she hadn't any exercise; but I worked her hard,
I worked her Sundays and all. Under this cultivation she waxed in might and stature beyond
belief, and served me well and was my pride and joy for sixty-three years; then she got to
associating with insurance presidents, and lost flesh and character, and was a sorrow to look
at and no longer competent for business. She was a great loss to me. Yet not all loss. I sold
her--ah, pathetic skeleton, as she was--I sold her to Leopold, the pirate King of Belgium;
he sold her to our Metropolitan Museum, and it was very glad to get her, for without a rag
on, she stands 57 feet long and 16 feet high, and they think she's a brontosaur. Well, she
looks it. They believe it will take nineteen geological periods to breed her match.

Morals are of inestimable value, for every man is born crammed with sin microbes, and the only
thing that can extirpate these sin microbes is morals. Now you take a sterilized Christian--I
mean, you take the sterilized Christian, for there's only one. Dear sir, I wish you wouldn't
look at me like that.

Threescore years and ten!

It is the Scriptural statute of limitations. After that, you owe no active duties; for you
the strenuous life is over. You are a time-expired man, to use Kipling's military phrase: You
have served your term, well or less well, and you are mustered out. You are become an honorary
member of the republic, you are emancipated, compulsions are not for you, nor any bugle-tail
but "lights out." You pay the time-worn duty bills if you choose, or decline if you prefer--and
without prejudice--for they are not legally collectable.

The previous-engagement plea, which in forty years has cost you so many tinges, you cam lay
aside forever; on this side of the grave you will never need it again. If you shrink at thought
of night, and winter, and the late home-coming from the banquet and the lights and the laughter
through the deserted streets--a desolation which would not remind you now, as for a generation
it did, that your friends are sleeping, and you must creep in a-tiptoe and not disturb them,
but would only remind you that you need not tiptoe, you can never disturb them more--if you
shrink at thought of these things, you need only reply, "Your invitation honors me, and pleases
me because you still keep me in your remembrance, but I am seventy; seventy, and would nestle
in the chimney-corner, and smoke my pipe, and read my book, and take my rest, wishing you well
in all affection; and that when you in your return shall arrive at pier No. 70 you may step
aboard your waiting ship with a reconciled spirit, and lay your course toward the sinking sun
with a contented heart."