We may concede without disloyalty that Solon is peculiar unto himself. In his presence you
are cursed with an unquiet suspicion that he may become frivolous with you at any moment,--may,
indeed, be so at that moment, despite a due facial gravity and tones of weight,--for he will
not infrequently seem to be both trivial and serious in the same breath. Again, he is amazingly
sensitive for one not devoid of humor. In a pleasant sense he is acutely aware of himself,
and he does not dislike to know that you feel his quality. Still again, he is bound to spice
his writing. Were it his lot to report events on the Day of Judgment, I believe the Argus account
would be thought too highly colored by many persons of good taste.

But Little Arcady knows that Solon is loyal to its welfare--knows that he is fit to wield the
mightiest lever of Civilization in its behalf on Wednesday of each week.

We know now, moreover, that an undercurrent of circumstance existed which did not even ripple
the surface of that apparently facetious brutality hurled at J. Rodney Potts.

The truth may not be told in a word. But it was in this affair that Solon Denney won his title
of "Boss of Little Arcady," a title first rendered unto him somewhat in derision, I regret
to say, by a number of our leading citizens, who sought, as it were, to make sport of him.

It began in a jest, as do all the choicest tragedies of the gods,--a few lines of idle badinage,
meant to spice Solon's column of business locals with a readable sprightliness. The thing was
printed, in fact, between "Let Harpin Cust shine your face with his new razors" and "See that
line of clocks at Chislett's for sixty cents. They look like cuckoos and keep good time."

"Not much news this week," the item blithely ran, "so we hereby start the rumor that 'Upright'
Potts is going to leave town. We would incite no community to lawless endeavor, but--may the
Colonel encounter swiftly in his new environment that warm reception to which his qualities
of mind, no less than his qualities of heart, so richly entitle him,--that reception, in short,
which our own debilitated public spirit has timidly refused him. We claim the right to start
any rumor of this sort that will cheer the souls of an admiring constituency. Now is the time
to pay up that subscription."

The intention, of course, was openly playful--a not subtle sally meant to be read and forgotten.
Yet--will it be credited?--more than one of us read it so hurriedly, perhaps with so passionate
a longing to have it the truth, as not to perceive its satirical indirections. The rumor actually
lived for a day that Potts was to disembarrass the town of his presence.

And then, from the fictitious stuff of this rumor was spawned a veritable inspiration. Several
of our most public-spirited citizens seemed to father it simultaneously.

"Why should Potts not leave town--why should he not seek out a new field of effort?"

"Field of effort" was a rank bit of poesy, it being certain that Potts would never make an
effort worthy of the name in any field whatsoever; but the sense of it was plain.

Increasingly with the years had plans been devised to alleviate the condition of Potts's residence
among us. Some of these had required a too definite and artificial abruptness in the mechanics
of his removal; others, like Eustace Eubanks's plot for having all our best people refuse to
notice him, depended upon a sensitiveness in the person aimed at which he did not possess.
Besides, there had been talk of disbarring him from the practice of his profession, and I,
as a lawyer, had been urged to instigate that proceeding. Unquestionably there was ground for it.

But now this random pleasantry of Solon Denney's set our minds to working in another direction.

In the broad, pleasant window of the post-office, under the "NO LOAFING HERE!" sign, half a
dozen of us discussed it while we waited for the noon mail. There seemed to be a half-formed
belief that Potts might adroitly be made to perceive advantages in leaving us.

"It's a whole lot better to manipulate and be subtle in a case like this," suggested the editor
of the Argus. "Threats of violence, forcible expulsion, disbarment proceedings--all crude--and
besides they won't move Potts. Jonas Rodney may not be gifted with a giant intellect, but he
is cunning."

"The cunning of a precocious boy," prompted Eustace Eubanks, who was one of us. "He is well
aware that we would not dare attempt lawless violence."

"Exactly, Eustace," answered Solon. "I tell you, gentlemen, this thriving little town needs
a canning factory, as we all know; but more than a canning factory it needs a Boss,--one of
those strong characters that make tools of their fellow-men, who rule our cities with an iron
hand but take care to keep the hand in a velvet glove,--a Boss that is diplomatic, yet an autocrat."

That careless use of the term "Boss" was afterward seen to be unfortunate for Solon. They remembered
it against him.

"That's right," said Westley Keyts. "Let's be diplomatic with him."

"How would you begin, Westley, if you don't mind telling us?" Solon had already begun to shape
a scheme of his own.

"Why," answered Westley, looking very earnest, "just go up to him in a quiet, refined manner--no
blustering, understand--and say in a low tone, kind of off-hand but serious, 'Now, look a'
here, Potts, old boy, let's talk this thing over like a couple of gentlemen had ought to.'
'Well, all right,' says Potts, 'that's fair--I couldn't refuse that as from one gentleman to
another gentleman.' Well, then, say to him, 'Now, Potts, you know as well as any man in this
town that you're an all-round no-good--you're a human Not--and a darn scalawag into the bargain.
So what's the use? Will you go, or won't you?' Then if he'd begin to hem and haw and try to
put it off with one thing or another, why, just hint in a roundabout way--perfectly genteel,
you understand--that there'd be doings with a kittle of tar and feathers that same night at
eight-thirty sharp, rain or shine, with a free ride right afterward to the town line and mebbe
a bit beyond, without no cushions. Up about the Narrows would be a good place to say farewell,"
he concluded thoughtfully.

We had listened patiently enough, but this was too summary. Westley Keyts is our butcher, a
good, honest, energetic, downright business man with a square forehead and a blunt jaw and
red hair that bristles with challenges. But he seems compelled to say too nearly what he means
to render him useful in negotiations requiring any considerable finesse.

"We were speaking, Westley, of the gentle functions of diplomacy," remarked Solon, cuttingly.
"Of course, we could waylay Potts and kill him with one of your cleavers and have his noble
head stuffed and mounted to hang up over Barney Skeyhan's bar, but it wouldn't be subtle--it
would not be what the newspapers call 'a triumph of diplomacy'! And then, again, reports of
it might be carried to other towns, and talk would be caused."

"Now, say," retorted Westley, somewhat abashed, "I was thinking I answered all that by winding
up the way like I did, asking him,--not mad-like, you understand,--'Now will you go or won't
you?' just like that. All I can say is, if that ain't diplomacy, then I don't know what in
Time diplomacy is!"

I think we conceded this, in silence, be it understood, for Westley is respected. But we looked
to Solon for a more tenuous subtlety. Nor did he fail us. Two days later Potts upon the public
street actually announced his early departure from Little Arcady.

