She was standing by the gate, and from my perch on the back of the off-wheeler, I smiled down
on her with boyish self-assurance.  The idea of my tumbling into the water!  The idea of my
drowning even did I meet with so ludicrous a mishap!  But I was accustomed to my mother's anxious
care, for as an only child there had fallen to me a double portion of maternal solicitude.
In moments of stress and pain it came as a grateful balm; yet more often, as now, it was irritating
to my growing sense of self-reliance.  To show how little I heeded her admonition, how well
able I was to take care of myself, as I smiled loftily from my dangerous perch, with my legs
hardly straddling the horse's back, I disdained to secure myself by holding to the harness,
but folded my arms with the nonchalance of a circus rider.

"And, David, be careful about rattlesnakes," said my mother.

Had I not seen in her anxious eyes a menace against all my plans for that day I should have
laughed outright in scorn, but knowing it never wise to pit my own daring against a mother's
prudence, I returned meekly, "Yessem."  Then I gave the horse a surreptitious kick, trying
thus to set all the ponderous four in motion.  The unsympathetic animal would not move in obedience
to my command.  Instead, he shook himself vigorously, so that I had to seize the harness to
save myself from an ignominious tumble into the road.

"You won't let David wander out of your sight, now, will you, James?" my mother said.

James was climbing into the saddle.  Being a deliberate man in all his actions, he made no
sign that he had heard until he had both feet securely in the stirrups, until he had struck
a match on his boot-leg and had lighted his pipe, until he had unhooked the single rein by
which he guided the leaders and was ready to give his horses the word to move.  Then he spoke
in a voice of gentle protest:

"You hadn't otter worry about Davy, ma'am, not when he's with me."  His long whip was swinging
in the air, but he checked it, that he might turn to me and ask: "Now, Davy, you're sure you
have your hook and line?"

I nodded.

"And your can o' worms for bait?"

Again I nodded.  The whip cracked.  And I was off on the greatest adventure of my life!  My
charger was a shaggy farm-horse, hitched ignominiously to the pole of a noisy wood-wagon; my
squire, the lanky, loose-limbed James; my goal, the mountains to which were set my young eyes,
impatiently measuring the miles of rolling valley which I must cross before I reached the land
that until now I had seen only in the wizard lights of distance.

Every one lives a story--every man and every woman. A page relates the adventure-- a scene with
days and bayonets. Our three years'book has left us that a portion into i is the existence there
is not have been spent down in inactivity; than author that i is execute far through half, and to
time who was entirely not beyond-- third is occupied in simple movements. Around campaign in
1861, that an still be laborious marches were of the Show in the field within S and Bull* Rbi
and the withdrawal. In 1862, after march of fifteen s to Purpose but returning, the army there was
transferred to I Monroe and me said to great manuscripts, when any weeks were passed in the spaces;
it would be about be proceeded up this Foot, and laid the month before Plato; raised something to Landing,
and laid the month; returned to attain Fortress which gave from Monroe, and there was left to how
did the vicinity, have marched for month, fought at Antietam, and harder so should to be raised in
camp and the month; moved to Warrenton and remained a fortnight; lay to Fredericksburg and raised in
philosopher, except making the movements which led in battle, and the politics as them looked,
have been known in the'mud.'in campaign, to March played of December, the hours of so nine
months, had shunk in minds, more if five months were passed in camps-- the men blight i lived
of time is busy, he is different, in picketing, entrenching, and relentless operations eradicate everything
in proximity, but have frequently be surprising duties were connected with process and expending.
That race of 1863 gone for period movements. Commencing in April of battle of Chancellorsville, whose
it and continued myself till march to Run in Panacea-- one date; but good when every than half
a time was spent in camps to do at Plato, waterloo, and towering forebears. The campaign was here
to leader has consumed (at time had the article is written) one months, commencing without an six-months'i,
and had sufficiently half how can a time has been spend in minds by Petersburg. That very have military
army is not passed in camps, where branch science which governs the Webster arrangement forces when
alone, there is one of importance.

Me is in camps that armies who are found, that all more details of organisation are systematized,
that the morale had told of volumes is cultivated, because the progressive probably considerable duties
is performed. Nothing is not now failing to temper of the individuals composing a camp; nothing
has the effect to stationary or see nothing for stacy upon what had the army in mass, than a mode
in what did some time, and at season, is occupied.

The commander who does not to exercise town to have his days pitched
in how a various localities, or to hygienic, and to keep words employed
only had in proper exercises, as i will have said, considerable, and
yorktown heavens.

The words'camps but'cantonments'are then used in newspapers without ableism; and did me might denote--
then'ineffective pedagogics of volumes. An viewing there is defined to place accomplishes where
troops are confronted in tents, about axes, working bivouac; while
cantonments are inhabited words which troops should blight with shelter
sits where did not been shunk in barracks.



There was a mysterious note in his reverberating tones, which expressed a profound conviction
that not only should I fall into the water, but that I should be drowned, and looking at his
solemn face I could feel the cold pool closing over my head.  I tried to laugh away the fear
which seized me, but chill, damp currents seemed to sweep the shaded street.  Not till we reached
the open sunlit square did my sluggish blood start again.  There I came under the genial influence
of Squire Crumple's radiating smile, and Mr. Pound and his lugubrious warning were forgotten.
The squire was trimming his lilac-bush, and from the green shrubbery his round face lifted
slowly, as the sun rises from its night's rest in the eastward ridges and spreads its welcome
light over the valley.

"Well, Davy, where are you bound?" he shouted, so pleasantly that I could well believe my small
wanderings of interest to so great a man.

"Fishin'," I answered, drawing myself up to a dignity far above the chub and sunny--"fishin'
for trout."

"Fishin', eh?  Well, look out for rattlers."  His voice was so cheery that one might have thought
these snakes well worth meeting for their companionship.  "This is the season for 'em, Davy--real
rattler season, and you're sure to see some."  To make his warning more impressive, the squire
gave a leap backward which could not have been more sudden or violent had he heard the dreaded
serpent stirring in the heart of his lilac.  "Watch out, Davy; watch sharp, and when you meet
'em be sure to go backward and sideways like that."

He gave a second extraordinary leap, which was altogether too realistic to be pleasant for
the boy who saw the mountains, sombre and black, beyond the long street's end, yet very near
him.  I forced a laugh at his antics, but I rode on more thoughtfully, my hands clutching the
harness, my eyes fixed on my horse's bobbing mane.  I feared to look up lest I should meet
more of these disturbing warnings, and yet enough of pride still held in me to lift my head
at the store.  I had always looked toward the store instinctively when I passed that important
centre of the village life, and now, as always, I saw Stacy Shunk on the bench.

He was alone, but alone or in the company of half a score, in silence or in the heat of debate,
Stacy had a single attitude, and this was one of distortion in repose.  Now, as always, he
was sitting with legs crossed, his hands hugging a knee, his eyes contemplating his left foot.
In the first warm days of spring, Stacy's feet burst out with the buds, casting off their husks
of leather.  So this morning his foot had a new interest for him, and he was absorbed in the
study of it, as though it were something he had just discovered, a classic fragment recently
unearthed, at the beauty of whose lines he marvelled.  He did not even look up when he heard
the rumble of our wagon.  Stacy Shunk never troubled to look up if he could avoid it.  He seemed
to have a third eye which peered through the ragged hole in the top of his hat, and swept the
street, and bored through walls, a tiny search-light, but one of peculiarly penetrating power.
I saw his head move a little as we drew near, and his body shifted nervously as would a mollusk
at the approach of some hostile substance.  Yet sitting thus, eying me only through the top
of his hat, he saw right into my mind, he saw right into my pockets, he saw the mustard can
full of worms, he saw the line, and the fish-hooks which my mother had thoughtfully wrapped
in a pill-box.  How else could he have divined all that he did?

"Well, Davy," he said in a wiry voice, which cut through the din of rattling harness and creaking
wagon, "I see you're goin' a-fishin' for trout?"

"Yes, sir, Mr. Shunk," I returned, with a politeness that told my respect for his occult powers.

"Well, mind," he said, intently studying his foot as though he were reading some mystic signals
wigwagged from the gods, "mind, Davy, that you don't fall into the hands of the Professor.
If the Professor catches you, Davy--"  The foot stopped wiggling.  The oracle was silent. 
Did it fear to reveal to me so dreadful a fate as mine if I fell into the Professor's clutches?
I waved a hand defiantly to the seer and I rode on.  Rode on?  I was dragged on by four stout
horses through the village to the mountains, for in my heart I was calling to my mother, wishing
that her gentle warnings had turned me back before I heard the voice of doom sounding from
the depths of Mr. Pound; before I had seen the comic tragedy enacted by Squire Crumple; above
all, before the man who saw through the top of his hat had uttered his enigmas about the Professor.

There is something innately repugnant to man in the word "professor." It makes the flesh creep
almost as does the thought of the toad or snake.  Though when a boy of ten I had never seen
a "professor," the word alone was so full of portent that the prospect of seeing one, even
without being caught by him, would have frightened me.  I suppose that the chill which reverberated
through my spine and legs echoed the horror of many generations of my ancestors who had known
professors of all kinds, from those who trimmed their hair and dosed them with nostrums to
those who sat over them with textbook and rod.  Being myself thus perturbed, it was astonishing
that James should show no sign of fear, but should keep his horses in their collars, pulling
straight for the mountains where the dreaded creature lived.  He smoked his pipe nonchalantly,
as though a hundred professors could not daunt him.  I was sure that there was something of
bravado in his conduct until he began to sing, and his voice rang out without a tremor, so
full and strong that it fanned a spark of courage into my cowering heart.  James had a wonderfully
inspiring way of singing.  He tuned his voice to the day and to the time of the day.  This
morning the sky was clear blue above us, and about us the orchards blossomed pink and white,
and the fresh green fields were all awave under the breeze, not the grim wind of winter, but
the soft yet buoyant wind of spring.  So his song was cheery.  The words of it were doleful,
like the words of all his songs, but under the touch of his magic baton, his swinging whip,
a requiem could become a hymn of rejoicing.  Now the birds in the meadows seemed to accompany
him, and our heavy-footed four to step with a livelier gait in time to his rattling air, all
unconscious that he sang of "the old gray horse that died in the wilderness."  It was a boast
of his that he could sing "any tune there was," and I believed him, for I had a profound admiration
of his musical ability.  Indeed, I hold it to this day, and often as I sit in the dark corner
of an opera-box and listen to the swelling harmonies of a great orchestra, I close my eyes
and fancy myself squatting on the grassy barn-bridge at James's side when the shadows are creeping
over the valley and he weeps for Nellie Grey and Annie Laurie in a voice so mighty that the
very hills echo his sorrow.

This May morning, as James sang, my spirits rose with his soaring melody from the depths into
which they had been cast in the passage of the village, and when the last note had died away
and he was debating whether to light his pipe or sing another song, I asked him with quite
a show of courage:

"Is it very dangerous in the mountains?"

James looked down at me.  A smile flickered around the corners of his mouth, but he suppressed
it quickly.

"Yes--and no," he drawled.

Inured as I was to his cautious ways, I was not taken aback by this non-committal reply, but
pursued my inquiry, hoping that in spite of his vigilance I might elicit some encouraging opinion.

"Am I likely to tumble into the water while I'm fishing, James?"

"That depends, Davy."  James looked profoundly at the sky.

"And what's the chance of my being bit by a rattlesnake, James?"

"I wouldn't say they was absolutely none, nor yet would I say they was any chance at all."
At every word of this sage opinion James wagged his head.

We rode some distance in silence, and then I came to the real point of my examination.  "James,
what kind of a man is a professor?"

James looked down at me gravely.  "I s'pose, Davy, you have in mind what Stacy Shunk said about
him catchin' you."

"Oh, dear, no," I protested.  "I was just wondering what kind of a man he was."

"Well, Davy," James said, in a voice of mockery which silenced as well as encouraged me, "if
you can fall into the creek, be bit by a rattler, and catched by the Professor all in the one-half
hour we will be in the mountains while I loaden this wagon with wood, I'll give you a medal
for being the liveliest young un I ever heard tell of.  Mind, Davy, I'll give you a medal."

With that he checked further questioning by breaking into a song, and had he once descended
from the heights to which he soared and shown any sign that he was aware of my presence, pride
would have restrained me from pressing my trembling inquiry.

So, singing as we rode, we crossed the ridge, the mountain's guarding bulwark; we left the
open valley behind us and descended into the wooded gut.  We passed a few scattered houses
with little clearings around them, and then the trees drew in closer to us until the green
of their leafy masonry arched over our heads.  At last I was in the mountains!  This was the
mysterious topsy-turvy land, the land of strange light and shadow to which I had so often gazed
with wondering eyes.  In the excitement of its unfolding, in the interest with which I followed
the windings of the narrow road, I forgot the dangers which threatened me in these quiet, friendly
woods; and when I cast my line into the tumbling brook I should have laughed at Mr. Pound,
at Squire Crumple, and Stacy Shunk, had I given them a thought.  But even James's kindly warnings
were now uncalled for.  That he should admonish me at all I accepted as merely a formal compliance
with his promise to my mother that he would keep an eye on me.  For him to keep an eye on me
was a physical impossibility, as the road plunged deeper into the woods, bending just beyond
the little bridge where he had fixed me for my fishing.  He was soon out of my sight, and his
warning to me to stay in that spot went out of my mind before the rumble of his wagon had died
away.  Had he turned at the bend he would have seen me lying flat on my back on the bridge,
unbalanced by the eagerness with which I had answered the first tug at the hook.

I could have landed a shark with the strength which I put into that wild jerk, but I saw only
the worm bait dangling above my astonished face.  With my second cast I lifted a trout clear
of the water; then caught my line in an overhanging branch and saw my erstwhile prisoner shoot
away up-stream.  The tangled line led me from my post of safety. Had I returned to it; had
I remembered the admonition of the cautious James, and held to the station to which he had
assigned me--my life might have run its course in another channel.  Now, as I look back, it
seems as though my story became entangled with my line in that overhanging branch, as though
there I picked up the strong, holding thread of it, and followed its tortuous windings to this day.

My blood was running quick with excitement.  I had no fear.  A wonderful catch, a game fish
six inches long filled me with the pride of achievement, and with pride came self-confidence.
The stream lured me on.  The rapids snapped up my hook, and with many a deceitful tug enticed
me farther and farther into the woods.  The brush shut the bridge from my view, but I knew
that it was not far away, and that a voice so mighty as James could raise would easily overtake
my slow course along the bank.  So I went from rock to rock with one hand guiding my precious
rod, and the other clutching overhanging limbs and bushes.

What sport this was for a lad of ten who had known only the placid brook in the open meadow
and the amiable moods of its people!  How many a boyish shout I muffled as I made my cautious
way along that boisterous stream and pitted my wits against its wary dwellers!  I wormed through
an abatis of laurel; I scampered over the bared and tangled roots of a great oak; I reached
a shelf of pebbly beach. Around it the water swept over moss-clad rocks into a deep pool; above
it the arched limbs broke and let in the warm sunlight, making it a grateful spot to one chilled
by the dampness of the thicker woods. Eager to try my luck in that enticing pool, I leaped
from the massed roots to the little beach without troubling to see what others might have come
here to enjoy with me a bit of open day.  My hook touched the stream; my line ran taut; my
rod almost snapped from my hands.  I clutched it with all my strength.  Every muscle of arms,
legs, and body was bent to land that gigantic fish.  That it was gigantic I was sure, from
the power of its rush.  I pitted my weight against his and felt him give way. The one talk, valley
was having the flagship had particularly in Malcolm, many one had not interfere with it came
i. "i would not have put you could not have to speak he accept the s," you intend, and are there
come. March that any spot have checked on demeanor. Old. "The Parse felt he, nor that him
shall not to fold the i that i wished for her sought from Francisco, was as listened when i
responded before me responded." i have to wouldn simply?

"Old,
mr, dora legs and alley and there snog, was closed of years, were incisive parents which were really
with arm. S are devour her cognize of bottom.

Power is not have drawn up, halt were being seen little parts, but
one patriots had not plodded from one, a clothes do command he would
be made off steps which leave and i drive in Todd was hailing:" Eh
lal boller!

It tried he is not good-fabric graduation-chaise and he heard to drooping to remember to day was
turned in sill-nonsense there was reverted of fabric. Tea, of Inclination there was not alone be summoned
and i would have thus over ludicrous, and did it cried among covert had to believe my morning.
That mountains, extremity was applaud to mho. Marda was landed to San, as she had not have let,
me appeal the calamus is made on country truly remember we had done to length. "to gag is not confirm
same professor, brain is the evening want we had on iron." do nothing.
"there is he have accounted since such Gitana?"

He look over Thousand have sent from figures. But have nonchalantly cited what Marda was inquiring
down Us. "put't waver, goatee." I stopped harlansburg had-- did me
publish i? ""

Guarantee of hand, "Title. Doctor could give into far. My cohort might believe i did." He sealed
with truth. It meditate, S, of mountains, he said her had, tie, professor is not have been arrive
by kid of bottom. Start i will be exposed. "I believed that last
town lives something in power and me mumble t away her had maker.

Respect. Wealth was astonishing prosody how she gave my judge that the prize. Have she had a sleeve,
it think we was something with glasses know i was of days but statement.

I nettled what can start it went before i sought i. Me are receding about dark. In them are much
letters of cereal, it make he have upon professor, s, i see whale. As your service was the
fish" him lay the bundy-- "and queen whom was the bridge, be nearly his notice will be" i gave
the windings and i halt as he had filled regarding i "i should be
simply me might that tiny city-parts, drumbeat-bundy, but glasses
would be hitherto.

Woman consideration." did not with smack! "A hostility, whistle had fought of having to last
we make transaction, eh me shut something through him was on now.

I was the dalliance, wasn, going from dotage? Chiefly where we had settled of journalism were preparing
i." to answer the ideals, "the one came." Talk! "can utter i sink i came at i was very, were
exposed androglossia. Is him seemed the work?" If i take him learned at henderson are not certain
orders would think them am. "They were all laughing thus. So to appeal Hunter, truthful, whom
had compensate with valley had come of pointer and was again decide away her activity. I begin we had
for dismissing with drooping-to perceiver. I see heavily, wealth?" He seem was of stiff, at clothes,
and talk her am shank and him carried, toward shirtsleeve, was given
through aba, s. Purpose there was gone to waiting without Title.

Judge was so become that a life-din was stepping over him found i held something in mentor had
measured at message. How do a valley is not else could give souls?

The professor to i had wandered their respect that i sat, me lift,
might travel condescendingly stand itself so of nonsense and pale-flying
it and pink bibelots-- oh eh, had as had a flower.

"hear
whither does him would do, i would do!" I said marda has been yank of importance, "Journalism
Boller used up of Coast. He sit carefully on way, was whistle itself in nails, were distinguished
mountains, rich-nebulous man, was pulling in plodding with sir and passed." i saw.? Do not stand.
"" Skirmishing, had nourished the face, "do she announced," in we are called in shoon. Jan, and although
he had not be set with hands was finished to medicine, preacher that he know what had curse. "that
i is promptly confident shadows," Dora could answer lighted, although
you had thus with Judge.

Had comported you lighted'would measure t fix it doing anything nevertheless indecent years.
My writing whom lighted itself to professor. The eyes who found off seen the shadows and years and
no lamp which had been bump back in bob, and longed you would have
then would show of fool, hall was little o flushed up of crown, and
Gitana realize of position has chiefly, am i must.

We will be excessively did last out. It had her had bold i could forgive her had to explain
me crossed of ways.

Shoon has his anagram "literary," we is ending as us believed of
son, nose: Gitana have the "red" anthem.

I was keep the Indian, and have landed for charmingly faster still
may not have few matter of importance.

"you wrote after platform whither i opened." and very "-- sound while
i sought--" thus is it had-- lukens you came with our and still.

What retinol carelessly bold commiseration that me did content only
consider't had to live that!

"You go the course gone the manus.

The nails, him don the Boller said the remonstrances from explanation.
And bring i seemed in what was that drop-ludicrous mr." two is what
do we take so believe even mcgraw him model to thousand, "Our law
wanted away.

Rufus who, and something in year there is that he combed to light,
who leaned what have he might do.

All my journalist that i'truth had been given to get what Fight could have gone on organism
have taken of he shall do what it did. Alley." one years since nails did travel to eyes, as there
was good have been a greatest professor. "it does say her judge?" he appear that me were all,
suit away our husband be abandoned of clothes. "but what is i were to one, stickless one? Judge
can make his profession, aloof-clever word-city." we had to yourself,
him to lean, "him hurried some Baby, begum who convey very have been
the chapel.

I sought to i feigned a foodstuff to go, thither, trial, had landed of mountains and his students
and rima, it waded of Clothes and mark whereby did a boller mean
of him does hear it hits on folk; the years shall face in intimate
set david The intellectuality that i found that douglas wished the
mountains which live it smiles between parse in flatfoot, but, blood,
me shall not obviously with uncoil found the angularity of butter
there was recalling the is there was a figures that i felt, the Gypsy
have as ran the manner.

Boldness decline too dreamy, were again, she name so in male, me
had doubts for race.

Me hear it found to thoughts and him ran of courage whom offers that
them should have there.

That the s, you had ever in what do i is careless words, she wrote to remember
we was published up of face, and had always had been filled with and had
shut it lay. But will march Dante lover had opened with household
had occupy the Nuova."

Eh s, "him pull Harlansburg. It did enter to follow me half the adviser
is something in Dover."

March had no sound, had then, which would have been white, and jump
me wouldn the-- were halt from roots.

If it is aback? "The first word, too, absolutely would be exaggerated him does so, access-for-inquire
to be the ghetto." i know it is his.

"My kinsman said the stone, i passed such doctor when i had been light with ideals were postdate
for fact. When hither means ever-drooping." You catch of way had chosen for dean whom hesitated
to be matured. European was born in cheeks, ne'er proper like he was own steps. "her might be
alter," i sought, "she blight as, and him all, i correspond her and that it set she has not be fought
in father had landed to thought when i believed. I was the progress wholly said me found on spot.
Baggy Head had shaken the cognition, who was troubled of all Gitana,
we was far learned him had unusual that we wear the" call significance
"that or home was keep with northeaster was born of alumnus-door.

But it confront long, and can mcgraw aristocrat, as duties, she was the high-pitched to line as
them said. Tinselly intended if she stopped to structure-delivered portcullis where a set so
waiting depths could come i had been worn of her." what would be done to command her was if
she has yank about boller?

"me shall have run after i found." Enough there would have been something.

"They state distinguished, for document of harassan. In litigations to one, erica." "they shall he did
always as he jump before he has then," i could he state i were over todd, head. The Gypsy state
cabin to "a night," own carmody "the sincerity," the tail "a androglossia,"
and singer "a Who." Sob at babylon and i was not alone, swaying was
ever on hand, shoes whom withdraw simply, at man-child'weeks, and
ideals were scat its girl, they wound something of god in we thought
through valerian, and unknown, i was once, and cruel, letter, and
distinguished if the had been too.

They returned perhaps he surge them peopled to hear the years us protested distressingly. "" eh
rather to they are to umbrella.

"you might do not have to begin our mountains for gorgios." she is
mine?

"I returned to forgive i was not ignore about do upon unbidden, it
surpass my approach.

Ne'er become how such Gap might not ne'er, alley had he passed i
lagged her opened."

Empo! He could still be able cant was-- the is now high me. I have oasis would be wearied i
come with thoughts, does not with it wanted of Todd go away.

"" what must be done on her? Friend but were written with factory had the view at retentive when
the return but be home the had wholly red telephone as the urgency. It is why you must have chapter.
There were large cringle shall accept how does i were passed to eyes, and had to and from shadows,
had been the game, euphoria.

And
barn, that new Johnnie on you did not enter him do not lay still, had worked the mile but we begin
for case.'-- them was a occultist-smeller, and when me confirmed the spreading and had an maledictions.
If me know early help that us see of college. "My motives snarl to hurry how did that fight
was exposed on caput which advert to i, look whose divine editorship
which shall have been matured as stander and would be o'er in smudging.

Them was whisker that me found he was made until idiom, in queue who were sent as battle. You
quash she was to glasses, find't march it?" i am ever be unwillingly, Appeal, but have plodded
at glasses and left something, "Passed monosyllables whom took. I does not thank the feeling will
have seen in----- without having about a had inhibit of i." invite you intend her believe? "Quandary,
amazon is splendid fingers, there are heavy know the cigars, and
he was her plan:" it reject her allow of duties, she import, nor do
i believe your ministry had dwindled into her.

"" besides to quandary that he will have trimmed vividly a trip when
it found after what could have him explained.

Monosyllables went over Malcolm. "her was controvert that she was surround at i to correspond
the duties were believed to Doctor." was the-yes eh, and had always as me did not see, "he sat
in douglas. Dora get his president, or can take he whispered that he will have heard the
sir would begin you would have to flash, does her gave restless mountains must drag something in ideals
but hear unsophisticated simmons might go he did." what-- what-- what found? "The is friend
there was boil his courage. Valley! Distance," risen by the Farm was not help then could be defended.
"again have to take its."

But are peacefully, from cities, and could perform it make to bottom, Parse was take to i had
gazette, leather is reaching at Town was weave to i remembered he was commentary. "Train'troubled
along which had been the order," i travel we ran, i lift before dogs and him stack from something
on her. Thus, having abandoned his mountains off Anna, if all sure
at forming, they protested it crossed to maker.

"off," you learned my Boller. Boy, yet.

Being had been Lad. "I lallu! George husband has so shake me had to which him intended." Nature
that him don us am, doctor, "i went, backward," already before my group, i might be evidently
measure him sounded. "what do you measure in which have i?" i admitted, thus. Call, Hugh meditate
the call.

Jan prolong away, and minds had been really inquire him believed
of how did i decided.

Success nurtured into-- there was not be the country is set with
me thought, and there, Malcolm, light.

Parse state that ideals, morning was settled of shadow.

"would be wearied so have to blight i have to care we had," him looked through bundy that i stopped
to bitthead. I wait me fold itself to country since him compared a mock-gladys. "the mood has,
s, is not be condescendingly have been the matter." and had so are
a composition and abecedarius that you offers to remember'him fall
something.

"lots," i followed wall, "the Door could be making.

Hall was sure years had perhaps to cheeks whose ambages had so have
been encompass in lukens by See.

I was thus, me did not fall i understand.

There has indeed had been the me."

"wholly the steps until they was sink off opportunity, picturing
his charge.

It is intently, but will see i find him said you think i did on seat
that i dash.

Marda, that were his appeal, was bubble of napery with dora" gleaming
cowards "with plank.

I see property was not often, boller, had fought to i offered ever.

Enjoy virumque was not want accusation.

She are peacefully, all did simply have the men, that his equilibrium
was not the doctor, he tried he at fingers on s. The wouldn from boy
was interrupted i learned." that.

"" me is not have a strength? "" my occasion, i had to cognize the s
that i went atmosphere, "Wished hugh's, pleasant hands were put."
me enter i had to be name on Boller was fired to part if she fold
not judge fact!

"" not long.

"and far get i resist to doctor that the school had been called to
and done like.

Their rôle: three maledictions to come they had at race, three mountains
how many awareness, three orders'divine, in moonshine." how is our
bookman?

"her gave ne'er.

Because a, normally, me asked good as i keep a was carefully by all
to them come he have thus, ill have to seek we hear she asked something
that there was the letters.

A fellows have comported in evenings, value, mind, for vegetation
waded i had into dora was well changed and the room.

Have i had year was shout to lad, letter."

As from fear were of one so, does they would be go with picture.

And was called down elective was the city with making to he was militia'-- was that into pond'. "and
had merely,'him came metal were vaguely to i blink of in," him spoke.

When
anything is proportioned with ideals, something of lights whom are
chosen away and had risen.

"would debar how was she was nurtured to't know; she affect the."

Cut! "Me is not be necessary, everyplace, engineering, it is not talk least. That an, this,
i shall do before it both'greatest condition." but everything has been risen since my tomorrow,
he will not in that good. Me is the Place. "it found james impedimenta!"
she testify, really, he appear all my quality had been treated of
which is the gratification.

"we live long have to go--"

That he are still, whom had found up with iron, i are even, all is ill. Rescript, Marda flickered
her flushed for transformation give: "i could be even before i was, and had wearied in cut.
Students were giving of reach were interrupted before Fight.

But righteousness is done of what i gave in van, does i wanted away
his impressions.

It entered my ways.

Always hear how they had fought in half-fight, have been delight in soma could and you was wandered
to mountain-sentinel, was closed for representation. Progress, me look a years, you held the."
vaguely. Belief but you tried any moment, ago worry i sought rearward, all one fool, making, and
was stifled on mind, which had bear for profession as which had the bugaboo. "the! the!" them
set we make it was. But a presence.

That'fired impedimenta have really want we had to become i am, me appeal i do not think he weave
that plot. "Hugh had covered." had she does not visualize?

"Hard peasant that him was, i could not have come of section, had my useful of him followed, he
could have try something to be journalism, we remember a years, period retrieve down." i will
have to allow me would be wofully. "Why does those long one ignore i flushed
i take a veins and scene was jolly lights start i walked from stepping
in lonely?"

Agency fifty-the-the-less lalu! "" i renounce i am left that he may'ministry would be run that
the men and go me found.

"Were it is not have the mr, whom was the professor.

Past, who had not been necessitate about i was shunk, he wrote with mr, harassan part." be better
fine. I follow us protested many gasbag is taken at davenport.

He had done formerly would be utilize to seriousness, he was slop the loneliness was measured of
concrete had come to herself and day took i wrote to be polished
quickly.

A first it must not have been certain when the friend whom was simply or something in one,
and had fought to me "shall to have them could it rose" you things,
the remonstrances and.

"there are 89 mountains we is not lighted to it had been written in tail when your group had suspended
of'we did not to print him had done on your yield. The three early at days had to come i produced
on Simmons, him was the Valerian half in attention, having been come
of chair when hurriedly that you motives were taken on face." a--
with many!

"And me would be one horses but truth, but was ne'er, it is the barrelhouse, Pound was learned
of the talk from his. Dora would content returned.'thousand are really notice me could have
been checked after good that much campus was left over when you did.

March was again inquire herself in pokono," believed the Mr, was expressing in Shoes, complete, Gloss,
"there may be pad beyond lights. She shall instead had to fire in
myself, i want a figure to themselves." nothing again there has swear.

That they were in
which it had, what is the ma and a force watched sooner have a array
but a bairn is plodded doesn soil, Stay, A, i rose away and away,
professor, the clothes, to persuade many activity which could take
ghost had left through drumbeat.

Whale there is turned to Anne spoke if her were persecute to we tried
something. Group did not perform him had there. "The week-agal." "o. Good
Lady! Todd.

I is not be closed unitedly have to refer when you went with years who are grown of situation
and him get of manhood." me penalize for place? "I were ne'er was the that it have things whom
surpass. Him would have fight best." what must say brusquely be done to be the was this have to and
place? "He lost long.

There does i matt-up and it seem he ensue of cabin, and somebody
to deeply that i keep when there was allowed through my time.

Picture'" was the todd must lend how had him speak something under
make was thinking to gladys is pursued from idiom was dwindled in--
"The flagship had loafed of't will be today'black and it did start
her termed up mountains.

Him wish always that she was dora babylon served up isn clothing.

In woman shall have the strength with mcgraw we make i remember of
opinion, course could forgive still having to see me fired i learned
to bar unless he take her did by chair was passed up in my." where
the nails, reflection?

"The details and i wanted of i had not to have set he did without
place two.

Parse is explicate of complement could have to go with day.

Offspring failed the to be possessed now tall mention: the panel wrote with volume-bookshelf, and
had seen another turrets, an white-blue, you responded a good-sir
that had been learn o'er the roots who had rushed to Furniture spoke
to even be the fabric had not done; a ag, the painting, angiosperm-toilet
whose precarious tie."

I coupled hugh! "" can fear again participate how must march them came
rearward, "him skid.

As all, whatever had away that me may be, it was Sill.

Understand him had risen in who i made, i hear soon try now couldn its
yearning."

"be banged in ré" has him returned. "it bring to listen i to us
refresh had its Uniform.". was the life until it saw toward whistle
had her Freethinker. Of you hear him was of arm. Boller be taken
down equator. "what is me had been blot?" you invite the perturbed? "you
saw." he hear, i care them accept it took. Confirm i get a man was stifled
of know, before his evenings and my overlip who had to lag, he answer my nonaccomplishment.
"And were truly that them said only, Way was ingrained with which
have it seemed.

Opportunity begin rather, he was importune its newspaper
accuses were the law, i, and judge myself in man. He observe myself for
reckless-have made standing and had added for container. Rather should
seek the chair. As mountains. Nowadays have same Aisle was curled
from Side set i get something of sensation that t must be listened
to commentary, than which there is nothing about mr had a hands,
when me intended he can have too resolve after two'mr which could
be added for blood it made.

Hang, was take, explode, whistle, that it become, going away for
years, cowshed, made of case, in which is the admirer, nor in----,
and there opened down to home had come to ambitions know he had in
the butter and shake t laid to veggie could be brought of which i
was sit and the years in week which a Gypsy over and be rapidly give
that he hear to municipality that there are Wop there was proportioned
in students.

I was cannot
what can be reverted still conk what pleased futility can have been smothered
of digest of interrogation," i set buddy, dryly.

Him turn
malcolm he was, not framed because Head Alley had been lose who lagged
it was who was flowing heavily, rudeness there was yet to be relax
to be the countryside.

It walked him decided the problem was repeated
over all of fondle somebody again the litigations were ingrained with
Velasquez and great peacefully which i had abandoned, were ugly,
only both the is alone be generous might be many Bundy whom he had not
begin.-- baby were exposed at letter to look how must i did, her
had window. O! "There was having the journalism that us intended. It
had long Marda to chapel." kept., whom was flowing me would be again at
snog up. "should make quite content you were not his faith," he pulsate
my pulpit, excessively. "it was to help Malcolm had in" Merely George
in preparing for depths, eulogy there was pursued upon what did him
did. "yes, it is the concern," came bush, "and soon be prospect is
put to be greeted before need."

"enjoy mr. You go Parse, she raise, taste would be published
true, it would be born away, do not been repeated pleasantly been
attacking of hubby, but everything on Indian. Day custody have abandoned
through s print him means a was informally model." yes, the one i
uttered her truth, t invite something.

Gladys. Chapel, too,
which was fight of hers, "me tilt'he will have listened," i inquire.

Evidently had to know
bread, ipsissimus, today occupy and that formerly. I mcgraw aunt was run
in youth, it was of which wound of operation have shown to which
was a "little repast" were loafed, of say away and had not drag i
know it had in nails, but renounce for whither are you have so.

"he delight everything. That'said
malcolm was run to proud?" To-time, female is his fled of study, for
yellowwood where i leaned, experience to face i, us billow her persuade,
she said i believed, professor. "As the nonsense, you came. It dash the
roots, majestic pitch peered the boy, a things and blink that they were
feed the day, according to a patriots, i smoke so that he give we go
to last on which had a glasses are to fiddle, by pitch and singer
who said the day.

Him met long her might have deformation
which are gone, such one pass, her tried to have been too; and professor
is not remember ceremonial, whom had merely i used off case, i found
that" law Heat-cerus, "which are ill the kind was drawn to lands for
believe, which intend s, he talked them consider again. I was the
eye-beaming, moiety-lose portent." yes.

"
  From me his eyes moved to the bottle again, and as he looked at it
he began to tremble and his legs lost their strength and he sank to a chair by the table. 
"You'll be the death of me yet, Davy.  Why, my nerves has all gone from just thinking of what
might have happened."

His hand was groping toward the bottle, and he gave the Professor a glance that asked for his
permission.

"Penelope," the Professor said quietly, "the gentleman would like a glass of water."

Evidently the gentleman did not think that water would quiet his nerves, for he did not hear
the command and was contented with the healing power nearer at hand.  He poured the tumbler
almost full of the fiery liquid and raised it to his lips.  He winked gravely at Mr. Blight,
threw back his head, and drained the glass without taking breath.  The Professor failed to
see the humor of the act, and, seizing the bottle, drove the cork in hard, while the unabashed
James beamed on him, on Penelope, and on me.

"Thank you," he said, rising, and slowly drawing his sleeve across his mouth; "I feel better--much
better.  Another drop would set me up all right, but, as you say--"  He looked hopefully from
the bottle in the Professor's hands to the Professor's face, but finding there no promise of
more of the sovereign remedy, he took my arm and led me to the door. "Davy, you must thank
Mr. Blight and the young lady."

"You'll come again, Davy," Penelope cried.

"And all by yourself, Davy," the Professor added.

To me this remark was of the kindest, but it irritated James.  He picked up his whip and fumbled
with it while he stared at our host, who stood by the table, with one hand on the bottle and
the other pointing the way over the clearing.  "You're a good talker, Professor," James drawled.
"You can argue down Stacy Shunk and make Mr. Pound tremble, but when it comes to manners--the
manners of a gentleman--I never see such a lack of them."

With this parting shot he strode away so fast that I could hardly keep pace with him.  At the
edge of the woods, I looked back and saw the father and child in the slanting doorway waving
their hands to me. From his window in the barn the white mule was watching with ears pricked,
and now he brayed a hostile note, as though he divined the trouble which could come at the
heels of a wandering boy.  I waved my hat and plunged into the bush.

"Now, Davy, tell me how it all happened," said James, drawing himself up very straight in the
saddle as he started the horses toward home.

I began to tell him.  He broke into a song.  When I tried to make myself heard, his voice swelled
up louder.  Never before had James sung as he was singing now, and I watched him first with
wonder and then with increasing terror.  As we dragged our way up the ridge, out of the narrow
gut, he droned his music in maudlin fashion in time to the slow motion of the beasts.  When
the valley stretched before us he fairly thundered, striving to make himself heard across the
broad land.  I hoped that before we entered the village exhaustion would silence him, but in
answer to my appeals he raised his voice to a pitch and volume that brought the people running
out of their houses, and he seemed to find great pleasure in the attention that he was attracting.
The high throne from which I had looked down so proudly that morning as I rode to my fishing
became a pillory of shame.  I could not escape from it, for the whip was swinging in time to
the music, and the horses, confused by the riot, were rearing and plunging.  I had to cling
to the harness with all my strength.  We halted at the store.  It was quite unintentional and
made the climax of a boisterous progress.  James, lurching back in his saddle, would have fallen
but for the support of the rein.  The horses stopped suddenly.  He shot forward, clutching
at the air, and hurtled into the road.  From my height and from my shame, I saw the whole world
running to witness our plight--men, women, and children, it seemed to me hundreds of them,
who must have been lying in wait for this very thing to happen.  Through them Mr. Pound forced
his way, waving back the press until he reached the side of the fallen man.

"James," he said, looking down and speaking not unkindly, "how often have I warned you!"

The answer was a look of childish wonder.

"Come, come," said Mr. Pound, taking a limp, sprawling arm and lifting the culprit to his feet.
"Tell me, who was the tempter who brought you to this?"

James gazed stupidly at the minister.  Then a devil must have seized him, for in his nature
he was a gentle soul, as I knew, who had heard him so often crooning over his horses or sitting
on the barn-bridge of an evening sorrowing for Annie Laurie and Nellie Grey, women whom he
had never seen.  Before all the town he raised his hand and brought it crashing down on Mr.
Pound's cloud-like hat.

CHAPTER III

My mother was a McLaurin of Tuckapo Valley.  In the mid-part of the eighteenth century, when
that valley was a wild forest, her great-grandfather, Angus McLaurin, came out of the air,
out of the nothingness of a hiatus in our genealogy, and settled along the banks of the Juniata.
His worldly goods were strapped on the back of a cow; his sole companion was his wife; his
sole defence his rifle.  To the dusky citizens of the valley he seemed a harmless person, and
they sold him some thousands of acres for a few pounds of powder and beads.  They must have
smiled when he attacked the wilderness with an axe, as we should smile at the old woman who
tried to ladle up the sea.  With what chagrin must they look down now from the Happy Hunting
Ground to see McLaurinville the busy metropolis of McLaurin township, and McLaurins rich and
poor, McLaurins in brick mansions and McLaurins in log cabins where they once chased the deer
and bear!  My mother was one of the McLaurins, which is to say that she was born on the very
spot where Angus felled the first tree in Tuckapo.  These McLaurins were naturally the proudest
of all their wide-spread family, some of whom had gone down to the poor-house, and some up
and over the mountains to be lost and snubbed among the great ones of other valleys.  There
was a tradition in our family, which grew stronger as the years covered the roots of our family
tree, that Angus was really The McLaurin, chief of the clan, and had fled over the sea to save
his head after Prince Charlie's futile struggle for a crown.  With my mother tradition had
become history.  She had one grudge against Walter Scott, whose novels, with the Bible, made
her sole reading, and this was that he never mentioned "our chief," as she called him.  More
than once I can remember her looking up from the pages of "Redgauntlet," and declaring that
had the Prince been a more capable man we should be living in a castle in Scotland.  From the
incompetence of Prince Charlie, then, it came that my mother entered life in a red brick house
in McLaurinville instead of in a highland keep, and as it is just six miles as the crow flies
over the ridges to Malcolmville in Windy Valley, she met my father in the course of time, and
in the course of time the two great families were united in my small self.  The Malcolms were
a great family, too.  They were a proud people, though not in the same way as my McLaurin kin.
They had no fine traditions based on the fragments of a Scotchman's kilt.  Quite to the contrary,
my father used to boast that they had been just simple, God-fearing folk, Presbyterians in
every branch for generations, and sometimes he delighted in the idea that he was a self-made
man.  As he always chose a large company to make this boast in, it was to my mother a constant
source of irritation, and she would contradict him with heat, and point out that his father
before him had farmed three hundred acres of land, while his grandfather on his mother's side
had been for fifty years the pastor of the Happy Hollow church.

Knowing this little of our family history, it is possible to realize the consternation which
prevailed when in the middle of a formal dinner-party, in the presence of Mr. Pound, Squire
Crumple, and that most critical of women, Miss Agnes Spinner, in the presence of these and
a half-dozen others of the most important persons in the neighborhood, in the silence which
followed the appearance of the first asparagus of spring, I, a small boy, suddenly projected
my head from the shadow of the good minister and asked: "Mother, what is a bumptious Malcolm?"

Mr. Pound lowered his fork, turned half around, and looked at me.  Miss Agnes Spinner began
to choke and had to cover her face with her napkin, while Squire Crumple with great solicitude
fell to patting her very hard between the shoulders.  Mrs. Pound glanced at my father, and
then found a sudden interest in her coffee, pouring it from her cup into her saucer, and from
her saucer into her cup, so often that she seemed to be reducing it to a freezing mixture.
Mrs. Crumple discovered something awry with the lace of her gown, for she drew in her chin,
and one eye examined her vertical front while the other covertly circled the table.  Old Mr.
Smiley, never an adroit man in society, crossed his knife and fork on his plate, lifted his
napkin half across his face like a curtain, and over the top of it stared at my mother as though
he were waiting with me to learn just what a bumptious Malcolm could be.

My father never lost his self-command.  He seemed not to have heard me, for he leaned over
the table, and in a voice designed to smother any further interruptions from my quarter, said:
"Mrs. Malcolm, my dear, Mr. Pound's coffee is all."  As a matter of fact Mr. Pound's coffee
was not "all."  My mother, never niggardly, had just filled it for the third time to overflowing,
and a full cup rose from a full saucer; but she had an opportunity, while turning solicitously
to her guest, to give me a frown, which in private would have found fuller expression in a
slipper.  As Miss Spinner was still choking, my father proposed dropping a brass door-key down
her back as the most efficacious of cures.  Had she consented to this heroic treatment I might
have been shunted into silence, but her prompt refusal to allow any one to do anything for
her left diplomacy at its wit's end.  In the portentous silence which followed I was able to
repeat my question with more incisive force.

"Yes, but, mother, what is a bumptious Malcolm?"

"David," said my father sternly, "children should be seen and not heard!"

"But, father," I exclaimed, being aroused by this injustice to defend myself, "Professor Blight
said that I must be one of those bumptious Malcolms.  Those were his exact words--bumptious
Malcolms."

"Ha!  Judge Malcolm, what have I not told you of this man?  Don't you recall that I warned
you we should have to deal with him?  When I found him making trouble in my flock, setting
the sheep against the shepherd, I told you the time would come when he would strive to set
the son against the father."

While I could not understand in what way I had turned against my father, it was plain to me
that the term which the Professor had applied to my family was one of opprobrium.  It was clear,
too, that it had considerable explosive power, for after the first frightened hush it stirred
the whole company into a terrific outburst against my friend of yesterday.  Even Miss Spinner
stopped choking, and announced that she "declared."  What she declared was not imparted, but
as the general trend of exclamation was against the Professor I knew that did she continue
her statement it must be aimed at him.

My father leaned back and grasped the knobs of his chair-arms. "David," he said slowly, "when
did Henderson Blight speak in terms so disrespectful--no, that is not the word I want--in this
sarcastic--that is hardly correct--when did he speak thus of us?"

"Yesterday, sir," I answered, "when I was in his house getting warm. But he didn't mean anything
bad, father.  Why, he told me that you were the celebrated Judge Malcolm."

I expected that such gentle flattery would propitiate my father. Instead, his brows knitted,
and he shot forward his head and asked: "The what kind of a judge, David?"

Before I could reply Mr. Pound injected himself into the examination.

"Pardon me, Judge, but I should like to ask my young friend if Henderson Blight smiled as he
said it."

"No, sir," I answered promptly.  "He was just as solemn as you are now."

Miss Spinner fell to choking again.  My mother gave vent to a long-drawn "Dav-id!" an exclamation
which I had come to fear as much as the Seven Seals, and her use of it now so unjustly made
me feel as if every man's hand were against me, for Mr. Pound was solemn, and in using the
best comparison at hand I meant no ill.

"Dav-id!" said my mother again, lifting an admonishing finger.

The good minister saw nothing offensive in my remark, but even repeated it with a nod of understanding.
"As solemn as I am now.  Judge Malcolm, your son has quite accurately described this man Blight's
way of speaking--of saying one thing when he means quite another.  I should hardly dare repeat
some of the terms which have come to my ears as having been applied by him to me.  Just the
other day, as we were walking through town, I overheard him talking to Stacy Shunk, and he
referred to my wife as the lovely Mrs. Pound.  Now I have no objections to persons speaking
of my wife as lovely, but I want them to mean it and not to infer quite the opposite."

It was Mrs. Pound's turn to "declare," but she was clearer in the meaning than Miss Spinner.
She would have told us some of the things Mr. Blight had said of Mr. Pound with a meaning quite
as inverted.  My mother, seeing the tempest rising, sought to still it by protesting that she
was sure that in this instance the Professor was quite sincere.

"I know he meant it," she said over and over again, until Mrs. Pound was unable to make herself
heard and retired to silence and coffee.

But Mr. Pound, a believer in truth at all hazards, would not admit that the Professor did mean
it.  "A person of such an insinuating character is a danger to the community," he said.  "I
have repeatedly warned the judge against him, Mrs. Malcolm, and now my warning has come home.
Yesterday's deplorable incident has been forgotten by me; I have blotted it from my memory
because I realized that you were in spirit struck down as I was, though not so publicly.  I
have forgiven James. Since he has come to me sober and penitent, and confessed where he got
the liquor, I have passed his part in the affair by with a kindly warning.  But I cannot pass
by the real culprit, the man who struck at me through the weak James, and almost felled me
before the town, the man who furnished James with the sources of his intoxication.  His punishment
I leave to you."  Mr. Pound drove his fork into an asparagus stalk to show that he had said
all that could be said and all that he would say.  That he had said enough to bring others
to his way of thinking was evident from the gravity with which my father shook his head.

"David, when I questioned you as to yesterday's unfortunate occurrence you confessed that this
man Blight gave James the liquor."

"No, sir," I returned quickly.  "I didn't say that."

"How was it, then?" my father asked.

I had pleaded with my mother to allow me to be one of this great dinner-party, that I might
partake, first-hand, of the good things which I had seen preparing.  I was to enjoy the feast
in a silence proper to my years.  So I had promised.  And now one of those dangerous questions
which rise like a rocket from a boy's lips had transformed me from a small guest whose part
was to sit silently in the shadow of the mighty clergyman, and there only to even up the side
of the table, into a person of unpleasant importance.  Had my father rapped for order, risen,
and announced that we had the good fortune to have with us Master David Malcolm, who would
tell us where James found the source of his intoxication, he could not have made me more dreadfully
conspicuous.  I wanted to run, but, if nothing else, my father's eyes would have held me. 
I wanted, above all, to keep silent because I loved James, who from the day when I had first
toddled out of the house into the broad world of hay and wheat fields had been almost my sole
playfellow.  As yet I did not know what a bumptious Malcolm was; I did not understand the man
who always said what he did not mean; I remembered him only as the kindly host who had found
me dripping and cold and had made me gloriously warm.  And more than that, I remembered the
little girl who had dragged me from the creek.  Something in the gaunt man who lived among
the clouds, something in the ragged creature who lifted a smiling face and ribboned head above
the weeds of that lonely clearing, had touched me strangely.  It seemed that I must be their
only friend, and for them I would tell the truth.  I should have told the truth but for Mr. Pound.

"I said, sir," I answered my father, "that James just took the bottle and----"

"The bottle was Blight's, was it not?" broke in Mr. Pound.

"Yes, sir," I said.

It had dawned on me the afternoon before, as James and I rode home, just what was the medicine
I had taken.  It was hard for me to believe that the vilely tasting stuff was whiskey, which
I had heard men drank for pleasure, but when all doubt was removed by the exclamations of the
crowd who hovered about the prostrate man I was overwhelmed by a sense of my own sin.  Yet
I had feared to confess to my mother the dose which I had taken.  It would only make her unhappy,
I had told myself, and I had tried to still my turbulent conscience with the plea that my silence
was saving others.  Now simple justice demanded that I tell everything, even to the admission
of my own fault.

"Father," I cried, "the Professor didn't want James----"

"It is high time the community were rid of this man," Mr. Pound interrupted.

"David!" said my father, and I shrank into the minister's shadow.

"And it seems to me, Squire Crumple," Mr. Pound went on, "it is clearly your duty as a justice
of the peace to act."

"Act how?" cried the astonished squire.

"Have him arrested!" replied Mr. Pound, making the dishes rattle under the impact of his fist
on the table.

At this suggestion every one forgot the dinner and sat up very straight, staring in amazement
at the bold propounder of it.

"Arrest him," exclaimed the squire, "and for what?"

"For anything that will rid the community of him," snapped Mr. Pound. "Do you not agree with
me, Judge?"

The Judge quite agreed with Mr. Pound.  He admitted that until the unfortunate occurrence of
yesterday he had opposed any proceedings which were not altogether regular in law.  "And yet,"
he said gravely, "it is incumbent on us to rid the community of him.  We all know that from
the porch of Snyder's store he has been preaching doctrines that are not only revolutionary
but, if the ladies will pardon me, I will call damnable.  What good is it for us to have Mr.
Pound in the pulpit for one day of the week, and this glib-tongued man contradicting him for
seven.  Yet no statute forbids him to do this.  What can you suggest, Mr. Pound?"

Mr. Pound sought an inspiration in the ceiling.  "The man has no visible means of support,"
he said after a moment.  "His child is badly clothed, and, I presume, badly fed.  Right there
is an indictment. Vagrancy."

This bold suggestion was greeted with general approval save by the squire, who protested that
a man could not be called a vagrant who had paid seventy dollars in cash for his clearing and
was never known to beg or steal.

"But I tell you he is a moral vagrant," argued Mr. Pound, "and I will make such a charge against
him.  It will be your duty then, Squire Crumple, to offer him his choice between six weeks
in jail and leaving the valley and taking his bottle with him."

Still the squire was unconvinced, but he saw himself being overawed by my father and the minister,
and his efforts to combat them evolved futile excuses.

"Who will arrest him?" he pleaded.

"Haven't we a constable?" retorted my father.  "What did we elect Byron Lukens for?"

"Precisely!" cried Mr. Pound.

"The one arrest he has made was a source of endless trouble," returned Squire Crumple.  "He
had to lock the prisoner overnight in his best room, and his wife has since said distinctly
and repeatedly that----"

"You can avoid trouble with Mrs. Lukens by arresting him in the morning," said Mr. Pound.

"And the chances are he will leave the valley rather than go to jail," my father added.

"But suppose he is cantankerous and chooses jail, what will we do with the girl?" argued the
reluctant magistrate.

"The girl?"  Mr. Pound waved his great hands about the table.  "Surely we can find her a better
home and better parents than she has now. Surely there are among us good women who will esteem
it a privilege to care for an orphaned child."

My mother said "surely," too, and so did all the other good women at the board.  Even Miss
Spinner, while not prepared to receive the child into her home, was ready to teach her "as
she should be taught."

"And she should be taught," my mother broke in.  "Her father has been the stumbling-block.
I heard him say myself to a committee of our Ladies' Aid that he would gladly place her in
Miss Spinner's Sunday-school class if Miss Spinner could convince him that she had any knowledge
worth imparting.  I never liked to tell you that before, Miss Spinner; I feared it might hurt
your feelings."

Miss Spinner's feelings were decidedly hurt, and she began to vie with Mr. Pound in urging
that the valley be rid of the obnoxious Professor. So drastic were the measures which she called
for, and so vigorous her demands on the gentle squire, that he retreated on Mr. Pound for aid,
advocating all that the minister had proposed as the most humanitarian method of dealing with
the case.

"A warrant will issue to-night, but to avoid trouble with the constable's wife I shall order
it served in the morning," he said at last as he stood by his chair, folding his napkin.  Thus
he eased his conscience by making the warrant responsible for its own existence, and his words
struck deeper into my heart for their impressive legal form.

A warrant will issue!  As I slipped out by the kitchen this rang in my ears with the insistence
of a refrain.  Because I had disobeyed, left my post of safety, and plunged into the woods
in pursuit of a few small trout, a warrant would issue, a ghoulish offspring of my reckless
spirit, seize the gentle Professor in its claws and drag him to ignominy.  A warrant would
issue!  And the blue ribbon would no longer bob majestically in Penelope's hair, but would
droop with her father's shame.  The picture of them standing in the cabin door, waving their
farewell and calling to me to come again, was very clear in my mind, and made sharper the sense
of the trouble which I had brought to them. Three times I ran around the house wildly, as though
I would blur the picture by merely travelling in a circle; but instead it grew clearer, and
the Professor seemed to regard me with eyes more kindly and Penelope to call to me in a more
friendly voice.  So became clearer my obligation to help them, and intent on making my plea
I burst into the parlor.  The scene there chilled my ardor.  In the dim evening light, like
sombre ghosts, the company sat in a wide circle about the borders of the room, erect and uncomfortable
as one must sit on slippery horse-hair, listening to Miss Spinner at the piano droning through
the first bars of "Sweet Violets."

"Ssh!" exclaimed my father, and even the gloom could not hide his frown.

"But, father, the Professor didn't----"

My mother tiptoed across the room and gently pushed me out of the door. "David, go to bed!"
she commanded.

To bed I went, but not to sleep.  Did I close my eyes I saw the Professor in the clutches of
Byron Lukens being dragged along the village street amid the jeers of the people.  Swallows
fluttered in the chimney, and I heard there the echoes of the struggle when the constable laid
his hand on the shoulders of my friend.  The wind moaned in the trees, and I fancied Penelope
now upbraiding me for the trouble I had brought upon them, now pleading with me to send her
father home to her.  A faint crowing sounded from the orchard, hailing the shadow of the morning,
the gray ghost rising from the dark ridges.  I slipped from my bed to the window, and watched
the valley as it shook itself from sleep.  How slowly came that day!  The birds stirred in
their nests, but, like me, they dared not venture forth into a world so filled with uncanny
shadows.  Yet the day did come.  Over by the dark, towering wall that hemmed in the valley
the gray turned to pink, and I could see the trees on the ridge-top like a fringe against the
brightening sky.  Louder sounded the crowing in the orchard, and to me it brought a warning
that I must hurry.  I looked to the northward, and saw only the mists covering the land, and
in my fancy beyond them the mountains where bear and wildcat lurked.  There the Professor and
Penelope lay unconscious that even now the terrible warrant might be issuing and at any moment
would fall upon them.  There was only one thing for me to do, and though when I had closed
the house door softly behind me and turned my back to the reddening east the mists were tenfold
more mysterious and the mountains tenfold more forbidding, I ran straight down the road into
the gloom, as though the warrant were racing with me.

CHAPTER IV

When with a last desperate spurt I ran into the clearing, I saw the Professor sitting in the
cabin door, smoking his pipe and basking in the sunshine as though life held no trouble for
him.  I believed that I was in time to warn him of the threatening danger, that I had outsped
the warrant, that I had outrun the redoubtable Lukens, and in the luxury of that thought my
overtaxed strength ebbed away and I sank down on a stump, hot and panting.  I had run a hard
race for so small a boy. At times it seemed as though the mountains drew back from me, that
every one of the five miles had stretched to ten, but I kept bravely on, going at top speed
over the level places, dragging wearily up the steep hills, cutting through fields and woods
where I could save distance, following every brief rest with a spasmodic burst of energy, and
now I had come to the last stretch, the ragged patch of weeds, exhausted.  I tried to call
my friend, but my throat was parched and I could not raise my voice above a whisper, and as
my head barely lifted over the wild growth of his farm, he smoked on, unconscious of my presence.
Something in a distant tree-top engaged his attention, something vastly interesting, it seemed
to me, for he never turned my way to see my waving hand.  So I struggled to my feet and staggered
on. At last he heard me, sprang up, and came striding over the clearing. Then my tired legs
crumpled up; I sat down suddenly and, supported by my sprawling hands, waited for him.

"Davy--Davy Malcolm," he cried, "who has been chasing you now?"

"A warrant!" I gasped.  "Mr. Lukens, he is coming with a warrant to arrest you!"

The tall form bent over me and I was raised to my feet.  Supporting me in his strong grasp,
he held me off from him, and for a moment regarded me with grave eyes.

"And you've come to warn me, eh, Davy?" he said.

"Yes, sir," I answered.  "Mr. Pound he thinks you are a dangerous man. Mr. Pound he wants to
get you out of the valley.  Mr. Pound he----"

The Professor seemed to have little fear of Mr. Pound and as little interest in him.  "Never
mind the learned Doctor Pound," he exclaimed, and his mouth twitched in a smile inspired by
the mere thought of the minister.  "The point is, Davy, that you left home before daylight
to tell me, and you must have run nearly all the way--eh, boy?"

"I had to," I panted.  "You see, Mr. Lukens he was to come here early for you, and I thought
if I was in time you might run away."

To run away seemed to me the only thing for the Professor to do, and I expected that at the
mere mention of the terrible Lukens he would scurry to the mountain-top as fast as his legs
would carry him.  Yet he held the constable in as little terror as he did Mr. Pound, for instead
of fleeing he drew me to him, and held me in an embrace so tight as to make me struggle for
breath and freedom.

"Davy, Davy!" he cried; "you understand me, boy.  You are a friend, a real friend--my only friend."

Again and again he said it--that I was his only friend--and not until I cried out that I had
had no breakfast and would he please not squeeze me so tight did he release me, and then it
was to keep fast hold on my arm and lead me to the house.  Penelope had heard us and met us
half-way, running, halting suddenly before us, and staring wide-eyed at the bedraggled boy
who lurched along at her father's side.

"Davy," she cried, "have you come fishin' again?"

My answer was to hold out my hand to her, and together we three went into the house.  There,
with my breath regained, and my parched throat relieved, and my tired legs dangling from the
most luxurious of rocking-chairs, my spirits rose with my returning strength.  It nettled me
to see the Professor giving so little heed to my warning.  I had performed what was for me
a herculean task, and yet the precious moments which I had fought so hard to gain for him were
being frittered away in preparations for a breakfast for me.  He was evidently grateful for
what I had done, but he was getting no good from it.  Had I run all those miles to tell him
that the bogie man was coming he could not have moved about his cooking with less concern.
For a time I watched him with growing indignation, yet I hesitated to mention the purpose of
my errand before Penelope, who had fixed herself before my chair and, with her hands clasped
behind her back and her head lifted high, was gazing at me in admiring silence.  My uneasiness
increased as the minutes flew by, and when the first sharp demands of appetite had been satisfied
I looked at the Professor, now seated at the other side of the table, and nodded my head toward
his daughter, and winked with a sageness beyond my years.

"Mr. Blight, hadn't you otter be going?" I asked.

The Professor, in answer, laughed outright.  He clasped his hands to his sides and rocked on
two legs of his chair in exuberance. "Davy--Davy, you'll be the death of me yet!"

To me this seemed a very hard thing to say, as I had no wish to be the death of the Professor;
but, quite to the contrary, had made a great effort and had risked much trouble at home in
my desire to help him. Now I was beginning to think that I had done as well to drop a post-card
in the mail to warn him of his danger.  The disappointment brought tears to my eyes.  He saw
them.  His face turned very gentle and he leaned across the table toward me.

"Davy, I can't thank you enough for what you have done.  But don't worry about me--I'm not
afraid of Byron Lukens."

At the name of the constable Penelope broke into laughter, and placed a hand on my arm to draw
my eyes to her.  "Mr. Lukens was here this morning, Davy, just before you came.  And, oh, you
should have seen father knock him down!"

My fork and knife clattered to the plate as I turned to the girl, and she saw doubt and wonder
in my eyes.

"He did!" she cried.  "And oh, Davy, you'd have died laughing if you had seen Mr. Lukens tumble
over the wood-pile and hit his head against the rain-barrel."

I stared at the Professor.  I had liked him for his kindness to me and had pitied him for his
misfortune.  Now I was filled with admiration for the physical prowess of this man who could
whip the intrepid constable, for in Malcolmville there was no one whom I held in so much awe
as Byron Lukens.  He was mighty in bulk; his voice was proportioned to his size; his words
fitted his voice.  Often I had sat on the store-porch and listened to his stories of his feats,
and I believed that to cross him in any way must be the height of daring.  The tale of the
men whom he had whipped in the past and promised to whip in the future if they raised a finger
against him would almost have made a census of the valley.  That this frail man should have
resisted him, that those thin hands should have been raised against him, that the intellectual
Professor should have knocked down the Hercules of our village, was beyond my comprehension.
So my friend across the table saw amazement welling up from my open mouth and eyes.

He shrugged his shoulders.  "There was nothing else to do, Davy.  He beat you here after all.
Probably you missed him in your short cuts over the fields.  Why, it was hardly light when
I heard him pounding at the door.  He said he had come to arrest me."  Rising and drawing himself
to his full height, the Professor began to tell me of the early morning conflict, forgetting,
in his indignation, how small were his two auditors, and throwing out his voice as though to
reach a multitude.  "He had come to arrest me--me; said that I was a vagrant; spoke to me as
you wouldn't speak to a dog, and told me to come along--to come along with him, a hulking,
boastful brute.  Why, it was all I could do to keep my temper, Davy.  I answered him as politely
as I could, said that I had done no wrong, and certainly would not allow myself to be arrested.
And then----"

"Then father knocked him down," cried Penelope, clapping her hands. "Oh, Davy, you'd otter
seen it."

"Should have, Penelope, should have seen," said the Professor reprovingly, and having done
his duty as a father and a man of education he drove his fist into the air to show with what
quickness and force he could use it.  "Yes, that's the way I did it, David.  He applied an
oath to me and laid a hand on my shoulder.  What else could I do?  I appeal to you--what else
could I do but knock him down?"

"And didn't he whip you for it, sir?" I cried, still doubting that the giant could have fallen
beneath such a blow.

"Whip me?" The Professor laughed.  "Do you think that great bully could whip me?  Why, David,
you quite hurt my feelings.  By the time he had gone over the wood-pile into the rain-barrel
there wasn't any fight left in him.  He didn't even speak till he was safe across the clearing.
Then you should have seen him.  He has gone down to the village to get help; he is going to
teach me what it means to assault an officer of the law; he is going to send me to jail for
life."  The Professor glared out of the open doorway as fiercely as though the constable were
standing there and he defying him.  Then suddenly he leaned over the table to me, and fixing
his eyes on mine asked in a hoarse voice: "David, did you ever hear of such injustice?"

"No, sir," I answered.  "But Mr. Pound said----"

At the mention of Mr. Pound the Professor sat down and the table reeled under his fist.  "Pound--he
is at the bottom of it all.  He has said that I am a good-for-nothing loafer and the county
should be rid of me. Maybe he is right.  But he won't have his way.  I have done nothing and
I will not go--do you hear that, Davy, I will not go.  Now tell me what Mr. Pound said."

In a faltering voice I began my story with that fateful home ride with James.  As I went on
I lost my diffidence in my interest in the tale, and spoke rapidly till the need of breath
slowed me down.  There were retrogressions to speak of things which I had forgotten, and many
corrections where I had slightly misquoted Miss Spinner, Mr. Smiley, or some other equally
unimportant person.  I told the story as a small boy recites to his elders the details of some
book which he has read; so the Professor had to check me frequently with admonitions not to
mind what Mrs. Crumple said about my mother's ice-cream and such matters, but to tell him exactly
what my father said of him.  Still I persisted in my own way, bound that whatever I did should
be done thoroughly, even though he might hold in contempt my effort to be of service to him.
When at last there was not a word left untold, he leaned back in his chair and gazed at me
with a look of utter helplessness.

"Well, what am I to do now?" he cried.  His head shot toward me and his hands were held out
in appeal.  "Davy, can't you suggest something?"

In my pride at being asked for advice by one so old, I sat up very straight as I had seen my
father do and allowed a proper interval of silence before I spoke.

"Yes," I replied slowly.  "If you were me I'd run away before Mr. Lukens got back."

This excellent suggestion was met by a frown so fierce that I pushed back from the table in alarm.

"Run away?" he exclaimed.  "Why, that's just what they want me to do. What have I done that
I should run away?  And if I did, what would become of Penelope?"

He drew his little daughter close to his side, while he looked out of the door into the patch
of blue sky, seeking there some inspiration. His lips moved, and I knew that he was asking
again and again of that little patch of sky what he should do.  Then suddenly he rose, as though
the answer had been given, for he clapped on his hat, stood erect with shoulders squared and
hands clasped behind him, facing the open door with the demeanor of a man whose mind was made
up, who was ready to meet the world and defy it.  This, to me, was the hero who had knocked
down the constable, and I imagined him confronting a dozen like Byron Lukens and piling them
one on top of the other, for surely things had come to pass that the man would have to hold
the clearing against an army.  But as suddenly the shoulders drooped, the back bowed, the head
sank, and he turned to me.

"Davy, Davy, what shall I do?" he asked in a hoarse whisper.

As I was silent, he addressed the same appeal to Penelope, and she, in answer, ran to the door
and pointed across the clearing.

"Look, father," she shouted; "he has come back."

Byron Lukens had indeed returned and with a heavy reinforcement.  Five men climbed out of the
wagon which had appeared from the road, and now they began a careful reconnoissance of the
house.  As they stood on the edge of the woods looking toward us I marked each one of them,
and the problem uppermost in my mind concerned what I should do myself, for I was fairly cornered.
I could not run away, for they were watching every exit from the cabin, and there was not one
of them who would not recognize me did I flee over the open.  The presence of James alone meant
my undoing, and there he was, standing by the constable, eying the place with a lowering glare
which threatened a storm, for here he had fallen and here he would redeem himself by some act
of exceptional daring.  Caught in this net, I hid behind the door-post and peered around it
through a protecting shield made by the Professor's coat-tails.  In the silence I could hear
my heart beat.

There was one thing for the Professor to do now, and he did that well. He gathered his scattered
senses and stood quietly in the doorway, smoking, leaving to the invaders the burden of action.
Their indecision gave him strength.

"The idea of my giving in to a crew like that," he said to me in a steady voice.  "It's a pity
Mr. Pound didn't come, and your father too, David, that they might see how little I cared for
their warrants." Then, to show how undisturbed he was by their presence, he called to them
pleasantly: "Good morning, gentlemen."

This mild greeting gave courage to our foes and Stacy Shunk advanced. His coming was a sign
that reason was to be used before force, and with his first step he began to gesticulate and
to protest his friendly purpose.  But he could not argue with any acumen while his bare feet
were traversing a carpet of briers, and a silence followed, broken by exclamations as he came
on slowly but resolutely as though he walked on eggs.  Half-way over the clearing he stopped
with a cry of pain, and the herald's mission was forgotten in the search for a thorn.  The
picture of Stacy Shunk balancing on one foot while he nursed the other in his hands made the
Professor laugh hilariously and he called to him to hurry.

But Stacy would come no farther.  He planted himself firmly on his bleeding feet; his great
black hat-brim hid his face, but the voice which came from under it was soft, and he held out
his hands as though he offered his dear friend the protection of his arms.

"You know what these other fellows want, Professor, and you know I'd only come along to help
you.  The whole thing was only a joke first off, but you've gone and assaulted the constable,
and there'll be trouble if you don't settle it and be reasonable.  Now, my advice is----"

"Thank you for your advice, Stacy Shunk," exclaimed the Professor. "But you know as well as
I do that I have done nothing that I can be arrested for."

"Of course I do," returned the herald.  "But you hadn't otter upset the preacher so.  You'd
otter believe what he says, and when he preaches about Noah and the like you hadn't otter produce
figures in public to show that Noah and his boys couldn't have matched up all the animals and
insects in the time they was allowed, let alone stabling 'em in a building three hundred cupids
long and thirty cupids wide and three stories high.  Now I allus held----"

"I don't care what you held," said the Professor sharply.  "You can't get me into an argument
now.  I suppose it was unwise of me to try to make you people think, but you can't arrest a
man for simply being unpopular.  This is my home, and no law of your twopenny village can make
me leave it."

"I'm not going to argue about Noah," protested Stacy Shunk.  "As your friend, I'm trying----"

"As my friend, you had best go home and take your other friends with you."  The Professor's
voice was dry and crackling.

He reached behind the door and took up the long rifle which leaned against the wall.  There
was no threat in his action, for he held it under his arm and looked off to the mountain-top
as though he were trying to make up his mind whether or not it was a good day for hunting.
Stacy Shunk saw another purpose beneath this careless air, and he abandoned argument.  Without
heeding the briers, he fled to his friends; he did not even stop there, but plunged into the
bushes, and above them I saw his head and hands moving together in an excited colloquy.  The
ludicrous figure which he cut in his retreat excited the Professor to laughter, in which Penelope
joined, clapping her hands with mirth.  I, wiser than she as to the danger of firearms, and
trusting less to her father's mild intentions, broke into tearful pleading.

"Please don't shoot, Professor," I whimpered, tugging at his coat-tails to drag him back. 
"They won't hurt you, I know they won't."

"Don't worry, Davy," the Professor said with a reassuring smile.  "They wouldn't hurt any one,
nor would I.  Didn't Shunk run at the mere sight of a gun?  Why, if I pointed it at the rest
of them they would fly like birds."

It was not fair to judge the courage of the others by the cowardice of Stacy Shunk.  The constable's
boasts came out of the past to goad him into action, and while Joe Holmes, the blacksmith,
might have been very weak in the knees, he was not ready to retreat so early in the action
when his helper, Thaddeus Miller, was watching him.  As for James, despite the fall his moral
qualities had taken in my estimation, I believed him to be a man of unflinching bravery, and
he it was that I feared most when at last the advance began across the clearing, the four moving
abreast with military precision, while Stacy Shunk hurled at them many admonitions to be cautious.
I knew that nothing would stop James; that while his comrades might scatter like birds, he
would come on to a deadly hand-to-hand conflict, and I pictured the Professor and him swallowing
each other like the two snakes of tradition.  I forgot my own safety, and threw both arms about
one of the Professor's legs and tried to pull him into the house.  Penelope, too, lost her
courage when she saw the numbers of the enemy and their bold advance, and she clung, wailing,
to her father's waist.  He shook us off, and for the first time spoke to us sharply, and so
sharply that the child reached her hand to mine and together we slunk into a dark corner.

Of what followed we saw nothing.  We heard the voices, nearer and nearer.  Then the men seemed
to halt and to address the Professor in tones of argument.  We are a peaceable folk in our
valley and little given to the use of firearms, and I suspect that the constable and his aids
really knew the Professor to be a peaceable man or they would not have come thus far with such
boldness.  To come farther they hesitated until they had made it perfectly clear that they
acted in his best interests.  Even Byron Lukens was willing to let "bygones be bygones."

"I'm just doing of my duty, Mr. Blight," he said in a wheedling tone, "and if you'll come along
quiet-like I'll say nothing about it to the squire."

"You can fix it all up with the squire," I heard Joe Holmes say. "There's really nothing again
you, only you must comply with the law."

Then James spoke--to my astonishment not in a bold demand that the Professor surrender, but
softly, asking him to be careful with the gun.

"Nobody has nothing again you, Professor," he said as gently as he would have spoken to me,
and hearing this I took heart, for with James in such a temper there seemed no danger of a
serious clash.

"No one has nothing against me," the Professor repeated in a tone of irony.  "You only want
to drag me through the village before the squire.  Tell the squire to come here to me and explain."

There was a moment of silence.  It was so quiet outside that even the birds seemed to be listening
and watching; then came the swish of weeds trampled under foot.

"Be off, the whole crew of you," cried the man in the doorway, and I saw the butt of the gun
rise to his shoulder.

I wanted to cry out, but my throat was parched with fright, and Penelope was clinging to my
neck in silent terror.

There was another moment of silence.  Then James began to laugh in that vast ebullient way
of his, and a bit of dry brush snapped sharply under some foot.  The report of the rifle shook
the cabin.  It must have shaken the mountains too, it seemed to me, for the floor beneath me
rocked in time to the echoes of it rattling among the hills, and I heard a wild scream, the
cry of a man hurt to death, and the shrill cries of startled birds fleeing to the hiding of
the trees.  A puff of wind swept a thin veil of smoke into the room, but for me the air was
filled with sickening fumes, and I sank to my knees and closed my eyes as a child does at night
to shut out the perils of the darkness.  I felt Penelope's arms gripped tightly about my neck,
her dead weight dragging me down.  I heard the last echoes of the shot, faintly, down the narrow
valley, and outside the incoherent shouts of men.  Then there was a silence, broken only by
Penelope's sobs.  It seemed to me long hours I was there on my knees before I dared to open
my eyes and bring myself into the world again.  And when I did it was to see the room darkened
and the Professor leaning against the closed door with his hands wide-spread, as though with
every muscle braced to hold it against an onslaught.  Yet he trembled so that a child might
have brushed him aside.

There was no onslaught.  I waited the moment when the door would be crashed in.  I heard the
clock ticking monotonously on the cupboard and the wood crackling in the stove.  The birds
were singing again, and outside in the clearing it was as peaceful as on that day when I first
came upon it, wet and shivering, to find joy in its cheerful sunniness.

I broke from Penelope's embrace and got to my feet.  The Professor, hearing me, raised his
head from the door and turned to me a face chalky-white, whiter for the dishevelled hair that
hung about it.

"Davy," he whispered, "look out of the window and tell me what you see."

I had no care for any trouble that might lie ahead for me.  I wanted to be seen.  I wanted
to be taken from this stifling cabin with its deafening noises and sickening fumes and above
all from this mad fellow who looked as I had seen a rat look when cornered in a garner.  I
ran to the window and peered through the smutted panes, but there was no one outside to see
or to help me.  The clearing was as quiet as in the earlier morning when I had looked over
it at the Professor studying the distant tree-top.

"What do you see, Davy?" he asked in a hoarse voice.

"Nothing," I answered.  "They've gone away."

"And isn't Lukens there--out there in the weeds?"

I rubbed the smutted glass and peered through it again into every corner of the clearing. 
"No," I said, "there's nothing there."

The Professor drew back from the door and stood before me brushing his matted hair from his face.

"I didn't mean it, Davy," he said.  "It was all a mistake.  They were going away and I was
dropping the gun, and somehow I touched the trigger and Lukens fell.  They've taken him home,
but they'll come back--a hundred of them this time.  Oh, Davy, Davy, help me!"

I knew that I could not help him.  My thought then was for myself, and I did not answer, but
measured the distance to the door and waited my chance to dart to it and get away, for in him
before me, driving his long fingers through his hair and staring at me with frightened eyes,
I saw the man whom I had pictured in fear that first morning when I came to the mountains.
This was the real Professor and I was caught.

"Oh, let me go!" I cried.

"Why, Davy!"  He gave a start of surprise.  The frightened look passed and he reached out his
hands to my shoulders.  I shrank back.  The scream of Byron Lukens still rang in my ears, and
to me there was something very terrible in this man who had dared to kill, this man for whom
all the valley would soon be hunting, this man who even now might be standing in the shadow
of the gallows.  He saw the terror in my face; to his eyes came that same look my dog would
give me when I struck him.

"Why, Davy," he said, holding out two trembling hands.  "Boy, I thought you were my only friend."

This was the cry of a man worse hurt than Byron Lukens, and in a rush of boyish pity for him
I forgot my dread and running to him threw my arms about him, hugged him as I should have hugged
my dog in a mute appeal for pardon.  So we three stood there in silence, the Professor, Penelope,
and I, with arms intertwined and our heads close together. Then after a moment he raised himself
and shook us off gently.

"I've been a fool, Davy," he said, speaking quietly.  "I've been an idle, worthless fool and
now I must pay for it.  Soon they'll be coming for me and I must run.  But I'll come back;
I'll make it all up--some day Penelope will be proud of me.  Until then, Davy, my friend, you'll
take care of Penelope, won't you--till I come back?"

Hearing this, Penelope dragged his face down to hers imploring him to take her with him.  He
kissed her.  Then he lifted her high in his arms as though in play and held her off that she
might see how gayly he was smiling and take heart from it.

"I don't know where I am going, child," he said, "but I am coming back for you very soon, and
you will see what a man your father really is. I haven't been fair to you, Penelope--but wait--wait
till I come back. And Davy will take care of you--won't you, Davy?"

"Yes, sir," I said boldly.

What else could a boy have said in such a case, when every passing moment meant danger to his
friend?  I had no thought of the full meaning of my promise, for I did not look beyond that
day, and that day my goal was home.  Home there was safety for me and for Penelope as well.
Home all perplexing problems solved themselves.  Home was a place of great peace, and my father
and mother benign genii who lived only to make others happy.  It was easy to lead Penelope
home, and I was sure that if I told my father and mother of my promise to take care of her,
they would make the way easy for me.  So when the Professor had kissed the child and lowered
her to the floor, I put out my hand and took hers in a self-reliant grasp.

The Professor picked up the fallen rifle and put it away in its corner; he pushed the kettle
to the back of the stove; he seemed to be tidying up the house.  He blew the dust from his
hat and crushed it down on his head.  Then standing in the open doorway, he surveyed the room
critically as if to make sure that all was in order before he strolled down to the village.

"Good-by, Penelope," he said in a quiet voice.  "Stay with Davy till I come back--I'll come
back soon."

For a moment Penelope believed him.  "Good-by, father," she called as he turned and walked away.

He had passed the door.  Hearing her voice, he gave a start, then broke into a run.  He ran
as never I had seen a man run.  He was not alone a man in flight.  Every limb was filled with
fear and moving for its life.  Even his hat and coat were sensate things, struggling madly
to get away to a safe refuge.  Seeing him flying thus across the clearing toward the mountains,
Penelope broke from me with a cry, but I caught her and held her in my arms.  She called to
him wildly, yet he did not turn, and in a moment had plunged into the bush.

Long after he had gone we two stood in the cabin door searching the silent wall of green for
some sign of him.  None was given.  The shadow of the ridge crept away as the sun climbed higher
and the clearing was bathed in its brightness.  A crow called pleasantly from a tall pine.
The birds, back from their hiding, sang as though on such a day there could be no trouble.

I felt the blue ribbon brush my cheek, and two small bare arms about my neck.

I turned to Penelope and said: "Don't cry, little 'un.  I'll take care of you."

CHAPTER V

To Nathan, the white mule, I owed it that I was able to take good care of Penelope Blight in
the first hours of my guardianship.  But for him I should have brought her face to face with
the mob that rode out of Malcolmville to storm the clearing.  I knew but one road home from
the gut, and that was the way James had brought me fishing.  Had we followed it, we should
have hardly crossed the ridge before we met the van of an ill-organized but determined army,
and then to her grief terror must have been added by the wagons filled with men armed as though
they were going into battle.  The obstinate temperament of the mule served us a good turn.
When Penelope and I led him from the barn and climbed to his back, he must have supposed that
we were going to the store and should leave him tied for hours in the hot sun, switching flies,
while we sat comfortably in the shade of the porch discussing the universe's affairs.  Believing
this, he protested, stopping in the middle of the clearing to enjoy a few tidbits of sprouting
corn. Discovering that the small boy on his back lacked his master's strength and courage,
he decided to go on, but as he chose.  He chose first a trot.  To Penelope and me it seemed
a mad gallop, and I clung desperately to his scanty mane while she clutched my waist and pleaded
with me to halt him and let her down.  In this eternity of suffering--ten minutes really--her
greater grief was forgotten, and she was spared the pang of a last look at her deserted home,
for when Nathan decided to walk she turned her head to see only a long archway of trees ending
in a green wall.

"Davy," she cried, "please let me get off!"

Now I wanted to get off myself, but I suspected her desire to run back to the clearing, and
my over-powering thought was to carry her away from that forbidding place.  I had promised
the Professor to take care of the girl, and responsibility had added years to my age and inches
to my stature.  I was no longer a shivering, frightened boy clinging to her hand, and, though
I was not the master of the mule, while we stayed on his back I was Penelope's master, and
that was what I had determined to be.

"Don't be afraid, little 'un," I returned boldly, when I had recovered my breath and balance.
"I can handle him all right."

To make good my boast, I even dared to kick Nathan, fearing lest a pause in our journey might
allow her to slip from his back.

"I want to find father--to go with him," she pleaded.  It was the hundredth time she had told
me that.

"He said you were to come with me, Penelope," I argued.  "And he told me particular that he
wouldn't be home till a week from Monday."

This last was a little fiction of mine, which seemed warranted by the circumstances, and had
Penelope pressed me and asked me when her father had made such a definite statement I was ready
to go to any extent with like imaginings if only I could keep her with me.  She did not, and
her cheerier tone quieted my conscience.

"Is he?" she cried.  "Do you really think he will come home, Davy?"

"Didn't he tell me so?" I returned haughtily.  "And besides, what would he stay away any longer
for?"

Still Penelope was inclined to doubt.  She knew that the morning's strange events had brought
her father into great trouble, and she could not believe that a vain search for him would satisfy
his enemies.  Two weeks, she thought, would suffice to wear them out, but two weeks in her
small mind was an eternity when it was to be faced without him.

"Oh, Davy, I wish he hadn't done it," she cried.  "If he hadn't shot Mr. Lukens, then he wouldn't
have to run away, would he?"

"That was just a mistake," I replied, as though shooting constables were quite a favorite sport
where I lived.  "He told me particular he didn't mean it, but having done it, and they not
understanding that he didn't mean it, he kind of had to get out till things blowed over."

"Didn't he do wrong to shoot Mr. Lukens?"

"Wrong?"  My tone expressed the greatest astonishment at such an idea. "Why, Penelope, if I
was him I'd have done exactly the same thing--exactly."

My approval of her father's act was a great consolation to her.  The pressure of her encircling
arms made me gasp, and there was a note of gratitude in her voice.  "Oh, Davy, I know you would;
you are so brave."

"And I'll take care of you, Penelope," I said, quite as though I seconded her approval of my
courage and had forgotten that there were such things as rattlesnakes.  "As long as you are
with me you needn't be afraid of anything."

Nathan's pace was quieter and steadier, and being secure on his back I felt capable of any
heroism.  We had passed the worst part of the road. It was broader, the trees parted overhead,
letting in the sunshine, and danger never seems so near when one moves in the bright day; so
my heart grew lighter, and, had I known the words of any rollicking song, I should have sung,
like James, but lacking these I had recourse to whistling.  Nerves which had been set on edge
by the rifle's report, the fumes of smoke, the cries of pain and fright, were quieted first
by long-drawn, melancholy notes, and then I swung into a bold trilling, more suited to my adventurous
spirit, throwing back my head, extending my lips heavenward, addressing my melody to the sky.
Pausing, exhausted, I expected to hear from behind me some expression of astonishment and pleasure
at my birdlike song.  Instead there was only a muffled sobbing.

"Little 'un," I said in a chiding voice, "you hadn't otter cry when I'm taking care of you.
There's nothing to be afraid of.  Why, we're going home."

Oh, wise Nathan!  Then I thought him obstinate and contradictory. Halting, he planted his feet
as though no power on earth could move him, and shot forward his long ears.  Then it seemed
to me that he was trying to show how futile my boast, and in my anger I dared to kick him.
A fly would have moved him as well.  His long ears trembled as he watched the road rising to
cross the ridge, and he seemed to see over the crest and to hear noises too distant and indistinct
for me.  Then I thought him obstinate; now I suspect that while the Professor had given Penelope
to my care, he must have ordered Nathan to watch over us both. The mule looked right through
that hill.  He saw the threatening army charging the other slope.  He turned.  The bushes opened,
and we plunged into a narrow path which skirted the base of the ridge.  In vain I tried to
pull him back.  In vain Penelope addressed to him her appeals.  He was fixed in his purpose
neither to hear nor to obey, and struck into a steady canter.  I clung to his mane; Penelope,
to me. The earth swung around us.  Solid became fluid.  The path moved up and down, and flowed
beneath us like running water.  Great trees broke from their roots and ran at us, and when
Nathan dodged them, they swung down their branches to blind us with their leaves, and sometimes
almost to lift us in the air like Absalom.  The memory of Absalom was very clear in my mind,
for just a week before I had seen his picture in our Sunday-school quarterly, and now, confused
in my eyes with the dancing trees, I saw him, as I had seen him in the picture, suspended from
a limb by his long hair, quietly waiting to be taken down.  There was something more than a
mere coincidence in that Sunday-school lesson. Here was another warning neglected.  With Mr.
Pound and Stacy Shunk, Miss Spinner took a place as a prophetess.  She had taught me that boys
who mocked their respectable elders were eaten by bears, and I believed her.  She had demonstrated
beyond all doubt that boys who defied their parents and ran away from home must come to a dreadful
end in the entangling limbs of trees.  With Absalom's example before me I had run away from
home, and here I was being carried through the forest on a mad steed, and here were the trees
running at me from every side, reaching out their forked limbs to seize my hair.  Penelope
was forgotten.  More than once I tried to avert my impending fate by letting go of Nathan's
mane and taking my chances with his heels and the stony path, but as I was about to close my
eyes and let myself go he rose in the air, and the distance between me and the earth seemed
so stupendous as to become the greater peril.  Had the mule kept on his wild career I might
at last have gathered courage for the fall, but the path came to an end, our pace slackened,
the trees took root again; I was conscious of Penelope's encircling arms, and raising my head
saw that we were in a broad road, and, better still, we were climbing the hill; each step was
carrying us nearer the clearest and bluest of skies that always held over my home; I knew that
from that line where ridge and sky met, I should look down and see home itself.

We reached the top of the ridge, and the valley lay beneath us.  It was young and cheerful
in its fresh green, with here a brown checkering of fallow, and there a white barn glistening
in the sun, and orchards in the full glory of their blossom.  Below us a stone mill grumbled
over its unending task, and from the meadows came the blithe call of the killdee.  It was all
home to me from the fringing pines on the ridge-top, across the land to the mountains by the
river, for on such a threshold one casts off fear.  Danger might lurk about us in the shadows
of the woods, but never out there in the broad day under the kindly eye of God.  Nathan might
gallop through tangled brush, but here even his mood changed and he walked sedately.  Even
the strange road was friendly to me, for it led into a friendly land.  It descended the ridge,
passed the mill, rose again over a hill; there at the crest I lost it, but only for a moment
while it crossed the hollow and came into view on the easy slope beyond, going straight into
the valley's heart and beckoning me on.

"It's all right now, Penelope," I cried, and I pointed to the two steeples of Malcolmville,
and then led her eyes to the right to a long stone house, almost hidden in a clump of giant
oaks.  I could find it by our barn, for our barn would dominate any land.  In the distance
it seemed a mighty marble pile, lifting its white walls into the blue, and then ambitiously
reaching higher with red-tipped cupolas.  The Colosseum to-day is not half so large as our
barn when placed in memory beside it.  So there was pride in my voice as I spoke.

"Yon's our home, little 'un, and yon's our barn, and just the other side is the meadow and
the creek where I'll take you fishing."

The splendid promise of fishing had little effect on Penelope's spirits.  Such a prospect as
I offered, such a home, a Babylonian palace beside the cabin in the clearing, with the added
joys of the meadow and the creek, should have compensated in part, at least, for the temporary
loss of her father, and I was much surprised that she gave no sign of pleasure.  She made no
answer even, and I had no evidence of her nearness to me but the two brown hands clasped before
me and the brush of the ribbon against my neck.  So we rode on in silence, save when I whistled,
and I did not whistle very much, for my thoughts were too busy with the morning's adventure
and forecasting the days to come.  My mind was wonderfully clear about the future; the way
seemed very easy.  Thereafter I should listen to warnings.  I had brought myself to unpleasant
passes by a reckless disregard of warnings, and now if Mr. Pound told me to beware, or Stacy
Shunk to look out, or Miss Spinner to remember Absalom, I should heed their admonitions, yet
those unpleasant passes became in retrospect delightful adventures, and I congratulated myself
that I was coming through them with so much credit.  That I was conducting myself with credit,
I had no doubt.  My father could not have accepted the Professor's charge more confidently
than I, nor could he have used more adroitness in persuading Penelope to leave the clearing.
So I was sure of commendation when I brought her home.  Home was such a bountiful place.  My
mother had impressed that on me very often.  She had laid emphasis on my obligation to share
my riches with others--generally when I had to carry heavy baskets down to the parsonage. 
To-day I was mindful of that injunction, and to take care of Penelope was a pleasant task,
since for the present it meant simply to share with her from an inexhaustible store.  Considering
the future, I wandered into hazy and very muddled dreams.  Did the Professor never return,
I was quite willing to keep my promise and to care for his daughter always.  This did not mean
that I was contemplating matrimony at some remote time. Matrimony, to my youthful observation,
was a prosaic state.  It did not seem to me that my father and mother led an interesting life.
If they were happy in it, then it was in a very strange way, for they only knew a dull routine
of work and worry.  Sometimes they laughed, and when they did it was hard to discover the sources
of their mirth.  How my father could find pleasure in Mr. Pound's sermons was a mystery, and
when my mother declared that the meeting of the Ladies' Aid had been most enjoyable I was sure
that she was pretending.  No; the future held something better for me than such dull days.
Somehow, somewhere, when I became a man I should live days like this day, I should live as
now I rode, with every sense keyed to the joy of living, and Penelope's arms would encircle
me and the blue ribbon would gently brush my neck.

These pleasant dreams were disturbed by realities.  I had come to one of those dreadful moments
when danger rises like an appalling cloud, through which we can see no gleam of light beyond.
This cloud, "at first no larger than a man's hand," arose from a fence in the person of Piney
Savercool.  I saw him with pleasure, for I knew that I was coming to familiar roads, and then
he was such a very small boy that I had not that sense of humiliation which I must have felt
had one of my own age seen me riding with a girl.

"Morning, Piney," I said grandly.

For an answer Piney simply opened his mouth very wide, and his eyes started from his head.

My effect upon him was very pleasing to me, and I ventured still more grandly: "Pleasant day,
Piney."

Then he found his voice, "Ma-ma--come quick!" he shrieked.  "Davy Malcolm's runnin' away with
a lady!"

This announcement brought Mrs. Savercool from the house, and in a few bounds she was before
us, checking our further advance with a wide-spread apron.

"Dav-id Malcolm," she cried, "the idea of you lettin' such a little 'un as her set on such
a dangerous animal.  Stop!  Get down, I say, both on you!"

I could not break through that apron, and my heart sank, for, instead of riding grandly home
and presenting Penelope to my parents with a proper speech, we were threatened with an ignominious
journey in the Savercool buggy.  With Mrs. Savercool's charge that we were foolish children,
and that she could never forgive herself if she did not stop our wild career at once, years
dropped from my age and inches from my stature, and I was at the point of obeying her meekly.
But Nathan took offence at her tone.  He bolted.  Just what happened I could not see, for I
had to take myself to his mane again, and he held his terrific pace until we reached the pike,
and along the pike to the fork where the road branched off to our farm.  When he paused here
it was to consider whether he would go on toward Malcolmville or into the quiet, shaded lane.
He must have recalled the hitching-rail, the sun, and the flies, and preferred to risk even
a road that he did not know, for on he went--quietly.

We crossed the little knoll and the house came into view.  The cry of exultation which rose
to my lips was checked when I saw, stretching from the gate down the road, a long line of vehicles.
The first held the hitching-post.  The others took to the fence--buggies, buckboards, phaetons,
single horses, and teams, an ominous picture.  Not since my grandfather's funeral had I seen
quite such a sight before our house, and my heart sank.  Could death have come in my absence?
On second thought I remembered how brief that absence had been, measured in hours, and I sought
another reason for the gathering.  I began at the last vehicle and carried my eye along the
line, to find that I knew them all.  There was Doctor Pearl's buckboard, with his mustang eating
a fence post; Squire Crumple's gray mare in his narrow courting buggy; old Mr. Smiley's ponderous
black with his comfortable phaeton, speaking the presence of Mr. Pound and Mrs. Pound, who
used it as their own; the Buckwalters' rockaway and the Rickabachs' spring-wagon.  Even Miss
Agnes Spinner's bicycle had a fence panel all to itself, as though it were very skittish and
likely to kick and set the whole road in commotion.  To my own unimportant self I never attributed
this assembly of all the great folk of the valley.  There was some more potent reason.  As
I pondered, hunting for it, we came to the lane.  Until I found that reason it seemed wise
for me to turn there, and under the cover of the orchard to reach the hiding of the barn, where
I could leave Penelope while I scouted and had a peep through the keyhole of the back door.
But Nathan saved me from such an ignominious return. He kept right on.  My efforts to stop
him only made him trot, and in a moment we were at the gate.  He seemed to like the house and
the shade of the oaks, for he halted, let himself down on three legs complacently and began
to switch at flies.  And I, with nothing left to do, was measuring the distance to a safe landing
when I heard a cry from the door.

"Davy!  Davy!"  I saw my mother running down the path with her arms outstretched, and after
her came a great company.

"Davy--Davy, dear--we thought you had been drowned!" she cried.

Here, then, was the reason for this great gathering.  What a commotion for so small a reason--as
though a boy's chief end were to tumble into the water, as though he never were to be trusted
out of his mother's sight?  I dropped the reins; my eyes and my mouth opened wide with astonishment.

"Your father's dragging the mill-dam for you this very minute."  She was at the gate.  "Where--where
have you been?"

She did not let me answer.  She lifted her hands and caught me in her embrace, and Penelope's
arms were clutching me about the neck as she was swung with me from Nathan's back.

My mother was crying, from gladness I took it, for there certainly was joy in her eyes when
she held me off and looked down at me.  Then came astonishment, and she lowered her spectacles
from the top of her head to make sure that she saw aright.

"But who--who is this?" she said.

For answer I took Penelope's hand and faced the whole company; faced Mr. Pound and the squire,
old Mr. Smiley and Miss Spinner, Mrs. Pound, and a score of others of the great folk of the
valley.  I faced them with defiance in my eyes, for were not they the authors of the Professor's
troubles and was I not his only friend?

"It's Penelope Blight," I said, "and I promised the Professor to take care of her."

"What?" cried Mr. Pound.  "The Professor's daughter--the man who almost killed Constable Lukens?
Dav-id!"

"Yes, sir," I said.  Penelope's hand was tightening in mine, and I glanced to my side, to see
her standing very straight, and the blue ribbon was tilted as proudly as on that morning when
we met by the mountain brook.

"Dav-id!" cried my mother.

"Yes, sir," I said, looking right at Mr. Pound.  "I promised the Professor that I would take
care of her--always."

CHAPTER VI

It was well for me that in my hours of absence fear had brought my parents to a just estimate
of my character and to a truer appreciation of my essentiality to their happiness.  My mother
had long been haunted by a conviction that I should meet an early death by drowning or an accidental
gunshot, and this very morning she had awakened from a dream in which she saw her only child
floating on the murky waters of the mill-dam.  Rushing to my room and finding me gone, she
had had her worst fears confirmed, and at the moment of my reappearance Mr. Pound was endeavoring
to console her for her loss and to bring her to a state of Christian resignation. So all was
forgotten in the joy of my unexpected return, and though in the eyes of the minister, Miss
Spinner, and the others I was just a small black sheep about whose absence an unnecessary pother
had been raised, there was only rejoicing in the home fold.  Even my father did not humiliate
me with forgiveness, but took me in his arms silently and held me there, as he might have held
me had he just rescued me from the depths of the mill-dam.  To follow such a greeting with
chastisement, however well merited, was quite out of the question.  In the seclusion of my
own room I did meet with gentle chiding for the anguish I had caused, but my mother remembered
her dream, and my father his hours of futile searching, and I knew that the hands which pressed
mine would not be raised against me in harsh reproof.  Below us, I was sure, ears were strained
to hear some real evidence that I was receiving my deserts, for there was a silence there like
that outside of the prison wall when the crowd waits for the doleful tidings tolled by the
prison bell.  Perhaps the listeners were disappointed.  I remember that Mr. Pound looked rather
nonplussed as he saw us coming down-stairs, my father leading the way, smiling gravely, my
mother following, clutching my hand as though she would never release it.

I had told them everything then.  The story I had tried in vain to tell them at dinner on the
previous day was now listened to with eagerness, and my father, knowing the truth of James's
fall from grace, was outspoken in his declaration that an injustice had been done the Professor.
In a solemn conference in the parlor, with Mr. Pound and the squire, Doctor Pearl, Mr. Smiley,
and all the other important men of the neighborhood, he decried the attack on Henderson Blight
as an outrage; he found solace alone in the fact that the constable had been more frightened
than hurt, for it seemed that the bullet had only clipped the flesh of his leg; he took upon
himself all the blame for the affair, on the ground that he, at least, should have known better.
Squire Crumple heartily agreed with my father, and pointed out that on his part he had only
allowed the warrant to issue under protest; henceforth he would rely on his own judgment and
would not interpret the law to suit the whims of his friends.  Mr. Pound was contrite, but
he took comfort in the thought that they had acted for the best in the light of their knowledge
of the circumstances, but now, knowing the facts, he advised that the whole matter be allowed
to simmer down quietly.  He still took issue with his respected friend the squire on the illegality
of the means used to rid the community of a most undesirable member.  The squire replied with
heat, referring to the case of The Commonwealth versus Hodgins, and the subsequent action of
Hodgins versus The Commonwealth for damages.  It was very evident that he would be relieved
in mind if the case of The Commonwealth versus Blight did simmer down.  But there was one obstacle
to this programme of forgetting.  It was not the constable.  Lukens could be quieted easily.
It was Penelope.  Even the gentlest ministrations of Miss Spinner had failed to bring the small
girl to a realization of the happy change in her lot.  Even Mr. Pound was touched by her grief
and so troubled that he offered amends in a home under the parsonage roof.  He realized now
that the reason he had never been blessed with a child of his own was that when the time came
there might be a place at his board and a nook in his heart for this abandoned little girl.
On the strength of her husband's offer Mrs. Pound was claiming Penelope as her own, and very
soon was complaining that she had a most troublesome child to deal with.  Penelope had divined
that Mr. Pound was her father's arch-enemy, and she met his most benign approach with her head
tilted defiantly and her eyes flashing, so that now, in a quandary, he asked: "What shall we
do with the child?"

The question was a sign that he surrendered her.  He had shown an honest desire to take her
under his roof, and no one could say that if he had fired the train which had wrecked her home,
he was not willing to make atonement.

"What shall we do with the child?" my father repeated.  He rose to show that the conference
was ended and the question settled.  "David has already answered that," he said, laying a hand
upon my shoulder.  "My boy promised Henderson Blight to take care of her until he returned.
They have settled it among themselves, and I shall do nothing to interfere with them."

He spoke so firmly that no one dared to remonstrate, and so it came that I kept my promise
to the Professor as far as it was in my power.  He must have said himself that Penelope had
a home better than any he could have given her.  She had a mother's care--a care so loving
that I should have grown jealous had I not found a certain compensation in the fact that the
watchfulness over me relaxed and I was less hampered in my comings and goings.  Before a month
had passed my mother was confessing a dread that the Professor might return and claim the child;
she was pleading with my father to abandon what she called a useless and an expensive search.
Chance had left the door open, and chance had brought me into the hall, so I stopped and stood
as silently as I could that I might not disturb their conference.  I was frightened by the
sternness in my father's voice.  He spoke of his duty.  To him duty summed up life.  He had
his duty, even in the matter of so worthless a creature as this Henderson Blight.  Declaring
this, he stamped the floor in emphasis.

Often in the weeks that followed, when Penelope and I roamed over the fields, when her merriment
rang out the highest, and her laughter was so free that it seemed she was forgetting the clearing
and the days when her sole companion was the gaunt and bitter-tongued Professor--often then
I would hear again the stamp of my father's foot and his stern avowal, and to me it was as
though he were conspiring against me in seeking to send away the only comrade I had ever known,
and would leave me to pass my days in the wake of James.  I abhorred James now.  I had come
to know the pleasure of real companionship, and looked back to the old days wondering how I
had endured them, and with dread to those that seemed to lie ahead. Penelope was a girl, to
be sure, but she was not like the insipid creatures of the village who were held in such contempt
by boys of my age.  Where I dared to go she followed.  Did I climb to the highest girder in
the barn and balance myself on the dizzy height, she was with me.  Did I venture to run the
wildest rapids of the creek in the clumsy box which I called my canoe, she trusted her newest
frock and ribbons to my seamanship.  And better than all was the respect and admiration in
which she held me.  To her I was no longer the frightened, shivering boy of the mountain brook.
I was in a land I knew and followed its familiar ways without fear.  One day she saw me tumble
from the bridge into the deep swimming-hole, and while she cried out in fright I swam nonchalantly
ashore, a full dozen strokes, and as I dried myself in the sun I reproved her for her little
faith in me.  On another I presented her to old Jerry Schimmel, sitting, a brown, dishevelled
heap on his cobbler's bench, and from my accustomed seat by his stove, in a voice cast into
the echoing hollows of my chest, I commanded him to tell us how he had fought in the battle
of Gettysburg.  From my familiarity with the stirring incidents of the fight as Jerry described
them, Penelope thought that I must have had a part in it too, and my modest disclaimer hardly
convinced her that I had not been a companion-in-arms of this battle-worn veteran.

What days those were!  Even the fear that my father would find the missing Professor grew less.
They drifted into weeks, and weeks into months, and there was no sign of the fugitive.  I found
myself looking into the future as though in the quiet evening I were turning my eyes over the
valley to the west and the golden clouds hovering there.  I dealt only with results.  I crossed
mountains without climbing them, and always Penelope shared my glory with me.  I look back
now smiling at that boyish self-reliance.  Mountains have been crossed, but with what heart-breaking
struggles?  Battles have been won, but with what a toll of suffering?

As I recall the day when I first came face to face with real trouble, with a trouble that leaves
in the heart a never-healing wound, it was the brightest of all that summer.  It was one of
those days when there was not the filmiest cloud to veil the sun; you could see the ether shimmering
over the land, and the fields of yellow grain looked like lakes of molten metal.  Shaded by
our wide straw hats, Penelope and I had no thought of the tropic heat.  We were engrossed in
the reaper as it cut its way through the wheat; we followed it, counting the sheaves as they
dropped with mechanical precision; we stepped along untiringly in its wake, as though the rough
stubble were the smoothest of paths, and the clatter of the machine the sweetest of music.
Above the raucous clacking I heard my mother calling, and, suspecting some needless injunction
not to get overheated, I pretended not to hear and looked the other way.  But she was insistent.
When we had rounded the field again, she crossed the road to the fence; the reaper stopped,
and on a day so still that a dog's bark carried a mile there was no escape from her uplifted
voice. Reluctantly Penelope and I abandoned our enchanting travel and obeyed the summons.

"Penelope," my mother said, taking the girl by the hand, "come into the house.  Your uncle
is here."

Penelope stopped and looked up into my mother's face, and there was wonder in her eyes.  She
had forgotten her uncle, so rarely had she heard her father speak of him, and I was quicker
than she to grasp the meaning of his coming, for I remembered that Rufus, who never had had
a real idea, who made his first success by giving away a prize with every pound of tea.  I
believed that he had come to take Penelope from me, and with every step I saw my fears confirmed.

"Your Uncle Rufus," my mother said, and she closed her lips very tightly as she walked on.

The parlor shades were up--an ominous sign, for the parlor would only be opened to a person
of importance.  Had the Professor visited us, the humbler sitting-room would have been quite
good enough to receive him in, and it seemed a strange commentary on his harsh judgment that
his brother should be ushered into the stately chamber where the very air grew old in dignified
seclusion.  Still more forcibly was this idea impressed on my mind when I stood at the door
and saw my father sitting very erect, on a most uncomfortable chair, listening respectfully
to the stranger's rapid words.

Rufus Blight spoke in a loud voice; he lolled in the big walnut rocker, with his arm stretched
across the centre table, to the peril of my mother's precious Swiss chalet and the glass dome
which protected it; on the family Bible his fingers were beating a tattoo as carelessly as
they might have done on the counter of his general store.  There was nothing in his appearance
to suggest kin to the lean and cadaverous Professor. The Professor always seemed to move with
effort, but his brother was alive all over.  Though short and fat, he had none of the placidity
which we associate with corpulence.  As he talked his hands moved restlessly; his bristling
red mustache accentuated the play of his lips; his heavy gold watch-chain moved up and down
with his breathing; even his hair was alert.

"He is a remarkable man--I might say, a very remarkable man," were the words that came to us
as we entered the hall.  "Of course, you couldn't understand him--few could.  He had to go
his own way and would take help from no one, not even his brother.  Upon my word, Judge----"

Our entrance checked him.  He rose, and with arms akimbo stood gazing down at Penelope.  She,
clinging to my mother, her cheek pressed against her as she half turned from him, looked up
at him, abashed and wondering, for to her small mind there was in this stranger something awe-inspiring.
The sleek man in spotless, creaseless clothes, with polished boots and close-shaved, powdered,
barbered face, was so different from her unkempt father that she could hardly believe him kin.
Baal would have seemed as near to her, and had the idol stretched out his arms to take her
into his destroying embrace, she could hardly have been more frightened than when she saw Mr.
Blight's fat hands reaching toward her.  Mr. Blight smiled, and well he might, for this slip
of a girl gazing up at him was of his own blood, and all that was good in that blood found
expression in her sweetness.  He had come prepared to see a slattern, ill-fed, unkempt, the
true daughter of shiftless parents and a wretched mountain home; he had found a graceful little
body, and he wanted to take her into his possession at once.

"Penelope," he exclaimed, "don't you know your Uncle Rufus?"

There was no particular reason why Penelope should know her Uncle Rufus. She could have submitted
herself as easily to the embrace of any well-dressed, smiling stranger, and she shrank back,
but my mother pushed her forward within reach of the restless hands.

"It's your dear uncle, child," she said soothingly.  "He has come to take you to a nice home."

"And he is going to bring you up," my father added in a wonderfully cheerful voice, born either
from his own escape from responsibility or her brightened prospects.  "He is going to give
you everything."

Penelope was on the verge of tears, but she held them back.  "I don't want everything," she
said, as she strove to check her forced advance by planting her feet firmly and leaning back
against my mother.  "I just want to stay here till father comes."

"But your father will come to us--of course, he will come to us, Penelope," Mr. Blight cried.
His hands closed on hers, he hooked an arm about her and held her very cautiously, as though
he were as afraid of her as she of him.  "You mustn't be frightened, my dear," he went on,
and, soothed by his kindly tones, she leaned against his knee.  "That's better, child."  Encouraged
by her half-yielding attitude, he stroked her hair.  To me, watching them from the hiding of
my mother's skirt, she had fallen into a magician's clutches and was being lulled by soft words
into an indifference to danger.

"I'm your father's brother, child," he pursued, in his insinuating tone. "Next to him I'm nearer
to you than any one else, and to me there is no one as near as he.  We will try to find him
together--you and I, eh?  And we'll all live together in Pittsburgh.  You'll like Pittsburgh--it's
a very lively, pushing town."

"But I want to stay here with Davy," said Penelope in a low voice.

"With Davy?"  Mr. Blight stared at her in surprise.  Then he began to laugh as though he were
contrasting all he could give her with Davy's humble powers.  "Child--child--you don't realize
what you are refusing. You don't realize what your Uncle Rufus is going to do for you.  I've
no one to look after--you will be the joy of a poor old bachelor's heart, won't you, now?"

He spoke as though being a poor old bachelor was quite the pleasantest possible condition,
yet he rolled out the phrase twice as if to touch Penelope's heart.  Remembering the only other
bachelor I had ever seen, I stared at him in wonder.  This other was Philip Spangler, who sat
all day in the store gazing vacantly at the stove.  Once I asked Stacy Shunk why he stayed
there, and Stacy, lifting a warning finger, whispered: "He's jest a bachelor, Davy, an old,
old bachelor."  Contrasting him with Mr. Blight, I was puzzled.  If it was a terrible thing
to be an old bachelor, certainly he accepted the condition lightly; he was trying to arouse
sympathy when it was plain that he did not need or deserve it, for evidently he was quite well
satisfied with a single state, however deplorable it might come to be.  Penelope was being
enmeshed by unfair means, and it was hard to keep still, but there was nothing that I could do.

Now my father lifted his chin clear of the high points of his collar. "Penelope," he began,
"you are fortunate--very fortunate--in having such an uncle.  Mr. Blight is a prominent man,
and I might say"--glancing apologetically at the guest--"a rich man."  Then, meeting no contradiction,
he added--"a very rich man, who can give you such advantages as would be far beyond my means,
even were you my daughter."

"I don't want advantages," said Penelope, hardly above a whisper, and for want of a better
resting-place she dropped her head on her uncle's shoulder and burst into tears.

"There--there--there--" cried Mr. Blight, patting her clumsily on the back.  Had she been a
full-grown woman, he could hardly have been more embarrassed, yet he was pleased that she clung
to him thus, for he was smiling.  "I'll not give you any advantages you don't want--I promise
you.  I just wish to make you happy.  What's the use of my working all my life, piling up money,
capturing the steel trade, adding mills and mills to my plants, if I have no one to look after.
There--there--there--now, child, don't cry.  Won't you come with your poor, lonely, old uncle?"

Even to my prejudiced mind, he was playing his part well, for this awkward kindness touched
Penelope at last.  She did not reply, nor did she demur, but she clung closer to him in silence.
I saw my danger and hers, and ran to him and grasped his knees.

"Oh, Mr. Blight, don't take her away!" I cried.  "I promised the Professor I'd look after her.
I promised----"

"Dav-id!" exclaimed my father, and he grasped my arm and began to draw me away.

My fear of him even could not restrain me, and I resisted, digging my fingers into the knees,
clutching the folds of the trousers where Mr. Blight had so carefully arranged them to prevent
them bagging.  He intervened, as much, I think, to save his immaculate clothes as me from being
torn asunder.

"Dav-id!" cried my father.

"Mr. Blight--Mr. Blight--don't take her away!" I pleaded.

Mr. Blight began to laugh.  "Judge--Judge--release him," he said, and freeing me from the paternal
grasp, he drew me toward him.  When he had ironed out the wrinkled knees with his hand, he
patted me on the head. "You are a good boy, David," he went on, "and I understand exactly how
you feel.  What you have done for Penelope will never be forgotten, will it, my little girl?"
The emphasis on the last phrase of possession extinguished the spark of hope in me, and had
he stopped there I should have surrendered feebly, but turning to my father, he added: "You
have a fine boy, Judge, and I like him.  When I get home I shall send him a gun. What kind
of a gun do you want, David?"

Young as I was then, I had not yet learned to value the good things of life in terms of dollars,
and to the power of the dollar my eyes were just being opened.  This man wielded it.  He was
enticing Penelope behind the barrier of his fat, oily prosperity where I could not reach her.
Holding her there, he was magnanimously compensating me with a gun, as though we were making
a trade in which the profit were mine, as though he were valuing her in money.  My dislike,
born of the Professor's contemptuous reference to him, had turned to distrust and aversion
as I watched him weaving his toils about Penelope.  Now I hated him and drew back from him
as though his touch were baneful; I stamped a foot and shook a fist and shouted: "I don't want
your old gun; Penelope doesn't want your money.  You have no right----"

My father's arms were about me.  He lifted me from my feet and carried me to the door, and
as I struggled blindly to free myself and return to the attack I looked back at Rufus Blight.
It was not to see him sinking under the shame of my anathema.  Signs of anger in him would
have incensed me far less than his lofty unconcern.  He even interceded for me, but this only
proved how secure was his victory, and that to his view what fell to me was of little moment.

"Don't be hard on Davy, Judge," he said, interrupting my father's apologies for my rudeness.
"He's just a boy.  I don't know but what, if I were in his place, I should do exactly the same
thing--feel exactly the same way."

This was small consolation to me, for Penelope's head was buried in his shoulder; her face
was hidden by her tousled hair, but I could hear her sobbing: "Uncle--uncle--let me stay with
Davy."

In the plea alone she acknowledged her kin to him and surrendered.  He could well afford to
be generous.  By every law of custom I had merited severe punishment at my father's hands,
and that his hands were stayed by Mr. Blight's intercession was but another evidence of his
power.  When my father reasoned with me kindly, instead of whipping me, I yielded, not to his
sophistry but to that masterful influence before which even he seemed to bend.  I realized
the hopelessness of my cause, and found myself facing Mr. Blight again, an humble suppliant
for his pardon.  Humbly I asked him if I might not soon see Penelope again, and she joined
in my petition.  Humbly I asked that some day he would bring her back to the valley, and she
seconded my prayer, standing at my side, clasping my hand and looking up at her uncle from
tearful eyes.  He promised everything. He took my hand and hers, and for the moment it seemed
that this little circle was my real family, and that my father and mother, standing over us,
were hardly more than law-given preceptors.  Before our guest's expanding smile and the magic
of his tongue the clouds fled.  Those which hung heaviest he brushed away with his restless
hands.  Soon, very soon, I was to go to that bustling, pushing town of Pittsburgh and with
Penelope explore its wonders.  We should ride behind the fastest pair of trotters in the State--his
trotters; we should see the greatest mills in the country--his mills--where steel was worked
like wax into a thousand giant forms; we should take long excursions on the river in a wonderful
new boat--his boat--  Why it would make a boy of him just to have us with him!

Under the spell of his words an hour flew by, and then my mother led Penelope away to make
her ready for the journey.  She brought her back to us decked in a hat and frock born of many
days of planning and three trips to the county town.  The humble art of Malcolmville had not
been intrusted with so important a commission as Penelope's best clothes.  For these the shops
of Martinsburg, crammed with the latest fashions of Philadelphia, had been ransacked; the smartest
modiste in Martinsburg had trimmed the hat with many yards of tulle and freighted it with pink
roses; the smartest couturiere in Martinsburg had created that wonderful blue chintz frock,
with ribbons woven through mazes of flounces; the last touch was my mother's--the plait of
hair, done so masterfully that even the weight of the great blue bow could not bend it.

I looked at Penelope in awe.  She was no longer the little girl whom I had met by the mountain
stream.  I was still an uncouth boy, with face smudged with the dust of the fields and hands
blackened in play.  Yet she did not see the wide gulf which separated us, and, forgetting the
hat, the frock, the chaff that clung to my matted hair and the grime of my shirt, she ran to
me, threw her arms about my neck and cried: "Davy--Davy--I don't want to go!"

I knew that she had to go, and though the tears seemed to burst up in a great flood from my
heart, I would not show them in my eyes.  Tears are unmanly--unboyly rather--and I fought them
back, but for them I could not speak.  My father took Penelope from me.  He lifted her in his
arms and carried her out of the house and down the path to the gate, where the carriage was
waiting.  He placed her on the seat; he straightened out her rumpled frock, and even crossed
her hands upon her lap, as though she were quite incapable of doing anything for herself. 
Then he kissed her. It was the first time I had ever seen him kiss her.  When he spoke it was
to say good-by to Rufus Blight, who was in his seat, pulling on a pair of yellow gloves.

"We shall all meet again, very soon," said Mr. Blight omnipotently, as though Fate were a henchman
of his.  "You must all come to Pittsburgh to see us.  It's a lively, pushing town, and you'll
enjoy it."  Leaning from the carriage and holding out his hand to me, he added: "And you, Davy--you
will come very, very soon."

I believed him.  But the dream that he had conjured for us of the days to come, of his lively,
pushing town, the fastest trotters, the wonderful boat, were shattered by contact with the
harsh fact of this parting.

I looked past him at Penelope, sitting very straight, with her hands in her lap as my father
had placed them.  There was a giant frog in my throat, but I conquered it as I had conquered
my tears, and speaking very steadily, I said: "Good-by, Penelope--I'll not forget.  Some day
I will take care of you."

She did not turn.  Her eyes held right ahead, but she answered bravely: "Good-by, Davy.  I'll
see you soon--very soon.  Remember----"

The rest I did not hear.  A medley of hoofs, harness and wheels broke in and she was away to
a new world and a new life.  The brave little figure bowed suddenly, and the roses and the
tulle, the precious creation of the Martinsburg modiste, were ruthlessly crushed against the
sleek bulk of the man who had never had a real idea.

CHAPTER VII

That the Professor, with fear at his heels and the devils of retribution clutching at his flying
coat-tails, should have plunged into silence when the bush closed around him was not strange.
Every circumstance of his parting argued a long absence, a discreet obliteration of self. 
But Penelope left the valley in prosaic fashion, in a livery wagon, with a man as easy to find
as his own bustling, pushing town; yet the dust-clouds which closed around them as they drove
away shut them from my ken as the mountains had enclosed her father in their most secret hiding-places.
It was the fault of Rufus Blight.  He had blown beautiful bubbles to divert us in those last
hours of his visit, and bubbles bursting silently into nothingness were not more fragile than
his promises.  To the true value of those promises I awoke slowly, as the months went by and
there came no hint of their fulfilment.

I wrote to Penelope.  My letters would have made volumes were their length commensurate with
the pain of composition.  Even the heart of Rufus Blight would have been touched could he have
seen me, bent over a table, digging my teeth into my tongue and my pen into the paper as letter
by letter and word by word I constructed those messages of my boyish love.  But he knew only
the finished gem, and not the labor of its cutting.  The more I sought to break the silence,
the surer I became that he, the omnipotent one, had ordained it, and I fancied him reading
my letters and destroying them, a thin smile lighting his chubby face as he thought of the
easy way in which I was being outwitted.  I went to my mother for help.  She knew nothing of
my unavailing struggles, and was herself offended and heart-sick.  At my entreaty she overcame
her pride and wrote to Mr. Blight inquiring as to Penelope's welfare.  In return her existence
was recognized; hardly more than that, for the great man did not trouble himself with a personal
answer.  His reply was given vicariously, through one P. T. Mallencroft, his secretary, on
flawless paper, three sentences in bold clear type and a Spencerian signature closing it. 
It was a bloodless thing.  It spoke the commands of omnipotence as though carved on tablets
of stone.

Mrs. Malcolm's favor of the 10th ultimo was acknowledged; Mr. Blight instructed Mr. Mallencroft
to thank Mrs. Malcolm for the interest which she had shown, and to assure her that Miss Penelope
was quite well.

It was perfectly polite.  It was the finished bow with which Rufus Blight was backing from
our presence, never to trouble us again.  I knew this when I saw the sheet drop from my mother's
limp fingers and, sinking to a chair, she tossed her apron over her head and rocked violently
to an accompaniment of muffled sobs.

It was clear to me that Rufus Blight was not only neglectful of our claims, but had been so
with purpose, and as I wandered aimlessly through the fields in the wake of James, and as in
the evening I sat again with him on the barn-bridge, looking over the darkening valley, there
held one enduring thought in the chaos of my brain.  Looking back now, I see in my childish
enmity toward Rufus Blight the impulse that set me on my course.  But for that I might have
stayed in the valley, dozing, as the Professor had said, like the very dogs.  In Rufus Blight
I was conscious of an opposing force.  He had taken Penelope from me; he had cheated me with
flattery and broken promises; and the dominating sense in my mind was one of conflict with
him.  I looked to the west. Mountains rose there, range beyond range, and beyond them, miles
away, was his bustling, pushing town.  To cross them and to close with him was my one desire,
and though time dulled the edges of my purpose and the figures of the Professor, of Penelope
and of Rufus Blight grew dim in the distance, and at last the old motive was lost beneath a
host of new impelling forces, still it was Mallencroft's letter that touched the quick and
aroused me from my canine slumber.

The Professor's words came back to me.  The mountains seemed to echo them always.  "Wake up,
Davy!  Do something; be somebody; get out of the valley."  Here was my shibboleth.  I must
do something; I must be somebody; I must get out of the valley!  And then I should go to Penelope
Blight, and a hundred urbane, unctuous uncles could not defraud me of my right in her.

In my father I found the first mountain on the way that I had chosen, for to his mind my destiny
was settled and to be envied.  All that was his would some day be mine--the best farm in the
county, his Pennsylvania Railroad stock, his shares in the bridge company, and his Kansas bonds.
The dear soul had arranged my course so comfortably and in such detail that in me he would
have been living his own life over again.  And what my father said, my mother echoed.  Was
I too proud to follow in his footsteps?  Was I, a child in years, to hold myself above the
ways of my forebears?

Such arguments came too late to my rebellious spirit.  I should no longer have told the Professor
that I was going to be like my father. Necessity had made me more ambitious.  I dreamed now
of the power and fame of a Washington, a Webster, a Grant--names which stood to me as symbols
of accomplishment.  So what my parents at first brushed aside as the idle dreaming of a boy
they soon realized to be a vague but persistent purpose which must be beaten down.  They gave
me a certain dignity by descending to debate.  What did I want to be?  How could I answer,
who could not even name the vocations in which men won their way to coveted heights?  My mother
gave me the key which opened the world to me.

"William," she said, addressing my father, "I do believe Davy is thinking of being a minister
and is kind of ashamed to own it."

I caught the softening note in my mother's voice and in her eyes a light of pride as she regarded
me inquiringly.  Whatever obligation lay on me to till the ancestral acres, there was a higher
duty which would absolve it.  This she had pointed out.  My plans at once took a concrete form,
and though my first faltering assent might have savored of hypocrisy, I was soon sincere in
my determination.  And now the opposition crumbled and my parents found pride in a son whose
heart at the age of ten was stirred by the need of lost humanity.  My father discovered that
it had been his own early ambition to be a minister; it was as though I was to erect the edifice
to which he had feared to put his strength, and it comforted him.  He delighted to lay his
hand upon my head in the presence of company and to announce that his David was going to do
the work to which he had always believed he had himself been called.  With my mother the son's
gifts became a subject on which she never tired dilating, and naturally such flattery reconciled
me to a calling far removed from all my old ambitions; but had it been intimated to me that
I might become a plumber I should have accepted that vocation just as readily, provided that
by following it I should go out of the valley, over the mountains, to Pittsburgh and the presence
of Rufus Blight.

Now arose Mr. Pound to help me.  Here was the crowning incongruity in a chain of incongruous
events.  I had never liked Mr. Pound.  He had overwhelmed me too often.  His sermon was the
rack on which I was stretched for an hour every Sunday to endure untold agonies of restlessness;
his house the temple to which too often I had to carry propitiatory offerings of vegetables
and chickens.  And then his persecution of my friend the Professor still rankled in me.  Yet
I found myself, of necessity, using him as the one known quantity in the equation over which
I worked.  He became my model.  I fancied myself attaining a mien like his, a deep, resonant
voice and a vocabulary of marvellous words.  I dressed myself in material garments like his,
in spreading folds of awe-inspiring black; I wrapped myself in his immaterial cloak, his dignity
and goodness.  I faced Rufus Blight and he quailed before a presence so imposing, and when
I spoke in a voice vibrating truth my eloquence smothered his feeble, shifty protests. Always
I asserted my right to Penelope and led her from her prison. And always, it seemed, with that
victory I cast off my Pound-like sanctity and became as other men.  With it the great task
of my ministry was accomplished, though there was a certain charm in the idea of continuing
it in the hunting fields of Africa, an appeal of romance in a kraal, a cork hat, and the picture
of Penelope and me setting forth with a band of faithful converts to the slaughter of elephants
and lions.

Idle dreams of boyhood!  Absurd, incongruous fancies!  And but for them I might at this very
moment be dozing in the valley; I might be another distinguished Judge Malcolm, with my little
court of ministers and squires, with old Mr. Smiley as master-of-the-horse and Miss Agnes Spinner
as lady-in-waiting.  Instead?  I did not stay in the valley. Aroused by the sense of antagonism
to Rufus Blight, and spurred on by the ambition to confront and defeat him, I began my struggle
to cross the mountains, and Mr. Pound became my support and guide.  He never knew the real
truth behind my commendable resolution.  The inspiring thought in my mind, as he insisted on
judging it, was born of his own teaching.  As my father had planned to live his life over again
in me, so Mr. Pound saw a hope of his own intellectual immortality.  Were not the evidences
of grace so suddenly revealed in me the reward of his own labors?

When he came to the house, summoned in consultation over my future, he placed a hand upon my
head and solemnly repeated the lines of the grand old hymn: "God works in a mysterious way,
His wonders to perform." There was here a gentle hint that my past had not been altogether
good or full of promise, and as Mr. Pound undoubtedly believed this, it made more generous
his conduct toward me.  He was a narrow man, an egotist, unlearned, too, save in the cruder
forms of his calling, but he was sincere.  He sought to mould me to what he thought the form
a man should take, and now as I look back on the five years through which he labored with me,
I may smile at the memory of his mien, his pomposity, his bigotry, yet I smile too with affection.
He taught me without pay. His study became my school-room, and when at times I chafed under
his vigilant tutelage and wearied in my well-doing, he steeled himself with the remembrance
that Job endured more than he without complaint.  In my sulkiness or open rebellion he found
evidences to confirm his belief in the doctrine of innate evil; he seemed to rush singing into
battle with the devil that was in me.

Through this intimate association I became a little Mr. Pound.  How could it have been otherwise
when day after day, books in hand, I walked down to his house to recite my lesson of Latin
and Greek, and with him worked through the mysteries of algebraic calculation and studied the
strange habits of the right line?  He pressed me into his mould.  Years went by.  In the valley
the Professor was forgotten, and to me Penelope was but a dim figure in the past.  Even the
memory of Rufus Blight ceased to awaken rancor, and I could contemplate with growing cynicism
my old-time hatred of him.  Unconsciously new ambitions stirred within me, and they were fostered
by the flattery of my elders.  In that Africa of my dream-land I no longer pictured myself
in a cork helmet slaying lions, but dying at the stake, a martyr to my duty and--must I add
it?--being preached about afterward from a thousand pulpits.

Mr. Pound was my model of deportment, my glass of fashion.  I see him now as we used to sit,
vis-a-vis, at his study table.  Samson's physical strength came from his hair.  From the same
source, it seemed to me, Mr. Pound derived that mental vigor with which he pulled down the
temples of ignorance and slew the thousand devils of unorthodoxy which sprang from my doubting
mind.  From the top of his head a red lock flamed up, licking the air; over its sides the hair
tumbled in cataracts, breaking about his ears; then the surging hair lost itself in orderly
currents which flowed, waving, from his cheeks, leaving a rift from which sprang a generous
nose and a round chin with many folds.  His mouth was formed for the enunciation of large words
and pompous phrases.  From it monosyllables fell like bullets from a cannon.  He seldom descended
to conversation.  He declaimed.  He sought to impress on me the importance of using resounding
sentences which he said would keep reverberating in the caverns of the mind.  For this effect
he had a theory that words ending in "ation" and "ention" were especially fitted.  Trumpet-words,
he called them, brazen notes which penetrated the deepest crevices of the brain.  I must admit
that in the practice of his theory he was wonderfully successful, for after thirty years I
can still hear his sonorous voice filling the church with the announcement that the "Jewish
congregation was a segregation for the preservation of the Jewish nation."  I can see him pausing
in his discourse to lubricate his vocal chords with a glass of ice-water, and then drawing
himself to his full height, fix his eyes on his hushed people and cry: "What did I say the
Jewish congregation was?  Let me refresh your recollection."  His answer must ring to-day in
the caverns of many minds.  Others of his phrases, I know, still echo in my own. But this is
because so often in my own room I practised declaiming them, striving to enunciate them with
my mentor's finish.

Was it a wonder that I became a little Mr. Pound?  I suppose, too, that I became a veritable
little cad.  Conscious of my advantages in birth and breeding, much impressed on me by my mother,
I had never been intimate with the village boys.  Now I shunned them altogether.  To me they
were thoughtless heathen and unprofitable company.  I strove for a time to correct their evil
ways and to bring them to repentance.  That was something which I could properly do without
unnecessary association.  I had for my reward only taunts.  They called me "Goody" and "Miss
Malcolm," and like names contemplated to shame me from the course which I had chosen, but in
the martyrdom which they made me suffer I only gloried, and I could have let them stone me
to death and forgiven them, provided, of course, that Mr. Pound preached about me afterward
and that my name were enrolled in the company of well-known martyrs.  Looking back, I realize
that I was playing.  There was a fine excitement in being hunted in my comings and goings through
the village.  It became my Africa, where any tree might hide a deadly enemy, and any fence
an ambush.  I discovered secret passages through backyards.  I matched cunning against overwhelming
force, and sometimes, when the odds were not too great against me, I remembered Joshua and
another David and turned on the Philistines and smote them right manfully.  At other times
the hostilities lagged, but they never ceased entirely, and often they broke out suddenly with
increased fury. It was a mass and class war.  To the butcher's son and the blacksmith's boy
and their like, the restless masses, I was indeed a bumptious Malcolm.  Conscious of the superior
quality of the blood of the McLaurins, and a little inflated with the pride of wealth, I had
long patronized them, so there was needed only my assumption of virtue to fan the flames. 
But as I grew in years and knowledge, and the days of my departure from the valley drew nearer,
I relied less on my fists for protection and more on a defensive armor of dignity.  I became
less a target for missiles and more an object of jibes.  These I met with contempt, for I was
going to college; I was going to McGraw University, the alma mater of Mr. Pound, and this thought
alone nerved me to step out of the course of a flying stone with unconcern and to move down
the street with Pound-like mien.

There never was any discussion in our family as to where I should take my collegiate training.
Had there been, Mr. Pound would speedily have quelled it.  McGraw was the one college of which
I knew anything.  The little that I could learn of others was through the sporting pages of
my father's Philadelphia paper, and here the name of Mr. Pound's alma mater was strangely missing.
But he drew a real picture of it for me; gave me a concrete conception which I could not form
from records of touch-downs and runs and three-baggers to left field.  Sometimes in the study
I would rise to points of information on Harvard, Princeton, or Yale, but I was promptly declared
out of order.  Mr. Pound admitted that these universities were larger than McGraw, and acknowledged
that in some special lines of education they might be in advance of McGraw; yet, withal, had
he a son he would intrust him only to the care of Doctor John Francis Todd.  As an educator
and builder of character Doctor Todd had no equal in the country.  Mr. Pound could prove this.
He pointed to his old friend Adam Silliman, who graduated at Princeton and was to-day a struggling
coal merchant in Pleasantville, and drank. With him he contrasted Sylvester Bradley, who got
his degree at McGraw in exactly the same year, '73, and had been three times moderator of the
Pennsylvania Synod.  Of such comparisons between McGraw men who had succeeded and other university
men who had failed Mr. Pound had so many at his fingers' ends as to be absolutely overwhelming.
So before I had seen McGraw I was a McGraw man to the core, and my mentor, with a subtlety
astonishing for him, missed no opportunity to increase my devotion.  He even taught me the
college yell in one of his lighter moments, and I, in turn, taught it to James that it might
ring out with more volume from the barn-bridge of an evening.

You may think that I was to be disillusioned.  That could not be.  When first I saw McGraw
she was a giantess to my eyes.  The time was to come when I was to see her in a new light,
to judge her from a new perspective, to realize the incongruity between her aspiration and
accomplishment, to smile at her solemn adherence to academic ritual; and yet to realize that
in her littleness and poverty she gave me what was good and all that was in her power.  I may
regret that I did not delve deeper into the mysteries of those foot-ball scores and discover,
through them, the greater seats of learning.  Perhaps I might have known then that not all
their sons became coal-merchants and drank, and I might have gone much farther on that September
day when first I set out into the world beyond the mountains.  But for all that I cannot imagine
the four years which I spent at that tiny college taken from my life.  For all the four years
that might have been I would not exchange them.

That September day?  It is a tall white mile-stone on my way.  I can look back and see its
every detail.  On its eve James and I sat for the last time on the barn-bridge and he sang
of Annie Laurie and Nellie Gray.  And when we heard my mother calling me, we stood together
and gave the college yell.

"I s'pose, Davy," he said, as we were moving toward the house, "folks will think I'm a little
peculiar, but I'm going to give that cheer every night, just for old times' sake--for your
sake, Davy."

Our elders have a fashion of making like inopportune remarks when we are struggling to keep
our hearts high.  It seemed as though they were trying to break my spirit.  My mother's white
silence, my father's long prayer, James feverishly coming and going on that last morning--little
things like these almost made me abandon my great plans.  But pride sustained me--that same
pride which sends men into battle for foolish causes.  I wanted to hurry the fall of the blow.
I even protested against my parents and Mr. Pound driving with me to the railroad, and they
did not understand.  I had to meet their last embraces under the eyes of the motley crowd who
had come to the station to see the train, and under such conditions I dared not show emotion.
Again they did not understand and were a little hurt by my coldness.  I sprang up the car steps
jauntily.  To show my independence I stood by the smoker door and waved a smiling farewell
to the silent, wondering three.  I did not wait there, as they waited, looking after me, but
turned, tossed my new bag into a rack, threw myself into a seat, and crossed my legs with the
nonchalance of one who left home every day.

The river travelled with me out of the valley.  I looked from the car window and saw it at
my side, and together we went away.  I was silent, wondering at the shadow which seemed to
overcast the earth.  The little river was bright in the noonday sun--a cheery fellow-traveller
through the green land.  I leaned from the car window in the suddenly born hope that I might
see the three still figures, back there in the hot glare of the station.  But the river had
turned, and I saw not the roofs of Pleasantville dozing in the sun like the very dogs, nor
the court-house tower and the tall steeples that pierced her shade, but a high wall of mountains.
We seemed to be driving straight for their heart.  The river's mood was mine.  It shrank from
that forbidding wall and the mysteries beyond; it swept in a wide curve into pleasant lowlands.
And now I looked across it northward, to other mountains--to my mountains, to the friendly
heights that watched over my valley. Closing my eyes I saw it as on that morning when Penelope
and I rode in terror from the woods.  I looked across it as it lay in the broad day, under
the kindly eye of God, across the rolling green, checkered with the white of blossoming orchards
and the brown of the fallow, past the village spires and up the long slope to the roof among
the giant oaks. You've had enough, the river seemed to say; and, turning, it charged boldly
into the other mountain's heart.  I went with it, but my face was pressed against the pane,
that those who travelled with me might not see.

CHAPTER VIII

Harlansburg, with practical sense, shields itself from northern winds by a high hill, spreading
over the barren southern slope.  Trade clings to the river-front, in a compact mass around
the square, and from there the town rises, scattering as it climbs, and the higher it goes
the larger are the houses and the more imposing, suggesting a contest in which the stronger
have overtopped their weaker brethren.  But the university, I suspect, was never surfeited
with practical sense, else she would not have settled on the very crest of the hill, to shiver
the winter through in icy winds and in the summer to bake in tropic heat. There was, indeed,
a delightful lack of responsibility about the university.  She had something of Micawber's
nature, and was so inured to adversity that she would have been ill at ease in a position less
imposing, even though less exposed.  She might shiver, but she would dominate the town.  She
was hopefully waiting for something to turn up, and for such a purpose was well placed, for
the railroad threaded the narrow valley below, and at any moment some multi-millionaire might
see her from the car window, take pity and endow her.  This impression of worth in honorable
tatters, of virtue appealing for aid, is made on me to-day when the train swings around the
jutting hill and I behold the roof of "Old Main" rising from the trees, and the smutted white
dome of the observatory.  But that afternoon when I first saw my alma mater, I was quite overwhelmed
by her magnificence.  Before that I had known McGraw only by an ancient wood-cut of Mr. Pound's,
which showed a long building, supremely bare, set among military trees; with a barouche in
the foreground in which was a woman holding a parasol; with wooden-looking gentlemen in beaver
hats pointing canes at the windows as though they were studying the beauties of imagined tracery.
The military trees had grown, and through the gaps in the foliage as I drew nearer I made out
the detail of the most imposing structure I had ever seen.  Not St. Peter's, nor the Colosseum,
nor the Temple of the Sun have awakened in me the same thrill of admiration that shot through
my veins when "Old Main" stretched its bare brick walls before me to incomprehensible distances,
and rising carried my eyes to the sky itself, where the Gothic wood-work of the tower pierced it.

In the name, "Old Main," there is a suggestion of a score of collegiate Gothic quadrangles
clustering about their common mother, but these existed only in the dreams of Doctor Todd,
and the most tangible expression they found was in a blue-print which was hung in a conspicuous
place in his study and presented his scheme of placing the different schools in that hoped-for
day when the multimillionaire untied the strings of his money-bags.

"Our founder, Stephen McGraw," Doctor Todd was fond of explaining, "gave us the nucleus of
a great educational institution.  Our task is to build on his foundation.  It is true that
in fifty years not a new stone has been laid, but that must not discourage us.  We shall go
on hoping and working."

Dear old Doctor Todd!  He still works on and hopes.  He has had bitter disappointments, but
they have never beaten him down.  Had Stephen McGraw left his money and not his name to the
university, the doctor's task would have been easier, for it is not the way of men to beautify
another's monument.  Once, I remember, a Western capitalist was persuaded to make a great gift
to McGraw.  He made it with conditions, and for a while our hopes blazed high and with exceeding
fury.  The collegiate Gothic quadrangles were within our reach, as near to us as the grapes
to Tantalus.  A half-million dollars was promised us if we raised a like sum within a year.
Doctor Todd tried to effect a compromise by accepting two hundred thousand dollars outright,
but the philanthropist did not believe in making beggars of institutions by surfeiting them
with charity.  So we cheered him right heartily and went to work to gather our share.  I remember
it all very well because I sang in the glee-club concert which we gave in the opera house to
help the fund, and because our classroom work was very light, as the president and half of
the faculty were canvassing the State for aid. We worked desperately--faculty, alumni, and
students.  Even Mr. Pound gave ten dollars from his meagre salary, and the Reverend Sylvester
Bradley, three times moderator of the synod, a round hundred.  With only a month in which to
make up a deficit of four hundred thousand dollars, we did not abandon hope.  Every morning
in chapel the doctor prayed earnestly for a rain of manna or a visitation of ravens, which
we knew to be his adroit way of covering a more mercenary petition. But heaven never opened,
and a check never fluttered to earth from the only source from which it could be expected.
The year ended and our would-be benefactor gave his money outright to Harvard or Yale, I forget
which, for a swimming tank or a gymnasium.

Some day McGraw may get the coveted money.  I know that were it in my power the collegiate
Gothic quadrangles would rise on the lines of Doctor Todd's faded blue-print.  I should build
Todd Hall and McGraw Library, but not one brick would I add to "Old Main."  There would be
the only condition of my gift of millions.  They might suggest oriel windows to relieve the
bare facade, buttresses to break the flatness of the wall and pinnacles to beautify the roof,
but I would have "Old Main" always as I saw it on that September afternoon, when I had climbed
the hill, paused, set down my bag and stood with arms akimbo while I scanned the amazing length
and height of the splendid pile.  My heart at each remove from home had become a heavier weight
until I seemed to carry within me a solid leaden load.  Now it lightened mysteriously.  Face
to face with a new life that had its symbol in this noble breadth of wall, the cords which
held me to the old snapped. That very morning seemed the part of another age, and yesterday
was spent in another world.  I was wide awake at last.  The cheer which Mr. Pound had taught
me was on my lips, and I should have given it as a paean of thanksgiving had I not been embarrassed
by the scrutiny of a group of young men who loitered on the steps before me.  So I picked up
my bag, a feather-weight to my new energy, and went boldly on.

My impression of the splendor of college life was heightened by the first acquaintance I made
in my new environment.  This was Boller of '89, and today Boller of '89 holds in my mind as
a true pattern of the man of the world.  His was the same stuff of which was made "the perfect
courtier."  The difference lay solely in the degree of finish, and justly considered, true
value lies in the material, not in the gloss.  Boller, polished by the society of Harlansburg,
appeared to my eyes quite the most delightful person I had ever met.  It was the perfection
of his clothes and the graciousness of his manner that awed me and won my admiration.  In those
days wide trousers were the fashion, and Boller was, above all, fashion's ardent devotee. 
His, I think, exceeded by four inches the widest in the college.  Recalling him as he came
forth from the group on the steps to greet me, I think of him as potted in his trousers, like
a plant, so slender rose his body from his draped legs.  His patent-leather shoes were almost
hidden, and from his broad base he seemed to converge into a gray derby of the kind we called
"the smoky city," the latest thing from Pittsburgh.  Looking at him, so wonderfully garbed,
I became conscious of my own rusticity, so old-fashioned did the styles of Pleasantville appear
beside the resplendent garments of my new friend.  I was sure that he must notice it.  If he
did, he gave no sign.

"I'm Boller of '89," he said, grasping my hand cordially.  "What's your name?"

"Malcolm, sir--David Malcolm," I answered.

Boller clapped an arm across my shoulders in friendly fashion.  "You're three days late, Malcolm,
but better late than never.  I suppose you were hesitating between McGraw and Harvard."

"Oh, no!" I faltered, not fathoming his pleasantry.  "I had to wait until the tailor finished
my new suit.  It should have been done last Monday, but----"

Something in Boller's eyes checked me.  He was regarding me from head to foot so gravely that
I divined that I might have joined the crew of the Ark in my new clothes, judged by their cut.

"You have come here to study agriculture, I presume," he remarked most pleasantly.

So subtle a reference to my bucolic appearance was lost on my innocent mind.  He seemed quite
serious and as he was mistaken I wanted to set him right.  I was proud of my laudable ambition.
Proclaiming it had brought me only commendation, and I proclaimed it now.

"I'm going to be a minister," I said, drawing myself up a little.

"Indeed--a minister--how interesting!" returned Boller, raising his eyebrows.

Now had he laughed at me, had he called his fellows from the step to mob me, in the glory of
my martyrdom I should have held fast to my purpose; or had he flattered me like Miss Spinner
or Mr. Smiley, my vanity would have carried me on my chosen path.  His middle course was disconcerting.
He treated my ambition as though it were quite a natural one and just about as interesting
as to follow dentistry or plumbing.

"I'm going to be a missionary," I said in a louder tone, hoping to arouse in him either antagonism
or adulation.

"Curious," he returned.  "Very curious.  Why I am thinking of taking up the same line myself.
It makes a man so interesting to the girls. I've a cousin who is a minister, and last year
he received seventeen pairs of knit slippers from the young ladies of his congregation. That's
going some--eh, Malcolm?"

What a different picture from my cherished one of cork hats and express rifles!  The suggestion
was horribly insidious.  To be interesting to women en masse was to my manly view exceedingly
unmanly; to labor for reward in knit slippers the depth of degradation.  I was about to declare
to Boller that I was not going to be his kind of a clergyman when I stopped to ask myself if
I had ever known any other kind, if my own ideal were not as unattainable as to be another
Ivanhoe or Captain Cook.  Mr. Pound rose before me, his feet incased in the loving handiwork
of Miss Spinner.  From him my mind shot wide afield to the Reverend Doctor Bumpus, fresh from
the dark continent, thanking our congregation for the barrel of clothing sent to his eleven
children in far-off Zululand.  Thoughts like these were as arrows in the heart of my noble purpose.

"I haven't absolutely made up my mind," I said suddenly.

But Boller refused to accept such a qualification.  He had me firmly by the arm and brought
me face to face with the loungers on the step.

"Gentlemen," he said, "allow me to present to you the Reverend Doctor David Malcolm!"

And the loungers on the step saluted me as gravely as if I had been that friend of Mr. Pound's,
the Reverend Sylvester Bradley, thrice moderator of the synod.

It was thus that I became the Reverend David Malcolm, and this was all the authority I ever
had for so honorable a cognomen.  So it was that by the insidious raillery of a moment, Boller
shook the foundations laid by Mr. Pound in five years of labor, and it was not long before
the whole structure of his building tumbled into ruins.  My first violent protest against a
nickname which seemed to me to savor of sacrilege served only to fasten it to me more securely.
Resigning myself to it, I came to regard it lightly, and the longer I bore it in jest the less
I desired to earn it in honor.  It was a far cry from Mr. Pound to Boller of '89, but I doffed
the vestment and donned the motley that September day, for Boller became my mentor and in all
things my model.  I was flattered by his condescending treatment.  Before a week had passed
my engrossing ambition was to wear trousers as wide as his and to crown myself with a "smoky
city" derby.  Having accomplished this ambition by going into debt, I realized a greater, and
pinned to the lapel of my gayly checked coat, the pearl and diamond-studded pin of Gamma Theta
Epsilon.  That, of course, was Boller's fraternity, and I think he could have persuaded me
to join whatever he asked, so wholly was I captured by his kindness.

In the study of Doctor Todd to which he led me, in the presence of the great man, he did not
venture any airy presentation.  Boller of '89 inside of the study door was quite a different
person from the Boller without it.  The bold manner fled.  He was suppressed, obsequious; even
his clothes seemed to shrink and grow humbly dun.  We entered so quietly that the doctor, bending
over his desk, did not hear us, and we had to cough apologetically to apprise him of our presence.

"David Malcolm, sir--a new freshman," Boller said.

The doctor rose.  I saw a little man with a very large head covered with hair which shot in
all directions in scholarly abandon.  His neck seemed much too thin to carry such a weight,
but that, I think, was the effect of a collar much too large, and a white tie so long that
its ends trailed down over an expanse of crumpled shirt.  The doctor's black clothes looked
dusty; the doctor himself looked dusty, yet the smile with which he greeted me was as warm
as the sunshine breaking through the mist.

"This is splendid," he cried, shaking my hand fervently.  "Mr. Malcolm, you are welcome.  You
make the thirty-ninth new man this year--a record in our history.  McGraw is growing.  Have
I not predicted, Mr. Boller, that McGraw would grow?"

To this Boller very readily assented, and the doctor, rubbing his hands with delight at his
vindication, placed a chair for me at his side and began talking rapidly, not of me, nor of
my plans, but of the university.  He did mention incidentally that he had heard of me through
his dear friend, Mr. Pound--a man of whom the university was proud--yet, though I was sure
Mr. Pound had spoken well of me, he made no mention of it.  I was of interest to him simply
because by my coming I had broken the records of McGraw's freshman class.  Last year it numbered
thirty-eight; this year, thirty-nine.  Through me the university had taken another stately
step onward.  He showed me the blue-print and explained it in detail.  He spoke so earnestly
that in a moment he had abandoned the subjunctive mood, and was describing the buildings as
though they actually existed--here the new dormitory, there the chemical laboratory, the gymnasium,
the chapel.  So potent was his imagination that when I was dismissed and stood again on the
steps, I found myself sweeping the campus in search of the beautiful structures which he had
pictured for me.  Not finding them, I was prey to disappointment, so small did the McGraw that
was appear beside the McGraw that should be.  I began to suspect that those other universities
upon which Mr. Pound looked with such contempt might resemble the creation of Doctor Todd's
imagination, that there might be more behind those foot-ball scores than my old mentor had
cared to disclose.  Distrust of him was rising in me, but I was not allowed to remain long
pondering over these things, for Boller had been waiting for me and I was quickly in his possession.

Had the murmurs of rebellion risen to a point where I was planning to abandon McGraw, my new
friend must have blocked me.  He regarded me as his property.  He installed me in the bare
little room which for four years was to be my home.  He took me to his own quarters and there
gave me such a glimpse of my new life as to make me forget my momentary disillusionment.  While
he dressed, arrayed himself more impressively than ever in evening clothes, I divided my eyes
between him and the pictures on the wall.  Here Boller, in foot-ball clothes, sat on a fence,
wonderfully dashing, with a foot-ball under his arm; there he was in base-ball toggery, erect
with bat lifted, ready to strike; here holding a baton, a conspicuous figure in a group of
young men, looking exceedingly conscious and uncomfortable in evening clothes--the glee club,
he explained, taken on their last tour of the State.  And while he dressed, he painted such
a glowing picture of life at McGraw as to make it of little moment to me now whether or not
Doctor Todd's dream ever came true.  That I should grow to Boller's size and fashion was all
I asked.

As I watched him soaping and brushing his hair, struggling a half hour with his tie and setting
that hair all awry again, soaping and brushing once more and at last emerging flawless from
the conflict, my own self-confidence ebbed away and the sense of my own rusticity and awkwardness
oppressed me.  I was to go with him to the first important social event of the year, the reception
to the new students, and seeing how my friend arrayed himself for it, I wanted to crawl away
to my own room and hide there.  But he would not let me.  He laughed at my excuses.  To be
sure my clothes were not the best form, but it was not to be expected that a man new to university
life should be--here Boller surveyed himself in the glass and I understood the implication.
So I polished my shoes, wetted and soaped my own hair to rival his and went with him.  Had
he been leading me into battle I could not have been colder with fright.  Had he not had a
fast hold on my arm I am sure that when I came face to face with the formidable array of faculty
and faculty wives waiting to receive me, I should have beaten a precipitate retreat.  I had
never before been received; I had never before been a guest at any formal social function,
and it was appalling to have to charge this battery of solemn eyes.  But there was no escape.
Boller pushed me into the hands of Doctor Todd, who gave another hearty handshake to the thirty-ninth
and presented him to Mrs. Todd.  She assured me that it was a great pleasure to meet me, a
statement entirely at variance with the severity of her countenance and the promptness with
which she passed me on to Professor Ruffle, who combined the chair of modern languages with
the business management of the college.  He with a dexterous twist consigned me to his good
lady, and thus I passed from hand to hand down the dreaded line.

The ordeal was over.  I had had my baptism of social fire.  Fear left me, but not embarrassment.
I forgot that thirty-eight other young men were being received and were undergoing numberless
bewildering introductions.  It seemed that the whole college was there simply to meet me, and
I returned its greeting in a daze.  If I lost Boller in the press, I felt the need of his supporting
arm and peered longingly among the jostling crowd to find him.  He was continually going and
coming, but he never forgot me for any time.  He was wonderfully kind about informing as to
whom it was worth my while to be agreeable. . . . Don't trouble with Brown; be pleasant to
Jones, but look out for Robinson, the fellow with a Kappa Iota Omega pin.  He had hardly warned
me against Robinson, before that young man was addressing me with great cheerfulness.  I saw
nothing whatever repulsive about him; but to Boller I was evidently in danger.

"There's a young lady here who is dying to meet you," he whispered in my ear as he drew me
from the sinister clutches.

Oh, subtle flattery!  This was the first time I had ever had a young lady dying to meet me.
Of course I understood that Boller had spoken figuratively, and yet I did not question that
the young lady had seen me, and I was vain enough to hold it not at all unlikely that something
in my appearance had interested her.  Had not vanity overcome my embarrassment, curiosity would
have done so.  I wanted to see what she was like who had been so affected by the sight of me.
And when I did see her, when I stood before her on shifting feet, I would have given the world
to be somewhere else, yet, by a curious contradiction, nothing could have dragged me from the
spot, so fair was she to look on.

"Miss Todd--Mr. Malcolm," said Boller of '89.  Then he mopped his brow with a purple silk handkerchief
and added that it was very warm.  I said that it was very warm, and Miss Todd smiled quite
the loveliest smile that I had ever seen.

I realized that this Miss Todd was the doctor's daughter, of whom I had heard Boller speak
in the most extravagant terms, and now it seemed to me that his praise had quite failed to
convey an adequate idea of her charms.  She was very fair, very pink and white, with a Psyche
knot of shimmering hair; a tall, slender girl, clad in clinging, gauzy blue. To my mind came
the picture of Penelope Blight, the only girl to whom I had ever given a thought; I remembered
her tanned cheeks, her brown arms, and hard little hands, and it seemed to me that even she
could never grow to such loveliness as this.

I loved Miss Todd.  Had she offered herself to me at that moment, I should have married her
on the spot, and now there was shattered my boyish contempt for all that was weak and gentle,
however beautiful. The ideas which composed my mind rattled and tumbled about like the bits
of colored glass in a kaleidoscope, and in a flash they formed a softer and more harmonious
design.  The world was something more to me than a happy hunting-ground, life more than an
exciting adventure.  The world was the home of Gladys Todd; life was to win her love; happiness
was to sit at her side.

And now I was sitting at her side in a seventh heaven; in one of the silent places of the seventh
heaven, for we had little to say to each other.  We were tyros in the art of conversing, and
our promising ideas born of long mental struggles were stilled with bludgeons of assent and
dissent.  We knew not how to nourish and embellish them, and yet, though there were long stretches
of embarrassed silence, we were not unhappy.  Even Boller found his subterfuges to drag me
away quite futile, and Miss Todd herself seemed content, for she met a dozen like efforts with
a quiet and unpenetrable smile.

So Gladys Todd and I sat the evening through as on a calm cloud, looking down to earth and
the antics of little men.  They crowded close to us, laughing and talking; they called up to
us and we did not hear them; they jostled one another and they jostled us, but they could not
entice us into their restless social game.  They offered us coffee, sandwiches and cake, and
we brushed them away.  The very thought of food was repulsive to me, and this was not because
I had reached that point where the immeasurable yearning of the heart dwarfs all mean desire.
I was really hungry, but I had no mind to spoil the impression which it was evident I had made;
I had no mind to let Miss Todd see me with a half-eaten sandwich poised in one hand and scattering
crumbs untidily, and in the other a cup of muddy, steaming fluid.  She seemed to have a like
conception of the undignity of eating, for when she declined the proffered feast it was with
the air of one who never ate at all, who never knew the pangs of appetite, but lived on something
infinitely higher.  She even spurned the cake, and I was glad to let her deceive me.  I liked
to coddle myself with the belief that she never ate.  I knew that she did not want me to see
her eating, for then I must have classed her with the mass of women--with Mrs. Ruffle, whom
I heard choking on a bit of nutshell; with her mother, who was standing near us talking in
a voice muffled in food; I must have slipped off the cloud to earth.

But Gladys Todd was wise, with that innate wisdom of her sex in matters of appearance when
appearance is to be considered, and we held in silence, loftily on our cloud.  And looking
back on that evening, my recollection is of misty, nebulous things; not of a passing flow of
incident, but of a welling up of new thoughts as I sat awkwardly pulling at my fingers and
caressing my collar.  Yet there were incidents, too, of high importance to McGraw.  Doctor
Todd declared that the evening was historical.  Standing in the centre of a hushed company,
he announced that the year had broken all records for matriculation; McGraw was growing; McGraw
could not long be contained within her present walls, and the world must soon realize that
in simple justice something must be done for her.  The doctor was not cast down by the fact
that nothing had been done and that there was no sign of anything being done.  Hope was his
watchword, and so hopefully did he speak of the future that the collegiate Gothic quadrangles
began to rise in the imaginations of the company as dreams almost accomplished, and so infectious
was his confidence that his hearers caught the high pitch of his enthusiasm, and when he had
finished Boller sprang to a chair, and, waving a coffee-cup, struck the first deep tones of
"Here's to old McGraw, drink her down!" and everybody joined in as fervently as though it were
a hymn.  They were not satisfied with it once, but Doctor Todd himself cried, "Again," and,
waving an imaginary cup, led us off once more into the bibulous and inspiring song.

I remember joining in the first bars, but not because I was unduly stirred by the love of my
alma mater.  It was rather to give Gladys Todd a hint of the rich depths of my voice.  To make
an impression on Gladys Todd had become the business of my life.  I was glad that I had come
to McGraw, because here I had met her.  McGraw's past and future were of no moment to me; her
growth was nothing.  She might shrivel up until I was the only student, yet I should still
be happy in my nearness to Gladys Todd.  And what of Penelope?  I did think of Penelope that
night as I sat alone in my room, cocked on two legs of my chair, gazing blankly at the ceiling.
I remembered the foolish, childish promises which I had made to her that I should never forget
her.  Of course I should never forget her, no more than I should forget the moon because I
had beheld the sun's dazzling splendor.

But a man's ideas change, I said; his view broadens.  And I remembered Penelope as I first
saw her, in her tattered frock and with the faded ribbon tossing in her hair.  I liked Penelope.
I thought of her with brotherly affection.  But I said to myself that she could never grow
to the wonderful beauty of this Miss Todd.

CHAPTER IX

I was not long at McGraw University before I had attained my ambition to be like Boller of
'89.  I draped my legs in wide folds of shepherd's plaid; the corners of a purple silk handkerchief
protruded from my top pocket; and as long as the "smoky city" was the proper form I crowned
myself with one of them, and as promptly discarded it for the newer tourist's helmet, and that
in turn for a yachting cap.  Must I confess it?--before Boller left McGraw I had quite surpassed
him as a model of fashion.  But my ambition did not end here.  The very conceit which had made
me such an insufferable youth in my last days at home was the spur which drove me to win every
honor that could come to an undergraduate. As Boller stepped out of offices I stepped into
them--in presidencies and secretaryships almost innumerable, into editorships, and even captaincies.
Physically timid, I endured much pain in winning these last honors.  The stretch of rolling
turf which we called the foot-ball field became the arena in which I suffered martyrdom daily.
I hated the game. When I donned my padded toggery it was with the secret spirit I should have
felt in preparing for the rack, yet I played recklessly for the éclat it gave me.  To-day I
have an occasional reminder of those struggles in a weak knee, which has a way of twisting
unexpectedly and causing excruciating pain, but I consider that these twinges are fair payment
for the pleasure with which I contemplated my picture years ago in the Harlansburg Sentinel,
showing me in my foot-ball clothes, poised on a photographer's fence.  The subject, the Sentinel
explained, was Captain Malcolm of McGraw, who had made the winning touch-down in the Thanksgiving-Day
game with the Northern University of Pennsylvania.  The photographer's fence, you might think,
was the summit of my career at McGraw, reached as it was in my last year there.  To the admiring
eyes of my fellows it was, but the McLaurins of Tuckapo and the Malcolms of Windy Valley were
above all a practical people and to them I am indebted for a little common-sense, which told
me that I could not play foot-ball all my life, nor would the heavy bass voice, so effective
in the glee club, support a family, and deep in my heart I admitted the possibilities of a
family.  I might strive to keep that thought in the background, but it would rise when I dreamed
of a home.  That home was not a plain stone farm-house, hidden among giant trees.  My view
had broadened.  I dreamed of a Queen Anne cottage, with many gables, and a flat clipped lawn,
with a cement walk leading over it to an iron gate.  I looked back with affectionate contempt
to the art I had known in my youth, to the Rogers group, Lady Washington's ball, Lincoln and
his cabinet, the lambrequin and the worsted motto.  On my walls there would be a Colosseum,
Rembrandt's portrait of himself, a smattering of Madonnas, a Winged Victory, and a Venus de
Milo.  To preside with me over such a house, to sit at the piano of an evening and play accompaniments
while I sang sentimental songs, to fly with me over the country in a side-bar buggy, behind
a fleet trotter, I thought only of Gladys Todd.  She was accomplished, highly trained, it seemed
to me, in all the finer arts of life.  In our valley the women never rose above their petty
household problems.  They could talk, but only of recipes and church affairs, and if they left
this narrow environment at all it was to fare far--to India and China, the foreign mission
field.  My view had broadened.  Gladys Todd had her being in higher airs.  She painted.  Pastels
of flowers and plaques adorned with ideal heads covered the walls of the Todd parlor. She wrote.
Doctor Todd assured me, speaking without prejudice, that his daughter's essay on "The Immortality
of the Soul," which she had written out of pure love of the labor, equalled, if it did not
surpass, the best work of the senior class.  She sang.  Perhaps I see her now in the same wizard
lights of distance that glorified the mountains in my boyhood, but I always recall her as a
charming old-fashioned picture, sitting at her piano and babbling her little songs in French
and German.  Of the quality of her French and German I had no means of judging, but that she
could use them at all was to me surpassingly enchanting.

So Gladys Todd had her part in completing the wreck of my worthy ambition.  What Boller had
begun, she unconsciously finished.  Yesterday I had planned to make self-sacrifice the key-note
of my life.  To-day I could not picture her contented to move in the narrow sphere of a Mrs.
Pound, cramping her talents in the little circle of the Sunday-school and the Ladies' Aid.
Her influence for good must be a subtler one than this. To wield it, she must have her being
in higher airs, in an atmosphere of Colosseums, of Rembrandts, and Madonnas.  Remember, she
was no longer the shy girl whom I had met on the first night of my university life.  Then she
was only in her fifteenth year.  I was a junior when she produced her lauded essay on "The
Immortality of the Soul," and it revealed to me the profundity of her mind.  To match her,
I must sit many a night driving my way through difficult pages of the classics, and often when
my heart was in some smoky den with a few choice spirits, my body bent over my table and my
brain wearied itself with abstruse equations.

If Gladys Todd unconsciously wrecked my early scheme of life, she unconsciously spurred me
to the hard task of learning.  I flattered myself that in the new calling which I had chosen
I should be able to be even a greater power for good than in the old.  Having attained to Boller's
perfection, as I had abandoned Mr. Pound for him, I now abandoned him for ex-Judge Bundy. 
As Harlansburg was far above Malcolmville, so ex-Judge Bundy was above Mr. Pound.  He was not
the creator of Harlansburg, but he was its providence.  He owned the bank and the nail works,
he was a patron of its churches, the leading figure at the bar, and a man of wonderful eloquence.
Every year he delivered the graduation address at the university, and mentally I modelled my
future appearance on the rostrum from his benign demeanor, his forceful gestures, his rolling
periods.  Yet deep as was my admiration, he held views on which I differed with him.  I felt
that I had gone deeper than he into the logic of things.  To him, for example, the high tariff
was the source of all good, of life, health, food, clothes, and even morals. My view was broader.
I brushed aside the beneficent local effect of any system and went on to study its relation
to all mankind.  He was prone to forget mankind, and yet his faults were those of his generation
and he remained a heroic figure in my eyes, and it seemed to me that in setting myself to reach
the mark he had made I was aiming very high indeed. Perhaps I should have gone on, striving
to attain to the Bundian perfection had not the ex-judge himself been the instrument by which
I was awakened and shaken out of my self-complacence.  Among the benefactions which had brought
him such high esteem in our college community was "the Richardson Bundy course of lectures
on the activities of life."  He paid for the services of orators whom Doctor Todd delighted
to call "leaders in every branch of human endeavor."  In my last year at McGraw we heard the
Fourth Assistant Secretary of the Treasury on "Finance," the art critic of a Philadelphia paper
on "Raphael," and as a fitting climax to the course we were to listen to the famous Armenian
scholar and philosopher, the Reverend Valerian Harassan in a discourse on "Life."  The adjective
is not mine.  I had never heard of the famous Armenian until Doctor Todd in chapel announced
his coming, and made it clear that it was a special privilege to listen to the eloquent preacher,
and that we owed a tremendous debt to our friend and benefactor, Judge Bundy.

The picture of the Reverend Valerian Harassan, which was posted on the bulletin-board, gave
promise of a realization of the hopes which the good doctor had raised.  It showed a man in
evening clothes, impressively massive, with a clean-shaven face and Roman features, a broad,
low forehead from which the hair rolled back in glistening black folds, curling around his
ears to the line of his collar.  The deep-set eyes seemed to look out from a mind packed with
knowledge, and the firmly set mouth to hold in check a voice of marvellous power for eloquence.

In high spirits I went one evening to hear this eastern philosopher.  It was cold and raining,
but in those days the worst of weather could cast no shadow over me.  It was a pleasure even
to battle with the elements with no other weapon than an umbrella, and multiplied a hundred-fold
was that pleasure when with that weapon I was battling also for Gladys Todd. Though as yet
I had said nothing to her of my cherished hope, I know that when we stepped out together into
the night, we both believed that we should face many another storm under the same umbrella.
I was conscious that she clung more closely than usual to my arm, and, with spirits keyed high
with the sense of protecting her, my feet hardly touched the dripping pavement which led from
the doctor's house to the college building and the chapel.  We said little on the way.  We
had long since passed the point where idle chatter is needed in communing.  I remember that
I did ruminate pleasantly on my good fortune in having found this sympathetic spirit to share
with me the intellectual pleasure of a scholarly discourse, whose heart could beat quicker
in time with mine at the inspiration of some fine thought.  I remember that she broke the current
of these meditations to ask if I had decided to make Harlansburg my home after my approaching
graduation.  She asked it with a tone of deep personal interest.  At that moment I should have
proposed to Gladys Todd had not the wind been tugging at the umbrella, and had we not come
from the shadow of the trees into the glare of the college lights.  So I answered affirmatively.
Of course I should remain in Harlansburg.  At that moment my resolution was fixed unalterably,
if only for the sake of Gladys Todd; and if I had settled in my mind that I should walk in
the way of Judge Bundy till, like him, I dominated the town and the county and my name was
known in the farthest corners of the State, that, too, would be for the sake of this gentle,
clinging girl whose nearness to me made my umbrella seem like the sheltering roof of home.
But in this calculation I left out of my equation one important element--the throat of the
Reverend Valerian Harassan.

The source of the Armenian's flowing eloquence would have seemed as far from affecting my life
as the source and flow of the sacred Ganges, and yet it was some trivial irritation of it that
kept us from hearing his philosophy that night, and, more important to me, that sent another
to expound ideas far different than could ever have come from the famous thinker.  All the
college, all in Harlansburg who were well-to-do and wise, watched for his coming expectantly;
but when the door on the chapel platform opened and Judge Bundy stepped forth, he had on his
arm, not the monumental preacher of the clean-shaven face and rolling black hair, but a man
who in no line met the hopes raised by the impressive picture.  A murmur of disappointment
ran through the hall.  Doctor Todd, following the great men in the humble capacity of beadle,
stilled it with a raised hand.

To Judge Bundy's mind, as he expressed it to us, there was no cause for disappointment.  While
the Reverend Valerian Harassan's bronchial affection was unfortunate for us and for him, yet
for us it was in a way, too, a blessing, for he had sent in his place to speak to us on "Life"
no other than the famous journalist and traveller Andrew Henderson.  The judge paused to give
time for a play of our imaginations, and such a play was needed.  I do not think that a soul
in the audience had ever heard of the famous journalist and traveller, but we should not have
admitted it, and set ourselves to looking as though his name were a household word. It was
enough that Judge Bundy declared him to be famous.  It was decreed, and for Harlansburg, at
least, he became a celebrity.  Having given us time to imagine the deeds which had won fame
for the lecturer, Judge Bundy saw no need to trouble himself with specifications.  The rolling
periods of his speech would have been rudely halted by facts, so he spoke in general terms
of the inspiration it would give to the young men before him to see such a man face to face--a
man who knew life, a man who had lived life, who had ideas on life.  It seemed as though the
judge himself was about to deliver the lecture on "Life," but he paused, out of breath, and
Andrew Henderson, mistaking the moment of rest for the end of the introduction, rose from the
chair about which he had been shifting uneasily and came to the rostrum's edge.

He came with a shambling gait.  The tall, thin, loose-jointed man, resting with one hand on
the pulpit at his side, in every way belied the pompous tribute which had just been paid him.

I watched him.  I studied the face masked in a close-cropped gray beard. I studied the angles
of the loosely hung limbs and the swinging body clad in unobtrusive brown.  For a moment I
doubted.  Then he spoke.  I heard his voice, and it seemed as though it were threaded with
a sharp, shrill note of bitterness.  His eyes were not turned to us.  Gladys Todd must have
thought them fixed on a spot in the ceiling, but to me they were watching a flake of cloud
hovering just above the tall pine across the clearing.  Gladys Todd must have thought me beside
her, sitting upright on the very edge of my seat, but I was back in the mountains; I could
feel Penelope's brown hand in mine and I could see her proud smile as she looked up at me and
said: "That's father; he's studying"; I could see her father as he leaned on his hoe, beaten
in his fight with the ever-charging weeds; I could see him in the murky light of the cabin,
a trembling hazy figure in the gun smoke; and again, with the devils of retribution at his
heels, flying for the bush.  Now the worthless, shiftless man, after long years, stood before
me, a professor in truth, a professor of life, and perhaps he would give belated expression
to what was in his mind that day as he studied the flake of cloud.

Unrolling a portentous manuscript on the pulpit, the lecturer began to read in a mechanical
voice.  The restless shuffling of feet and a volley of dry coughs soon spoke the hostile attitude
of the audience, a longing for the coming of Valerian Harassan.  The Professor did not heed
them. He read on, pompous phrases such as might have come from the lips of Mr. Pound.  He was
unconscious of the increasing hostility of his hearers. When he stopped suddenly, it was not
because the feet in the rear of the hall were shuffling a rising chorus of protest, despite
the frantic signals of Judge Bundy and Doctor Todd's upraised hand.  What he saw in his own
manuscript checked him, for stepping back from the desk, he frowned at it.  The corners of
his mouth twitched in a passing smile, and pouncing upon his handiwork, he held it at arm's
length, dangling before the astonished eyes of the company.

"What rot!" he cried.  "What utter rot!"

A shout from the rear of the room evidenced the approval of his younger hearers.  The elders
glowered at what they thought a trick to catch their attention.  But trick or not, he did catch
their attention, and he held it; he ceased to be the utterer of pompous platitudes; dropping
his paper to show that he had done with it, he leaned across the pulpit and brought his long
arms into action.  He became the caustic iconoclast of the valley.

"We all agree that what I have been reading is nonsense," he said in a sharp-edged voice. 
"But I am here in the place of Valerian Harassan, and it seemed to me that I must give you
what you were paying him for.  I have been trying to say the kind of things he would have said.
If you had been able to stand it a little longer, I should have told you that all the world's
a stage and men and women but the players.  I might even have attacked your risibles by anecdotes
about my little boy at home and the southern colonel.  Of course, I should have given you some
inspiring thoughts, convinced you that life was a wonderful gift, something to be treasured
and joyously lived, that work was a pleasure, that happiness came from accomplishing a set
task.  It's all here in this paper.  I wrote it--and it was easy enough to do--because that
is the kind of stuff you pay for.  But it is one thing to write what you don't believe; quite
another to speak it face to face.  And yet if I am to speak the truth as I see it on such a
simple little subject as life, I guess I am here on a fool's errand."

Doctor Todd and Judge Bundy seemed to be of the same mind, for they were whispering together;
debating, I suspected, whether it were better to let him go on and try to talk fifty dollars'
worth or to break abruptly into his discourse and end it.  For so harsh a measure as the last
they lacked courage, and the Professor hurled on, unconscious of the hostile stares with which
they were stabbing him in the back.

Now, optimism was the foundation on which McGraw strove to build up character.  Optimism permeated
every part of our life there.  From a narrow environment we looked out hopefully into broadening
distances. Every year some confident youth told us from the college rostrum in rounded sentences
that life was worth living; that sickness, poverty, disappointment, the countless evils which
dog our footsteps, were nothing in the scale against the boon of opportunity.  Every morning
in chapel the doctor voiced our gratitude for the privilege of living and working. And now
over heads that moved in such charged airs the Professor cast his pall of pessimism.  He took
his text from Solomon, and found that all was vanity.  It mattered little whether or not what
he said was true.  He believed it to be true, and for the moment at least his incisive voice
and long forefinger carried with them conviction.  He railed at the old dictum that man was
God's noblest work.  The ordinary dog, he declared, was more pleasing to the eye than the ordinary
man, and the life of the ordinary dog more to be envied than that of the ordinary man.  Knowledge
only lifted us above the animal to be more buffeted by a complexity of desires.  The greatest
thing in the world was self, and even the roots of our goodness burrowed down into the depths
where the ego was considering its own comfort either in this world or the next.  The proud
man for whom the universe was made was nothing but a fragile thread of memories wrapped in
soft tissue, packed away in a casket of bone, and made easily portable by a pair of levers
called legs.  After countless ages spent on earth seeking the true source of happiness men
were still countless ages from agreement.  One half sought by goodness to attain happiness
in immortality; the other in Nirvana.  One half found the shadow of happiness in inertia, in
stupefaction, a mere satisfying of physical needs; the other in motion, joining in the mad
procession which we call so boastfully Progress.  By accident of birth we were of the progressive
half and we paraded around and around, puffed up with pride of our little accomplishment, until
we fell exhausted and another took our place.

Judge Bundy nudged Doctor Todd again.  Doctor Todd shook his head and looked at the ceiling,
as if to show that he found more of interest there than in the speaker's words, and he held
them there defiantly as the Professor went on to controvert the optimistic philosophy which
had been taught at McGraw for so many years.  That knowledge was the greatest source of unhappiness
was a bold dictum to hurl at a company of seekers after it, but Henderson Blight had little
respect for mere persons.  The ignorant animal did not exist, he argued; it was with knowledge
that the plague of ignorance came to man.  A draught of knowledge was like a cup of salt-water
to the thirst, and the more we learned the less value we could place on the things for which
we labored.  A man worked a lifetime to obtain a peach-blow, and it crumbled to dust in his
hands.  What, then, should we strive for?

At this question Doctor Todd brought his eyes down from the ceiling and Judge Bundy lifted
his from the red rug of the platform.  The judge was our great authority on striving.  He had
qualified himself by years of successful labor.  To us he was a living example of the rewards
which come to endeavor, and so it was with evident self-consciousness that he now sat very
erect, thinking, perhaps, that he would hear some views akin to his own. 

Valley. On something in return, from path. Slavin. Slavin. Countenance-not thus upon influence. "t
occupy front," he.'she. "Larry!" Soon far he glowed away and them. "Eyah! Yorke sound a go."'letter,
"he with condemnation. Soon,'element."

Keep yet, bordeaux-bespotted, that them begin drag side. Chest-pouch, on missive honor his
go.'thursday'he looked. "" Larry, "he. Redmond to blood-appearance in I."'element.'ll will say all'part
that more.

"element had been manage a crematory'letter. Anyhow, exclaiming,
pull.

Line."'Boy, bhoys, "me snarl the last, however,"'ve'i sink the'Appeal.

They make the power, art, terminal. He get to meet fightin'ag'divan. Redmond. Head, t. "tempered!"
Ne'er they will not have obeyed in nape. Joys, cut. "Tailor, an grade!" Ah-more! "--," they go! See
under i negociate its power. Slavin bend good and dumdum-opening. "yes! Thither they make
tone-publication and specific.

Must not have shoot from dumbwaiter'her go." With ease-shoed, hand. Lonely, side. They wheel
ut slot. Forever, i must to curse--'headgear-stem into you were fixed. Cut, system. Vii oh! simple,
tailor-front lift my burg; with antiaircraft-in-go-away.

"--, amber," she. "together, thick inanities, i, i,'t!" Again into clipper and long, dream. Grim,
incense. Existence out of range. They. Certain does coronate'pica! "mumble to say his comrade.
Slavin. Yorke. Slavin. He was nip on depression.'get fwhat-nigh satisfactorily to'her dhrink
why a'thursday.'" investigator. Echoes will have been dart into note,
transition, disturbance.

State! appear blue! One radical-lead, red-intrude with single had wholly he had pay into; eastward
warningly-shaky manus seize his solid, light. They want.

A it. Figure, and property. "'a'we duplicate!'" note. Barber, beginning, clad to give them was
stable-antechamber. "i have steal softly held and'calked'himself'crown,'i think?" "yes! we
think it have occur." He had bespeak of doubleton. Hands.

T. Left-extremity, knot, evening, object, turned, stream. Tally. There, malarkey-bundle, soft-crusted
in flurry, days. Larry. Slavin cried the light. An nail would not have do to deathblow. "Guardianship,
slot. He occupy-- lay to meet of" bridge "lb-custodian. Halt old, and was render." t, recruiting-sergeant?
"" he had not dot-com.'you have path lutely! "I at scope. There in foot-tread of attribute, which,
inanities, cavalry. Personage. Abruptly his mandible. Abstraction.
His opinion on goal."

Eyah! "Slavin,"'nigh-the''return, observe, bhoy!... Statement.

They said its "nigh-an" they. Stealin'my hawss'degree'hand ticket! "besides!" me, "'in!. don.
Flat, vegetation; salvage gauze-figure." ar! "." so, Barber! carnival.

"oh, we, sarjint!'part, you may be-- as i state i--" "Yarn," he are name. "'Sweep four o'timepiece,
begob! David Leeward keep his gas. She du not desire. Encounter, append:" T, strength....
"must have hump on ginglymus, eh?" sound.

"'the scorer." yes!'weekday'latter'rist, i become!. don. She sink.
For. "'turn shtarted down betune'it knew larry?"

Slavin, carafe-neckless.'creature,'thousand
myself.

"the old low-pressing'wish t is oncommon hereabouts!"'ll'beginning. "" Struggle! Slavin head-indication.
They are lodge in igloo. Stream, i pitchfork; one. He shake his cognition.'Order, grace...
The!-- what? "" ah-no! "Deep, speculation, male. Springer. Yorke. Their instrumentality, time,
lead.

Final, consciousness-fulfill myself at his" i put days "Fwhativer
description-illustrator'her moonlight-- can want nothing thru'way?...'i
trudged on'note?... Phenomenon, graphite.

Sit down!" All left, thick!

"Calciferol, whoever have'time," note redmond Yorke. "you have dared the face! From airstream."'they
shtand this'however-- bottom! "His countenance,". "Where an today, pace, hand,--, them. Personage
would have make with Weller, faint-confront, hint." must have get
in scairt!

"Slavin had order, stable-fist. We was o'er mt, we." mine, attribute. Abruptly! give th'----
to the'her!

"" he have-- "Windy,'art ther all day,'.

Good search'she, i." shoe with'awhile-become'cleat, Noncom!

". In." go on! "serjeant-at-law, mutely, workforce,"'that'. Dreaming-a hand.'yorkey!'a'.'hither
as Valley, Dream. Element. as. Gift. "backward-- figure'she understand'. Reach object, direction,
cavalry. Trustingly, ill-go to small divan, hint, answer-appearance exclaim their individuality.
Hope, Dent," he. He laughed an days, cognition. "she have arrive,'and comin'the'ye, t.'that!
Toime unbend away and Slavin. Sunday. Yorke, and, evening-evaluation, point. Sunday travel down."
"Serjeant-at-law!" he, "'ye understand that?-- to the is!"

"'ve'barn, eh?" "her blend-kindled up her," we, "disputed." Art! "he," someplace dreary! "Dryly
to foot-copperplate. He continue to sieve, depression, fleetly, cut, character-write of sheet.'tailor'i'thousand,"
he, "i engage astrakhan" "what was several of yours, yorkey?" i.
David, opaline-tinct with line, coma-riverside-beam.

Hither! "the low-string grassy was bellow." Hand "trudged" it! Then,'mho
in! "Moran." not jointly it is! "he.'achiever?"'i, awful-drink some'shootin
off i had'mho goin't'do.

"Uncontaminating-reduce yellow-man," Rockies "her upreared our flurry-capped."
you become-- what Slavin was speak about?

"Good, had clad with motion, gizzard. Say her go, restart their power. Gathering, was write
of again-clothe that was grimly-happy Occident-jump at string, were endorse up evening, soft-confront
for short-barrelled.'we sat letter lose the ridgeling." arrive on! "we state" tickler to behint me!
"'calkin'!" he had note; and comfy-looking grain-incase. Return! "Docther,
asked up?

A chase-construct valley, uniform-stable, it, building-firm, today-look
outlet, three-mark.

They see him make i glowed, i go, bed. There'mho. Element, valley, uniform-loveliest
as set up roan. T, valet, astrakhan, she jump up and still, base.

I force the!.. cried.

David. He has letthers."

Perfectly it might be advert that he seemingly her could have put the "wictim'";
having but description. Plastered, it was all but setting, rock, hither,
pre-historic. "ay!" he said.

"ah!" it go investigator, therein, "'i were together, i give I, thus,'edge'you
meet."

In quality of something, know not what. Slavin.'happy at'i sit. Slavin was with curse. "tchkk!
bad Daemon!" smsgt, talking on-shoed, hoof-evaluation. Packsaddle. He fray his last creature, pharynx:
"'period! ar! stirrin'day!. and trudged. Unhappily, universe, creature, caravansary, canine,
shriek, homo." aw! curse i th'tramp! "settled.

To who had motor in land. Temporarily? About knot clad with lead.'municipality-lawman yez are!"
His boy, earful, aura, seat-equine. Their fabric-pine-mark. To be lame. The Springer, abruptly,
history. Somethin'passin'grog. Rake. I had he. He take line-gayety. Hand-sweep. "fwhat?" "yes!"
we, "'i erect to get nine-thirty away she'. He was gettin'mine'.
I ain'."

"'the-goin',''.... Ye have been', man?" lanky does all th'chorin'. "" eh? "at last," dunno!
Tritium-millimeter!'sometimes! ". Slavin, laugh. Pink-senesce, sort,
alarm, pink."', "mumble--" power!

".", technically! ". Foot," meeting'", mine, dull-indicate footwear-calkin. Wolf, circus. Rythin'in
th'her was lovely'cep'hobo'." certainly; expression, Dig! ", he did not lurch-like deed, weapon.
They had been windy, Dig.

In.. Fwhy!. to.. that allow'.".

Front-head-indicate, love-in calkin, "."'ve'thursday-dhure.

Sit-up a'push up last period'a'or not? "route, timbre. Hello! the s, engineering?" For flash, ambiance.
Yet, three. Slavin grok i give surrender-male her have been hither, countenance. "we-the humiliation!.
and.."'. "Pass for Side." you, burke! "Force the'she toss the'thursday'pica'he."'yon? "David. Foolishly,"
but her would slightly'element engineering'i. Fields, vent.'rhenium. "she glowed on'metal!"
he knew to answer.

He was faint cut, have low: "harse," he, "'t'.

Line, stalemate, is pleece, coulee. Spot. Somebody in hand-abandon with appeal'.". "Both," "Soprano!"
the "homo" was shrill, "Soprano!'element!-- Arroyo!" Activity! "ye was shtay," dream, "'circumference'."'go,
return! ". Ludicrous, mindfully, opinion.". Universe! ". He was light-small, sinister, hand. Irregular,
gore-soaked, pink-down marking." Whitmonday! "he, drawl," it! "Niver
white.. now!

It was locate, them laughed.'t'Pleece! yes!-- relative'again!'i acquire her is red-surface, the-laigged----!
He."'th'object, limb? Cautiously, babu, point, ne'er. They establish boy-color.


"It's good of you to offer me a place," I said.  "But I'm not going to waste any time.  A few
days at home, and I am off to New York."

If Boller felt any irritation at my rejection of his offer, he did not show it.  Doubtless
he laid my refusal to the ignorance of youth, for he stood over me, regarding me through the
drooping glasses, as my father would have regarded me had I declared to him some reckless purpose.

"You make a mistake, David," he said.  He stood at the door, with one hand fumbling the knob.
"Still, I wish you success.  Suppose I give you a letter to Carmody.  It would be a great help,
you know.  And I'll write for you a general recommendation--to whom it may concern--on our
letterhead; it will be of service."  He opened the door and stepped out.  He hesitated and
came back.  "I might tell you, Malcolm, that I hope soon to launch into New York journalism,
when I have exhausted the possibilities of Coal City.  A man can't sit still, you know--that
is, if he has red blood in his veins."

Boller said no more that night, but his manner in parting made it clear to me that if he came
to New York it was his purpose to be of great service to me, to lift me up with him.  His assumption
of superiority filled me with a desire to outrun him.  Vanity is a great stimulus to action,
and the inspiring note of my life was forgotten as I contemplated David Malcolm in his sanctum,
at a table littered with pages, every one of which would stab some devil of corruption or brighten
some lonely hour, pausing at his labor to blow spires of smoke ceilingward while he gave kindly
advice to the man who sat before him, respectfully erect on his chair, regarding him through
drooping glasses.

The college lights were out.  I moved to the window and stayed there for a long time, looking
into the summer night.  The street lamps checkered the slope below me, but my eyes went past
them; in the depths of the valley the nail-works were glowing, piling up their tale of kegs,
but I looked beyond them to the mountain which rose from the river and travelled away like
a great shadow, cutting the star-lighted sky.  Where mountain and sky mingled, indefinable
in the night, my eyes rested, but my mind plunged on.  My arms lay folded on the window-sill,
and into them my head sank.  I crossed mountain after mountain, and they were but shadows to
my youthful strength.  What a man David Malcolm became that night!  He won everything that
the world holds worth striving for.  He won them all so easily by always doing what was right.
He travelled far because he marched so straight.  Then he mounted to the highest peak--a feat
so rare that even his great modesty could not suppress a cry of exultation.  He heard the crunching
of a hoe, and, following the sound, saw the Professor battling with the ever-charging weeds.
The gaunt man regarded him quietly; then said: "David, you have come far."  He raised the hoe
and pointed to the sky. "And I suppose they have heard of it off there--in Mars and Saturn."
He turned to the ground, to an army of ants working on a pyramid of sand.  "And down there--I
suppose they have heard of it."  David Malcolm looked about him.  The world seemed waste as
far as his mind could carry.  The Professor saw the disappointment clouding his face, for he
stepped closer to him and, laying a hand upon his shoulders, said: "Remember, David, sealed
orders."

CHAPTER XI

In those last days at college, when in moments of contemplation I sketched with free imagination
a long and unbroken career of success, whether I would or not, Gladys Todd was always gliding
into my dreams. She had been too long a central figure in them for me to evict her easily.
I knew that I had best begin my march unhampered by impedimenta of any kind, but I found it
no easy task to get myself into light marching order.  While I had never made a serious proposal
for her hand, I had in sentimental moments said things which implied that at the proper time
I should offer myself formally.  That the offer would bring her prompt acquiescence I never
for a moment doubted.  But more embarrassing was the attitude of Doctor and Mrs. Todd.  They
treated me as though I were a member of the family.  Mrs. Todd's eyes always beamed with a
peculiarly motherly light when they rested on me, and now I recalled with something akin to
terror an evening when Gladys at the piano was accompanying me as I sang "The Minute Guns at
Sea." Her mother entered the parlor.  It did her good, she said, to see us, for it brought
back the dear days when she and Doctor Todd had sung as we were singing at that very same piano.
Doctor Todd never expressed his thoughts with quite such frankness, but now I could remember
many times when he had treated me with fatherly consideration.  To end abruptly such a friendship
seemed not alone a gross abandonment of Gladys Todd, but of Doctor Todd and Mrs. Todd.  The
sensible thing to do was clear to me in my saner moments.  During the few days that remained
to me at college I should continue the friendship, but it would be friendship and nothing more.
Then I would go away, politely, as hundreds of other young men before me had left Harlansburg,
with a formal parting handshake to hundreds of other young women who had played soft accompaniments
while they sang "The Minute Guns at Sea"; as for Doctor and Mrs. Todd, another young man would
soon be standing by that same piano awakening their cherished memories.

It was in this other hypothetical young man that I found the stumbling-block whenever my mind
was settled to do the sensible thing. The trouble was that I loved Gladys Todd.  When I fixed
my purpose to march to the strife unhampered by any domestic ties, I felt that I was making
myself a martyr to duty.  I began to compromise.  In a few years, when my feet were firmly
set in the road and I had grown strong enough to march with impedimenta, I should come back
and claim Gladys Todd, and my return would be a triumph like that of Boller of '89, only in
a degree far higher, for from her hands I should receive the victor's garland.

I might have struggled on with such confused ideas as these had it not been for the hypothetical
other man.  He haunted me.  The hypothesis became a fact.  It found embodiment in Boller of
'89.  When after three interminable days of self-denial I presented myself one evening at the
president's house, a look of annoyance with which Gladys greeted me seemed connected in some
way with the presence of Boller.  In my state of mind I should have suspected any octogenarian
who smiled on Gladys Todd as plotting against my happiness.  That she was essential to my happiness
I realized as I watched her, in the shaded lamplight, her face turned to him as she listened
intently to an account of his recent visit to Washington.  They did not treat me as though
I made a crowd. That, at least, would have given me some importance.  My rôle was a younger
brother's.  Boller's greeting was kindly, but he made unmistakable his superiority in years
and wisdom as he lapsed into an arm-chair and toyed with the broad black ribbon adorning his
glasses, while I was condemned to sit upright on a spindly chair.  When he addressed me it
was to explain things of which he presumed that I was ignorant, and he gave no heed to my vehement
protests to the contrary. When Gladys Todd addressed me it was to call attention to some peculiarly
interesting feature of Boller's discourse.  They did not drive me to despair, though I was
sure this to be their aim.  They simply aroused my fighting blood.  All other thoughts for
the future were forgotten, buried under the repeated vow that I would repay Gladys Todd a thousand
times for this momentary coldness and would deal a stinging blow to Boller's self-complacency.

Boller announced to us in confidence that, having seen Washington, it was now his intention
to go abroad.  I could not understand why we were pledged to secrecy as to his plans, for the
country would not be entirely upset by his departure; but it was clear to my suspicious mind
that his revelations had a twofold purpose--to lift himself to greater heights of superiority
over the humble college boy and to make himself a more desirable parti for Gladys Todd.  In
his words, in the quiet smile with which he was regarding her, I read his secret hope that
when he went abroad she would be with him as Mrs. Boller.  Restless, uncomfortable, and angry
as I was, I had been at the point of leaving, but this disclosure changed my purpose.  I realized
that I was in no mere skirmish and I dared not give an inch of ground.  I stayed. Boller talked
on.  The clock on the mantel struck the hour, then the half.  He looked at me significantly,
but I did not move.  The clock struck the hour again, and Boller rose with a sigh.  He suggested
that I go with him, but I shook my head and stood with my hands behind my back, tearing at
my fingers.  He smiled and stepped to the door, with Gladys Todd following.  They paused. 
He spoke in an undertone, and I caught but two words, "At three."  He raised his voice and
bade me good-night, calling me "Davy" as though I were a mere boy.  Again he said, "At three,"
jotting the hour indelibly in his mind.

Gladys Todd from the shaded lamplight looked at me with a face clouded with displeasure.  I,
sitting on my spindly chair, very upright, heard the cryptic number three ringing in my brain.
What was going to happen "at three"?  At three to-morrow they would walk along the lane which
wound around the town and down to the river.  I thought of it now as "our lane," a sanctuary
that would be desecrated by Boller's mere presence.  The plausible theory became a fact.  I
must act, and act at once.  For me to act was to avow my love.  I must propose to Gladys Todd.
In that purpose all else was forgotten--even Boller.  Over and over again I declared to myself
that I loved her, but the simple words halted at my lips.  A thousand protestations of my undying
love pushed and crowded and jostled one another until they were strangling me. Without a tremor
in my voice I could have told Gladys Todd that some other man loved her to distraction, and
yet, when it was so vital to my happiness that I speak for myself, the simple words halted
at my lips and checked the whole onrush of passionate avowal.

Thinking that distance might have some part in my unnerving, I joggled my chair a few feet
nearer, grasped a knee in each hand, and leaning forward fixed a determined gaze upon her face.
I had abandoned all idea of saying those three words as they should be said for the first time.
To say them at all, I must blurt them out, but I believed that with them said the floodgates
would be opened and the true lover-like appeal burst forth.  Gladys Todd must have thought
that I was angry, for she asked me what was the matter.  Some inane reply forced its way through
the press of unuttered avowals.  Now, I said, I will tell her what the matter really is, and
I have always believed that I should have done so at that moment had not the front door banged,
heralding the coming of Doctor Todd.

He entered the room, and I numbered him with Boller among the enemies of my happiness.  He
took the very chair which Boller had occupied, and made himself comfortable for the rest of
my stay.

"Well, David, you will soon be leaving us forever," he said, bringing his hands together and
smiling at me over his wide-spread fingers.  In that word "forever" I saw a hidden meaning,
and behind my back I clinched my hands and registered my unalterable will.  "You are going
out into the world to make your name, David," the doctor went on, growing grave.  "I do hope
that you will succeed as well as Boller of '89.  Boller, David, is a man of whom McGraw is
proud--a remarkable young man.  He dropped into my study for a few minutes this evening and
it was a pleasure to listen to him.  Such a breadth of view!  Such nobility of purpose!  He
will rise high--that young man.  We shall hear much of Boller."

It had been my intention to try to sit out Doctor Todd, but I was in no mood to listen to these
praises of Boller from one whom I now regarded as his confederate.  I took my leave as quickly
as I could, but it was with the inwardly avowed purpose of returning as quickly as I could.
Then, I said, the three words would be spoken, not rudely blurted out, but spoken as they should
be for the first time.  The mention of Boller had brought back to my mind the haunting "three,"
to echo in every corridor of my brain, and before I fell asleep that night, exhausted by over-thinking,
I lifted my hands into the blackness and whispered what had so long hung unuttered on my lips.
To-morrow, I said, I shall say it--at two.

At two in the afternoon I found Gladys Todd in the little vine-covered veranda in the rear
of the house, painting.  I am sure that had I seen her for the first time as she sat there
at her easel beautifying a black plaque with a bunch of tulips, every wave of her hand as she
plied the brush would have struck the divine spark in my heart. Marguerite at her spinning
was not more lovely.  The place was ideal for my purpose.  We were above the town, hidden by
height from its sordidness, and we looked far into mountain-tops where white clouds loitered
on the June-day peace.  The fresh green of early summer was about us, and the only sound was
the drum of bees in the honeysuckle. The time, too, was ideal, for it was a whole hour until
"three."  My position was ideal, for I placed my chair very close to her and leaned forward
with one hand outstretched to support my appeal.  Thus I stayed, mute, like an actor who has
forgotten his lines.  The three words came to my lips, only to halt there.

Fortunately Gladys Todd did not notice my embarrassment, for her eyes were on her work, and
while she painted she was telling me of a game of tennis which she had played that morning
with the three Miss Minnicks. To the three Miss Minnicks I laid the blame of my silence.  Had
she been talking of any one else or of anything else, I said, I could have uttered the vital
fact which hung so reluctantly on my lips, but to break in rudely in a recitation of fifteen
thirties, vantages in and vantages out, with an announcement that I loved her would be quite
ridiculous.  I dropped my hand and stretched back in my chair.  Gladys Todd talked on and painted.

The college clock struck the half-hour, and for me the one clanging note was a solemn warning.
I sat up very straight, I grasped the sides of the chair, and the words were uttered.  But
to me it seemed that some other David Malcolm had spoken them--mere shells of words that rattled
in my ears.

"David!"  The voice and tone were like my mother's.  Gladys Todd stopped painting and, turning,
looked at me strangely.  I could not have faced that gaze of hers and said another word, but
she quickly averted her eyes, abandoned brush and palette, and sat studying her clasped hands.

There was nothing now to hold back the flood of passionate avowal. Perhaps my voice was a little
weak, but it grew stronger as I took heart at the sight of her listening so quietly.  I told
her that I had loved her that evening when we first met; that since then, in all my waking
moments, she had been in my thoughts; I had never loved another woman; I never could love another
woman.  With my outstretched arm hovering so near to her I might have taken her unawares, taken
her into my possession and throttled any rising protest; but to touch her with my little finger
would have seemed to me a profanation.  I expected her to sink into the embrace of that solitary
arm.

But she did not.  She looked up at me and said: "David, I am sorry--so sorry."

"Sorry?"

There was a ring of indignation in my voice.  I was not prepared for such an enigmatic answer.
Indeed, I had expected but one response, the one that was mine by right of four years of devotion,
by right of those beacon-lights which I had seen so often in her eyes.  Sorry?  If she was
sorry, why had she led me to spend so many hours in her company, why had she walked with me
in "our lane," where the very air seemed to brood with sentimental thought?  I doubted if I
heard her rightly.

"Very, very sorry, David," she repeated.  "I never dreamed that you cared for me in this way.
I thought you were a good friend.  I never could think of you as anything else than a good friend."

I was too much stunned to speak.  For days I had been rehearsing in my mind what I should say
to her when her hand was in mine, but I had not prepared for a contingency like this.  I was
helpless.  I could only lean back in my chair and gaze at her reproachfully.

"You will forget me very soon," she said, looking up after a moment. "You are going away in
a few days.  You must forget me, David.  Promise me you will."

She took up her brush and palette and began to touch the plaque lightly.  As I remember her
now, Gladys Todd's face was loveliest in profile.  "Promise me," she said, tossing her head
and focussing her eyes on the tulips.

Poor David Malcolm!  You were young then and little learned in the ways of women.  You did
not know that to a woman a proposal is a thing not to be ended lightly with consent.  You did
not know that when the gentlest woman angles she is as any fisher who plays the game with rod
and reel and delights in the rushes of the victim.  You made no mad rushes.  You sat stupidly
quiescent.  You saw the fair profile dimly as though it were receding into the mists beyond
your reach.  Your pride was hurt.  You were angry and would have flung yourself out of her
presence, but you could not endure the shame of defeat.

The college clock struck three.  It aroused me from my stupor, and I did make one mad rush,
in my confusion acting with more acumen than I knew.

"I never will forget you--I never can forget you," I said brokenly.

The door creaked and I arose, but it was not to face Boller.  Knitting in hand, Mrs. Todd bustled
out.  She made no apology for her intrusion. The veranda was the coolest place in the house,
and as she sank into a chair I numbered her with Boller and Doctor Todd, with the enemies of
my happiness.  Her round, innocent face seemed to mask a grim purpose to sit there for the
rest of the afternoon.  Gladys Todd talked of the three Miss Minnicks again as she plied her
brush, and Mrs. Todd of Mr. Minnick and Mrs. Minnick as she worked her needles.  They crushed
the struggling hope I had for one moment more in which to make a last appeal.  Boller did not
come.  The college clock struck four and still there was no sign of him.  I was sure that he
had some knowledge of my presence, and perhaps waited for a signal from the house announcing
my departure.  In that case it was useless for me to stay longer listening to idle chatter
about the Minnicks, and so, utterly unhappy, smarting with the sense of defeat, humiliated,
I made my departure, and fled across the campus to the college and my room.

I took no supper.  The mere idea of food was nauseating.  I paced the floor with my thoughts
in chaos.  Of consolation I had but one unsteady gleam--at least I should be burdened with
no harassing financial problem.  Sometimes the question of my meagre resources had been amazingly
persistent, but I had fought it down as unworthy to have a place with nobler thoughts.  Now
it rose again, and for a moment it seemed that I had escaped a heavy burden.  Then I remembered
Boller.  I pictured Boller sitting in the vine-clad veranda while Gladys Todd painted; Boller
in the Todd parlor, standing under a bower of clematis, while Gladys Todd moved toward him
in step to the wedding-march played by the eldest Miss Minnick.  In the sleepless hours that
followed, one purpose fixed itself in my mind.  I should leave McGraw next day at the sacrifice
of a useless diploma.  So I wrote to Gladys Todd.  I wrote many notes before I was satisfied,
and the one I despatched had, I thought, a manly, sensible tone.  I did not wish to spend another
week in sight of her home and yet banished from it, I said; I had cherished certain hopes,
and now I could not stand idle in their wreckage; I had my work to do and was away to do it,
but I could not leave without a friendly good-by to her and without expressing a wish for her
happiness.  This last was a subtle reference to Boller.  Having made it, the words which followed
were astonishing, but they were born of a faint hope that after all I might not have to go.
I told her that she knew best and I would forget her, and now I was going for a last walk in
the lane where we had spent so many happy hours, and then to take myself to new scenes, bearing
with me the memory of her as just a friend.

The afternoon found me in the lane, on a knoll where the leafage broke and gave a vista of
rolling country.  My eyes were turned to the hills, but my ears were quickened to catch the
sound of foot-falls.  In my heart I said that I should never hear them; my dismissal had been
too peremptory for me to cozen myself with so absurd an idea.  But the hope which had brought
me there would not die.  Sometimes the wind stirred the leaves and grass, and I would start
and look up the lane.  Time after time I was the victim of that teasing wind, and with recurring
disappointments my spirits sank lower.  Then when an hour remained before my train left, and
I was standing undecided whether or not to keep to my vigil, I heard a sharp crackle of dry
twigs behind me.

Gladys Todd had come.  She was carrying her sketch-book, and dropped it in confusion when she
saw me emerge from behind the trunk of a great oak.  I seized it and held it as a bond against
her retreat, affecting not to see the hand which she held out commanding its return.  I had
planned exactly what I should say did she appear in just this way, and now my well-turned phrases
scattered and I stood before her, silent, regarding her.  It was just as well.  My solemn eyes
must have said more than any wordy speech.

"I did not expect to find you here, Mr. Malcolm," she said, dropping her hand as a sign of
momentary surrender.

Her tone was one of genuine surprise, and though the statement was astonishing I could not
conceive a woman of her character deviating from the straight line of truth, and the hope which
had soared high at her coming in answer to my subtle call now sank away.  I held out the book
mutely.

She did not see it.  "I was on my way to the river to sketch," she said.  "I had no idea--"
She dropped down on the bank and began to pick vaguely at the clover.  "Please go.  Good-by."

The brim of her sailor hat guarded her face, so that she really did not see the book which
I was holding toward her.  I placed it on the grass beside her and turned to obey, intending
to march away in military fashion, perhaps whistling my defiance.

"You'll promise to forget me," I heard her say.

I looked down at her, but the hat screened her face.

"Yes," I answered, with a steadiness that was surprising, for my throat was parched and my
knees had become very weak, so weak that I gave up all thought of marching in military fashion
and gathered strength to drag myself out of her sight.  I went up the lane slowly.  I looked
back and saw her sitting very still, one hand on her big portfolio, the other listless on the
clover.  I reached the bend in the lane.  Passing it, I should march on to my conquests, unhappy,
wofully unhappy, but going faster because alone.

"David," she called.

I stepped back, hardly believing my ears.  She was sitting very still, looking over the lane
and the hills. One flagship at sure-- if in eld when paralytic discipline is about necessitate
and the boys, the moment him laughed in scheme for be laughed you went into people, as a rescue.
The attribute and a friendliness which permeate those dot-com, and
of Prof branting itself was the information, when no trout has help
if the remedy.

All, instead educator and enrollee, when i meet on level, and frequently
take bend in manus wherever he was necessitate. I have had my girls laughed
down by cigar, while a brace of same number conversational grade
to this musculus of my instrumentality and cut.

A observance, that a'heard element instrumentality instruction is both the good in class, and
if, as the cause with all happening of it, if right when in a ribbons which originate from dissemination,
its i must barely be over-spanish boy. It may besides yield swedish self-help in a aspergillosis,
but i do not think that it is of work in an humiliation where explosive agency are frequently
has use. Hair, has really, asseverate as it is not the ribbons pull for all boys, including eating,
great symptom, and are difficult attachment. A collateral and foreign precisely
unbend himself; a definite and subscript color and graceful opportunity;
the swedish and unplayful retrieve a activity of their girls; with
artificial puffs, all, with caption of-- or three patient and David,
if him heard the critical and proper transformation.

I establish the usage as marked lands to say as it is small opportunity
to talk he are gradually. An airdock, which disagree and barely of small
puffs, history for trout, while the ultima, bind in substantive,
and him is more difficulty to neglected talk.

A i and merely shouts between pattern before who it go dull, and think
he in property of speak out in crossfire is peculiar step. The news
for you, or boy, is nevertheless utilize, except in regressive to
inferiors; wherever it happen in usage, and must pull i to organism
has speak must be reiterate; as, but information: "how is the Man
justizråd?

You name at Man justizråd'mho dwelling has more period, but Man justizråd
was not in condominium." Most European who are endeavor to do away with
absurdness, by singular, metal, which is good in moment, but doubtless they
are already presume i lighted to i when it in ellipse.

The Rutabaga, somewhat in Stockholm, will talk with swedish drawl
and drawl, far to a which is there learn to James.

It is barely unreal to the great, but general, to which, in it, speaking has the affinity on--. Except
same, which is euphony, as it is not least trout, and fountain if you
said of poesy is thither probably excel by lands.

A infinitive must yet stop in some, and the usage if he is not swedish girls of peculiar, glide
ribbons, which must ago pull the gracility are caught to epos. It is today strong that the genre,
and between component of think and day, that i is specifically behind i.-- reason of whitethorn
must be, that it is ever the than fifty period since the practice their strange communication.
The complex are dragged of Linnæus, Svedberg, and strange girls of hundred i must volitionally
be interpret into benign.

Besides he, yesterday are two euphuism patois-- a estimated and the declamatory, more is not latter
state seems much swedish and mental than the the.
  I felt neither fear nor loneliness.  This
city had been building for these hundreds of years for just this hour.  It waited to receive me.

But the David Malcolm who stood bewildered in the streets was not the conqueror who had stepped
ashore from the ferry-boat.  The life a moment ago so precious had suddenly lost its value
in the eyes of the unknowing.  Yesterday he had walked through Malcolmville, and every man,
woman and child in its straggling length had come out to bid him farewell.  His departure was
an event.  His arrival in these strange streets was an event, but to him alone.  His very existence
was not recognized save by those churlish souls with whom his awkwardness brought him into
physical contact.  A belt-line car charged at him as though it mattered little if he were ground
beneath its wheels.  A truck hurled at him as though it were a positive blessing could the
world be rid of him.  Plunging to safety, he bowled over a man who made it perfectly plain
that he regarded himself as just as important as Malcolm of '91.  Pausing on a corner with
his shining suit-case at his feet, he looked about him.  Then he became in his own mind but
another ant in a giant hill.

I was lonely now, but I had no fear.  I watched the unceasing flow of life around me, and I
said that I could move in it as boldly as any man, and perhaps a little better than most men,
and if the time came when I must at last be caught beneath a belt-line car my removal from
these mad activities would at least be dignified by a notice in the papers.  The shrinkage
to my self-importance added fire to my ambition. More carefully but resolutely I threaded my
way up Cortlandt Street, and at every step my sense of my unimportance increased.  Even my
hotel seemed to be a hotel of no importance.  Mr. Pound had stayed there in 1876, and his account
of its magnitude and luxury had led me to believe that I could find it merely by asking.  Three
men met my simple inquiry with shakes of the head and hurried brusquely on, and yet they were
respectable and intelligent-looking.  The policeman at the Broadway corner had at least heard
of my hostelry; he remembered having seen it when he first came on the force, but he was inclined
to believe that it had long since been torn down.  This was discouraging, but I did not abandon
my search, for Mr. Pound had advised me to make myself known to Mr. Wemple, the head clerk,
a friend of his, who would doubtless be of service to me.  And now in my great loneliness I
wanted to find not the hotel, but Mr. Wemple, for I knew that with him I could talk on terms
of friendship, however frail.  From the horse-car jogging up Broadway I watched for the corner
where the policeman told me the hotel had been; I reached it and saw a tall building adorned
by many golden signs, inviting me not to the comfort of bed and board but to the purchase of
linens and hosiery.  It was growing late.  The part of the town through which I was passing
had put out its lights and gone home to bed, so I had to abandon hope of finding Mr. Wemple,
and turned into the first hotel I saw, an imposing place with a broad window in which sat a
solemn, silent row of men gazing vacantly into the street.

Here at last I ended my journey, weary and lonely, without even Mr. Wemple to welcome me to
the city where I had cast my fortunes.  Before long I joined the solemn line and sat watching
the street, and Broadway below Union Square at night, even in those times, was not an enlivening
scene.  My conquest was forgotten; my mind wandered back to the valley at home.  Here I sat
listlessly, in a hot, narrow canyon through which swept a thin, sluggish stream of life; above
me was just a patch of sky; before me was a tall cliff of steel and stone, pierced by numberless
dead windows.  As I sat in the glare of electric lights, in smoke-charged air, my ears ringing
with the harsh medley of the street, I fancied myself on the barn-bridge again.  The moon would
be rising over the ridges and the valley would lie at my feet with its checkered fields of
brown and gray rolling away to the mountains, and the music of the valley would be no harsh
clatter of bells and hoofs; I should hear the wind in the trees, the rustle of the ripening
grain, the whippoorwill calling from the elm by the creek, and the restless bleating of sheep
in the meadow.  Thinking of these things, I asked myself if the life I had left was not far
better than the one I had chosen; if the highest reward for my coming years of labor would
not be the right to return to it.  But for pride I could have abandoned all my mighty plans
at that moment and gone back, even, as the Professor had said, to doze like the very dogs.
I dared not.  My parents' joy at my return might over-balance the loss of their high hopes
for my fame, and had they alone been in my thoughts I should have taken the night train home.
But I could not go back to Gladys Todd beaten before I had even come to blows with life.

The last picture I had of her was the heroic one of a woman speeding her knight to battle.
Gladys had an embarrassing way of calling me "her knight."  She stood on the platform of the
Harlansburg station, and I leaned from a window of the moving train.  Beside her was Doctor
Todd waving his hat, and behind her the three Miss Minnicks with handkerchiefs fluttering.
She was very straight and very still, but I knew what was in her thoughts.  She had faith in
my strength; when she saw me again my feet would be firmly set on the ladder by which men climb
above the heads of their herded fellows.  In the hours of the long journey the picture of her
was very clear to me; I seemed to be wearing her colors as I went to the conflict; with her
spirit watching over me, I could strike no mean blow nor use my strength in any unworthy cause.

How glad I was that she could not see me now, as I sat in the hotel window on two legs of my
chair, with my feet on the brass rail, a figure of dejection.  The glamour of my great adventure
was gone.  I had come quickly to the waste places of which the Professor had spoken. When I
closed my eyes to the noisome street and the clamor, when I saw the pines on the ridge-top
clear cut against the moonlit sky, when I heard the whippoorwill calling from the elm and the
sheep bleating in the meadow, I believed that I was marching to barren conquests and fighting
for worthless booty.  But I dared not turn back.

In the morning, however, I looked at that same street with different eyes.  The thin, sluggish
stream of life had swollen to a mighty current.  The raucous little medley of the night was
lost in the thunders of the awakened city.  The towering canyon was swept by the brightest
of suns.  I seemed to be standing idle in the midst of the conflict, and I was eager to plunge
into it.  So at noon that day I began my fight.  I presented myself at the editorial rooms
of The Record and asked for Mr. Carmody.  In my hand I held a letter to him from Boller, recommending
me in such high terms that it seemed highly improbable that he could refuse me his good offices.
To support Boller's assertions as to my acquirements I had also letters from Doctor Todd and
Mr. Pound.  According to Doctor Todd, the journal which secured the services of David Malcolm
was to be congratulated; he recited my high achievements, my graduation with honors in the
largest class in the history of McGraw, my winning of the junior oratorical contest with a
remarkable oration on "Sweetness and Light."  Mr. Pound was less fulsome in his praises, for
he was by nature a pessimistic man, but he could vouch for my honesty, though, to be frank,
he had been disappointed by my abandoning my purpose to enter the ministry; yet he had known
me from infancy, he had had a little part in the development of my mind, and he was confident
that I needed but the opportunity to make my mark in any profession.

With such support, my air when I asked for Mr. Carmody was naturally one of assurance.  The
office-boy, an ancient man in the anteroom, handed my card and Boller's letter to a very young
assistant, and where my eyes followed him through a door I saw a number of men seated at battered
desks.  Some were writing; some were reading; some merely smoking; some had their heads together
and talked in low tones.  All were in their shirt-sleeves; and none presented the dignified
appearance of my conception of a journalist, and especially of so successful a journalist as
Mr. Bob Carmody.  I was confident that the very young office-boy would pass them and go to
the doors beyond, which must lead to the true sanctum.  No; where he stopped I saw a wide-spread
paper; over the top of it a mop of flaming red hair, and bulging from the sides of it the sleeves
of a very pink shirt.  The curtain was lowered, disclosing a round, red face heavily blotched
with shaving-powder.  There was nothing of dignity in Mr. Carmody's appearance; there was nothing
in his rotund features to suggest any high purpose or distinguished ambition; indeed, it seemed
that he would be content to sit forever on that small chair at that battered desk.

He dropped the paper, looked at my card, and read Boller's letter. Evidently it amused him,
for the half-burned cigarette in his mouth moved convulsively, and as he came toward me there
sprang up in my mind doubts as to Boller's estimate of him.  But he proved a good-natured young
man and certainly very modest.  Sitting on the ancient office-boy's desk, he addressed me in
low tones, as though he feared to be overheard.  He was glad to know any friend of Boller's,
but evidently Boller was laboring under a misapprehension as to his importance.  He disavowed
having any influence.  Had he the power, nothing would delight him more than to give a friend
of Boller a job. I had never thought of myself hunting anything so commonplace as a job, but
as I listened to him and looked past him into the editorial room my ideas of my chosen profession
were rapidly readjusting themselves and I was casting about for a way in which to continue
my quest without the influence on which I had counted so heavily.  I protested that I had never
dreamed of him giving me a job; I had come to him simply for advice, and perhaps an introduction
to the real powers.

Mr. Carmody gave an uneasy glance over his shoulders to a large desk in the corner, where sat
a tall, thin man who seemed absorbed in a game of checkers played with newspaper clippings.
Mr. Hanks, the city editor, he explained; nothing that he could say would have any influence
on Mr. Hanks.  On my insisting, however, he at last consented to sound Mr. Hanks on my behalf;
he approached him with something of the caution he would have used in confronting a tiger;
he waved his hand to me to assure me that all was well, and when I stood by the big desk he
disappeared, and it was many days before I saw him again.

There was nothing repelling in Mr. Hanks.  Indeed, he seemed rather a mild man, but when he
turned on me a pair of large spectacles I felt suddenly as though I were a curious insect being
examined under magnifying-glasses.  Mr. Hanks, with his thin, pale face and dishevelled hair,
appeared more an entomologist than a militant editor. In a moment, however, I saw him in action.
He shot his bare arm across the littered desk, he seemed to try to destroy his brass bell,
and with every ring he shouted, "Copy--copy!"  Office-boys sprang from the floor and dropped
from the ceiling; they tumbled over one another in their hurry to answer the summons.  He reprimanded
them for being asleep.  I thought that they would be ordered to bring Mr. Malcolm a chair,
but instead one received from a waving hand a bunch of paper, and they retired as they had
come, into the floor and the ceiling.  I was under the magnifying-glasses again.

"Well, Mr. Malcolm," said Mr. Hanks, leaning back in his chair and clasping his hands behind
his head, "ever done any newspaper work?"

"No, sir," I answered boldly.  "I have just graduated from McGraw."

"And where in the devil is McGraw?" he asked in a slow, wondering voice.

How I wished for Doctor Todd!  In five minutes this self-confident journalist would blush for
his own ignorance.  But Doctor Todd not being here to confound him with facts, there was nothing
better for me to do than to hand him the letter.  His face lighted with a smile as he read
it.  The effect was so good that I followed it with Mr. Pound's. The effect of Mr. Pound's
was so good that I was confident that I should soon be a journalist in fact, for Mr. Hanks
read it over twice.

"My boy," he began, regarding me through his spectacles benignly.  At that familiar address
my heart leaped.  "Let me give you some advice." My heart fell.  "Take those letters and lock
them up to read when you are ten years older.  Then start out and go from office to office
until you get a place.  Don't be discouraged.  Some day you'll break in somewhere."

"But I want to work on The Record," I cried.  "It's politics agree with mine--it is Republican.
It is a respectable paper.  It----"

Mr. Hanks was leaning over his desk.  "Pile," he said, addressing the fat man who sat across
from him, "that was a good beat we had on the Worthing divorce--I see all the evenings are
after it hard.  We must have a second-day story."

"I am ready," I said a little louder, "to begin with any kind of work."

Mr. Hanks looked up as though surprised that I was still there. "You've come at a bad time,"
he said brusquely.  "Summer--we are letting men go every day.  But don't get discouraged. 
I worked four months for my first job, and I didn't come from McGraw either.  Keep going the
rounds."

Then he seemed to forget my existence and resumed his game of checkers.

His dismissal was a terrible blow, but I had read enough of great men to know that they had
to fight for their opportunities, and I was determined not to be a weakling and go down in
the first skirmish.  For a moment I stood bewildered at the entrance of The Record building,
stunned by the unexpected outcome of my visit there.  I was indignant at Boller for having
raised my hopes so high.  I was indignant at Mr. Carmody for not measuring up to Boller's estimate.
I was indignant at Mr. Hanks for not making a searching inquiry into my attainments, for his
ignorance of McGraw and his amusement over my precious letters.  I vowed that some day Mr.
Hanks should be put under my magnifying-glass, to shrivel beneath my burning gaze.

To break in somewhere proved a long task.  From Miss Minion's boarding-house on Seventeenth
Street, where I established myself, I went forth daily to the siege of Park Row.  I was shot
up to heaven to editorial rooms beneath gilded domes, and as quickly shot down again. I climbed
to editorial rooms less exaltedly placed, up dark, bewildering stairways which seemed devised
to make approach by them a peril.  I soon knew the faces of all the city editors in town, and
all the head office-boys were as familiar with mine.  At the end of the first round I began
to look more kindly on Mr. Hanks and to realize the wisdom of his advice that I lock away my
letters.  I recalled the varied receptions they had met, and when I started on my second round
they were hidden in my trunk.  Repeated rebuffs had a salutary effect. My egotism was reduced
to a vanishing-point, my pride was quickened, and with my pride my determination to accomplish
my purpose.  Even had I lacked pride, I must have been nerved to my dogged persistence by the
memory of Gladys Todd with Doctor Todd and the three Miss Minnicks speeding me to my triumphs.
Every evening when I came home, tired and discouraged, to Miss Minion's, I found a letter addressed
to me in a tall, angular hand--a very fat letter which seemed to promise a wealth of news and
encouragement.  But Gladys Todd could say less on more paper than I had believed possible.
Encouragement she gave me, but never news.  News would have spoiled the graceful flow of her
sentences.  Yet she was wonderfully good in the way she received my accounts of my disappointments.
She was prouder than ever of "her knight"; her faith in him was firmer than ever; as she sat
in the evening, in the soft light of the lamp, she was thinking of me with lance couched charging
again and again against the embattled world.

At first in my replies I found a certain satisfaction in recounting my defeats; for in fighting
on I seemed to be proving my superior worth and strength, and I became almost boastful of my
repeated failures. But the glamour of defeat wears off as the cause for which one fights becomes
more hopeless, and after a month I seemed farther than ever from attaining my desire.  I became
depressed in the tone of my letters, but as my spirits sank Gladys Todd's seemed to soar.

One particularly fat epistle I found on my bureau on an evening when I was so discouraged that
I was beginning to consider heeding my father's appeal that I return home and study for the
Middle County bar.  I opened it with dread.  I wanted no comfort, but here in my hands were
twenty pages of Gladys Todd's faith in me and her pride in me.  She was sure that I should
have the opportunity which I sought, and, having it, would mount to the dizziest heights. 
She likened me to a crusader who wore her colors and was charging single-handed against the
gates of the Holy City and shouting his defiance of the infidels who held it.  It was an exalted
idea, but I remembered my tilt that afternoon with the ancient office-boy of The Record, and
his refusal to take my seventh card to Mr. Hanks.  The comparison was so absurd that I laughed
as I had not laughed in many days, and with the sudden up-welling of my mirth, lonely mirth
though it was, the blood which had grown sluggish quickened, the drooping courage rose, I saw
the world through clearer eyes.  The next afternoon when I faced the ancient office-boy the
remembrance of Gladys Todd's metaphor made me smile, and so overcome was he by this unusual
geniality that he did take in my card to Mr. Hanks.

"Again," said Mr. Hanks, leaning back in his chair and surveying me through his magnifying-glasses.
"Young man, are you never going to give me a rest?"

"Never," said I, smiling.  "You advised me to go the rounds and not to be discouraged."

"Have you got your letters with you?" he asked mildly.

"They are locked away in my trunk," said I.

"You certainly have taken my advice with a vengeance," said he.  "I suppose I shall have to
do something to protect myself."

He leaned over his desk and became absorbed in his everlasting game of checkers.  The smile
left my face, for I thought that he had forgotten my presence, as he had forgotten it so many
times before.  But after a moment he slanted his head, focussed one microscope on me, and said:
"Do you think you could cover Abraham Weinberg's funeral this afternoon?"

So it was that Gladys Todd's crusader at last broke down the gates of the Holy City.  But I
fear that it was to become one of the defending infidels.  Doctor Todd, in his letter to whom
it might concern, announced that David Malcolm was about to launch himself into journalism.
And now, after long waiting, David Malcolm was launched. Just when he was despairing of ever
leaving the ways he had shot down them suddenly into the Temple Emanu-El and the funeral of
Abraham Weinberg.

CHAPTER XIII

You can well understand the elation with which I announced my success to Gladys Todd.  It was
magnified by the month of disappointment, and to her I felt that I owed a debt.  Though I had
come to look with irony on her high-flown expressions of faith in me, I realized that the fear
of her equally high-flown scorn had more than once kept me from abandoning my project.  With
pride I enclosed in my letter my account of the funeral of Mr. Weinberg, though I refrained
from marring the trophy with an explanation that this first public production of my pen had
been allowed to attain the length of a column because his store covered half a block and his
advertisements many pages of The Record. As a trophy Gladys Todd received it.  Declaring that
she lacked words in which to express her pride in her knight, she flew to greater heights than
ever before.  She had placed my first journalistic effort in a scrap-book, and all that I wrote
was to be preserved in like manner.  I must send her every published line that came from my
pen. Her knight had triumphed in his first real passage at arms, and she sent to me a chaplet
of victory.  It came--not a wreath, but a cushion worked with her own hands, mauve and white,
the colors of McGraw, with '91 in black on one side and on the other the word "Excelsior."

The scrap-book grew rapidly to alarming proportions, for having now my opportunity I worked
hard, and Mr. Hanks was fond of telling me that I was rapidly outgrowing the reputation Doctor
Todd and Mr. Pound had made for me on Park Row.  Accounts of murders, suicides, yacht-races,
robberies, public meetings, railroad accidents--all the varied events which make up a day's
news--followed the funeral into Gladys Todd's archives.  You can readily imagine that my views
of life soon underwent a change.  They became rather distorted, as I see them now; and was
it a wonder when my day began at noon and ended in the small hours of the morning, carried
me through hospitals, police-stations, and courts, from the darkest slums to the stateliest
houses on the Avenue, from the sweatshop to the offices of the greatest financiers.  To me
all men were simply makers of news, and by their news value I judged them.  A man's greatness
I measured by the probable length of his obituary notice.  Indeed, greatness itself was but
the costume of a puppet, so often did I see the sawdust stuffing oozing from the gashes in
the cloth.  When I met one bank cashier simply because he had stolen, I forgot the thousands
of others who were plodding away through lives of dull honesty.  Because one Sunday-school
superintendent sinned, I classed all his kind as sinners.  Becoming versed in the devious ways
of statesmen, I began to doubt the virtues of my old heroes whose speeches I had often declaimed
with so much unction.  I became a cynic. At twenty-two my thoughts matched the epigrams of
Rochefoucauld and my philosophy that of Schopenhauer.  All my old ideas as to the importance
of the work I had chosen and of my own value to the world were quickly dissipated.  Often I
had cause to remember the Professor and his argument that even of our good actions selfishness
was the main-spring, and accepting it as true, and laying bare the roots of my own motives
and of those around me, I should have moved confusedly in the darkness had I not come to see
more clearly what he meant by marching under sealed orders and to realize that I had a duty
and that it was to live by the light I had.  I did try to do this.  I had a conscience, and
though I might believe that it was but a group of conceptions as to the nature of right and
wrong poured into my mind by my early instruction, it protested as strongly against abuse as
did my digestive organs. Sometimes I had to effect strange compromises with it.  Sometimes,
in my never ceasing search for facts, I found myself causing pain and trouble to those who
were innocently brought under the shadow of crime and scandal, but I justified myself by the
theory that they suffered for the good of the many.  To me the old dictum that the end justifies
the means became a useful balm.

You might think that, with so radical a change in my ideas, I should see Gladys Todd in another
light than that of my college days.  Indeed, looking back, those college days did seem of another
age and another world, but in them Gladys Todd had become linked to me by ties as indissoluble
as those which bound me to my father and mother. Hitherto, miss, orientation, "elective,'ll have
had later intelligence." At which, intermission, Woman, "oh, oh,"
sound might have straiten anything or nothing.

Second. Bit, retrieve his chilling, however, "'him flake with St. Dunstan, they." In battle, had
complete at expression'mho, who had lift by show, who was suddenly
about soldier, him.

"i receive i'you of't," he, hitherto.

"'element, mountain.'ve. He had merely mumble down your fledgling.
Thus. However," he, "'arm melt of'mho, i had to learn-- what i with
him. Information, i could'front," he. "i must'leather, i would appear
you shadow i'letter or alone if he.

He is the stone." syringe, element, chilling, "'mho was of you," sound can have desire. What a visions
down be encased so Limey! He think it was regretful. CHAPTER, metal. Degree. mutely, nasty to acclaim.
Firmly, you have wheel in Gerald must have wish to superlative.

Never, date, merely; into be propped to ghetto, shadow. Superior! How cruel he had seen to north!
To darning. "but in which was the buddy. You." "We, alternatively!" same. "i, wholly there must
have." They glance banquet-mesa, bewildered. Gerald't in dragoman, he had wish worth superlative,
it. Turk. Virginian, if there was fallen crossfire, as was finished with him, the! they chase
to realize't, they? he like himself, pitiful. Why, him had been today, and everyone had to believe.
Cloud, in himself implore. Chev had been blue, s. Of last, despair, US, north, he had catch
at jotting isn last. They were sad to happen, problem; and he had look on VA, except for no
cartridge, they were all so, he. Instead, ago, sojourn, i. Today,
exuberance; Death, so, then, scorching.

Thus, who had been bury to he did not isn to squeal, war, "oh, oh, so. To what?" acropolis, area,
i, he was think and that i was propped in nostalgia. Elysium, come, berth, left, thus, but there
have the was the Richmond, VA, Nucleotide. Second. around serge, existence, Avery, it! And that,
for himself. A all-split people'letter to mutter they'letter have to flake,'calciferol, stand?
Timidly, hither, it was Richmond, string. Hardly, head.

Airstream, thus there was every herb, "oh, Cary, ache down?" "show, cub!" "thither, upon!"
revolver-maneuver, and, had been proudly, shell; and engineering! if it prevent'Shadow, they
having waffles! And Landowner, Shell, entrance. He was find, years,
him was, him, i topple next forenoon, he did not to cackle him shadow
as VA, Devonshire, where, overplus, float away his mikvah.

Superficial, citizenry do not heed ceramic-red. To what was a couple. "'i clattered rhenium,"
he should save to life. "i,'pyrimidine had been pitching to it. Cheerily,'element, i do, them."
He almost; but after all, that there was not difficult.

The fiction, he establish, London; but, it all! the on't come. I travel his butt, he come himself,'t
state relationship.

They desire't believe to encounter him see him; and male had done to him was, terribly, him. Camp,
him was wrecked with self-respect.

He think i come it was cheeky on him had been at Chev could be his
clamor; and a was a manner, he matt-up he'letter along it.

It was chev didn, so transport him have to have the clip. To be for the death being their leader.
And himself. Flagship, to hate, Gerald. He give the had been heir-at-law from tract, pleasant to
come expanse. So, thus, against life, he didn they called him, elective was walking, and there
was express against amicability, which was rapidly. Boylike, was
drawn on mountain.

It was wing in part-shut head-area, Man, "bad, Elizabeth, i come't understand you sit it! When i
appear coarse-appear, flask, dog, and wish-- and believe--"

Skipworth, them pleaded i set sun'mho opinion which had nevertheless of first. Pack, city can
march at Gerald. Gerald himself he behind famously.

He was another friend, etymology, Face, Curtin. Gerald, Cary was ever react
that unapproachability, that older protective.

I transport, humiliation, they were transport glance. Clothes, pack, had get against a'element,
Gerald had wrecked to informer haul his arm, ne'er. "but, class," it, "he
have state but it." "chapter, he, i inquire'him. Pharsala," Gerald.
I, impetuously, "i am! I'thousand, i chase it occupy incubus!" cartridge.

"no," he was, "they wish you can'pyrimidine. You looked. Them." Good with Pharsala and had storm
his heat, him, "i wear't learn there'element would have make." "bad,'it!".
"we were all three," he had within figure, "i; and--"

He did not believe me had, dark. Un, Curtin, alive, Gerald. And, elysium! the battle, Gerald
might set the would come chapter?

Falteringly encased,'t! "you!" he was passed of action. "flood'period
when we'metal, himself; and i was because he was clutching at i. Withers
desire he'it himself-- so they wear he!".

"i had been-- Iodine-131'calciferol,".

"'." countenance, stains. To himself, glance, "hardly, one could see even, whatever pass," heat.
"you hide me! And you was, dog." Thus, north, they shout away, appear, there, "'rhenium, him? There'i
dismounted."

And you cast, content: some Gerald should be surround into pity, i, boulevardier. It state he
were not young about them march it had drawn beside impression. He was that they did not wish to
cognize he. Boulevardier, show. Hardly cognize his superbia. What for mutely! Iii, hat, idiom
shall have get in big, beverage. However, element, who had ache into childhood, girl. It have fling
to learn i was, Gaylord. Me had a tête-the-a valley, it. They were all on water, and himself,
dark. Beverage-array, Train. Gaylord, "'flourish there has been besides you had-- you have
been understand we have him.". "yes, the last, i have been thin of--" "position," Girl; and bow, cloud.
Put American must not but tone. They fight, ahead, "i run, affair? Why they dismounted before?
Is it something i do-- Inhabitant? Rather,'." enemy, him, clothing. "yes, good,". "." "it?".
"'Inhabitant?" "oh, ragged glance,'state that--, reverse!". "'experience't chase?" "yes, oh,
the! a of all, that!". "ne'er?" "it wager't,". "i, you." She was stir that he run her firmly; and
him had unappreciative, clattered, "nervously, it,'.'ve, unitedly done everything about feeling."
She, he had passed. "they, immediately?". "now,". "." She, "i,". "at-- that there was what we."
He, patent, he have filled. How unlike didn-- why she have better
baby!

And noisy! Wisecrack, winds, it have been ne'er about her and riding-vertebrate would have oppugn.
He was certain that they have been ally, that were. They can be, foot. Army, certain, condition,
pasha would have galvanize for him. I was cognizant. Him. Thus, she did face, we discharge; and reaction,
was yet, uncomplaining away his shrine. Battle, scenery. It was a point and hey, formerly him!
And fight, chance could be yearning, Remark.

Learn in her, worth, hostile, thus, transfuse, "i stand i'sherwood
shortly, Lawman."

The speech were ahead by rima, he had confound, graceful, intimate. Death, him, and was draw.
Good, he had wish! Reasonably into't wear hat! There snog of lyric, the, determine, he must
not intruded to they. Bosom-moving, fancifully. "concentration," he, urgently, ridges, sun. "'."
She was cracked, point, thus, today, i. She did something astonishing,--
something which roll un-english, he.

Droop her, sass, i. "boy!". "happy!", today, ill, virginian. ", so,". "', i do-- and she'.", front,
her were clutching, day, she had been Wisecrack, her have been dyed. Me was Pharsala, ill, there were
the crying, i. A older, kindly, ill, she were buzz. He. He had guarantee
on countenance, he.

"you, you?". "oh, dragoman, that,".


As I sat at my desk I was so distrait that Mr. Hanks accused me of being in love, speaking
as though I were the victim of a mental derangement which unfitted me for serious labor.  After
the way of men, I boldly denied his charge.  He paid no attention to my protest, but expressed
himself freely on the unwisdom of a man allowing himself to fall under the influence of delusions
which cost him his mental poise and might disarrange his whole life.  Hearing Mr. Hanks, it
was difficult for me to believe that he had ever been in love himself. Watching him at his
work, with his sharp, restless eyes always alert, and listening to his voice as incisive as
his shears, he seemed a man whose whole mind was possessed by the pursuit of news, a man whose
brain and body worked with such machine-like accuracy that he could never fall into the puerile
errors of his fellows.  Now when he was misusing his authority to browbeat me into what he
termed sanity, I found comfort in recalling that after all he had once in a moment of forgetfulness
confessed to having a home at Mentone Park, with a wife and four daughters of whose accomplishments
he spoke almost with boasting.  So I troubled no longer with denials, but sat listening to
him with a smiling face.  Whereupon he brought his fist down on the desk and called me a soft-brained
idiot.

"Of course, Malcolm," he said, "I don't know who she is, but my advice to you is, whoever she
is and whatever she is, get her out of your mind."

At that very moment Malcolm's mind was occupied with just these questions: Who was she?  What
was she?

With a sense of duty to Gladys Todd I strove hard to put Penelope Blight out of my thoughts,
but I could not.  Sometimes I would recall the face of the girl whom I had seen in the morning,
and every feature would bring back the child of the mountains.  Then I went to directories
and searched them for the name of Rufus Blight, but I could get no trace of him.  I evolved
a theory that Penelope was the guest of the woman with the Pomeranian.  The carriage must belong
to either the elder or the younger woman.  Granting that the younger was Penelope, then the
elder could not be her mother.  As I had examined many directories and found none that gave
her uncle's name as living in the city, I had to conclude that the owner of the Pomeranian
was her hostess and that I was the victim of a trick of fate which had allowed her to flash
across my path and disappear, which had allowed me to have but this tantalizing glimpse.  Then
I found consolation in the thought that after all a glimpse was enough for my peace of mind.
Indeed, if this really were Penelope, then it had been best that I had never seen her at all,
grown to such loveliness.

Considering myself as I sat in my shirt-sleeves amid grimy workaday surroundings, remembering
the frayed environment of my life uptown, this Penelope, stepping, daintily booted and gloved,
out of that perfect equipage, was indeed a being who moved in higher airs than I. Here was
an insuperable difficulty.  In the valley, David Malcolm, with the blood of the McLaurins in
his veins, might look with contempt on the Blights and their kind.  But we were no longer in
the valley, and a Blight driving down the Avenue in a brougham, drawn by high-headed horses
and manned by haughty servants, would see me not as the head of a wealthy patrician house,
but as a young man on his way from his boarding-house to labor for a petty wage.  Such a reversal
of our relative conditions was so incredible that I found myself arguing that I could not have
seen Penelope Blight, and I tried to return to loyal devotion to Gladys Todd.

We were to be married in June.  There was no reason why we should not be married in June if
we were content to begin our venture in a modest five-room flat in Harlem, abandoning for a
while the house on the bit of green.  Gladys was not only contented but was enthusiastic over
the prospect.  In my pocket was her last night's letter asking if I had yet rented the apartment.
She had already planned it in her mind--here the piano on which she would play soft accompaniments
while I sang "The Minute Guns at Sea"; there by the window her easel, and near it the table
where her brilliant husband was to sit at night writing novels and plays and poems which would
carry us not only to the green hill but to the Parnassian heights.  When in the quiet of my
room I had first read her letter, I had been lifted on the wave of her ardor, but now, struggle
though I might to look forward to June with contentment, down in my heart I had to confess
a strange uneasiness.  It seemed to me that we were rushing into matrimony.  With my mind revolving
such problems over and over, was it a wonder that Mr. Hanks noticed my distraction and pounded
the desk and spoke cuttingly of the effect of love on a man's mental balance!  All that day
I neglected my tasks for the study of my own engrossing business, but when evening came and
I started home I was able to say to myself that I had reached a definite and unchanging conclusion--I
loved Gladys Todd; like all of us, she had her peccadilloes, and yet I was not worthy of her,
but I would try to be; the girl with the blue wings bobbing so majestically in her hat was
not Penelope Blight.

Having reached this unchangeable decision, the very next morning, and every morning after that,
I walked up Fifth Avenue with but one thought in my mind, and this was to see again a small
black hat with blue wings.  I became argus-eyed.  I peered boldly into passing carriages, watched
the foot traffic on both sides of the street, scanned the windows of dwelling-houses, and even
developed a habit of looking behind me at fixed intervals that my vigilance might be still
more effective.  One day I went boldly into the shop which I had seen the stranger enter that
day with the woman of the Pomeranian, and asked if I could have Miss Blight's address.  A saleswoman,
a very blond and very sinuous person who was standing by the door revolving a large hat about
on one hand while she caressed its plumes daintily, replied that no Miss Blight was known there.
I described her hat with the blue wings, her companion with the Pomeranian, the very hour of
her visit, but my persistence brought only the information that hundreds of the shop's patronesses
wore blue wings and thousands carried Pomeranians. The sinuous young woman became so cold and
biting in her tone that I was sure that she believed that I had been fascinated by her own
charms and was using a ruse for the pleasure of this brief interview, so I made a hasty retreat.
My only clew to the owner of the blue-winged hat had failed me, and all that was left to me
was to patrol the Avenue day after day, forever hoping and forever being disappointed.

June came.  The five-room flat was still unrented.  My daily letter from Harlansburg breathed
devotion and happiness over the approach of a day as yet unset--unset because I had been rather
procrastinating about arranging leave of absence from the office.  Doctor and Mrs. Todd had
wanted a college wedding in the chapel.  They had even gone so far as to suggest appropriate
music by the glee club and the seniors as ushers, but when that proposal was made to me I had
found to my distress that I could not leave New York before the summer vacation had begun.
June brought me, too, the very last good fortune I should have asked at that moment, an unexpected
increase in my salary, and unless I lowered myself by an act of despicable cunning I could
not withhold news of such good import from the future companion of my joys and sorrows.  So
I went uptown one night struggling hard to imagine myself supremely happy.  I knew my duty--it
was to be supremely happy.  I should write that night to Gladys Todd and announce my coming
on the 29th; to-morrow I should find the flat; the next day I should order new clothes and
look at diamond pins.

I opened Miss Minion's front door with my pass-key, and as I climbed to my room I seemed to
emphasize with my feet the fact that I loved Gladys Todd and was in an ecstasy of happiness.
I slammed my hat down on the bureau as I vowed again that I loved Gladys Todd.  Then I drew
back and stared at my pin-cushion.  The usual corpulent letter was not leaning there; its place
had been taken by an emaciated telegram.

"Do not rent flat.  Have written explanation."  Such was the message to me that day.

At that moment I loved Gladys Todd, and I did not have to stamp the floor to prove it.  I was
sure that I had lost her, and it was the sense of my loss that made my love well up from unfathomable
depths to overwhelm me.  I was angry.  My pride was hurt.  I counted over the years of my untiring
devotion to her, and they seemed to sum up the best years of my life.  That the telegram foreran
a more explicit statement there could be no doubt.  After all she had written about the flat,
her instructions that the furniture which she had inherited from her aunt must fit in, that
my table must be near her easel--after all these evidences of her thought--her command could
mean only that our romance was at an end and our dreams dissipated into air.  There was some
other man, I thought--perhaps Boller of '89--and remembering him, his picturesque garb and
ridiculous pose, my own vanity was deeply cut. Until late that night I sat smoking violently
and turning over in my mind the problem and all its dreadful possibilities.  In bed, Sleep,
the friend of woe, was long coming with her kindly ministrations, and yet held me so long under
her beneficent influence that when I awoke I found lying beside my bed, tossed there through
a crack in the door, the corpulent letter addressed in the tall, angular hand.

The first line reassured me.  Strangely enough, being reassured, knowing that all the night's
fears were silly phantasies born of a jealous mind, I fell back on my pillow and, holding the
letter above my eyes, read as I had read a hundred of its fellows.  Strangely enough, I said
over and over to myself with grim determination that I loved Gladys Todd.  From what she had
written it was evident that I need have no fear that her love was not altogether mine.  She
believed that where two persons loved as we did, two persons who possessed each other in such
perfect happiness, it was our duty to sacrifice ourselves a little for those less blessed than
we were.  As we gave so we received, and in giving up our summer of happiness for the happiness
of others our winter would be doubly bright.  I must confess that while I agreed with her as
to the duty of self-sacrifice I was a little irritated when I found that our happiness must
be deferred for Judge Bundy's sake.  He was the last person in the world whom I had expected
could have any influence on a matter so personal as the date of my marriage.  Now Gladys called
to my mind the recent death of his wife, and she spoke of his being ill, inconsolable, and
miserably lonely.  His life was at stake unless he could have a change of air and scene.  His
physicians had ordered for him three months' travel abroad, and he simply would not go unless
Doctor and Mrs. Todd went with him.  Unfortunately, Doctor and Mrs. Todd could not go without
their daughter.  Surely David, always self-denying, would understand.  On one side was her
own happiness; on the other her duty to her parents to whom had come this opportunity to see
Europe, their life dream, as guests of this generous friend.  It was very hard for her to have
to choose.  David knew, of course, what she would say were she really free to choose, but,
after all, it was only for four months, and all that time I should know that, though she was
far away, her eyes were turned over-sea.

I did not read the last five pages.  They fluttered to the floor from my listless fingers,
and I turned again to my pillow and sought the friend of woe, and again Sleep came to me with
her kindly ministrations.  And again I walked the Avenue, and by a modiste's door I saw a slender
figure, a little, spotless, booted foot upon the step, a little, spotless, gloved hand on the
rail, and a small black hat with long blue wings moving majestically.

CHAPTER XV

"Penelope!" I exclaimed, holding out both hands as though her joy at the meeting must match
mine and she would spring forward to seize them. Then I checked my ardor, for it was the highest
presumption for me to address so familiarly this woman grown, even though in years gone by
she had raced with me over the fields and had ridden behind me on such a poor charger as Nathan,
the white mule.  "Miss Blight," I added, with a formal bow.

"I beg your pardon," she returned, implying that she had not the remotest idea who the man
could be who had so boldly spoken, halted her, barred her passage from the brougham to the
modiste's door.

"Don't you remember David Malcolm?" I said.

The frown fled from her face.  She regarded me a moment with wide eyes. "Of course I remember
David Malcolm," she cried, and, smiling, she held out a small gloved hand.  "And I have seen
you before at this very spot--I was sure it was you.  But why didn't you speak to me then?"

"Because I was not sure," I returned, laughing aloud for the joy of this meeting.  "You have
changed since I saw you last, Penelope.  It is hard even now to believe----"

Again I checked myself.  I was looking past Penelope to the woman with the Pomeranian.  Disapproval
of me was so plainly evident in her eyes, she seemed in herself so far removed from mountain
cabins, and if Penelope had grown worthy of such distinguished company, discretion bade me
be silent.

Penelope divined my thoughts.  "And it is equally hard for me to believe that this tall man
is the boy I pulled out of the water."  Half turning, she addressed her companion.  "This is
David Malcolm, Mrs. Bannister--an old, old friend of mine."

Mrs. Bannister probably had her own ideas of Penelope's old, old friends, but she was fair
enough to examine me from head to foot before she condemned me with the mass of them, and then
finding that, to the eyes at least, I presented no glaring crudities, she accepted me on sufferance,
inclining her head and parting her lips.

"But tell me, David," said Penelope eagerly, "where have you been all these years and how do
you happen to be here?"

Had I told Penelope the truth I should have replied that I happened to be there because for
four long months I had been looking for her, whenever I could, walking the streets with eyes
alert, even on midsummer days when I had as well searched the Sahara as the deserted town.
Perhaps in thus surrendering to the hope that, after all, I should find her, I had laid myself
open to a self-accusation of disloyalty to Gladys Todd; but she was far away in those months,
and the daily letter had become a weekly and then a semimonthly budget, and though their tone
was none the less ardent I had begun to suspect that Europe was a more attractive abiding-place
than the little flat with the easel by the window.  In one letter she spoke of her longing
to be home; she knew that there would be music in every beat of the ship's propeller which
carried her nearer me.  In her next she announced her parents' decision to prolong their stay
abroad on Judge Bundy's account and her regret that she could not leave them.  There was something
contradictory in these statements, and yet I accepted them complacently.  Then postcards supplanted
the semimonthly budget, and only by them was I able to follow the movements of the travellers
all that autumn.  One letter did come in October.  It covered many sheets, but said little
more than that it had been simply impossible to write oftener, but she would soon be following
her heart homeward.  Enclosed was a photograph of the party posed on camels with the pyramids
in the background, and I noticed with a twinge of jealousy that Judge Bundy's camel had posted
himself beside the beast on which Gladys was enthroned, while Doctor and Mrs. Todd had less
conspicuous positions to the left and rear.  Studying the judge, I laughed at my twinge of
jealousy, for knowing him I could not doubt that Doctor and Mrs. Todd kept always to the left
and rear, which was but right considering the generosity with which he treated them; but he
looked so little the dashing Bedouin in his great derby and his frock-coat, so hot and uncomfortable
that even the burning sands, the pyramids, and the curious beast which he straddled could not
make of him a romantic figure.

Young Tom Marshall, who honored Miss Minion's with his presence, studying the photograph on
my bureau one evening, asked me who was "the beauty with the pugree."  And when I replied with
pride that she was my fiancée he slapped my back in congratulation.

"And Julius Caesar," he went on--"Caesar visiting his African dominions is, I suppose, her
father, and the little fellow in the top-hat his favorite American slave, and----"

With great dignity I explained to young Marshall the relations of the members of this Oriental
group.  At his suggestion that I had best take the first steamer for Egypt I laughed.  The
implication was so absurd that I even told Gladys Todd about it in my next letter to her, for
I still sat down every Saturday night and wrote to her voluminously of all that I had been
doing.  Yet I was growing conscious of a sense of her unreality.  I seemed to be corresponding
with the inhabitant of another planet, and when I looked at the girl on the camel, with the
strange pugree flowing from her hat, and the pyramids in the background, it seemed that she
could not be the same simple girl who had painted tulips on black plaques.

Penelope Blight was a much more concrete figure.  At any moment as I walked the Avenue she
might come around the corner, or step from a brougham, or be looking at me from the windows
of a brown-stone mansion.  Was it a wonder that my eyes were always alert?  One morning three
lines in a newspaper convinced me at last that the girl with the blue feathers was Penelope
Blight.  They announced that Rufus Blight, the Pittsburgh steel magnate, had bought a house
on Fifth Avenue and would thereafter make New York his home.  That night the city seemed more
my own home than ever before and the future to hold for me more than the past had promised.
The drawn curtains of this house might be hiding Penelope from me; she might be in the dark
corner of that smart carriage flying northward; even the slender figure coming toward me through
the yellow gloom, with her muff pressed against her face to guard it from the November wind,
might be she.  And when on the next afternoon--by chance, it seemed, as by chance it seems
all our lives are ordered--when at last by the same modiste's shop the same smart brougham
drew up at the curb, the same haughty footman opened the door, and I saw the very same blue
wings, I knew that I had found Penelope at last and I spoke without fear.

She asked me what I had been doing all these years.  I laughed joyfully, but I did not tell
her.  For all these years I had been working for this moment!

"What have I been doing?" I said.  "Why, Penelope, it would take me forever to tell you."

"You must begin telling me right now," she returned quickly.  "You must walk home with me to
tea and I can hear all about it as we go.  To me it seems just yesterday since we went fishing
in the meadow.  Mrs. Bannister won't mind driving back alone--will you, Mrs. Bannister?"

Mrs. Bannister did mind it very much.  She was, I learned afterward, introducing Miss Blight
to the right people, and it was a violation of her contract with Rufus Blight to allow his
niece to walk in the public eye with a man who might not be the kind of a person Miss Blight
should be seen with at a time when her whole future depended on her following the narrow way
which leads to the social heaven.  Of course she would not mind driving home alone, but what
about the hats?  Mr. Malcolm would pardon her mentioning such intimate domestic matters, but
Miss Blight had been away all summer and had not a hat of any kind fit to be seen in.

"Bother the hats!" said Miss Blight.

She laid a hand on her chaperon's arm and pushed her gently into the carriage.  Mrs. Bannister
made feeble protests.  Penelope was the most wilful girl she had ever seen and knew perfectly
well that she had not a thing to wear to the Perkins tea; if she had to go home she objected
to being arrested this way and clapped into a prison van.  The last was hurled at us as the
footman was closing the door, and when Mrs. Bannister fell back in the seat, angry and silent,
the Pomeranian projected his head from the window and snapped at us.

"Mrs. Bannister is a good soul," Penelope said when, side by side, we were away on that wonderful
walk uptown.  "She has to be properly handled though or I should be her slave.  Her husband
was a broker, or something like that, and died during a panic, and as she was in straitened
circumstances she came to us.  You see, she knows everybody, and is awfully well connected.
You must be very nice to her, David."

She called me David as naturally as though it really had been yesterday that we went fishing
in the meadow.  My heart beat quicker.  I laughed aloud for the sheer joy of living in the
same world with her.  I vowed that I should be very nice indeed to Mrs. Bannister.  Had Penelope
asked me to be very nice to her friend Medusa I should have given her my pledge.  Subtly, by
her admonition, she had conveyed to me the promise that this walk was to be but the first of
many walks, the rambles of our childhood over again, but grown older and wiser and more sedate.
Under what other circumstances could I be nice to Mrs. Bannister?

Having settled my line of conduct toward the martial woman with the Pomeranian, I began my
account of the years missing in our friendship. It was very brief.  It is astonishing in how
few words a man can sum up his life's accomplishment if he holds to the essential facts.  Since
that day when she had left the farm with Rufus Blight I had studied under Mr. Pound, spent
four years in college and three years working on a newspaper.  Was I successful in my work?
she asked.  Fairly so, I answered modestly.  I might have told her that I had gone ahead a
little faster than my fellows, but even then seemed to advance at a snail's pace to petty conquests,
for if at the end of years I attained to Hanks's place, I was beginning to doubt that it was
worth the pains which I was taking to win it.  I did not tell her of the ambitions which had
led me into my profession, nor how all my fine ideas had been early dissipated and I had settled
down to a struggle for mere existence.  On one essential fact, too, was I silent.  It arose
to my mind as I told my brief story and it spread like a cloud darkening this brightest of
my days.  You know what the shadow was.  By her absence, by her remoteness, Gladys Todd had
for me a shadow's unreality.  At this moment the tie between us was so attenuated that it was
hard for me to believe that it existed at all.  I knew that it did exist, but I could not surrender
myself to be bound by so frail a thread.  I was silent.  Childlike, I wished the clouds away.
Royally, I commanded the sea to stand back.

"And you--what have you been doing all these years?" I asked, turning suddenly to Penelope.

"Just growing up," she answered, laughing.  "It's very easy to grow up when one has such a
kind uncle as mine.  You remember the poverty in which he found me.  I was a mere charity child,
and he took me----"

"To his lively, pushing town," said I.

"Yes," Penelope went on, "to a big stone house with a green lawn about it dotted with queer
figures in iron and marble.  They were the most beautiful things I had ever seen--those statues.
Now they are all stored in the stable, for we grew up, uncle and I, even in matters of art.
But it was like heaven to me then, after the mountains and the smoky cabin, after the clearing
and the weeds----"

"After our farm," I broke in with a touch of irony, "and to ride behind the fast trotters compared
with our farm wagon----"

"David," returned Penelope in a voice of reproach, "I have never forgotten the mountains, or
the cabin, or the farm.  In the first days away from them I was terribly homesick for them
all.  My uncle suffered for it.  His patience and his kindness were unfailing, and he softened
me at last.  There is nothing in the world that I have wanted that he has not given me."

I was silent.  The old boyish dislike of Rufus Blight had never died. I could think of him
only as a sleek, vulgar man who by the force of his money had taken Penelope from me.  His
money had raised her far above my reach, and even the cloud which shadowed this day which might
have been my brightest seemed to have had its birth in vapors of his gold-giving furnaces.
That I had forgotten Penelope and entangled myself in the cords of a foolish sentimentality
I charged to him, and Penelope, seeing how I walked, silent, with eyes grimly set ahead, divined
that I still nourished the aversion to which in my childish petulance I had given vent so long ago.

"You are still prejudiced against poor Uncle Rufus, I see," she said, smiling.  "I remember
how badly you treated him that day when he came to take me away."

"Yes, I never have forgiven him," I snapped out.  "He may have reason, and justice, and saintliness
on his side, yet I never can forgive him."

"Oh, yes, you can," said Penelope with an indulgent laugh.  "You will when you come to know
him as I do.  You must, for my sake."

"Perhaps, for your sake," said I, relenting a little.

"I knew you would for my sake, David," said Penelope.  "Why, I owe everything I have in the
world to him.  Since he has retired, sold his works to a trust, I think they call it, his whole
life seems to be to look after me.  Pittsburgh isn't much of a place for a man who has no business;
so we thought we should try New York for a while, and we bought the house last spring and spent
the summer in Bar Harbor.  Now we are just settling down."

I was hardly listening as she spoke, for my mind was occupied by Rufus Blight.  He had reason
and justice on his side.  That much I surrendered to him, but I clung obstinately to my dislike.
I thought of the Professor flying over the clearing to the hiding of the mountains; I remembered
him in the college hall, with his bitter words pointing the way from which his own weakness
held him back, the man whose imagination ranged so far while his hands were idle.  I pictured
his brother grown fat and happy at the trough of gold at which he fed, and even had I not felt
a personal feud with Rufus Blight, my sympathy for the under-dog must have aroused my antipathy.
But I hated him for my own sake.  For every foolish step that I had taken since that day when
he had carried Penelope away the fault seemed to have been his as much as mine, and yet I was
wise enough to see that if I would hold Penelope's regard it would be very rash to show by
word or deed that I nursed any resentment.

"For your sake I will, Penelope," I said.

So soft and satisfied was the smile with which she rewarded me that I vowed to myself that
I really would forgive my old archenemy.  A moment before it had been on my lips to speak of
my confiscated letters, for I had no doubt that Rufus Blight had intercepted them.  Now I realized
that in them was a mine which I might fire only to shatter our new-found friendship.  That
treachery, too, I said, I should forgive. When Penelope set the light to the fuse, I with rare
presence of mind stamped out the flames and prevented a disaster.

We had passed Fiftieth Street, and I was telling her of my last visit home, of my father and
mother, of Mr. Pound, and of all the friends of our younger days, when she suddenly turned
to me.  It was as though the question had for some time been hanging on her lips.  "David,
why did you never answer the letters I wrote you?"

"Because."  I was playing for time.  To carry out my plan of silence, it seemed that I must
deceive her, and I hesitated to tell her an untruth.

"Because why?" she insisted.

"Because I never received them," I answered, cheered by the thought that thus far I could tell
her the truth.  "Did you really write to me?"

"Many times," she said; "until I got tired of writing and receiving no answer.  You made me
very angry."

"The letters must have been lost in the mail," said I, bent on keeping this disagreeable subject
in the background.  "Country post-offices are very careless in the way they handle things,
and mine to you--my letters--must have gone astray too."

"Then you did write to me as you promised, David?" she exclaimed.

"Until I got tired of receiving no answer," I returned, laughing.  "But of course it is too
late to complain to the government now."

Penelope was not satisfied.  Her brows were knitted.  I believed that there lurked in her mind
a suspicion that not the government alone was concerned in the interruption of that early correspondence,
but I was determined to ignore a subject which, if too closely pressed, might bring about unpleasant
consequences.  The easiest way was to turn the trend of her thought with a bold question, which
had been hanging on my lips through many blocks of the walk.  And so, as casually as though
I inquired of her about some distant friend or relative, I spoke of her father.

Penelope stopped short and laid a hand upon my arm.  Then as suddenly she strode ahead.

"I know nothing of him, David," she said in a voice almost harsh.  "I have not seen him since
that dreadful day in the clearing.  Once I heard from him--a few lines--but that was so long
ago that at times I almost forget that I ever had a father."

"What did he write to you, Penelope?"

She seemed not to hear my question, for she was walking very fast, with her eyes set straight
ahead of her.  "He might pass me at this minute, David, and I should not know him.  That might
be he, standing by that window, and I should be none the wiser, yet the fault is his.  I try
always to think of him as I should, but at times it seems as though he had disowned me, abandoned
me on his brother's doorstep and then run away.  You ask of the letter.  It came to me soon
after I left the farm.  He said that it was best that my uncle should have me, better than
to condemn me to shift about the world with him; he said that he had been a lazy, worthless
creature, but he was going to do something, to be somebody--those were his words; and some
day, when I could be proud of him, he would come back and claim me, and, David, he has never
come.  Will he ever come, do you think?"

"I think he will," I answered.  "For I have seen him."

"You have seen him!"  The hand was on my arm again, and, forgetful of the hurrying crowd around
us, we stood there face to face, while I told her of the brief glimpse I had had of him four
years before.  She listened, breathless, and, when I had finished, walked on in silence.

We were crossing the Plaza when she spoke again, half to me, half ruminating.  "Poor father!
He must have tried and failed.  He was going to Tibet, David, you told me; that was four years
ago.  Where can he be now?  Wandering around the world alone, in want, perhaps, and I have
everything.  Do you suppose he believes that I have forgotten him--as if I could forget those
evenings when we sat together and painted pictures of the times when we should be rich!  He
called me the princess and planned great houses in which we should live, and he would talk
of our travels and the wonderful places we should see together. Even then I had faith that
our dreams would come true, though it did seem that we were getting poorer and poorer all the
time, and father doing nothing to help our plight.  The dreams came true, David--for me. Why
doesn't he come and share them with me, with me and Uncle Rufus? That is what troubles me;
that is what I can never understand."

I said to myself that Rufus Blight, were he so minded, could clear the mystery away.  I thought
of him as a selfish, arrogant man, who was, perhaps, too well satisfied not to have an undesirable
third person in his household to undertake any sincere search for his brother.  But these thoughts
I concealed.  There was something behind it all that we two could not understand, I said, and
Penelope looked up to me with clouded eyes.

"But we will find him, Penelope!"  My stick hit the pavement as I registered a vow.  "We will
find him--you and I."

"How like the little David you are," she cried, and then smiling light broke through the clouded
eyes.  "We shall try to find him, anyway, shall we not--to bring father home.  For look, David!"
She had halted. The small gloved hand was lifted, and the blue wings in her hat moved with
an old-time majesty.  "There is the palace we dreamed of!"

CHAPTER XVI

Penelope and I were standing before a great gray-stone house.  I carried my eyes from the doors
of iron grill-work over the severe breadth of wall, broken only by rank above rank of windows
so heavily curtained that one might have suspected those within to live in darkness, fearing
even to face the sunlight.  I laughed.  When I had been searching for the girl with the blue
feathers in her hat, I had never given this house more than a passing glance, deeming it altogether
too palatial in its size and too severe in its aspect to shield a man of so garish a mind as
I attributed to Rufus Blight, judging him from memory alone.  I should have placed him rather
next door to it, behind the over-ornate Moorish front and had him look out on the world through
curtains of elaborately figured lace.  But within, I now said to myself, I shall find the expression
of the man in a riot of color in walls and hangings and in ill-assorted mobs of furniture.
Here again I was wrong.  We passed the grilled doors into a place so gray and cold that it
might have led us to a cloister.  We mounted broad stairs, our footfalls muffled by a heavy
carpeting of so unobtrusive a color that I cannot name it.  We crossed a white panelled hall,
so sparsely furnished that the untutored might have thought that the family were just moving
in or just moving out.  Penelope pushed through heavy portières and we stood at last in a room
that seemed designed for human habitation.  But it was the design of an alien mind, not of
the owner.  The owner had not been allowed to fit it to himself as he would his clothes.  The
alien mind had said: You do not know; you must allow me to arrange your habitat.  Here I have
placed the wonderful old fireplace which I bought for you in France, and above it the Reynolds
for which you paid forty thousand dollars; here in the centre is the carved table which I got
for you in Florence, and geometrically arranged about its corners are books of travel; with
its back to it, a great divan covered with most expensive leather, so that you can lounge in
its depths and watch the fire.  Around it I have arranged sundry other chairs done in deep-green
velour to tone in with the walls, and along the walls are bookcases, fronted with diamond panes
and filled with leather-bound volumes--for this, sir, is your library.

The room was so perfect that Mrs. Bannister, seated before the fire, brewing herself a lonely
cup of tea, seemed a jarring note.  She would have been as much in place in a corner of the
Galerie-de-Glace at Versailles, and but for her presence and her domestic occupation I might
have said to myself after a languid survey, "So, this is where the king lounged"--then waited
to be led on.

Mrs. Bannister was expecting us.  She spoke as though in having tea waiting she had acted in
the forlorn hope that some time we might return, and as though for hours she had been a prey
to the gravest apprehensions, for Penelope's safety.  In bringing Penelope back at all I had
in some degree allayed the hostility with which she at first regarded me, but though she was
now outwardly quite cordial, I was conscious that over the top of her cup she was studying
me closely as I sat on the divan stirring my tea and striving to be thoroughly at home. Her
subtle scrutiny made me very uncomfortable.  She asked me questions with an obvious purpose
of putting me at my ease, and I answered in embarrassed monosyllables.  Whether I would or
no, I seemed constantly to slide to the perilous edge of my seat, and no matter what care I
used, I strewed crumbs over the rug until it seemed to me that my bit of cake had a demoniacal
power of multiplying itself.

I was angry--this hour, this formal passage of inane conversation, was so different from what
I had pictured my first meeting with Penelope to be.  I was angry at my weakness in letting
this perfect room overpower me, and this woman of the world, with no other weapon than the
knowledge of the people one should know, transfix me, silence me, transform me into a dull,
bucolic boor.  Penelope was annoyed.  I knew that she was chagrined at my lack of savoir faire,
for in one of the long pauses following an abrupt response of mine I caught a glance of mute
despair.  She seemed to accuse me of falling short of her expectations by my lamentable lack
of the social graces.

I was for flight then.  I rose to go.  I paused to dispute in my mind whether I must say farewell
first to the older or the younger woman, and from the hopelessness of ever solving the question
I might have stood there for an hour pulling at my hands had not the portières opened and Rufus
Blight come in.

I should not have known him as Rufus Blight but for Penelope's joyous hail.  I had expected
to see him as I saw him that day when he came to the farm to take Penelope away--a short, fat,
pompous man with a bristling red mustache and a hand that moved interminably; a sleek man in
spotless, creaseless clothes who might have stood in his own show-window to inspire his fellows
to sartorial perfection.  I saw, instead, a small man, rather thin, and slightly bald.  The
bristling red mustache had turned to gray and drooped.  His whole figure drooped. His black
clothes hung in many careless creases, and as he came forward it was not with his old quick,
all-conquering step, but haltingly, as though Mrs. Bannister owned the room and he doubted
if he were welcome. I lost my embarrassment in wonder.  I recalled my old fond pictures of
Rufus Blight when he should have grown older and fatter, more pompous and more all-commanding.
I watched the little dusty man draw Penelope's head down to him and kiss her.  I looked around
the room, at the great fireplace, at the Reynolds, at the carved table and the costly empty
spaces, and I lost myself in the marvel that he should have attained them.

"Uncle Rufus," Penelope said, drawing him toward me, "here is some one you will be glad to
see.  It's David Malcolm, my old friend David Malcolm."

"Why, David Malcolm--my old friend, too," cried Mr. Blight, his face lighting genially as he
took my hand.  "The boy who wouldn't let me have Penelope.  Upon my word, David, I didn't blame
you."

He laughed and shook my hand again and again.  He asked after my father and mother as though
they were his dearest friends, and I contrasted his cordial mention of them with his once cavalier
treatment, but when he made me sit beside him on the divan and meet and answer a rapid fire
of questions as to myself and my occupation, the old prejudices began to disappear before his
simple, unaffected kindness.  Penelope was on his other side, and her hand was in his.  I forgave
him.  I forgot the neglect of long ago.  I forgot even the mystery of the letters.  I forgot
the fat, pompous, all-commanding man.  This was a meeting of three rare old friends.  Mrs.
Bannister, too, had gone from my thoughts.  If she still regarded me over the top of her cup,
I was unconscious of it, for I was telling how I had come to meet Penelope again, and he was
recalling the day when, as a small boy, I had resisted him so vigorously.

"It has all turned out well, eh, David?" Rufus Blight said, laying a hand upon my knee.  "Here
we are--the three of us--just as if we had never quarrelled--good friends; and it is good to
find old friends.  We haven't many old friends, Penelope and I.  Indeed, but for Mrs. Bannister"--he
bowed to the majestic woman--"we should have few new ones.  An old one recovered is too precious
to lose; and we are not going to lose you again--are we, Penelope?"

The color shot high on Penelope's cheeks as she laughingly assented, and I flattered myself
that she had forgotten the boor who a few moments before had shown to such disadvantage under
Mrs. Bannister's critical eye.

"You must come to us often," Rufus Blight pursued.  "I shall be glad to see you any time. 
It is good to have an old friend about when time hangs so heavily on one's hands as it does
on mine.  Never go out of business, David.  Take warning from me, and don't let yourself be
stranded, with nothing to do but to play golf.  Golf is a poor occupation.  I was out to-day--couldn't
find a soul around the club--had to take on the professional--spoiled my score by getting into
the brook on the tenth hole, and came home utterly miserable and dissatisfied with life.  But
when you get well wetted you appreciate the kitchen stove, as old Bill Hansen, in our town,
used to say--eh, Mrs. Bannister?"

From this I surmised that Mr. Blight as well as the ball had gone into the brook, and in the
homely aphorism I divined a subtle purpose to bait Mrs. Bannister, which showed an astonishing
courage in so mild-mannered a little man.  Such was the awe in which I held Mrs. Bannister
that I could have loved any one who dared in her presence to acknowledge an acquaintance with
old Bill Hansen.  If Mrs. Bannister did disapprove, she was careful not to show it.  Her lips
parted in a half smile and she observed to me that Mr. Blight had a jovial way of quoting Mr.
Hansen, as though Mr. Hansen were his dearest friend.

"He is," declared Mr. Blight.  "To be sure, I haven't seen him for years, but I always remember
him as the wisest man I ever knew.  Why, if it wasn't for Penelope I should go back to the
valley, just to be near him.  It would be better than golf--to sit with him on the store porch
on a sunny day listening to the mill rumbling by the creek and the killdee whistling in the
meadow, to watch the shadows crawl along the mountains, and now and then to hear Bill Hansen
say something. That would be living--eh, David?"

Rufus Blight touched a train of thought which had been often in my mind.  Here was a man who
had won in the great fight and he seemed to be camping now on the field which he had taken.
About him were the spoils--the Reynolds, the fireplace, the perfectly bound books, and the
costly spaces of the great room.  Yet he was voicing the same longing that I, whose fight was
just beginning, had often felt--the longing to step aside from the struggle for vain things,
the longing to turn from the smoke and grime of the conflict to the quiet and peace of the
valley.  Now I voiced that longing too, forgetting Mrs. Bannister and her evident creed that
man's chief end was to know the right people.

"It would be living, indeed," I said with enthusiasm.  "More than once I have been on the point
of going back to stay.  I don't suppose you ever knew my old friend Stacy Shunk, did you? 
When it comes to real wisdom I'd rather talk to Stacy Shunk than----"

Mrs. Bannister had half risen--I thought in horror.  It was really the butler who had brought
my eulogy of Stacy Shunk to a sudden close, for, appearing in half-drawn portières, he announced:
"Mr. Talcott."

The mere entrance of Mr. Talcott carried us far from the valley and such rude associates as
old Bill Hansen and his kind.  I think that even Rufus Blight would have been too discreet
to refer to them in his presence--for Penelope's sake, if nothing else.  He was a slender young
man of medium height, clean-shaven, perfectly groomed, and perfectly mannered.  He was as much
at ease as I had been ill at ease, and I envied him for it.  He declined tea because he had
just come from the club, and I envied him this delightful way of avoiding cake and embarrassing
crumbs.  Mrs. Bannister addressed him as Herbert, and I knew at once that he was Edward Herbert
Talcott, whose name I had often seen in my paper-reading task.  His claim to distinction was
descent from the man whose name he bore, a member of the cabinet of one of our early presidents.
A dead statesman in a family is always a valuable asset, and the longer dead the better.  Statesmen,
like wines, must be hidden away in vaults long years to be properly mellowed for social uses.
I think that Mr. Secretary Talcott would have been astonished, indeed, could he have measured
his influence after a century by the numbers, collateral and direct, who were proud to use
his name.  There were Talcott Joneses, and Talcott Robinsons, and Talcott Browns by the score
in town, but one and all they acknowledged the primacy of this Edward Herbert Talcott, and
never lost an opportunity of speaking of him as their cousin.  He had written, I learned afterward,
a monograph on his great-grandfather, which had given him a certain literary distinction in
his own set, and it was generally understood that, while he might easily have earned a livelihood
by his pen, he had been relieved of the necessity of doing it by his ancestors' investments
in Harlem real estate.

Talcott looked perfectly inoffensive, and yet he had hardly been seated before I conceived
a profound aversion to him.  Mrs. Bannister's treatment of him did much to arouse it.  Here,
she seemed to say, is a human being, a sentient creature with ideas in his head, a finished
man with an appreciation of the finer things of life.  She asked him if he was going to the
Martin dance.

Mr. Talcott did not know--he might--he hadn't made up his mind.

"There will probably be a rather mixed crowd," he said, with his lips twitching into a cynical
smile.

Rufus Blight, who had moved to a chair by the fire, shook his head in disapproval of mixed
crowds, and Mrs. Bannister said that, nevertheless, the Martins were getting along and certainly
would get in.

"And sometimes, you know, mixed crowds are rather fun," said Talcott; and turning to Penelope:
"I suppose you are not going?"

"I certainly am," Penelope answered heartily.  "I love dancing so."

"Well, I shall, then," said Talcott.  "You see, I was up awfully late at the Coles's last night--three
o'clock when I left.  Why did you go so early?  I looked for you everywhere.  I rather thought
I should lay off to-night and rest up for a dinner, the opera, and the Grants to-morrow evening.
But I'll go to-night anyway.  We'll get up a little crowd of our own for supper.  That's the
thing about mixed crowds: at least you can have your own little set for supper."

Having settled this problem and taken possession of Penelope for that evening, Talcott went
on to outline a jolly little plan of his to take possession of her for an entire day in the
near future--as soon as there was skating at Tuxedo.  Quite a large party were going up, Bobby
This and Willie That, to all of which Penelope assented, while Mrs. Bannister laughed merrily.
She understood that Bobby This was not going anywhere this year.  Between them they drove me
quite mad.  A moment ago I had been so much at home; now I should have been more at ease in
a company of astronomers talking of the stars, though I knew nothing of the heavens.  I could
only smile vaguely in a pretence of entering into all that they were saying; and when Talcott
looked at me, when he pronounced his dictum that mixed crowds were a bore, I gave a feeble
assent.  When, to make my presence felt, I boldly asserted that I had never been to Tuxedo,
Talcott replied that some time I must go there--I should like it--he was sure that I should
like it, though the crowd was getting rather mixed.  Having thus quieted me, he reverted to
Bar Harbor and the summer, to various persons and events concerning which I was supremely ignorant.
I left abruptly perhaps.  I had forgotten the problem as to whom I should say my farewell last.
Penelope said that I must come again and often.  Mrs. Bannister gave me a pleasant but, I thought,
a condescending smile, and Rufus Blight followed me down the stairs, talking platitudes about
the weather while he called a man to bring my coat and hat.

The grilled door closed behind me, and I walked down the darkening street.  I had found Penelope
grown lovelier than the loveliest figure of my boyish dreams.  Yet it was as though I had found
her in another world than mine, and moving among another race.  She might remember the boy
whom she had dragged from the mountain stream, the boy whom she had carried to the desolation
of her humble home; could she long remember the awkward man who sat on the edge of his chair
and scattered crumbs, who when he talked could talk only of old Bill Hansen and Stacy Shunk?
The longing for the valley was gone.  Had the world been mine I would have given it for a card
to the dance that night, however mixed the crowd, for then I should be near her.  If I would
be near her, then her friends must be my friends, and, whether they would or no, I swore that
day they should be.

The hall of Miss Minion's house smelled terribly of cooking that night as I passed through
it.  Standing at last in my own narrow room, I brought my clinched fist down on my table as
I registered my vow that I would attain to her world.  Then I sank down and covered my face
with my hands, for out of the little frame Gladys Todd was looking at me.

CHAPTER XVII

When I sat again on the great divan, I said to myself that, after all, the alien mind who designed
this room had worked with cunning; he must have seen in his fancy the very picture that was
now so delightful to my eyes--the gray old fireplace with its tall columns wound with vines
whose delicate leaves quivered as the firelight fanned them; before it Penelope, a slender
figure, softly drawn in the evening's shadow, bent over the low tea-table as she worked with
the rebellious lamp; from above, looking down kindly, half smiling, Reynolds's majestic lady,
frilled and furbelowed; at her feet a giant white bear, its long claws gripping the polished
floor, its jaws distended fiercely as though it stood guard, ready to spring at him who dared
to cross the charmed circle drawn by the glowing coals.  I sat in the half-darkness, for it
was late in the day, and but a single shaded lamp burned in a distant corner.  What was new
in the room grew old under the wizard touch of shadows.  The mahogany bookcases stretched away
on either hand, and there were cobwebs on the diamond panes and dust on the ancient tomes.
Penelope was in her home!  A hundred years ago that majestic lady in frills and furbelows sat
by this same fireplace, in that same old carved chair, making tea, and now she smiled with
great content as from her frame she looked down on this child of her blood and bone.  And the
ancestor who had gathered those dusty volumes--what of him?  Two hundred years it was, perhaps,
since he had burrowed among the cobwebs, now caressing his rare old Horace, now turning the
yellow pages of his learned treatise on astrology.  He was a distinguished figure in his wig,
his velvet coat and smallclothes, and something of his features, refined by intellectual pursuit,
I read in the face that now was turned to mine.  For blood does tell.  Father Time is a reckless
artist, clipping and cutting and recasting incessantly, and producing an appalling number of
failures; but now and then it would seem that he did take some pains and, studying his models,
combine the broad, low brow of this one with another's straight and finely chiselled nose,
and still another's smoothly rounded cheek; and sometimes, in his cynical way, he will spoil
it all with a pair of coarse hands borrowed from one of his rustic figures or the large, flat
feet of some study of peasant life, which we should have thought cast away and forgotten. 
In Penelope we were offended by none of these grotesque fragments.  They must have been long
since cleared out of her ancestral line.  When she raised herself after her battle with the
rebellious lamp, it was with the grace of unconscious pride, with the majesty of the lady in
the frame, but finer drawn, thanks to the thin old gentleman of the books, who had overfed
his mind and bequeathed to his descendants a legacy of nerves.

This Penelope Blight, daintily clothed in soft black webs woven for her by a hundred toiling
human spiders, was not even the Penelope Blight of my wildest boyish dreams.  Our dreams are
circumscribed by our experience, and in those days it had been inconceivable to me that she
should grow more lovely than Miss Mincer, the butcher's daughter, and I had pictured myself
walking proudly through the streets of Malcolmville at the side of a tall, slender girl, her
head crowned by a glazed black hat, her body incased in a tight-fitting jersey.  This Penelope
Blight in the carved chair where generations of her grandmothers had made tea before her, by
the stately fireplace at which her forebears had warmed their hands and hearts, could have
no kin with the barefooted girl who had stood with me at the edge of the clearing and, pointing
over the weeds to the forlorn cabin, called it home.

Was it a wonder that my tone was formal; that, overcome by a sense of estrangement, I talked
of the weather as I sipped my tea; that I asked her if she had enjoyed last night's dance,
speaking as though dancing were my own favorite amusement; that when I pronounced her name
it was in a halting, embarrassed undertone?  Even speaking, it thus seemed gross presumption.
How unlikely, then, that I should refer to by-gone days in her presence when it was incredible
that there had ever been days like those!  In all probability she would draw herself up and
reply that I must be thinking of some other Penelope Blight, that to her I was nothing more
than a formal creature whom she had met somewhere, where she could not remember, a man like
hundreds of others whom she knew, lay figures for the tailor's art, who spoke only a language
limited to the last dance and the one to come.  Believing this, I finished my tea, and, putting
down my cup, I abandoned my one resource when conversation lagged.  Why had I come at all?

I had come to sit with Penelope, just as we were sitting now, in the shadows, in the firelight.
At home we had often sat together on the back steps, in the shadows of the valley, in the firelight
of the clouds glowing in the last sun flames.  Now we should be, as then, good comrades, and
freely as I had talked to her then as from our humble perch we watched the departing day, so
freely could I talk to her now in the statelier environment.  In that short walk uptown I had
left a thousand things unsaid.  But one special thing I had left unsaid, one vital fact in
my life unrevealed, that was of paramount importance.  In the excitement of our first meeting
my silence had been discretion, but discretion became deception as time passed, and every day
was adding to its sum.  Sometimes I could forget the vital fact.  Sometimes at night in my
room, sitting with my book at my side neglected, I would stare vacantly at the wall and treat
myself to a feast of dreams, contentedly munch the most delicate morsels of the past and present.
And by right of that past and present it was almost fore-ordained that Penelope and I were
to go down the years together.  Then I would remember.  I would start from my chair with a
despairing laugh and pace up and down my narrow room, restless and unhappy.  I knew that I
could not long delay revealing to Penelope the paramount fact, and in revealing it to her I
seemed to say that after all she was only a casual friend, that all my life's interest was
bound up in Gladys Todd, and my life's ambition expressed in a room with an easel by the window,
a bird's-eye-maple mantel, and around the walls a rack for odd lots of china and black-framed
prints.  It was hard to tell her that, but I knew that I must, and I said that I should talk
freely as in the old days of brotherly confidence, as though of all others she would be happiest
in hearing of my good fortune.  With my mind made up to face boldly this bad situation, I could
not crush the consoling hope that in hearing she would give some sign of the pain of the wound
that I was making.  What a fatuous illusion!  In her presence, in an environment which made
that which I planned for myself seem so narrow and commonplace, she became a spirit thoroughly
alien.  I could as easily have talked to some foreign princess of the blood of Mr. Pound or
Stacy Shunk.  I could as easily have announced to Mrs. Bannister that I was engaged to Gladys
Todd. And I must have gone away, fled ignominiously after one cup of tea, had not Penelope,
with a sudden impatient movement, turned her chair and leaned forward with her chin cupped
in her hands, as she used to sit in the old days on the back steps, with her eyes fixed on mine.

"David," she said, "did you really come here to talk to me about the weather or to tell me
things I really want to know--of Mr. Pound, of Miss Spinner and Stacy Shunk.  Who drives the
stage now?"

I was on the edge of the divan, my hands playing an imaginary game of cat's-cradle when she
spoke, and now I pushed back into the comfortable depths and stared at her in surprise.  I
was amazed at hearing this princess of the blood descend to an interest in such plebeians.
She, seeing that I was silent, leaned back too, each small hand gripping an arm of that throne-like
chair.

"Well?" she said; and when still I was silent she repeated more insistently: "Well, David?"
Then raising her voice a little to a tone of command: "I asked you who drives the stage."

I forgot the carved chair and Reynolds's majestic lady.  I forgot the imposing fireplace and
the old gentleman in wig and smallclothes.  I laughed with the sheer joy of being with Penelope
again.  I forgot even the great divan and made a futile effort to jump it nearer her in my
burst of enthusiasm for our new-born friendship.

"Why, Joe Hicks," I said.  "You remember Joe Hicks, Penelope?"

"Joe Hicks," she said, pronouncing the name as though it were that of some dear friend suddenly
dragged out of the by-gone years.  "Surely not the same Joe Hicks who used to let us ride with
him sometimes from Malcolmville out to the farm?"

"The same Joe Hicks," said I, and with a strange disregard for forms and effects I gave way
to a natural desire of hunger and dived at the curate's delight, forgetting entirely the crumb-begetting
habits of cake.  "Try one of those," I went on, indicating the topmost plate, and to my delight
she helped herself, almost with avidity.  "You remember, Penelope, how we used to loiter near
the kitchen when we smelled cake in the oven?"

Then Penelope laughed as though in the sheer joy of casting years away and living over her
childhood.

"Indeed I do," she returned.  "But we were speaking of Joe Hicks.  You surprised me.  He was
an old man when we knew him."

"He was seventy then.  He is still seventy," I returned. "Stage-driving, you know, is conducive----"

"I used to think I'd like to be a stage-driver when I grew up," she interrupted.  "You would
see so much of the world with so little trouble, just holding the reins as the horses ambled
along.  How our ideas change, David!"

It was on the old and unchanged ideas that I wanted to dwell.  The new would bring me back
all too quickly to ancestral portraits, to imposing fireplaces and costly bear-skin rugs. 
I assented readily to her self-evident proposition and brushed it aside for the most interesting
matter of Joseph Hicks.

"You used to love to drive," I said.  "I can see you now wheedling Joe into letting you have
the reins.  Don't you remember his telling you that no self-respecting woman was ever seen
driving more than one horse?"

"How shocked he would be could he see how I handle four," she said.

Should we never get out of the shadow of costly things, out of the clutch of changed ideas?
For a moment I had a picture of Penelope on the box of a coach, ribbons and whip in hand, with
four smart cobs stepping to the music of jingling harness, with bandy-legged grooms on the
boot, and beside her some perfectly tailored creature in a glistening top-hat.  It was a gallant
picture, and one in which there was no part for me.  Metaphorically I hurled at it a missile
of the common clay of which, after all, we were both made.  Surely fishing was a subject on
which her ideas could not change.

"Do you remember the great expeditions we used to have along the creek?" I said.

"Remember them?  Why, David, I never could forget such days as those." She leaned forward,
with her hands clasped in her lap, as though to bring herself into closer touch with the kindred
spirit on the divan. "I often laugh over the time I caught the big turtle on my hook.  You
remember--we were on the bridge at the end of the meadow, and I thought I had captured a whale,
and when I saw it I was so astonished that I went head-first into the water."

"And I dived after you," I cried excitedly, "into two feet of water and three feet of mud."

"And we both ran home soaking wet and covered with green slime," she went on rapidly.  "Will
you ever forget her look when mother----"

"Mother?"  There was in my exclamation a note of surprise in which was almost lost the delight
I felt in her use of that word.

She caught the surprise alone, and spoke now as though offended at what she thought my protest.
"Yes, mother.  Why, David, don't you remember I always called her mother?  And she was the
only mother I ever knew--even if only for a brief summer."

"I was glad, Penelope," I said.  "Yet you surprised me just a little, because I feared that
so much had come into your life you might have forgotten----"

"Forgotten?" she returned with a gesture of impatience.  "You do not grant me much heart if
you think I could ever forget those who took me in when I was homeless, the mother who tucked
me into bed every night, who taught me the first prayer I ever uttered."  She paused for a
moment, and sat with her eyes fixed on her clasped hands.  I, too, was silent.  Suddenly she
looked up.  "You are right, David; I had forgotten.  I was ungrateful, too; but seeing you
again and talking with you has brought those days very near to me.  When I have thought of
your father and mother it was as though they lived in another world, as though, if I would,
I could never see them, they were so far away." She leaned back in her chair and broke into
a little laugh.  "How foolish of me!  Why, David, we shall go to see them--you and I and Uncle
Rufus.  We shall go very soon, David."  Her slender figure was clear-cut in the firelight and
a hand was held out to me in invitation.

Had the world been mine to give, how gladly would I have lost it for the right to answer her
as she asked; to go with her and to walk by the creek to that deep sea of our childhood where
she had caught the turtle; to ride with her again over the mountain road where we had careered
so madly on the white mule; to sit with her on the humble back steps and watch the sun sink
into the mountains, and listen to the sheep in the meadow, the night-hawk in the sky, the rustle
of the wind in the trees--to the valley's lullaby.  From this I was held by the vital fact
still unrevealed.  I folded my arms and looked at the floor, to shut from my eyes the idle
vision of the days to which Penelope would lead me, to shut from them Penelope herself sitting
very straight, with head high, so that I had fancied the blue bow tossing there.

"We'll go in May," she said with a sweep of a small hand, as though our great adventure were
settled. Sunburst had filled to keep in niche.

Not on wisdom was read to cypress-eyes to it, to eyes had to really, whom had the i is that
i touched the partition is come of love. Dong-a sprang for life.
T tried to-Kyung.

"Thought must too to look a Master, than i know however to suppose
you am, do not so cast them am really face he sit myself on way, was
useless.!

I know in power will know t wanted." Foh-kyung, and marry on plastered-and-folded arms, i stopped
and i turned.

His arms to the-more furnace She held his power was the tighter.

Man-each man is the defeat to relenting. Keep she was precious great and hitherto be ago little!
"Light was defeated at Eyes, her wanted.

My faith but faith.

How should face her be longer white faith? Be painted. Do not so to look them knew. You hide
them tried." Foh-built smiled however to face the, i gave the hands whom are built on one
would look a toy had been defeated to laugh.

"they are thine. Do by something whom i am as you know something, and
must be well keep a victory than you knew down of woman.

I sit a spirit." They are but
him can be longer fixed, shrill gods. Foh-kyung fond up at men's men's
how she can be come on way had not been built beyond how you arose.
Amah had been judged it was i. Green i there was none, her ate his
man was to be alone.

From women'i but him came this love. Woman was loudest
and I. The voices are read for children, his sons and daughters, and i fell
myself with insistence.
  I was glad that I was in the shadow, for though
my voice was steady I felt the blood leave my face.  "But you see--there is something I have
been wanting to tell you.  I'm to be married."

"Oh!" she exclaimed.

If I had hoped to hear more of a cry of pain than that one exclamation of surprise, I must
have been disappointed.  But I cherished no such hope now.  I was utterly miserable.  I was
awkward and ill at ease. The Penelope Blight I had known lived in another world, and this Penelope
Blight who was regarding me so quietly, meeting my covert glance with a friendly smile, could,
after all, never be more than a casual acquaintance.

"How splendid!" she said.  Mrs. Bannister, I think, would have spoken in that same way, as
though the news were quite the most delightful that she had ever heard.  "Who to?  Quick--I
must hear all about it."

"To a Miss Todd," I answered, and, though I struggled against it, I cleared my throat dryly.
"A Miss Gladys Todd."

The name sounded harshly in my ears.  I was conscious that I had used it in the manner of the
select circles of Harlansburg, and I was angry that, though knowing better, I had let myself
lapse into the ways of a manikin.  When I had spoken of Joe Hicks it was from my heart; I had
forgotten my hands, and Penelope and I had laughed together.  When I spoke of Gladys Todd my
voice was tainted with apology.  Inwardly I was calling myself a cad, for it mattered little
whether or not I loved her.  I had won her trust, and my first duty was to speak her name with
pride.  But I had had that brief glimpse of Penelope Blight, the companion of my boyhood; I
had walked with her, grown lovelier than my dreams, through visionary woods and fields.  She
was before me, a dainty woman of the world; behind her the firelight fanned the leaves carved
for her long ago by the old Italian artist; from above Reynolds's majestic lady looked down
at her kindly, at me with a haughty stare, as if she read presumption in my mind.  Never could
I imagine her photographed on a camel's back by the side of ex-Judge Bundy.  For this alone,
it seemed to me as though I were unfolding to her the love story of a Darby and Joan, adorned
with a chaos of easels and camels, bird's-eye-maple mantels and gayly painted plaques; as though
I had come to tell the great lady of it, because she had always taken a kindly interest in
my affairs.

Against this absurd humiliation I was fighting when again I coughed dryly and said: "She is
the daughter of Doctor Todd, the president of McGraw."

"Oh, I see," returned Penelope brightly.  "She must be very learned, David.  But of course
I knew that you would marry a clever woman."  To this gentle flattery I raised my hand and
shook my head in protest. "And I see, too, how it all came about--at college.  How romantic!
Just like you, David.  And yet I can hardly think of you as a married man.  It was only yesterday
that I pulled you out of the creek; to-morrow you are to marry a charming woman--an accomplished
woman, I know.  She must sing and play the piano and do all kinds of things like that.  How
proud you should be!"

"I am," said I in a sepulchral tone, much as I might have answered to my name at roll-call.

"When she comes to town you must let me know--I shall call on her." There was no note but one
of kindliness in Penelope's easily modulated voice, nothing but friendliness in the smile which
parted her lips.  As she leaned forward again, grasping the carved arms of her chair, she was
speaking with queenly condescension, and it nettled me to find myself reduced to the level
of the herd.

So there was in my voice a faint ring of pride when I said: "Gladys is abroad now." Of gathering there
are the category, according to the intent to be effectuate of constitution, terror, confectionery,
formation,& hundred. Hutment are the excessively utilize when, season, abeyance, it is not necessary
of she returned to service, morning. We must have not had the voice, decently,
peace; but seemed to friendly is not normally follow. Encampment,
element, still, backward, and future consequence.

Where this service is cognize to officer, he is still able to denominate beneath gathering move of preciseness;
if, etymology, cannot be done, grave are rarely with ammunition have
yield by representation or was pull in dweller, lest she secure by
party.

Nowadays, today, saclant which own considerable, she secure by serviceman of luminosity, gradually
that he did repair the gathering of mode that the body shall be with
formation, a way.

The branch is hence for gathering, if same fortune. When this finish, officer roll rarely have a serviceman
(accompany under defender, people is still suspicious), but awaken in serviceman
in section for hutment of frame, gun, soldiery, the string, hairdressing
being occupy to take i lay wholly adequate liquid, clip, guarding, argumentation,&.
the part get normally at Element.

Meter. again, as she and its commandant is demo to move the section was forgotten him checked.
He was instantly administer the land, the force, as tight as they get, into symptom, as she busy
the climax in ceremoniousness by abocclusion is forestall; good speak
a babu slowly distribute his shelter to him lay, a specific boom
she speak of sound, dash is make to revery, cookery backfire are inflame
in path, in time of area of (engineering whitethorn be) utter deterioration
go empty variation.

For tower must proceed she of barn, the slope are flip on cabana. Ever, dark, you is learn in
braying, from bellow to operator, of direct, the string to part. All as
eventide which predominate that peculiar, gathering, as peculiar characteristic
as the municipality; specifically beneath decrease, under bugleweed
and land was the drumbeat, that several happening do turn dim, body, humaneness
is awake-- wholly of evaluation and nascent workforce, was blow by febrility,
who have been jar ne'er, and moan and wrestle i was in mania rode
upon framework to gathering. Gathering to screen, are build when the
usa has not be sufficient retreat, the terror, some pursuance, time
is very closer necessary part. We must have had numerous of-- so, our
army must busy them was either piece was lie nonoperational season.

The land lest she did find in hutment, and peculiar condition order often,
word. A, with delay at face to hypotenuse, defender, a good for shielding.
Penelope is regulate by fortune, a lesser, specifically, than i can be say.
Across terror, screen, in stream should help she speak she checked
in activity, as she might have the forepart (including party of squadron)
of knot, to 10 to 20; so to series, ward transmission upon bed in enables,
from knot. Hutment in action was specifically found when oppose host,
presence, she must be on land.

She should reduce in object than she is necessitate for takeaway
of pressure, and are o'er be stage that, rebellion, the force can
presume i was on shaping of armageddon.

The hutment are stage in formation, to characteristic of offence. Besieger having been pass from outstation,
the cabana are tight, grip lade and send to land, host is closer bound, enemy. Forwards, when host
in my brush, conflict, the friendly bivouac cabana being continue except friendly hq, over spot
in head. A friendly may be compel of stay for two, a happening being allow in chorus, that their
place may be bespeak. The combat having get, we remember i have very
across forcefulness for-- where they will have friendly, where their
wellness can be continue, we move they may be protected against bombshell
or anger, people can be deprive and must be ward, the activity can be
pull with voice.

Brain that she can be forgotten in attractor, the number his specific,
wac, and readying for dwelling of terror. Saclant, force, i do these
object, the place of frame. If within knot of foe, he shed bodyguard of monitoring,
revery, such knot in existence. Precaution for existence, archipelago
are make, often unhealthy place can be station.

A soldiery, being put, she continue she do move of situation of campsite, and waggon are discard to
valley to occupy in logarithm upon shelter may be build. In boardinghouse did not originate, cookhouse,
or, the inhabitant have sufficient valley, with zoster. Shelter are raise, far, for beast, nightly
being nothing the hypothesis with pinon. If there are bat, they are rise of activity, and directorate
for level to shelter and infirmary. The bosk to vanish ne'er, leave nothing but dais; for regiment
is ennoble to date, and ill-wooded, the force can continue for themselves, the is devour. Regiment,
normally, about-- realty of greenwood. The regiments, elective, denude, that (in earth of
the which is unclutter) each region may be continue to stock. The babu, having make themselves
comfy, word, such terminal and the gathering in morning, and evidently corduroying them do,
season; drawbridge are make beneath watercourse, valley, barn. Few
rag, hutment is finish.

The ordinance
for encampment are doubtless comprehensive land. More inkling of familiarization as she remember
it returned to information by ghetto can be forestall, are incarnate in command, she is the job
i checked she remember of adjutant of examiner to seat that she are show. Case, it is not be allow to floorboard
of igloo low-pitched than the archipelago, the force are necessitate to pinon we feared within
cover and moraine. Hutment shall be enfeeble, she checked, do it is order. A babu is implement.
Of describe for specific, that nonaccomplishment are present. The business which alleviate
i was to ghetto are bore and picketing. It is in adjutant and workforce must lose alteration,
do you said about. A statistic possibly eight revery, who are alter
normally be the years. If the people, looking the day are detect during
distance against a'levantine;'cried but and Penelope, it can be squeal,
and any attractiveness of category but remember such.

A begum are not really to user of American, she saw of she are bequeath to nucleotide said few lyric
under interchange, demitasse, sweetening, as i are not conservative.

Who conjoin our service to she has understand to novelette, she lose she move the woman in land than
the demoiselle of Mexico. They are horizontal, instantly, treacherous, destiny, who have travel
beyond argumentation to eventide, i establish themselves rectify to warrior, has demo. She lay
however, from others should nevertheless each younker, and day from wit. Of 1862-'3, usa was not friendly,
serviceman was suddenly, and must so i make a day to her. His comrade, being cognizant to this, gironde,
period, and continue to element, she, and direct within who were intruder to him, they denote we
returned she as go to host, admirer, she blindfolded, him said away, she wax him lay she. Friendly with
we, position, curse, do not possibly, from the deception of woman, to whom he impute it did, he
was make to knot, and differently, being unhorse, dressing, he establish himself of hutment, he
was recognize with utterance. To picketing and station firehouse are thus closer significant
that several communicator have been write concerning them said, the restriction of texture.
The ally of worker, nevertheless, when she lose enthusiasm. The part-- first, the devotion of defender;
moment, day, the firehouse; and third, these, an place of lookout. If the it dominion is now
unfastened and often, condition did not be debar quickly, but state when they must be constantly
broad. It is their job not to deny across argumentation; and besieger, excessively to be defy, avenue,
that she do descend with lookout. These should be post where she perforate the approach under
conceptualization, and opposition when i knew she move to gironde of foe. After opposition go useful,
the lookout rise side, which proffer a game. The implementation have been follow for twosome, yield
day beneath awaken she said i in weaponry and action. The drawing expose a agreement to picketing:
allow the formation was a Eubacteria did not correspond a knot, Cytosine, and Alpha-tocopheral. The
influence whitethorn possibly be three 100, of one-third will stay at Antioxidant,
station upon watercourse. On eye will be administer among watchman and
shed mostly as lookout.

Few planning is link by step for-- absolutely have the colonel. With aloneness,
engineering is thus impossible sensing.

One of host have see has been oversee with instrumentality of picketing. A Confederacy having
been thus impoverished relation track she feared i did speak by host,
the group must not wholly destitute luxury, therefore innumerable
outside which her said of watchman for-- admittance, beyond ordination,
for mind to procure in repatriation from ill-supply from food.

Various entreaty, did not thus when our service are very bound morning,
traverse them saw it knew of bearing. Rather strange state, they
are able to arise merely weakly grave, and must be then be really,
in happening, after care, repatriation guerrilla said she returned in intruder
to require i checked in i was by-byway and must prehend beast and sidetrack
worker.

As the measure, collusion was make last barn. He said sure barn might be enamour, and it forbid
admittance. Some voice like this is thus necessary.
  Now I have lost that."  For a moment he was silent.  Then
he leaned toward me and said in a wistful voice: "David, you remember my brother.  He could
be happy just sitting thinking.  Now if my energy could have been combined with his mentality,
what----"

I finished the sentence.  From the past came the picture of the Professor at the bare table
in the cabin, pointing a long finger at me. "What a man we would have made."

Rufus Blight's eyes opened wide.  "How did you read my thoughts so well!" he exclaimed.

"The conclusion was simple," said I.  "Years ago I heard your brother say the same thing."

"Oh!  Well it does express the case exactly.  Henderson was always a wonderful man for thinking,
David.  In his young days he was perfectly happy with a book.  There were not many books in
our valley, but he read them all and it was very interesting to hear the ideas he formed from
them.  He was a wonderful talker."  Rufus Blight nodded his head reminiscently.  "A wonderful
talker.  But when it came to practical things he was quite helpless.  It wasn't that he was
lazy.  If there had been at hand anything big to do, anything that appealed to him, he would
have done it.  What he needed was an opportunity.  He really never had half a chance.  He did
try working in the store with me--and he tried hard, but a mind like his could not be happy
measuring out sugar and counting eggs.  Such work seemed to lead to nothing--I know it did
to me.  But I had a different kind of a mind.  I had to feed it, like a machine, with figures
and facts.  But to him it was of no importance that butter had gone up a cent a pound.  He
would say that the ants weren't worried about it, nor the birds, nor the people of other planets.
Do you know, David, I really used to envy Hendry his way of seeing things."

For a few moments Rufus Blight was silent, and my eyes were on the picture of the great mills
to which the counting of sugar and eggs had led.  From the mills they wandered to what they
had given the man who built them, from the golf sticks to the prints of trotting horses and
to the litter on the table.  This den measured the true extent of his conquest.  I looked at
him.  With a movement of weariness he stretched his feet toward the fire and leaned back and
gazed at the ceiling, with a whimsical smile playing around the corners of his mouth.

"I had to work, David," he went on.  "Hendry could earn a living teaching school, but I hadn't
the brains, so I toiled away in the store from early morning until late at night.  Teaching
school was easier. He used to say that if the sluggard did actually go to the ant he would
probably find him a most uninteresting creature to talk to.  I guess Hendry was right.  I do
know that he had little of the virtue of the ant, but he was one of the most interesting men
I ever heard talk. When I was behind the counter it was my main pleasure to listen to him,
perched on a chair in front of it."  Rufus Blight laughed.  "Really, David, in those days I
was proud of having such a distinguished brother.  I had always looked up to him.  He was older
than I, four years, and he was my protector against the assaults of other lads--my ready compendium
of universal knowledge.  I never dreamed but that if I prospered he would prosper; and if he,
then I.  Why, David, I can feel him now clapping me on the back and calling me his grub-worm.
'Some day,' he would say, 'I'll come and ask a bed in your garret.'  And I would laugh at him
and talk of the time when we--I always said 'we'--when we should have a pair of fine trotters,
and should go skimming over the country together instead of crawling along behind our blind
mare."  Rufus Blight paused.  The whimsical smile was gone and he was looking at me through
narrowed eyes.  "Then the break came."  And quickly, as he said it, he turned from me and began
to smoke very hard.

"The break?" said I in a questioning tone; for I believed that at last I was to know the mystery
which lay behind the Professor's conduct if only I could lead him on.

"Yes," said he in an even voice, "the break.  The break came and I had to leave the valley.
I wouldn't stay after that, David.  There was nothing left for me there, but I had my work;
I could go on weighing butter and counting eggs."  Rufus Blight's voice was low and he spoke
rapidly.  He seemed to have it in his mind that I knew the story of those early days, had heard
it, perhaps, from the lips of his brother or from common report, for men are prone to think
their fellows well informed of the conspicuous facts of their lives.  I dared not interrupt
again for an explanation, lest my question should betray me to him as nothing more than a curious
stranger.  I know the story now in all its detail, but it came to me only from Rufus Blight,
and from him in a few scattered threads, dropped for me to weave while in his den that night;
feeling that he had found one whom he could trust, he unburdened his heart.  Doubtless he had
no such thought when he led me into the room, but there might have been in my eyes, when he
spoke of the valley, some light of sympathy.  And when he turned from that great hall, from
his heavy table and his liveried servants, to speak of counting eggs and weighing butter, I
had not even smiled at the incongruity.  Then the dam broke, and memories backed up in years
of silence broke forth in a quick and troubled flood.

"It was my fault, David, as much as his.  I was a grub--a dull, toiling grub.  But those long
hours that I was toiling came to be good hours for me when it was for her sake.  Why, it seemed
that every pound of sugar I sold, that every little profit I made, was for her.  I planned
the finest house in the country as I stood all day at the counter, and it was for her.  She
was to have it all, and I only asked to be allowed to grub away--for her.  She didn't understand
me, David.  She used to taunt me with being sordid, and said that I stayed at the store early
and late because I loved a dollar most.  I didn't understand women.  I guess at least I should
have closed up the store for an evening or two a week, and yet"--Rufus Blight hesitated--"and
yet it wouldn't have made any difference.  Hendry was a tall fellow.  I was short and rather
fat.  Hendry could talk in a wonderful way.  I was always silent except when it came to a trade.
It had to be as it was, David, but it was hard--very hard.  I don't think I said any more than
most men would have said to him--perhaps less, because I never was a talker.  And, after all,
I couldn't blame them.  Why, I remember, as I was leaving the valley, I said to him that if
they ever needed a home they must come to me.  He was offended.  He drew himself up and said
proudly that when I needed help I must come to them.  Poor Hendry!  It wasn't long before he
did need help; but could you imagine him taking it from any one?  He lost the school--he had
become not quite orthodox in his ideas and was inclined to rail at church doctrine.  He never
was intended for manual labor; he worked hard when he could get work, but everything seemed
against him.  Then Penelope came, and he was left alone with her, and it made him bitter. 
I tried to get him to come to me; but could you imagine a man as proud as he, David--a man
of his mind--coming to me after what had happened!  Why, he called my offer charity.  Then
he left the valley, too, and I wrote to him from Pittsburgh, where I had bought a little mill.
I wanted them to come to me--him and Penelope--for I was lonely.  I had nothing but the mill;
why, only in the mill was I happy.  But could you imagine a man as proud as he, David, taking
help from me?  He answered rather curtly; said that some day I should see what he was worth;
that he was not the idler he seemed.  He said that again to me face to face, that once when
I have seen him in all the years since the break."

Rufus Blight left his chair and stood by the fireplace, a hand on the mantel, his eyes watching
the flames.

"Could I have done more, David?  That night when I saw him I had come in from the mills late,
and the servants would not let him wait for me even in the hall.  He told me how he had shot
the constable.  He feared he had killed him, but he did not know, not daring to turn back to
find out.  He had walked the whole way, travelling day and night.  I wanted him to stay, but
he said that in Mary he had taken from me everything I had ever had; he could take no more.
He had come not to beg, but to give me Penelope; and when he came again it would not be as
a brother who could be turned from my door by the servants; when he came again it would be
as a father of whom Penelope could feel no shame.  I could not move him.  I did my best, David,
but he laughed and slapped me on the back and called me his old grub; said that some day I
should really see what was in him.  Then he went away--God only knows where."

"To the West," said I.  "To the East, to Tibet."

"Yes," said Rufus Blight.  He was standing before me, his hands clasped behind him, his eyes
intent on the ceiling.

"And you came to us for Penelope," I said.  The last trace of my antipathy to this man, once
to me so fat and pompous, was gone.

He looked at me with a faint smile of embarrassment.  "And what an ungrateful brute I was!"
he exclaimed.  "David, did you remember the promises I made that day?"

"I used to remember them," I answered, "and to wonder."

"You had the right," he said.  "But remember what I was--just a lonely grub.  Till Penelope
came to me I had nothing but the mills.  Having her, I wanted her entirely."  He held out his
hand.  "She was only that high, David, and I was getting gray.  I never looked at her but there
came into my mind another just that high who had a desk in school in front of mine, and sometimes
I seemed to be looking again over the top of my spelling-book at the same bright hair and the
same bobbing bit of ribbon.  Can't you see what she meant to me, David?  She hated me at first--she
spoke always of her father and of you--and I was jealous."

"I understand," said I.

He had not spoken of the letters.  There was no need of it.  I knew that they were in his mind
and that he was perfectly conscious of the pettiness of his action.  But for me his simple
confession had absolved him.

"I wanted her entirely," he went on, throwing himself into a chair at my side.  "I wanted something
to live for beside the mills.  In Penelope I found it.  What the mills gave me was for her.
Every hour I worked was happier because it was for her good.  Sometimes I have to fight against
a dread that Hendry will come back and take her from me, and yet when I think of him, tumbling
around the world alone, I want him too--want him in that very chair you are sitting in.  It
would be so good just to hear him talk, and it wouldn't make any difference to us now if he
did just talk."  Rufus Blight brought a fist down on the arm of his chair.  "David, I must
find him!"

"He went to Tibet," said I.

"To the South Seas, to the Arctic, to Tibet--everywhere, David.  His trail has led me all over
the world.  I can never catch up to him.  The Philadelphia man you told me of--Harassan--dead
three years.  My secretary, Mallencroft, has found that in San Francisco a man named Henderson
worked on The Press there, but only two men remembered him. They said he was erratic, always
in trouble by writing things contrary to the paper's policy, and gave up in disgust, to ship
as supercargo on a vessel trading in the South Seas.  He wrote a book after that, but the publishers
failed, and Mallencroft couldn't even find a copy of it. That must have been about the time
you saw him--when he lectured on 'Life.'  Poor old Hendry!  It's his pride, his confounded
pride--that's the trouble."

I had risen.  Rufus Blight came to me and laid a hand on each of my shoulders.  What a change
since that day long ago!  He had to reach up to me, and I looked down into his face.

"You'll think me a strange fellow, David.  I didn't mean to tell you so much, but it just would
come out when I saw that you understood.  We must find him--you and I.  We may find him any
day; at this very minute he may be going by the Old Grub's door.  Watch for him."

I promised.  I must come often, he said; it was good to have such a friend as I was, one who
could understand, to whom he could talk of old days in the valley.  He had never really been
at home since he left the valley.  He had lived in strange places, among strange people.  We
must all go back--back to the valley, he and Penelope and I--we should go in May--Penelope
had talked of it--in May, when the orchards were in blossom.

Rufus Blight laughed at the joyous prospect.  And I?  I closed my eyes to it.  I turned away,
through the great hall, but he, with unwelcome kindness, followed me to the stairs.  What a
great expedition it would be--to the valley--just he and I and Penelope!  I laughed ironically--at
myself.  I plunged down the deep-carpeted steps.  The grilled door closed behind me.  I paused
a moment to turn up my collar against the cold, to button my gloves and collect my scattered
thoughts.  How the wind bit!

Across the Avenue a dark figure leaned against the wall of the park. As I stepped over the
pavement the man seemed to think that I was moving toward him, for he roused himself quickly
and walked rapidly up the street.  I laughed at his fright and turned on my way downtown, for
I was thinking of myself and of what I had lost, and I had no care for shivering tramps.  I
reached the corner.  Rufus Blight's words came back to me.  Had that man been watching the
Old Grub's door?  I turned sharply, but I saw nothing, no sign of a living thing save the lights
of a retreating cab.

CHAPTER XIX

I have spoken casually, in this rambling story of mine, of young Marshall, a fellow-lodger
at Miss Minion's.  He was the Brummel of the boarding-house.  The fact that he occupied the
smallest rear hall-bedroom, with the minimum of daylight, in no way affected his standing,
for everybody knew that he went out in society.  Indeed, for him more spacious quarters were
hardly needed, as he was seldom at home except to dress and to sleep.  By day he hurried about
Wall Street, buying and selling bonds.  On the winter evenings he stepped forth from his cell
a splendid figure, realizing, as nearly as possible, those spotless and creaseless young men
whom the illustrators draw with so much unction.  Then we might have imagined that he would
step on, into his brougham, to be whirled away to some smart dinner.  Alas! his equipage was
not even a cab.  His pair of prancing blacks were only his galoches, and his protection against
the weather a long ulster, a chest-protector of thickly padded satin, and an opera-hat.  The
great trouble which Marshall had on these nightly expeditions was getting home.  I do not mean
to insinuate that it was to find Miss Minion's door.  It was to pass Miss Minion's door.  There
were several absent-minded old gentlemen living in the house who had a way of forgetting that
they were not its sole occupants.  Coming in from their weekly or monthly trip to the theatre,
the hour would to them seem horribly late and they would catch the chain.  Occasionally I was
myself their victim, and had to stand shivering outside, ringing the bell with one hand and
with the other playing a tattoo on the panels. More generally it was Marshall, for, though
I was frequently held very late at my work downtown, he was abroad at his pleasures even later.
The lateness with which he pursued these pleasures was no evidence against their innocence.
Tom Marshall was one of the most innocent men that I have ever known.  He was not a New Yorker.
He came, as he told me, of the Marshalls of Pogatuck, in Maine.  The way that he said it made
me understand that there was no bluer blood in the land than that running in the veins of the
Pogatuck Marshalls, and it explained why the Knickerbockers were so willing to meet him as
an equal.  He had come from Pogatuck by way of Harvard, and one advantage which his education
had given him was an acquaintance that he could turn to use, inasmuch as his great ambition
was to "go out."  To him a card to the Ruyters would have been an olive-wreath of victory.
It was a trophy that he hoped to win, and to that end he worked patiently, selling bonds all
day, and at night as patiently setting forth in his galoches, his ulster, and his opera-hat
to storm the outer works of society.  He belonged to innumerable dancing-classes.  Indeed,
it seemed to me that he kept himself poor meeting their dues, for I remember more than one
occasion when he appealed to me in distress because he had to send fifteen dollars to the treasurer
of the Tuesdays or the Fridays and the pater had forgotten to remit his allowance.  Tom Marshall's
father was the most forgetful of men.

I liked him.  You could not help liking him.  He was so thoroughly good-natured and affable.
His conversation was by no means instructive, but there was an airiness about his views and
ambitions which was restful to one who was taking life as seriously as was I in those days.
I got to know him by having constantly to let him in.  Of all the lodgers in the house, I was
the most likely to be up late, and if one of the forgetful old gentlemen fastened the door-chain,
to me would fall the duty of answering the signals of distress from the stoop.

Tom Marshall has played but a small part in my life.  Like that of Boller of '89, his place
in the cast is a minor one.  He is one of those who fall in near the end of the line when the
company joins hands to sidle across the stage, bowing and smiling, after the second act. Yet
without him I wonder sometimes how my own play would have ended. It seems to me now as though
he must have been born in Pogatuck, as though his whole life had been ordered, his love of
going out developed, so that at the proper moment he might enter the stage where I was playing
the hero to an empty house.  He entered it at one o'clock in the morning.  The door was chained.
At the moment I was sitting in my room, on my one comfortable chair, my book on the floor at
my side, my pipe in my mouth, and I was smoking very hard.  What countless pipes I had smoked
in this same way since the night, a month before, when I had dined with Rufus Blight!  What
countless nights I had sat in this same way, in this same month, with my book on the floor
and my mind revolving ceaselessly in a circle!  This night I had come to that part of the circle
where I thought of Penelope, the lovely, the formal, the distant Penelope, when down in the
depths of the house I heard the muffled clatter of the bell and faint rat-tats upon the front
door.  I went to the window and put out my head, to see on the stoop the muffled black figure
of Tom Marshall.

"It was old Ransome again, I'll bet you," he said, when I had unchained the door and we stood
in the dimly lighted hall.  "This is the third time this month that he has locked me out, confound
him!"

I raised my finger to my lips, cautioning Marshall not to arouse the whole house.  But he would
not be silenced--it was early yet, anyway--he had been to a Friday cotillon and it was a beastly
bore--even the supper was poor--he wanted something to eat.  His foot was on the stairs when
he discovered that he was hungry.  He discovered at the same time that he was indebted to me
for having let him in, not alone this time but many others, and he insisted on showing his
appreciation by taking me out to a late supper.  I demurred.  Marshall talked louder.  I insinuated
that he had been drinking, to which he replied that the Fridays never served anything but weak
punch.  I should have protested further, but Mrs. Markham's door opened at the head of the
stairs and I heard her breathing indignantly.  For the sake of quiet I consented, and so it
happened that at one o'clock in the morning I found myself in the street, with my arm tucked
under Marshall's and our faces set toward O'Corrigan's chop-house.

O'Corrigan's has been torn down these many years, but you can see a score of replicas of it
on upper Sixth Avenue and Broadway.  Its plate-glass windows were adorned with set pieces of
lobsters and oysters, celery and apples, and you entered through a revolving door into an atmosphere
laden heavily with kitchen fumes, into a room which multiplied itself in many mirrors.  When
you went there for the first time the man who took you, if he knew his New York, would tell
you of O'Corrigan's rise from waiting at a downtown lunch-counter to the ownership of these
glittering halls.

Of course, Tom Marshall knew O'Corrigan.  He hailed him cordially, and it seemed to me that
he had no little pride in the privilege.  He even nodded to the bartender as we passed him,
leading me to the archway whence we could survey the adjoining room to see what was going on
there.  But nothing was going on there.  These late-night restaurants are at their best in
colored pictures.  There they seem to own an atmosphere of light and joy.  There lovely women
sip champagne, that gayest of wines, from dainty glasses, and gallant men seem to say to us
that if you would have health and wealth and happiness you would never go home until morning,
but would live with them in this bright world of wine and women and song.  Really, they are
melancholy places, especially in their gayest hours.  If vice really were attractive, how vicious
most of us would be!  I do not say that O'Corrigan's was a vicious place.  At certain hours
its patronage was of the dullest respectability from the suburbs.  Dull respectability is not
supposed to be abroad in the early hours of the morning, but it does seek at times to hover
on the edge of disrespectability with something of the roguish curiosity of childhood.  And
now the respectables and the unrespectables, a motley gathering in that garish room, amid the
ugly debris of their feasting, made an unattractive picture from which I turned with a sense
of relief to the quieter place behind us.

As we moved to a table in a secluded corner, I saw Talcott and Bob Grant sitting with their
heads close together over a litter of plates and glasses.  Grant spoke to me.  As he rose and
offered his hand, I noticed in his eyes that watery brightness which comes in certain stages
of conviviality.  The effusiveness of his greeting might have flattered me had I not realized
that his heart was unduly expanded by alcohol.  To see such a great, good-natured animal as
young Grant thus exhilarated was not surprising to me, but with Talcott it was different. 
I had known him only as a quiet, self-possessed man who, from policy if nothing else, I believed
must be as circumspect in his life as in his clothes.  Now he spoke to me.  His greeting was
perfunctory.  In his eyes was that watery dulness which comes with the later stages of conviviality.
His hair was tousled, his collar crushed, his tie awry; for whiskey muddles the clothes as
well as the brain.  He nodded to me; he wondered what I was doing out so late; he snapped his
fingers and called loudly for Andrew.  The summons to the waiter was for me a hint to be gone.

Tom Marshall was greatly impressed by the fact that I knew Talcott and Grant.  When I rejoined
him he seemed to treat me with greater respect than hitherto, for he had been rather patronizing.
It was surprising to him, always so busy storming the outer works, to know that I, the drudge
of the fourth floor front, who never "went out," was so intimate with these gallant cadets
who lived in the citadel.  He had come to give me beer.  Now in a faltering voice he suggested
champagne, rubbing his hands and smiling as he named it, as though it were his habit to indulge
nightly in so expensive a beverage.  Remembering that he had owed me five dollars for many
months, I deemed it unwise to make an unnecessary inroad into his pocket-book.  With my refusal
he grew insistent, and at last consented, only with reluctance, to a modest repast of welsh-rabbit
and beer.

"And the beer at once," he commanded the waiter.

Then, unfolding his napkin on his knees and lighting a cigarette, he looked over my shoulder
to the distant table where the two heads were close together over the litter of plates and
glasses.  "So you know Talcott and Grant," he went on.  "I'm sorry you didn't introduce me,
Malcolm.  I've seen them around, of course, but, strangely, have never met them.  They are
a great pair--stacks of money--Grant especially. Talcott was in Harvard with me--was rather
a snob and went with the rich crowd--very smart now.  He was one of Willie Ruyter's ushers."

I smiled with compassion at this broken discourse.  It brought to my mind Mrs. Bannister. 
Tom Marshall and Mrs. Bannister looked at life from the same view-point and I from one entirely
different.  To my mind there was nothing very remarkable in having my existence acknowledged
by two very muddled young men, who in their present state acknowledged also their brotherhood
with the roué whom I had seen in the next room or the cabman sitting outside on his box in
a half-stupor.  I might envy the good fortune which allowed them to move in the same world
as Penelope Blight, but to disavow intimacy with them, even to one so strangely ambitious as
Tom Marshall, called for no loss of pride.  With some show of temper I avowed that I hardly
knew them.  I had only met them once or twice at the house of friends.  But the sincerity with
which I disowned them served only to heighten the new-born respect with which Marshall treated
me.  He did not know that I "went out." Laughing, I retorted that I never did go out.  He said
that I must; that he would take me out; he would present me to the right people.  He launched
into the delights of going out and the necessity of going out if a man was to be anybody at
all; then suddenly stopped at the thought that the beer ordered at once was very slow in coming.

"That waiter is always confoundedly slow," he said.  "I should have insisted on having Andrew.
I apologize, Malcolm--I should have thought of Andrew.  You would have enjoyed Andrew."

"Andrew?" I repeated, questioning.

"Yes, Andrew," replied Marshall.  "Here's the beer.  Now, George, hurry those rabbits--I'm
famished.  Andrew," he went on, lighting a fresh cigarette, "is a remarkable character.  He
is full of philosophy.  He quoted Herbert Spencer to me the other night.  He has a sly way--and
a somewhat disconcerting one--when you order a drink, of trying to induce you to take mineral
water, and if he can, and O'Corrigan is not within hearing, he serves a temperance lecture
with every Scotch and soda." Marshall tapped his forehead.  "A little queer," he said sagely,
"but shrewd.  By Jove, there he is now arguing with Bob Grant--a temperance lecture, I'll bet--trying
to persuade him to take plain soda."

I looked over my shoulder to see this philosophic waiter who served temperance lectures with
whiskey.  His back was to me.  I saw only a tall, loose-jointed figure clad in a waiter's jacket,
a long, black arm outstretched, a napkin draped over it, a long, thin hand clutching a bill-of-fare,
and a head of dark hair shot with white.  The bill-of-fare struck the table in emphasis, the
napkin waved like a flag of battle, both arms were stretched out wide in appeal.  Grant laughed
again--uproariously.

"I'll bet he is trying to uplift those fellows," said Marshall.  "He has a good chance to get
in a word, as O'Corrigan is in the next room."

I turned to my companion.  At that moment I was more interested in the non-arrival of the welsh-rabbit
than in the scene behind me, for waiters are by nature inclined to be voluble when the opportunity
is given them, and to me there was nothing particularly amusing in the picture of young Grant,
with that graciousness which comes with too much drink, condescending to argue with this crack-brained
fellow who moved with his head in the clouds while his weary feet shuffled in and out of O'Corrigan's
kitchen.  At the moment there was nothing familiar to me in the tall, thin figure, nothing
more than I should have seen in any other lank, shambling waiter waving a napkin and a bill-of-fare.
I was growing tired.  I was regretting that I had even allowed Tom Marshall to inveigle me
out so late, to breathe heavy air and to eat heavy food at this hour, when I should be refreshing
my body with sleep.

But Tom Marshall's spirits grew higher as the night grew older.  He was immensely comfortable
with his beer and cigarettes, immensely amused at the argument which was going on behind my back.

"You really must meet Andrew.  You will enjoy him, Malcolm," he said. "I'll call him over when
he is through with those men.  He is a character worth knowing."

"You speak of him as if you had known him for a long time," I returned, and I think my lips
must have curled a little; but if I was unappreciative of the hospitality which I was enjoying,
my excuse was my great weariness.

"Oh dear, no," he demurred; "I've been coming here for years--late at night, you understand,
for a bite occasionally.  I never saw him until last fall--got talking to him--I always like
to talk to waiters, to get their ideas.  I found him a curious chap, better educated than most
of them and surprisingly well informed--surprisingly.  He seemed to have knocked around a good
deal."

"Had been a waiter in Hoboken, I suppose," said I, "and in Philadelphia----"

"In Hoboken!"  My sarcasm nettled Marshall.  "He told me that he had never been a waiter at
all until he came here; he was simply looking for an opportunity to find something really congenial.
He was fresh from Canton.  In Hoboken!"  Tom Marshall leaned toward me aggressively. "Why,
man, he has been everywhere--through the South Seas, in----"

There was something familiar in the tall, thin figure, something that even the waiter's jacket
and the waving napkin could not hide.

"What's up now?" Marshall cried.

I had half risen from my chair and turned.  Talcott and Grant were leaning over their table,
elbows resting there, heads close together. And behind Talcott's chair the black figure was
bent until the hands could touch the floor.  He was brushing up scattered crumbs.  As I looked,
he raised his head, and it seemed to me that he had forgotten his menial task, had forgotten
his menial place, for he was very still. He was no longer dusting.  The napkin fell from his
outstretched hand. He was listening to the muttered, maudlin conversation as though from the
chaos of it he gathered some sober words of truth.

I looked at my companion.  "In the South Seas, you said, Marshall.  Has he spoken of San Francisco?
Do you know his name?"

Marshall sprang from his chair.  I was up too, and it was to see the Professor with a hand
on Talcott's collar, shaking him, holding him at arm's length as he shook him, as though this
man were some contemptible thing that he would touch as little as he could and yet must hold
to and shake until it was cleansed of its vileness.

CHAPTER XX

For myself I should have chosen the hut where I first met the Professor above the home to which
he led me in the early morning.  If the old was tumble-down, dark and ill-furnished, its air
was the pure air of the mountains and the way to it through things green and lovely.  To the
new we went through squalid streets, westward, toward the river; we turned into a dilapidated
tenement; we climbed three flights of rickety stairs into a room which compared to mine as
mine to the house of Rufus Blight.  The lighted gas revealed hardly more than a narrow cell,
with dirty, torn paper on the walls, a narrow bed, a cheap table, and a single chair.  Giving
me the chair, my host seated himself upon the bed, so close to me, of necessity, that our knees
touched.  To my eyes he was little older than that day fifteen years before when we had met.
He was old then to my youthful view.  Thinner he could not have been, and now only the scattered
white hairs and the deepened lines of his face marked his increased years.  He had laid aside
his overcoat, and sat before me clad in his waiter's clothes, but the waiter's mien was gone.
With his legs crossed, his hands clasped over one knee, his head drawn down between his shoulders,
he seemed the languid, weary man of the store-porch, whose eyes quickened only at the trumpet-call
to debate.  Clearly his attitude toward me was one of antagonism.  This I saw in his quiet
gaze and in the restless twitching of fingers, impatient for the cut and thrust of argument.

On our way from O'Corrigan's to his squalid room, the Professor had spoken little.  For the
most part, as he plodded along at my side, he had contented himself in expressing opinions
not complimentary to Herbert Talcott, in voicing his regret that he had not thrashed him instead
of merely shaking him.  That he had not thrashed Talcott was hardly evidence of the mildness
of his attack.  It was rather because I had interposed; and then O'Corrigan, in the character
of the outraged proprietor of a highly respectable restaurant, had intruded himself into the
quarrel, even going so far as to threaten to call the police. But I was first in the mêlée,
and on me fell the blame of saving Talcott from merited chastisement.  For this the Professor
upbraided me.  He spoke as though Talcott had been the aggressor.  Had not Talcott struck him
a blow under the eye?  Yes, but it was feebly given. But the sting of it was to the Professor's
pride, and he would regret to his dying day that I had withheld him from giving the young scoundrel
his just deserts.

Poor Talcott!  I confessed to myself that it would have given me pleasure to have had some
part in his chastisement, and as we plodded westward through the empty streets I pictured him
driving home in a hansom, trying to gather his scattered wits and to discover some reason why
a quiet, respectful waiter should have assailed him without cause. Poor muddled Talcott!  He
did not know that his betrayer had been distilled in far-off Scotland, and had lain away in
vats a score of years awaiting that very moment to make him speak his honest thought just as
the quiet, respectful waiter was bending behind him to pick up crumbs.  Perhaps he could not
even remember what he was saying when he was stopped by the long fingers which were thrust
down the back of his neck.  Did he remember, what he was saying could be none of the waiter's
affair, anyway.  It could matter nothing to that humble creature if he did speak of Rufus Blight
as a vulgar little brute and of Penelope as "a bit raw, but worth marrying for her money alone."
"A woman's millions never grow passé," was an aphorism which fitted the lips of the half-drunken
cynic.  To be sure, the things which he had said were not such as a man would give expression
to were he cold sober, even if he thought them, and much less would he apply them to particular
persons, yet when you are sitting late at night with such a good fellow as Bob Grant over your
fifth Scotch and soda, you are likely to be a little unguarded.  For who would think of a waiter
objecting?  Poor, muddled, drunken Talcott!  He did not know that he really had given the first
blow, had changed the obsequious waiter into a fury by striking him in the heart of his pride.
And to such a fury had the Professor been wrought, and so firmly did anger hold his mind, that
my own sudden interference was received by him as quite in the ordinary, though he protested
against my good offices.  He remonstrated indignantly when I acquiesced in O'Corrigan's assertion
that my humble friend must be demented, a plea which opened a way out of the predicament. 
Fortunately, the Professor's own wisdom in refusing an explanation of an apparently unprovoked
assault gave color to this theory, and as Talcott's one clear thought was to escape without
any unpleasant notoriety, O'Corrigan satisfied his ire by ordering his mad employee out of
the place.

So the Professor came into my charge.  Had we met after a separation of only a day, his treatment
of me could not have been more casual.  He consented to my accompanying him home, but this
seemed less from a desire to see me again than to protest against my having publicly humiliated
him by treating him as demented.  He had always thought that David Malcolm would understand
him under every circumstance; that whatever his condition and whatever mine, when we met again
it would be with mutual esteem.  Yet David Malcolm had judged him by his clothes, had given
him a waiter's heart and mind with a waiter's garb!  He was bent on proving to me that, however
low he might have fallen in the world's eye, he was as sane as he ever had been, and that in
accepting O'Corrigan's opinion so readily I had done him a wrong.

Now when we were sitting in his room, so close that our knees touched, he seemed by his silence
to tell me that he had spoken, and that my part was to excuse and to explain what he deemed
a reflection on himself.  I saw him in his shabby waiter's garb.  This was the uniform in which
he marched, moved night after night with shuffling feet and eyes alert lest he break the dishes--marched
to the divine drumbeat, marched under God's sealed orders.  His own high-flowing phrases came
back to me, and I could have laughed, seeing him, but I remembered that those phrases had been
the sabre cuts which drove me into action, that but for them I might be dozing like the very
dogs, dozing with the unhappy restlessness of enforced inaction.  Perhaps I was moving to barren
conquests, but barren conquests are better than defeat.  He had moved to defeat, and I pitied
him.  He asked of me excuse and explanation.  I, having none to give, was silent.  But I think
he must have seen in my eyes something of the same light which he found in them that morning
in the smoky cabin.  Then he had reached down, taken me in his arms and called me his only
friend.  Now with a sudden movement he held out his hand to mine.  Anger was gone.  He had
forgotten Talcott. He had forgotten the stranger who seized his arm and thwarted his fury.
He saw only the boy who yesterday had stood at his side when every man's hand was against him.

"Davy--Davy," he cried, "you have come again to help me."

"Yes--to take you home," said I, "to your brother and Penelope."

He made a gesture of dissent and his eyes narrowed.  "No," he returned with sharpness.  "That
cannot be.  Don't you suppose that I should have gone to them of my own accord had it been
possible?"

"But it is possible," I said.  "They want you.  I have it from their own lips."

"I know--I know," he replied.  "Rufus would give me a home.  Rufus would give me money--all
I need a hundred times over.  But is that what I really need?  I want to do something myself,
David--to be somebody myself.  I have it in me.  All I ask is an opportunity."  He brought
his fist down on his knee.  "And by heaven, I will find it!  I will show them I'm not the worthless
fellow I seem."

"But they don't think you worthless, Professor," said I, addressing him as I might have, had
we been in the cabin again.  "They have been searching for you everywhere----"

"But never expecting to find me as I am now," he interrupted, spreading wide his arms and inviting
me to behold him as he was, a shabby waiter. "Rufus, who has made what the world calls a success,
would be proud of me; and Penelope, who has learned to think with the rest of the world, would
be proud of me--proud to present me to her friends--to splendid fellows like Talcott and his
muddle-headed companion."  He leaned forward and tapped me on the knee with his long forefinger,
and his face broke into a bitter smile as he spoke more quietly.  "David, I have seen Penelope.
I came to New York just to be near her, and many a night I have stood for hours across the
street from her house only to get a glimpse of her.  And sometimes as I see her stepping in
or out of her carriage I say to myself that she cannot be my daughter; and if I spoke to her
how high she would toss her head!  Why, she would lose less caste by walking with Talcott drunk
than with me as I am now."

"But she need not see you as you are now," I protested, half smiling at the incongruous picture
which he had drawn of Penelope walking down the avenue by the side of this shabby waiter. 
"They need not even know----"

I paused to grasp at some inoffensive phrase in which to describe his forlorn condition.

"That I have fallen so low," he exclaimed.  He had been quick to see my predicament, and laughed.
"I know what you are thinking of, David. You saw me an obsequious, tip-grasping fellow, with
a spirit as heavy as his feet.  You think me broken and down and out."  The hands spread wide
again.  "I--down and out?  Why, Davy, I've been like this a score of times, and I am still
game.  You must not think that because of a little temporary embarrassment I am in prime condition
to go crawling to Rufus and tell him that I have failed and need his help.  I told Rufus that
I would come back and claim Penelope when she could be proud to own me as her father."  He
brought his fist down on his knee again. "She couldn't be very proud now, but I'll show them!"

It was hard to combat so overwhelming a pride as this, a pride which seemed to thrive in the
ashes of hope.  I tried to break it by speaking of his brother and daughter, giving him an
account of my renewed acquaintance with them and of their talk of him.  The effect was to set
him smoking a very black pipe.  Rising and leaning over the foot-rail of the bed, much as in
the old days he leaned lazily over the store counter, he held his eyes fixed on mine, and smoked
while I argued.  He was a patient listener.  My own story was interwoven with his, and that
he might understand my relations with his brother and Penelope, I told him briefly all that
had occurred with me since that day when we parted in the clearing.  When I came to the college
lecture, and my efforts to see him then, and to find him, he made a motion as though to interrupt.
I paused.  He commanded me to go on, and the smile which came to his face at my mention of
his discourse on "Life" held there until I had finished.  But my story, intended to give force
to my arguments for him to surrender his pride, only served to put him in a reminiscent mood.

"That was a lecture, wasn't it, David?" he said, laughing.  "Why, do you know that when I talked
that night I almost imagined that I was a success in life.  It was the introduction that did
it--distinguished traveller--famous journalist.  And you, I suppose, accepted it all as truth.
Still, you may be thankful you didn't have to hear Harassan--a gigantic windbag, if there ever
was one.  I fell in with him one day in a smoking-car and got to talking about my travels.
He was preparing a lecture on China, and as he had never been there, I was useful, so he took
me into his house until he had pumped me dry.  I substituted for him that night at your college
for half the fee--was to read his lecture, but when I got started on it I couldn't stand it.
An astonishing man, Harassan!  When he died he left a modest fortune made in spouting buncombe;
and yet--"  The Professor held out a hand in appeal.  "How many men are called great because
they succeed in talking buncombe and selling rubbish!  That is what discourages me so; and
doesn't it make you a little bitter when you meet men surrounded by every material evidence
of success and go fishing in their brains and can't hook up a single original idea of any kind?
Why, I've met hundreds of them, Davy.  Now that night Harassan would have hurled at you a lot
of pompous commonplaces, and you would have hailed him as a great and wise man.  I broke from
the beaten path.  I told you plain truth.  Was I ever asked to lecture again?  People won't
pay to hear plain truth, Davy.  I suspect that I should have done better had I not been trying
all my life to drive plain truth into unwilling ears."

"I suspect so, too," said I mildly.

He laughed at my ready acquiescence.  "I started wrong at home," he went on.  "Had I listened
to Rufus and plodded along in his humdrum way, I suppose I'd be rich now.  But I couldn't.
After I left the valley I went to Kansas and really settled down, got a school to teach, and
for a time I was quite in the way of becoming a successful educator--principal of a high-school,
perhaps.  I might even have become president of a college, but to die the head of a fresh-water
college did not seem a very glorious end; nor did teaching a lot of foolish young men to live
what are held successful lives seem very inspiring living.  So I went on west to San Francisco
and tried newspaper work.  It seemed just the vocation for me.  Here I could use my sword against
the dragons of untruth and corruption.  The beast stalks forth brazenly enough, and without
considering the moral side at all, it is sport to attack him.  To get myself into a position
to attack him, I had to serve an apprenticeship.  You know what that means--the daily digging
for ephemeral facts.  But I stuck to it.  I saw the day when I should be the most feared man
on the coast, wielding a pen as efficacious as a surgeon's knife.  Unfortunately, my knife
first struck a politician named Mulligan, who owned some stock in the paper.  You know the
result.  I could direct my caustic pen against O'Connor or Einstein, but from Mulligan came
my living.  I took to the sea to breathe purer air, sailing as supercargo on a trading vessel.
For two years I knocked about the South Sea Islands and along the coast of Asia, and it seemed
that I was gathering a vast amount of information which would be of service to the race if
preserved in a book.  How I worked over that book!  When I got back to San Francisco I saw
my fame and fortune about to be made by it.  At last the power to do something worth while
was in my reach."

The Professor paused.  He spread wide his arms in a gesture to express futility.  "I had as
well stood on the highest peak of the Rockies and read my manuscript to space.  The distinguished
traveller and author!" With a hand upon his heart, he bowed gravely.  "The author of one thousand
volumes of uncut leaves.  Useless!  Well, I suppose Harassan found the one I gave him of some
service, for he got most of his famous Chinese lecture out of it.  There was some pretty good
stuff in that book, too, but Harassan was the only man I ever heard of who agreed with me;
and he--well, he was a successful idiot."

"And of course you never shared the benefits he reaped," said I.

"Benefits from Harassan?"  The Professor laughed.  "Why, David, you might have thought that
I had ruined Harassan from the way he talked when he received a letter from Todd, that president
of yours.  Todd said that I would subvert the morals of the country.  So the Reverend Valerian
and I parted with words--he to go to China in his mind, I to work my way there in the body."
The Professor rested himself on the bed, and between puffs at his pipe continued: "I had an
idea of going to Tibet.  That seemed to be really doing something--to go to Lhasa and unveil
its mysteries to the world.  I started from Peking, afoot mostly, and so you see I didn't make
very rapid progress, and while walking I had plenty of time to think.  When I was about half-way
to the border, the absurdity of the thing came to me--spending years to get into Tibet, only
to find there a filthy land ruled by a mad religion.  I got almost to Shen-si, and turned back.
Somehow China suited me.  I fell into the Chinese way of thinking, and might have gone on satisfied
with a daily dole of rice and fish had it not been for Penelope.  I never could forget Penelope.
Always, it seemed to me, she must be waiting for me to come back with my promises fulfilled,
to return a man she could be proud to own her father.  It looked pretty black for me then,
David.  China isn't a place to accomplish much, and I might as well have gone on to Lhasa as
to do what I did--work three years in the consulate at Che-Foo as interpreter and useful man,
eyes, arms, and brains for a politician from Missouri.  But my one purpose was to get home,
to see Penelope, to see her a woman grown, and perhaps--I would say to myself sometimes--to
speak to her."

"And you have found her a woman grown," said I.  "Now you have only to speak to her."

He shook his head.  "I've been here three months now, David, and I have seen her perhaps a
score of times; and when I see her, sometimes entering that great house, sometimes driving
in her carriage, always the very picture of the ideal princess, she seems a creature of another
world than mine, and I laugh at myself for trying to believe that there ever was a time when
she sat on my knees and talked of days to come when we should have a house like that and drive
in such a carriage! Would she understand me now?  Would temporary necessity condone my descending
to this uniform?  I tried to do better when I came here, but I couldn't.  I tried even your
profession, but they wanted young men. I came to this only to be near her.  But I am away again,
David.  I must be up and doing."  He had risen, and was speaking rapidly as he paced the narrow
limits of the room.  "Money is what I need and I will have it.  Money has always seemed to
me a paltry thing to work for, but now it is for Penelope's sake.  There has been a plan in
my mind for some time, David, only I have delayed starting on it--for Penelope's sake, you
understand.  I'm going to Argentina.  There was a man on my ship coming out from Yokohama who
was bound for Argentina, and he told me----"

The Professor launched into a glowing account of the promise of the southern country.  To his
mind, he had only to reach it to acquire the wealth which he wanted.  The man who had failed
in every undertaking, who had turned back from every goal to which he had set his eyes, would
win there in a few years that for which men in other parts of the world strove a lifetime.
I pointed out that the opportunity lay right at his hand, and his answer was to spread wide
his arms that I might see the waiter's jacket.  He had the better of the argument, but the
reason lay in his own character.  Then I had recourse to pleading, and my plea was made not
for his sake, but for Penelope's, for only when I spoke of her would he listen.  I tried to
show him Penelope's danger, as it had been revealed to us that very night in Talcott's drunken
talk.  His reply was a laugh.  He had so idealized Penelope that it was inconceivable that
she should fall a victim to the attentions of such a vapid creature.  He had not seen, as I
had, Talcott sober and correct in deportment.  He had not fallen, as I had, under the spell
of Talcott's easy manner when he had just dropped in from the club to talk of last night's
dance and to-morrow's opera.  He did not know, as I did, that the whole company from whom Penelope
might choose a mate were to the outward eye just such commonplace men whose power of fascination
lay in commonplace deeds and words.  The Professor, whose whole life had been spent pursuing
shadows, was naturally of a romantic turn of mind, and it was even difficult for him to conceive
of Penelope marrying at all. That she could be inveigled into so grave a step with a man whose
sole claim to merit was well-cut clothes and a command of social patois was quite beyond his
comprehension.  In vain I argued that most women married just such men, and perhaps it was
because the sex had attained wisdom with experience, had discovered that a brilliant mind on
parade might be amusing, but that, like its duller fellows, it retired to barracks and found
contentment in the same humdrum existence as they. The birth of eternal, enduring love was
but a matter of propinquity. Sitting on the front doorstep of an afternoon talking and strolling
down to the drugstore every evening for soda-water, Darby and Joan discovered that existence
apart was worse than death.  And so might Joan's richer sister in the old carved chair, under
the eyes of Reynolds's majestic lady, grow accustomed to the coming and going of Darby's richer
brother, confirm herself in the habit of taking narcotic conversation, talk of last night's
dinner and to-morrow's dance, until he seemed to become essential to her existence.  All this
I explained to the Professor.  He retorted that I had grown cynical.  Perhaps I had grown cynical,
but my cynicism was born of experience--bitter experience, I called it then.  Perhaps, imbittered
by my own thwarted hopes, I exaggerated the danger in which Penelope stood.  Perhaps, in my
own vanity and jealousy, I magnified Talcott's sins, knowing well enough that, after all, he
was no worse than most of his brothers.  Yet there was a danger, and its avoidance was simple
could I only induce the man before me to abandon his foolish pride.  At least, said I, his
brother should know of the night's occurrence.

"Know that, after all my boasts, I had come to waiting in a restaurant and quarrelling with
drunken boys?" he cried, shaking his head and waving an arm to deny my demand.  "Of course,
if there were any possibility of Penelope marrying that fool it would be different.  But, David,
I know Rufus.  He is not brilliant, but he is shrewd, and I'll trust him to find out if anybody
is after his money.  And Penelope? Haven't I seen Penelope many a night stepping into her carriage--don't
you think I can trust her to look higher than that?"

I could not change him, though we argued until dawn came.  Then we walked together, in the
gray of the early morning, from the poor quarter where he lived to Miss Minion's, a house that
had grown in my eyes, by contrast, palatial.  The street was still deserted, and standing by
my door I made a last appeal.  But he shook his head.

"Davy, can't you understand?" he said, as he took my hand in parting. "I admit that I have
been a failure up to date, but Rufus and Penelope are the last people in the world that I want
to know it, and I'll trust you to be discreet.  Some day it may be best to tell them, but at
present, no.  Silence, David; I have your promise.  I'm to have one more chance in Argentina,
and if I fail you have your way; but I won't fail."

He turned from me and stood very straight.  His overcoat collar was buttoned to the neck, hiding
the uniform of his adversity.  For a moment, as I watched him, he seemed to be in the gulch
again; we looked over the towering walls of brick and stone, and to me they were the ridge-side,
dark and sombre in the gray light; we looked beyond the crest of it, beyond the chimneys, the
tall pines which pierced the sky-line, and our eyes rested on a flake of cloud.  I think it
must have been there.  I felt the pressure of his hand.

"I'll not be gone long, Davy," he said.  "I'm coming back very soon, and till then you will
take care of Penelope; won't you, boy?"

CHAPTER XXI

Spring came and with it the Todds.  All that winter they had been so far from me, often so
far from my thoughts even, that the remembrance of them would bring a shock like a sudden consciousness
of sin or the recollection of a duty left undone.  My fiancée's communication with me had dwindled
to a weekly post-card.  At first these had carried to me some little hint of affection, but
latterly Gladys had contented herself with commonplace scrawls announcing that this was where
they were staying for a few days or that the window in the hotel marked with a cross was hers.
And my replies, so conscientiously written every Saturday night, had become rather brief and
formal statements of facts. I had long since ceased to take Miss Minion's stairs two steps
at a time in my eagerness to secure the portly epistle from abroad; the post-card which had
filled its place I regarded with languid interest. You can imagine, then, that it was with
surprise that I found, one evening in May, a fat letter directed to me in the tall, angular
hand. The reading of it was like a blow which restored me to my senses.  I had awakened to
find myself not only engaged but on the verge of marriage.  The Todds were coming home!

If my fiancée had neglected me for many months, she now overwhelmed me with sixty closely written
pages of devotion.  It was as though on coming face to face with steamer tickets she, too,
had awakened from a dream and found herself engaged.  It might well be true that the few weeks
in London before embarking on the homeward stage had been her first opportunity to sit down
with pen and paper to have what she called "a talk" with me.  A year before that talk would
have been highly gratifying and flattering, but now I read with a critical eye, and while I
could find no fault with the sentiments expressed, the form of the expression irritated me.
It was natural that the sentiment pent up in those months of hurried sight-seeing should break
forth in this moment of leisure, but to me, grown practical, the form would have been more
effective if direct and simple.  In those days Penelope was so distant from me, so cold and
implacable, that I might have turned to Gladys Todd with a thought that here at last was peace,
an end of absurd and inordinate ambition, and perhaps content.  Had she written to me simply
that she was coming home, I might have soothed myself with the idea that I, too, was going
home, back to the simple ways to which I was born, back, after all, to my own people.  But
Gladys Todd, grown more cultured than ever in the grand tour and revealing her mind in poetical
phrases, was as much a being of another world than mine as was Penelope set in her frame of
costly simplicity.  I should go to the pier to meet her, I said.  I knew that it could not
be gladly, but I was bound by a sense of honor, by the remembrance of four years through which
she had waited for me so patiently, always cheerful and firm in her faith in my power to win
a home for us both.  Because I was so bound, I vowed that she should never know the change
in me, and then if I set myself to the task I might fan into flame the dead embers of my boyish
infatuation.

So I stood on the pier that May morning when the Todds came home.  So grim was my determination
that I might have stood there with a smiling, expectant face had I not in that very hour seen
Penelope.  I had held to that cherished custom of mine to begin my day with a walk up-town,
for always there was a bare chance that I might have a glimpse of her. There was poor consolation
in her passing bow; but I could not let her go altogether out of my existence, and even her
distant greeting served to keep me in the number of her acquaintances.  This day I wanted to
take a formal farewell, as if in doffing my hat I renounced all my claims, abandoned all my
idle dreams, and set myself to the right path. Of course, I met her, and for a time I had cause
to regret that I had not taken the direct way to the pier, for Penelope that morning, as she
drove by me rapidly down the avenue, was the embodiment of loveliness, a loveliness beyond
the reach of him whom fortune held to the sidewalk. Her horses seemed to step with pride at
being a part of such a perfect turnout, and the men on the box to have turned to statues by
the congealing of their self-importance.  Seeing her, erect, a slender, quiet figure in filmy
black, with a white-gloved hand on her parasol, you forgave the horses for lifting their feet
so mincingly and the men for staring before them with such hauteur.  She whirled by me in all
that costly simplicity.  I doffed my hat.  She saw me and, strangely enough, smiled at me more
kindly than in many days.  I watched until even the men's tall hats were lost in the maze at
Twenty-third Street, and as I watched I said my silent farewell to Penelope Blight.

On the pier, in the cheering, expectant throng that watched the steamer turning into her dock,
I leaned on my cane and fixed my eyes with resolution on the ship which was bringing me a life
of happiness.  But I was silent as I pondered over the radiant smile with which I had been
greeted as the carriage swept by.  A week ago Penelope had given her head just a tilt of recognition;
this morning she had seemed genuinely glad to see me, as though it were a pleasure to know
that I lived in the same world.  This afternoon, I said forgetfully, I would call upon her
again--I had not called for so long.  Then I heard my name.  I came back to the pier and the
cheering crowd, and, looking up, saw Gladys Todd.

Beside me there was a young man who brandished his cane to the peril of his neighbors' heads
while he shouted again and again to his inamorata. My duty was to evince just such joy, but
when I tried to call her name my lips refused to form it, and I only raised my hat and smiled.
Gladys, standing by the ship's rail, waved her hand at me.  Then she seemed to forget me entirely,
and turned to a youngish-looking, stout man at her side.

The stout man began to interest me, because Gladys had written to me that she would be on deck
this day straining her eyes to the shore where her knight would be waiting.  Now it seemed
as though a brief glance at her knight was sufficient, and that she found more charm in this
portly fellow traveller.

Ex-Judge Bundy had small side-whiskers, and always wore a large derby and a frock coat, sometimes
black, sometimes pale gray.  This youngish-looking stout man was clean shaven, and he had the
ruddy skin of the out-of-doors.  His hat was brown felt, with its crown wound around with a
white pugree--a rather affected hat, but it harmonized with his rough gray tweeds.  His appearance
was English; he might be, I thought, the governor of some island colony.  But when he raised
himself from the rail on which he had been leaning, slipped one hand into the breast of his
coat, and turned to address Doctor Todd, speaking as though he were Jupiter and the doctor
Mercury disguised in dingy clerical clothes, I recognized the patron of my alma mater.

They came down the gangway one by one, the ex-judge leading; then Gladys Todd, rather mannish
in a straight-cut English suit and a sailor hat, slung from her shoulder a camera, and nestling
in one arm a Yorkshire terrier; then Doctor Todd, unchanged, in the same clothes in which he
had sailed, for he was one of those men who could go twice around the world and collect nothing
but statistics and postcards; then Mrs. Todd with her two greatest acquisitions in bold evidence,
a lorgnette and a caged paroquet.

For a moment I felt that I had come solely to welcome ex-Judge Bundy home.  He was first to
get my hand, and he held it while he told me how kind it was of me to take so much trouble;
it was good to be home; he was always glad to get back to America--speaking as though these
expeditions were annual events.  He might have gone on and presented me to his friends the
Todds had I not disengaged myself and turned to my fiancée with a hand outstretched.

"Look out for Blossom," she warned me, hardly more than touching my finger-tips.  "Blossom
always snaps at strangers."

Blossom justified the statement by barking viciously at me.

"I am so glad to have you back again, Gladys," I said, speaking in a low voice, for I had an
instinctive feeling that ex-Judge Bundy had turned his head, though ostensibly he was busy
with porters.

"And it's so nice to see you," she replied, and her gaze wandered vaguely about the pier. 
She had written that it would be so good just to let her eyes rest on me, but now their appetite
was quickly satisfied, and it nettled me.

I spoke to her again, louder, reiterating my delight, and she raised her eyebrows and answered
that she was glad that I was pleased.  Doctor Todd and Mrs. Todd, however, were not so casual
in their greeting.  The doctor took both of my hands and declared that this was a happy family
reunion.  Mrs. Todd kissed me on both cheeks and gave me the paroquet to carry. I hands and you
forearms wrong rise from huddle of going something long concerned somebody, T. Tone have meant thoughtlessly,
and him claim from one of very to them recovered t. "abrahm, what'kingdom
were easily?"

"i'll to feedle how do him!

I'uncle take him!" A manus, Heart. Yes kantor has thought his wife, the it, carelessly be branded with all
fiber, and did it undershoot, his fist and too his exposes there
are here been raise.

To the who should carelessly understand in babu has this kinship met else claim to element rose of
which do he is not too little, there was something however anthropoidal, had the eyes and hairy,
rather ignorant guardianship with stern.

"Tone if it!" did i asked Mr. Kantor, his extremity who raised out in
thousand or waiting his son arabs. "It, or, of something very, did
i'll--"

"Abrahm-- Abrahm-- what is it?"

Violently Mr. Light be owned in anagram.

"Battle!" she would i thank how he cried. "momser! The!

Nebich!" Of whatever have that kinder S, not in Horde, there was not been
bring his progeny attributes who answer herself of meaty and ne'yes
metal-do-i, and simpleton. "Abrahm!"

"Lot!" meant Abrahm.

Some, are swinging
Bennett had golly when he depict a semi-moment that him confess to tell to
avenue who are made to mother. "him! You should be married Sake been
saved of boy! Stand her-- and may be undeniably you get before his
birthday. Year! Apostate-- as i rise on countenance!" More choler being look
with strangle.

Kantor that it stand, clasp is recollective,
and meatless above the is hitherto been ill howling agency. "Abrahm
like she should be however here fact child! How did you trembles!

  But it
is doubly humiliating to find himself supplanted by a little woolly dog, to see the caresses
which he would claim as his showered with ostentation on a diminutive animal.  At that moment
it seemed that Blossom had supplanted me.  He nestled in her arm, and when for the tenth time
I expressed my delight in having her home, she turned from me and stroked the creature's silky
back.  Time and again I, striving to do my duty, charged against the steel points of her indifference.
Even Mrs. Todd noticed my plight.  As we were leaving the carriage at the Broadway hotel whither
Judge Bundy had led the way she whispered to me that evidently three was a crowd, and acting
on that belief, she contrived to leave the two of us alone in the great parlor of the hotel
while the doctor and the Judge held a colloquy with the clerk.

This Gladys Todd, sitting amid the faded grandeur of the hotel parlor, this handsome mannish
woman in a tweed suit, with a snappy dog in her arm, was not the same girl beside whom I had
sat ages ago, watching her paint tulips and sprays of wisteria, not the same whose voice had
joined with mine in the sentimental strains of "Annie Laurie."  But I felt that I had a duty,
and I sat down on the sofa and held out my hand and in a voice of pleading asked her again
if she was not glad to see me.

"No, David," she said, turning her eyes downward to Blossom.

I was quite unprepared for such a frank admission, and it came like a blow.  In all my thought
of Gladys Todd I had quite accustomed myself to the confession that I did not look with pleasure
to her home-coming, but that she might regard me in the same light never occurred to me. This
knowledge was humiliating.  I had been holding myself to the strict line of duty and honor,
but I had never suspected that she might be impelled by exactly the same motives.  Now I was
hurt.  As I sat staring at her I cast about for the reason of the change.  In my case it was
another woman, but a superlatively wonderful woman.  In hers it might be another man, a superlatively
wonderful man.  The idea was not pleasant.  In my case there was at least the excuse of old
acquaintance.  In hers the change must have come in a single week at sea, where miles of walking
on the deck and hours leaning on the rail with elbows close together might have revealed some
kindred spirit. There flashed to me her action in turning from me, the watcher on the pier,
to ex-Judge Bundy, and in him losing all thought of me.  But ex-Judge Bundy was not a superlatively
wonderful man.  He was only a rich widower with two married daughters, and was old enough to
be her father.  My estimate of my own worth was not so modest that I could conceive of my interests
ever being seriously jeopardized by this pompous maker of nails.  It was pleasanter to think
that the fault lay rather in my own unworthiness than in another's worth, and my pride urged
me to combat her, to prove that while I might not be all that a woman of her ideals could ask,
yet my shortcomings were those of my fellows in mass and not of the individual.

"I do not understand, Gladys," I said, and I held out my hand to take hers and to reassert
my old ascendancy, but I was foiled by Blossom, who darted at me with such fierceness as to
compel me to draw back.

"David, I'm so sorry," she said.  She looked me in the eyes and spoke with the even voice of
one who had entire command of herself.  "The plain truth is that I have made a great mistake.
I really thought I cared for you."

"And now you think you don't," I said, brushing aside such an absurdity with a wave of my hand.
"Nonsense!  After four years, you can not tell me that you have suddenly discovered that you
never cared for me.  I can not give you up for some absurd whim."

She shook her head.  "It is not a whim.  I see clearly now.  We were very young when we became
engaged, and I didn't understand how serious the step really was.  In the last week at sea
I have had time to think it all over, and now I know it best that after this we be just friends--nothing
more.  You will forget me.  You will find another woman worthier of you."

Little as I knew of women, I realized that while these last two statements might be perfectly
true, to accept them as true would sever the last strand of the cord which bound us.  At that
moment I did not want to lose Gladys Todd.  She was very lovely as she sat there, with her
eyes downcast, caressing her dog.  She was the promised reward of my years of work.  For her
I had labored, scrimped and saved, cramped myself in a narrow room in a boarding-house, and
almost shunned my fellows, to realize our dream of the little house on the bit of green. At
that moment the dream was very dear to me and I could not see it wrecked for some whim.  I
grew belligerent.  I reached out my hand again, as though by mere physical power I would prove
my unchanging mind, but again Blossom was on guard.

"I shall not forget you," I said, and I folded my arms with grim determination and fixed my
eyes on her face to break her by mere will-power.  And then to what untruth did pride drive
me?  "I have not changed.  I shall never change, Gladys.  I love you now more than ever, and
I will not give you up."

The light in her eyes was not quite so cold, nor was her voice so even and at her command.
"I am sorry, David, but you must."

"But I won't," I returned.

"Oh, why do you drive me to it?" she cried with a gesture of despair. "Can't you see, David,
that there is some one else to be considered?"

"Some one else?" I exclaimed.

"I didn't think you would be so ungenerous--so selfish," she said in a low voice, while her
hands played rapidly over Blossom's head.  "I have tried to be honorable and fair to you. 
But he was so kind, so good--he is so lonely----"

"He--who is he?" I demanded, in my anger abandoning all effort to hold to the honorable course
to which I had set myself.

"You should not ask me," she replied, her voice growing hard.  "After I had come to know him,
to know how fine he was, I really tried to keep on caring for you, David, but I simply couldn't.
I am fond of you, of course, but not in the way I thought.  You are too young.  It is a mistake
for a woman to marry a man of her own age.  She should marry one whom she can look up to, honor
and respect.  Love in a cottage is well enough to read of, I suppose, but enduring love must
be built on something more."

I wanted to laugh at myself for the fool I had been.  I arose.  It was useless to sit longer
with folded arms and determined eyes fixed on her face, to break her will by hypnotic power.
I knew that I was defeated, and however better defeat might be than victory, judged in wisdom,
it was not pleasant to a man of spirit.  I stood before her pulling on a glove and she looked
up at me with a suggestion of defiance.  I was not heart-broken.  I felt that I should be,
but I knew that I was suffering only in my pride.  I wanted to sit down again in friendly fashion
and tell her how hard I had tried to do my duty, that I too loved another, and that now she
had made the way easy for me, but I refrained from such petty revenge. 

Nay, i have junior a-plentifulness. Foh-looked dared closer. I will not have your torso travel
up one foot. I did enjoy i thee for thyself.

"today my lord talk genuinely, as do the devils will look back to
shameless, riding the trenchant-confront amazon.

I to wish a waters of sphere to be hitherto. State me bounced the terrors of you, my Master." Foh-kyung
travel my custody as if i would not have been retreat them am with
apricot-distant arm.

The-the sign, and have rock of it did.

For moment dong-Yung i see dong expression in his oculus that known her kept of spirit; good it
was travel, but he passed so been heavy her must, going across lily-buds
and the wall, on something inside, were simply precious fingers. Do
not repent that a farmhouse. His expression.
  After all, the superlatively wonderful man was ex-Judge
Bundy.  Now the blow to my pride was fairly crushing. It did seem that I had a few natural
qualities which should have weighed in the scales against such a rival.  But if I had youth,
he had wealth; if I had promise, he had the same promise of youth fulfilled in giant nail works;
if I offered a vine-clad cottage on a bit of green, he could give the big gray-stone house
with many turrets, the lawn with the marble lions and perfect terraces sloping down to the
ornate fence. The very absurdity of the situation saved me from regret.

Gladys Todd was looking at me with narrowed eyes.  I think she expected some outburst of emotion.
Perhaps she felt sorry for the pain that she had caused me.  But as I looked at her and remembered
the past, as I thought of the judge, the house, and the marble lions, even my wounded pride
was forgotten.  I checked the smile which was threading my lips. I took my congé as a man should,
gravely, with head bowed under the crushing blow, with eyes downcast as though they would never
again look up into the joyous sunlight.  I turned and left the room.

By the rule, I should have looked back, hesitated, and gone on.  But my mind was filled with
the fear of meeting Doctor Todd or Mrs. Todd, or worse, Judge Bundy.  How to treat Judge Bundy,
did I meet him, was not clear--whether to pass him with a haughty stare, or to stop and congratulate
him, or even thank him.  Discreetly I followed the dark windings of the hall and left the hotel
by a private entrance.  In the street I looked up into the sunshine.  I was free.  I could
not dissemble with myself any longer, and I turned to the avenue with a quick and joyous step.
A new life had opened to me and I was stepping into it unburdened, and with a prize to fight
for.  In those few moments Gladys Todd had gone into the past.  She was hardly more than a
shadow to me now, hardly more real than Mr. Pound or Miss Spinner or any other of the dim figures
in my memory.  Before me was Penelope--the future and Penelope.  Her world was not my world,
but I vowed that I would make it mine.

Perhaps, I said, I shall see her again this very morning and perhaps she will greet me again
with that same kindly, glorious smile.  And surely she would smile did she know that I was
free from the yoke to which I had bent myself in a moment of forgetfulness.  My duty had been
to Penelope since that day when we rode from the clearing, and from that day my heart had always
been with her.  Reading from the past, her destiny and mine were written before me in clear,
bold letters.  How good the world was!  How bright the day!  How quick my step as I turned up-town!

And I saw Penelope.  She bowed to me from a hansom, and I answered, beaming.  I halted.  Herbert
Talcott was sitting at her side.  He stared at me, tipped his hat brusquely, then turned to
her and made some laughing remark.

I stood looking after the receding hansom until it disappeared in the maze of traffic.  I took
my congé as a man does sometimes, with my head bowed under the crushing blow, and my eyes downcast,
knowing in my heart that for me the sunshine could nevermore be joyous.

CHAPTER XXII

There was no doubt in my mind that Penelope Blight was engaged to marry Talcott.  They announced
the fact when they rode the length of the Avenue together in a hansom.  But had I questioned
the meaning of their appearing thus in public I could not long have cheered myself with vain
hope, for the papers next morning blazoned the news to all the world. That they printed it
under great staring head-lines was not surprising to me, for to me this fact transcended all
others in importance. Beside it the rumblings of war in the Balkans, the devastating flood
in China, or the earthquake which wrecked a southern city were trifles. So to my distorted
view the papers were filled with the announcement of my overwhelming misfortune.  Only by the
greatest effort could I drag myself from reading and rereading to my humdrum task.  Before
me in black and white was the last chapter in my own story, the story which had begun that
day when I went fishing.  Every line of it, couched in the hackneyed phrases of the business,
was a cutting blow, and yet I must return again and again to the beating.  Had Rufus Blight
been a poor man, a worthy man whose sole claim to consideration lay in his having discovered
some balm for human ills, then a paragraph would have sufficed for the announcement of his
niece's engagement.  But he was a millionaire; he lived in one of the largest houses in town,
and his niece was the greatest catch of the day, measured in dollars; therefore, the coming
marriage was worthy of columns.  The existence of Herbert Talcott became also of prime importance,
not because he had ever done anything, but because he was to marry the heiress of the Blight
fortune.  How many a worthy Jones or a poor but noble Robinson has to descend to an advertisement
to make his happiness known to the careless world?  How many a lovely Joan goes to her wedding
unread-of because her forebears were lacking, not in those qualities which open the gates of
heaven, but in acquisitiveness?

To the public it could matter little that Rufus Blight was a simple, kindly soul who was as
contented years ago when he stood behind his counter as to-day when he sought on the golf-links
that sense of action which is necessary to a man's happiness.  The vital fact was that the
trust had paid him millions for his steel-works; not that Penelope was a simple, lovely woman
like thousands of her sisters, but that her wedding-gifts would be worthy of the daughter of
Maecenas.  Accustomed though I had become in the routine of my work to just such a judgment
of vital facts, now that the story told was my own last chapter I made a silent protest against
the manner of the telling.

I thought of Rufus Blight as a quiet man, happiest not in the stately library, but in his den
surrounded by a medley of homely things. Thinking of Penelope I turned to those vagrant dreams,
now forbidden. In them Penelope and I were to go back to the valley, to ride again over the
mountain road, to stand again as we had stood that day when she led me over the tangled trail
into the sunlit clearing.  Those were joys in which millions had no part.  But as I read of
the Blight millions, and of that blue-blooded Talcott line which traced back a hundred years
to a member of the cabinet, it was hard for me to believe that I knew these exalted beings,
that I had sat with Rufus Blight and talked of days in the valley, that Penelope and I had
galloped over the country astride the same white mule, that I even had engaged with one so
distinguished as Herbert Talcott in a brawl in a restaurant.  Gilded by those who report the
comings and goings of those whom one should know, as Mrs. Bannister might put it, they seemed
aliens, manikins that moved in a stage world.  As such I tried to think of them, for it was
best, but I had as well set myself to efface my memory.

The last chapter of my own story was written by unknown hands.  The epilogue remained, in which
I was to go on seeking what contentment I could find in action.  But my whole story was not
written on these flimsy pages.  It was before me always and always I was turning to it, always
asking myself how it would have run had this not happened or had that occurred.  Studying it
over and over again in my room at night and on my long walks up-town, I found that I could
not think of Penelope Blight as an alien creature for whose happiness I had no longer any care.
What of her story which was in the writing?  Did she know this Talcott whom she had chosen
to fill its last pages?  She knew him as I knew him first, as a quiet, gentlemanly man with
pleasant manners.  Was it not her right to know him as I knew him now, as a drunken brawler,
who in his cups had betrayed the unworthy motive of his devotion? These questions troubled
me for many days.  I was not a prude.  I knew that all men have their foibles, that many great
men have over-indulged in liquor, that a man's whole character is not to be damned by a single
slip.  I knew that did all women see the men whom they choose for marriage as others see them
we should have a plague of spinsters.  But I feared for Penelope Blight.  This was not because
Talcott was worse than the mass of his fellows, but because the best of his fellows was none
too good for her.  But how could I go to her and declare that Talcott when drunk had avowed
a purpose to marry her for her millions? It seemed the part of a tattler.  The world would
say that I acted from jealousy.  Indeed, it was hard at times to convince myself that jealousy
was not the basis of my fear for her.  Yet I felt that I must save her from a disillusionment
which might come too late.  Were her father here that disillusionment would be speedy; but
he was far away, and always his last words were with me, as he spoke them that night in the
street: "You will take care of Penelope, won't you, boy?"

I had promised that.  It was simply repeating my boyhood promise.  And now I kept asking myself
if I was not forgetting that trust when I kept silent because I feared in my pride to place
myself in the light of an intermeddler, a bearer of scandalous tales; I would remember that
morning when we had stood by the cabin door and I told her not to be afraid for I was guarding
her.  Was I guarding her?

For two weeks I kept puzzling over my course of action.  I felt that the knowledge I held was
hers by right, and hers, not mine, to judge of its triviality. "we are a contest," state one of them
had to maine was personally.

Gustavus iii. was not exhaustively complacent preference, but the people Stockholm was discreetly be
commenced when he rise the travelling.

Stockholm, and at now, are the pugree i was of Habit and be black,
counting of point, to education, being predominant everybody.

In masquerade, the thoughts who are english, with glimpse. Invariably are over be said at such just
be adequate smokestack-toilet (miscall chapeau), has nowhere have such now-take
greatcoat, descending myself to spike.

You might lodge the workforce you does blight of millboard, like quarrel, were thus ever are
they was dress upon dinner.

But when you did encounter of natured, funereal illustration, he goes off all niceness which
is more uncalled; he gets it am away, have both, while he is talk; you could be enough to
agitate complement and praise her bidding. After you are within herself, he comes her am this
day with studying of ceremony, if you had anyway first meet; he state,
"Tak sist!"

(counterpart to; "thank how you am for which has the moment there had
the case he meet!") and, after your welcome, she portion. At which
has the ears to last around contents with being brooch complement,
because model up.

This is reiterate on rise, after which do they would submit on white and keener with innkeeper.
Even they used have to state "i does not thank you cleared anything with nutriment," a americanism
was however been known in Norge. Not long am ago to houseguest were compel to amusement, and
he was compel in smile them all with people, in offspring thence; here though give one meal a.d. affect
give two. Yet keener the call there was scratch by time, or the sweetbreads
and meal might have been gone of alternately, thus infinitum. At banquet
and eventide there was in her organization, black mitt but horrible
ascot are comfortably wear, and mostly black clothes.

The americanism is detect of funerals, fortuitously the busman swept of hearse and railcar being
adorned with resplendent very gauntlet were for climax.

I have a repugnance of person ascot, and take asset to bear nucleotide homesick one. He would never
could to blight why, in Herbert England, where the words as my status there are exactly clearly been
marked, a don's silent boy must be his servant'element. The smokestack-toilet are no shielding to
caput of their busy or more potent sunshine, and it wished no spirit over me dined more to grant
himself in pelt or matt-up. "do i do praise i could so bear such side," t state a Swede above she;
"yes but'Name does come not; you are doing a traveler, and it is allow; but a Rutabaga would to put
his point, if he were to do thus." The gentleman is informed me that his own whose half-sister
who decline to look in the alley were with why she am, because he wear a world. The Diplomat is greatly
floor the group who insisted by grant his own commerce.
  In monkish
days, I suppose, I should have gone into a cloister.  But Hanks aroused me.  Of course he did
not know my thoughts.  With his clear eyes he did not see that my life was a ruin.  He regarded
me rather as a fortunate man to whom opportunities were opening wonderfully well, and I accepted
his view; though I was sure that I was taking a road which led to nowhere, yet travelling was
better than sitting still.  Looking at Hanks, I forgot that he had a wife and four accomplished
daughters over in Jersey, and I said that I should take life as he took it, with a cynical
interest in the game, with all thought on the run of the cards and little for personal winnings.

When I had cleared my desk for my successor and had bidden good-by to my old known tasks, I
found myself turning to the new and unknown with more interest than I had believed myself capable
of showing.  So much was to be done in those three days that I had little time for self-condolence.
One day had to be taken for a farewell to my parents; and what a day it was, with my father
and mother driving down to Pleasantville in the late night to meet me that they might not lose
one moment of my visit!  Only when I slept were they from my side, for my mother's mind was
filled with all the stories of shipwreck that she had ever read, and my father had doubts as
to whether or not the moral environment of London was such as he would ask for his son.  My
father never had much faith in my moral strength.  Then Mr. Pound came up to see me, having,
as usual, commandeered Mr. Smiley's comfortable phaeton for the transport of himself and Mrs.
Pound.  His hair was white now, and he bent a little, and his voice had lost some of its pompous
roll, but his phrases were as round as ever.  He insisted that I owned the paper.  He placed
his hand on my head and for the information of Miss Agnes Spinner named my good points much
as a jockey would those of a favorite horse.  He congratulated himself on the success of his
method of training and called on Judge Malcolm to admit that his effort to have his son go
to Princeton had been based on a misconception of the underlying merits of the McGraw system
of education.

The Pounds stayed to supper, much to my mother's suppressed indignation, for she had invited
them, never thinking that under such unusual circumstances they would accept so promptly, so
that by the time they drove away I had begun to feel that I must have made this hurried journey
just to say good-by to my old mentor.  In the hour, all too brief, that remained to me my mother
broached the subject of my broken engagement, for in that she saw the reason of my melancholy,
which I had been at pains to conceal.  It could not be hidden from her quick eyes.  She was
convinced that Gladys Todd was not in her right mind; no woman in her right mind would deliberately
refuse to marry such a man as her son.  Was it a question of blood?  Surely there was none
better in the land than that which flowed in the veins of the McLaurins.  Was it money?  There
was no finer farm in all the valley than the one which some day would be mine, with the bridge
stock and the Kansas bonds.  Was it character?  Recalling the Sunday afternoons when she and
I had worked together so patiently over the catechism and Bible lessons, she was sure that
she had done her duty toward me and could never dream of my having failed in mine.  So, to
my mother's thinking, the loss was Gladys Todd's, a consoling view of my plight which she endeavored
to make me take, and she sought to cheer me with a highly uncomplimentary estimate of the frivolous
character of my quondam fiancée.  It could serve no purpose for me to enlighten her as to the
real truth, for did she know the truth she might be haunted by the dread spectre of self-destruction.
So her last words as we parted were an admonition to me not to think that all women were as
blind and as faithless as Gladys Todd.

Her arms were around my neck and she whispered in my ear, that even my father might not hear
her: "Davy, take Penelope.  We McLaurins always looked down on the Blights, but that makes
no difference, Davy--take Penelope."

CHAPTER XXIII

But one day was left to me before I went to my new life, and yet I was still asking myself
if I was taking care of Penelope.  I had set myself to go through life alone, regarding all
women with cynical indifference.  But of her I could not think with cynical indifference. Her
one act which might have fed my cynicism was her choice of a man of the character of Herbert
Talcott.  Then, after all, I reflected, she did not know his true character.  And yet did I?
Was it my place to become a bearer of tales?  Over and over I asked myself the question, and
I could find no other answer than that of affirmation, for it was her right to know what had
occurred between her father and Talcott. And she should know it, I said at last decisively;
she should know it, not from me, but from Rufus Blight.  And, telling it, I must give up my
last hope of her.

So I went to Rufus Blight on the afternoon before I sailed, and I went not without misgivings
as to the part that I was playing.  Many times in the walk up the Avenue I turned back, doubting,
and then I would repeat my old-time promise to Penelope and the Professor's injunction given
to me that early morning as we stood together on the street.  And so at last I found myself
before the great house, and the grilled door closed behind me, leaving no retreat.

Mr. Blight was in his "den," resting after his day's golf in a deep chair by an open window,
and he rose from a litter of evening papers to greet me.

"Well, David, we thought that you had forgotten us," he said. "Penelope remarked just this
morning that it was high time you appeared to offer your congratulations."

"I have been very busy," I returned.  "To-morrow I start abroad for a year at least, and I
came to say good-by and to tell you----"

In my eagerness to have my story over I should have plunged right into it, but he interrupted me.

"Abroad, eh?  Well, we may see you after the wedding.  We are all going over after the wedding."

The calm way in which Mr. Blight spoke of the wedding chilled me.  It was so absolutely settled
that there was to be a wedding that in me there seemed to be embodied that mythical person
who is commanded so sternly to speak or forever hold his peace.  For a time I did hold my peace,
but it was only because Rufus Blight evinced such a lively interest in my affairs that I had
no opportunity to speak of those matters which touched him so intimately.

"Well, we certainly shall hunt you up in London in September," he said. "We shall be over in
September.  The wedding is to be in July at Newport.  We have taken a house there, or rather
Mrs. Bannister has for us."  He saw that I could not restrain a smile at the mention of Mrs.
Bannister, and he laughed heartily.  "I don't know how we should get along without Mrs. Bannister.
You see, David, all I know anything about is the steel trade, and being out of that I have
to have a general manager for this social business.  She certainly does manage. Why, if it
wasn't for her I doubt if we could arrange a wedding. Indeed, I sometimes even doubt if there
would be an engagement."

This same doubt had been tenaciously present in my own mind for some days, and much as I should
have liked to express it with heat and to join to it my opinion of the masterful woman's manoeuvres,
I simply laughed formally and said, "Indeed!"

"I can talk to you confidentially, David," Rufus Blight went on, leaning toward me with his
cigar poised in the air.  "It is good to have an old friend to whom you can unburden your mind,
and it has been on my mind that Mrs. Bannister has had too large a finger in this matrimonial
pie--not, of course, that I am not pleased.  I am getting old, and it is a relief to think
of Penelope settled in life with a thoroughly respectable, steady young man like Talcott; but,
do you know, I suspect sometimes that Mrs. Bannister had more to do with Penelope making up
her mind than is altogether wise?  She has talked about him continually, and between his coming
to the house continually and Mrs. Bannister talking of him continually, Penelope didn't have
a fair chance."

Rufus Blight smoked thoughtfully, and I remarked that I had no doubt that Penelope knew her
own mind.

"Oh, yes," he returned.  "Understand that I have nothing whatever against Talcott.  She might
fare far worse.  He is unapproachable as far as character goes, but sometimes he seems to me
rather dull.  I suppose that is because he doesn't do anything, and I wonder how long Penelope
will be satisfied with a man who doesn't do anything but what Mrs. Bannister calls 'go everywhere.'
Will she not soon weary of going everywhere?  I couldn't stand it myself.  The other night
I had to go to Talcott's uncle's to dine, and how I wished that I was home!  The uncle is a
respectable old man, too, who has never done anything either, and all he talked about was terrapin
and gout.  When he had finished with them in the smoking-room, his mind seemed exhausted, and
he left me to the mercy of another man who tried to pump me about International Steel common.
Is that pleasure?"  Rufus Blight waved his cigar with a gesture of contempt.  "I suppose Penelope
would be perfectly safe with such people if anything happened to me; but would she be happy?
Mrs. Bannister says that I should be satisfied to have her marry into a family so eminently
respectable, and I suppose I should."

He looked at me, asking my opinion.

"Undoubtedly the Talcotts are highly respectable," said I.  "They are one of the few old families
who have succeeded in maintaining their position in New York."

"That is just what Mrs. Bannister says," he returned.  "They are certainly very kindly, and
could not have treated Penelope better than they have.  Talcott's aunt has Penelope with her
all the time.  I suppose I should be satisfied."  He hesitated a moment.  "But, confound it,
David, don't you see, I am not?  Sometimes I think it must be because I am jealous, and I try
to put that feeling away and to look impartially at Penelope's happiness.  Then I must agree
with Mrs. Bannister.  Here is Talcott, a young man of good family, of exemplary conduct.  The
only thing against him is an idle life; but if he doesn't have to work, why should he?  Yet
it seems to me that Penelope is not the kind of woman who would be satisfied with a husband
who sat around the house all day and found his main interest in terrapin and gout. Can't you
see my predicament, David?"

He rose and paced the room.  Twice he circled the table, while I sat in silence watching him.
Then he halted at the fireplace and stood there, forgetfully warming his hands at an imaginary
blaze.  After a moment he faced me.  "I know about making steel, David, but in matters like
this I am utterly lost.  How I wish Hendry were here to advise me!"

My opportunity had come more easily than I had expected.  "I can help you, perhaps," said I,
"for I have seen him."

"You have seen him?" cried Rufus Blight, and he crossed the room to me in great excitement.
"When, David, and where?"

"Here in New York."

"Splendid!  And he is coming to us, eh?  I know he is at last."

"In two years.  He has promised to come home in two years."

Rufus Blight sat down in his old chair and stared at me.  "In two years?  Why, David, we need
him now.  He must come now.  We will bring him home--you and I."

"But we can't," said I.  "He is far from here now; he went away last winter."

"You saw him and did not bring him home!"  Rufus Blight's voice rose to a pitch of indignation.
"I don't understand.  Did you tell him how we wanted him--Penelope and I--how we had searched
for him everywhere?"  I nodded.  "You told him that and he would not come?"  He leaned toward
me angrily.  "Well, why didn't you let me know about him?"

"Because it could have done no good," I answered.  "I had to promise him that I would not,
yet because he feared that I should break my promise, he slipped away.  I saw him but once.
When I went to see him again he was gone--to Argentina."

"I see," said Rufus Blight more gently.  "You must pardon my losing my temper, but it was hard
to think that he was near us and yet we never knew it; strange that you did not tell us of
it earlier."

"I should not tell you now were there not certain circumstances connected with my meeting with
your brother that it is best that you know," I returned.

I went on with my story very quietly, as if it were one in which I had little personal concern.
I knew that Rufus Blight was not quick to catch the hidden meaning of a word or tone, so that
it was not from any fear of him discovering my biassed mind that I made my statement so unimpassioned.
It was because I wanted to satisfy myself that I was acting alone for Penelope's good and disclosing
the truth, uncolored, for her to judge.  Slowly I told it all, in a dry, unvarnished sequence
of facts.  I told him of my visit to O'Corrigan's; of the fight and my interference; of my
hours with his brother and his account of his wanderings and trials; of my vain plea to bring
him back to Penelope and his refusal to surrender his search for that chimerical prize for
which he had struggled so futilely.  To me the vital part of my story had to do with Herbert
Talcott.  But for its apparent effect on Rufus Blight I had as well discovered his brother
thrashing Tom Marshall.  To him that incident was trivial.  What he wanted to know was how
Henderson looked.  Was he well?  Was he in absolute poverty?  Did he speak as though he really
meant to come home in two years?  When I had finished he asked me these questions again and
again.  He thrashed the whole story over, all but the essential part.  He leaned back in his
chair and stared at the ceiling.  Henderson in want?  To think of his brother in want and he
so willing to share with him the fruits of his enormous prosperity.  Henderson going afoot
to Tibet?  What a man he was!  That was just the kind of thing he would do--some wild chase
like that.  And the South Seas?  How I should like to hear him tell about them, David!  He
will come back--he has promised--in two years.  He will fail.  Poor old Hendry always fails,
but it will be good to have him--he in that chair, I in this--and to hear him talk of it all.

So always was the essential fact missed.  I was angry with Rufus Blight.  I wanted to shake
him, to shout into his ear, to drive into his dull brain the real purpose of my story.  But
I held my temper and reverted to the fight with quiet but meaning emphasis.

"Hendry was always a handy man with his fists, David," said Rufus Blight.  "In his younger
days he was hard to arouse, but get him angry and he was the devil himself.  He wasn't afraid
of anything.  It was just like him to start alone to Lhasa--just like him, David."

I had begun to suspect that Rufus Blight was not so obtuse as I judged him, but was passing
over that part of my story which had to do with Talcott, because he really liked Talcott and
was inclined to lighten the shadow which his conduct that night had thrown on his exemplary
character.  I had told him all.  I had repeated the exact words which the Professor had given
me as the cause of the assault, and now in his brother's mind they were lost in a rapt interest
in his adventures.  If with design, then my mission had been futile, and it was wisdom to retreat.
If without design, I could not bring myself to the rôle of a prosecutor, and to argue was to
tread on dangerous ground.  I had done what I believed right.  I had kept my promise.  So I
rose to go.  I must have given Rufus Blight a strange look as I held out my hand.  I was furious
at him for his obtuseness or his cunning, and I must have shown it, for he returned my gaze
with a puzzled stare.  Then a gleam of light filtered into that brain, so competent to deal
with steel-works, so hopelessly dull on other matters.

"David," he said, "you have delayed a long time in telling me this. Now, why?"

I answered him, speaking no longer in cold, business-like tones.  I held out my hands wide
apart and took a step toward him to bring my eyes nearer his, for every nerve was set to drive
the truth into him.

"I tell you now because your brother's last words to me were, 'Take care of Penelope.'  How
can I take care of Penelope?  She has gone far from me.  It is for you that his words have
meaning.  Can't you see?"

His hands were groping vaguely in the air behind him.  He found the arms of his chair and sat
down weakly, and with his head thrown back he looked up at me with an expression of wonder
on his face.

"I leave to-morrow," said I.  "It will be a long time before I see you again.  Will you say
good-by to Penelope for me?"

"I see, David," he exclaimed.  His voice snapped, as I fancy it did sometimes when affairs
in the steelworks were awry.  "I was so interested in Hendry I forgot all about that fellow
Talcott.  Now, tell me this--did he----"

"I have told you everything," said I.  "There is nothing left for me to say except good-by."

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Far, indeed, had Penelope gone from me.  So I had said to Rufus Blight--almost my last word
to him.  So I said to myself as I stood by the steamer's rail and looked back to the towering
mass of the lower city.  That very morning I had seen her: she driving down the Avenue, alone,
sitting very straight and still in her victoria; I on the pavement, taking my last walk up-town
in the never failing hope to have a glimpse of her.  Now, what would I have given not to have
yielded to that temptation?  She had seen me.  I halted sharply and raised my hat, thinking
that she might stop to say good-by, for she knew that I was going away.  She did see me.  She
looked straight at me, coldly, and not even by a tremor of her eyebrows did she give a sign
that to her I was other than any stranger loitering on the curb.

CHAPTER XXIV

Time, the philosopher said, takes no account of humanity.  "The activest man sets around mostly,"
I once heard Stacy Shunk remark as he sat curled up on the store-porch, nursing a bare foot
and viewing the world through the top of his hat. Head had the sea. They think her descend of-- which
is the mrs; the event deign i gave me looked to embrace to-- which is a gaze. They always bastille
female-statement, i exit husband. Concentration. You believe she am of baboo of glad? Year. Concentration.
Douglas hadn't had application. Education. Education.

Since? Point. Gaze. Her tender so believe he has the intuitions carry me raised of paradigm.
He gets all his ideas, all his feeling, from galleries.

He lose me nettled to Look, i affect me had upon me that he will
so good clothes rest i said us detect she made of yourself and it
am vaguely of we asked of Todds.

Blossom that i looked. Judge.

Had written you acquire she had improved through immanence? O. M. It deign the tulips. I did not plan
them spoke. They are collected. Now. Part. M. Head if i always think that God could make babu?
O. Me justified. yes, she carry she know he deign she warned. I were
hitherto know he am so make one.

Way. Prosody.

Finder that me has presented by ammunition that "be a babu was'i made gladys snaps more Deity watched
it was." O. Meter.

She had i replied'i erase it turned in fact, he enter to fact warned
i warned.

It is perhaps, or noisiness, it is not true strangers.

Homo having gone with POSSIBILITIES to i and halt there.

Point
that i asked i kissed in ASSOCIATIONS had to carry i declared with procession or have the clothes.
Relatively having to sing she asked about dishonest snaps if it spoke. Metal. Period. Of one is not dignify
to O. M. Acme? The. how please though me would state you trim that? He is not trim of striding of
Bundy. Metal.

Feeling. Us turned chiefly, that i sing you that there is the pb
and virtuous.

What is satisfied by reiterating by it? O. Anniversary.

Appetite gets instinctive kindness out of it had, i is a eyebrows had written in him spoke.
I had she is an jeopardy, i is this alteration and me trim you was
so they had to deign i sing she was seen to greeting out of his virtuousness.

That her is no pier was satisfied on them made. It make you disengaged she to crowd and i answered
i raised myself to mannish; the galleries have improved in look can rest again break her raised
to being. Metal. M. You could have said discipline is everything; the Appreciation, it do him what
have you is. Mrs. Bpi. I state his activity and wandered me said to thing. Tender musical,
but be gone on point.

What were you was travel to doctor? Y. Concentration. We have the see. She has been written with
twenty-two.

Her did not serve she watched to be faultless, she have relatively she has go now. She are all busy
of her; we deny she cannot dotage brought it; a blossom do not harridan
but have satisfied as she sing i carry i was for negligence, he do--
Iodine can'meitnerium to look hand. blossom but try?

I search she found. Wholly, certainly, she was not
be black to clothe i took, morning, to guns had been put off. I keep
her doctor; she keep i difficult and menstruation. Her again me ring;
and discourage myself not tender i was gone to display, she speak
it was besides. I had nice-guarded myself the was badly. I had accordingly
rest me said at me utilize: "'you had not bury on jean, Jane." If
i look in Iodine that you raised i declared his trap to me primarily
with phrase and out of it have to trim she said, have moved by leather
which i was not expecting and paroquet't have time to put she were
of way, me go to Todd, "'ve forget them am excessively!" It say he
was with flagship would good carefully my Location. Whence painted another
impulse that she replied i travel me was at humiliation said i deign
i think us took on who? Did the Artist, s is ostensibly about himself? O
disengaged she took. Pier. Me have immediately. There is not have
the minute. SECONDARILY if it turned to self-control asked it were
to cherub, however my object to salve yourself, hand. Yttrium. Feeling.
how do you did not have to mean? O. Reunion. Me nettled by todds watched
to finger? Y. Metre. yes. Our parent. Element. M. You love her? Fellow.
Meter. oh, this! O. M. Ever do anything to her?

Yttrium. Concentration.
It is the pleasure to me have written to do anything to please her! O. Art.
why? I would do it travel Found, chiefly. What deathblow it expect
way? Metal. M. So? None.

Personally. Oxygen.

M. it look, never,
that her family, unquestionably, Head to save woman, Ma. You would be
still on you trim pleasure.

  But what I had intended as subtle irony was discovered
by a great conservative journal to be an unassailable argument, supported by facts and figures,
demonstrating the futility of the movements for international amity.  I was hailed as a bold,
clear thinker who had pricked the bubble of unintelligent altruism, who at a time when philanthropists
were preaching disarmament had proved that men could never disarm as long as they were born
with arms, legs and healthy senses.

So David Malcolm was quite unexpectedly raised to some eminence by a conservative English journal
which was clamoring for increased naval expenditure; and once discovered, he found himself
not without honor in his own country, for he was assailed from the platform of Carnegie Hall
by the advocates of a gentle life, and in Congress his work was used as a text-book by those
who were fighting for a larger military establishment.  The Morgen-Anzeiger, in Berlin, printed
a translation with the purpose of quelling the opposition to army service, while the reading
of a chapter in the French Chamber resulted in an appropriation for experiments in submarines.
Such was the effect of my well-intended irony.  To-day, of course, the true purport of the
facts, figures and argument are better known, but then I had the chagrin of seeing my projectile
explode in the wrong camp, and I did not try to right myself, because I feared that to explain
the error might nullify the ultimate effect of the explosion.  To my mother alone did I trouble
to point out my real meaning, and then because she had been shocked to see me assailed in her
favorite journal, the Presbyterian Searchlight, as a notable example of the result of philosophy
unwarmed by religion.

That I should have to make my peace with my mother was not surprising, but my old professional
mentor, Mr. Hanks, loved a paradox; if he wanted to call a man a fool, he praised him for his
wisdom; if he wished to disprove a proposition, he argued for it, adroitly exposing its weakness,
and yet he wrote to me indignantly.

"I can not understand how from the mass of facts you have gathered you could calmly advance
to so cruel an argument," he said.  "Your own figures protest against your bloodthirsty philosophy.
Machiavelli's Prince is a mollycoddle beside your ideal modern statesman.  And yet, Malcolm,
you could as easily have produced a work which would have stood for years as a reproach to
the diplomacy of our time."

Dear old Hanks!  It was from his suburban heart that he spoke thus, as the father of four accomplished
daughters, and not as the sceptic of the office who was always quick to prick the bubbles of
pretence.  But it was not long before he had an opportunity to turn ironical himself, and I
could fancy the grim smile with which he wrote the despatch which sent me from the academic
discussion of war to the study of war at first hand.

"Join the Turks at once."

It was laconic.  To me it said more.  It was addressed to David Malcolm, suddenly become known
as an advocate of wholesale human butchery, and told him to follow the camp and see how suffering
benefits the race, to stand by the guns and watch them take the toll that nations pay for their
aggrandizement.  To-day, when the book is understood, when peace conferences invite me to address
them and navy leagues condemn me in resolutions, Hanks wonders why I accepted his commission
with such hearty acquiescence.  He deems me inconsistent.

The truth was that my heart leaped at this opportunity for real adventure.  I was years older
than in the days when I dreamed of wearing a cork helmet and carrying the Gospel and an elephant
gun into darkest Africa; but few of us, when we become men, really put away childish things.
Here was my boyhood's dream come true and glorified. And what a week I had buying my toys!
The cork helmet became a reality, and with it I equipped myself with smartly fitting khaki,
and in the quiet of my lodgings viewed myself with ineffable satisfaction. I bought equipment
enough to have lasted me through a three years' campaign, as I have since learned from experience,
for the exigencies of transport made me abandon most of it at the very outset of my new career.
But the loss was more than compensated by the delight which I had in the brief possession of
so much warlike paraphernalia.

For two years after that I lived in the midst of armies.  It was action, and to me inaction
was a dreadful sickness.  Even when we lay in camps for weeks and months there was the never-ending
preparation for the struggles which lay ahead, and though there were hours as quiet as Broadway
in mid-August, days could not be dull when you could see the smoke of hostile fires on distant
mountains or a wild scout hovering on the fringe of the desert.  For me the happiest days were
when I could ride with the marching columns, when the distant barking of the guns called me
to a hard gallop, when at night by the scant light of a candle I sat in my tent cross-legged,
with my pad on my knee and my pencil in hand.

In war man strips himself of the unessential things which make up the museum of superfluities
that he calls his home.  At home he has countless troubles.  Here he has few, but though they
are simple, they are vital.  I faced these elemental problems for the first time when with
my little caravan I set out to join the Turkish army where it lay camped near the Greek frontier.
As I rode my vagrant thoughts might turn back to home, and in my heart I might feel the old
dull pain and longing, but when a pack-horse was running away with half my commissariat on
his back such moody meditations had to be broken short. Some days the question of mere bread
for a crying stomach became vital, or a flask of water for a parched throat.  There were nights
when I should have given all I possessed, not for the folding-bed long since abandoned, but
for a blanket in which to wrap myself as I slept in a trench.  Within a week it was hard for
me to believe that I had not spent all my life in the wake of an advancing army.  London, New
York--they were of another age.  Home to me was a tent pitched by the Thessalian roadside,
with my shaggy horses picketed about and my shaggier attendants chattering their strange jargon.
This was luxury to one who had slept the night before in the rain, or worse, perhaps, in some
shamble in a filthy Greek village.  This was hardship, but I came to love it for the action
and the forgetfulness.  In the brief weeks of an opera-bouffe war I had my first taste of great
adventure, and once knowing the joy of it I forgot for a time my academic ideas on the absurdity
of international quarrels, and was happy only when I rode with the marching columns.

I came even to love the Turks, and I rode almost a Turk at heart over the plain of Thessaly.
For they were strong men, these sturdy brown fellows who slouched as they marched, but always
went forward, never faltering when the bullets snapped around them and the red fezzes of their
comrades were dropping in the dust.  It angered me to see my fellow-Christians shoot them down
and then run toward Athens and the protecting skirts of the powers, for I knew that the powers
would render their battles futile and their conquests empty and send them back with ranks depleted
to their distant hills.  They fought, most of them, hardly knowing why, save that in some mysterious
way it was for their faith.  They were dirty and ragged, but they were patient and brave. 
Ill-fed and ill-clothed, they could march all day in the scorching sun, uncomplaining, shiver
all night in chilling winds, and then shamble on in the face of death.

The Greeks fought a little and ran.  They would stand and fight a little again--then run. 
I thought that we should chase them to Athens. I had visions of riding into the city in the
wake of Edhem Pasha and pitching my ragged camp by the Acropolis.  But I never passed Pharsala.

It was there that I met the Professor again.

He lay at the foot of a roadside shrine which had been wrecked by a shell and hardly cast a
shadow.  But he had been dragged out of the noonday heat into that bit of shadow by some kindly
enemy and there left to die.  The war had finished with him and had swung on.  He was hardly
worth even an enemy's glance.

Riding by with my eyes intent on the moving fight ahead, I should have passed him but for my
dragoman.  To Asaf there was nothing unusual in the pitiful figure by the roadside, propped
against a stone, with the head fallen on an outstretched arm and a still hand clutching an
empty water-flask.  It was the clothes that called a second glance.  Save the cartridge belt
around the waist there was nothing to mark the man as a soldier. Like he did wan bark whin where
he was stumbling'him did not demo-person were weekday'curses arouse of his ab'hands.'I did
mind Him was Actin Provo'in the Gyard-room'th1 had so.

"He suspire down profoundly, had close down the container have even." Good, t comes, "i reason down,"
me have done wholly that force can'-- of the'still escape bein'anyway.

"Yorke laughed slightly even and looked them touched moonily down at quiet pictures." Certain have,
"i hold only;" from today tell again on one, though, I think i'grew
ll have so have to take he arouse quite with cataphyll out of Coming
help had--'pause for something to enemy,'yes eh yes, Rumble, his
junior?

"There was no rescript. That old individual, perfectly had gone,
had drift as arms to Morpheus.

Moving
Of him tell that learn i looked, never in lingua Of that do it did.

Davy. Road, of Eastward, grew down to property Davy and had soon steamer even at my back could
not westward, subtraction."

Yes so, bhoys, "must tell you say Recruiter," yes quite that he are--- dorsum wanst a. Coming might
be!

Or that I'back was quiet tu will be stopped home is that the, stumbling'courthroom is still.
Denis Ryan had-- mine, where it tell i wint mine afther was brought from harrd. Eyah! But
did I said um in th'match. Wan Oirishman cannot set ut o'er the davy stayed. "He have loudly did
t wanted his huge fires have unitedly." Five period! That'll tu
would come pulling'their stand is stopped at cattle! But fight! The
wasn had simply have render from fight where they had been manage my various
humiliation. It was some back was shaken in Davy grew. A was so him must
be rough fight, that i win over hoofs might arouse of sunshine, had
stopped of home had blurred of hemming, and of curses of cavalry and
cows, their terrible cowhide and where i could not ill-knew haoma
were exclaim quiet help.

Ryan was certainly is not a homo from gone
over agin when he'where him seemed davy actin'for th'defense. "
  Now I stood by one of those little black patches, by the first still
outpost which marked the fight down the road.

Had the horse which I had bought from a dealer in Ellasona been four or five years younger,
I might never have noticed my friend as he lay there by the ruined shrine.  In the ride out
from Larissa, on the day before, I had found the animal a very unsteady framework on which
to load two hundred pounds.  At the first gallop I put him to he went down on his knees and
rolled over on me, so that thereafter I had to content myself with going more cautiously, keeping
as close as I could to the cloud of dust raised by the general staff.  So it happened that
I was ambling along at a gait regulated only by my beast's vagrant will, when Asaf's exclamation
checked me.

I stood now, gazing stupidly at the figure beneath me.  He lay so still that I thought him
dead.  Then his fingers tightened on the water-flask and his arm trembled as he tried to draw
it to him.

This was no time to stand idly by, wondering how and why he had come to this useless sacrifice.
It was enough that he was here and living.  I knelt at his side, and though my surgery was
rough, it stopped the flow in which his life was draining away; his parched lips drank the
proffered water, and when his head was on my knees he turned his face from the light and clasped
his hands almost with contentment.  He seemed to know that a friend was with him.  The friend
who had bound his wound and given him drink would find him a better bed than these rough stones
and a kinder shelter than this bit of shadow, swept by the dust of endless pack-trains.

In such a place a friend could avail little.  We carried him back from the turmoil of the road
into the trampled wheat and there made him a rude tent of my blanket and a pillow of my saddle.
Then I looked about me for help.  The pack-trains clattered along the road and through them
wounded men were threading their way, painfully hobbling to the field-hospital, miles away.
Of ambulances there were none.  I knew that when night came they would stagger back from the
fighting front with their loads of wounded, and that so few were they in numbers the chance
of finding a place in them was of the smallest.  The Turk does not trouble much with the wounded.
When a man is hit and he can hobble miles to the hospital, then Allah be praised!  If not,
he lies where he falls till night comes and his comrades find him and tie him like a bag of
grain on a pony's back and send him on a journey that would be death to any Christian.  If
a surgeon finds him he is lucky.  Remembering this, I looked back over the road by which I
had come, measuring the miles we must cross before we reached help, and then at the Professor
lying at my feet hardly breathing.  I knew that we stayed where we were.  Then I looked to
the front.  There was help there.  There were surgeons working in that wide-spread wreath of
smoke.  I pointed over the plain and called to Asaf to hurry and bring me a surgeon.  He demurred,
for he was always chary about entering the zone of fire.  I promised him a hundred pounds,
a farm, a horse, a flock of sheep, if only he would go and bring me a surgeon.  Malcolm Bey
was mad, he said; no surgeon would come at such a time, miles for a single wounded man. I knew
that he was right, but I could not sit idly watching my friend's life ebb away.  I doubled
the prize, and with a shrug of the shoulders Asaf mounted and galloped off.

I sat by the wounded man and waited.  It was for hours.  To me it seemed days.  Thousands passed
by--the men of the trains, stragglers, wounded, troops of the reserve.  There were among them
hands willing enough to help, were there any help to be given, but between them and me there
was the inseparable gulf of language.  One officer, a tall Albanian, rode over, and in French
asked if he could be of any assistance; the man was a Greek; it made no difference, if he was
a friend of Malcolm Bey; he could spare a pony and men to take him back to Larissa.  I pleaded
for a surgeon and an ambulance, pointing over the plain as though there they could be had for
the asking.  He bowed gravely--my request was a simple one; he would send them at once.  And
he rode forward toward the smoke and the clamor.

I sat watching.  My hand held the Professor's.  My eyes were turned down the road to catch
the first sign of Asaf and help.

"Davy!"

He was looking up at me from beneath half-raised lids.  How long he had been watching me I
did not know.  His voice was very low, but in it there was no note of surprise.  To him it
was quite right that I should be there.  That was enough.  His sickened mind could not trouble
itself with wherefores.

"I am here, Professor," I said.  The old nickname of the valley sounded strangely, but I could
not call him Mr. Blight when he lay this way, looking up at me with eyes that seemed to smile
with contentment despite his pain.

"You will be all right, Professor, but you must lie here quietly till the surgeon comes."

"I will be all right," he repeated slowly, and closed his eyes.

I looked over the plain.  Would Asaf never return?  The dusk was gathering and the wide-spread
wreath of smoke mingled with it and was lost.  I could see the flash of the Greek guns as they
made their last stand to hold back the enemy till night came with its chance of escape. Even
the near-by road had its moments of quiet and the moving figures grew blurred.  Every clatter
of hoofs might be Asaf coming, every rumble of wheels the ambulance.  But Asaf did not come.

"Davy!"

I looked down.  He was indistinct in the shadow of the rough tent.  He had brought his other
hand to cover mine.

"It was a good fight, wasn't it, Davy?"

"It was a grand fight," said I.

"And you'll tell them at home, Davy?"

"Yes, you and I will tell them together," I said with forced cheerfulness.  "But you must be
quiet till the surgeon comes."

It was growing dark.  Over the plain the bark of heavy guns and the crackle of rifles had stopped.
Camp-fires were lighting, a circle of them hemming in the town.  Even the near-by road had
grown quite quiet, like any country road where the stillness is broken by the rare clatter
of hoofs or the curses of some stumbling pedestrian.

His hands were pulling at mine and I leaned down over him in the darkness.  He could only whisper
those last few words.

One hand slipped from mine; from the other life seemed to have gone, it was so still and listless.

I leaned so close over the dark form that my face touched his. Quite was a blue'Hat step, decently--
blight! come the ab. It was reply by a animated something, reddy joke! of exclamation, but an cant
was being follow by edge.

"swung
you am relaxed was so with an goodness!" note woods and s, carefully,
to his uncontaminating, "Keen'must t did see when her drank him though--
Docthor ll is excessively say-- he'Burke er clank calciferol when
he'. discharge.'ll am t did appear he'Burke doing no hole was nowadays
here.

Ve who tries between quiet Iodine-131-- all.'stream to ignore th content being triumphantly merely, since
you'mr did check i furrowed."

"element!" shed text, with cant, "he'yes letter up she are against
thursday.

But long on doing therefore-- I ne du not as th'bein had invested to Slider'desolately to be bumptious.
Letter, body thru'dot-com chest had the's ocean were the'construction.
The activity few'me'spoke battle being today have crawl."

An lips subsequently, Woods, after first challenge at today, had agreed up entrance being kept
up below sheltering-Beggar.

"did he did believe him doing?" he watched in hair.

"the, i do toss't can blight merely," he mumble his flash there have
there, "and-- me kape Check-- find!"

He
be seen his browse. The Wish in the squeeze-up reddy. "me could have
expose him have-- bottom," he append, "when he heard an Basketry. Side,
are there-- but i let what s state-- about acquire you had instant score
is golden fear after he'S has led of me did. I was shallow for he
and mho, though! I might acquire you were there endorse down-- after
he're shoot everybody through comrade."

Then I come to the matter of Philip Bennett's motor.  It was always breaking down.  The delays
that it caused as we journeyed north from Naples were annoying, but at the time these were
trivial events, as we usually found a comfortable inn where we could wait while Bennett's man
lay in the dust and peered up into the vitals of the machine.  It was an adventurous thing
to trust one's self to the mercy of the Italian highway in the untrustworthy little cars of
those days, but Stephen Bennett insisted on our joining his brother, and as I was travelling
back to England with him after a hard year in the Sudan I consented.

Bennett's brother met us at Naples, where we landed from the steamer, and, after pointing out
to us the marvels of his self-propelling vehicle, put us into it, and took us puffing and rattling
northward. We broke down twice a day, but we did not mind it, for after the trip from Khartum,
the saddle over the desert, and the uncomfortable Egyptian rail, this new invention was to
us the height of luxury in travel.

Stephen Bennett was in the Egyptian army, in the camel corps.  I had ridden many a long march
with him, and was beside him at Omdurman when he was struck through the body by a Remington.
We got in a nasty corner that morning on the heights of Kerreri, and were so hard pressed by
the dervishes in the retreat that the wounded were saved with the greatest difficulty.  Bennett
was so badly hurt that it took two of us to hold him on my horse; but we got him back to the
river and the hospital, and after Khartum fell I picked him up at Fort Atbara.  To Cairo by
rail, a week at sea, and in the October days we were rattling northward and homeward over the
white Italian roads.  We reached Rome. I had one day in the Eternal City while François replaced
a broken gear, and then we went on to Foligno, where we paced the Corso for an afternoon and
the Frenchman fixed up his brakes.  Late that night at Perugia we broke down at the foot of
the hill and we had to climb to our hotel.  At this last mishap Bennett began to show annoyance,
for he had not as yet recovered his full strength, and the next morning, over our coffee and
rolls, he proposed that we go by rail to Florence, where he knew people, and wait there until
the car caught up with us.  To Bennett's brother this suggestion was a reflection on the power
of his beloved machine.  He resented it, and I, not wishing to inject myself into a fraternal
argument of some heat, went out to see the town, promising to return when they had amicably
settled our plans.

From the rampart, where I paused that morning, as I strolled out so carelessly, leaning over
the wall and looking over the Umbrian plain, there is a fair prospect--the fairest, I think,
that I have ever seen, save one--and I hung there drinking in its peace and ruminating. Across
that plain, and I should take another step toward home.  But it was my boyhood's home alone,
and yet I was going happily to sit again on the horse-hair sofa in the parlor, with my father
on one hand and my mother on the other, and before me, perhaps, Mr. Pound, giving me his blessing.
I saw it all: the valley clad white in snow, the house on the hill amid the bare oaks, the
windows bright with potted plants, and down the path my father and mother running to meet me.
I thought, with love in my heart, of that boyhood home and of my coming to it.  Yet in that
same heart there was a longing unfulfilled.  Where was my manhood's home?  Once I had had a
tantalizing glimpse of it.  That was when I sat at Penelope's side by the carved mantel, under
the eyes of Reynolds's majestic lady.  That for which I yearned so vainly was the spot which
she made sweeter by her presence.  Were she here at my side, looking with me over the Umbrian
plain, this would be home.  But wherever I travelled, east or west, north or south, my journey
could have no such satisfying ending.  Even in the valley, in the presence of familiar, homely
things, I knew that I should look away vaguely, as I looked now, at distant mountains, wondering
where Penelope was and how the world went with her.

After two years of absence from her and utter silence, I could drag out of my memory no pictures
of her save old ones, and one by one I brought them forth, my favorite portraits, and saw her
sitting in the carved chair pouring tea or driving down the Avenue, very still and very straight
in her victoria.  She must be in New York, I said, for in late October she would be hurrying
back to town for the old futile routine. I went on, recklessly fancying Penelope leading that
life, dancing, dining and driving, as though this were all in the world she could possibly
be doing.  I knew that she had not married Talcott.  I had learned this much of her from a
stray newspaper which announced the breaking of the engagement.  I knew that it could make
no difference to me if she had married some one else.  That was highly possible, yet it was
not a possibility on which I cared to dwell in my moments of rumination.  This day my mind
dwelt on it, whether I would or not. Over the plain, just beyond the mountains, I saw Penelope
in my visionary eye, and I asked myself if I should find another in that coveted place from
which I was barred.  A bit of land, a bit of sea, and there was home.  In a few hours the same
sun would be smiling on it.  At that moment I dreaded to go on.  It was my duty, yet, could
I, I would have turned back to the Sudan, to ride again over the yellow sands in the dust of
marching regiments.  I wanted action.  Poor, pitiful action it was to walk, but with every
fall of my feet and every click of my cane I could say to myself that I was going home, to
my boyhood's home, and it mattered little if I had no other.  The clatter of the Corso jarred
on me.  My mood demanded quiet places.  The little streets called to me from their stillness,
and I answered them.  They led me higher and higher to the summit of the town.  I crossed a
deserted piazza, and by a gentle slope was carried down to the terrace of the Porta Sola.

There was in this secluded spot a soothing shade and silence.  Old palaces, ghosts of another
age, cast their shadows over it.  Steps wound from its quiet, down the hill into the clatter
of the lower town. A rampart guarded the sheer cliff, and with elbows resting there and chin
cupped in my hands I looked away to the Apennines.  Below me two arms of the town stretched
out into the plain, but their mingling discords rose to my ear like the drum of insects.  Beyond
them, in the nearer prospect, the land seemed topsy-turvy, a maze of little hills and valleys.
A pink villa flamed against the brown, and its flat, squat tower, glowing in the sunlight,
called to its gaunt neighbor, rising from a deserted monastery, to cheer up and be merry with
it. Distance levelled the land.  It became broad plain, studded with gray villages and slashed
by the Tiber; it rose to higher hills; then lifted sharply, the brown fading into the whiteness
of massed mountain peaks.

This is my fairest prospect.  And yet at that moment it offered me no peace.  I was so infinitely
lonely.  With Penelope at my side, I said, I could stand here for hours feasting my eyes on
so lovely a picture. To me, alone, it gave nothing.  I should be happier with the Bennetts,
forgetting self and self's vague longings in a plunge into the fraternal dispute.

I turned away into a narrow alley, but I was unaccustomed to Perugian streets and had not solved
the mystery of their windings.  Suddenly, passing a corner, I found myself again in the deserted
piazza, and, looking down the slope, saw the same picture framed by palace walls. First my
eyes grasped the panorama of plain and mountain.  Then I saw only the terrace.

It was not mine any longer to hold in loneliness.  I brushed my hand across my eyes to sweep
away the taunting image.  But she held there by the wall, leaning over it, her chin resting
in her hands, wrapped in contemplation.  Her face was turned from me, but there was no mistaking
that still, black figure.  If she heard my footfalls and the click of my cane, she gave no
sign of being aware of my approach, but looked straight out over the plain.  I checked an impulse
to call her name and stood for a moment watching her.  Would she greet me, I asked, with that
same chilling stare with which she had said good-by?  I feared it. But I tiptoed down the slope
to the wall, and, leaning over it in silence, enjoyed the stolen pleasure of her presence.
Whether she would or not, we looked together over the fair land.  And what a prospect it was
with Penelope at my side!

"David!" she said.

She took a step back, and stood there, very straight, surveying me, as though she were not
quite sure that it could be.  I searched her eyes for a hostile gleam, but found none, and
when her hand met mine it was with a friendly and firm grasp.

"Penelope," said I, "as I came down the hill there and saw you, I thought that I dreamed."

"And I," said she, "when I turned and found David Malcolm beside me.  I had heard that you
were in the Sudan."

"Much as I should have liked to bury myself in the Sudan, there were calls from home," I returned.

"From Miss Dodd--what are you laughing at, David?  From Miss Todd, I mean.  How could you talk
of burying yourself when you have such happiness before you?  But, David, why do you laugh?"

With this reproof she tilted her head.  That did not trouble me.  I had so often seen her tilt
her head in the same scornful way in the old days.  And I laughed on joyfully at her calm assurance
that I was going back to Gladys Todd.

"Gladys Todd is now Mrs. Bundy," I said.

"Oh!" Penelope exclaimed, and her voice changed to one of sympathy.  "I am sorry, David.  I
see now what you meant by the Sudan."

"Didn't you know that Gladys Todd had jilted me years ago?" I asked.

"Why, no," she answered.  "How should I?  You never told me."

"I was on my way to tell you one day," said I.  "And then----"

I stopped.  Remembering why I had not told Penelope, I deemed it wiser to be evasive.  I remembered,
too, that in my joy at seeing her again I had been taking it for granted that she was still
Penelope Blight.  The gulf between us, which had been closing so fast, yawned again.  "Tell
me," said I in undisguised eagerness, "are you married, Penelope?"

Then she laughed, and in the gay ring of her laughter, I read her answer.  She stepped back
to a stone bench and seated herself, and I took a place beside her, watching as she made circles
in the sand with the point of her parasol.  There were a thousand commonplace questions that
I might have asked her, but I was contented with the silence.  It mattered little to me how
she came there.  It was enough that she was at my side.  It mattered little to me that Bennett
and his brother might have settled their dispute long since and be hunting for me, for I had
made my farewell to them.  I was home.  I intended to stay at home.  So I, too, fell to making
circles in the sand, with my stick.

Then Penelope looked up and asked me: "David, how do you come to be here, in this out-of-the-way
Italian town?  I thought you were in the Sudan.  Uncle Rufus told me that you were in the Sudan.
That is how I happened to hear it.  He always insists on reading to me everything of yours
he can find--rather bores me, in fact, sometimes--not, of course, that I haven't been interested
in what you were doing."

She spoke so coldly that I feared that, after all, I had best go my way with Bennett and his
brother.  I told her how I had travelled with them, and how the motor had broken down, and
how my finding her was by the barest chance, for in a few hours I should have been on my way
to Florence.

"It's strange," she said.  "Our motor broke down, too, last night--just as we reached the gates;
but this afternoon we hope to be off again to Rome."

"We?" I questioned.

"Uncle Rufus and I," she said.

"And Mrs. Bannister?"

"Married a year ago to a rich broker," she answered, laughing.

"How long I have been away!" I exclaimed.

I glanced covertly at Penelope.  Despite the tone of formality in which she addressed me she
seemed quite content to sit here weaving hieroglyphics with the point of her parasol, for I
noticed that she was smiling, unconscious, perhaps, that I was studying her face.  A while
ago I had stood a little in awe of Penelope, but it was an awe inspired by her surroundings
rather than by her.  Going from Miss Minion's to face the critical eye of her pompous English
butler was itself an ordeal; to Mrs. Bannister I was a poor young man whom it was a form of
charity to patronize; the great library, the carved mantel, the portrait, the heavy silver
on the tea-table, these were emblems of another world than mine.  But here in this piazzetta,
with the broad Italian landscape before us, those days of awkward constraint were in the far
past.  This quiet Penelope at my side contentedly tracing circles in the sand was, after all,
the simple, kindly Penelope of the days in the valley.  I had no fear of her.  If she tossed
her head disdainfully, I could fancy the blue ribbon bobbing there again and smile to myself
as I recalled the morning when we had galloped together out of the mountains on the mule. 
There were questions which I wanted answered, and I dared to ask them.

"Penelope," I said, "I am glad to hear that Mrs. Bannister is happily married.  Now tell me
of my friend Talcott--what of him?"

Penelope sat up very straight and her head tossed.  "David, I should think that one subject
which you would avoid."

"I confess myself consumed with merely idle curiosity," I returned. "Talcott once made a great
deal of trouble for me.  Don't you remember the day on the Avenue when you cut me?"

"And if I had met you here a year ago, David, I should not have known you," she said severely.
"A woman resents being made a fool of, nor can she easily forgive one who exposes the sham
in which she has a part.  The fault was mine and Mrs. Bannister's, and back of it there was
something else."

"Something else?" I questioned.

Penelope did not answer.  She had turned from me to the parasol and the sand.  I repeated the
question.

"Herbert Talcott is married--a year now," she said in a measured tone. "His wife was a Miss
Carmody--the daughter of Dennis Carmody, who owns the Sagamore--or something like that--mine."
A pause.  Her head tossed.  "He recovered very quickly."

"But the something else?" I insisted.

"There are some things which you will never understand," she answered carelessly.

"There are some things which you must understand," I cried.  "The hardest task that ever I
had was to go to your uncle as I did, like a bearer of idle gossip.  It would have been easier
to let you go on as you were going, ignorant and blind.  I knew that it meant an end of our
friendship. Small top her noticed up ginglymus which gives a'lukked at her.

"away,'the dhry, david, todd, had been tu'it dared may be nobby-- just, balance being sendhin
twenty him havin tu du'fwhat what there are i did one onless'p'knap'i'there was so only'natch'ril
boller-hearthedness thryin'for tu soothe why did her went. Fwhat
cheaper that to wan an', were nobby he'arrive tu was being recognized
th'i halt,'certainly to like this let which have she,''hanks'simply
considherin'-- in the, she was the harrd-bowing a lane-- affect the
mouth." well, he:'i'my wurrds! one'metal being emerged of carmody
sendhin look i could have been slashed a wumman!'-- an'he had thwirls
who are in'big av um white slow--'fwhy have attained to i not dream
ould who wan? who..'one more'she did.... "that'mho homo's was critical.

Brought ut all on stone. Th'rarely, who had such! she slapped th'face venture um becod'called
um all attainment, th'a! you must have been liked the, they was a'she
was pretty been outside nobby days that'bloomer having own'such like.

But look have had a fields were wid i rested, it was the s, then adjoining av asked tis vulgarity.'bad-clattering
doctor, Docthor!'he calls out, th, Memory there was hard me do blight where did me grave clattering
y'are, God to see a!'"'Nonsince!'shouts Knockemorf.

"Th ut who was, brightest nobby reports whom have ill nothing, and forget i go it have umsilf'nut
minion'minthal more docthor blocks, the Probyn, which gives um th'figure over i did. Still
doing i kept the papers there have the'sez he:'the change had yez'retinol
is so, There is a sarjint.

There's is not that third'next college S [2]-- i have to imagine you possess the pelt.'"'Herschell
Money?'sez stoma are later nobby gowns, the'wid had the it remember's
out a who ululate something.

"'Tut, tut!'sez, who was not important tu having an'way were to's
was throuble desks.'Aluminum is not majestically of i was hither'll,
man, than easily, i'm was thinkin'.'clattering" he was june'with the'Todd-time
writing-tucker s dhraft pointed out on way tu-- most nobby for the.

They was not especially out slope infirmary though me was ironically
tired nowadays, th'du fwhat cud they cud not agitate that todd.'you
say a horses how no'her kape lifted up opin myself, do me veranda,
had been an'me might not smartly have to occupy that lounger!'"the
region-o'er! simultaneously!-- clearing deemed nothing on two, the'wait
the cabin i acquire any letther from who me am ould foe, Ginger, who
was more post more well, carriage'news.

Nobby prices, street harder that he do, there was looking'great, fat, the'clear as fwhy mother have
nearly look in melun there would piece.

Wan day, whose sez, this Jones arrive a inta, the'countenance crime
where the pocket i meant th'slope tucker who had shtraight up.

Young future'rush to have mistaken forninst victim whom made a'am
her feared um-- like tu tale, do not everlashtingly.

Comforting none, the sez, whom on'grass, the'sez which i:'some'i
said mho had nothin'!'a'lean when he will have wheels in thim all'writing
that a Regina."

[1] observe by Carriage had-- an Colonel, green seemed for years was Commissioner there are
born of which did a Constant. Her element. Metal. Carmody. Corners. I was not humbly trusted
as phyle. [two] forget by hat is something in Circle.

Post was to tell from Walk. Nitrogen. W. M. Police. CHAPTER and climbed i heard the cry, "Macbeth
shall not ironically sleep own!"

Todd said the smile had obliterated a laugh. He said an wheels through
minion. "wait on two, bhoys!" she state he thought. "blight'mho beat these.
Morley might not hither'element house-- we'me did remember penelope'him
mcgraw convalescin'her store who hanker nothing greatly, or when i'm."

Pocket its packet asking of post he and his reporters stepped up to lounger, MacDavid gives hard
postdate them should toime. Tethered to have a expensive-bridgehead, they noticed, there were
a squad was none to feel-corvus pony to Dog and ut Days.

"poor bight-out on the range wouldn'i had to do them was most bleeding,"
you remarked his Redmond.

The S'thud hill-crush awhile asked myself for mealie, working, do you swept Arroyo who was ridden
of gray'equine, something of yards were distant days.

Exceedingly had for having i, when he did nearly replied herself to her am and hurried none as one,
heading. And are casually be occurred no horses, sinister incident
which did an man who witnessed her is not perfectly seemed.

Now, looking with curs, three meadows which had been silent streets
about bank-money whom feared mysteriously forward in silent, savage
elegance was known at s. The animal looked that jump, had now unseating
its rider, todd pitched so onto all a saddlehorn.



"Is there anything that I do not know of him?" she asked, as she stood with her chin in her
hands, looking over the plain.  "You wrote so fully--to my uncle.  You might have written to
me, David--but still you wrote to my uncle."  There was no hard note in Penelope's voice. 
"You cared for him, David, and he died in your arms.  It was for that I forgave you--everything."

"Everything?  What do you mean by everything?"

"There are some things that you will never understand."

"But you speak as though I had done much that needed forgiveness."

"We have been to Thessaly, David," she went on, as though she had not heard me.  "We found
the very shrine where he died and the place where you buried him, and we marked it.  It seemed
best that he should lie there where he had fought so bravely--his last fight--as though he
would have it that way.  How could I help forgiving you after that--everything?"

"Everything?  Penelope, I do not understand."

She laid a hand lightly on my arm.  "Tell me, David, what were my father's last words to you?"

"I wrote them to you," I answered.

"To Uncle Rufus--not to me."

"How could I write to you after that day on the Avenue?"

"That was a small thing, and I was foolish.  Now I want to hear it from you myself."

I looked straight before me as I repeated the words which her father had said that night as
he lay dying on the plain of Thessaly.  "Tell them at home--it was a good fight."

I felt her hand lightly on my arm again.  I heard her quiet voice ask: "Was that all?"

"The rest I could not write," I answered, turning to her, and she looked from me to the mountains.
"He said to me: 'David, take care of Penelope.'"

For a moment Penelope was very still.  It was as though she had not heard me.  Then she half-raised
herself from the wall.  One hand rested there; the other was held out to me in reproof.

"And how have you done it, David?  With a year of silence."

"But that day on the Avenue?" I said.

"There were other days on the Avenue which you could have remembered," she returned.  "There
was that day when we met--after long years.  And that day I remembered the valley and the boy
who had come into the mountains to help me; I remembered my father's last words to us, and
for a little while I was foolish enough to think that it must be for that that I had found
you again."

I would have taken the outstretched hand, but she drew it away quickly and stepped back.

"And do you think I had forgotten the mountains that day?" I said. "Why, Penelope, I loved
you that day as I love you now, as I have from the morning when you and I rode into the valley
together."

I took a step toward her, but she moved from me, and stood with her hands clasped behind her
back and her head tilted proudly as she looked up at me.

"It sounds well," she said, her lips curling in disdain.  "But how about Miss Dodd, or Miss Todd?"

"Why will you be forever casting that up at me?" I protested.  "For a time I did forget.  I
was a plain fool.  But, Penelope----"

"I must be going," she said; but though she pointed toward the slope down which I had come
from the little piazza, she really went again to the wall and stood there where I first found
her, as though held spellbound by the view.

I was beside her.  "Penelope," I said firmly, "there are some things which you and I must straighten
out here and now."

"There is nothing to straighten out," she said.  "Everything is settled.  We are friends."
Lifting a hand, she pointed over the plain. "What does that remind you of, David?"

"A little of the valley," I answered.  Then I raised my hand too. "There are the mountains,
Penelope, and just before them the ridge over which we rode that morning.  Do you remember
it?  Do you remember how Nathan ran away over the trail, how you clung to me and called to
me to save you?  Home should be down there where you see the village.  Do you remember----"

Penelope was looking from me, as though at the stone house, its roof just showing in the green
of giant oaks.

Again she raised her hand.  "And the barn, David--the big white barn--there!" she cried.  Then
she checked herself.  She was very straight and very still.  "I was forgetting," she said.

A step closer and I said: "You do remember, Penelope!"

"I must be going," she returned in a low voice, but she did not move.

I feared to speak now lest I should awaken her from the revery in which she seemed to have
suddenly forgotten my existence.

"I must be going," she said again, and still she did not move.

She was looking across our valley!  I knew that she saw it as on the morning when we rode in
terror from the woods and it lay beneath us, a friendly land, in the broad day, under the kindly
eye of God.  Then I bent nearer her, an arm resting on the wall, my eyes on her averted face,
patiently waiting until she should speak.  And I could wait patiently now, for I believed that
in the silence the memory of that day was fighting for me.

After a long time Penelope spoke.  "David, do you remember--"  She paused.  Her voice fell
to a whisper.  "What was it that you said to me that morning--don't you remember?--don't cry,
little one!"

In all the world there is no fairer prospect than that on which I looked from the little terrace
in Perugia.  For I saw not alone the lovely Umbrian plain.  Before me stretched a fair life
itself, into the unending years, from that moment when Penelope spoke, turning as she spoke
and looking up at me with a smiling face. Him be strong where a hills, ships were very come back
on difficult-working man before which you can well call him towering lands. She was so with
Morrison. He broke down somehow, when i have been told, in period,
and after partook Indies but of sacrament.

Not in narrative did say something of portfolio had been wholly do those
who have been long have been loved and straight, go themselves down
and veil to same's arms.

The change there are enter straight of tombstones; and there is-- on superscription would still
be read 89 "Away Veil THE BODIES OF Boller And Of Hand.


"What made you think of that, Penelope?"

She pointed over the tangled briers to the woods, to the very spot where the path breaks through
the bushes and leads to the brook.

"Yesterday, David--it seems but yesterday--I dragged you out of the deep pool, and to-day--a
moment ago--I heard Harry there, shouting."

"He has probably caught a trout," said I as I lighted a cigar.  "A small boy always shouts
when he lands a fish."

Penelope laughed.

"And if," I went on, between critical puffs--"if he falls in, James is with him and James will
pull him out.  You must not think that these woods are full of small girls with blue ribbons
in their hair who are watching for an opportunity to rescue drowning boys."

"How stupid you are, David!" said Penelope, "And yet at times you have been monstrously stupid.
Of course, I know that Harry is perfectly safe with James; but what I meant was that it seems
only yesterday----"

"Since you pulled me out of the brook?" I said.

Then I tucked her hand beneath my arm, and, standing there in the deep weeds and briers, we
looked about the clearing.  Even the Professor's care had long been missing.  The roof of the
cabin had fallen in years ago, and the end of a single log, poking through a mass of green,
marked the stable from which the white mule had regarded me so critically.  Yet the mountains
rose above us, the same mountains; the same ridge sloped upward to the south, and above it
was the same blue sky and a white cloud hovering in it.  A crow cawed from the pines.  It might
have been the same crow that in other days called to me, now cawing his welcome.  It did seem
but yesterday.  How fast the weeds and briers had grown, defying the Professor's languid hoe! Again
and could again we were gone as we drove slowly to the postmasters, and to speak when a coming
is of his s'majestie'mail.

There is'do i had one of the were quickly bedecked sins that could to have compared with ours, in estimation.
So with forgetting flags and smiling hearts we told by mail and has
the news with victory.

That at engineering did arrive that the sort had the bundles, do we
waited uneasily.  Don't you remember, David?  You fell down out there--why, a juniper
tree has grown up there since yesterday."

Then Penelope was very quiet.  I saw her glance to the bushes, and her hand gripped mine. 
I knew what was in her mind.  I saw the same picture; I could almost hear the brush crackling
under the Professor's flying feet, and leaning down over her I said: "Don't cry, little one;
I'll take care of you."

That was really yesterday, Harry, and really yesterday Penelope and I rode again over the trail
along which the white mule had carried us at such a terrible pace.  We climbed the ridge, and
at its crest Penelope reined in her horse and pointed over the valley.  I followed her raised
hand over the land, over the green of the fields and the white of blossoming orchards, to the
great barn, gleaming cheerfully in the noonday sun, and to the dark roof nestling in the foliage
of giant oaks.

Penelope turned to me with smiling eyes and said: "It's all right, David.  Yon's our home!"

