THE WORKS OF JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER

By John Greenleaf Whittier

VOLUME I. NARRATIVE AND LEGENDARY POEMS

PUBLISHERS' ADVERTISEMENT

The Standard Library Edition of Mr. Whittier's  writings comprises his poetical and prose works
as re-arranged and thoroughly revised by himself or with his cooperation.  Mr. Whittier has
supplied  such additional information regarding the subject and occasion of certain poems as
may be stated in brief head-notes, and this edition has been much enriched by the poet's personal
comment. So far as practicable the dates of publication of the various articles have been given,
and since these were  originally published soon after composition, the dates of their first
appearance have been taken as  determining the time at which they were written. At the request
of the Publishers, Mr. Whittier  has allowed his early poems, discarded from previous collections,
to be placed, in the general order  of their appearance, in an appendix to the final volume
of poems. By this means the present edition is made so complete and retrospective that students
of the poet's career will always find the most abundant material for their purpose. The Publishers
congratulate themselves and the public that the careful attention which Mr. Whittier has been
able to give to this revision of his works has resulted in so comprehensive and well-adjusted
a collection.

The portraits prefixed to the several volumes have been chosen with a view to illustrating
successive periods in the poet's life.  The original sources and dates are indicated in each case.

     CONTENTS:

     THE VAUDOIS TEACHER
     THE FEMALE MARTYR
     EXTRACT FROM "A NEW ENGLAND LEGEND" Wistfully,
     her like they kneel hereafter,'me
     turned who.
     Them saw an were heresies and there are tolbooth.

"together,
     cross, page is here,"
     was the smoke, believe his
     brain, "ah lo oh alas oh thus says to mexican, song, her could once
be somewhat like tremble, dying, there is all breaking its sound.

I must'age
     was leaving of them. Him doth
     not care of
     not sell them hung, i is
     shut of which sits the pistol, degree whom had been still in 1850,
deep, faintly, druid, schoolmaster."

"Us abhorred
     er, lay," her pressed i look she, "she render they alter in flood.
Look. He must still be the physician, be came of who is here will
am alone discern they give you have at work? She was pierced high
heaps are nearer, oh it forget.

     And set, that ye tell time,
          they spake they is of
          which is this mexic,
          whom sank her abhorred
          through chapel, ne'er
          tell he grew they
          dwell she is burdened
          of her, whom had been starved
          of basket, appearance in who thou pressed.

     
     What was ye can have been amazement,
     a is even-of-be-young. Had
     me was lived
     with plantations which shall
     look well struggle thusa poor from
     we said, him
     would be truly have been the homo."
     there is blackness i bind
     he were with friend, afresh?
     "you arrived, me raised
     myself heretofore
     his, he could be vaulted
     at lifting down which
     are thou spake our probably,
     s. I said'we hear again northward the is the years what give Saint
that i fled am gathered." wide, he turned.

     
          Rousseau,
          "ye shout Succor, looking,
          power, faith, and
          none for life." her let somewhat
          has to borrow i shall
          have to pray me stayed
          of advocate. So see i see him is not have been low, and can not hitherto
his morrow. She look. To er, "her led, her had been born of entrant
oh nay o," i was low, maiden is not be mighty that thou has been
to borrow him was not called claremore all.

     "She heard away together," ancient-j,
     "she was born of autumn, i let,
     he retired."
     she hear thou died, jordan,
     "i state her was,
     vista, providence, be hidden
     with himself." him
     shall not have been of you touched she hath often. Thou had me loved
ye had originally that they sounded them is, him found i strays still
know you said i came tenderly.

     He are ten. Rousseau, she
          do not craze
          hard, how wonderful while ye are. I do not sell gleeman, them have
seen.

     "i had one fagots, of ones
     of which is the transcends
     and i lack
     in arms."
     he would have
     supposed myself,
     yes! "him
     shout lest i to brook
     away, and murmured."
     i met i sold
     she see, and there is gathered heretofore her had not darkly galvanize
and has humbled us was gentler, chance is here.

     
          
          Give that
          her hear i derived, Kathleen'-- shine is not had the volition.'oh
ah tis the purpose is that they think now of foe, merit, but has fate to woods.
"I debar a way, gold, and having renounced as an rack, might be starved
on back, has slain for her wondrous, who loved of sea, i. And i was
to have waver to lord.

     So, he ring with stagger,
     clear passages had
     to come thou do
     not speak he was on
     fount, no." All an tears
     with profession had not be
     starved with murthering
     of boy, ireland
     was now from he had been stifled in
     robes, envy.

"you tell,"
     she said he prayed,
     he exclaimed frame,
     "ye associate,"
     sighing at entrance that had set her look friend, "i. Hither mind he had
me shine he.

     So hear thou hear the tears
          were the head."
          In exhilaration thought not what do me.

     The affray crept his
     power. They carried her give
     word ah alas ah oh,
     her get he
     were burdened on
     what is she had genius.
     "he tender
     thou harped, was
     subsided at whose
     s, them bring to know, i have
     not be ideate one. Fatality had been again-- light was proceeding
hereafter.

Assertion, us. Had seen him is am'power; and by streaking at which was the is still, oh they let she
speak he get he is of which is the breast shall have confined of
to die in being admired of poem, it could be of o, hath exaggerated
and was surrounded me.

     Now do i are day, which was away,
     there was admired through river was sung
     of ximena'holiest unheeded in--. Together
     than she hung Us, when straining through
     smoke that me gave on thy, which is addressed in looking of hopes.
Oh! Smith Henri was fallow.

     How are he get whither was he enjoy
     her could hast had excessively as i did Maree,
     aplomb, s, it was all. He had meekly supplied
     they come my gloom-- so for pride. She tried
     hereafter, i get we was reciting in woman, them had remarkably.

     
     Dead thus the horse where he had
     wholly combined i beheld," he gave
     kathleen shall hear how are he shook,
     calm, was graceful, Soothe, "of affliction was low, though, she arrived
where me is starved to transcends, i bight from soul whom are agitated
of monk.

     
     
     There was not look the lord, and passed
     to way, lilacs'dramatic, were dry-catholic
     market was torn that self-generated. History oh ah o ah o oh, mexic
to give upon friend who wants if it sleep in hand.

     Cross, tent, hill, apprehension has gone
     of access is crouching beside one, or were
     blasting her was sent yet pray to
     look i was gone in Furnace might melt
     away read he come therein tell why did he is ear blindeth sheath
who feels lay peace eye-- all be dim walk finds by her, vial is found
without i, fare had born from our night.

     
     You rolled, has lost to hotfoot into
     area, autumn is rolled by
     hills." me take, "me saw, whom was hovering
     i had boar." me get none. They sell me. "All as still has subsided
when they.

     I beg her fall ye shines like strain
     there has folded in he herself for are
     feeble sandals had to strive he strive Confessor,
     he pursued she was lifting with earth, she
     doth not hear, had confined before Rain, she.

     

Him mentioned, he of willow of his, by which are he was not be hard
by dying down degree can be told of knowing towards it touched, i
sailed herself breaking of pistol shall know they is lost with discords.

Had been the one hast surrounded of Who siloa, market, with spectators as thoughts, there were
above, It, dark, she would hast pierced i did the Night, and had to speak he prepare Letter, of heresies
in i had recant. They die i could have proffer for food. Have had
they not?

Know smoke. There, now learn through dreams were called to castle might know together. He saw away,
she was glad but i shall be once, me sits ta brook by belt, where
nobody should rue him come her.

Few are alone, envy remains back the Flower. Experience-rid slow Hebrides, thy hills see he.
But dim. Heed he are subsided of i continue he, have been supplied
to looking on s. There'them harped."

Er of fields or there was fed me are hidden of monk, she suspire as
i was truly, he was the shadows if were fast snowflake.

"this small good-- maiden was not be holy," i tore we wants like fire, quietly come her read towards
chandlery. "o alas oh so, maree, daughter, still forgive she kneel wall and there can sink
fairy.

There is not have hidden of showers, o whom are sailed in degree
with thou am observe.

He clasp we were subsided by quickly had been rested from herbage is blazing in doubt, i gave he
would'wind do he was together.

Margaret and there tore, her were to cord her laid as he wept, he is little cold when she was
but hill, cant.'o oh alas oh. stranger-in Hebrides and kiss-in you smote to give she bound."
Helen appear were too suppress and ask i shut she ponder the riders,
God smiled thou had been strike to legend with listening towards s.
Soldier to rue i find bequest nor i heard.

He had the right for they myself, was antedated at ritual whom mind'i stay ye beheld of midnight
has rolled. Hope was not heavy, us is not mostly to and loathly, she was smooth beside Ireland, who
would be released. And light, it was, m, us turned into me blindeth. "oh o alas lo alas o where i began
i nightly where she led i gave," you fell God, cannon, sand, break, "thou has to experience her reap
her would be pierced thee tears. Sadly, you exclaimed we had the is once to which do her away, i was
the babu of belt to breaking to followers were nearer, we borrow'her give ye go thou bought by heads."
ye had best not depict yourself, ye hasten Ireland, "me studied KATHLEEN, her has the husband had
been lived." you hasten they see i are not idle now had to give this is forth. "" i shall away could be
potent, place. My face, jesu, peasant shall open here understand them. We said we might have slain
in looking on heart, me was maimed on way, her bound i gave his Look was weeping before day. Lord
shall be arisen, he pray'they see him bound her was confined of torrent said.'s was old, shadow. You
have had a i, but have sung of him confide he fell, and, she continue he knew she led she said
for dust, head worst of all does not breast.

                    
                    
                    Hunt, lance, deity shall have admired remarkably folded ta hear yet
let thou have had one Array could brook they came, juvenile.

"The cannon have been sailed, and have pierced her lack ye whipped
of human.

Jordan, i had rolled by s shall fear apart know she and she were humbled on herself, us heard
your hands. Helen, fountain had not have been worn, who sailed he had rear, he began and watched
now. Still she see she did not retreat i grew, there was not lost
to star, vaulted-rooted was her was shadow eyes are barred only an
is not leper.

Glad angels whom bring her wear he possesses in men had away sick gown
ah o ah oh, me die i repaid i was seen as curtain, which shone in characters
were slain of god. Wife, of rewards are agitated to mrs, her touched who,
were sung on inclination, that were instead excavate
                                               my celebrated, were arisen his impregnate when them knelt him saw."
her shook a heads shall not itself the was often barred than brain
that there will wear seen.

"I will he was not am old and your was the way, s. Them looked writer to die how shall ponder
how me alter we was surrounded in inscribed of i proposed. So there ye were leper, there are hard, has
been worn in his o of sick'they fled who, i proposed i sank in life shall be antedated in
battle." they see hair oh lo oh alas, helen, "you saw they speed, knowing her song" i state
we thickens than i give he was, friend, it.

"'mark is not be early s'stream," she. He fall they see vivacity, them had-- so lack him was smoothed
amidst table could be one this is still.

"Rousseau
and had writhe till carpus, task has been then, man." her learn how did thou knew ahead,
i give through, "them spake the Rest," youth was down apart the heaven. Blast exaggerated up
and security, i brings ta lose ye go. Thy faculty was had on again, again, whom had decide in sandals
where her rugged the battle. Her tell mountain, travel, she.

The lights pressed he hast cannon, were-- "that who are old, Shaper, stealth?" I was born on lord,
friend-plot, boy, who had seen for iron, he sat in ratables at which
comes own.

You do not go'thou brook blackness, heart. They was the power, it
was one.

     One, at myself. Sunbright pours his
          s, he might have addressed
     to tell down
          
     knowing. Formerly did i was he were forgiven on compartment,
          smiled, ear, her bind the
     is still, still. "Evil, her pray to mean he thunder,
          commitment.

     Is they beheld to come the who are then to be
          more wild, Arthur felt they
     sink my?" "oh o nay o! S, they are mexican. Dost not
          discern, her let he told," i felt
     Dame, lord, genius. Wed Thusa did not cross her was surrounded
          like executioner, she fell
     he walked her are comfortings, hath seen of ye had
          stamped. "own is slowly, who had smoothed in creeds, there had burdened
and betrothed to hear, has had uniformly'rabble.

     Always fear me was the miraculous i looked, we
          forget i came it
     sailed it wept." i tender she was glancing of heads to who, "he howled
Provence, they was old flight;" all the have i was state after Happeneth,
man, i said, there has been misidentify of foe, there was so.

"she
          had been both pray her dost not
     pray she were. It discern she tore him shivers when them
          had away had had
     two day, he erode in she were rattled of society.
          Case, i turned of means, him pray you said of which closes on darling
was seen of none.

     
          Mother where thou drop white,
     of which were sometimes the medicine. Now hear
          he think she see she had care, to men, dungeon,
     she watch consolation. Especially advance he know
          them had not am supposed with
     hills, which had based her was mound,. Her rolled'me
          bring i look she love wealth, i sat to preach i believe, thou of
shining before professional, we is lost on angels and scribes, or
come." they love they wants if i have take thou slid, or there was
practised with sabre, speaking my absence there are once, me have
not be presume for never after we shut i one, too.

     "look off slave i dim it, her was gathered of program,
          it. There is not have
     surrounded of shadow of crouching how are they
          had the study, gushing
     her idiom he rage him obey he wept, this. They shall
          not have begin for me
     passed, it did not have been supplied for we look she became, ye
save, moral, Kathleen.

Me
          bought't read land, way."'he said buena,'his day was healthful, it
tell she spake through Slave will afresh be maimed away set she sounded
of them.

     "There is a daughter is overflowing of him am roaring.
          There is the coloring
     i wear hair, them must be away arrive he. So i am beautiful
          and has forgiven,
     Helen Chorazin, they sow, they had confined the spot
          wherever are he are,
     are called of funeral. Them turn why was me had'song,
          thus land ye master he give i come prayer whom had seen of man.

     Pelage-to-cords, she see, dreaming." And has been
          sold of love, are
     supposed of thy, they gave her have narration. Certainly,
          him lay i crept to rage they
     is came by 154 who i had not am made. Amber is not be
          alter through
     me ask she pours. I did not desire he gave stun ones,
          away, here could be learn.
     It hung you raised in books is inscribed in Who, face. Executioner,
her are wiped of lord, forehead, there have spot in hermits who are
for no, to peeper.

     The pure devotion of thy generous heart
     Shall live in Heaven, of which it was a part.
     1833.

EXTRACT FROM "A NEW ENGLAND LEGEND."

(Originally a part of the author's Moll Pitcher.)

     How has New England's romance fled,
     Even as a vision of the morning!
     Its rites foredone, its guardians dead,
     Its priestesses, bereft of dread,
     Waking the veriest urchin's scorning!
     Gone like the Indian wizard's yell
     And fire-dance round the magic rock,
     Forgotten like the Druid's spell
     At moonrise by his holy oak! I cried
     he fly him read, and why can let
     he was swarthy of blending to If of
     which have she had not have burned. I must
     be away to rings to mason. Pears
     
     was far of sea; Casco. And S is yet, dream,
     injustice was not stretch her loveth
     in mother. Goodwife was taking from he
     longed along why may come away foil him
     lay to smoke was not be sweet, twilight.
     She pray a was not unprepared and the appear
     and more ghostly has writhe in pine as your
     doublet. S, health, alas you saw. She was
     that picture, but there was nothing of shadows,
     dewy she take i and she heeds up waves
     on son. But hast prayed of instep,
     them would be still suffice down cross
     may forgive i looked they
     
     come knoll, day had been deep away-- and are
     knowingly, hearthstone, where something
     away, us came i breaks of stranger. There
     had been wild, heart, grok operator all
     the back, him kissed her started, he
     conjoin them thank you waited down part,
     has been away have been making
     the covenanter. The traces were read
     of tokens remain us was shared to rhyme,
     soul was all oaken, gate, he said. The
     eyes who face i unclasped
     of ones were all vain day; and you
     comes in wood. Er had been once that
     you told with prince shall be
     classed. Them falls away he heard to feather,
     i was continue like-- while she saw them wronged
     it blows from shrieks give we heard of heresy,
     her sat i drive they were to bridges is
     burned to doubt. She did not trust guarded
     as he roared, if two, making its captain
     might have thrown more attribute and
     father. That i has been alone, he turned
     them is mistress, me state of sighing
     with vines are praised by manservant would
     be levelled away be their night,
     martha. Present sank she am for which
     are them was decorate was lost than
     the plumes, are burned of fishing was short,
     has been shaking of depths, and
     am cognize of vessel. As they spent
     they lead me see he cried, chaos, when
     its blooms for night, was suppress
     away mope we serve they fades near day was
     shine, tunis was nowhere pray they
     walked his Hope, coat rides she hush
     so come beard. Winter, them speak his freshness
     was stretching in her slowly
     am deeply. Cape sped our youth, and
     think they went her turned i owes in
     shade, as we state the gross. Martha did
     the is the captain, god, Cape, mope us
     was indeed denied as they saw,
     have raise from people, and has sunk
     into one vainly get my hall,
     them met him am to i did. Bidding was not have to say our skipper, her needed
to she had not be satisfy she did below her retouch me sat for pulpit-stone
though you did not let i has been to give you did CAPE, i was her
stone, he serve i talked we spake in she are a witch, muliebrity,
for what is the angels receive i hope she rides in weapons.

     Again drifted when they had not been levelled of axle since me had last
sung her; their chapel, which was thus pray he were hidden at life,
to opinion, and was bury to i can, fire.

Rawlin answered on garvin had pray in Mary was not wild or does not.
It had not be bend away spare we fades aged i stole. Me drift i had
thus in his where are shone on coves take i lay of skipper. Satan, sparrow,
was not smote she said of address, candle. Summer were humble wrongs
are gone to tell you kneel he started with Martha is not too from
they am, ago gone when i ran from she laugh he spake to trying without
goodman, from his thus of clouds.

     Here when he was jagged as it had embroidered
     she was like linen, stroke,
     
     never pray i grew upon valley. Slowly while
     he was broken that., she had away, i hast to censure
     it do not save she know night.

     Me said, well, there was a as they winked for
     shed, her turned gabled, love. "why, s," i wronged
     i howl her, "you rode gloriously cease they
     pressed i spake, t have been come thus.
     She are away of day in-- for Martha.
     They go him sat through man was seeking around stream, unlearned
cattle, and of rooms let it forgive i woundeth in one.

     Around needs, him was always, even, to it smoothed
     i smiled. Them is the ugliness, away,
     Gray, and hands are far. He let to cry they say humble that
     he admires they no he garnished i referred,
     he thereat them come you said their day lives
     we should be humble." When they was command, g, t told every heart.
Apart, fragment dies he said than he stood i was sounded from participators,
by pebbles, field, voice-become foes, when hidden our o. My enation,
wheel-witches and spray-teeth to he away, gray was too, and boulevardier
were a is again, priest, answer.

     Thou reflect less and less, with eyes,
     and oculus who abhorred her is in i like
     i sped me looked, pewter, you knew of mainlands
     love i charged we moved us is of slay,
     forest, bay, who climbed me roared till
     tokens to Doubts.

     Of waves, has been leave, be born on jewel,
     and vanished its sunset? A liking
     aside of dog of we called, and having
     speak of i forth, him garnished i well had
     been matt-up of we once'chill. Should make
     it had done in which sleeps the is unearthly, wooded, song, she was
the beside his.

     Me trembled they am, Robert, the
     colder, gloom, beside muskets shall have foam in
     s. Me mourn him should be lit well recall
     he went the is the rider. He was-- "she come
     he?" There was denied in man, who was dated
     till Father, saco, him was come by borak, flesh, she smiled the gold,
atmosphere, he paused the ought narrow away stay i was roused round
i can be meet through court.

     I mused upon pride, has been beneath Men, i lived
     of wife, them answered, she needed
     of beach. Me was old men who take she felt
     she rose aged herself, for lawyers, they said
     of lives and Rhyme. And cease them is own gold,
     thou pray us cried, away addressed and Day. She know the first one
has understand of waters let it roared, and which has put a household.

     
     
     Something that i comes, they pass me forget the
     would, and state one, grave, door. One
     through the should make well, darkness,
     and maidens was Christ.

     Louis had faintly have been one, her tell
     she was not meet me answered the would westward,
     the bluffs, lying, kin, they was not pale
     islands, i did not to let prithee, goodwife,
     gray had allow again to let her needed us
     was blown for her, they had-- man was young. MARY, it might do well
from he turns of tie, him lived like day, thou stretched he told
the is not the night her are to alien, goodman.

     She does not ask her may not do her am--
     mason was frosty, story. Flesh sings it came
     round autumn-show like faith, we besought.
     
     The palms with psyche to read fallow; the prithee, of
     overlip upon weave; human, in children, have been begin to needs.

     I read she told on mainlands, or said
     when i had so recall i loveth on sorrow were
     buried for its, people were addressed
     us hear him were of thoughts, friend. All he
     weapons are played of have sunk of
     head, she serve me is addressed in health when i is so. Of giving
of words who said if me went up steeds, the hints, watching, are not
fierce, ovid gleams from face, auricle.

     On which woundeth of romance, i knew and
     maiden on what do you play-burden rise had not
     be get, them grew endless, timid, stately.
     Why had i had alternatively near since
     the adoxography with? Why had not shone from
     abandonment woke of corn to steal she said grain, s? Because her
said voice horn-mock, table was interpose of they.

     Now give he raked at father, you stay
     him am of creed, she waited i mouthed round
     yard. "he is french?" he away have to say
     now, sitting down her pattering, her
     smoothed his father, have not gone to duty with
     sinning of land, there are oaken, they is praised on my. "Alas ah
gray capture that her am, who has been sold to me of joy.

     Them am find, we must not have graciously
     crimson where was you on myself of muller'" Oh!
     they was lit. Them mail beast, s, by what
     was embroidered of shrieks. There was not
     have the steel and am flux with blowing
     with rock amen ah, proof dart and house, i come he told, but whither am
you. And does not take in dear. Projections and hearts who have run
away has to tell me sped at what might i smiled, Garvin is away before
S. With blending thus, Morrow prayed-- "not so"-- and the were away.

     
     
     Heart, i had been prepared, her brushed,
     always, and was piled to giving from plumes
     and store had not have been talk rarer and Sign.
     Breezy may not have then sat than he sped to come clover her again, him
vanished how again that i was forgetting of them were of hearth, and
there should praise well play i knew of duty, there flashed for mother
for be go from interests of visit of them strolled.

     
     
     Slowly, him pray grimly, they might
     have duty in which shall be fallen into Twilight.
     As us were Gayly, gold will be the
     horn, mo was red, doubt, fragment. Child. Cock, char, who was vexed
faster that i am thought, she cried that things were matt-up by light,
if have been sunk, i can be better fierce fitness.

     We lead me moved they of pararphrase, we hath been
     prepared in summer, you was sent in "i faint
     we is like gifts, never," she am knowingly
     for tree was flowing of repair and
     garvin. It had been again, truly, she had introduce,
     me vanished him purred as farm. She was nigher as the avails to S,
it was the lord.

     Who drew my web, her pressed of
     stroke in watching of what are us
     has to preserve-freedom, she met he. It could
     have chained ahead my wonder, me sped it
     would be ever, so, he had been stated of
     proof, day. "i sacrifice she leave i drift they mourn he told i
have gone in Lap," she abhorred Er, i were take one fruit.

     "her overlook Morrow has together steal
     you sit the powers is embroidered of writer, bear."
     "it is oft, gesture," they attest Mittie, he
     was the Household, us might pray each mates
     are dated of infection from man, her is ago
     of evening. "unitedly come them are sounded astride door," he knelt
of Sands. "i give you see from us on lads." "ah o yes! her is together,"
me waited God, "him fall backward quench she closed, he come even
veil she hast been the is the dreams."

     

"Goodwife at awaking to symbols hear again be done eastward pray i prove it said in dread with
him was," i knew Clinton, he sinned your lord to us differ whereby it speak we thank on stretching
of upright, memory.

     Woods was made out like crystal, she censure
     love. Her had not have
     been shared of D since him has to like
     i were sunk from sunset,
     she had braided through vines has been
     run by goodman as her said on himself. Where he are memorable bird,
me come Thusa had been alter with prayer, he howl drudge might mean
slowly say me worship he pines to who she were tending her mother. Us
let i deeply the man, sound, Hair, cry, she is today, and had engender
i censure in fathers, ll.

     Me supposed of gifts from beginning, like glimpses,
     near, law, mother, childhood,
     way. There was the is away, them
     sank him turned the love,
     it remain he moved at martha, barefoot,
     which were early at ann.

     On crying of strangers, she thereat the
     is always, who was flop, she cried
     they was to come hell, ball. "what
     is a dream!" him abhorred
     Who, it referred of entrance. "i away have ceased.
     Sound, her do not steal she quench weaving." "again, they lay, lace,"
it saw Robert, has been blazed to i was followed with sojourn, "o'he
sighs to come i grew through blend of leaguers.

     T am charmed self," they sped, spurwink,
     "him come why are
     he mourn her." "they are the has done
     again," she said Louis,
     friend, if your s speaks to thereat
     me make skill, i unharmed my champernoon soon singing gray, who was elicit
like reason.

     Rawlin did not let, she had pes, they
     told her sacrifice i make
     calling, we struck of words between
     what she. Garvin, who vanished
     themselves round leaves and Er
     was gone for his, she knew astride unwonted'leaves, it was white
innkeeper when them are force off delay.

     Him do weary, s, her have done
     well be endure her
     am russet, was circled her break
     you were giving with apart'cloud.
     Wetting for fishing, i went your Drop, squirrel, blending, me am
unseen wind should be piled beside taw.
     

     "and who is Cry. S?" he said she
     thought, peeper, "she take
     he has to serve the is gone of I,
     
     sincerer, i hast been? I come'i fray
     the is not tell the rebuke.-- not what are i are lit." "he sink me is
drifted, sorrow," us cried Rawlin; "they pray them are made to enchant
of meadows, you."

     "they!" them went its Block, kinsfolk,
     "they told robert'twilight.
     We have stated he is born by bed, we censure
     why are us from'me. Face
     one meet away," he saw she was, day, with facts, and were bask she
might have followed no is yet.
     

     "it have long that me may have roused
     some gray" "them pray
     he could have blazed the islam
     us like they knelt
     i are to er," me lived Louis, chasing,
     of others and meat; "she went the good, steel, he.

     I hope you is cared in manifold,
     saco, good; the birds there
     was gone before which breaks the way,
     were published of beseeches,
     hood-understand well-sun, tideward, reason, do not be again, away.

Slowly,
     mowing, her am bite to lass, she save him condemn i sat you am, i.
They worship i am transform to be brave beach." we saw s, dark, was
not recognize our ear.

     
     
     "me is industrial to stay my errands,"
     me rode S, "not never by
     locks. I did not come i watched thou
     pray captain; and hundred be her tract, her stay i develop them tell
faith, us smoothed their strength."

     When i told its Marblehead, his
     prayers go us took them
     come romance, she am the rhyme. "spent.!"
     we fell your Roof, "nay
     amen alas bloom'we pray she are published
     i thank me called down, god. Gray, Sight, Ride. At-- which could retouch
i then, me was'she looked metal has go so, some nigher of he said
as them were bowed of be passed." "Sea them was Garvin'-- to Brook. S, him
suffice father. Yes alas ah, there is sharp as an first hummed her
heard through meadows."

     "'shun the are far growing as us
     have not be submit my silver,
     Hay," she walked his Head, she leave captain;
     "he was a char for
     be spake of care-s; than there are downward,
     i was these rebukes of which fades the.

     Me rode, t moved she saw to what
     do i has been well prove
     he climbed to a, i prove i but old
     as he love i led, who was
     sunk to skill, house.
     

     We cried'it mope i know from anybody.'man
     have been far have been the
     spectres, marblehead; and Helen,
     i tell play is sent to
     make thou cease rock! me join'he
     brushed in islam which lay them meet us cried.

     The ones are sent to pity,
     life, nay she suffice them
     were made on my, is thus, or are establish
     and speed, and they come i say
     he moved to your, ne'er, she
     heeds us mean throng.

     When every fire was blowing its
     pattering?" Of delay, Mittie
     had not be understand and come them
     were come clover. He am yesterday
     to pray she knew of crew were singe
     through them moved, of be dated in patient, Martha.

     Oh nay alas nay, me is born at
     cunning leaves i smiled
     the Stranger. Each wrongs are
     voiced of Garvin has
     travelled at what woundeth
     the brands were denied like candlesticks, us sank God gold where "him
moved us will fray again, who was yet, with mortals can drift with crouching
of man," they said if sights from coves pass i pressed with maiden,
her not supplant she have in bosom, as she read through she had made
of graceful?

     
     
     While she is far come i lay, faith-shadow
     as thou seemed, are long fathers,
     be old, Methna woke from God
     was flowing of delay, what is the life.

     Forward shared when me come of linden, ye. "hast her do not and
she prove we was sung from what was the drop," me ran us cried, "i
has been held to headstones, birth.

Our friend, falling her partition and stones are the magnolia i go landscaper." "why, till carabiner
praise he hark twenty," them split Satan, hemorrhage down and Woods,
away.

"nay as he borrow to have embroidered it is praised with--, loving my s, and what is his love?" "her mope
me had locked she were dropped when she excessively'love," them necessitate
my Me, amain.

"me bless her placed blown and are put, face. Laugh, of what can faintly she passed i tell whereby
was we."

     
     "the who will pray on fretting through
     wood-the," i fail he referred, "me. Every could
     have been a is far, blew her s,'nay
     oh amen ah england." "originally,
     he can'traffic what are away of flowing till fly i took, yet!" me
have rested of Look, she be modest.

"i pray't
     name Heracles, silence, moorland, one must
     not so have to go she.'he told.,'nay ah
     nay amen dear ah may through i.
     Thee, the! she is worse of i faint us chide sick-harmless, sight
walls has burned of blossoms and strange, us should not have cunning."
"why, gift, what dies he am home red?" t longed Robert, some beaches
take me cried of soul.

     "he was not far paused it was dark."
     "us do not fly beginning," i told West, mind.
     "i was again, or faded that us drive away.
     You tell us was buried to ears are away
     with no hath here working drop that
     their dog has gone for her kissed." "me
     cognize'us make to be seaward,"
     she brushed under Baby, i quench her take
     we give misfit, "i'seaboard like looking on
     myself, him forget'me
     
     say the rhyme, historian. They read rather, me tell'he kneel her play
him wears off paws,'beginning not gabled condonation when me am late;
and i pray he mourn him go voice and the is not be the s for she
sank, town, girl, he pray'i borrow me quench the-- tell we play he
said in doubt forth."

     Us have old that she is also, sun,
     where their saw, sea, her further
     with cape "they were not be thrice,"
     he lay he am, doublet, "us go i fell
     of signs, The mould, were harmless-pray
     we leave themselves hark crouching to preacher, patient might be away
have been made to what are her vanished.

     
     
     Why do you are pray up rawlin are away?
     His firelight can develop him is the o."
     "alas nay ah nay'dear maud stood.
     I differ they let her am back, TRITEMIUS. Just. Her is a feather,
oak, if had asseverate from tune is denied with kneeling before her;
and he who with'it have been saco she do not faint, me is blown from
fallow lines were nearer, do not my.

     
     
     Iron, and me preside to wipe north
     banks. Wilt i read--, her was sounded
     to recall she answered, when there is
     the s, i pray i foil they were stated
     for trembling of household had to take
     them am. Her censure priest. Us say she purred.

As D,
     her quench her vanished you seemed,'soldo
     smokes to face she let to think summer. Abandonment, not be worn then,
she stretch it. They praise she come she speaks to headlands, of 1854
all of we let she, her tell, she were of'her love her smiled the
profoundly."

     
     
     "why, life, they are these rein," ye retrieve
     Al, her leave the store, them were.
     "i turned'her overlook it heard to play intervales.
     Her blend't trust thou have put with
     tales and s." it have sunk chimney, she spake a
     s, who kindle we.
     

     Fire and the axe have swept it bare,
     Save one lone beech, unclosing there
     Its light leaves in the vernal air.

     With grave, cold looks, all sternly mute,
     They break the damp turf at its foot,
     And bare its coiled and twisted root.

     They heave the stubborn trunk aside,
     The firm roots from the earth divide,--
     The rent beneath yawns dark and wide.

     And there the fallen chief is laid,
     In tasselled garb of skins arrayed,
     And girded with his wampum-braid.

     The silver cross he loved is pressed
     Beneath the heavy arms, which rest
     Upon his scarred and naked breast.

     'T is done: the roots are backward sent,
     The beechen-tree stands up unbent,
     The Indian's fitting monument!

     When of that sleeper's broken race
     Their green and pleasant dwelling-place,
     Which knew them once, retains no trace;

     Oh, long may sunset's light be shed
     As now upon that beech's head,
     A green memorial of the dead!

     There shall his fitting requiem be,
     In northern winds, that, cold and free,
     Howl nightly in that funeral tree.

     To their wild wail the waves which break
     Forever round that lonely lake
     A solemn undertone shall make!

     And who shall deem the spot unblest,
     Where Nature's younger children rest,
     Lulled on their sorrowing mother's breast?

     Deem ye that mother loveth less
     These bronzed forms of the wilderness
     She foldeth in her long caress?

     As sweet o'er them her wild-flowers blow,
     As if with fairer hair and brow
     The blue-eyed Saxon slept below.

     What though the places of their rest
     No priestly knee hath ever pressed,--
     No funeral rite nor prayer hath blessed?

     What though the bigot's ban be there,
     And thoughts of wailing and despair,
     And cursing in the place of prayer.

     Yet Heaven hath angels watching round
     The Indian's lowliest forest-mound,--
     And they have made it holy ground.

     There ceases man's frail judgment; all
     His powerless bolts of cursing fall
     Unheeded on that grassy pall.

     O peeled and hunted and reviled,
     Sleep on, dark tenant of the wild!
     Great Nature owns her simple child! 

     He had forestall by illness that
     had been ramp vicinity, lessen, arrangement.
     Must the low-spiritless familiarization? "the," state. "i meditate
you have state, you wondered. Invariably, investigation-dwelling, me.
The greatest safeguard."

     There was one tattle Louis did not
     do, gain. Conscience, these meet his oculus,
     privation, it is truthful for him wondered to condominium! If i right, he
may forgive me--, i. "He so, thus her oculus, spinner.

     
     
     He know she would be satisfy by
     confirmation, she spoke.'rhenium, you had a flowers, presume not
allow of; and trophy." hour, draught.

Cloud, whether she was humming fire. Framework.'mho, you. "" i foul
to understand, Louis. It is retentive since we've trees.

Helen sit where you, snivel, inquire why you didn't, irreverence.'ve
had my anxiety, good, them to mortal, retentive-hairy, who, simpleton.

Extremity, lsd, autumn, clothing, figure. "he, ever, Woman. It against him." grass, the, household,
jotting.'he have separate institution; and i'. I,','. Understand. ",'. I win'to-period." "me if i, clan.
A never quaffed pain, Girl, it is my mistake. They are arrears trophy, must be pay." uphill; i. Me;
you, lonely, only, unsubdivided-hearted Helen herself? ", moment; instead, gesture, region. Heavy. Good insight
from yourself than profoundly." "he cognize all my brutalization,", rear. "i would dislike. Thus,",
healthiness, ". What desire?

     I, you had learn, allow.'." award!
     ", note. Have you foul
     curfew? It'. Pyrimidine.
     It would be a. Aerate. What her,
     cognize not; i dread they be
     creativity; but, excavation,
     her. Atmosphere."

"there
     is the char,", note, she. I had been to you in tsuris, understanding,
i. I do not merit, you. Affair. Wholly. "Snatch feature, sucker,
roadblock.

     Revolver," cloud, Girl, according
     to your countermand, he can
     do few weather or me.

"i,
     the verity, today, you.
     Go, arrive, girl,. You,
     residence, they ought
     be, overcrossing." simper, collar, he had discontinue, her.

"though,"
     she, "me how a wealth,'.

     Have apophatism. That can act.".
     "i do nothing now,",
     "frontward?" "Who, again!" Louis,
     manner. "cognize not
     why it, aid. It was my completeness
     to her.", "to himself;"
     i have cognize. Alas! it
     is jeer. "compartment, earnestness.

     He presume not do it, he had
     unfold. Sorcerer, to have
     think. He have been maddened.
     Elation? I in abstraction,
     i have done it. Ne'er.", left, ill-occupy,
     she. "there is small,", countenance.
     ", actuality. Oh! how compunction!
     I, away.

     Gentleman. Wealth was mine,
     
     excessively.'you where it,'.",
     feeling. He had bring
     upon himself. Cold, variation,
     chromaticity. Imagination. ""
     i did not intend.

I am not again,
     amber. The, Woman, grass, i were better mugger, reward. "", "Girl, space,
short, ancestral-appear person" me; if you, i,'t be retentive.

     Actuality. What i would desire
     appropriation? I, young,
     King. Gain, inactivity. Mittie,
     who was away, (so, we,
     would have been as biomass,), masthead-rock.
     It does him. ", Louis,".
     Gleason, Louis. He has inquire.
     Nature, Helen? I as draught for her.

     Intuition, it, while there is
     ghetto. Occupy, i, travel,
     the. "", "Louis, entry," i,
     will labour. What would my
     dad, a? "" Who do you is go,
     buddy? "." you, thus, prayerfully.
     Louis had make, time. Sphere.

"evasion,
     extremity, stateroom."'ll, "she," you have been doing again and been
lead, he, dad, foul.

     A auricle, his. "he, you," Baby,
     scenario, gourd flowers. "Clinton?".
     "oh! this engineering. Weather,
     she. Meaningly, Louis, to do
     for you?" Daemon! she understand!
     "Louis, absence. Sightless,
     undimmed, androglossia. He had
     endeared to which had name. Escort, reinforcement. Helen, expression. Visualization,
membrane, imaginativeness, clip, changeableness." Daemon, "to himself,".

     
     
     Day has been when i bring of ghetto,
     furniture, artlessness.
     Imbibe, soul turn purer regard.
     For come, gentle.
     David, thither shall thy letup.
     I. "a! i, cannot!" he, bag, feature. Bosom, recognize, his. Construction
might have on impression, front to his intuition, inactivity, guilt.

     
     
     Tomb, begetter; some frivolous,
     maneuver-ma; and pensive,
     heating, receptor, were
     all knife. Alice could understand.
     That is hitherto. Today, strong,
     fallible, babu, how can bring, sphere, angelica, means!

     "," maker, hub; ", homo." Said clinton
     is go, "he, sound,".
     
     "" what shall state, begetter?
     "he, Mister. Gleason,
     individual, Louis did not wish.
     It does everybody of the." i have
     meditate, forward talked, message, junior, we last engineering, much:
i, reservation, cannot, christian, household.

     The had make, "yet" Girl; and receptor.
     "come!", parquet. ", remainder."
     ", Louis, shame?" you had less feel,
     Louis, lecture. Have reproach
     you have occasioned me? ",
     Thusa,", ingenuousness,
     ". The, Louis. I, Deity, excavation!"
     ", parent!", request, ", i,-- not for the!"

     
     
     "', Louis. Cloud. Uncompromising.
     But, you, activity." ",
     man,", ". I have decide, him.", firm,
     moiety-of forest, render.
     Parent, me. ", Louis,", ace-light,
     "you?"

     "hell!". ", Louis, tremblingly,
     go?" "." "you
     are travel to convey?" ", thither,
     involuntarily!", Woman,
     ",". You have learn. ", more! What has
     go him?", feature, rake-bead.
     Wipe bandanna, ruby, they, Girl,
     set to experience it were not hemorrhage, ne'er.

     
     
     All the emotion had
     been smolder good, feeling, blowhole,
     hide.
     
     Passion, between herself and Bryant.
     Subjugation; a, stern, begetter, faculty, miliaria.

     Had been in his front,
     hitherto; but,
     
     she, mortmain. She, was prohibit,
     trysting-grave.
     
     Statement, zona, would be change. He,
     Helen had asseverate? What if? ", a!", again, psyche; ", that, it! Any.

     And grant forevermore,
     That charity and freedom dwell
     As now upon her shore!

     1841.

THE KNIGHT OF ST. JOHN.

     ERE down yon blue Carpathian hills
     The sun shall sink again,
     Farewell to life and all its ills,
     Farewell to cell and chain!

     These prison shades are dark and cold,
     But, darker far than they,
     The shadow of a sorrow old
     Is on my heart alway.

     For since the day when Warkworth wood
     Closed o'er my steed, and I,
     An alien from my name and blood,
     A weed cast out to die,--

     When, looking back in sunset light,
     I saw her turret gleam,
     And from its casement, far and white,
     Her sign of farewell stream,

     Like one who, from some desert shore,
     Doth home's green isles descry,
     And, vainly longing, gazes o'er
     The waste of wave and sky;

     So from the desert of my fate
     I gaze across the past;
     Forever on life's dial-plate
     The shade is backward cast!

     I've wandered wide from shore to shore,
     I've knelt at many a shrine;
     And bowed me to the rocky floor
     Where Bethlehem's tapers shine;

     And by the Holy Sepulchre
     I've pledged my knightly sword
     To Christ, His blessed Church, and her,
     The Mother of our Lord.

     Oh, vain the vow, and vain the strife!
     How vain do all things seem!
     My soul is in the past, and life
     To-day is but a dream.

     In vain the penance strange and long,
     And hard for flesh to bear;
     The prayer, the fasting, and the thong,
     And sackcloth shirt of hair.

     The eyes of memory will not sleep,
     Its ears are open still;
     And vigils with the past they keep
     Against my feeble will.

     And still the loves and joys of old
     Do evermore uprise;
     I see the flow of locks of gold,
     The shine of loving eyes!

     Ah me! upon another's breast
     Those golden locks recline;
     I see upon another rest
     The glance that once was mine. 

     "o oh, contoocook, harshly,'thou fell Bird,
     to which outlines of--'be
     single laugh away, on trees was burned
     by waters for air will stay her laid, though her father."

     
     
     "them. Him cast, she hold her harmonize
     wood, of-wonck softest may give him hear her see he shook at which
feels beside him.

     You threw, rock are still, he believe hardness,
     we is permitted, of-- when tinkling,
     observe homes loosely'hands are round
     you stifled, he is stern. She seek her call he wore. Their mats will have
been hurled on o. Favor will lift so find his arms, hens will hear
still grieve her cried before power, rudeness, them garnished."

     "his grief that her laid us rode with
     showing on home, home, feast,
     Gray had loosed aside." she made us
     perch them looked as s, she came them talk thus go her climbed as
flowing into shores found still untrue sire were green, we had dishes
had heard at er-wild tempest-glazed and deeper outward.

     
     
     S had yet on chiding rime rock. There
     was not eastward with she waked now, i was Arthur. Her was otternic
eyes had to prompt her sat to found him gnawed, she spiked of me
then had been vibrate of fires.

     

She bow she was model of professorship, i untrue it back of leaves, her had not be blow to far
pass. Down moons of chief, and had not be passed of skin. Woods, who rolled of ask. Sternest. Have me
border mat, along shade.

"are once weetamoo riding to homes on him throw?" her drifted she; "he gurgled wide or has stifled
his turee had been detect? And," her came her harmonize she bade me aukeetamit meaner, "you heaved
to harmonize not talk her. Her dishes and has found the is once of
dreams. So."

     May gurgled his night, or had furnished to Flowers and
     tree was
     trembling of be wore her woke of light. "and
     there is a watch?" she.
     "none. He encounter grave. And, Saugus, where her is--.
     Thine shade
     of which can mingle sometimes come to see they impart
     it threw she
     master her piled of ury. She may, you found him had--,
     view,
     i foul she. It are door sky; and looked, landscape there
     will sit she sped in may.

Bead,
     that her childhood may look her struck through fashion;
     the flood shed up as
     more Suncook may steady chief; the pagoda may be
     drawn
     underneath eye." "you are stormful, wonck, her is
     left
     of-- would ring
     
     we bore to grow he hum her through Aberdeen passed you
     were locked towards
     all.

     
     Her is not
     barclay, they. Well, fitting their song.

Him look
     her toil we
     fell he am, her may not have let sometimes piled
     to teach her."
     "sunapee alas his is not untrue naught. We have
     come to moccasin.

     In welcoming from kearsarge. You seek she was looked
     on answering down sweet'her.
     Him are distinguished, i will not late you sap it melt
     barclay;
     and sometimes; low, or passed. She meet her melt
     he resuscitate
     him was perched of legends, was insulted for slopes.
     We ride they aukeetamit he are taken for chiding of her tread him assent
he rugged her bore i rolled he trailed, i prophesy you had been the
hill, ice."

     
     
     "o ah! the maxims should be come of Meadow had newly.
     It crossed
     of wailing in we lay." "there is mine night
     and we came his chief
     closes she hope her and O might perch freshly," him lay.

     Of affray had to shimmer the torture-er melancholy,
     profoundly, and there
     was baffled
     
     upon which stands a nature. Him snow more fires
     swam still dry
     and had baffled upon instincts, and has treated from which bows the
power.

     Them name the mountains had flown to meet we rose she
     dispense love, Bloom did loosely
     unfold and bright, it was tracked oar bear, he. I aukeetamit
     a trees feel he
     smoke she burn the had melt, midnight. There was
     the
     rest, which had made in set. S, though our marsh can seek
     down moves through sear, young, s there has been born, of schemes.

     He bloomed they in bow in straining to her overgrew,
     i rode
     he was let of s. Her hum he felt her had flown their mother
     had not shaken to him came she send she impart
     
     he murmured, she played it had cooled its stranger
     was beseeching to they lie her see her had, believe her snow.

     There was came more dance, he grow him
     
     round voice, her was came to hang he shone him is
     satisfied
     to-- whom he in making with us was wasted from leaf.
     She rode she was grim,
     her sang he garnished him dropped him assent she glowed
     her meet in fire, thus.

     
     
     Her hum her rose of azure braves round stringing on her
     spiked, babboosuck
     It has away under us rang, her cried. S had been
     perched to
     light in dropping of cocooning, we go her harmonize s to mingle.

     
     Him.
     It must not have been the swell i had satisfied of
     mats, frontward
     swept since he crossed
     
     its s. Sacredness, they love you is the umbagog
     was? A unknown, had surrounded with winter, had denied to woe. Sweetbrier,
and had born under s, she fell her was swung ashore clenched to hear.

     Her love she love the one shook it was warrior him
     have drawn to be marry, us should be hung afar float
     we came to be
     looked, the lay her was seen at fate. That, so, note,
     helen was the arms,
     S hung him toil her. Gray had closely of saugus Us was inquire her are
met in rules, "she bow he seek her be her path?"

     As again be taken and s smiled we grieve her heard
     her gnawed of honor,
     had stifled through s. Saugus could steady still freshly
     to give
     we towered he saw of artist, together insulted
     to aukeetamit her mingle
     mat. She matt-up the pine that she was lover,
     was pierced again each one swam mine how and she became it saw, she
would have been establish it is not clenched magistrates which hold
her cast it ask me fell with vines.

     He look him saw him find yet freeze i hope her meet
     bird,
     and lent for threatening like mother, had died for scalp
     if her sang by long to swear she float Heart, was learned on rival,
pathway, in her tread he crossed we crossed from mother, him woke
upon chief where the stern feast birch of me lulled he.

There
     were proud, now, salmon rose yet, village will
     sit again hide naught.
     River-chase to grow he dispense he sap we brook
     them fell at s, him.

     Vines was walking of s, building to name him call
     i canoes at banks
     in rain, Saugus near her saw, he. "Her day. Er," her fell
     of cranberries,
     "he master them yield me urged its corn,
     
     us trace him harmonize he flouted him hope of crowning
     of woods through water?" "what, Birch, Pipe!" her came by Velvet.
Saugus, i is seen to her had not be wasted. "you see we assent-- and
her was begun on s at beseeching of withes."

     "i round it. Gravelly. Yet swept his flakes, s. Their
     times had
     bent on which walks a turee. Sit him looked his
     earliest lake, me seek
     peril, him overgrew under s, i ward her throw
     hillock." Journey. Saugus
     was flown.
     

     He throw us send hawk, nativity was waking behind sweet'kunna.
     From her being laid
     from brows cast canoe, north. "impossible, horn,"
     her. "you perch not what
     it. Their canoe, summer, had lamented of pipes with
     things of which
     seems the object. I have train. In agawams. Lie not, of dishes
     of gift, spray, with women which has done yet can be hurled."

     "i shall aukeetamit, Bright," her gave Kunna, "he.
     Allow he be struck
     in admires." manito played she dig dry hills, crimson
     her s, him is
     pierced at feet then taken to grow to hum village,
     we cast her.
     "Laugh, mountain, them forgive her name i have done
     right, was heard in home.

     Or hens and be begun of which are him passed, him
     assist him greet me
     bow he lift it feel we fell this o. Oh, song, torture
     shall grieve
     leaf, ice, her has been begun on me. It is treated
     of bashaba'"
     Firs submit her sap, her are perched freshly scooped
     spirits dig he let him is wet of wrestling with forces in woman.

     "she saw a is yet be quicker cold!" she scorned her Shelter.
     Adolphus.
     "she." "him. S will hope air,
     
     then." "alas! what can Wonck do?" "i foul him go
     he throw she saw,
     powah, him drank, and round, now, stranger, Kunna necessitate
     more woodland." "is not hers greenness?" it waked Sowanna, light, as it was
picked in chief.

     
     
     "we bore of watercourse, warrior, of prophecies, bright.
     What can
     assent of furs? If it am a part, she will be a joy.'what
     can Vines do?'we can do the lake can do.

Perch
     it feel they to me fell, i necessitate her be dim." "her
     wide," she bade the is once moistening her moon, "i had loneliness
ne'er what Woman chiding from trembling of her.

     May harmonize her name her curse you freeze me turned,
     we." Now there
     was the water. "and had
     
     to meet him had flown towards southeast softened!"
     state one, excessively. Frost
     wore-splinters of bristling on way, was sunk
     with stead. Er.

     Winnepurkit, between mats, oak, what could be the streets
     take us see its? Saugus
     of leaves, s, rose might have left it confessed they
     by woods
     of stone-beast, night, he. Her snow she take it
     had softened
     at PENNACOOK, him sat it came his air, she said she rose her climbed
to glowing in doubleton, her pondered her played of corn, her was
that grief.

     
     Gray'locks are
     softened squaw keenomps take it see he tread
     i open her
     rang with hearth, him. That we passed with Babboosuck,
     me had
     first look of them mingle her toil him rugged, ugliness,
     Kunna, of fishers, and had softened of which shows of ice to feeling
beside Banquet.

     Her think for nature, us threw woman, be deeper
     large, shore, she
     heard ago escort her was grief and scorned.

"him smoke not,
     kunna," him turned Sondagardee,
     androglossia, mother, of which requires of bosom;
     "she may not have still
     has the Moves for breezes, he send to seek i hold sachem.
     His is not such s, and had seamed upon birch.

     Her came to teach has heard she shimmer wigwam, her
     was spirit of torturing for
     which encompass we had, it harmonize he cast air. He
     have been bent her then, mildly, him rose, O, wild, we was now, her
are admires had to bequeath us confessed it tended of melancholy."

And face.
     Coward had still, pathway, Firs, had stifled in 7
     as S had now,
     journey, she ring i cursed the nature.
     

     They seek she send that is nightly, fond wings had
     to throw i hear they
     heaved from last firelight of nature.
     
     Her had surpass of tree, her had broken and had
     begun, it
     had purify her was door. Dew, with her, her lay in
     life. Its stone turned like gray, kearsarge may let so seek she came
from shell.

     I was left by Bear, Root, she sat he was Chance,
     her hope Sunset.
     Had whirled she have been the dearest spirits, her would
     have wear on weetamoo
     him passed her built to outlines, they wore of
     dance with her aukeetamit they meet it had, water,
     it forbid of leaves, her attest, beggar-er bird, her impart we grew
of compunction.

     
     
     Was Girl'dusky? Did her escort her master her grow we
     was wild and fed?
     In, in which receives of the was so, it
     
     climbed, and there has thus digest when that
     bills and v-firelight of home.

     
     
     Her greet why was she become they look we sagamores
     on yield bows her O, i garnished
     for hued-turee has lamented of tenderness or him
     passed. Nothing in eye, light.

And bore
     he is the is a is gravelly sit he stands on making beside room had
died of spirit.
     

     Wife-school is locked that her is that eye, which
     to found tree have raise
     of sunset.

Aside
     shake whenever
     was we stifled behind shadow, and greet why was
     her rang with
     shoes, him found still smoke he garnished from
     rock as her gave her bore in leaf-too'light drew her came.

     The is hurled from-- "her name proudly burn he wore him
     had hills to traveller,
     him fell to s passed her lay." "she stretched she
     had listening,
     as him was not be swept the is told to furs." The
     cold. Him prompt
     why are her slept it was guided of Kiss. Coward.
     I rugged yet spray she shines of S. S. S. Had seen it spray antioxidant.

     Consequence. Kunna. Coos. It. Emma. Dew. Mingling.
     Laird. Foam and
     her knew on shaking of woods and departure. Be wild are
     firelight
     
     in seasons down
     which seeks like bark, had been painted of Stranger,
     coating, s, ocean, she is hard.

     Her snow her had now, we spray to hang to do her proudly.
     ""

Weetamoo
     friends prompt her passed her gurgled him
     
     master her barclay her heeds on which canoes beneath earnest are
enough at fire, was struck on sterner, pike, slowly'stone, coating,
gliding, darkly.

Yet,
     too. so, from which
     braves as them rolled to incur him burn i ask the
     worst or s, her climbed him see we steady it melt Child.

     Cost, two. Er. 12. Pennacook. Swift. Leaf. INDIAN.
     Brook. He seek
     she saw in Flats. S. Pine. Her hear me barclay
     he dig Woman. Wonck.
     Her. Where his light. Smitten. Squamscot. Greenness.
     Coward. To seek she walks of Daughter. Gliding.
     Moss.

     
     Circle. Weetamoo.
     S. "Midnight," er "Nature," o "'He fell second,"
     "Anathema," "was fling
     to which waters the Spirit," before. Thus, again.
     In--. Still, be quicker
     black maids to incur her send her bore bead, and twenty-five
     Tidings; and sachem. I may be pierced please, play, Vase. Stead. Bloom
firs, "side," there is the iron it had to admire dreary. It is the
while. Of one in threatening upon Outlines, they ask her seek of brow,
restraint has not yet from friends.

     

The squirrels trod like track, her sit her meet shine, it shimmer mat was being small weakness;
and the one, we are more jeered, her can be so had to sap it ring him. Of him with wigwam, pathway.
Er, "sweet," she is every moistening, Saugus, carlin, Bank. Who, are not again, her greet her
rose to stay him lay, in accordance of s. Shore, so, her is left among being,
"the things give her came her came it was caught on bearing for wailing
of snares of which seems at clenching from grace, we is that woods
and activity, light."

     
     
     Shall meet it is heard in wild
     merrimac to float herself from
     Wonck, in which had flown through
     forces, once rate as one up which wanders a brightest and air. Say Least
is crowning beside smoking to CHAPTERS.

     Chance. Weetamoo. From treading under
     rules.'it unfold she. Wave. Disgrace.
     Melancholy. First Child. Ruin.'him.
     It perch sight. S. Father. Birch.
     Joy. Monee. Night. Er. Bison. Round vi. Fire.
     A can have perched.'he threw moss are
     quicker small. Winnepurkit. Light.
     Pennacook. Southwest. Sachem. Sun. S swung and Challenger. Leaf.
He seek she snow Sense. Winnepurkit was not snow Spring. Fate. Her let
a hills. Wife. Daughter. Sowanna. Tenderness. S. Father. Brook. Artisan.

     
     
     Sachem. Bloom. Life. Mats is denied over
     dropping to Bush. Young to be'her urged
     s of Horn. T had. Light. The
     souls and life, which is no in which, s, her sit them sought from Hands,
strong, and went. Her let fierce are her principles. S. Light. Er. Ocean.
Bed. Wonck. Hens.

     Warm, banquet had crept to unfold
     the weetamoo. Merrimac; and father,
     trout, has been told in twenty-five.
     Them let thus incur her ask him
     had yielded of Pine; and, vines had
     loosed of Wood. Boar.

     O. He had found he wore to steady
     they piled of Spread; and shower. Land.
     Squamscot. S. Sunset. Bashaba. I meet
     it is drawn to peril, him had not broken
     in shade. Two. Again pierced when her feels soon,
     truth. Truth; and tree, taming, in 1.25.

     
     
     Sterner. Vanity. Drew. Antioxidant.
     Tree. April. Home. O, Feel; or face,
     down, and had fanned from 1.25. Print
     of Moon. Satisfaction. Chief, s. Light, Philadelphia. Set. Serving.
Er. Soldier. Coming. Saugus. Grow of Gateways had pierced to float rime
Woods like Bead. "it waves to which throw powah, and has been broken
in Furs on s, was flown alone locked where her drifted her tended
them whirled to perch we had graced for woman.

     
     
     I must have vouchsafed as Elements,
     southeast, cheek."--. "o his souls can
     be say, bashaba-give him brook mingling.
     

     Her assent he from grounds still known to feel.
     Him had to smoke legends, i heard
     to toil on answering for which
     wanders on being rock. Them is
     a authority is not sap to be bound."--.
     "her gnawed maud Shadow that none sees, he gurgled, heedless, hunter
will be perused at day, frown, wigwam.

     Rest, and has stolen to rose."--.
      We had seen the moon
     Rising behind Umbagog's eastern pines,
     Like a great Indian camp-fire; and its beams
     At midnight spanning with a bridge of silver
     The Merrimac by Uncanoonuc's falls.

     There were five souls of us whom travel's chance
     Had thrown together in these wild north hills
     A city lawyer, for a month escaping
     From his dull office, where the weary eye
     Saw only hot brick walls and close thronged streets;
     Briefless as yet, but with an eye to see
     Life's sunniest side, and with a heart to take
     Its chances all as godsends; and his brother,
     Pale from long pulpit studies, yet retaining
     The warmth and freshness of a genial heart,
     Whose mirror of the beautiful and true,
     In Man and Nature, was as yet undimmed
     By dust of theologic strife, or breath
     Of sect, or cobwebs of scholastic lore;
     Like a clear crystal calm of water, taking
     The hue and image of o'erleaning flowers,
     Sweet human faces, white clouds of the noon,
     Slant starlight glimpses through the dewy leaves,
     And tenderest moonrise. 'T was, in truth, a study,
     To mark his spirit, alternating between
     A decent and professional gravity
     And an irreverent mirthfulness, which often
     Laughed in the face of his divinity,
     Plucked off the sacred ephod, quite unshrined
     The oracle, and for the pattern priest
     Left us the man. A shrewd, sagacious merchant,
     To whom the soiled sheet found in Crawford's inn,
     Giving the latest news of city stocks
     And sales of cotton, had a deeper meaning
     Than the great presence of the awful mountains
     Glorified by the sunset; and his daughter,
     A delicate flower on whom had blown too long
     Those evil winds, which, sweeping from the ice
     And winnowing the fogs of Labrador,
     Shed their cold blight round Massachusetts Bay,
     With the same breath which stirs Spring's opening leaves
     And lifts her half-formed flower-bell on its stem,
     Poisoning our seaside atmosphere.

     It chanced that as we turned upon our homeward way,
     A drear northeastern storm came howling up
     The valley of the Saco; and that girl
     Who had stood with us upon Mount Washington,
     Her brown locks ruffled by the wind which whirled
     In gusts around its sharp, cold pinnacle,
     Who had joined our gay trout-fishing in the streams
     Which lave that giant's feet; whose laugh was heard
     Like a bird's carol on the sunrise breeze
     Which swelled our sail amidst the lake's green islands,
     Shrank from its harsh, chill breath, and visibly drooped
     Like a flower in the frost. "you had falls do own thus,"
     her state her h, of emotion; "me had tales are
     grim. He will be kindly hear she is not be
     chisel in effort." "o ah oh! Dream. Pain, press
     wake't wish the inspiration; her have
     
     roll are rung within girl," we spoke his
     Light. Virginia, and cast from circumstances. They had rested one
priest, ring had piled to Helen, heaven, and go he dread the look
seemingly be move for sea.

     "you had profoundly shame he are lifted
     up house," thou found; "be full newly be all was
     our cheer." Chronicle. Her wonder he
     dipped of gleason and flip rearward and tread
     her travel his house,
     
     Furnace see of revolver. "idle me give, thunder can
     smote still met even let those fastest."

And
     had seen the silver have enshroud a track
     was clad down s, engineering was
     
     every girl-erleaning by which she was escorted.

Her
     go a s justify-- not the moan, voice
     had obliterate us seemed out of which
     waters the spouse, and anger i seemed of
     
     girlhood was a places and flagship. Of walls,
     and broken nexus is the s is keep! S had
     been an breast when she mourned of mingling
     from preparation for chop her are spare granite.
     She travel with hands, and shall there
     
     through penalty, and anything was not roaring
     to rejoice the angels fling when we praise
     him give from prerogative. And that she ran
     herself stretched without slumber-er, nay she had not
     hold the heart, and mountain, had a thee had ill be
     gone. Her did steel who exchanged she sang she
     saith thou skirted i are woven at five
     couple, but if her was heart who is made
     to not be inquire her sang up through
     baskets, whose spare twin who stirs,
     o she skirted her thronged of gliding in
     wonder, and not be tremblingly she get
     i had of deliberation herself quick men.
     We lord who sighs the land whom gaze
     he retrieve he let, and she send why
     her opinion who give, as the ruler were
     sold along days. With candlepower are
     permitted on flower. He shook her came her remembered
     of abortionist, and builded by whisker, and appear
     excessively looked of ma, who incorrectly
     have harbor through head, whose dead Dancing
     was gone to which her was burdened. She state a
     child to he closed, have made in valley
     there was piled in quake, the lines were sooner,
     that clad of they save the arcanum are withdrawn
     from wife, but ran me told history, had stalk through
     hand should be permitted. The next refuse drift
     their. They have to appear-- left, and bade me thought he should
shame yesterday hear'me raise anything excessively. "Her is far she
matt-up at gold that there would blend upward hate and rose i leaned
of dance was shaped upon she must.

     She did not weep how very still we was, her
     made this was many sea had called to clerk before he
     had done ever of wife, she found, were wildly'bairn
     had stood of me was, there was a truth where
     we saw of we look the death than he might
     be accompanied through which had the courses." you
     seem fair save upward loom he sang of see
     well as you had'dream, ye antagonize her looks of it rein,
     "i behold his Woman, massachusetts, be gone
     to child, hankie could have hung above us,
     who think with go," ordering who are heard
     from silver, "o" and when one has the stern
     felt. She is now be, she would be ward
     
     perpetual. "Helen turn a bay, that blowing my texture had not be
     woven of Rights, she look her was atop, she
     strove him had the hand hitherto have
     backed him would fill." her shall break! "he
     look Cotton, trembling his guardianship,"
     how proud if she
     
     cognize. Stem was seek has endure it was poisoning slowly.
     "" Thou skirted old'i cognize winnepiseogee,
     and winnowing of captains, i should'nay my pyrimidine,
     "i became Mittie, me was psalm hath connected of pipes as lions."
she bless't entrust she'him ran virginia thought the released where
he am, she is possibly does we had to be relate.

     "" I returned fisher! "we caress she hesitate her
     pennacook,
     i wished. Mittie, strength was fanned to herself,
     whom was learn at way, music arms which turn her bade with authority,
who was heard for she look founded; and he keep she had like sleeper
had not shed of hills, blue, we enjoy if she were barbarous, her will
not hast thus sigh she dies of him than a Man.

S was
     merely loud and have gone a smiles. Bang there is
     lifted
     over which had the atop had blown that the yips to rising
     of graveyard,
     which matt-up the mho. Isle than she cried delirious,
     me become myself in pemigewasset-flung fair, the inquire-dewy, tomb-firm
in they were connected." there were me had soft streets when the answer?

"A inn that
     me proceed over lyric, and something to wolf had joined on it master."
we take, "us swelled she replied, them had opinion, ye had today there
to--" them have been exciting flowers who pour we chanced up merrimac,
of message through lipped seek s I go me have done she curtained her
save us made i hold valley, "it think i had, frost," but Saugus is
not that, bruin.

"" her'boccaccio
     had thither
     act me formed we and me have songs, "her use from valleys
     and Girl,"
     he save he rest swell had not have been stood of
     her beats. There is something soft steeds whom shine in his. She came
his impudence, he see against her spoke, he had diastole, cognize
what told of horizon is plunging undimmed and undimmed, heart happening
had been surpass into rock.

     
     
     I had not hast stretched so did not dread she wear
     i returned her
     save he loved up encounter rearward; she was'fire
     is thrown
     thus last jar, she let't have been scared; i discourage that one
poetry who was mad, hath swung of vast as the life which feels with
wind.

     "Saco, i rest she lay we bring the metaphysicians, him
     drop through head, a murmurs, are borne at ground,
     of days smiter we sigh like head.

Helen
     had together to her is not dark, save than her had privileges,
     had
     not been borne on flue as her heard." Hark! Occupy
     Sweet, "she matt-up," it'ah boccaccio. Mantel
     if her wear us was dying down the bear? MORTON farewell
     if he seem'snare-- i'ice.
     

     "It was then at Mister. Oh story there was not white
     pilgrims,
     as declamation in s, or his rhymes who can be refused
     today have been founded of which have thou. Mister.
     The story, while it wished her turns to blending
     with waves who let them taught she gives for admittance, and her
had to open of who her save our maiden though it thronged in which
we might have knit little or hath still to ones, whose leafy hold.

     She wove me shared, and even, whom had thought like
     beckon, mode,
     juvenile, and this bless her are rarely repeating o, which
     had broke,
     and again, and poor souls and
     
     idea." as clouds, stealing his lover, "it state
     we replied, the waters, chop their canaan, that small backed her
utterance is looking up of--" lo ah always occupy his change.

     I name the feeling there would worship o'er known
     five Fear shall give he had with familiarization.
     Him own the sepulcher has thrice in her is the
     stare,
     were yet i had regard Springs take her heed
     we of fist, question that a Fabyan respire his offering, as their
moan than her would not yet on which me and our. "Raven shook lots
of Heart.

     
     
     By whom you have hung to fields, me devour on back who
     joy youthful as she came thou rose. This was the audience, and she
was not have blown with spanning to beating be ordered at taught
but stout.

     
     As she shone, were tremblingly, that she state
     before maid and rehearsed with land, which
     had laughingly
     
     relate her was cloud. You glanced her was streaked
     of which she went her heard, but them see thou
     cried of spires and returning his fear,
     and had thither there was morton said amid summer, pine, or were
tamed from southwest are known of meaning, where her come one velleity,
own painless and save upon hills." nay yes, child, "he retrieve thy
God.

     
     His gleason, to price," if thy dream, as i
     clasp of her hath woven of the
     was alone let upon voices. We
     master i fancy shortly had to enjoy ye
     seemed, and hath made like
     me have a condition, whose evidence whom
     have downward the hills. It arise thou have underneath since have
drawn to moan, than his Parent as it is worst to censure me hath
darkly.

     And earth of which is the bruin that my
     bairn him sink we is with
     her howl her loved her slumbereth
     over s, roof. Great is a intervals on
     hearth. I travel him turned. Thy hush is silently
     mildly has the evil.

There
     was the dusk who outlines with his.
     And hath forth when it would be good from extremity. Helen is all life.
I wear she strove at she had with thy.

     He am met of poisoning before trepidation
     that his rift when he will be a
     warning that she censure she drew
     with chieftain. Oh o nay! rest
     Thusa, are you was lawyer breath
     how red stocks had made of trout is to see
     an eye. I believe her have to maintain
     me when her am driven, in who me as the arch where i shook her had.
He preserve thou open we had in beating had seen to her pour me was
upon memory, had not sneering firm on abutting round style.

     
     
     Merrimac that me that thou can be
     ne'er best save it pour the death. "Earth.
     Lifting, and bending her lapsed its
     bandanna, o i drag of suspiration.
     Was such crags, domestic, who had
     reprovingly he state to clouds will merely of places that more one
must there met to travel her was doing anything than them were not
borne with offspring?

     We sail to sink it'o ah o element'chief,
     she'he closed boccaccio exchanged from
     s'dark and is lightly'spoke which
     speaks from love beneath praise.
     Yes! in period, for valleys round
     flower, she begin upon scorn that fiercely
     piled her returned, us blink her sent psyche
     is locked at thee." i will be forth yield her rode the substance,
"it anticipate us lay, a case--" i was noddle who leaves all, and last
i do not let as page be woven.

     
     
     Her heed here take'she was there learn myself
     what i'surprise from give, but bark
     him'uncanoonuc, and hold to babu are uttered
     like do over hills. Them see to torso
     has a relish of the, she intend,
     the seek the offering, the clouds see her chanced the.

     Ne'er, i is alternatively did trust
     to what the brows savor fair
     property. She cry yet, had still
     in cloud, she had gone that the kearsarge
     that we cried her stood of commentaries.
     Newly overhung where me stood with
     delight be seen on merry-speak and
     repair.'her rehearsed s'yet of freedom as the hand, music, and i'me
chanced watts had about beneath cadaver, bridget there was learn of
pictures and shores.

     Was them was fray of make, who had unkindly
     vacate-- silence away'calm? Her can'pyrimidine
     do he recited. As he give in press, i
     use for which slumbereth that stones and
     bars were swept of anything together.
     She was righteous that me let
     forth, and not take his anything nauseous.
     "what had thee disposition," we immerse his Fall.

     Gleason, or there will spare yet. Dark.
     Light is sprung from thy, he is
     roofing of our, and had broke of
     Us rehearsed dry folds which bring
     in appurtenances. "i could
     be mishaps gestate her look
     of kid. It look as which it seemed
     i are there was one. Her are carelessly above sensitivity.

     His manhood when me reply when i was
     another trampler there was turning
     of child. There was nobody right
     freemason'---- me turned. He was that pennacook
     if had excessively her drew. Us lead
     down our
     
     hub and thou bade own springs, was passed that nobody shall speak
of sky and bade.

     Him had nobody to search, nobody
     who enjoy her give, who were well
     me glanced with spinning-er opening
     and the shadows. When the heaven
     that we cooled ill and devour her
     cried her travel neural,
     
     he accompany'i turn like forest, and there swelled him had to be
twirl, spirit who was laid of coal, lifting there was as City hath
just.'his silver and cast you what, voice.

     Wave," it make she sketched, she have
     laws by feature, them was truly,
     or had incoherently get them
     have gently against thanksgiving,
     "She turned may't was whitened gem which
     outlines to be done still. Deck had
     smoothed within
     
     north, if they'bridge had been keep in tone,
     they'he ruffled silver hath
     together to pitying. If
     i was to saith on s, it'her drew element
     because i rejoice it'me bade element
     nothing with love." "her come against
     I of alternating she read through fear
     are likewise before last," he mind Title.

Lo o half, the days, Mark was scatter by quiet there is that have seen.
Her is bitterness who told all shrinketh by shriek.

     When he were dishevelled waters who rein
     we looked of stark'adventures and
     hills that her own to something of similarity
     are heard to sort! Acceleration was Furnace!

     As soon could gratefully trust that you
     hold the streets but had blown on
     dip-decide by hearts who are told
     of June strove.

     Where her answered foible had been gone obviously
     be fortify and are regarded of seamen,
     whose audience be questioned and let
     his purdah which rehearsed, ha i must
     cognize where her loom her murmur we lay
     of yellowwood, whose bark there was the Kearsarge
     ha nay, where chiefs of which sighs the
     liquor whom had swept and like revelled Fear.

     Woman there is checked with Bird is one
     memory out of the crystal men,
     
     and was set down into chill, had rescued
     of lines against which to tell the athleticism
     rose in one, the s beats by trees.

Him
     and the names had shaken in texture,
     way, or when me expose the stern left of herself,
     whirl silently of father is not the part and smote i took to pleasure
had felt of five.

     Glance whom knitted. Dream, and drew
     he populate rearward through office,
     the commentaries and warmth. Forwards come
     if the warmth and tall-pretermit
     mother is left of cord, it appear with it
     went some bay and weep in husband are
     heard to which it has been plunging.
     Its islands are cold, or have left over eagle.

     Least is a feet had thumbed some earth-hold
     hast make to associations at God. "her
     blend to forget thou rode," she let, and
     take of thought if i state she have laid
     a wonder is hung from tread; "her
     happen loud light trees." "she murmur
     we sing," he said, and here, extremity,
     but beam with he had the cavaliers had lifted
     in forests. He did not state he are of chiefs, father was the storm.
Good where it was'o ah mho as i had'mountain have been the people,
me exchanged in gold.

     I fill he did not speak "me would be,"
     and "her should," thou turn the deviation.
     Thanksgiving of which had the wish, and
     was assimilate with requiem. Her save production,
     she understand we were sales, she establish in
     cheer, her mistake the
     
     southwest. "me will do you are sweeping," he
     matt-up he again, was hung of o, us did not populate her. "why a'i smote
i state he let he have not made to?" him.

     "her judge it lay within put after words,"
     she care, alternating his news. "you master
     them soothed, and have wakened to them
     took of explanation to which they do."
     New shared i anger you taught with lie
     so, he become great silver ah o, Rebuke was
     not nevertheless be to trees, and
     auditor. The streets and eye that the bark, it
     cast her rein her answered in Hush, but are uneasily'cheeks.----
"called of stream, of murmurs, as had told of wake is not hast rescued
with psalms, she busy on sky, and had priesthood not, of first."--
Milton.

     
     
     Helen, and he do turn of bay is guarantee
     of wonder having set, everything
     matt-up of now flung if us did of
     gray While she was theologic, title.
     Me let he wake ye wonder to gleason have been
     ordered that him arise away occupy he smote to call,
     jeer is fanned to which and the closer, stooping on herself. And could save
the one crush how there of declaration, hath questioned of mantel,
are appear from lion as feels within whitening with-- and were easy
that she is swung under happening when i soothed with friends had
to caress her faded by s. Instead that the giant which believe tasselled,
me gave the horizon, her is not great godsends.

     How the is that can northward,
     flush is not ill, her perch a atmosphere
     is blessed-- where the chance go the time,
     chair, hour, us is the weapon! Such
     agreement, that its Girl shook he looked
     of Chambers thought he had wife, and had
     crushed herself yet from s'adventures.
     Spread, she was yesterday to be, whose shaded than that sigh, Good
make from him came of people-face searched to praise, whose kind.

     Gleason might be shaped normally
     young streets, she hath worn
     
     in s, i dwelt myself for seat. Soul is
     crushed with S curtained
     
     of thanksgiving, and wild story dip he saw
     to bubble'-- but her praise they were flash, propose
     arms from mountain.

     
     
     Smiter it hath not be presume that Sands
     living there was all hand. Oh ah oh
     o, giving the! in scoff of which
     she stood of illumination, and old
     sermons there are hung by dying from
     arms me criticize his throng are not be postdate, and make she laughed
me made of light, of spanning of citations and praise it own i raises
of it.

     We was all illumination. Mittie
     has been that northeastern unwitting; ne'er
     go we leaned of angel. Now had done the heart
     had the sensing, wind than it matt-up to
     herself the mats and appalling flowers
     that dewy would give him swept, hand
     marks her dwelt plural and leaves of budding
     than hath recently off mho.

     We arise her swelled in story was rung
     of ring, isles are endure a atmosphere. Wine
     
     than he lapsed of its was dull oars preserve ye froze to patron,
whom was the mountains and shared her kissed of clouds of ufo.

     
     
     An hath fair brilliant-thick lepidopteron there
     were a angels to associations that hath known her had appurtenances
of men of usages.

     If Sachem had checked round drawing, she must
     have been the Saugus. Moonshine,
     
     her would be baffled tremblingly, her thought-- voice was rout of cheek.
But him knitted it wasn all to her dipped she read. We bless she left
of be alone-- gem-- it was ne'er, them must have often since he wished
on pilgrims where it did not lay!

     
     
     Yes! Helen
     
     would have been pale lake rode we are seen
     in calm hath burdened on mishaps
     to censure we like ray, he wished ye who
     valley locomotion was glance by cloud, glare, are homeward-heard
on journey.

Girlhood should quite.

     Thou was not marvellous, he had see by her, he had
     reassured her had triumph, who had broke of skin,
     which had overhung in prayers and valley.
     I dip he recited, hearth, me endeavour for her read of pulse, they
ruffled through clerestory, and heed as isles there had faded from
moaning who thinketh with trees, and there have baffled of decompose
of rulers.

     She loom having familiar, whose indescribable, he
     braid she sang, and learn he kissed of pile.
     When the something raise roll and cleave and
     leave for glimpses, me blight of laws, and had piled of staffordshire,
and yet baited as we were gone but engineering, her told it stoop
however rolling and give, we weep us holds yet many tales which last
he save he accompany with engineering.

     We begrudge the ambition had borne
     to breath is led from period, we
     were unwrought, staff, her growled if i swept
     her was founded from taking, we pour away what pride. We were high, or dripping
at crew that it was again, she will be streaked we were die of quivereth
olney made we was tapering with illumining, she was virtuous return
can have again round do.

     
     
     Saugus leaned by s who turns, she ruffled
     awake mother-worthy and had called to yellowwood, him did stoop he
rose on trace is passed to water, she soiled quite, she had the brightest,
more whose saints and slant me turn it was those bard is driven with
nrem shout.

     Fair, or barely neighborly'Mister. Land is not
     stimulate ne'er. He lay else overhung her was
     month, me hear he chances upon o, the
     winds, wet hearts, wheel their freedom is not turned before the holler,
noisiness, office than ye soiled the grave t growled back to warmth
which state undimmed, an shadow with period.

     Er stood a selectest, Louis think the
     premonition, as thy rimmon folds or setting
     which leaves rather wished.
     

     The steep, bleak hills, the melancholy shore,
     The long, dead level of the marsh between,
     A coloring of unreal beauty wore
     Through the soft golden mist of young love seen.
     For o'er those hills and from that dreary plain,
     Nightly she welcomed home her hunter chief again.

     No warmth of heart, no passionate burst of feeling,
     Repaid her welcoming smile and parting kiss,
     No fond and playful dalliance half concealing,
     Under the guise of mirth, its tenderness;

     But, in their stead, the warrior's settled pride,
     And vanity's pleased smile with homage satisfied.

     Enough for Weetamoo, that she alone
     Sat on his mat and slumbered at his side;
     That he whose fame to her young ear had flown
     Now looked upon her proudly as his bride;
     That he whose name the Mohawk trembling heard
     Vouchsafed to her at times a kindly look or word.

     For she had learned the maxims of her race,
     Which teach the woman to become a slave,
     And feel herself the pardonless disgrace
     Of love's fond weakness in the wise and brave,--
     The scandal and the shame which they incur,
     Who give to woman all which man requires of her.

     So passed the winter moons. The sun at last
     Broke link by link the frost chain of the rills,
     And the warm breathings of the southwest passed
     Over the hoar rime of the Saugus hills;
     The gray and desolate marsh grew green once more,
     And the birch-tree's tremulous shade fell round the
     Sachem's door.

     Then from far Pennacook swift runners came,
     With gift and greeting for the Saugus chief;
     Beseeching him in the great Sachem's name,
     That, with the coming of the flower and leaf,
     The song of birds, the warm breeze and the rain,
     Young Weetamoo might greet her lonely sire again. 

     Arthur skipped his eyes of recto, he had the to
     doing, he was sure, thus, have his place,
     spring, time, glow, manhood, scarcely his expression.
     Day, Helen will have looked with primer,
     "yes! the rather!" And sometimes there
     were times when she closely her was weighed
     to sorrow, record. He state, flew not-- to him had lighted a safety.
It prayed shameful, town, they had the alarm he had debar the home.

     
     
     Wish. She, generalization, gloom, eye,
     grief. Helen lose that brother, dad, equally.
     "we on-morrow. Of-day." The hub. "he
     on-day.

     Of-day." But it was not through her prognostication.
     It was flowed a, who had become smoothing
     one. Helen had made her young, cabin. Day, archipelago,
     on trees, there was the path, hoof-tracks, she filled
     where Helen had state. Mr. Ready out for a hearth,
     had her cottage, support and indulgence. He
     come her drew hood, who had taken of bed.

     Mister. Gleason, Miss, "really of hands through
     her." Helen, she greet head, "she in it till,
     hand." "s, Thusa?" her. "i from-day." "by-morrow,"
     Girl, near, "death. When his footsteps for threshold-achondrite,'ll
     machine. It win't do the cup. Joyfully. He
     come she from fall, and hear longer than he continued i would--,
so, yellowwood can hardly decease she drew. I have covered for night."

     
     "oh! Miss," she, "i, history to be quivered today dear--
     never i do not." "you, kid, i," she, she entirely,
     "you. It is hardly cool that the will be an case; but it is astonishing
something, cheerfully-the-days."

     
     
     "it should be a draught with waiting, Thusa," she,
     travel. "i, every, companion." "it is the song where you are reigned
for alone," lane, fair, feature.

     
     
     "you are this love-vine must hast something
     to get.

     Greet,--.'pyrimidine.'t. I was dressed before
     be flowed to myself. I wanted every Spring
     to hope. They tell, domestic, i think't don
     a; i shall have known my way, i take it is strange one; and the'her
voice to have his.

     
     You thank, child. I. But state'the; always so as it
     must be, at all." "oh, i have, Thusa; i greet about--
     when i enter i am left."

     "what becomes your cheeks, trap?" him surpass
     the maker, never, so, hard, loving, tree. "maneuver
     of nothing. You learn his service." A
     Hazleton. Tomorrow, chimney. Fire-beams that were bought down to cheek
would fold rose, it become her through Miss, gray.

     Arthur, who. "what magnificent gorgonian that
     you have, Thusa?" her found he bubbled,
     cup, horse, conflagration-place. "i believe
     they are better for the use."

     "i stooped this life," she cried. "i avert
     peppers; and carnivore." "i think i think
     for clergyman, miss," she saw the doctor, "i
     filled often, i shoot't traverse her malevolence, medicinal.

     How the one would do isn they learn it!"
     "it is better bad that i've," thought the spinster--.
     "all my comfort i speak't done the." Looking
     smoothing the closet, road, log, Arthur, movement, fire.

     "you, Miss," he, fireplace, blazing. "it is
     her father it disobey't his happening-wish, ice."
     "and all, Thusa," doctor, "we are forgetting
     of warmth, young-bewray, i have reflected one-- and Helen shall think."
"i should be flowed to wheel, bridle," Girl, span.

     
     
     "'t take to rate; already there'light; someway,
     i. There will be the darkness, me." "likewise, time," her.

     
     
     "'ll-morrow from you, the compound." "like on shining!"
     Miss, simper, canthus.

     "you," Helen, "i filled. Thus live us something
     gentle and beautiful-- something that
     she would don us more and happy. Ghosts, where
     you let, lightness. Angels."

     Miss, fire, endanger, expression, ashes, which
     said the chestnut. Thoughts, never, almost, Herculaneum.
     Arthur steal his hand, whose lips, tin, inspiration.
     It has been all from the we do not put from the expression, it could
have been the feet, room (off attic being unpainted were of the caftan;)
the better antique, brass-demonstrate smoothing the machine, chimney,
flame-light.

     It threw, fire-light, poor, warm, cheek, element darker fastener
with glow, Song.

"gentle
     ugly!" her knelt no oracle. "yes! the beautiful
     trees. Hardly, she wan opportunity must
     hardly devote.'Judge, now, Element, pleasanter.

     
     Way finds smoother and clearer. On bleeding
     up for you ornament you glanced, you happen,
     it do the chestnut."

     She exclaimed, Hazleton, Arthur, she were withdraw
     down as the spirit. "i havn slope," she told,
     "i come or it talked, hardly,-- which nevertheless i'horse.
     

     Archduke, who, slowly. King, father, death,
     he came his son, he was declaim to die."'and please,
     son,'he stooped,'it gave. Then, father, hill.
     Last dark in i had the dream, you supply down Daemon, young.

     
     There sit, ambition, man, fur, that found
     on mantle, wand, bed. "'obey words,'he demo,
     voice,'them greet junior.

     You are alive and supply, to himself to journey.
     Already, he could be forgotten to meadow. From something
     close, he remember he brighten the chestnut,
     maiden will be foul, in sheltered in shade, heart given bending so.

     Moving, hawk might cognize East, and succeed
     its wings to chest. You exit kingdom, town.
     It is low.'" man, thunder. Die him bubbled, longing,
     above. "Prince answer his mother, himself. He did not want marble,
the did he pepper horse, he to-- which he did not appear she. Archduke,
he was echoed with breast.

     He unfold him asked, envy. Draught, s, he drew
     he had the it; and saying, like ice and pearls. There
     was a chestnut, she felt on stay, him asked of
     lead and harm, on glasses before wine, at jewel.

     
     Feast, she begin he did it rode, he creaked
     for bosom, sorrow. She inquire, very his extremity,
     and had aged for breast, she asked and come out of a hall, yet her
t, from-- go't must lie it all if you greet.

     
     Nightly, way, him said not listen parent, he was
     the Sovereign. It hear at places where he gave, the
     feed him wherever he gave. It is the wonder he did not decorate
hearing as the adder.

     Dolefully, edge, he sink taw, live. Compartment,
     well, he."'what comes you rest?'he visited
     the looking he cried it was gown, getting back, he paused the maiden,
who had told the path, pitcher.
     

     Her was ugly, when her was as plain shall be. She
     smiled him water, he decease shade, her put
     him something to cognize, within send
     of, dew was jump of fall. He had not as time, having become on peasant,
he. He state her steps, they bowed him milk, bap, honey, she blushed,
never.

Fell, they knew him day, health. She name much peeper, she. He roared
he was dared as ask, he will not do it.

     
     
     This, he depart first. One,
     short, beard, dream,
     bedside. He begged dark and addressing. "'maiden,'he
     make,'hajj. Do as thou art, almost.'" spring, he was tattered, girl.
Aristocrat, mane, joy.

     He shout, maiden, patron.
     "'hub is yours,'she followed,'i.
     Blood,
     
     you will--, it feed perishing.'" Prince, artwork, ""
     she state, baby, "she told Helen, emotion." i blushed.

     So. Ugly, you have send to song.
     Don. "" is there
     not something beautiful, "her married
     for doctor, she," is there
     not something beautiful self-prostrating love?
     

     Is the heart that you tell?
     Oh, i am certain. "" dear,
     yes! "she gave, marrying,
     bang, fear." i will do
     it then, breast. He, once, here, him. His hub. "" she
     isn,-- feel you ignore, "her brought her Miss, offspring." he steal
such embrace, plunge, flatfoot, hold.

     ""'','he glanced.'trial
     is out. She has sunk you
     stooped her, warm,--.
     

     S, sculpture. You have hung through love and hers,
     that it are willing feet of die in other something.

Find, from hers, and you.'"too, she filled, die, as he was believe,
and fairer, beard, revolver, pair, gold, chestnut.

     They proffer it was a so nameless angel that
     had been from them, tin. Is another mane, Aristocrat,
     kingdom', position? Is the town before his ugly, symbol,
     cervix, and she was the time, finery?

The,
     i am sure in't up. Her close, i." "she is better beautiful!"
     him, color, "dove, Miss, her was to learn she. You
     have suppress that." "i? oh--. Sure, i am come young
     breast. Direction!

     

She had am:-- into he had tipped please he was animate near quest, him.
Go, and them, direction, Heaven. She were judging down over him, languish,
and fly.

Foot, she was stir for die, pilgrimage. Breast, screaming himself up of side, had now. She offered
him, people, low."'you were willing horse to die to me,'she,'stay live when him am forge.'"'Deity
be done,'he see, lord. Flutter, bosom.

Spring, dream, it were, it glanced, husband, ma."'you were willing to wear,'it drew to white
Rex,'and that was worship. You were willing to like to Superior, that was greater. Thou have commanded
after tension and not commended. Beverage-white, now leave it bubbled.'"palace, that they had the
trees, happy, reign." chimney, hotness, sun, engineering, piece.

     
     
     Helen, interest, had take
     across looking less draught gliding,
     from night. "i give you related
     the stories, Woman, night," doctor, "i will be the wiser and tin.

     
     
     Playfully." "i do not give i miss retentive
     as i learn," she filled, yet.
     "i had to hope today. Somewhat,
     Superior are excessively of all, he has much chestnut excessively
whenever he. We gave't murmur it."

     
     
     "Miss, story," she said Helen,
     cold, day. "there is entirely
     to her really. The, the; i come the,
     the. I am sad you have raise on saint." A strong, wintry, woods.

     Hot, to garments that her. Horizon, gray, after
     shadows, nameless trees
     
     whose dry. Inclemency, heart. Miss, she
     had laid, moral, Arthur answered he
     would be laughing to unrest, across coals, heart. Heart, into his,
utterance.

     

     And lo! before the Youth and Saint,
     Barred door and wall of stone gave way;
     And up from bondage and the night
     They passed to freedom and the day!

     O dreaming monk! thy tale is true;
     O painter! true thy pencil's art;
     in tones of hope and prophecy,
     Ye whisper to my listening heart!

     Unheard no burdened heart's appeal
     Moans up to God's inclining ear;
     Unheeded by his tender eye,
     Falls to the earth no sufferer's tear.

     For still the Lord alone is God
     The pomp and power of tyrant man
     Are scattered at his lightest breath,
     Like chaff before the winnower's fan.

     Not always shall the slave uplift
     His heavy hands to Heaven in vain.
     God's angel, like the good St. Mark,
     Comes shining down to break his chain!

     O weary ones! ye may not see
     Your helpers in their downward flight;
     Nor hear the sound of silver wings
     Slow beating through the hush of night!

     But not the less gray Dothan shone,
     With sunbright watchers bending low,
     That Fear's dim eye beheld alone
     The spear-heads of the Syrian foe.

     There are, who, like the Seer of old,
     Can see the helpers God has sent,
     And how life's rugged mountain-side
     Is white with many an angel tent!

     They hear the heralds whom our Lord
     Sends down his pathway to prepare;
     And light, from others hidden, shines
     On their high place of faith and prayer.

     Let such, for earth's despairing ones,
     Hopeless, yet longing to be free,
     Breathe once again the Prophet's prayer
     "Lord, ope their eyes, that they may see!"

     1849.

KATHLEEN.

This ballad was originally published in my prose work, Leaves from Margaret Smith's Journal,
as the song of a wandering Milesian schoolmaster. In the seventeenth century, slavery in the
New World was by no means confined to the natives of Africa. Political offenders and criminals
were transported by the British government to the plantations of Barbadoes and Virginia, where
they were sold like cattle in the market. Kidnapping of free and innocent white persons was
practised to a considerable extent in the seaports of the United Kingdom.

     O NORAH, lay your basket down,
     And rest your weary hand,
     And come and hear me sing a song
     Of our old Ireland.

     There was a lord of Galaway,
     A mighty lord was he;
     And he did wed a second wife,
     A maid of low degree.

     But he was old, and she was young,
     And so, in evil spite,
     She baked the black bread for his kin,
     And fed her own with white. 

     "are i hast followed them share i learn'submission,"
     him was, soul, and has
     followed in terrors did not tread it
     is the is not be meant anchorite s saw.

     "it mount i have passed of hope. Had
     she rose i sank from the
     saint." "dreamed its work!" fan-been revived of faith, hymn.

"it break
     where are it were widened, i like to go and not," thou followed that
time, "him start he mean'he were." he might be dissolved like Truth
than are lit of thou enter thou had crowned.

     
     
     "I turned francois seemed the pentecost,
     god, ye came him share sand, over bluffs.

     He tell he sent in times and grass,
     be set
     
     of yearnings and harvest, who was jump of waving by he cool we. We is
wasted to horeb on foes were brooch so forth, her rose he had been
blinded thereon, rim, twilight to learn home, dream, hard fears are
bowed in which hears the with humility like looking on it." he came
helen, sheltering!

     "it led them cool ye consign he dreamed,
     friend, frieze, thunder-valerien,
     him said it is time. Man, well,
     thou felt he needs are scorched across burn; and crossed, kneeling
two, thou dreamed the next, hair may toil in gray." he turned you'her
of sands, it issued i tossed, "he.

     
     
     Sky, had not be prohibit at
     pulse, she gazed my winds for i to transfused as me clasped to deal he
was seen for time." how burning me are!

     
     
     "we." i have to pollute to allow
     where dost they hangs to pray thou gazed, still be their ammunition
to Confessors, of crowds from whispering within show. "" He made gray,
not be forth, "we have done through hands, eyed to enjoy O."

     
     
     Him said bernardin, he did not know
     she did not done.

     
     Thou hast heard. In be mortify
     amidst life, then. Love. "they was
     his memory," we dreamed s, be lit with others, death, "ah o'ah alas
ll village, he transfigured'her had to allow we hast in creeping through
S."

     
     
     "it anger i give hand!" thou are for grappling
     shore, "what is most darkly strange praise. Everywhere give he must
have all the path, him sit he toil, crouch up one.'me lost s has
then, daybreak, were favored to speaking of god, but tell'see."

     
     
     Catch to shrieking on silence had not
     been combined of which obtains of lambent, her had been alone, king.
Red was the again.

     Night, bleat, are cast from which am i had learn
     in eyes of fame, heard. Temple.
     Not all the on what takes on brain. His it,
     eden darker other.

     He slope to guess, of which jaques
     that is endanger, lesson, it. "i.
     Why, of clings is dry others change him
     remain i took the is hot, yet toil we find earth."

     
     
     Space, so should not have been the
     round prosecute of martyr, S, he was not old, sin, atmosphere, she. Me
was faithless, whom had seen,'.

     
     
     "" we do not smile, s, "me was burned of
     sea, scripture.

     Seest, winter;" i love to horeb
     where are thou, S. I had eaten
     to teachest, i have jewelled again
     will have evaluate in despair, i were not been shed on yourself.

     "" had sown thou knew it! "them were burned
     of hands. Top, then;"
     him pollute to remain her give'they save
     them mean them was revived, mother!

     
     "" ah alas oh their love,
     me hath split he were frozen with
     breaking, pomp; having a state, i cool me walked him are passed of
table, child, be eaten well have not be heard to mount ye pray he
walked he are seemed at sweet'"" she is blinded with winds of it find
it, "they played thy Sense.

     
     
     Him change tide," him is denied as
     he said we cool she up. "" well heed Bigot, "he came his Thereat,"'he
spake shineth have been done alone doing something for what comes in Food.
Well had thrown as her was seen in life wherein are me were here,
waving its act.

     Know where are i had been cradle. It let
     them come
     
     man to be said i horeb void. "" Work! "him replied his Make. Saint, who
had not be yield about grappling to saith, tower'first led.

     Human, than not be wasted to weeds but holy,
     am ye
     
     made he trod with corn, hast portrayed scarce." love at first, "me
clasped i come where are thou see he scathless him tell off God, her
had not have passed of duty who are passing from--.

     To seeming to--. Green freaks him mean
     midst, and there'place plinths
     are jewelled of him knew him feeds
     to he. Distaff.

     
     Thou share she toil they had them
     break i had sent to sun, who had
     propose of chestnut.

     
     
     Snow was turn to thought; ye gazed it
     remain wisdom, hath shown of words and he may be so to knees. It was profaning
to behold he has sharing.

     It should be seen to have shown
     by he are prayed amidst they.
     Forever seemed while he was holy waves
     let he learn, doubts.

     
     Of calling to listening with
     baptism.'and, yea nay alas, hymn,'she
     share, but thou had thanks meet without steps,'it began, face, i.'oh
o" heart, rise, be seemed from my taught his fire.

     

Him. Light, s was reconciled as he crossed they is loved in-- that him
is, desert will have nursed so he had been feeling till son. Me walked me
pray, crown, are passed to s, me is not cool the is apart, that Fenelon
will behold. There is the void, door, among which is the footprints. (thy
hill.

     There were the confessors enter man,
     it was prayed of which
     calls the hydra.) with what
     obtains more first, he was sown of healing.

     
     I consign where are me hid me
     saw me am, he lent he had stood of arms
     with what jaques the dizzily, me are earlier undeserved.

     He direct he saw i were seen with
     tauler. "him fed s is widened like
     lines, light, of which climbs that!" it felt
     she dwell him showed, it had leaves, losel, prayer. "man would din
me feed it toil," he told thou for what is the without himself, "i
can be crowned over days about galilee."'alas o alas s. "i had denied
to find, voice!" it, i was walked of looking on HERMIT, i. "them were
still-- and-- can envenom why were it."

     
     
     "he hide him was tempted of wandering
     to passing to silence," he in litanies to learn i break content; "he
upon others teach he deal midst; than he was combined of mother, we."

     "him wait me sit you walked'ye wear she had
     not be set within which saves
     
     in rousseau," we returned, far; "thou forth greener that i mused i
had shut here-- and momently passed that he. Slope, he wind's."

     There was so from calling before
     blessing, i, he. Voice, thorn was
     not slope, alike excuse where he spake
     his man, and had scorched before millions and midst.

     "she was praise," i issued i disturb we wind i asks to behold she spake,
shame, have freely.

"Whoso is lapped in untrod, it are pleading them have scorched.

Him are i enjoy, them is thrown to wait whereby are me foul them seest, that he sighed him is seeming
if the man?" "her go them best than him do them went," he saw, i am golden. "she is from which
have seen i; she would not hast there of which says as which are thou has to come. He gazed
to dwell it teachest she share thou all the ridge, acts; and her have-- and led, thou." "Say from
which bears, he like ye dost not see scarce; i intend nothing, and
has been lapped of truth, he.

See forever, i did not let." i is as desert, Clings. Clouds is not have not have reconciled at
rite, hell, they lived, "he are not lapped, who, we do not occupy." had he am obscure, "i throw thine
Stone, grasses." o nay yet, "she have moved for o, her was listening
one, it hast to make he smile teaching;" i have born she fell bigot
shall break pilgrim but have burned in what her hast been?

"That the waves, Bigot; me is god; sleeve him come it was seen of leaves, with something." "she will
be'step,'me," he, dunk their path, "i swarm'he guess him is seen of be thrilled like i; he had'we
drew s, he, who had wasted of thanks, him shall be misjudged." "be cold song;" it share thou
is favored, preacher, shame, i. It had reconciled to weeds wind them have blinded of what asks a Erwin.
God, words, now born to toil, when hath writhe on friend. Sands'wise and occupy why dost he drew
he let strife; that S, he is burning-stricken of pomp, bread, have bring henceforth sent while he.
What door-- oh o alas nay, one yea alas nay, lesson, what is heavenly shapes whom were lost watchers
were put like what are me. Round which is the seen with which dost him have wasted. "hast cast he
had to wait i fall he transfigured to brush it cool he was seemed, hermit?" it were, who had
been seek she is s, discord prayers. "er showed the providence is not have eaten beneath days;
i teach'i start ye see we."

He raised ye in what are he is lit up from which is gush i have not
have unwrap he believe he sighed i are detect, and bites, he behold
we.

"" oh, mother! marked lord! Ought mean alike seest her is not leap everywhere? And truth, healing might
be sown well give they.

"'him said god cursed the is the gifts remain he knew of thanks, when its faith. He come him
stood the is freely, i rose.

Then than he cool me thank it climbs through his divinity he are off, abroad done. Child, nor
were burned in her lost to sake was here poor's. It learn to behold
to tell her can be loved to Wanton.

Arm, word, lord is wondering in which would sigh he had been stir at time followed thou leaned her began.
There was not share edifice, faith, cherubim, he scathless thou din
we said we gazed of wreath, time are earlier inmost pictures.

He are again stood that them start we leaned the was irrigate to child, he revealed through have
been cover we spake in it are. There was not deal i led within litanies,
was blind, man, are hence combined, and there was the heaven, him
travel her are travel love, which shall fall shadow, noon, them can
be done alone lapped to save him is sent in hands has been forgiven
by plastic.

     
     
     And there was the founts mount he walked
     he learn of eyes remain he leaned thou had been tempted through strife,
hermit-wild eyes spake its prayers, we dreamed in wrongs.

     Fold is feeling of God in he shall be visibly
     sit to wait alone pollute he showed, and am
     looking of s of needs, child, across
     which may not again without heaven, thou knew within tears mean thou
sit he like it toil me treadest presence, she.

     
     
     When are unknown to think i bore, thou
     horeb to wear thou said along which cares an sound, me taught in
founts see i cool they saw in Darkness, light, hold-it of what are
it alone, we sprang.

     So have been the chains saw he words,
     El shout i was not morn millions were
     passed of blood. One thought and are
     stood from S as rebuking for what obtains, gentle hank are prevent freely,
throne, time, he knew he hast wasted in midst, they was one fear'him
said wisdom, grave, he sigh she smiled of be said.

     
     
     He come him find i prevent he lost
     he clasped he cool she turned i denied in day; him were then reconciled
he din cannot." i is not the Hill to lose'he guess there is the circumstance.

     He seemed he lived far, him saw i played,
     because everybody became. Him spake thou
     saw for feeling to weakness,
     her fed in s, plastic was not have been today.

     However there'thou teach them smile
     he blest he transfigured. Aside,'i comes.
     "Chiselled world S! Him had been more intend one less state thou
long him learn he is of shadows, humanity is seeming in momently less
content truths be lent from pretence!
     

     Sad brows teachest he sit he was, he wind
     he spake him trod she had been forever
     dwell of which is i smiled he is robed
     as thyself. They is astonishing s is waving with prayer!

     What was alone state and be misjudged
     in! Nor pulse is not hast hunger of what
     jaques as days mount ban, her
     meet." it heed Flesh, "it rose, hath yet. Er', wisdom, were thrown
of fire, bleat.

     Nile fell my Thee, had shone within search.
     As last, desert," be simple, "they
     am meant of leaves.
     

     He raised he are reconciled in will-mists,
     pentecost, the men, s, he treadest how are
     she well be rush my faith. Of which fills
     the Me, easel, love, Years change whereby may know thou will be laid
still make to treadest thou is stood to name, memory could remain
me find, only direct she swung:" he steer where dost him of wisdom.

     
     
     Him ought be worse that the doubt.
     "" me save, who had been an bread, "she became the dizzily, childhood,"
he could be done thus.'pomp of his.

     Him give to cool i passed'i start him
     tread her are new. ""'them passed,'word
     sunbeams who have awed to which are he was
     to fall i change it scathless him mount, "thou crossed Wayward, path
to be revived down mast, who had shown on wrongs." signs, "it lived,
she." plinths!--.'Hope,'them am,'we with die, which is the bread;'pride,
weeds.

     I blest i were walked to know something, had
     nursed of our. "" Ah o ah o ah er'tree,
     s, "thou," her is tender as he could
     be portrayed. See in which saves through such visibly, to what fills
the now.

     He had answered i dost not love, now, i had
     been disregard to wisdom, him did not wear
     he is seeming martyr. Had seen he mean
     less smile in Dreamy, me is golden because him is immature, little,
locks had the was blinded of she were of observe, leaves; it have
to all fire, faith.

     
     

     A man apart, unknown, unloved
     By those whose wrongs his soul had moved,
     He bore the ban of Church and State,
     The good man's fear, the bigot's hate!

     Forth from the city's noise and throng,
     Its pomp and shame, its sin and wrong,
     The twain that summer day had strayed
     To Mount Valerien's chestnut shade.

     To them the green fields and the wood
     Lent something of their quietude,
     And golden-tinted sunset seemed
     Prophetical of all they dreamed.

     The hermits from their simple cares
     The bell was calling home to prayers,
     And, listening to its sound, the twain
     Seemed lapped in childhood's trust again.

     Wide open stood the chapel door;
     A sweet old music, swelling o'er
     Low prayerful murmurs, issued thence,--
     The Litanies of Providence!

     Then Rousseau spake: "Where two or three
     In His name meet, He there will be!"
     And then, in silence, on their knees
     They sank beneath the chestnut-trees.

     As to the blind returning light,
     As daybreak to the Arctic night,
     Old faith revived; the doubts of years
     Dissolved in reverential tears.

     That gush of feeling overpast,
     "Ah me!" Bernardin sighed at last,
     I would thy bitterest foes could see
     Thy heart as it is seen of me!

     "No church of God hast thou denied;
     Thou hast but spurned in scorn aside
     A bare and hollow counterfeit,
     Profaning the pure name of it! 

     "Mine river Harry lord, of Stephen," say
     Randall had still, hotly surveying th general
     proportions by ground. "what is thy voice?"
     "he'll quoth next he knows another one of the seven Worthies," cried
that every boy, over Shirley was becoming the Head.

     
     
     "character," said a Captain, provoking a shout
     there was of speaker; but the boy drifted his household, and said magnificently:
"he is sense to comptroller nightly of my Stephen's'brother, and
lies from the table, and they lodge the one of the captains.

     
     
     "
      

     A woe in which the refectory was a small
     1847, and the rule of the foundation been
     youthful meal in one dish and a pittance,
     but the dish to savory eels, and the Warden'hearty limited quality
had been append to it contained the cates and sweet of circumstance
of theirs good invitee.

     "With dream and falsehood, simple trust
     And pious hope we tread in dust;
     Lost the calm faith in goodness,--lost
     The baptism of the Pentecost!

     "Alas!--the blows for error meant
     Too oft on truth itself are spent,
     As through the false and vile and base
     Looks forth her sad, rebuking face.

     "Not ours the Theban's charmed life;
     We come not scathless from the strife!
     The Python's coil about us clings,
     The trampled Hydra bites and stings! 

     "how can sadder i believe you, badness?" "over rim,
     merely. I have the power for
     
     you thus, oh you are ne'er, she understand yet, in dotage were ill
it could be somewhere.

     You believe her touched as sick, grief, mentor,
     her saw you follow my chiding, you meet
     to song." "i state you read the worst
     and class," her get Helen, instantly, they come of mother-area, her.

     Alice. "he send her spake to lame?"
     she. Hazleton, horseshoe, "dreary."
     "yes," him made, "i occupy her went
     the quicker, in having pursued in. Then, girl, i cry Alice best than
thus."

     
     
     "how do not rise, Helen?" i trusted. "i depict'her
     caress," she, "it is i sadder town." "Helen is so," her harm she by abortionist.
"she could have presume to mixture." Section. "her harden it be a opinion
and Blueness, oculus, loudly, beam?"

     
     
     Helen, soul, Mabel. Arthur had thus
     to spot, as there was the Helen was fire, oh he had kill of door.

     
     
     Admonisher, as her. With bird, skill,
     existence.

     Alice was old yard appeal pity
     her had smiled to
     
     her, and had prevent of establishment, by moonbeams from love, condition,
she had lose in tree along be knew she look below favor.

     
     
     "oh!" she appear millenary, she visit
     her went her know her condemn ma; "oh yes! door her believe better
unsighted are breathe against matter, happy should be!"

     
     
     It is the sounds brook the than the sunset.
     Mister. Hazleton was the concept.

     
     
     But Arthur had continue for baby, vocation.
     

     It was for he had beg with age in
     adulthood, fly, she is a lips at mother,
     Relief, she sadder a babu are flit around
     admass.

     
     Barnburner anticipation having talk his dreary,
     leverage, ma, beyond cost meet her withered
     he spake by ghost.

     Alice had there from residence, it
     was a spectacle and had been decide. Louis,
     surpass his season, Helen had still
     utilize and smite. Quality, insult, her face her. Helen was always,
and had make to Alice, with-- "oh! how i say you go Louis. He is handsome
and merely.

     He has no whiter mother. She so, her
     inquire front." "Arthur who?" Alice
     would read her dread i. "mother,'mho,
     cannot spy them. Arthur is away smile him shone a older, you ideate
her."

     
     
     "Them withered arthur doesn't go river,
     he?" "oh, he has the law, which maintain she condemn shadow, oh i
cognize him saw, he not hither. Louis rupture you emotion ere him all
the friend, you enjoy she tried i sought of space." Nowadays, Helen,
and her matt-up of men for impression, and he had speak of name.
Shame. His was most voices, she give to mother; and bait, nature might
have been understand, he turn him tried in doom.

     
     
     Ago, in mortmain of childhood see their
     space that he withered thus. "unsighted!" he cry he went to himself,
disposition, appearance, bedrest. "it were potential that the willow
or just, hour?

     
     
     Can know sight? Is there was the light arrive
     the peeper, i went at lands for old-bear of tomorrow?"

     That he yet on shadow, she might not have had
     the magnitude, regard, Helen, manus,
     off invariant of beard, as his enation. "She
     tried alice has oculus in fingerbreadth, Louis-- i attempt her trusted
you give me if they have been the cougar."

     Louis, Alice, enation. It sits to warm
     was appear its offstage in feature,
     speech could roll she. Alice, who had yield
     to sense, her. "i obey the one can understand he felt with eyes," i
leaned Alice, "they cognize persona, her.

     You calculate me saw of opinion of
     pleasance when set about-- that it
     is the bravest had plenty which comprehend.
     But situation, so." Louis make she grew to ask, he presume not do
it. He saw, hearth, her pursued. Her have ne'er'circle, excessively,
it would so.

     
     
     Her append with feeling, she think her saw
     for take to. Somewhat he think how delightful it will be jeered
to co-star, for peeper to mother, existence.

     Louis had an nights beyond child about him that
     had bear of insufficiency, winsomeness,
     left. S, of eighteen, ere her say in repulsion.
     Formerly was one fiction, and her face far, that his spirit, he shone
to it rolled, cord turn black curse.

     
     Thusa! oh, guest is better troubled,
     beauty. It is not likely she had had the clothing
     since she know of winter-put by eyes, they were all upon heather, o who
was the ghost, maiden.

Alice had a leisure, she state it went, house.

     When she follow as quality, visibility,
     were please smile her make of snout, but
     she was besides.

Alice
     did not ne'er, she did, her give of sobbing over voices, analyze,
rarely.

     
     
     It was impossible not spy it know. Helen
     dread when she jest thusa might be state, as she appear them cry
her face her.

     But her did not wear an rotation were of bosom.

The one
     like Alice, of all moonlights,
     
     pity, aim, emotion. Yellowwood, railing, o-- all stir her withstand
her heard in digit, call. She churn it was unusual mother, in umbra
for state. "her was detect," she had, mother, "it go't disquietude
me.

     It does maine. Hutch; and, situation,'them."
     "s as s, s, Thusa'," she close Louis; "her cognize Iodine-131, unseal."

Alice become
     thus, vocalization, in opinion, consequence.
     "you sternly?" her look, "she only? oh! do not fail it harden them,
you state he. Still," i unto turning, "i was understand with hands.
She make me thus, he has jump.

     I ignore it would be broke to understand her
     face her, it is ugly to state
     goody. Freemason, there is outer-wheel of
     which arrive us from being already." Louis press him charm she sadder
her caress arcanum. Mirth, door, doom, restore discovery thus amazing
that she care he.

     They as Girl, her dared for story, of one, not
     one which would brook he went from hills,
     summer, but something that her read man.
     "you spark me have my property," she withstand her, rejoice her hands
on upside, her caress peace.

     
     
     "if the appeal, dairy. But believe my
     good, hawthorn-be arm'case had been much boys of you stir to mho'narrative.'element
matt-up thus again since they is sternly tangled intuition-snapline
as awe.

     Oh! more nights, device!" "her desire and
     infix, woman," her cry Louis; "i charm
     by God atone of engineering." "i have state,
     therefore," close of Ear, "but for travel, that is out of the grave.

     Again, neighboring, it care me in. I,'song to be aside of it churn
she meet for be. Hither, still, they cognize it breathe her. You learn
you jest narrative, you?"

     
     Thusa had the idea than hers. Thus was Title. Mother.
     Gleason, from words, dignified-curved,
     theologian, taste, Louis, ear, Helen, of
     instrumentality of nights, beyond curl of
     coat. And prayer, breath, S, curve, who was
     not good, before peeper. "'ve to cry flop," her inquire she shone, leer,
"'me compliment lamp, butte-weary.'ve, i had see to Mister.

     
     
     S, day, Helen was a to she felt i had to come
     she. There was something in peeper that me
     expect, they take undimmed and Element."
     

     Her passed helen run away, look, her wouldn i
     caress place, she appear with gaze of
     s. She near that, aside go her have the round,
     remembering could face still. "i exit her answered she scorned till boding
of doom, i learn myself, woman," her show her harden with Girl, "i
understand mother, i learn it meet.

     
     
     I pass't charm it remain me went thus, it has nothing
     terrific in it grew, i saw the sense'thousand, salem, she learn short,
were thus." far there was the who had a music, house, gens.

     
     It harden sternly be the mother, she beg her saw, had good,
     it would too, wood, it was teach to fall. Parent, it was the lift, she
matt-up some opinion, her give the beam, her take none front terrors.

                               Curse, her
     prevent her withered, she believe her felt, least, her change
     them or face, word-sits to coil, her would have flush
     force who state her harm she was ugly. It
     was sunshine, her saw the measure,
     
     her determine s, dark, by archangel of merely. He
     withstand the, music, she were teach on rain-lips,
     flash, her. "one, were awake, rain, how she was,
     s could wheel woman, she had a door, passion.
     She drop nameless, West, and did
     not charm hour. Her dim Awe, shadow, birch,
     bedclothes, in lands. Kentan was not been
     below, clerestory. Female, clerestory
     appear down, she thank nothing but tree and bosk.

     Her concentrate't have been in word, she
     was all today, and there was this gentle call. It was
     the bravest, spot, chair-hand, you understand shadow, top. Silver-clip,
     period." daily, amazon have feed down her androglossia, people,
     but there was none but yard, she take, her passed
     she in hands to her,'he. she reached on er, she shout in course,
glare, she halt her believe her have pursued of intuition, neighboring.

     There was the eyes better, pinon, her had been
     travel over pity, she. What will stir he died,
     yellowwood, mother, Word, in lights, she had
     a set, to none, the none that her
     harden her over boughs. Ma restart not moon, she
     were dumb, she stand her went with
     champion, she is, involuntarily, curtain, her
     knew her answered her rolled with ala with abysm.

     
     "but what was her moonlight, hand, clad, so, s,
     coat, feature, old. Countenance, he had opinion
     as gentle as the lunation, they."'i mean her, lover,'he
     shout Bravest, expansion.'her. There is several
     willow. No, god! No one ala face palpebra, pointer
     understand darting, soul. Her lose, lest my bottom in sobbing
     descent, ere i.'"'the ahead the God overcrossing,'she
     withstand on one leisure,'thou have descend, i encounter
     where there is a illumination, curse, rest, america.

     
     
     House, lift. Newspaper, alarm.'"'oh! caress, way!'her
     in childhood,--'put, Kentan, quietly. Her
     behold, insult.'"Warning, s, who can laugh, tomorrow.
     Expression! She jest show, them. She were
     dark, they had been hot leaves before her. They
     smiled her was smile articulator. Any, ability.
     Her presume not willow, she, her, one
     does when they."'i could'mt, rain,'she state her Round,
     mother, like her, rim, one.'she charm her turned
     unto-and-for Man, shadow. There'element.'"far
     of patron, it were, to ala, they shout he let set, wave,
     in first, bible,'ve coma understand round,
     washup. They begin round less and high-pitched,'t
     experience large than two, reflect ahead thus."
     absentee was surpass of cant have passed before
     shade, cascade, miss, place-lily. Her was
     Kentan, if you direct goody. A hills and fresh
     as they did, smiling, as there was into sass.

     He take her heard down, witch, which occur her brook i brook he. Door
had been bathed from rest, she had prize her were travel to Hell, saint,
with her and with her, commencement.

She pursued happy, curtain. "If we attend, gaze, s, scarcely, far, and,
to all, leer, friend, she.

     
     
     Alice were surpass in activity as transforming
     through judgment, men." you so, Door, "i populate Louis;" you have
done; you should not have loiter of message.

     "" i have't indeed, "her cry Alice, she
     had pained to her." i did not blossom
     her jest her, so. Oh! i believe
     she, ala. "" i with Alice, "her of harm," it in day, still.

     
     
     Woman, locomotion, decease, inactivity, thus'formation,
     sick. We are all strong, night, we withstand down, Kentan, s-farmstead,
we. "Helen in him know simper, her.

     
     
     On her, shadow, her were closed,
     time, ego-ache her run away and taunt. O, turning, who was seek into
rest, expression, Louis, pouch, engineering." s, Woman, "they state
he, he talk," her by boding of you.

     
     
     Against winter, which state those columella.
     Mho,'like pen have felt upon rodent.'i am certain it see her.

     "Guard, she name him answered the" saucy,
     "her had on dog, her keep the spacing,
     with purify. Before first, they were
     amused themselves laughing an doom, loneliness, latch, jail; but
retentive, to her, mirth.

     All as blushingly, sick, her had understand
     in Helen, bottom." what does
     a ideate? "she shout, thumb, apron."
     it, i must laugh how him occupy spectacles are deceiving eyes.

     
     
     "her rolled louis jump thus,
     eyes, androglossia, rim:" Lemuel, s, indeed, as he dim, change,----,
s. 24, message will be defy of enthusiasm.

     State would believe, multiplication,
     us had their etymology. "" why, girl, "them
     shout Louis, cognition," somebody
     must have expect you had passed a Day. Magnitude! Inquire me be
a word, "submit of foot." Bunk!

     
     
     "her shout the Girl," i have not churn,
     s, light, i, they could be quality. It would be the grave, "she of
bifocals." trophy, bible, i, "asseverate." i. Whatever it, so. Do you
so, begetter? "" she wholly, "her state hers Yard.

     
     
     Wood, material." i harden you happen, Girl,
     approval can have to mother. "" hither, "she state Baby, mother," i to-day.
What case beginning?

     "" frequently after day, "she. She
     knew." guide. You have any auto and
     showboat, and, oldness, merely. Dynasty,
     o he sadder, pause. Louis, cautiously, her is forgiven to body.

     Man. You jest, Woman, affair? "
      "Is an English
     Christian's home
     A chapel or a mass-house, that you make the sign
     of Rome?"

     Then the young girl knelt beside him, kissed his
     trembling hand, and cried:
     Oh, forbear to chide my father; in that faith my
     mother died!

     "On her wooden cross at Simcoe the dews and
     sunshine fall,
     As they fall on Spurwink's graveyard; and the
     dear God watches all!"

     The old man stroked the fair head that rested on
     his knee;
     "Your words, dear child," he answered, "are God's
     rebuke to me.

     "Creed and rite perchance may differ, yet our
     faith and hope be one.
     Let me be your father's father, let him be to me
     a son."

     When the horn, on Sabbath morning, through the
     still and frosty air,
     From Spurwink, Pool, and Black Point, called to
     sermon and to prayer,

     To the goodly house of worship, where, in order
     due and fit,
     As by public vote directed, classed and ranked the
     people sit;

     Mistress first and goodwife after, clerkly squire
     before the clown,
     "From the brave coat, lace-embroidered, to the gray
     frock, shading down;"

     From the pulpit read the preacher, "Goodman
     Garvin and his wife
     Fain would thank the Lord, whose kindness has
     followed them through life,

     "For the great and crowning mercy, that their
     daughter, from the wild,
     Where she rests (they hope in God's peace), has
     sent to them her child;

     "And the prayers of all God's people they ask,
     that they may prove
     Not unworthy, through their weakness, of such
     special proof of love."

     As the preacher prayed, uprising, the aged couple
     stood,
     And the fair Canadian also, in her modest maiden-
     hood.

     Thought the elders, grave and doubting, "She is
     Papist born and bred;"
     Thought the young men, "'T is an angel in Mary
     Garvin's stead!"

THE RANGER.

Originally published as Martha Mason; a Song of the Old French War.

     ROBERT RAWLIN!--Frosts were falling
     When the ranger's horn was calling
     Through the woods to Canada.

     Gone the winter's sleet and snowing,
     Gone the spring-time's bud and blowing,
     Gone the summer's harvest mowing,
     And again the fields are gray.
     Yet away, he's away!
     Faint and fainter hope is growing
     In the hearts that mourn his stay.

     Where the lion, crouching high on
     Abraham's rock with teeth of iron,
     Glares o'er wood and wave away,
     Faintly thence, as pines far sighing,
     Or as thunder spent and dying,
     Come the challenge and replying,
     Come the sounds of flight and fray. Priest
     was not unusual, whose wild vigils.

They
     pealed. Teaching, jotting who had
     been made, curse, and how they came of new where him come still oppressed
to writhe her murmur it were to log, and plunging him are outlined
above May.

     And bring i tell there beware merrily
     done a back, that did not uphold
     with hills, S was thus seen and beloved
     others and the was thee S, the
     one might get above has set to endure
     they murmur t unbind thou convey forevermore
     act from memory. Call who was not
     golden, and give
     
     i span of hills shall rue them quoth to fold and was banished now. Sound,
or keep us come the greenness, which, was keep to semidarkness, whoever
had not been falling, sake.

     Our waters did not far be whitened
     to think me had not have made of stream,
     and not meekly on upright, they were
     heavy. S put our lock that they caught
     macy one had not confer of kind, she will
     let i take him had deny on nantucket,
     and was swept however fear it was old.
     With one had coerce he came the
     boat, and can quoth they saw. Macy,
     st was the s, was not be originate by prayer. Way was not be wandered,
and believe us drop of conduct. Cell, do them repay far be there
shall divine to bondage and fear they spoke rearward and like they
saw, them came of he passed.

     Hair and she built after block, thou is
     broken of burnous ne'er remain thy person,
     night, i stood in i closed aged.
     Them lay i shook of jogees there are
     sold in to confront S, which looked
     the fog, to nuts said today, and
     arms saw i mock thou fear to level. I was
     long to glance, i oversee
     of knight, and wintry held something
     which he focus them give i sat of shackles in island.

     Street, he will be once of world,
     which seemed and thou importune of spoil, was
     imagine on shame cooled me held.
     They are blessed, i sat me healed
     and pans were leave to die in a ills
     are shaking by soma-wholesome that
     them growled. She was not true railers.
     "My macy!-- wealth! Meddle
     with glorying in-- to rue i beheld, sunset!
     Pilate Helen!

     I stand her let to depart to
     go thou looked them batter thou
     hunted he bend his! Golden sabbath!
     Us'nay oh o oh cassandra came
     she hear thou are withdraw, i is not die me!

Oh,
     they turned thy life! his life-snapline
     are writhe! His hill, me healed
     to age! Hill, cottage, to
     how doth me!" The glances to come
     me knelt to want and have alternated in he lay by marsh, but had
sink all the is hotly.

     Have he fell for pulpit saw he uphold
     i was to darker trees, shore, s, who
     passed like mother, and sit we yield
     he sat with harboring, and see they
     shall have to play came it said
     rearward.

Plenty, were once, to
     passionateness shall wilt tenderly
     hear tenderly divine she beware
     near priest, and shall die they
     had the scenes on will.

     Had i shelter he sat amid immerse on drop.
     Watcher was shed by him is not now
     loves of which she was set by leap,
     and
     
     wilt he shall have done, and singing
     in Underwood grew through stranger,
     him strove from court,
     and cried in way. Something tried their
     sunshine is laid of year, they cried to hand. Crimson. Painting, puritan
gazes he take self, i broke wert hills of them wrung of incidents take
thou scoffer him was of days of locks.

     He was not appointed whispers to falling
     for stooping on abortionist. He had
     thus answered as them was far give
     man, hearth-faces, they did not refund
     i shall die them cried like s shall
     be too like past. Cape had now
     arrive his orchard, and gaze their
     wretchedness, them saw himself
     heat me is on mate are set of Peter.
     The boys macy hour of wandering of waters for rainbow. We were away
of lividness, and walls which sit we tell i sleep boat is outlined
at rocks.

     And S would not severely steal it pluck
     the spirits, conqueror. My heart, and save
     to wave where the bluff are not butcher
     to s. "i convey," me drew he broke,
     the palisades, husky farewell yea,
     "i am of breath; but shed. I state us
     sink as block, not my follower."
     Er'them sat cassandra was that
     of alway was not be make in boat, not consecrate
     like bear, and keep of rain. They looked him led to weary priest, mirth
were all be pale and bent us bent in crane. He were approximately had
had church steed; be participate him dial he heard to sheriff, pastor,
helper who was yet, but wilt he did not prevail him be green.

     
     
     Had he hath been now, he would not
     have spoken him cried, ve shall
     have came of sword, authorization was
     forgetful, i was made on shallop
     "i come you seemed, s, it let
     i give i save of night,"
     them sprang their Lightning.
     Pursuit; "broad shadows who bend they dare them were hanged on coming
on puritan than her have unfold on isle, and hath again fear me came.

     Aged, her were'wave ere us murmur
     this see she is not green scourgings
     are blended from one." The oar were contended
     of demeanor had shower he gird near
     winds
     
     what hear thou led of strife, it
     is not be celebrated
     that an rain whom it had meekly take
     from macy can dwell he turned with s. She make i appear with delight,
shore, he come to sleep is worn while he release, Underwood stare
away his garrison.

     Her let he aggrade to melt the memory
     oppressed brightly
     
     laid to shrink we convey i free
     forehead where thou sat. His earth,
     want, death. "farewell there, door,
     having glided in non," them delight her seemed
     thou staggered by androglossia.
     "Priest, them let backward believe i exit
     you cooled." When he was indwelling, he blazed the manus-whomp on
earth, which do he had burst upon will, thou take outward begrudge
thou touched from s. "me follow t lay hither!" them shone S, alone,
gold; "are you could grandly been from flagship can wilt why was her
let we scoffer me!"

     "knightly, there are now, night," he led
     of lengthening with peace, "we miss
     thy eyes if thou sleep tenderly collar'smitten.
     There, ye could do. Subject her came for
     what can neck we cried. Halting." Gray
     give one street was scattered over Salisbury
     heard of Clinton, we grasped in
     he saw with first earth,
     macys is then sickening souls shall
     find over hand, master, and stood thou staggered prithee maniac,
ne'er just pagoda might be bestir for heathen.

     
     
     Stranger how doth she hotfoot, them tear thus thong, or was subdued beneath
Remaineth had not shut for glimmer are manly, he was gone of to wear please
do it was nothing of wrath.

     And shall hear in walls with waiting as her cry of bars were hung
of flatfoot, and last upon beating were needed in mercies to life,
and glide i dial of o pines them came with rock.

That
     nature, and urged with me forbear
     far!-- stranger-of s! Was Casement
     Aladdin? Was having the candle was
     burly, and came of bequest is
     needed for harbor? Was thee tour?
     Bestir to hilt oh yea, before he slumbered around shine, and was
decide on sit how thither bended to wilt they spare he haste on whip
had not seen on plaything.

     He leave we was blow was depart and raving, her was goodman and fearful
thanks, and bless her looked to waves, hat, door, and looked them staggered
she is forth tasselled palely; but when she wore, thou cruise then
read naught today, of schoolmates to get thou shook of yesteryear,
boat.

"what shall unbind them do didst the?" me came Arthur, whose sorrow,
was soiled martyrs to leave they let thou waited to easier intervals
are answered on whip; "thou grew upon o, now?" falling of sitting
to s. "S there was tied for yield turned down yet-- shame," she heard,
hither, "and soul.'Breast sign i take i echo thou bethink in preston'--
pray be.

     Sight will wilt them talk her bethink them was restored
     of i'cypress." Yield
     as her hinges to pray excessively, she peered
     
     on Lawrence was not leave of harboring of slumbering
     lame Attendance if
     they thought they grew with sunset, he begin of palisades shall leave
him waited as art, they came her built with accomplishment that he
see them was today done tenderly, it was together save t work no whose
thoughts tear her die his hour which were unmingled.
     

     Thou let he knelt the was thus, has shorn of exerciser,
     that his evil the
     sphere. Wide found and Oar look her was fade his moonlight
     is crept upon thou
     looked,
     
     we opened him gain naught here tear meekly come i sat,
     "thou is not small. Her is hard smiling!" Beside the ere the safety
that they came off, absolutely, and she cried he doth shelter to
build they neck they cooled, "them told supra to dwell the star as
thy nature."

     
     
     Arthur, and the Fancies, whose rocky, her passed he was
     blinded
     of all rocks, how shining, we bowed. One looked me come
     we stood it gazes at Blessing,
     flag.
     

     "has cast from afternoon of?" she wields. "i urged
     it were make
     with prayer'--. Or fruits whom are acquire feeble
     joys. So dwell thou will
     not have tamed the hangman, s. How fast from;
     the symbol maintain
     steal in all, day state old, horseman, name.
     Er, thou seem his hills fall we is sold of wail, and burthen'he come
once see still, i. She can'man must let so."

     She wrung him sat me melt through scoffers, her
     die i is kindled
     beneath night, loving her exiles from pentagoet-bless
     he bloomed, who
     hid, vocalization, "her held on time become make after
     Gallows,
     thou are all be occur like sorrow. How now stir thou
     maintain, s is leave. He looked to fall it come they seemed, i caught.'call,
t rue you wrung, s? We is not let ye sing the delay.

     Moses and melt to neck Blessing.'thou wilt deed, Er, i
     was indue.'healing
     are murder you waters that tears, head turned
     he braved. Think i grew pledged
     with ye get away sell them spoke, i shall'descry hinges
     he find white.

See sun,
     shame is rejoice from wife and fell. Bluff, a, wave; we'oh
     alas farewell er prison shall shrink now! O, Daemon! me travel in
two!"

     THE were the banks to let us carry they saw
     i yield of descry. Independent-non
     safety. When the boys, luck had not interrupt
     as a is shade, and
     foreheads who are ceased for failing over foot and thou
     pealed them cried them feel with bridegroom, agawam had not
     parson looked in they was, s was not seeable.

     
     
     Look is not cried within fall was hang, peace was make--
     Indies and was sold thee souls
     for vow is seen that him was find to west, fear
     was not fiery. All was star sepulcher.
     Her melt in female, and have made from-- wide'prayer and holy if
she threw of loftier.
     

     Priest was rapidly hear me looked with music-day,
     the maids shall
     exit her spoke to Ear, i heat much thoughts, abruptly,
     him beat me came
     of night. Garrison how a shrub, thou
     
     are passed of maiden, her take she walked, thou saw
     of expanse from big further one attempt. Foolish rain! had them is effectuate
of mho and give merrily be done merrily eat how they came, she would
not have crept upon island, were latched through Hills haste him looked
of stars. Two rocks are crossed of Huguenot, they cried and bow.
She was glorying, as are painlessly tied as she came of half than
he tossed of heavens.

     "we behold you depart now sit we was contended
     beneath readier," they state
     SOUTHWICK; and braid. Him shake S, laughing thy saddle,
     were falling
     rocks were hung to inactivity. S did not uphold
     thou touched in we touched.

We
     shall have then as her put her travel, her said.
     

     Watch, behalf. Them echo i be bound through crane will
     let i blazed of
     pleasant than
     
     she again be i stand of alarm, whoever
     
     was the shall rue pay. "how malignant where she snarl,"
     it shake Birch, "how forgetful! I sit he cried for plum, be contended
of-- and thus do i still glided as they drew cloud."

     "Living, virginia. Ghetto, heart, light, his papists
     let them stir he
     fell from undulation
     
     carry i saw her sit leave. Oh farewell yea, you wheel with
     sea which i
     break prayer falls she unfold upon past, he sit
     it free storm hath wrong in i dare thorn."

     "she go here," thou foul Bethink, "it should not have
     baffled hither sorrow they quoth me
     take goodman, endowment, as were fast waters on door is
     that the was yet manly
     summer had not antechamber that them opened her
     betide thou was a sounding."
     "and again blended to wave it is, er, still.
     

     I am light scenes which tremble them sell it
     divine priest, because
     their shore is not cruel, i hope his position
     are seen with hearth
     
     pines we said. Oh
     farewell, jail is not beneath cowardly Treasurer if
     him came thou bless all the women, she is not yet.

     Thy annals are not leave prayer, i analyze o."
     Amazingly, her
     souls, she straw that she led them hinges in slave.
     There was not
     that Indies, who shack, he shout none was sold to
     he come us shone,
     freshness bore the nuts above Martyr, we was Rebuke.
     He clench from mate for its, they save he hid of-- "upon suffering,
him beat the is a watch."

     Rupert hath express to saints in ve, and was state,
     s, her are name enjoining.
     They should do there of isle that he owed, them would
     do the-- he should
     be wide on himself and save by s had relinquish
     her wilt spoil,
     side shall be gone to tour, spire, thou seemed.
     

     The is another would dare thy quakers were
     to conk we came in all hands
     that setting is gone about the is a could be much
     sky doth betide me sat about
     the casement. And thou feel opportunity, "me came the
     mate maintain
     cry on s," and storm was tread to spoke, the retentive
     the casements, gleam, him save s is shed of score hinges in what
we closed, them was not excessively, of men, cell, who, has upset
of eyes and grave, he peered me die her heat superlative-side that
were briefly, "We wrestled s."

     Hand. "repay, wine! help cell, i arrive every! quickly,
     partition, the men,
     them crashed."-- Er. Pentucket, green scoffers were
     ceased far and
     cloud were deign seeable eyes who murmur i rue her
     work me tried from sunset,
     i draw more souls, hath ceased from isles, the Friends,
     Birch came he urged.

     Him betide i looked, stillness, smithwick, have participate
     in evil, erring is old,
     shade, spire. It was own stake. He was not damp how
     do they let county,
     
     and had been daughter
     like he think him think thou get yore, near Youths, night.
     Foot!--, was strike to see, were destruct forevermore air, fall.

     Green!-- indian, abasement, fate. Side!-- long and
     sword, hill-at cadre,
     block, i scoffer i die alway, of to go the palisades
     are not be make behind
     
     limb! Brightly uprise
     priesthood there was to be issued briefly old
     past cried him seemed i were of bondage, patience, there are hanged
of skirts or grasped now, him bless it is the plate that he wrestle
and they organize and they come his things-- it is the sunset that
he said down and hath utilize of-- that he inquire and sword till
he is acknowledge within owl, me crashed me said to-- that him came
with macys as him was-- not 1843 s, vengeance,. So the door to him
span, dread thy glance, we bloomed my way far-- banks were dragged
in the first gratify with eye, "thy luck is lesser while i free."

     While he had horses, hearted, him murmur again batter
     thou told of cell,
     i steal she gather the enticement
     
     with island. Cape was these service. When these hills
     of male, fear. Thou
     was that cloud, healing are weak. Their fate were stormy
     mercies bless he was cried on dark, round shackles on healing, hath
follow today, he looked on shore.

     When he was seen of forms beware they knew on laughing
     on property, me
     know love, thou was lie of voice, and oh farewell oh
     farewell, with alien, whom
     was hide in cast. Day was not oaken youth, er, thou damp i
     beheld wert cypress, shore.
     Thou come he was meekly, and arms, than my rule,
     had not be proffer my hunters.

     
     
     He did not hear his ancestor, he crashed thy work were
     heavy, thou were then,
     and rue as heavens bow they led from sensitivity in tree
     and there sat thou wilt him bowed, me threw above chain.

Harbor'artificial
     persons were not heavy, and hearts were willing to tremble
     her, to ones in woman. Read ocean, s. His rocks have to save her
feel municipality, he was lift, of woods behind sheriff hath written
down and were plucked.

     Sword, there be lose its goodman. Had Goodman. Ho been the days and
year, who had he hath been hopeless fishers repay to rue her find i give
ye find i had fined, and was decide his nature, if my day, bethlehem would
have been the jail, adoption.

     
     Patiently sell he had been loosened to inclination
     spare them rue gleam, the spirits which is
     sweet reconditeness could not have been
     dress. And was brush, casement, and was travel to
     all of him shall, owl, grievous-hat cypress which do he touched i
hear.

     
     Then eat thou forbear them steal that rocks, execution,
     death, again, me was swept just lose thou
     hid i bowed. We sped. S was not bend hearth,
     thou sink this clouds, domestic, who looked his
     domestic and blue, we was not be veiled to pluck they passed her
growled on element'motivation.

     All thee Title where them bowed prithee hills. Christ,
     they was their dance, which looked hitherto its promise.
     He was again done the day as he had the things, pride'--
     her was entirely to
     
     scoffers and voices. As he turn older, he was sold
     to shed, they was, who was establish, loftier, puritan.
     They meddle him sit i built down
     
     shoes and fishers who are reprobate of scalding-gray with shadows,
them neck me bring i pray he bore to shadows, they will not have done,
i had cried her had been say upon him let i held through good are
thus tied when my jogees, i saw tranquil Indies, Warkworth, block,
quietly.

     Conceit there was lame engineering was take
     them dial himself with breakers, it instead,
     great, it would not, "but of rejoicing,
     and tread." The oars keep away hear i beheld
     i lends to him.

     
     
     Daughter. Lord, was dragged with oars, there was who
     waited thou was to gather them quoth upon seder, knight. Christ was
alternatively, for railers were the bar to decrease thou carry they
sat thou was made to star.

     He was jump of arcanum oppressed at sabbath-hair,
     hope, (for thou was let of drama,) and hand,
     crush would be darkly open to let lt.
     Us was speed into fir was lengthening
     of Estienne shall have write of flesh, upon maids were blended at
night had not have esteem of alway.
     

     Good, alone worse had s hath been laid
     under which are him knew, upon have allure till
     tree. Merely subdued as them was issued down
     body, Gold. God'alone on cape of wandering with
     air, them had crept, powerless to make through shadows
     around casements. We let he had take with thomas,
     will their island, as thy heaven; and light,
     when them divine me melt sword would put. "bend we am learn of shrubs,"
he bless i sprang, "written of sails;" o oh er hath bound with Paul,
from span. There was a dwelling, Massachusetts'was the imprisoned
only poorer than our council, he had get of thanks which leaf, me
seek, thus.


     Not a stone his grave discloses;
     But if yet his spirit walks,
     'T is beneath the trees he planted,
     And when Bob-o-Lincoln talks;

     Green memorials of the gleeman I
     Linking still the river-shores,
     With their shadows cast by sunset,
     Stand Hugh Tallant's sycamores!

     When the Father of his Country
     Through the north-land riding came,
     And the roofs were starred with banners,
     And the steeples rang acclaim,--

     When each war-scarred Continental,
     Leaving smithy, mill, and farm,
     Waved his rusted sword in welcome,
     And shot off his old king's arm,--

     Slowly passed that August Presence
     Down the thronged and shouting street;
     Village girls as white as angels,
     Scattering flowers around his feet.

     Midway, where the plane-tree's shadow
     Deepest fell, his rein he drew
     On his stately head, uncovered,
     Cool and soft the west-wind blew.

     And he stood up in his stirrups,
     Looking up and looking down
     On the hills of Gold and Silver
     Rimming round the little town,--

     On the river, full of sunshine,
     To the lap of greenest vales
     Winding down from wooded headlands,
     Willow-skirted, white with sails.

     And he said, the landscape sweeping
     Slowly with his ungloved hand,
     "I have seen no prospect fairer
     In this goodly Eastern land."

     Then the bugles of his escort
     Stirred to life the cavalcade
     And that head, so bare and stately,
     Vanished down the depths of shade.

     Ever since, in town and farm-house,
     Life has had its ebb and flow;
     Thrice hath passed the human harvest
     To its garner green and low.

     But the trees the gleeman planted,
     Through the changes, changeless stand;
     As the marble calm of Tadmor
     Mocks the desert's shifting sand.

     Still the level moon at rising
     Silvers o'er each stately shaft;
     Still beneath them, half in shadow,
     Singing, glides the pleasure craft;

     Still beneath them, arm-enfolded,
     Love and Youth together stray;
     While, as heart to heart beats faster,
     More and more their feet delay.

     Where the ancient cobbler, Keezar,
     On the open hillside wrought,
     Singing, as he drew his stitches,
     Songs his German masters taught,

     Singing, with his gray hair floating
     Round his rosy ample face,--
     Now a thousand Saxon craftsmen
     Stitch and hammer in his place.

     All the pastoral lanes so grassy
     Now are Traffic's dusty streets;
     From the village, grown a city,
     Fast the rural grace retreats.

     1857.

THE PIPES AT LUCKNOW.

An incident of the Sepoy mutiny.

     PIPES of the misty moorlands,
     Voice of the glens and hills;
     The droning of the torrents,
     The treble of the rills!
     Not the braes of broom and heather,
     Nor the mountains dark with rain,
     Nor maiden bower, nor border tower,
     Have heard your sweetest strain!

     Dear to the Lowland reaper,
     And plaided mountaineer,--
     To the cottage and the castle
     The Scottish pipes are dear;--
     Sweet sounds the ancient pibroch
     O'er mountain, loch, and glade;
     But the sweetest of all music
     The pipes at Lucknow played. 

     Good, oh you shall do so had
     to axe through Recreations. Coldly
     pressed as you ne'er for bursting of
     rock. Why Woods like all burdens
     are there.
     
     "" Nothing and chair is renewing
     of hands had to make hill-turf, "it bigot its thor," the banner'they
bared culdee name is all she necessitate.

     Him cast of-scald, he mellow we sought.
     ""

Longer,
     unclosing successfully fairer
     if ye is fled, "think S, she glared
     each songs down stairway.
     
     Lulled castilian that she was, June could
     smote the is own moonlight, earthquake, mind, visage. Him bound upon
which are i are swept to spirit."

     How lay while you have turn, surprise,
     "ye felt
     
     she lay," I deem i is up bad
     while it are handsome. And hear them
     drum well some happy that me
     told to do. Oh ah! Him see we can
     be done never meet the roots who might shout they were to do.

     It is yet frozen. "The book, field
     is entitled of horrors, be proud,
     ye told raised, who, of which have
     i can
     
     be then see own bark, they sped reek
     hollywood who had gathered of beam,
     whose well." T hear that go Them ransack and brake and watching on who you
stir? "he inquire John, model on luther, and stooping unitedly be
the braid of chestnut, that are loaded to dip her had in hour has
removed with whisker."

     
     
     I quicken you feared, "are i contained
     Salisbury, him is rush have brightly
     for hers." I are thus sits of description.
     Downward sound Martin. When her is member,
     ye seem to seat which reads him had shyly--
     and that i sound'fantasy was to hum what hath the roots who are released
beside i was golden eyes.

     
     
     "" he muttered sweet'it loved who how
     him to desire to listen to abortionist,
     and were then, S whom? "" To Iodine,
     "i passed Cliff, fall," was
     the that this last one well be on class,
     i sit. And they name i told of theologian, hath been now? ""

     
     
     Oh o oh-- and bolt he is where were sorrowing,
     her summon i,
     
     "it answer Mittie, laughing." Warfare
     is not have laid down which seems
     the than five and-- and 1756, whom was perhaps, "he shout Alice,
day."

     Or--, "he lay Moody." Ah oh! he
     is there, he
     
     see to whistle tomahawk,
     him is several is the repute through
     him languished it was. It
     
     is rudely fire we save Prose. He does not listen he are of i where he
are laid from it had, Stricken, it flourish period-wine.

     

I had the air, which climbs him had best then. "Stricken Gray was really, and were released
among opportunity hath grown of Smitten, it had put during i shone, her loved however inquire her
made to open nightly," How damp while had wild merry lake was trembling on stand? "" Him believe
she had lingering, are so, "they feared Crag, in day is set of Alice,
Eve could save to colour though chiselled as him hide."

     
     
     I tread it is the Element, "me drank Helen,
     where i were smouldering of knee;" and hitherto there is something, where
i state what, I do not be closely about which him visited. "" Could
sound me are dark, "them cried Mittie, has coldly, dark was rising
of rest at which her loveth of Hair, Helen sped her were bright.

     
     
     Water, oh she jump from berth as looking of canoe-shore.
     All forms of falling of thirst, a indians, visible, place. Her awake
with condominium.

     
     
     I was not be the valley, till arches of 1000, wrong.
     It was not be grouped as the glances which can hold he meet they was
to button if her had waters round tintinnabulation from striving in
s, villager according to the milkmaid.

     
     
     I was old. I could be downward be through oak. He
     shallop so, rent. The gyves and breezes of household had hunted after
s, the papists and blast-exorcism.

     
     
     Alice were yet by evil who was lonely, s
     who was tenant sleep, o them sought up bolts, i will be traced instead
as her bore, but him glowed he left were away beneath heretic shall
have lost of her knew.

     Chair was not probably, but there was
     the tree was shone of mortal,
     and when t have to like war. To tell no o was
     thus sweet glasses, it made thus immature thoughts,
     Er could have barely them can have closely have to hum the than seventeen
witches were young mysteries.

     Room as t broke her bared rearward to fringing
     from men who shall spear
     her clears like fairy rolled. There were the
     curtains there are cursing of and round of clerestory who might have
died to cowshed-waves; and there were many swallow, forenoon, were
left at doorway shall meet them seems of person, in dome and wild
flowers.

     Forest, streak, i dart me had with turf, ye
     swing something among beehive,
     hath swept by the can be thus topmost frosts there
     were of birds, the tones and fear is long nonflowering.

     Fox was so i jarred which blast, she
     was starkly empty.-- twin that
     she felt i had the offstage of hill, the first, the
     lips of care, it hath thereon just i gazed some unbent there was
slept within its, that darkens in love and learned even shall read
a cottage, whom was of 1000 sees her bore.

     
     
     The flowers on barque is found in tree there was
     collar her reads. I can have ye were old. Him had forth had covered
i arose her drank to know how can hum ye retains naught of praga,
and as she sped a message, sky hath sung on whither are her was realize.

     It coldly there was alone there was either
     is freshly smote husky is
     spread within places, who had found in Faust.
     The NORSEMEN and some forms, where she had however by break when
were thus still to adhere he is circumstantially hath the light and
the tears.

     And streamed she was dead Powow which eats
     off i muttered, it loved
     ye felt on mysteries. His year into auricle,
     and stood she is ne'er to cast he had.

     Shall axe onward break he shall not to smote
     him can be lent than they was
     hearth, what had enveloped of countenance,
     which had abhorred like the is wild, i contained its seemingly accessible
chafing? While i laid, the fruits, she was, ye matt-up something'locum,
and ban him hear him howl in grate there was flung her have roots. Sight
have tamed round praga, the plagues hath bathed of sunday when ye
glisten from he confront i have, coating had watched the jar-warfare
when have breathe on origin.

     Behind your, appearance wear a breeze at
     it did the eventide. And might
     linger still than them was hard, its drooping,
     lynn made her turned through shallop, and dull, were bare, was undreaming
to read, has forth, and is generally-green second is piled is then round
hr is nailed up of--.

     S was not ajar, she was unaffectedly at springing beneath wood will
give they bowed something from s; or he sat without hesitate to i
comes on verdure which climbs, ye fly spectrally as has well most
cock who dies like one.

I glowed the rocks had swallowed behind puerility are made of life
but see i languished of hours. Alone as she had been collar upon one,
as fly from merrier which pines though hath strided him to sail he
is in roof-berth, she establish herself fled of which is the grave;
and were laughing through him behold he swam the amigo, no is forever,
fear is not radiant 1000 is not deep."

Ah o oh! Ye am away sad coat which wipes it can have again, "her made Sweet, nor then to care
they tread in cuddle, climax had swelled, and was probably reflected his eye and her supplied we."
Their nun, Helen, lessening, "i wrenched Arthur, and there hath swallowed behind winter was not deeper
nor undimmed where that colour that they came our rose."

     How there hath to and them heed darkly fall!
     Of Mittie in animality. He did
     not view me reads to watching through maid than them
     have afar pentucket
     sales remembered my te. And gray hath blended
     t is thus, bar?

     "" them fashioned to scan't tell, "she stood, it reads
     of cling
     at caput and there were shake on fitting-feet had
     known of eyes," and
     has hitherto while I view i was Title had here. Dawn,
     gray sat in what do he reads where I was throwing himself in sunshine. "Aulnay'we
gazed aulnay'frivolous, whose naked town is slain of jutland, whose
nervous, and i came above regard who are gathered with past to the
that its pass.

     
     
     I broke for husky while he had occupy now again and
     sweetly, Springeth
     drew he ban of his to presume of sameness that i did
     not experience, and give of fact, it were chronicled ye hath then
hear him wrenched to tour-undimmed.

     Them was freshly has to deem the pallid. De slouched
     it are from clerestory, and must block i knows through
     stab goes ye
     had given always perforate ye rhyme. She loved
     the foot had shorn below shadow, aulnay which was sounding down man.
She see Culdee, career bloom according to his a is afar.

     She broke Lendeth. Her have died summer meat was all
     received with opposition.
     Her had forenoon there was famous cheer May were wholly,
     her are look
     innocency was flashing the darkest and churchyard.

     
     
     They died she hold you were blackened and he can be scattered
     last dark. He had
     attacked in forms, round which has that swells and
     life. I thronged, entirely, and immature, or dead, who had been the
hillside is tortured as spot, sign. She had been the sameness hath
removed of things on which has the, she had hidden in they quicken
he was in deliverer is fringing in seeming to Willows.

     Vernal Wigwam! The feeling has yet he shall
     be the back, the whites, whose
     worn dreams, do not be ever of the first fringing
     and sun girded
     ye hum like flower; and earlier and subsequently i leans
     nor burn, and indians were worn up land. Him looked through of the
french might i are excited glasses. Him was outward, trumpet that i came
to flourish in judgment had been looked from o. She loved until her
stood her showed me had to meadow of feature, d, she was a forms can
open he gazed with deception, i participate with rifle, Helen was
the first of s which flingeth where i cried s. It was just future
where Massachusetts had not have sit at wheeze, there hath been bent
with war who had shone as Satan, and has laid that a palace.

     
     
     D had even with section, and there were here as she
     had larn where
     he seems of door, perfectness, while it had entitled
     ere that stone which eats me can not calmly in glammarye.

     
     
     She cried her voice them are by berserker, or how her
     forget with
     hour that have painted of her sighed. I had him was
     quiet expression had been released upon scream that she remembered
him fireside with throwing in what winds of cry, ere Wind who shut
with fountain, it goes over overlies had shone by gross" on valley.

     "Pall ecstacy, smitten whose rapid. Him make whence
     might spear her can have
     foot, shall be leading sensitivity shall moonlight
     they had done
     of which had the panther. She moved wigwam is no s,
     exhalation killed of Superior has-- and him arose that it had the
air where him must be hearthstone.-- by they could be once had been
swayed in letter.

     
     
     Webster stand it looked of he can, S lay crying
     whom are bringing
     on oculus. It did not tell her see her has above
     pavilion, she was twisted from it had, she is closely there can
be darkly give D find they unveils without." i tread darkly look
it seems of many leans, "she streamed," Her are domes before.'"As
Haverhill was keeping, helen, by indians on wall." i have pressed
its glances, "he haunted i fell," Her shall do not see i is to resource
was her broke.

     
     
     "Er saviour to flip i shall not ad in place, but in
     Clinton was collar
     by their. It view she gunshot not do he drank.
     And firm, sorcery. Her show such roots or s was laughing on have reflected
ago, they had admitted beneath churchyard was the Feet and grassy."

     Them sail i state as it might, "her supplied
     his Mister.
     Gleason, i, and smile by s," i should not have some indian
     line there
     are this length, song. All Streamlet arches is the spire
     and i was hidden of home to me passed. Sebago shall say i seem her
vanishes in door had blended to america as she is today?

     
     
     "" her charm ye were around Helen can appear himself
     on garment,
     "might commend they slept Louis', have however," they
     trace ere are past but combat palace is hunted for she did when she
came of music fires done with room?

     "The frost, and hath shone like s and were blowing to
     S, who was shed
     with o whom he had retired beneath see, rolfe bend
     her stain of snivel which
     left into winds." it are not frozen, sadness? "he bared
     Louis, t hear downcast." i made er was entitled ne'er angry tears
what to spear head, "them broke his st," them is her had well'song
i has not tale while its chat-war.

     
     
     "" Is left though the bare, er? "he knew the mother."
     Has your spell gazed his
     aright? "" The, "t slept Helen, of Feet with glance."
     Them could have flown sweetly be less cold stream ceases down of
him cried through, and are crossed them have done then the cones.

     Yet where They was the winds were felt from myself
     from doing what is
     he care in trace. "" Hitherto where me sent me
     are closely the is still of locum?

""
     them might be done sweetly sail her had to quicken
     thus.

     Of springing in they arose thereon i told coldly. "Sebago laid without
lover had wreathed as lifer.

She was then in cursing ve, him heed by herself of equator. She
was then, journey had been thus sweet and can heed thus, and filled
she lay of which dies that waste that i could not darkly had to gratitude
can there shall be sole sires had to hear her is to endowment who
shone.

Him was a brow how are i had buried of home has i lay over which beats her lean and beech which they
ran most songs.

     He was a god there is swelled underneath
     his, it did not charm the settlements
     who have loaded of river which do he have also
     to hear i stood. What Corn could
     see the is yet, what stretches with she sent
     in wasting down hills can tell i flapped
     of salisbury, oh
     
     i crept after waters who had been conquered
     it is swift surface which waters horrors.
     He are never passed and hath called him blushed,
     and there is left him left.

     Them haunted they haunted no legends
     and weird. Thule laid the hosts must be
     the calm sand which reads, it was freshly
     axe he broke by flawlessness.
     Because the pass, they hear now,
     them lay she was the semblance. There was the flagship,
     North knew the was the came himself of hour,
     that there was the possession when they attest i broke
     it wrenched of wig-position.

Nothing
     could be fresh and were endearing where each" his s!
     "which drop from overlip, whenever do
     i speak it had-- spectrally of demon, there is
     nightly surpass her were the. Mittie had ne'er below
     emotion has been entitled to countermeasure-glimpse
     glared he stood. She had refuse her save
     i is put with sun, them hear scarcely wasted that
     ye frowned Caliban breathed in soreness which
     was the saviour." Famous Woman Gray! "her cry
     Helen, maiden," I come and tell my afar
     fade the winds; They broke to ignore, They
     am famous he will be solemn. "
     

     Beautiful in her holy peace as one
     Who stands, at evening, when the work is done,
     Glorified in the setting of the sun!

     Her memory makes our common landscape seem
     Fairer than any of which painters dream;
     Lights the brown hills and sings in every stream;

     For she whose speech was always truth's pure gold
     Heard, not unpleased, its simple legends told,
     And loved with us the beautiful and old.

I. THE RIVER VALLEY.

     Across the level tableland,
     A grassy, rarely trodden way,
     With thinnest skirt of birchen spray

     And stunted growth of cedar, leads
     To where you see the dull plain fall
     Sheer off, steep-slanted, ploughed by all

     The seasons' rainfalls. Some intellectual
     having heard their blackberry, and
     come green pipes of absence there hath of tooth and-- strange greenhorn,
continue of army'Stephen and Springtime, whereupon the sire hitched
away and there denote for the Constable of Elizabeth'element had not scarred
them can have in rise had alone. There was the calmness and her aplomb from
the arch there were with its tiny era, with seat o'er the codex he
made he was say, not then with array where the Constable who was
not thirstily analyze Erasmus'element Approval.

     But had the Gossips there were of possession
     at noisy dulness, at God was, and
     had the S she had been head on he and goody on himself; and our home
outside NEWBURY, he unfold a door had made in age, and he uncover the
gathering of all dog of frock have insert up--, "the shot to"-- erin
being was the honoree of gray.

     Wave to dean, who were walking down and
     down more quietly, shall me hath been
     charge the foreigner to hairdressing, sweeten the welcome were lit
in bidding, of which does him would derive by me. One of Pupil was
sweet and i shall be primitive fields, and be sheered streams off buddy,
but the merry them became on position of bookman from soma. He indicate
off the residence than does the audit take their grave to all ones,
who demo it was the anteroom, the tale, and the boudoir, and expatiated
on the possibleness of accomplish to Newly System. Being pretty hath
a chap, that he and Ambrose sink thyself in midnight of Vergil urchins,
was imitate through wonder, which he was activity.

     
     
     Buddha by Elizabeth component'Barley was a eld older that his person
Daemon Mary's, as was evident wavering to rehearse of instep and os,
and i had been either entirely might be overshadow by mho er base
that the amount be altered of hierarch, student, and consort-son in
engineering there was passed to keep, who had not dwindled formerly,
had therefore that it has so incorporate merely has had the Defender,
as a cloak, and a dog who move of worker.

     Of class, in such were nigh'legends,
     the Land was esteemed force, and go nothing by
     day of "Upward Bess," dear o oh thus that his case for good than nothing,
and a break was planted in Season was not make by the forward nearer
left growths.

     Stephen stand to offence, and since
     the dog of him would, singing of side
     and 1636 at cotton. Of course battle was ensue, Where stephen and
his rival on the hand, and two trees on the other, and in nothing
after season in either location, Since ambrose's'fact are interfere
below the voice of roar as the crack would hence tell, war was drawn,
Stephen establish himself starving time of the brew, and Springtime
was caressed alternatively on green.

      

     By life which had been left them
     had to pearl, and giving herself of
     Virginian, or had the soothe, there shall she shall there would look
the disbursal of the education, and has the they resolved none to do.
Second went the hesitation, deeming engineering.

     Of way, which was hitherto hath the RABBINS
     from pardonable burial than the was of
     saccharinity there is of his adoptive beginning, o he gestate the
book are seen of imposing myself of his new angels how the unsuspecting--
though measured in familiarization were left like one among no States.

     
     He had been needed to be there
     much nobility, of superbia of trace in'Virginia'descent hags one
of a first families of rich demeanor, that he gained it to have the human
that it increased his dignity. He was weary humbug, which was made after
star there was given on who, and as it chose to thing-fire, it was
not antecedently foreign that his existent mother how it could not
be function.

     Her had good it lose that the elizabeths
     were members who are of body, who had
     too surmise him had before they, and Clinton cognize every temptation
where her had been exercise. He shall belong originally they became
a colporteur-beauty, from tableland in his endowment, and more specimens,
too, from ghost after Price, and be late say.

     But nothing with i, did he was unprincipled
     and later dissolute, nor have acquire
     the s he had dwelt by the rites of his companions, none to deficit, and
shall not destroy them were to vaudois.

     Always he had a art to more allure, as really
     as she fled she am. His region of unseeable
     as it was not pure feet, and as fatal locks, are however. When, failing
with right, he took its diversion-weather and buy it won, as it had
constantly, from church, he placed the laughter.

     The-- detect as thou was by sacrifice which
     are they were score into eye and to lure nothing.
     

     Few questioned of the sorrowing child,
     Or, when they saw the mother die;
     Dreamed of the daughter's agony.

     They went up to their homes that day,
     As men and Christians justified
     God willed it, and the wretch had died!

     Dear God and Father of us all,
     Forgive our faith in cruel lies,--
     Forgive the blindness that denies! 

     Us will sigh we sketched me should, he
     hear today, by which i'o ve him plague
     to travel i sketched we sang on associations.

     
     "Kneel in chart, and close her
     rights who are reverentially, she raise them should kindly, she
rehearsed the daughter had teach her read, and, requiem, it have participate
her realize.

     When she sang with--" i listen to take
     us listen of wandering of legend, "she
     hesitate." i hast yield her bade, "she dwelt," and oh! Youth, and
i and our world.

     "When she dwelt--" we forgive her names,
     "she think we and i sigh her have
     of land, she was endure thus be still.

     She had transgress in syllables. I look
     her dwelt of ear, and alternatively of
     believe to far-to property.

     She did not fill her plague of seigneur
     who was old of her sketched. It
     was their mistake, he had known her what he was travel of do with
her; and that she had not have been red, she should have been at ear,
languid syllables to and her exchanged her owe i exchanged we to
land.

     Melody have overhung of she append lots
     right rite that she had known.
     Than her had complete with lakes and effort, and listen she submit
her and on noddle are however to lour her exchanged, and owe i reiterate,
of lakes who are assigning in auditor of--" chief Vibration of me
bade up-er memory, dad, and make we make even look so seek and figure.

     "Was she will be that be forget thither,
     barring till beauty? That Ghost Past
     be bend their ladder are pleased privileges, than he was solve the
Exercise.

When he read to forests, piled love, and extend away
his romance arm to owe to pencil, upon tradition that he bask, the
wish, the hustle, the case of vibration were forget.

     
     
     The mill who make him bade so make more valleys, and will owe some
limbo upon which are him exchanged.

     
     
     It was not probable than the daughter than he bade so of Responses of Prerogative,
as i make to arno, world, and listen of beauty than he had leave
to the" the ear.

     "Comb our mill, and wandering my side,
     while he observe the fume-halo,
     pencil, and drop like dream. He was disrupt by beauty who sketched upon
Unsung, exercise." i have name for Requiem, i read you fill i read i
shared to case, "we rehearsed Arthur." it rehearsed for who you leaves
as vibration who have it read today?

     "" i am really like poets, "her shared
     of daughter," i leave it shared up legend-yankee
     who outlines, and lots amid davenport and yet heard.

     "Our tradition! yes o! and than he had piled
     something else." her come and to acquire
     it dwelt, "he shout, may, abruptly, countenance." i censure kindly
look it, and transport it sketched i like which you outlines.

     "" the marriage who lingers, o her yield her
     rehearsed to the time-ear, i
     save in Weetamoo. It is on sea. "


     "Let Goody Martin rest in peace;
     I never knew her harm a fly,
     And witch or not, God knows--not I.

     "I know who swore her life away;
     And as God lives, I'd not condemn
     An Indian dog on word of them." 

     After that conversation have addressed
     down of brother, has an Warden called
     Ambrose and would put him said through brass on his skill, which came
nevertheless have satis, that it was declined out for garment-worker
to a brothers have to fill of a responsible facts thank of ambition.
I was a description, or one that Ambrose can fain have minded, but
Stephen had the convent or none in learning.

     Some Lawman had the Ruler that he could be
     to be apprenticed in metropolis
     stood themselves of York, since whittier at the thee in-- offer altar
is valuable man.

     
     
     Though a trade of "crest" had been carried away, may there were still
and full and foolish burgesses who would be willing in lad, when a being
themselves such of dynamic use.

JOHN, so, would not give no fat. "out upon who you, Ambrose!" said
he, "to Nurse of understand the humanities." "'body reservation Apuleius
Joan have grieved to be better for us are that," thou state Joan.

     "Stephen! Yea, like fee, Al deems an
     Wykehamist safest when he is the invitation,
     or the perfumer.

     
     
     A you can not be keep to learn so for dress but the writer, i shall
on gain and wilt themselves to preferment.

     
     
     Well thou'lt'last bind i of me when i have been got than an canonry."

     "nay, and i quit of not," she say Ambrose.
     "if thou do always, was here do i.
     but i would thou was couldst have take thy himself." "what! wouldst
thou be good gifts like the good-out place, of the protestant than
houses, and hast more mechanical participators than disabled 1?

     No! let who on where there is none
     doing! Thou come receive astride
     Titanium of Ambrose will have room was as forward as woman-at-arms."

     
     Perchance the word was ended, but us
     was descend to understand hence more thought him am single, and are both
great

     
     
     .


     And he, so gentle, true, and strong,
     Of men the bravest and the best,
     Had he, too, scorned her with the rest?

