Instead of answering the count, Adrienne took from the stand one of the freshly-cut volumes,
and, bringing it to M. de Montbron, said to him, with a smile and a celestial expression of
joy and happiness: "I was wrong--I am vain. Just read this--aloud, if you please. I tell you
that I can wait for to-morrow." Presenting the book to the count, she pointed out one passage
with the tip of her charming finger. Then she sank down upon the couch, and, in an attitude
of deep attention, with her body bent forward, her hands crossed upon the cushion, her chin
resting upon her hands, her large eyes fixed with a sort of adoration on the Indian Bacchus,
that was just opposite to her, she appeared by this impassioned contemplation to prepare herself
to listen to M. de Montbron.

The latter, much astonished, began to read, after again looking at Adrienne, who said to him,
in her most coaxing voice, "Very slowly, I beg of you."

M. de Montbron then read the following passage from the journal of a traveller in India: "'When
I was at Bombay, in 1829, I constantly heard amongst the English there, of a young hero, the
son of--'"

The count having paused a second, by reason of the barbarous spelling of the name of Djalma's
father, Adrienne immediately said to him, in her soft voice: "The son of Kadja-sing."

"What a memory!" said the count, with a smile. And he resumed: "'A young hero, the son of Kadja-sing,
king of Mundi. On his return from a distant and sanguinary expedition amongst the mountains
against this Indian king, Colonel Drake was filled with enthusiasm for this son of Kadja-sing,
known as Djalma. Hardly beyond the age of childhood, this young prince has in the course of
this implacable war given proofs of such chivalrous intrepidity, and of so noble a character,
that his father has been surnamed the Father of the Generous.'"

"That is a touching custom," said the count. "To recompense the father, as it were, by giving
him a surname in honor of his son, is a great idea. But how strange you should have met with
this book!" added the count, in surprise. "I can understand; there is matter here to inflame
the coolest head."

"Oh! you will see, you will see," said Adrienne.

The count continued to read: "'Colonel Drake, one of the bravest and best officers of the English
army, said yesterday, in my presence, that having been dangerously wounded, and taken prisoner
by Prince Djalma, after an energetic resistance, he had been conveyed to the camp established
in the village of--"

Here there was the same hesitation on the part of the count, on seeing a still more barbarous
name than the first; so, not wishing to try the adventure, he paused, and said to Adrienne,
"Now really, I give this up."

"And yet it is so easy!" replied Adrienne; and she pronounced with inexpressible softness,
a name in itself soft, "The village of Shumshabad."

"You appear to have an infallible process for remembering geographical names," said the count,
continuing: "'Once arrived at the camp, Colonel Drake received the kindest hospitality, and
Prince Djalma treated him with the respect of a son. It was there that the colonel became acquainted
with some facts, which carried to the highest pitch his enthusiasm for prince Djalma. I heard
him relate the two following.

"'In one of the battles, the prince was accompanied by a young Indian of about twelve years
of age, whom he loved tenderly, and who served him as a page, following him on horseback to
carry his spare weapons. This child was idolized by its mother; just as they set out on the
expedition, she had entrusted her son to Prince Djalma's care, saying, with a stoicism worthy
of antiquity, "Let him be your brother." "He shall be my brother," had replied the prince.
In the height of a disastrous defeat, the child is severely wounded, and his horse killed;
the prince, at peril of his life, notwithstanding the perception of a forced retreat, disengages
him, and places him on the croup of his own horse; they are pursued; a musket-ball strikes
their steed, who is just able to reach a jungle, in the midst of which, after some vain efforts,
he falls exhausted. The child is unable to walk, but the prince carries him in his arms, and
hides with him in the thickest part of the jungle. The English arrive, and begin their search;
but the two victims escape. After a night and a day of marches, counter-marches, stratagems,
fatigues, unheard-of perils, the prince, still, carrying the child, one of whose legs is broken,
arrives at his father's camp, and says, with the utmost simplicity, "I had promised his mother
that I would act a brother's part by him--and I have done so."'

"That is admirable!" cried the count.

"Go on--pray go on!" said Adrienne, drying a tear, without removing her eyes from the bas-relief,
which she continued to contemplate with growing adoration. Civic life had taught him that a human body can not take all space for him, it needs
to adhere to other bodies traveling through the same places him. Chinto left, therefore, more room,
was collected, not swinging well. The blouse ticking Blue drew her stout back, neck and hands
discovering dark, wide sombreron of detestable gray felt honored his head, peel and lirondo
and by the grace of the barber.

A beautiful summer afternoon waiting to Amparo very proud, because in the pockets of the blouse
brought him peaches, acquired in the square with their savings. A quarter of an hour had the
factory workers go out now, and the daughter of waffle missing. Great entertainment and door,
where the establishment of a market, not the position of missing tapes, thimbles, thread pins
and needles, but it was the dominant seafood baskets of mussels cooked already glazed black and
orange and green sea urchin spines covered in barnacles clustered and leathery, of silvery sardines,
and a thousand tiny seafood, speakers, limpets, clams, squid tentacles scattered left and hang
their dead spiders legs. Such box whose bottom was a piece of calm sea, a dock uneven stones,
a shore cliff, had much Neapolitan landscape, completing the analogy, the costumes and attitudes
fishermen not far from the sun tend to dry networks. Standing at the threshold the yard, a
blind man stood still, dead face, unshaven beard you turning blue cheeks, straight and trova the greasy
hair, laying a slouch hat, where it rained rooms and crusts in abundance.

Chinto looked at bay with his mouth open, and when at last he came Amparo, could not see it:
Instead she saw him from afar, and swift as an arrow, changed course, taking the famous Calle
del Sol, which make up half a dozen houses and two walls humped crowned grass and wild wallflowers.
He ran up to the way the cruise, and laying it side, crossed the road and the slope of San
Hilario, where believing restrained step in safety now. There was also a hobby of the dunce
that, if not leave it to the sun or shade, and give escort every afternoon! And as his company
was so funny, and as he spoke so graciously that it seems as if his mouth was full of paste, as they
beat the words to language! Amparo ran well, as he went down to the Puerta del Castillo, defended
yet as in illo tempore, on the drawbridge and rattling chains.

At the same time, some women came up, which was crossed with the cigarette. Iban almost in order
hieratic; front short girls, among whom towered NISIT, the ear, provided a large ball, then the
group of nubile, Josefina Garcia, Lola Sobrado, wearing its infancy and its recent queues, the
flanks of the platoon and the reinforcing Baltasar Pommel, and as Baltasar was not to be put
right next to his sister, tocábale go near Josefina. The widow bringing up the rear and Dolores
Garcia, this carilarga and Erysipelatous complexion, the widow without touch or mourning, before
very bulwark of bright colors.

The flashes of the sun, dying in the waters of the bay, gave birth to a time Baltasar and Amparo,
making each other was seen or looked at. The young man with mustache blond, blond hair, delicate
complexion and blood, the brightness of his stripes who held the last gleams of the sun, looked
like gold, and the girl, brunette, red lips, with its crimson silk handkerchief, and the waves
lit frame that served as his figure, seemed made fire. Both looked at each other in an instant,
very long time, during which he believed involved in the irradiation of an atmosphere of light,
heat and life. Leaving envisaged, was that the splendor of the sunset is short and goes out then,
other causes were intimate and psychological, imagined that they felt a cold breath and began
to get dark.

They heard the Delete the word hoarse unbearable.

- Have you seen?

-
Who? - Baltasar Lieutenant stammered, pretending to consider very
carefully the tip of his boots, not to meet the researcher look at
Josephine.

- To the girl of waffle ... the cigarette?

- What?

Was this was happening? "- Said at last accepting the situation.

- Yeah, man, that .... What? Do I have a good eye?

- I also met - gave Josephine, whose soprano voice rose to high tone.

-
I do not greeted Borren said ...-- -.

I knew maybe ... and that got me to in Granera ... I recommended.
Well I always had to be a beautiful girl!

The that is otherwise not understand, man, but of the genre .... What do you think you?

- Me? - Josephine murmured between his teeth and aggressive vocal
hiss -.

Do not ask me you Borren .... These ordinary women seem all the same, cut from the same cloth.
Morena ... very coarse.

- Ave Maria, Josefina! - Shocked Lola said Sobrado -. Did not have time to see it: it is meets
beautiful and very funny. Look again at her ... if it happens again, I'll give the elbow.

- Do not bother ... not worth it is the kind of a cook and all of its species.

Baltasar was uncomfortable conversation and wanted an excuse to change it. Crossed ahead of a field
covered with dead grass, a kind of barren moor surrounded by canvases of wall fortifications.
There was a stop hire donkeys, who were waiting peacefully, with floppy ears, accustomed to their
customers, while burreros and footman, sitting on the boardwalk,
playing with their sticks, chatted amiably, and itching with a fingernail
to a cigar room, overwhelmed with offers to passersby.

- A donkey,
sir?

A beautiful ass? A donkey better than horses? Are we going to Aldeaparda? Are we going to Erbeda?

He
approached the girls Baltasar short, and told NISIT:

- A ride in
the country?

The girl is the dazzled eyes, and dropping the ball, threw her arms lieutenant with ingratiating
smile. Baltasar clinched, placing it on the back of a donkey, still jamugas of gold was placed
nails. He took the stick from the hands of the landlord, began to herd ... "Arre, burro!, Yoho,
Yoho, Yoho, Yoho."

Amparo, to reach the entrance of the rows, he felt behind him panting and breathing like jogging
a vermin hunted wild, and about the same time she paired with Chinto, sweating and panting.
The persecuted became scornfully, crushing a Tracker bounce-s look.

-
Why do you run well, fool? - Said to him in surly tone -.

If you believe that I escape? Care that ....

- There ...-- he replied by casting his lungs, such was his sobrealiento ...-- there ... because
you do not no company from coming ... there ... I amused myself with the steamer Havana, which
went ... more nice, shells!, threw smoke!

Where do you come you did not see you?

- For where I felt like it, repel! And you notice that I come back
to rotting blood phone companies .... Am I here a little girl?

Go to sell wafers, that there in the some people walk buy, and the
factory real damned if you roll all afternoon ....

-VIII-

The girl
is worth a Peru

Under protest to Josephine and all the ladies of
Marineda, the prophecies of Borren is been met.

Not an intelligent as he wrong in characterizing a masterpiece.

True the woman with the plants. Over the winter, we all look alike, are Log inert is the lifeblood
of the spring, covered with buds, leaves, flowers, and then admire. A few months are enough to
transform the bush and women. There is a critical moment in which female beauty takes consistency,
acquires its character, crystallises so to speak. The metamorphosis is most unexpected and
prompt people in other classes social. When it reaches the age of overpowering desire to please
the woman, breaks her ugly bud, gives the livery of poverty and work, and is decorated and seasoned
by instinct.

The day when "gentlemen" Amparo said she was pretty, had the girl
wandering consciousness of sex: until then had been a boy with skirts.

Nor anyone else thought of way: if a rogue street reminded him that was part of the most beautiful half
of the genus man, he removed half a cheek, and she rejected his fists, if not kicking and biting,
the great compliment. All things that you do not lose sleep or appetite. Played in making his summary
form that we know already, ran around plazas, roads and alleys; be bothered ladies who had some
unusual fashion, windows looked again, mucking ventaneros affairs, and went to bed exhausted
and without a bad thought.

Now ... Who told her that the toilet and composure that was not spent
enough?

Go you know! The mirror, because none of their house. It would be a mirror inside, very clear,
in which women see their own image and never cheated. The truth is that Amparo, which followed by reading
the barber progressive newspapers, called the salary of reading objects toiletries. And he gathered
an outfit worthy of the Queen, namely a escarpidor horn and a nit comb boxwood, two sets of forks,
eaten with rust, a jar of ointment of roses, half soap amandes aux America, with hairs of the beard
of the parishioners, cut and still attached; a bottle, almost empty, the essence of hay, and
other trinkets of the same ilk. Merging these Amparo managed elements rough figure and bring it
to light, revealing his true colors and shape, as is discovered buried in the pod picking it and
wash it. Your skin locked friendly relations with the water-free powder coating that clogged
your pores fine dark complexion was smooth, healthy and smooth imaginable. It was roasted, or
colorless, or on neither, of all he had, but with his mind and reason, and where desirable that
have it. The youth, rich blood, the outdoors, the loving caress of the sun, habíanse given the power
to create the magnificent color of that skin commoner. The smoothness of agate of the forehead,
the vermilion of the fleshy lips of the neck amber, pink transparent the bridge of the nose, the
brown velvet of the mole VOYAGE at the corner of mouth golden hair that falls between the
cheek and ear and comes back, tighter and dark in the upper lip, as mild stump shade things
were to tempt a colorful cogiese to the brush and tried to copy them. Thanks no doubt to the
ointment, the hair is not left behind and also showed that God made, black, curly, bright. Only
two accessories the face did not improve, perhaps because they were excellent, eyes and teeth, the
indispensable what is called a brown type. Amparo had two globes for eyes in the bluish cornea,
always bathed in a pure liquid, brought out the blackness of the wide pupil, poor veiled by short
and thick eyelashes. As for teeth, served by a stomach gastralgia not know, seemed thirty-two lumps of
curdled milk, hilarious uneven and somewhat pointed, like a puppy dog.

Observed, however, so handsome specimen reveal his feminine features extraction: the front was
short, slightly rolled up his nose, long tusks, the thick hair touch, direct gaze, ankles and
wrists are not very sensitive.

Her very fair skin was destined to be injected, like Mr. Rosendo, that back in the prime of life
had been, to say the neighbors and his wife, handsome waiter. But who thinks of the winter
to see the flowering bush? If no rondo Baltasar course near the factory, was designed to efface
that for some time to Ciudad Real, and feared going just bored.

-IX-

The Glorious

Occurred shortly after an incident in Spain entertained
the nation seven years complete, and even The rejection is entertaining
and its consequences, namely that instead of the pronouncements boys
used, there was another large, called Revolution of September 1868.

Spain abode at first not knowing what was happening and as someone who sees visions. No wonder. A statement
really, that overthrew the dynasty! At last the country had made
a man or gave it made: the better for a southern town.

All were responsible for marine Army, progressives and unionists. González Bravo and Queen were
already in France when still unaware of the vast majority of Spanish if it was the Ministry or the
Bourbons who fell "forever" as they prayed the famous Madrid signs. However, soon to be persuaded
the nation that the case was serious, that not only the actual race, but the monarchy same,
were to walk into question, and then each was given to disrupt Quisque by his side. Only kept
silent on reservations and those who after seven years were to take the upper hand.

During the storm of shattered political ideas that arose suddenly, the field observose and the
cities located inland bowed to the monarchical tradition, while manufacturing and commercial
towns and seaports, hailed the republic.

On the coast Cantabrian Marineda the Pier and distinguished by the abundance of committees, boards,
clubs, proclamations, newspapers, and demonstrations. And it is noteworthy that from the first
moment as federal republic was invoked. Nothing, the unit did not work: only the federal offered
the people of perfect bliss. Why so? Who knows! An ingenious writer further said ahead of the federal
republic will not have occurred to anyone to Spain if Proudhon not writing a book on the federal
principle and if Pi does not translate and he said. In any be, and is worth explaining what Valiere,
it is clear that federalism was improvised there and everywhere in the blink of an eye.

Tobacco Factory was the center Marineda sympathizer (as we now say) for federal. Born of the collective
industrial policy fellowship, to the cigarette makers were opened Republican horizon in several
ways: through oral propaganda, then a very active, and most notably,
the newspapers teemed.

In each workshop was one or two readers, they paid their comrades lost time, and go. Amparo was
the most appreciated, the sense that led to the reading, had already acquired the habit of reading,
having practiced many times in the barbershop. His tongue was released, tireless his larynx, robust
his accent. Declaimed rather than read, with fire and expression, underlining the passages deserved
stressed, emphasizing the words italics, adding the necessary mimicry when required by the
case and starting slowly and mystery, and suppressed voice, paragraphs important to raise the anxiety
level and start eminent involuntary tremors of enthusiasm to the audience, when adopted faster
intonation and vibrant at every step. His impressionable soul, fuel, mobile, and superficial,
easily dyed the color of the paper who was in his hands, and reflected with extraordinary vividness
and fidelity. No more purpose for a job that requires great vivacity, but external, energy flow incessantly
renovated and available to spend in exclamations, in scenes of anger and fanatical hope. The figure
of the girl, the sparkle in his eyes and pasty warm inflections its stamped contralto voice,
contributing to the surprising effect of reading.
 That my attachment for you may have misled
me, is possible--I am not infallible; but, after my past conduct towards you, my dear young
lady, I have, perhaps, some right to be astonished at seeing myself thus treated. This is not
a complaint. If I never justify myself, I never complain either."

"Now really, there is something heroic in all this, my good sir," said the count. "You do not
condescend to complain or justify yourself, with regard to the evil you have done."

"The evil I have done?" said Rodin, looking fixedly at the count. "Are we playing at enigmas?"

"What, sir!" cried the count, with indignation: "is it nothing, by your falsehoods, to have
plunged the prince into so frightful a state of despair, that he has twice attempted his life?
Is it nothing, by similar falsehoods, to have induced this lady to believe so cruel and complete
an error, that but for the resolution I have to-day taken, it might have led to the most fatal
consequences?"

"And will you do me the honor to tell me, sir, what interest I could have in all this despair
and error, admitting even that I had wished to produce them?"

"Some great interest no doubt," said the count, bluntly; "the more dangerous that it is concealed.
You are one of those, I see, to whom the woes of others are pleasure and profit."

"That is really too much, sir," said Rodin, bowing; "I should be quite contented with the profit."

"Your impudent coolness will not deceive me; this is a serious matter," said the count. "It
is impossible that so perfidious a piece of roguery can be an isolated act. Who knows but this
may still be one of the fruits of Madame de Saint-Dizier's hatred for Mdlle. de Cardoville?"

Adrienne had listened to the preceding discussion with deep attention. Suddenly she started,
as if struck by a sudden revelation.

After a moment's silence, she said to Rodin, without anger, without bitterness, but with an
expression of gentle and serene calmness: "We are told, sir, that happy love works miracles.
I should be tempted to believe it; for, after some minutes' reflection, and when I recall certain
circumstances, your conduct appears to me in quite a new light."

"And what may this new perspective be, my dear young lady?"

