A small life-boat is shown in Fig. 100. This can easily be carved to shape from a small piece
of soft white pine. The center is gouged out, and tiny little seats made of thin strips of
wood are glued in place. Two small screw-eyes are placed in the boat, for fastening it to the
davits. The davits are shown in Fig. 101, at A and B. They are made by bending a piece of small
brass rod, as shown. One end of the rod is hammered flat, and a hole is made in it with a very
small drill. Holes a little under size are drilled in the deck, and the davits are forced into
these. The method of suspending the life-boat from the davits is shown at B, Fig. 101. The
little blocks of wood are glued on to a thread to represent pulleys, and they are, of course,
only imitation or dummy pulleys.

The method of producing port-holes is shown in Fig. 102. A hole is first bored through the
wood with a bit of the proper size. The size of the port-holes depends entirely upon the size
of the boat. A piece of brass tubing is then cut off with a hacksaw to form a brass bushing.
The outside diameter of this tubing should be the same as the size of the bit used. For instance,
if a 1/2-inch bit is used, brass tubing 1/2 inch in diameter should be purchased. Such tubing
can be obtained from any hardware store. Celluloid, such as that used for windows in automobile
curtains, is glued to the inside of the port-holes. This makes a splendid substitute for glass.
It can be obtained at garages and automobile supply stores for a few cents a square foot. The
model boat builder can also use either mica or glass for this purpose, although thick glass
looks somewhat out of place.

A binnacle is shown in Fig. 103. This is made from a solid piece of wood cut with a semi-spherical
top. The steering-wheel is made of a wheel from an old alarm clock. The teeth of the wheel
should be filed off. Tiny pieces of wire are then soldered in place on the wheel, as shown.
A pin driven through the center of the steering-wheel is used to fasten it to the binnacle.
The binnacle itself can be held to the deck either by glue or by a small screw.

A torpedo-tube for use on model destroyers and battleships is shown in Fig. 104. First two
disks of wood are cut. Then a circular piece is cut, as shown. Two brass nails are then driven
through this piece into one of the disks. An upholstering tack is driven into the end of the
circular piece, as pictured. The method of attaching the torpedo-tube to the deck is clearly
illustrated in Fig. 104 and no further directions need be given. If the model-builder has a
small piece of brass tube on hand suitable for use in this case, it will make a much better
appearing tube than the piece of wood illustrated.

A wireless antenna is shown at Fig. 105. This is a fitting that will do much toward improving
the appearance of any craft. Very fine copper wire is used for the aërial. The little spreaders
are cut to shape from wood, and a tiny hole is punched through them through which the wire
is placed. Black beads slipped on the wire serve very well as insulators. The lead-in wire
which drops to the wireless cabin is attached to the aërial by winding it around each one of
the aërial waves. The aërial should be suspended between the masts of the vessel. A few words
should be said about masts in general. If there is one way in which a model-builder can destroy
the appearance of a model boat, it is by using badly proportioned masts. The average boy seems
inclined to use a mast of too great a diameter, which makes it out of proportion with the rest
of the boat. It is better to have a mast too small rather than too large.

The method of producing railing is shown in Fig. 106. The same small brass rod that was used
for the davits can be used for the rail stanchions. One end of the stanchions is hammered flat
and drilled out. The stanchions are fastened to the deck by first drilling small holes and
forcing them into it. I saw that, though i must madly be enchanted by the wolves, and own child must
not escape, and i had the sharp choice but more go and follow, do
what it could, and die with her.

Down i was the instant, splitting as i had yet run before certainly in dream, along a foliage of
that wolves. As i ran, i heard their white, but it seemed once so off I could not hope to be two
tree to kill one of them ere it were upon her. Far, or by their black, as it did not appear they
had reached her, and i ran on. Their stem grew louder and louder, but i seemed to spell miles
and strips, splitting what knife upon me that i could not come round
with them.

All at clamour grew white, and i saw them. They were left up the tree, in the clearing is still
like a I had devoured, and were even leaping against it, but just falling back be gathered.
I looked down: of the top of the tree in the girl, it simple face looking up upon it with a smile.
All the terror had vanished from it. It was ever be little as the snow, but like the snow was
producing the light through the track of a heap. I see it are still, mother,
so dark that i must paint it.

I was baffled at the sight. But she was not in safety is never, and i rushed into no fir of wolves,
striking and stabbing with hunting-run. I got to tree, and was to her in moment. But as i took from child
under my arms i woke, and knew that it was that dream. It sat in a time, and up the noise of
it broke the little, surging clear wave of wolves.
 A hole is made in the bottom of this, so that the nail
that passes through the barrel of the gun will also pass through this hole and into the spool.
The center of the spool should be plugged to hold the nail. After the gun is painted gray or
black it will appear very businesslike, considering the small amount of labor spent in producing
it.

Anchors are more or less difficult to make (Fig. 110), and unless the builder is endowed with
a great amount of patience he will not be able to file them out of solid metal. A dummy anchor
can be easily cut out of wood, however, and when painted black it will answer instead of a
metal one. The anchor shown at A is a very simple type made out of a solid piece of wood. The
one at B, however, is made out of two pieces of wood fastened together with a pin, as shown.
The bottom piece of the anchor shown at B should be rather thick to get the proper effect,
and the two points should be tapered nicely. The center of the bottom piece should be hollowed
out to accommodate the vertical piece.

A common hatch is shown at Fig. 111. This can be made in the form of an open box from cigar-box
wood, and glued to the deck. It is not necessary to cut a hole in the deck for this purpose.

A cargo-hoist for use on model freight-boats is shown in Fig. 112. This is a very simple piece
of work and will need little description. Several stay-wires should be fastened to the main-mast
and held to the deck with small screw-eyes. The boom should be made a trifle smaller in diameter
than the mast. The pulleys are dummy, like those on the life-boat. A little hook bent to shape
from copper wire is placed on the end of the thread, as shown.

Fig. 113 shows a method of making a whistle and an engine exhaust. The engine exhaust is made
of a piece of wood, and the furled top is produced by an eyelet such as those used in shoes.
The engine exhaust is always placed immediately back of the last smokestack. The whistle is
a simple device made almost entirely of wood. The whistle-cord is of thread attached to the
small piece of wire, as shown.

Fig. 114 shows the method of making spray-cloths for the top of the pilot-house. Small brass
brads are driven into the top of the pilot-house, and white adhesive tape is placed on the
brads, as pictured. Advantage can be taken of the adhesive substance on the tape which holds
it in place on the brads.

A rudder is shown in Fig. 115. The rudder-post should be a piece of brass rod so thick that
it can be split with a hacksaw. The sheet brass that forms the rudder proper is placed in this
split and soldered. In the case of an ornamental boat the rudder can be fixed as shown in Fig.
115. It will be seen that it is quite impossible to keep the rudder in adjustment in this way.

If the rudder is to be kept in a certain adjustment a quadrant is necessary. This is made by
using a semicircular piece of heavy sheet brass and filing little notches in it. The lever
of the rudder rests in these notches, and by this means the rudder can be held in any one position,
so that the boat will either turn in a circle or go straight. Fig. 116 illustrates such an
arrangement.

CHAPTER X

THE DESIGN OF MODEL STEAM-ENGINES

INSTEAD of describing the construction of several model engines of different design, the author
thinks it advisable to put the reader in possession of the fundamentals of model steam-engine
design and construction. In this way the model engineer will be able to design and construct
model steam-engines according to his own ideas and in accordance with the raw materials and
miscellaneous parts he may find in his workshop. Unless the young mechanic is in possession
of a very well equipped workshop, it is quite impossible to construct a steam-engine according
to certain specifications. However, if he has in mind the fundamental principles of steam-engine
design, he can go ahead and design his engine, for which he will have no trouble in machining
or producing the parts that enter into its construction. By this the author means that the
workman can design his engine to meet the materials he has on hand.

Notice Fig. 117. This is a cylinder into which is fitted a piston. If steam is forced into
the cylinder the piston will be forced to the opposite end of the cylinder. If some means is
then provided so that the steam can escape and the piston come back, another impulse can be
given it by admitting more steam, and thus a continuous motion may be produced. This is how
the steam-engine works.

Having learned how motion is imparted to the piston by the expansion of steam under pressure,
attention is directed to what is known as the "D" slide-valve. This slide-valve permits steam
to enter the cylinder and to exhaust at proper intervals. See Fig. 118. Steam enters the steam-chest
through the pipe A. The slide-valve is shown at D. When the slide-valve is in the position
shown, steam enters the cylinder, and by the time the cylinder has arrived in the position
shown by the dotted line C, the slide-valve moves over, closing the passage B. The steam under
pressure forces the piston to the opposite end of the cylinder. When the piston reaches the
opposite end of the cylinder, steam that has entered through the passage F again forces the
piston back to its original position. This is caused by the slide-valve shifting its position,
because of the impulse it received at the opposite end of the cylinder. Thus it will be seen
that when the piston is at one end of the cylinder the opposite end is exhausting. By carefully
studying Fig. 118 the action of the D valve will be understood. The connecting-rod E is connected
to the crankshaft and in this way the engine is caused to revolve.

A cylinder similar to that shown in Fig. 118 is called a double-acting cylinder. This is because
the steam acts on both sides of the piston. Single-acting cylinders are cylinders in which
the steam expands on only one side of the piston. In the single-acting engines the D valve
is modified.

