Burns, too proud and honest not to work, continued through all reverses to sing of poverty
with a light, defiant note. Beranger waited till he was himself beyond the reach of want before
writing the OLD VAGABOND or JACQUES. Samuel Johnson, although he was very sorry to be poor,
'was a great arguer for the advantages of poverty' in his ill days. Thus it is that brave men
carry their crosses, and smile with the fox burrowing in their vitals.

*****

Now, what I like so much in France is the clear, unflinching recognition by everybody of his
own luck. They all know on which side their bread is buttered, and take a pleasure in showing
it to others, which is surely the better part of religion. And they scorn to make a poor mouth
over their poverty, which I take to be the better part of manliness.

*****

If people knew what an inspiriting thing it is to hear a man boasting, so long as he boasts
of what he really has, I believe they would do it more freely and with a better grace.

*****

A girl at school in France began to describe one of our regiments on parade to her French school-mates,
and as she went on she told me the recollection grew so vivid, she became so proud to be the
countrywoman of such soldiers, and so sorry to be in another country, that her voice failed
her and she burst into tears. I have never forgotten that girl, and I think she very nearly
deserves a statue. To call her a young lady, with all its many associations, would be to offer
her an insult. She may rest assured of one thing, although she never should marry a heroic
general, never see any great or immediate result of her life, she will not have lived in vain
for her native land.

*****

As I went, I was thinking of Smethurst with admiration; a look into that man's mind was like
a retrospect over the smiling champaign of his past life, and very different from the Sinai-gorges
up which one looks for a terrified moment into the dark souls of many good, many wise, and
many prudent men. I cannot be very grateful to such men for their excellence, and wisdom, and
prudence. I find myself facing as stoutly as I can a hard, combative existence, full of doubt,
difficulties, defeats, disappointments, and dangers, quite a hard enough life without their
dark countenances at my elbow, so that what I want is a happy-minded Smethurst placed here
and there at ugly corners of my life's wayside, preaching his gospel of quiet and contentment.

*****

There is a certain critic, not indeed of execution but of matter, whom I dare be known to set
before the best: a certain low-browed, hairy gentleman, at first a percher in the fork of trees,
next (as they relate) a dweller in caves, and whom I think I see squatting in cave-mouths,
of a pleasant afternoon, to munch his berries--his wife, that accomplished lady, squatting
by his side: his name I never heard, but he is often described as Probably Arboreal, which
may serve for recognition. Each has his own tree of ancestors, but at the top of all sits Probably
Arboreal; in all our veins there run some minims of his old, wild, tree-top blood; our civilised
nerves still tingle with his rude terrors and pleasures; and to that which would have moved
our common ancestors, all must obediently thrill.

*****

This is an age when genealogy has taken a new lease of life, and become for the first time
a human science; so that we no longer study it in quest of the Guaith Voeths, but to trace
out some of the secrets of descent and destiny; and as we study, we think less of Sir Bernard
Burke and more of Mr. Galton. Not only do our character and talents lie upon the anvil and
receive their temper during generations; but the very plot of our life's story unfolds itself
on a scale of centuries, and the biography of the man is only an episode in the epic of the family.

*****

But our ancestral adventures are beyond even the arithmetic of fancy; and it is the chief recommendation
of long pedigrees, that we can follow backward the careers of our HOMUNCULUS and be reminded
of our antenatal lives. Our conscious years are but a moment in the history of the elements
that build us.

*****

What is mine, then, and what am I? If not a curve in this poor body of mine (which you love,
and for the sake of which you dotingly dream that you love me), not a gesture that I can frame,
not a tone of my voice, not a look from my eyes, no, not even now when I speak to him I love,
but has belonged to others? Others, ages dead, have wooed other men with my eyes; other men
have heard the pleadings of the same voice that now sounds in your ears. The hands of the dead
are in my bosom; they move me, they pluck me, they guide me; I am a puppet at their command;
and I but re-inform features and attributes that have long been laid aside from evil in the
quiet of the grave. Is it me you love, friend? or the race that made me? The girl who does
not know and cannot answer for the least portion of herself? or the stream of which she is
a transitory eddy, the tree of which she is the passing fruit? The race exists; it is old,
it is ever young, it carries its eternal destiny in its bosom; upon it, like waves upon the
sea, individual succeeds individual, mocked with a semblance of self-control, but they are
nothing. We speak of the soul, but the soul is in the race.

*****

The future is nothing; but the past is myself, my own history, the seed of my present thoughts,
the mould of my present disposition. It is not in vain that I return to the nothings of my
childhood; for every one of them has left some stamp upon me or put some fetter on my boasted
free-will. In the past is my present fate; and in the past also is my real life.

*****

For as the race of man, after centuries of civilisation, still keeps some traits of their barbarian
fathers, so man the individual is not altogether quit of youth, when he is already old and
honoured, and Lord Chancellor of England. We advance in years somewhat in the manner of an
invading army in a barren land; the age that we have reached, as the phrase goes, we but hold
with an outpost, and still keep open our communications with the extreme rear and first beginnings
of the march. There is our true base; that is not only the beginning, but the perennial spring
of our faculties; and grandfather William can retire upon occasion into the green enchanted
forest of his boyhood.

*****

The regret we have for our childhood is not wholly justifiable: so much a man may lay down
without fear of public ribaldry; for although we shake our heads over the change, we are not
unconscious of the manifold advantages of our new state. What we lose in generous impulse we
more than gain in the habit of generously watching others; and the capacity to enjoy Shakespeare
may balance a lost appetite for playing at soldiers.

*****

If a man lives to any considerable age, it cannot be denied that he laments his imprudences,
but I notice he often laments his youth a deal more bitterly and with a more genuine intonation.

*****

There is something irreverent in the speculation, but perhaps the want of power has more to
do with wise resolutions of age than we are always willing to admit.

*****

People may lay down their lives with cheerfulness in the sure expectation of a blessed immortality;
but that is a different affair from giving up youth, with all its admirable pleasures, in the
hope of a better quality of gruel in a more than problematical, nay, more than improbable, old age.

*****

Childhood must pass away, and then youth, as surely as, age approaches. The true wisdom is
to be always seasonable, and to change with a good grace in changing circumstances. To love
playthings well as a child, to lead an adventurous and honourable youth, and to settle when
the time arrives, into a green and smiling age, is to be a good artist in life and deserve
well of yourself and your neighbour.

*****

It is not possible to keep the mind in a state of accurate balance and blank; and even if you
could do so, instead of coming ultimately to the right conclusion, you would be very apt to
remain in a state of balance and blank to perpetuity. Even in quite intermediate stages, a
dash of enthusiasm is not a thing to be ashamed of in the retrospect: if St. Paul had not been
a very zealous Pharisee, he would have been a colder Christian. For my part, I look back to
the time when I was a Socialist with something like regret. I have convinced myself (for the
moment) that we had better leave these great changes to what we call blind forces; their blindness
being so much more perspicacious than the little, peering, partial eyesight of men. I seem
to see that my own scheme would not answer; and all the other schemes I ever heard propounded
would depress some elements of goodness just as much as they encouraged others. Now I know
that in thus turning Conservative with years, I am going through the normal cycle of change
and travelling in the common orbit of men's opinions.

Those who go the devil in youth, with anything like a fair chance, were probably little worth
saving from the first; they must have been feeble fellows--creatures made of putty and pack-thread,
without steel or fire, anger or true joyfulness, in their composition; we may sympathise with
their parents, but there is not much cause to go into mourning for themselves; for to be quite
honest, the weak brother is the worst of mankind.

*****

The follies of youth have a basis in sound reason, just as much as the embarrassing questions
put by babes and sucklings. Their most anti-social acts indicate the defects of our society.
When the torrent sweeps the man against a boulder, you must expect him to scream, and you need
not be surprised if the scream is sometimes a theory. ... But it is better to be a fool than
to be dead. It is better to emit a scream in the shape of a theory than to be entirely insensible
to the jars and incongruities of life and take everything as it comes in a forlorn stupidity.
Some people swallow the universe like a pill; they travel on through the world, like smiling
images pushed from behind. For God's sake give me the young man who has brains enough to make
a fool of himself! As for the others, the irony of facts shall take it out of their hands,
and make fools of them in downright earnest, ere the farce be over. There shall be such a mopping
and a mowing at the last day, and such blushing and confusion of countenance for all those
who have been wise in their own esteem, and have not learnt the rough lessons that youth hands
on to age. If we are indeed here to perfect and complete our own natures, and grow larger,
stronger, and more sympathetic against some nobler career in the future, we had all best bestir
ourselves to the utmost while we have the time. To equip a dull, respectable person with wings
would be but to make a parody of an angel.

*****

A young man feels himself one too many in the world; his is a painful situation; he has no
calling; no obvious utility; no ties but to his parents, and these he is sure to disregard.
I do not think that a proper allowance has been made for this true cause of suffering in youth;
but by the mere fact of a prolonged existence, we outgrow either the fact or else the feeling.
Either we become so callously accustomed to our own useless figure in the world, or else--and
this, thank God, in the majority of cases--we so collect about us the interest or the love
of our fellows, so multiply our effective part in the affairs of life, that we need to entertain
no longer the question of our right to be.

*****

When the old man waggles his head and says, 'Ah, so I thought when I was your age,' he has
proved the youth's case. Doubtless, whether from growth of experience or decline of animal
heat, he thinks so no longer; but he thought so while he was young; and all men have thought
so while they were young, since there was dew in the morning or hawthorn in May; and here is
another young man adding his vote to those of previous generations and riveting another link
to the chain of testimony. It is as natural and as right for a young man to be imprudent and
exaggerated, to live in swoops and circles, and beat about his cage like any other wild thing
newly captured, as it is for old men to turn grey, or mothers to love their offspring, or heroes
to die for something worthier than their lives.

*****

Youth is the time to go flashing from one end of the world to the other both in mind and body;
to try the manners of different nations; to hear the chimes at midnight; to see sunrise in
town and country; to be converted at a revival; to circumnavigate the metaphysics, write halting
verses, run a mile to see a fire, and wait all day long in the theatre to applaud HERNANI.
There is some meaning in the old theory about wild oats; and a man who has not had his green-sickness
and got done with it for good is as little to be depended on as an unvaccinated infant.

*****

When we grow elderly, how the room brightens and begins to look as it ought to look, on the
entrance of youth, grace, health and comeliness! You do not want them for yourself, perhaps
not even for your son, but you look on smiling; and when you recall their images--again it
is with a smile. I defy you to see or think of them and not smile with an infinite and intimate
but quite impersonal pleasure.

*****

To speak truth there must be moral equality or else no respect; and hence between parent and
child intercourse is apt to degenerate into a verbal fencing-bout, and misapprehensions to
become engrained. And there is another side to this, for the parent begins with an imperfect
notion of the child's character, formed in early years or during the equinoctial gales of youth;
to this he adheres, noting only the facts which suit with his pre-conception; and wherever
a person fancies himself unjustly judged, he at once and finally gives up the effort to speak
truth.

*****

So, as we grow old, a sort of equable jog-trot of feeling is substituted for the violent ups
and downs of passion and disgust; the same influence that restrains our hopes quiets our apprehensions;
if the pleasures are less intense, the troubles are milder and more tolerable; and in a word,
this period for which we are asked to hoard up everything as for a time of famine, is, in its
own right, the richest, easiest, and happiest of life. Nay, by managing its own work and following
its own happy inspiration, youth is doing the best it can to endow the leisure of age. A full,
busy youth is your only prelude to a self-contained and independent age; and the muff inevitably
develops into a bore.

*****

To know what you like is the beginning of wisdom and of old age. Youth is wholly experimental.
The essence and charm of that unquiet and delightful epoch is ignorance of self as well as
ignorance of life.

*****

The schoolboy has a keen sense of humour. Heroes he learns to understand and to admire in books;
but he is not forward to recognise the heroic under the traits of any contemporary.

*****

Discredited as they are in practice, the cowardly proverbs hold their own in theory; and it
is another instance of the same spirit, that the opinions of old men about life have been accepted
as final. All sorts of allowances are made for the illusions of youth; and none, or almost
none, for the disenchantments of age. It is held to be a good taunt, and somehow or other to
clinch the question logically, when an old gentleman waggles his head and says: 'Ah, so I thought
when I was your age.' It is not thought an answer at all, if the young man retorts: My venerable
sir, so I shall most probably think when I am yours.' And yet the one is as good as the other:
pass for pass, tit for tat, a Roland for an Oliver.

*****

What shall we be when we grow really old? Of yore, a man was thought to lay on restrictions
and acquire new deadweight of mournful experience with every year, till he looked back on his
youth as the very summer of impulse and freedom.

*****

And it may be worth while to add that these clouds rolled away in their season, and that all
clouds roll away at last, and the troubles of youth in particular are things but of a moment.

*****

Through what little channels, by what hints and premonitions, the consciousness of the man's
art dawns first upon the child, it should be not only interesting but instructive to inquire.
A matter of curiosity to-day, it will become the ground of science to-morrow. From the mind
of childhood there is more history and more philosophy to be fished up than from all the printed
volumes in a library.

*****

I could not finish THE PIRATE when I was a child, I have never finished it yet; PEVERIL OF
THE PEAK dropped half way through from my schoolboy hands, and though I have since waded to
an end in a kind of wager with myself, the exercise was quite without enjoyment. There is something
disquieting in the considerations. I still think the visit to Ponto's the best part of the
BOOK OF SNOBS: does that mean that I was right when I was a child, or does it mean that I have
never grown since then, that the child is not the man's father, but the man? and that I came
into the world with all my faculties complete, and have only learned sinsyne to be more tolerant
of boredom?

*****

The child thinks much in images, words are very live to him, phrases that imply a picture eloquent
beyond their value.

*****

Somehow my playmate had vanished, or is out of the story, as the sagas say, but I was sent
into the village on an errand; and, taking a book of fairy tales, went down alone through a
fir-wood, reading as I walked. How often since then has it befallen me to be happy even so;
but that was the first time: the shock of that pleasure I have never since forgot, and if my
mind serves me to the last, I never shall; for it was then I knew I loved reading.

*****

The remainder of my childish recollections are all of the matter that was read to me, and not
of any manner in the words. If these pleased me, it was unconsciously; I listened for news
of the great vacant world upon whose edge I stood; I listened for delightful plots that I might
re-enact in play, and romantic scenes and circumstances that I might call up before me, with
closed eyes, when I was tired of Scotland, and home, and that weary prison of the sick-chamber
in which I lay so long in durance.

*****

I rose and lifted a corner of the blind. Over the black belt of the garden I saw the long line
of Queen Street, with here and there a lighted window. How often before had my nurse lifted
me out of bed and pointed them out to me, while we wondered together if, there also, there
were children that could not sleep, and if these lighted oblongs were signs of those that waited
like us for the morning.

*****

There never was a child but has hunted gold, and been a pirate, and a military commander, and
a bandit of the mountains; but has fought, and suffered shipwreck and prison, and imbrued its
little hands in gore, and gallantly retrieved the lost battle, and triumphantly protected innocence
and beauty.

*****

None more than children are concerned for beauty, and, above all, for beauty in the old.

*****

So in youth, like Moses from the mountain, we have sights of that House Beautiful of art which
we shall never enter. They are dreams and unsubstantial; visions of style that repose upon
no base of human meaning; the last heart-throb of that excited amateur who has to die in all
of us before the artist can be born. But they come in such a rainbow of glory that all subsequent
achievement appears dull and earthly in comparison. We are all artists; almost all in the age
of illusion, cultivating an imaginary genius, and walking to the strains of some deceiving
Ariel; small wonder, indeed, if we were happy! But art, of whatever nature, is a kind of mistress;
and though these dreams of youth fall by their own baselessness, others succeed, grave and
more substantial; the symptoms change, the amiable malady endures; and still at an equal distance,
the House Beautiful shines upon its hill-top.

*****

Children, for instance, are able enough to see, but they have no great faculty for looking;
they do not use their eyes for the pleasure of using them, but for by-ends of their own; and
the things I call to mind seeing most vividly were not beautiful in themselves, but merely
interesting or enviable to me, as I thought they might be turned to practical account in play.

*****

The true parallel for play is not to be found, of course, in conscious art, which, though it
be derived from play, is itself an abstract, impersonal thing, and depends largely upon philosophical
interests beyond the scope of childhood. It is when we make castles in the air and personate
the leading character in our own romances, that we return to the spirit of our first years.
Only, there are several reasons why the spirit is no longer so agreeable to indulge. Nowadays,
when we admit this personal element into our divagations, we are apt to stir up uncomfortable
and sorrowful memories, and remind ourselves sharply of old wounds..Alas! when we betake ourselves
to our intellectual form of play, sitting quietly by the fire or lying prone in bed, we rouse
many hot feelings for which we can find no outlet. Substitutes are not acceptable to the mature
mind, which desires the thing itself; and even to rehearse a triumphant dialogue with one's
enemy, although it is perhaps the most satisfactory piece of play still left within our reach,
is not entirely satisfying, and is even apt to lead to a visit and an interview which may be
the reverse of triumphant after all.

Whatever we are to expect at the hands of children, it should not be any peddling exactitude
about matters of fact. They walk in a vain show, and among mists and rainbows; they are passionate
after dreams and unconcerned about realities; speech is a difficult art not wholly learned;
and there is nothing in their own tastes or purposes to teach them what we mean by abstract
truthfulness. When a bad writer is inexact, even if he can look back on half a century of years,
we charge him with incompetence and not, with dishonesty. And why not extend the same allowance
to imperfect speakers? Let a stockbroker be dead stupid about poetry, or a poet inexact in
the details of business, and we excuse them heartily from blame. But show us a miserable, unbreeched,
human entity, whose whole profession it is to take a tub for a fortified town and a shaving-brush
for the deadly stiletto, and who passes three-fourths of his time in a dream and the rest in
open self-deception, and we expect him to be as nice upon a matter of fact as a scientific
expert bearing evidence. Upon my heart, I think it less than decent: you do not consider how
little the child sees, or how swift he is to weave what he has seen into bewildering fiction;
and that he cares no more for what you call truth, than you for a gingerbread dragoon. It would
be easy to leave them in their native cloudland, where they figure so prettily--pretty like
flowers and innocent like dogs. They will come out of their gardens soon enough, and have to
go into offices and the witness-box. Spare them yet a while, O conscientious parent! Let them
doze among their playthings yet a little! for who knows what a rough, warfaring existence lies
before them in the future?

*****

As we go catching and catching at this or that corner of knowledge, now getting a foresight
of generous possibilities, now chilled with a glimpse of prudence, we may compare the headlong
course of our years to a swift torrent in which a man is carried away; now he is dashed against
a boulder, now he grapples for a moment to a trailing spray; at the end, he is hurled out and
overwhelmed in a dark and bottomless ocean. We have no more than glimpses and touches; we are
torn away from our theories; we are spun round and round and shown this or the other view of
life, until only fools or knaves can hold to their opinions.... All our attributes are modified
or changed; and it will be a poor account of us if our views do not modify and change in a
proportion. To hold the same views at forty as we held at twenty is to have been stupefied
for a score of years, and take rank, not as a prophet, but as an unteachable brat, well birched
and none the wiser. It is as if a ship captain should sail to India from the Port of London;
and having brought a chart of the Thames on deck at his first setting out, should obstinately
use no other for the whole voyage.

*****

It is good to have been young in youth and, as years go on, to grow older. Many are already
old before they are through their teens; but to travel deliberately through one's ages is to
get the heart out of a liberal education. Times change, opinions vary to their opposite, and
still this world appears a brave gymnasium, full of sea-bathing, and horse exercise, and bracing,
manly virtues; and what can be more encouraging than to find the friend who was welcome at
one age, still welcome at another? Our affections and beliefs are wiser than we; the best that
is in us is better than we can understand; for it is grounded beyond experience, and guides
us, blindfold but safe, from one age on to another.

*****

But faces have a trick of growing more and more spiritualised and abstract in the memory, until
nothing remains of them but a look, a haunting expression; just that secret quality in a face
that is apt to slip out somehow under the cunningest painter's touch, and leave the portrait
dead for the lack of it.

*****

Pitiful is the case of the blind, who cannot read the face; pitiful that of the deaf who cannot
follow the changes of the voice. And there are others also to be pitied; for there are some
of an inert, uneloquent nature, who have been denied all the symbols of communication, who
have neither a lively play of facial expression, nor speaking gestures, nor a responsive voice,
nor yet the gift of frank, explanatory speech: people truly made of clay, people tied for life
into a bag which no one can undo. They are poorer than the gipsy, for their heart can speak
no language under heaven.

*****

For my part, I can see few things more desirable, after the possession of such radical qualities
as honour and humour and pathos, than to have a lively and not a stolid countenance; to have
looks to correspond with every feeling; to be elegant arid delightful in person, so that we
shall please even in the intervals of active pleasing, and may never discredit speech with
uncouth manners or become unconsciously our own burlesques. But of all unfortunates there is
one creature (for I will not call him man) conspicuous in misfortune. This is he who has forfeited
his birthright of expression, who has cultivated artful intonations, who has taught his face
tricks, like a pet monkey, and on every side perverted or cut off his means of communication
with his fellow-men. The body is a house of many windows: there we all sit, showing ourselves
and crying on the passersby to come and love us. But this fellow has filled his windows with
opaque glass, elegantly coloured. His house may be admired for its design, the crowd may pause
before the stained windows, but meanwhile the poor proprietor must lie languishing within,
uncomforted, unchangeably alone.

*****

The lads go forth pricked with the spirit of adventure and the desire to rise in Life, and
leave their homespun elders grumbling and wondering over the event. Once, at a village called
Lausanne, I met one of these disappointed parents: a drake who had fathered a wild swan and
seen it take wing and disappear. The wild swan in question was now an apothecary in Brazil.
He had flown by way of Bordeaux, and first landed in America, bare-headed and bare-footed,
and with a single halfpenny in his pocket. And now he was an apothecary! Such a wonderful thing
is an adventurous life! I thought he might as well have stayed at home; but you never can tell
wherein a man's life consists, nor in what he sets his pleasure: one to drink, another to marry,
a third to write scurrilous articles and be repeatedly caned in public, and now this fourth,
perhaps, to be an apothecary in Brazil. As for his old father, he could conceive no reason
for the lad's behaviour. 'I had always bread for him,' he said; 'he ran away to annoy me. He
loved to annoy me. He had no gratitude.' But at heart he was swelling with pride over his travelled
offspring, and he produced a letter out of his pocket, where, as he said, it was rotting, a
mere lump of paper rags, and waved it gloriously in the air. 'This comes from America,' he
cried, 'six thousand leagues away!' And the wine-shop audience looked upon it with a certain
thrill.

*****

The fame of other lands had reached them; the name of the eternal city rang in their ears;
they were not colonists, but pilgrims; they travelled towards wine and gold and sunshine, but
their hearts were set on something higher. That divine unrest, that old stinging trouble of
humanity that makes all high achievements and all miserable failures, the same that spread
wings with Icarus, the same that sent Columbus into the desolate Atlantic, inspired and supported
these barbarians on their perilous march.

*****

There is more adventure in the life of the working man who descends as a common soldier into
the battle of life, than in that of the millionaire who sits apart in an office, like Von Moltke,
and only directs the manoeuvres by telegraph. Give me to hear about the career of him who is
in the thick of the business; to whom one change of market means an empty belly, and another
a copious and savoury meal. This is not the philosophical, but the human side of economics;
it interests like a story; and the life of all who are thus situated partakes in a small way
of the charm of Robinson Crusoe; for every step is critical, and human life is presented to
you naked and verging to its lowest terms.

*****

An aspiration is a joy for ever, a possession as solid as a landed estate, a fortune which
we can never exhaust and which gives us year by year a revenue of pleasurable activity. To
have many of these is to be spiritually rich.

*****

Study and experiment, to some rare natures, is the unbroken pastime of a life. These are enviable
natures; people shut in the house by sickness often bitterly envy them; but the commoner man
cannot continue to exist upon such altitudes: his feet itch for physical adventure; his blood
boils for physical dangers, pleasures, and triumphs; his fancy, the looker after new things,
cannot continue to look for them in books and crucibles, but must seek them on the breathing
stage of life.

*****

Life goes before us, infinite in complication; attended by the most various and surprising
meteors; appealing at once to the eye, to the ear, to the mind--the seat of wonder, to the
touch--so thrillingly delicate, and to the belly--so imperious when starved. It combines and
employs in its manifestation the method and material, not of one art only, but of all the arts.
Music is but an arbitrary trifling with a few of life's majestic chords; painting is but a
shadow of its pageantry of light and colour; literature does but drily indicate that wealth
of incident, of moral obligation, of virtue, vice, action, rapture and agony, with which it
teems. To 'compete with life,' whose sun we cannot look upon, whose passions and diseases waste
and slay us--to compete with the flavour of wine, the beauty of the dawn, the scorching of
fire, the bitterness of death and separation here is, indeed, a projected escalade of heaven;
here are, indeed, labours for a Hercules in a dress coat, armed with a pen and a dictionary
to depict the passions, armed with a tube of superior flake-white to paint the portrait of
the insufferable sun. No art is true in this sense: none can 'compete with life': not even
history, built indeed of indisputable facts, but these facts robbed of their vivacity and sting;
so that even when we read of the sack of a city or the fall of an empire, we are surprised,
and justly commend the author's talent, if our pulse be quickened. And mark, for a last differentia,
that this quickening of the pulse is, in almost every case, purely agreeable; that these phantom
reproductions of experience, even at their most acute, convey decided pleasure; while experience
itself, in the cockpit of life, can torture and slay.

*****

Into how many houses would not the note of the monastery bell, dividing the day into manageable
portions, bring peace of mind and healthful activity of body! We speak of hardships, but the
true hardship is to be a dull fool, and permitted to mismanage life in our own dull and foolish
manner.

*****

Industry is, in itself and when properly chosen, delightful and profitable to the worker; and
when your toil has been a pleasure, you have not earned money merely, but money, health, delight,
and moral profit, all in one.

*****

'The cost of a thing,' says he, 'is the amount OF WHAT I WILL CALL LIFE which is required to
be exchanged for it, immediately or in the long-run.' I have been accustomed to put it to myself,
perhaps more clearly, that the price we have to pay for money is paid in liberty. Between these
two ways of it, at least, the reader will probably not fail to find a third definition of his
own; and it follows, on one or other, that a man may pay too dearly for his livelihood, by
giving, in Thoreau's terms, his whole life for it, or, in mine, bartering for it the whole
of his available liberty, and becoming a slave till death. There are two questions to be considered--the
quality of what we buy, and the price we have to pay for it. Do you want a thousand a year,
a two thousand a year, or a ten thousand a year livelihood? and can you afford the one you
want? It is a matter of taste; it is not in the least degree a question of duty, though commonly
supposed so. But there is no authority for that view anywhere. It is nowhere in the Bible.
It is true that we might do a vast amount of good if we were wealthy, but it is also highly
improbable; not many do; and the art of growing rich is not only quite distinct from that of
doing good, but the practice of the one does not at all train a man for practising the other.

*****

We may escape uncongenial toil, only to devote ourselves to that which is congenial. It is
only to transact some higher business that even Apollo dare play the truant from Admetus. We
must all work for the sake of work; we must all work, as Thoreau says again, in any 'absorbing
pursuit--it does not much matter what, so it be honest'; but the most profitable work is that
which combines into one continued effort the largest proportion of the powers and desires of
a man's nature; that into which he will plunge with ardour, and from which he will desist with
reluctance; in which he will know the weariness of fatigue, but not that of satiety; and which
will be ever fresh, pleasing and stimulating to his taste. Such work holds a man together,
braced at all points; it does not suffer him to doze or wander; it keeps him actively conscious
of himself, yet raised among superior interests; it gives him the profit of industry with the
pleasures of a pastime. This is what his art should be to the true artist, and that to a degree
unknown in other and less intimate pursuits. For other professions stand apart from the human
business of life; but an art has the seat at the centre of the artist's doings and sufferings,
deals directly with his experiences, teaches him the lessons of his own fortunes and mishaps,
and becomes a part of his biography.

*****

     Farewell fair day and fading light!
     The clay-born here, with westward sight,
     Marks the huge sun now downward soar.
     Farewell.  We twain shall meet no more.

     Farewell.  I watch with bursting sigh
     My late contemned occasion die.
     I linger useless in my tent:
     Farewell, fair day, so foully spent!

     Farewell, fair day.  If any God
     At all consider this poor clod,
     He who the fair occasion sent
     Prepared and placed the impediment.

     Let him diviner vengeance take--
     Give me to sleep, give me to wake
     Girded and shod, and bid me play
     The hero in the coming day!

*****

The fact is, fame may be a forethought and an afterthought, but it is too abstract an idea
to move people greatly in moments of swift and momentous decision. It is from something more
immediate, some determination of blood to the head, some trick of the fancy, that the breach
is stormed or the bold word spoken. I am sure a fellow shooting an ugly weir in a canoe has
exactly as much thought about fame as most commanders going into battle; and yet the action,
fall out how it will, is not one of those the muse delights to celebrate. Indeed, it is difficult
to see why the fellow does a thing so nameless and yet so formidable to look at, unless on
the theory that he likes it.

*****

It is but a lying cant that would represent the merchant and the banker as people disinterestedly
toiling for mankind, and then most useful when absorbed in their transactions; for the man
is more important than his services.

*****

It was my custom, as the hours dragged on, to repeat the question, 'When will the carts come
in?' and repeat it again and again until at last those sounds arose in the street that I have
heard once more this morning. The road before our house is a great thoroughfare for early carts.
I know not, and I never have known, what they carry, whence they come, or whither they go.
But I know that, long ere dawn, and for hours together, they stream continuously past, with
the same rolling and jerking of wheels, and the same clink of horses' feet. It was not for
nothing that they made the burthen of my wishes all night through. They are really the first
throbbings of life, the harbingers of day; and it pleases you as much to hear them as it must
please a shipwrecked seaman once again to grasp a hand of flesh and blood after years of miserable
solitude. They have the freshness of the daylight life about them. You can hear the carters
cracking their whips and crying hoarsely to their horses or to one another; and sometimes even
a peal of healthy, harsh horse-laughter comes up to you through the darkness. There is now
an end to mystery and fear. Like the knocking at the door in MACBETH, or the cry of the watchman
in the TOUR DE NESLE, they show that the horrible caesura is over, and the nightmares have
fled away, because the day is breaking and the ordinary life of men is beginning to bestir
itself among the streets.

*****

