Thirty years ago Sitka was what I have attempted to describe above. To-day how different! Passing
its barracks at the foot of Katalan's Rock, one sees a handful of marines looking decidedly
bored if off duty. The steps that lead up to the steep incline of the rock to the castle terrace
are fast falling to decay. Weeds and rank grass trail over them and cover the whole top of
the rock. The castle has been dismantled. The walls will stand until they are blown up or torn
down, but all traces of the original ornamentation of the interior have disappeared. The carved
balustrades, the curious locks, knobs, hinges, chandeliers, and fragments of the wainscoting,
have been borne away by enterprising curio hunters. There was positively nothing left for me
to take.

One may still see the chamber occupied by Secretary Seward, who closed the bargain with the
Russian Government at $7,200,000, cash down. Lady Franklin occupied that chamber when she was
scouring these waters in the fearless and indefatigable, but fruitless, search for the relics
of the lost Sir John. One handsome apartment has been partially restored and suitably furnished
for the use of the United States District Attorney. Two rooms on the groundfloor are occupied
by the signal officers; but the rest of the building is in a shameful condition, and only its
traditions remain to make it an object of interest to every stranger guest.

It is said that twice in the year, at the dead hour of the night, the ghost of a bride wanders
sorrowfully from room to room. She was the daughter of one of the old governors--a stern parent,
who forced her into a marriage without love. On the bridal eve, while all the guests were assembled,
and the bride, in wedding garments, was the centre of attraction, she suddenly disappeared.
After a long search her body was found in one of the apartments of the castle, but life was
extinct. At Eastertide the shade of this sad body makes the round of the deserted halls, and
in passing leaves after it a faint odor of wild roses.

The basement is half filled with old rubbish. I found rooms where an amateur minstrel entertainment
had been given. Rude lettering upon the walls recorded the fact in lampblack, and a monster
hand pointed with index finger to its temporary bar. Burnt-cork débris was scattered about,
and there were "old soldiers" enough on the premises to have quite staggered a moralist. The
Muscovite reign is over. The Princess is in her grave on the hill yonder,--a grave that was
forgotten for a time and lost in the jungle that has overgrown the old Russian cemetery. The
Indians mutilated that tomb; but Lieutenant Gilman, in charge of the marines attached to the
Adams, restored it; and he, with his men, did much toward preserving Sitka from going to the dogs.

Gone are the good old days, but the Americanized Sitka does not propose to be behind the times.
I discovered a theatre. It was in one of the original Russian houses, doomed to last forever--a
long, narrow hall, with a stage at the upper end of it. A few scenes, evidently painted on
the spot and in dire distress; a drop-curtain depicting an utterly impracticable roseate ice-gorge
in the ideal Alaska, and four footlights, constituted the sum total of the properties. The
stage was six feet deep, about ten feet broad, and the "flies" hung like "bangs" above the
foreheads of the players. In the next room, convenient in case of a panic, was the Sitka fire
department, consisting of a machine of one-man-power, which a small boy might work without
endangering anybody or anything.

Suburban Sitka is sweet and sad. One passes on the way to the wildwood, where everybody goes
as often as may be,--a so-called "blarney stone." Many a fellow has chipped away at that stone
while he chatted with his girl--I suppose that is where the blarney comes in,--and left his
name or initials for a sacred memory. There are dull old Russian hieroglyphs there likewise.
Love is alike in all languages, you know. The truth about the stone is merely this: it is a
big soft stone by the sea, and of just the right height to rest a weary pilgrim. There old
Baranoff, the first governor, used to sit of a summer afternoon and sip his Russian brandy
until he was as senseless as the stone beneath him; and then he was carried in state up to
the colonial castle and suffered to sober off. He was pleased Royal
on the goings on earth, as people were running and were looking to protect themselves, as the birds
were hidden and how the trees bent under the weight of the crackling Rain. And more and more
he let it rain, not in small drops, no, in crushing Fonts, so that the streams and rivers the amount
of water were unable to grasp and over the The banks were. All the land was flooded, trees
uprooted, torn away from the dams and Bergen fell down in the water thundering cascades, all
got in their way Arcing tearing with it. Only a lone rock stood quietly and firmly, he could the raging
storm to have nothing to be proud of the main sticking close to the cloud up and Steinhauer Cloud
even thought a mocking laughter heard. This enraged him even more and in extreme He sent a
few flashes of anger on the rocks and poured over him the rest of its water. But nothing helped,
and the rock shook and did not leave and had finally exhausted the cloud her fury set.

"So I will be a rock," was his wish now and then cried the voice Fulfillment.

Now

he was the rock, stood proud and confident and looked forward to its unlimited Power. could
not the rays of the sun, not the pouring rain it harm.

Now Steinhauer thought of his goal to reach and the most powerful man on earth to be; for
no one could harm him or to move it from its place.

No one!

Really no one?

The joy did not last long; one morning he heard banging and scratching at its base and when
he looked down, he saw a tiny man with a wedge and hammer armed Piece
by piece from the rock strike.

"If this continues," he growled, "is nothing left of me.

If you think it is possible ?

Keep What all the angry elements are unable to do so the little boy from a People. That should
not be, since I'd rather be that man. "

"So, is what you were previously," came the voice of the mountain
spirit.

And the rock was back to Steinhauer, who from early morning
until late at night with difficulty the stones from the rock broke
off and was satisfied and happy with what he had.

He was cured of
his wishes and had learned to see that in every class and every Professions
to do anything is left over, because there is nothing perfect in this
world. Once in awhile a plume of spray was blown over the bow, and the delicate
stomach recoiled upon itself suggestively; but the deliciousness of the air in the open sea
and the brevity of the cruise--we were but five or six hours outside--kept us in a state of
intense delight. Presently we ran back into the maze of fiords and land-locked lakes, and resumed
the same old round of daily and nightly experiences.

Juneau, Douglas Island, Fort Wrangell, and several fishing stations were revisited. They seemed
a little stale to us, and we were inclined to snub them slightly. Of course we thought we knew
it all--most of us knew as much as we cared to know; and so we strolled leisurely about the
solemn little settlements, and, no doubt, but poorly succeeded in disguising the superior air
which distinguishes the new arrival in a strange land. It is but a step from a state of absolute
greenness on one's arrival at a new port to a blasé languor, wherein nothing can touch one
further; and the step is easily and usually taken inside of a week. May the old settlers forgive
us our idiocy!

There was a rainy afternoon at Fort Wrangell,--a very proper background, for the place is dismal
to a degree. An old stern-wheel steamboat, beached in the edge of the village, was used as
a hotel during the decline of the gold fever; but while the fever was at its height the boat
is said to have cleared $135,000 per season. The coolie has bored into its hollow shell and
washes there, clad in a semi-Boyton suit of waterproof.

I made my way through the dense drizzle to the Indian village at the far end of the town. The
untrodden streets are grass-grown; and a number of the little houses, gray with weather stains,
are deserted and falling to decay. Reaching a point of land that ran out and lost itself in
mist, I found a few Indians smoking and steaming, as they sat in the damp sand by their canoes.

A long footbridge spans a strip of tide land. I ventured to cross it, though it looked as if
it would blow away in the first gust of wind. It was a long, long bridge, about broad enough
for a single passenger; yet I was met in the middle of it by a well-blanketed squaw, bound
inland. It was a question in my mind whether it were better to run and leap lightly over her,
since we must pass on a single rail, or to lie down and allow her to climb over me. O happy
inspiration! In the mist and the rain, in the midst of that airy path, high above the mud flats,
and with the sullen tide slowly sweeping in from the gray wastes beyond the capes, I seized
my partner convulsively, and with our toes together we swung as on a pivot and went our ways
rejoicing.

The bridge led to the door of a chief's house, and the door stood open. It was a large, square
house, of one room only, and with the floor sunk to the depth of three feet in the centre.
It was like looking into a dry swimming bath. A step, or terrace, on the four sides of the
room made the descent easy, and I descended. The chief, in a cast-off military jacket, gave
me welcome with a mouthful of low gutterals. I found a good stove in the lodge and several
comfortable-looking beds, with chintz curtains and an Oriental superabundance of pillows. A
few photographs in cheap frames adorned the walls; a few flaming chromos--Crucifixions and
the like--hung there, along with fathoms of fishnet, clusters of fish-hooks, paddles, kitchen
furniture, wearing apparel, and a blunderbuss or two. Four huge totem poles, or ponderous carvings,
supported the heavy beams of the roof in the manner of caryatides. These figures, half veiled
in shadow, were most impressive, and gave a kind of Egyptian solemnity to the dimly lighted
apartment.

The chief was not alone. His man Friday was with him, and together we sat and smoked in a silence
that was almost suffocating. It fairly snapped once or twice, it was so dense; and then we
three exchanged grave smiles and puffed away in great contentment. The interview was brought
to a sudden close by the chief's making me a very earnest offer of $6 for my much-admired gum
ulster, and I refusing it with scorn--for it was still raining. So we parted coldly, and I
once more walked the giddy bridge with fear and trembling; for I am not a somnambulist, who
alone might perform there with impunity.

It was a bad day for curios. The town had been sacked on the voyage up; yet I prowled in these
quarters, where one would least expect to find treasure, inasmuch as it is mostly found just
there. Presently the most hideous of faces was turned up at me from the threshold of a humble
lodge. It was of a dead green color, with blood trimmings; the nose beaked like a parrot's,
the mouth a gaping crescent; the eyeless sockets seemed to sparkle and blink with inner eyes
set in the back of the skull; murderous scalp locks streamed over the ill-shapen brow; and
from the depths of this monstrosity some one, or something, said, "Boo!" I sprang backward,
only to hear the gurgle of baby laughter, and see the wee face of a half-Indian cherub peering
from behind the mask. Well, that mask is mine now; and whenever I look at it I think of the
falling dusk in Fort Wrangell, and of the child on all-fours who startled me on my return from
the chief's house beyond the bridge, and who cried as if her little heart would break when
I paid for her plaything and cruelly bore it away.

Some of the happiest hours of the voyage were the "wee sma'" ones, when I lounged about the
deserted deck with Captain George, the pilot. A gentleman of vast experience and great reserve,
for years he has haunted that archipelago; he knows it in the dark, and it was his nightly
duty to pace the deck while the ship was almost as still as death. He has heard the great singers
of the past, the queens of song whose voices were long since hushed. We talked of these in
the vast silence of the Alaskan night, and of the literature of the sea, and especially of
that solitary northwestern sea, while we picked our way among the unpeopled islands that crowded
all about us.

On such a night, while we were chatting in low voices as we leaned over the quarter-rail, and
the few figures that still haunted the deck were like veritable ghosts, Captain George seized
me by the arm and exclaimed: "Look there!" I looked up into the northern sky. There was not
a cloud visible in all that wide expanse, but something more filmy than a cloud floated like
a banner among the stars. It might almost have been a cobweb stretched from star to star--each
strand woven from a star beam,--but it was ever changing in form and color. Now it was scarf-like,
fluttering and waving in a gentle breeze; and now it hung motionless--a deep fringe of lace
gathered in ample folds. Anon it opened suddenly from the horizon, and spread in panels like
a fan that filled the heavens. As it opened and shut and swayed to and fro as if it were a
fan in motion, it assumed in turn all the colors of the rainbow, but with a delicacy of tint
and texture even beyond that of the rainbow. Sometimes it was like a series of transparencies--shadow
pictures thrown upon the screen of heaven, lit by a light beyond it--the mysterious light we
know not of. That is what the pilot and I saw while most of the passengers were sleeping. It
was the veritable aurora borealis, and that alone were worth the trip to Alaska.

One day we came to Fort Tongass--a port of entry, and our last port in the great, lone land--for
all the way down through the British possessions we touch no land until we reach Victoria or
Nanaimo. Tongass was once a military post, and now has the unmistakable air of a desert island.
Some of us were not at all eager to go on shore. This was gone, stood in their place even large house, furnished
with everything needed for a carefree, comfortable good life was.

Now he saw that actually had to live in the rocks a good spirit that is his wish and I have met.

Very
pleased and very happy he threw his hand tools aside and went into
the house.

A good food was ready, as was a warm bath ready, not lack good clothes and soft cushion.

His wish was fulfilled and now he gave himself entirely to the good
life that he wished had.

Soon he was his former occupation before as a bad dream and he often wondered how he had so
long can be satisfied.

But how is it so and how the saying goes: "At a desire to follow more" or "who Has power wants
"greater power, so it was with the Steinhauer.

Once he was sitting on a hot summer day, fanning themselves on the porch of his house when was
carried past on a litter a prince, a number of servants walked right and left of the litter, they carried
large, beautiful subjects with which they fanning the Prince cooling. A large entourage with him
and all the people threw themselves on the ground and saluted in
this As the Prince.

Then was the sullen and Steinhauer said, "Yes, the prince is very
well who does not need to Foot to go, need not personally zuzufächeln
cooling and all the world bows before him.

If it were, I would also like to be such a prince! "

No sooner had he said this, there came the voice again: "You have
desired, So be it!"

Now he was a prince. Gone was the nice little
house, it was a magnificent palace at the site, with many servants
were running hither and thither, and came to each of his commands. I know not where
the Indians had gone, but they were not there--save a sick squaw or two. Probably, being fishermen,
the tribe had gone out with their canoes, and were now busy with the spoils somewhere among
the thousand passages of the archipelago.

The totem poles at Tongass are richly carved, brilliantly colored, and grotesque in the extreme.
Some of the lodges were roomy but sad-looking, and with a perpetual shade hovering through
them. We found inscriptions in English--very rudely lettered--on many of the lodges and totem
poles: "In memory of" some one or another chief or notable red-man. Over one door was this
inscription: "In memory of ----, who died by his own hand." The lodge door was fastened with
a rusty padlock, and the place looked ghoulish.

I think we were all glad to get out of Tongass, though we received our best welcome there.
At any rate, we sat on the beach and got our feet wet and our pockets full of sand waiting
for the deliberate but dead-sure boatmen to row us to the ship. When we steamed away we left
the little bride in her desert island to the serene and sacred joy of her honeymoon, hoping
that long before it had begun to wane she might return to the world; for in three brief weeks
we were beginning to lust after it. That evening we anchored in a well-wooded cove and took
on several lighter-loads of salmon casks. Captain Carroll and the best shots in the ship passed
the time in shooting at a barrel floating three hundred yards distant. So ran our little world
away, as we were homeward bound and rapidly nearing the end of the voyage.

CHAPTER XV.

Out of the Arctic.

When Captain Cook--who, with Captain Kidd, nearly monopolizes the young ladies' ideal romance
of the seas--was in these waters, he asked the natives what land it was that lay about them,
and they replied: "Alaska"--great land. It is a great land, lying loosely along the northwest
coast,--great in area, great in the magnitude and beauty of its forests and in the fruitfulness
of its many waters; great in the splendor of its ice fields; the majesty of its rivers, the
magnificence of its snow-clad peaks; great also in its possibilities, and greatest of all in
its measureless wealth of gold. Because I would rather be but for the cloud! "

"It was," he heard the voice up to drown himself.
Now, he hovered like a cloud between Earth and sun, and was happy
the sun a trick to play, caught by its rays.
The Sitkan of to-day manages to till a kitchen-garden that suffices; but his wants are few,
and then he can always fall back on canned provision if his fresh food fails.

