Wherever she went, in London or in the country, in the hills of Derbyshire, or among the rhododendrons
at Embley, she was haunted by a ghost. It was the spectre of Scutari-- the hideous vision of
the organisation of a military hospital. She would lay that phantom, or she would perish. The
whole system of the Army Medical Department, the education of the Medical Officer, the regulations
of hospital procedure ... REST? How could she rest while these things were as they were, while,
if the like necessity were to arise again, the like results would follow? And, even in peace
and at home, what was the sanitary condition of the Army? The mortality in the barracks was,
she found, nearly double the mortality in civil life. 'You might as well take 1,100 men every
year out upon Salisbury Plain and shoot them,' she said. After inspecting the hospitals at
Chatham, she smiled grimly. 'Yes, this is one more symptom of the system which, in the Crimea,
put to death 16,000 men.' Scutari had given her knowledge; and it had given her power too:
her enormous reputation was at her back-- an incalculable force. Other work, other duties,
might lie before her; but the most urgent, the most obvious of all, was to look to the health
of the Army.

One of her very first steps was to take advantage of the invitation which Queen Victoria had
sent her to the Crimea, together with the commemorative brooch. Within a few weeks of her return
she visited Balmoral, and had several interviews with both the Queen and the Prince, Consort.
'She put before us,' wrote the Prince in his diary, 'all the defects of our present military
hospital system, and the reforms that are needed.' She related 'the whole story' of her experiences
in the East; and, in addition, she managed to have some long and confidential talks with His
Royal Highness on metaphysics and religion. The impression which she created was excellent.
'Sie gefallt uns sehr,' noted the Prince, 'ist sehr bescheiden.' Her Majesty's comment was
different--'Such a HEAD! I wish we had her at the War Office.'

But Miss Nightingale was not at the War Office, and for a very simple reason: she was a woman.
Lord Panmure, however, was (though indeed the reason for that was not quite so simple); and
it was upon Lord Panmure that the issue of Miss Nightingale's efforts for reform must primarily
depend. That burly Scottish nobleman had not, in spite of his most earnest endeavours, had
a very easy time of it as Secretary of State for War. He had come into office in the middle
of the SebastopolCampaign, and had felt himself very well fitted for the position, since he
had acquired in former days an inside knowledge of the Army--as a Captain of Hussars. It was
this inside knowledge which had enabled him to inform Miss Nightingale with such authority
that 'the British soldier is not a remitting animal'. And perhaps it was this same consciousness
of a command of his subject which had impelled him to write a dispatch to Lord Raglan, blandly
informing the Commander-in-Chief in the Field just how he was neglecting his duties, and pointing
out to him that if he would only try he really might do a little better next time.

Lord Raglan's reply, calculated as it was to make its recipient sink into the earth, did not
quite have that effect upon Lord Panmure, who, whatever might have been his faults, had never
been accused of being supersensitive. However, he allowed the matter to drop; and a little
later Lord Raglan died--worn out, some people said, by work and anxiety. He was succeeded by
an excellent red-nosed old gentleman, General Simpson, whom nobody has ever heard of, and who
took Sebastopol. But Lord Panmure's relations with him were hardly more satisfactory than his
relations with Lord Raglan; for, while Lord Raglan had been too independent, poor General Simpson
erred in the opposite direction, perpetually asked advice, suffered from lumbago, doubted (his
nose growingredder and redder daily) whether he was fit for his post, and, by alternate mails,
sent in and withdrew his resignation. Then, too, both the General and the Minister suffered
acutely from that distressingly useful new invention, the electric telegraph. On one occasion
General Simpson felt obliged actually to expostulate. 'I think, my Lord,' he wrote, 'that some
telegraphic messages reach us that cannot be sent under due authority, and are perhaps unknown
to you, although under the protection of your Lordship's name.

For instance, I was called up last night, a dragoon having come express with a telegraphic
message in these words, "Lord Panmure to General Simpson--Captain Jarvis has been bitten by
a centipede. How is he now?"' General Simpson might have put up with this, though to be sure
it did seem 'rather too trifling an affair to call for a dragoon to ride a couple of miles
in the dark that he may knock up the Commander of the Army out of the very small allowance
of sleep permitted; but what was really more than he could bear was to find 'upon sending in
the morning another mounted dragoon to inquire after Captain Jarvis, four miles off, that he
never has been bitten at all, but has had a boil, from which he is fast recovering'. But Lord
Panmure had troubles of his own. His favourite nephew, Captain Dowbiggin, was at the front,
and to one of his telegrams to the Commander-in- Chief the Minister had taken occasion to append
the following carefully qualified sentence--'I recommend Dowbiggin to your notice, should you
have a vacancy, and if he is fit'. Unfortunately, in those early days, it was left to the discretion
of the telegraphist to compress the messages which passed through his hands; so that the result
was that Lord Panmure's delicate appeal reached its destination in the laconic form of 'Look
after Dowb'. The Headquarters Staff were at first extremely puzzled; they were at last extremely
amused. The story spread; and 'Look after Dowb' remained for many years the familiar formula
for describing official hints in favour of deserving nephews.

And now that all this was over, now that Sebastopol had been, somehow or another, taken; now
that peace was, somehow or another, made; now that the troubles of office might surely be expected
to be at an end at last-- here was Miss Nightingale breaking in upon the scene with her talk
about the state of the hospitals and the necessity for sanitary reform. It was most irksome;
and Lord Panmure almost began to wish that he was engaged upon some more congenial occupation--discussing,
perhaps, the constitution of the Free Church of Scotland--a question in which he was profoundly
interested. But no; duty was paramount; and he set himself, with a sigh of resignation, to
the task of doing as little of it as he possibly could.

'The Bison' his friends called him; and the name fitted both his physical demeanour and his
habit of mind. That large low head seemed to have been created for butting rather than for
anything else. There he stood, four-square and menacing in the doorway of reform; and it remained
to be seen whether, the bulky mass, upon whose solid hide even the barbed arrows of Lord Raglan's
scorn had made no mark, would prove amenable to the pressure of Miss Nightingale. Nor was he
alone in the doorway. There loomed behind him the whole phalanx of professional conservatism,
the stubborn supporters of the out-of-date, the worshippers and the victims of War Office routine.
Among these it was only natural that Dr. Andrew Smith, the head of the Army Medical Department,
should have been pre-eminent--Dr. Andrew Smith, who had assured Miss Nightingale before she
left England that 'nothing was wanted at Scutari'. Such were her opponents; but she too was
not without allies. She had gained the ear of Royalty--which was something; at any moment that
she pleased she could gain the ear of the public--which was a great deal. She had a host of
admirers and friends; and--to say nothing of her personal qualities--her knowledge, her tenacity,
her tact--she possessed, too, one advantage which then, far more even than now, carried an
immense weight-- she belonged to the highest circle of society. She moved naturally among Peers
and Cabinet Ministers--she was one of their own set; and in those days their set was a very
narrow one. What kind of attention would such persons have paid to some middle- class woman
with whom they were not acquainted, who possessed great experience of Army nursing and had
decided views upon hospital reform? They would have politely ignored her; but it was impossible
to ignore Flo Nightingale. When she spoke, they were obliged to listen; and, when they had
once begun to do that-- what might not follow? She knew her power, and she used it. She supported
her weightiest minutes with familiar witty little notes. The Bison began to look grave. It
might be difficult--it might be damned difficult--to put down one's head against the white
hand of a lady...

Of Miss Nightingale's friends, the most important was Sidney Herbert. He was a man upon whom
the good fairies seemed to have showered, as he lay in his cradle, all their most enviable
goods. Well born, handsome, rich, the master of Wilton--one of those great country-houses,
clothed with the glamour of a historic past, which are the peculiar glory of England--he possessed--
besides all these advantages: so charming, so lively, so gentle a disposition that no one who
had once come near him could ever be his enemy.

He was, in fact, a man of whom it was difficult not to say that he was a perfect English gentleman.
For his virtues were equal even to his good fortune. He was religious, deeply religious. 'I
am more and more convinced every day,' he wrote, when he had been for some years a Cabinet
Minister, 'that in politics, as in everything else, nothing can be right which is not in accordance
with the spirit of the Gospel.' No one was more unselfish; he was charitable and benevolent
to a remarkable degree; and he devoted  the whole of his life, with an unwavering conscientiousness,
to the public service. With such a character, with such opportunities, what high hopes must
have danced before him, what radiant visions of accomplished duties, of ever-increasing usefulness,
of beneficent power, of the consciousness of disinterested success! Some of those hopes and
visions were, indeed, realised; but, in the end, the career of Sidney Herbert seemed to show
that, with all their generosity, there was some gift or other-- what was it?--some essential
gift--which the good fairies had withheld, and that even the qualities of a perfect English
gentleman may be no safeguard against anguish, humiliation, and defeat.

That career would certainly have been very different if he had never known Miss Nightingale.
The alliance between them which had begun with her appointment to Scutari, which had grown
closer and closer while the war lasted, developed, after her return, into one of the most extraordinary
friendships. It was the friendship of a man and a woman intimately bound together by their
devotion to a public cause; mutual affection, of course, played a part in it, but it was an
incidental part; the whole soul of the relationship was a community of work. Perhaps out of
England such an intimacy could hardly have existed--an intimacy so utterly untinctured not
only by passion itself but by the suspicion of it. For years Sidney Herbert saw Miss Nightingale
almost daily, for long hours together, corresponding with her incessantly when they were apart;
and the tongue of scandal was silent; and one of the most devoted of her admirers was his wife.
But what made the connection still more remarkable was the way in which the parts that were
played in it were divided between the two. The man who acts, decides, and achieves; the woman
who encourages, applauds, and--from a distance--inspires: the combination is common enough;
but Miss Nightingale was neither an Aspasia nor an Egeria. In her case it is almost true to
say that the roles were reversed; the qualities of pliancy and sympathy fell to the man, those
of command and initiative to the woman.

There was one thing only which Miss Nightingale lacked in her equipment for public life; she
had not-- she never could have-- the public power and authority which belonged to the successful
politician. That power and authority Sidney Herbert possessed; that fact was obvious, and the
conclusions no less so: it was through the man that the woman must work her will. She took
hold of him, taught him, shaped him, absorbed him, dominated him through and through. He did
not resist--he did not wish to resist; his natural inclination lay along the same path as hers;
only that terrific personality swept him forward at her own fierce pace and with her own relentless
stride. Swept him--where to? Ah! Why had he ever known Miss Nightingale?  If Lord Panmure was
a bison, Sidney Herbert, no doubt, was a stag-- a comely, gallant creature springing through
the forest; but the forest is a dangerous place. One has the image of those wide eyes fascinated
suddenly by something feline, something strong; there is a pause; and then the tigress has
her claws in the quivering haunches; and then--!

Besides Sidney Herbert, she had other friends who, in a more restricted sphere, were hardly
less essential to her. If, in her condition of bodily collapse, she were to accomplish what
she was determined that she should accomplish, the attentions and the services of others would
be absolutely indispensable. Helpers and servers she must have; and accordingly there was soon
formed about her a little group of devoted disciples upon whose affections and energies she
could implicitly rely. Devoted, indeed, these disciples were, in no ordinary sense of the term;
for certainly she was no light taskmistress, and he who set out to be of use to Miss Nightingale
was apt to find, before he had gone very far, that he was in truth being made use of in good
earnest to the very limit of his endurance and his capacity. Perhaps, even beyond those limits;
why not? Was she asking of others more than she was giving herself? Let them look at her lying
there pale and breathless on the couch; could it be said that she spared herself? Why, then,
should she spare others? And it was not for her own sake that she made these claims. For her
own sake, indeed! No! They all knew it! it was for the sake of the work. And so the little
band, bound body and soul in that strange servitude, laboured on ungrudgingly.

