3. Charles the Bold.--On the death of Philip the Good, in 1467, Charles the Bold succeeded
to the duchy of Burgundy. He pursued more ardently the plan of forming a new kingdom of Burgundy,
and had even hopes of being chosen Emperor. First, however, he had to consolidate his dominions,
by making himself master of the countries which parted Burgundy from the Netherlands. With
this view he obtained Elsass in pledge from its owner, a needy son of the house of Austria,
who was never likely to redeem it. Lorraine had been inherited by Yolande, the wife of René,
Duke of Anjou and titular King of Sicily, and had passed from her to her daughter, who had
married the nearest heir in the male line, the Count of Vaudémont; but Charles the Bold unjustly
seized the dukedom, driving out the lawful heir, René de Vaudémont, son of this marriage. Louis,
meantime, was on the watch for every error of Charles, and constantly sowing dangers in his
path. Sometimes his mines exploded too soon, as when he had actually put himself into Charles's
power by visiting him at Peronne at the very moment when his emissaries had encouraged the
city of Liège to rise in revolt against their bishop, an ally of the duke; and he only bought
his freedom by profuse promises, and by aiding Charles in a most savage destruction of Liège.
But after this his caution prevailed. He gave secret support to the adherents of René de Vaudémont,
and intrigued with the Swiss, who were often at issue with the Burgundian bailiffs and soldiery
in Elsass--greedy, reckless men, from whom the men of Elsass revolted in favour of their former
Austrian lord. Meantime Edward IV. of England, Charles's brother-in-law, had planned with him
an invasion of France and division of the kingdom, and in 1475 actually crossed the sea with
a splendid host; but while Charles was prevented from joining him by the siege of Neuss, a
city in alliance with Sigismund of Austria, Louis met Edward on the bridge of Pecquigny, and
by cajolery, bribery, and accusations of Charles, contrived to persuade him to carry home his
army without striking a blow. That meeting was a curious one. A wooden barrier, like a wild
beast's cage, was erected in the middle of the bridge, through which the two kings kissed one
another. Edward was the tallest and handsomest man present, and splendidly attired. Louis was
small and mean-looking, and clad in an old blue suit, with a hat decorated with little leaden
images of the saints, but his smooth tongue quite overcame the duller intellect of Edward;
and in the mean time the English soldiers were feasted and allowed their full swing, the French
being strictly watched to prevent all quarrels. So skilfully did Louis manage, that Edward
consented to make peace and return home.

4. The Fall of Charles the Bold (1477).--Charles had become entangled in many difficulties.
He was a harsh, stern man, much disliked; and his governors in Elsass were fierce, violent
men, who used every pretext for preying upon travellers. The Governor of Breisach, Hagenbach,
had been put to death in a popular rising, aided by the Swiss of Berne, in 1474; and the men
of Elsass themselves raised part of the sum for which the country had been pledged, and revolted
against Charles. The Swiss were incited by Louis to join them; René of Lorraine made common
cause with them. In two great battles, Granson and Morat, Charles and all his chivalry were
beaten by the Swiss pikemen; but he pushed on the war. Nancy, the chief city of Lorraine, had
risen against him, and he besieged it. On the night of the 5th of January, 1477, René led the
Swiss to relieve the town by falling in early morning on the besiegers' camp. There was a terrible
fight; the Burgundians were routed, and after long search the corpse of Duke Charles was found
in a frozen pool, stripped, plundered, and covered with blood. He was the last of the male
line of Burgundy, and its great possessions broke up with his death. His only child, Marie,
did not inherit the French dukedom nor the county, though most of the fiefs in the Low Countries,
which could descend to the female line, were her undisputed portion. Louis tried, by stirring
up her subjects, to force her into a marriage with his son Charles; but she threw herself on
the protection of the house of Austria, and marrying Maximilian, son of the Emperor Frederick
III., carried her border lands to swell the power of his family.

5. Louis's Home Government.--Louis's system of repression of the nobles went on all this time.
His counsellors were of low birth (Oliver le Daim, his barber, was the man he most trusted),
his habits frugal, his manners reserved and ironical; he was dreaded, hated, and distrusted,
and he became constantly more bitter, suspicious, and merciless. Those who fell under his displeasure
were imprisoned in iron cages, or put to death; and the more turbulent families, such as the
house of Armagnac, were treated with frightful severity. But his was not wanton violence. He
acted on a regular system of depressing the lawless nobility and increasing the royal authority,
by bringing the power of the cities forward, by trusting for protection to the standing army,
chiefly of hired Scots, Swiss, and Italians, and by saving money. By this means he was able
to purchase the counties of Roussillon and Perpignan from the King of Aragon, thus making the
Pyrenees his frontier, and on several occasions he made his treasury fight his battles instead
of the swords of his knights. He lived in the castle of Plessis les Tours, guarded by the utmost
art of fortification, and filled with hired Scottish archers of his guard, whom he preferred
as defenders to his own nobles. He was exceedingly unpopular with his nobles; but the statesman
and historian, Philip de Comines, who had gone over to him from Charles of Burgundy, viewed
him as the best and ablest of kings. He did much to promote trade and manufacture, improved
the cities, fostered the university, and was in truth the first king since Philip Augustus
who had any real sense of statesmanship. But though the burghers throve under him, and the
lawless nobles were depressed, the state of the peasants was not improved; feudal rights pressed
heavily on them, and they were little better than savages, ground down by burthens imposed
by their lords.

6. Provence and Brittany.--Louis had added much to the French monarchy. He had won back Artois;
he had seized the duchy and county of Burgundy; he had bought Roussillon. His last acquisition
was the county of Provence. The second Angevin family, beginning with Louis, the son of King
John, had never succeeded in gaining a footing in Naples, though they bore the royal title.
They held, however, the imperial fief of Provence, and Louis XI., whose mother had been of
this family, obtained from her two brothers, René and Charles, that Provence should be bequeathed
to him instead of passing to René's grandson, the Duke of Lorraine. The Kings of France were
thenceforth Counts of Provence; and though the county was not viewed as part of the kingdom,
it was practically one with it. A yet greater acquisition was made soon after Louis's death
in 1483. The great Celtic duchy of Brittany fell to a female, Anne of Brittany, and the address
of Louis's daughter, the Lady of Beaujeu, who was regent of the realm, prevailed to secure
the hand of the heiress for her brother, Charles VIII. Thus the crown of France had by purchase,
conquest, or inheritance, obtained all the great feudal states that made up the country between
the English Channel and the Pyrenees; but each still remained a separate state, with different
laws and customs, and a separate parliament in each to register laws, and to act as a court
of justice.

CHAPTER IV.

THE ITALIAN WARS.

1. Campaign of Charles VIII. (1493).--From grasping at province after province on their own
border, however, the French kings were now to turn to wider dreams of conquest abroad. Together
with the county of Provence, Louis XI. had bought from King René all the claims of the house
of Anjou. Among these was included a claim to the kingdom of Naples. Louis's son, Charles VIII.,
a vain and shallow lad, was tempted by the possession of large treasures and a fine army to
listen to the persuasions of an Italian intriguer, Ludovico Sforza, Duke of Milan, and put
forward these pretensions, thus beginning a war which lasted nearly as long as the Hundred
Years' War with England. But it was a war of aggression instead of a war of self-defence. Charles
crossed the Alps in 1493, marched the whole length of Italy without opposition, and was crowned
at Naples; while its royal family, an illegitimate offshoot from the Kings of Aragon, fled
into Sicily, and called on Spain for help. But the insolent exactions of the French soldiery
caused the people to rise against them; and when Charles returned, he was beset at Fornovo
by a great league of Italians, over whom he gained a complete victory. Small and puny though
he was, he fought like a lion, and seemed quite inspired by the ardour of combat. The "French
fury," la furia Francese, became a proverb among the Italians. Charles neglected, however,
to send any supplies or reinforcements to the garrisons he had left behind him in Naples, and
they all perished under want, sickness, and the sword of the Spaniards. He was meditating another
expedition, when he struck his head against the top of a doorway, and died in 1498.

2. Campaign of Louis XII.--His cousin, Louis XII., married his widow, and thus prevented Brittany
from again parting from the crown. Louis not only succeeded to the Angevin right to Naples,
but through his grandmother he viewed himself as heir of Milan. She was Valentina Visconti,
wife to that Duke of Orleans who had been murdered by John the Fearless. Louis himself never
advanced further than to Milan, whose surrender made him master of Lombardy, which he held
for the greater part of his reign. But after a while the Spanish king, Ferdinand, agreed with
him to throw over the cause of the unfortunate royal family of Naples, and divide that kingdom
between them. Louis XII. sent a brilliant army to take possession of his share, but the bounds
of each portion had not been defined, and the French and Spanish troops began a war even while
their kings were still treating with one another. The individual French knights did brilliant
exploits, for indeed it was the time of the chief blossom of fanciful chivalry, a knight of
Dauphiné, named Bayard, called the Fearless and Stainless Knight, and honoured by friend and
foe; but the Spaniards were under Gonzalo de Cordova, called the Great Captain, and after the
battles of Cerignola and the Garigliano drove the French out of the kingdom of Naples, though
the war continued in Lombardy.

3. The Holy League.--It was an age of leagues. The Italians, hating French and Spaniards both
alike, were continually forming combinations among themselves and with foreign powers against
whichever happened to be the strongest. The chief of these was called the Holy League, because
it was formed by Pope Julius II., who drew into it Maximilian, then head of the German Empire,
Ferdinand of Spain, and Henry VIII. of England. The French troops were attacked in Milan; and
though they gained the battle of Ravenna in 1512, it was with the loss of their general, Gaston
de Foix, Duke of Nemours, whose death served as an excuse to Ferdinand of Spain for setting
up a claim to the kingdom of Navarre. He cunningly persuaded Henry VIII. to aid him in the
attack, by holding out the vain idea of going on to regain Gascony; and while one troop of
English were attacking Pampeluna, Henry himself landed at Calais and took Tournay and Terouenne.
The French forces were at the same time being chased out of Italy. However, when Pampeluna
had been taken, and the French finally driven out of Lombardy, the Pope and king, who had gained
their ends, left Henry to fight his own battles. He thus was induced to make peace, giving
his young sister Mary as second wife to Louis; but that king over-exerted himself at the banquets,
and died six weeks after the marriage, in 1515. During this reign the waste of blood and treasure
on wars of mere ambition was frightful, and the country had been heavily taxed; but a brilliant
soldiery had been trained up, and national vanity had much increased. The king, though without
deserving much love, was so kindly in manner that he was a favourite, and was called the Father
of the People. His first wife, Anne of Brittany, was an excellent and high-spirited woman,
who kept the court of France in a better state than ever before or since.

4. Campaigns of Francis I.--Louis left only two daughters, the elder of whom, Claude, carried
Brittany to his male heir, Francis, Count of Angoulêine. Anne of Brittany had been much averse
to the match; but Louis said he kept his mice for his own cats, and gave his daughter and her
duchy to Francis as soon as Anne was dead. Francis I. was one of the vainest, falsest, and
most dashing of Frenchmen. In fact, he was an exaggeration in every way of the national character,
and thus became a national hero, much overpraised. He at once resolved to recover Lombardy;
and after crossing the Alps encountered an army of Swiss troops, who had been hired to defend
the Milanese duchy, on the field of Marignano. Francis had to fight a desperate battle with
them; after which he caused Bayard to dub him knight, though French kings were said to be born
knights. In gaining the victory over these mercenaries, who had been hitherto deemed invincible,
he opened for himself a way into Italy, and had all Lombardy at his feet. The Pope, Leo X.,
met him at Bologna, and a concordat took place, by which the French Church became more entirely
subject to the Pope, while in return all patronage was given up to the crown. The effects were
soon seen in the increased corruption of the clergy and people. Francis brought home from this
expedition much taste for Italian art and literature, and all matters of elegance and ornament
made great progress from this time. The great Italian masters worked for him; Raphael painted
some of his most beautiful pictures for him, and Leonardo da Vinci came to his court, and there
died in his arms. His palaces, especially that of Blois, were exceedingly beautiful, in the
new classic style, called the Renaissance. Great richness and splendour reigned at court, and
set off his pretensions to romance and chivalry. Learning and scholarship, especially classical,
increased much; and the king's sister, Margaret, Queen of Navarre, was an excellent and highly
cultivated woman, but even her writings prove that the whole tone of feeling was terribly coarse,
when not vicious.

