Grandison Pratt was a colored man of about thirty, who, with his wife and two or three children,
lived in a neat log cabin in one of the Southern States. He was a man of an independent turn
of mind, and he much desired to own the house in which he lived and the small garden-patch
around it. This valuable piece of property belonged to Mr. Morris, and as it was an outlying
corner of his large farm he had no objection to sell it to Grandison, provided the latter could
pay for it; but of this he had great doubts. The man was industrious enough, but he often seemed
to have a great deal of difficulty about paying the very small rental charged for his place,
and Mr. Morris, consequently, had well-grounded doubts about his ability to purchase it.

"But, sah," said Grandison one day when these objections had been placed before him, "I's been
turnin' dis thing ober in my min' ober an' ober. I know jes' how much I kin make an' how much
I's got to spend an' how I kin save ter buy the house, an' if I agree to pay you so much money
on such a day an' so much on such anudder day I's gwine ter do it. You kin jes' put that down,
sah, for sartin shuh."

"Well, Grandison," said Mr. Morris, "I'll give you a trial. If, at the end of six months, you
can pay me the first instalment, I'll have the necessary papers made out, and you can go on
and buy the place, but if you are not up to time on the first payment, I want to hear no more
about the purchase."

"All right, Mahs'r Morris," said Grandison. "If I gibs you my word ter pay de money on de fus'
day ob October, I's gwine to do it. Dat's sartin shuh."

Months passed on, and, although Grandison worked as steadily as usual, he found toward the
end of September that, in the ordinary course of things, he would not be able to make up the
sum necessary for the first payment. Other methods out of the ordinary course came into his
mind, but he had doubts about availing himself of them. He was extremely anxious to make up
the amount due, for he knew very well that if he did not pay it on the day appointed he might
bid farewell to his hope of becoming a freeholder. In his perplexity he resolved to consult
Brother 'Bijah, the minister of the little church in the pine-woods to which Grandison belonged.

"Now, look-a-heah, Brudder 'Bijah," said he, "wot's I gwine to do 'bout dis bizness? I done
promised ter pay dis money on de fus' day ob de comin' month, an' dar's six dollars ob it dat
I ain't got yit."

"An' aint dar any way ter git it?" asked 'Bijah.

"Yaas, dar's one way," said Grandison, "I's been turnin' dis matter ober an' ober in my min',
an' dar's only one way. I mought sell apples. Apples is mighty skarse dis fall, an' I kin git
two dollars a bar'l for 'em in town. Now, if I was ter sell three bar'ls of apples I'd hab
dat dar six dollars, sartin shuh. Don' you see dat, Brudder 'Bijah?"

"Dat's all clar 'nuf," said the minister, "but whar you gwine ter git three bar'ls o' apples?
You don' mean ter tell me dat you's got 'nuf apple-trees in your little gyardin fur ter shake
down three bar'ls o' apples."

"Now look a-heah, Brudder 'Bijah," said Grandison, his eyes sparkling with righteous indignation,
"dat's too much 'to 'spec' ob a man who's got ter work all day to s'port his wife an' chillun.
I digs, an' I plows, an' I plants, an' I hoes. But all dem things ain't 'nuf ter make apple-trees
grow in my gyardin like as dey was corn-field peas."

"Dat's so," said 'Bijah, reflectively. "Dat's too much to spec' ob any man. But how's you gwine
ter sell de apples if you ain't got 'em?"

"I's got ter git em," said Grandison. "Dar's apples 'nuf growin' roun' an' not so fur away
dat I can't tote 'em ter my house in a bahsket. It's pow'ful hard on a man wot's worked all
day ter have ter tote apples ahfter night, but dar ain' no other way ob gittin' dat dar money."

"I spec' de orchard whar you's thinkin' o' gwine is Mahs'r Morrises," said the minister.

"You don' 'spose Ise gwine ter any ob dose low down orchards on de udder side de creek, does
ye? Mahs'r Morris has got the bes' apples in dis county. Dat's de kin' wot fetch two dollars
a bar'l."

"Brudder Gran'son," said 'Bijah, solemnly, "is you min' runnin on takin' Mahs'r Morrises apples
inter town an' sellin' em?"

"Well, he gits de money, don't he?" answered the other, "and if I don't sell his apples 'taint
no use sellin' none. Dem udder little nubbins roun' heah won't fetch no two dollars a bar'l."

"Dem ain't justifyin' deeds wot's runnin' in your mind," said 'Bijah. "Dey ain't justifyin'."

"Ob course," said Grandison, "dey wouldn't be justifyin' if I had de six dollars. But I ain't
got 'em, an' Ise promised to pay 'em. Now, is I ter stick to de truf, or isn't I?"

"Truf is mighty," said the preacher, "an' ought not to be hendered from prevailin'."

"Dat's so! dat's so!" exclaimed Grandison. "You can't go agin de Scripters. Truf is mighty,
an' 'tain't fur pore human critters like us to try to upsot her. Wot we're got ter do is ter
stick to her through thick an' thin."

"Ob course, dat's wot we oughter do," said 'Bijah, "but I can't see my way clar to you sellin'
dem apples."

"But dar ain't nuffin else ter do!" exclaimed Grandison, "an' ef I don't do dat, away goes
de truf, clar out o' sight. An' wot sort o' 'ligion you call dat, Brudder 'Bijah?"

"'Tain't no kind at all," said 'Bijah, "fur we's bound ter stick to de truf, which is de bottom
corner-stone ob piousness. But dem apples don't seem ter git demselves straightened out in
my mind, Brudder Gran'son."

"It 'pears ter me, Brudder 'Bijah, dat you doan' look at dem apples in de right light. If I
was gwine ter sell 'em to git money ter buy a lot o' spotted calliker ter make frocks for de
chillen, or eben to buy two pars o' shoes fur me an' Judy ter go to church in, dat would be
a sin, sartin shuh. But you done furgit dat I's gwine ter take de money ter Mahs'r Morris.
If apples is riz an' I gits two dollars an' a quarter a bar'l, ob course I keeps de extry quarter,
which don' pay anyhow fur de trouble ob pickin' 'em. But de six dollars I gibs, cash down,
ter Mahs'r Morris. Don' you call dat puffectly fa'r an' squar, Brudder 'Bijah?"

'Bijah shook his head. "Dis is a mighty dubersome question, Brudder Gran'son, a mighty dubersome
question."

Grandison stood with a disappointed expression on his countenance. He greatly desired to gain
from his minister sanction for the financial operation he had proposed. But this the solemn
'Bijah did not appear prepared to give. As the two men stood together by the roadside they
saw, riding toward them, Mr. Morris himself.

"Now, den," exclaimed Grandison, "heah comes Mahs'r Morris, and I's gwine ter put dis question
to hisse'f. He oughter know how ter 'cide bout it, if anybody does."

"You ain't truly gwine ter put dat question to him, is ye?" asked 'Bijah, quickly.

"No, sah," replied the other. "I's gwine to put the case on a dif'rent show-pint. But 'twill
be the same thing as de udder."

Mr. Morris was a genial-natured man, who took a good deal of interest in his negro neighbors,
and was fond of listening to their peculiar humor. Therefore, when he saw that Grandison wished
to speak to him he readily pulled up his horse.

"Mahs'r Morris," said Grandison, removing his hat, "Brudder 'Bijah an' me has been argyin on
de subjick ob truf. An' jes' as you was comin' up I was gwine ter tell him a par'ble 'bout
sticken ter truf. An' if you's got time, Mahs'r Morris, I'd be pow'ful glad ter tell you de
par'ble, an' let you 'cide 'tween us."

"Very well," said Mr. Morris, "go on with your parable."

"Dis yere par'ble," said Grandison, "has got a justifyin' meanin' in it, an' it's 'bout a bar
an' a' possum. De 'possum he was a-gwine out early in de mawnin' ter git a little corn fur
his breakfus'--"

"Very wrong in the opossum," said Mr. Morris, "for I am sure he hadn't planted any corn."

"Well, den, sah," said Grandison, "p'raps 'twas akerns; but, anyway, afore he was out ob de
woods he see a big, ole bar a-comin' straight 'long to him. De 'possum he ain't got no time
ter climb a tree an' git out on de leetlest end ob a long limb, an' so he lay hese'f flat down
on de groun' an' make b'lieve he's dead. When de ole bar came up he sot down an' look at de
'possum. Fus' he turn his head on one side an' den he turn his head on de udder, but he look
at de 'possum all de time. D'reckly he gits done lookin' an' he says:

"'Look-a-heah, 'possum, is you dead or is you libin'? If you's dead I won't eat you, fur I
neber eats dead critters, but if you's libin' den I eats you for my breakfus', fur I is bilin'
hungry, not havin' had nuffin sence sun-up but a little smack dat I took afore gwine out inter
de damp air ob de mawnin'. Now, den, 'possum, speak out and tell me is you 'libe or is you dead?'

"Dat are question frew de 'possum inter a pow'ful sweat. If he told de truf an' said he was
alibe he knowed well 'nuf dat de bar would gobble him up quicker'n if he'd been a hot ash cake
an' a bowl of buttermilk; but if he said he was dead so's de bar wouldn't eat him, de bar,
like 'nuf, would know he lied, an' would eat him all de same. So he turn de matter ober an'
ober in his min', an' he wrastled with his 'victions, but he couldn't come ter no 'clusion.
'Now don't you tink,' said de bar, 'dat I's got time to sit here de whole mawnin' waitin' fer
you ter make up your mind whether you's dead or not. If you don't 'cide pretty quick, I'll
put a big rock a-top o' you, an' stop fer you answer when I come back in de ebenin'.' Now dis
gib de 'possum a pow'ful skeer, an' 'twas cl'ar to his min' dat he mus' 'cide de question straight
off. If he tole de truf, and said he was alibe, he'd be eat up shuh; but if he said he was
dead, de bar mought b'lieve him. 'Twarn't very likely dat he would, but dar was dat one leetle
chance, an' he done took it. 'I is dead,' says he. 'You's a long time makin' up your min' 'bout
it,' says de bar. 'How long you been dead?' 'Sence day 'fore yestidday,' says the 'possum.
'All right!' says de bar, 'when dey've on'y been dead two or free days, an' kin talk, I eats
'em all de same.' An' he eat him up."

"And now, Grandison," said Mr. Morris, "where is the moral of that parable?"

"De moral is dis," said Grandison; "stick ter de truf. If de 'possum had tole de truf, an'
said he was alibe, de bar couldn't eat him no more'n he did eat him; no bar could do dat. An'
I axes you, Mahs'r Morris, don' dat par'ble show dat eb'rybody oughter stick ter de truf, no
matter what happens."

"Well, I don't think your moral is very clear," said Mr. Morris, "for it would have been about
as bad for the 'possum one way as the other. But, after all, it would have been better for
the little beast to tell the truth and die with a clear conscience."

"Dat's so!" cried Brother 'Bijah, speaking in his ministerial capacity, "de great thing in
dis worl' is ter die wid a clear conscience."

"But you can't do dat," said Grandison, "if you let dis thing an' dat thing come in ter hinder
ye. Now dat's jes' wot we's been disputin' 'bout, Mahs'r Morris. I 'clared dat we oughter stick
ter de truf widout lookin' to de right or de lef'; but Brudder 'Bijah, his min' wasn't quite
made up on de subjick. Now, wot you say, Mahs'r Morris?"

"I say stick to the truth, of course," said Mr. Morris, gathering up his reins. "And, by the
way, Grandison, do you expect to make that payment on your place which is due next week?"

"Yaas, sah, sartin shuh," said Grandison. "I done tole you I'd do it, Mahs'r Morris, an' I
'tends ter stick ter de truf."

"Now, den," said Grandison, in a tone of triumph, when Mr. Morris had ridden away, "you see
I's right in my 'clusions, and Mahs'r Morris 'grees with me."

"Dunno," said Brother 'Bijah, shaking his head, "dis is a mighty dubersome question. You kep'
dem apples clar out o' sight, Brudder Gran'son; clar out o' sight."

It was about a week after this, quite early in the morning, that Grandison was slowly driving
into town with a horse and a wagon which he had borrowed from a neighbor. In the wagon were
three barrels of fine apples. Suddenly, at a turn in the road, he was greatly surprised to
meet Mr. Morris, riding homeward.

"What have you in those barrels, Grandison?" inquired his landlord.

"Dey's apples, sah," was the reply, "dat I's got de job ob haulin' ter town, sah."

Mr. Morris rode up to the wagon and removed the piece of old canvas that was thrown over the
tops of the barrels; there was no need of asking any questions. No one but himself, for many
miles around, had "Belle-flowers" and "Jeannettes" like these.

"How much do you lack, Grandison," he said, "of making up the money you owe me to-morrow?"

"Six dollars, sah," said Grandison.

"Six dollars--three barrels--very good," said Mr. Morris. "I see you are determined to stick
to the truth, Grandison, and keep your engagement. But I will trouble you to turn that wagon
round and haul those apples to my house. And, if you still want to buy the place, you can come
on Monday morning and work out the balance you have to make up on the first instalment; and,
after this, you can make all your payments in work. A day's labor is fair and plain, but your
ways of sticking to the truth are very crooked."

It was not long after this that Grandison was ploughing in one of Mr. Morris' fields, when
Brother 'Bijah came along and sat upon the fence.

"Brudder Gran'son," said he, when the ploughman had reached the end of the furrow and was preparing
to turn, "jes' you let your hoss res' a minnit till I tells you a par'ble."

"Wot par'ble?" said Grandison, in a tone of unconcern, but stopping his horse, all the same.

"Why, dis one!" said 'Bijah. "Dar was an ole mule an' he b'longed to a cullud man named Harris
who used to carry de mail from de Coht House ter Cary's Cross-roads. De ole mule was a pow'ful
triflin' critter an' he got lazier an' lazier, an' 'fore long he got so dreffle slow dat it
tuk him more'n one day ter go from de Coht House ter de crossroads, an' he allus come in de
day ahfter mail-day, when de people was done gone home. So de cullud man, Harris, he says:

"'You is too ole fur ter carry de mail, you triflin' mule, an' I hain't got no udder use fur you.'

"So he put him in a gully-field, whar dar was nuffin but bar' groun' an' hog weed. Now, dar
was nuffin in dis worl' dat triflin' mule hated so much as hog weed, an' he says to hese'f:
'I's boun' ter do somefin' better'n dis fur a libin. I reckin I'll go skeer dat ole Harris,
an' make him gib me a feed o' corn.' So he jump ober de fence, fur he was spry 'nuf when he
had a min' ter, an' he steals an ole bar skin dat he'd seen hangin' up in de store po'ch, an'
he pretty nigh kivered himse'f all up wid it. Den he go down to de pos' offis, whar de mail
had jes' come in. When dis triflin' ole mule seed de cullud man, Harris, sittin' on de bottom
step ob de po'ch, he begin to kick up his heels an' make all de noise he could wid he mouf.
'Wot's dat?' cried de cullud man, Harris. 'I's a big grizzly bar,' said de mule, ''scaped from
de 'nagerie when 'twas fordin' Scott's Creek.' 'When did you git out?' said de cullud man,
Harris. 'I bus' from de cage at half pas' free o'clock dis ebenin'.' 'An' is you reely a grizzly
bar?' 'Dat's de truf,' said de triflin' mule, 'an' I's pow'ful hungry, an' if you don' go git
me a feed o' corn I'll swaller you down whole.' An' he begun to roar as like a grizzly bar
as he knew how. 'Dat all de truf, you tellin' me?' de cullud man, Harris, ask. 'Dat's all true
as I's libin',' says de triflin' mule. 'All right, den,' says de cullud man, Harris, 'if you
kin come from de ford on Scott's Creek in a hour an' a half, you kin carry de mail jes' as
well as any udder mule, an' I's gwine ter buy a big cart whip, an' make you do it. So take
off dat bar skin, an' come 'long wid me.' So you see Brudder Gran'son," continued 'Bijah, "dar's
dif'rent kinds ob truf, an' you's got ter be mighty 'ticklar wot kind you sticks ter."

"Git up," said Grandison to his drowsy horse, as he started him on another furrow.

PLAIN FISHING.

"Well, sir," said old Peter, as he came out on the porch with his pipe, "so you came here to
go fishin'?"

Peter Gruse was the owner of the farm-house where I had arrived that day, just before supper-time.
He was a short, strong-built old man, with a pair of pretty daughters, and little gold rings
in his ears. Two things distinguished him from the farmers in the country round about: one
was the rings in his ears, and the other was the large and comfortable house in which he kept
his pretty daughters. The other farmers in that region had fine large barns for their cattle
and horses, but very poor houses for their daughters. Old Peter's ear-rings were indirectly
connected with his house. He had not always lived among those mountains. He had been on the
sea, where his ears were decorated, and he had travelled a good deal on land, where he had
ornamented his mind with many ideas which were not in general use in the part of his State
in which he was born. His house stood a little back from the high road, and if a traveller
wished to be entertained, Peter was generally willing to take him in, provided he had left
his wife and family at home. The old man himself had no objection to wives and children, but
his two pretty daughters had.

These young women had waited on their father and myself at supper-time, one continually bringing
hot griddle cakes, and the other giving me every opportunity to test the relative merits of
the seven different kinds of preserved fruit which, in little glass plates, covered the otherwise
unoccupied spaces on the tablecloth. The latter, when she found that there was no further possible
way of serving us, presumed to sit down at the corner of the table and begin her supper. But
in spite of this apparent humility, which was only a custom of the country, there was that
in the general air of the pretty daughters which left no doubt in the mind of the intelligent
observer that they stood at the wheel in that house. There was a son of fourteen, who sat at
table with us, but he did not appear to count as a member of the family.

"Yes," I answered, "I understood that there was good fishing hereabout, and, at any rate, I
should like to spend a few days among these hills and mountains."

"Well," said Peter, "there's trout in some of our streams, though not as many as there used
to be, and there's hills a plenty, and mountains too, if you choose to walk fur enough. They're
a good deal furder off than they look. What did you bring with you to fish with?"

"Nothing at all," I answered. "I was told in the town that you were a great fisherman, and
that you could let me have all the tackle I would need."

"Upon my word," said old Peter, resting his pipe-hand on his knee and looking steadfastly at
me, "you're the queerest fisherman I've see'd yet. Nigh every year, some two or three of 'em
stop here in the fishin' season, and there was never a man who didn't bring his jinted pole,
and his reels, and his lines, and his hooks, and his dry-goods flies, and his whiskey-flask
with a long strap to it. Now, if you want all these things, I haven't got 'em."

"Whatever you use yourself will suit me," I answered.

"All right, then," said he. "I'll do the best I can for you in the mornin'. But it's plain
enough to me that you're not a game fisherman, or you wouldn't come here without your tools."

To this remark I made answer to the effect that, though I was very fond of fishing, my pleasure
in it did not depend upon the possession of all the appliances of professional sport.

"Perhaps you think," said the old man, "from the way I spoke, that I don't believe them fellers
with the jinted poles can ketch fish, but that ain't so. That old story about the little boy
with the pin-hook who ketched all the fish, while the gentleman with the modern improvements,
who stood alongside of him, kep' throwin' out his beautiful flies and never got nothin', is
a pure lie. The fancy chaps, who must have ev'rythin' jist so, gen'rally gits fish. But for
all that, I don't like their way of fishin', and I take no stock in it myself. I've been fishin',
on and off, ever since I was a little boy, and I've caught nigh every kind there is, from the
big jew-fish and cavalyoes down South, to the trout and minnies round about here. But when
I ketch a fish, the first thing I do is to try to git him on the hook, and the next thing is
to git him out of the water jist as soon as I kin. I don't put in no time worryin' him. There's
only two animals in the world that likes to worry smaller creeturs a good while afore they
kill 'em; one is the cat, and the other is what they call the game fisherman. This kind of
a feller never goes after no fish that don't mind being ketched. He goes fur them kinds that
loves their home in the water and hates most to leave it, and he makes it jist as hard fur
'em as he kin. What the game fisher likes is the smallest kind of a hook, the thinnest line,
and a fish that it takes a good while to weaken. The longer the weak'nin' business kin be spun
out, the more the sport. The idee is to let the fish think there's a chance fur him to git
away. That's jist like the cat with her mouse. She lets the little creetur hop off, but the
minnit he gits fur enough away, she jumps on him and jabs him with her claws, and then, if
there's any game left in him, she lets him try again. Of course the game fisher could have
a strong line and a stout pole and git his fish in a good sight quicker, if he wanted to, but
that wouldn't be sport. He couldn't give him the butt and spin him out, and reel him in, and
let him jump and run till his pluck is clean worn out. Now, I likes to git my fish ashore with
all the pluck in 'em. It makes 'em taste better. And as fur fun, I'll be bound I've had jist
as much of that, and more, too, than most of these fellers who are so dreadful anxious to have
everythin' jist right, and think they can't go fishin' till they've spent enough money to buy
a suit of Sunday clothes. As a gen'ral rule they're a solemn lot, and work pretty hard at their
fun. When I work I want to be paid fur it, and when I go in fur fun I want to take it easy
and cheerful. Now I wouldn't say so much agen these fellers," said old Peter, as he arose and
put his empty pipe on a little shelf under the porch-roof, "if it wasn't for one thing, and
that is, that they think that their kind of fishin' is the only kind worth considerin'. The
way they look down upon plain Christian fishin' is enough to rile a hitchin'-post. I don't
want to say nothin' agen no man's way of attendin' to his own affairs, whether it's kitchen-gardenin',
or whether it's fishin', if he says nothin' agen my way; but when he looks down on me, and
grins at me, I want to haul myself up, and grin at him, if I kin. And in this case, I kin.
I s'pose the house-cat and the cat-fisher (by which I don't mean the man who fishes for cat-fish)
was both made as they is, and they can't help it; but that don't give 'em no right to put on
airs before other bein's, who gits their meat with a square kill. Good-night. And sence I've
talked so much about it, I've a mind to go fishin' with you to-morrow myself."

The next morning found old Peter of the same mind, and after breakfast he proceeded to fit
me out for a day of what he called "plain Christian trout-fishin'." He gave me a reed rod,
about nine feet long, light, strong, and nicely balanced. The tackle he produced was not of
the fancy order, but his lines were of fine strong linen, and his hooks were of good shape,
clean and sharp, and snooded to the lines with a neatness that indicated the hand of a man
who had been where he learned to wear little gold rings in his ears.

"Here are some of these feather insects," he said, "which you kin take along if you like."
And he handed me a paper containing a few artificial flies. "They're pretty nat'ral," he said,
"and the hooks is good. A man who came here fishin' gave 'em to me, but I shan't want 'em to-day.
At this time of year grasshoppers is the best bait in the kind of place where we're goin' to
fish. The stream, after it comes down from the mountain, runs through half a mile of medder
land before it strikes into the woods agen. A grasshopper is a little creetur that's got as
much conceit as if his jinted legs was fish-poles, and he thinks he kin jump over this narrer
run of water whenever he pleases; but he don't always do it, and then if he doesn't git snapped
up by the trout that lie along the banks in the medder, he is floated along into the woods,
where there's always fish enough to come to the second table."

Having got me ready, Peter took his own particular pole, which he assured me he had used for
eleven years, and hooking on his left arm a good-sized basket, which his elder pretty daughter
had packed with cold meat, bread, butter, and preserves, we started forth for a three-mile
walk to the fishing-ground. The day was a favorable one for our purpose, the sky being sometimes
over-clouded, which was good for fishing, and also for walking on a highroad; and sometimes
bright, which was good for effects of mountain-scenery. Not far from the spot where old Peter
proposed to begin our sport, a small frame-house stood by the roadside, and here the old man
halted and entered the open door without knocking or giving so much as a premonitory stamp.
I followed, imitating my companion in leaving my pole outside, which appeared to be the only
ceremony that the etiquette of those parts required of visitors. In the room we entered, a
small man in his shirt-sleeves sat mending a basket-handle. He nodded to Peter, and Peter nodded
to him.

"We've come up a-fishin'," said the old man. "Kin your boys give us some grasshoppers?"

"I don't know that they've got any ready ketched," said he, "for I reckon I used what they
had this mornin'. But they kin git you some. Here, Dan, you and Sile go and ketch Mr. Gruse
and this young man some grasshoppers. Take that mustard-box, and see that you git it full."

Peter and I now took seats, and the conversation began about a black cow which Peter had to
sell, and which the other was willing to buy if the old man would trade for sheep, which animals,
however, the basket-mender did not appear just at that time to have in his possession. As I
was not very much interested in this subject, I walked to the back-door and watched two small
boys in scanty shirts and trousers, and ragged straw hats, who were darting about in the grass
catching grasshoppers, of which insects, judging by the frequent pounces of the boys, there
seemed a plentiful supply.

"Got it full?" said their father, when the boys came in.

"Crammed," said Dan.

Old Peter took the little can, pressed the top firmly on, put it in his coat-tail pocket, and
rose to go. "You'd better think about that cow, Barney," said he. He said nothing to the boys
about the box of bait; but I could not let them catch grasshoppers for us for nothing, and
I took a dime from my pocket, and gave it to Dan. Dan grinned, and Sile looked sheepishly happy,
and at the sight of the piece of silver an expression of interest came over the face of the
father. "Wait a minute," said he, and he went into a little room that seemed to be a kitchen.
Returning, he brought with him a small string of trout. "Do you want to buy some fish?" he
said. "These is nice fresh ones. I ketched 'em this mornin'."

To offer to sell fish to a man who is just about to go out to catch them for himself might,
in most cases, be considered an insult, but it was quite evident that nothing of the kind was
intended by Barney. He probably thought that if I bought grasshoppers, I might buy fish. "You
kin have 'em for a quarter," he said.

It was derogatory to my pride to buy fish at such a moment, but the man looked very poor, and
there was a shade of anxiety on his face which touched me. Old Peter stood by without saying
a word. "It might be well," I said, turning to him, "to buy these fish, for we may not catch
enough for supper."

"Such things do happen," said the old man.

"Well," said I, "if we have these we shall feel safe in any case." And I took the fish and
gave the man a quarter. It was not, perhaps, a professional act, but the trout were well worth
the money, and I felt that I was doing a deed of charity.

Old Peter and I now took our rods, and crossed the road into an enclosed field, and thence
into a wide stretch of grass land, bounded by hills in front of us and to the right, while
a thick forest lay to the left. We had walked but a short distance, when Peter said: "I'll
go down into the woods, and try my luck there, and you'd better go along up stream, about a
quarter of a mile, to where it's rocky. P'raps you ain't used to fishin' in the woods, and
you might git your line cotched. You'll find the trout'll bite in the rough water."

"Where is the stream?" I asked.

"This is it," he said, pointing to a little brook, which was scarcely too wide for me to step
across, "and there's fish right here, but they're hard to ketch, fur they git plenty of good
livin' and are mighty sassy about their eatin'. But you kin ketch 'em up there."

Old Peter now went down toward the woods, while I walked up the little stream. I had seen trout-brooks
before, but never one so diminutive as this. However, when I came nearer to the point where
the stream issued from between two of the foot-hills of the mountains, which lifted their forest-covered
heights in the distance, I found it wider and shallower, breaking over its rocky bottom in
sparkling little cascades.

Fishing in such a jolly little stream, surrounded by this mountain scenery, and with the privileges
of the beautiful situation all to myself, would have been a joy to me if I had had never a
bite. But no such ill-luck befell me. Peter had given me the can of grasshoppers after putting
half of them into his own bait-box, and these I used with much success. It was grasshopper
season, and the trout were evidently on the lookout for them. I fished in the ripples under
the little waterfalls; and every now and then I drew out a lively trout. Most of these were
of moderate size, and some of them might have been called small. The large ones probably fancied
the forest shades, where old Peter went. But all I caught were fit for the table, and I was
very well satisfied with the result of my sport.

About noon I began to feel hungry, and thought it time to look up the old man, who had the
lunch-basket. I walked down the bank of the brook, and some time before I reached the woods
I came to a place where it expanded to a width of about ten feet. The water here was very clear,
and the motion quiet, so that I could easily see to the bottom, which did not appear to be
more than a foot below the surface. Gazing into this transparent water, as I walked, I saw
a large trout glide across the stream, and disappear under the grassy bank which overhung the
opposite side. I instantly stopped. This was a much larger fish than any I had caught, and
I determined to try for him.

I stepped back from the bank, so as to be out of sight, and put a fine grasshopper on my hook;
then I lay, face downward, on the grass, and worked myself slowly forward until I could see
the middle of the stream; then quietly raising my pole, I gave my grasshopper a good swing,
as if he had made a wager to jump over the stream at its widest part. But as he certainly would
have failed in such an ambitious endeavor, especially if he had been caught by a puff of wind,
I let him come down upon the surface of the water, a little beyond the middle of the brook.
Grasshoppers do not sink when they fall into the water, and so I kept this fellow upon the
surface, and gently moved him along, as if, with all the conceit taken out of him by the result
of his ill-considered leap, he was ignominiously endeavoring to swim to shore. As I did this,
I saw the trout come out from under the bank, move slowly toward the grasshopper, and stop
directly under him. Trembling with anxiety and eager expectation, I endeavored to make the
movements of the insect still more natural, and, as far as I was able, I threw into him a sudden
perception of his danger, and a frenzied desire to get away. But, either the trout had had
all the grasshoppers he wanted, or he was able, from long experience, to perceive the difference
between a natural exhibition of emotion and a histrionic imitation of it, for he slowly turned,
and, with a few slight movements of his tail, glided back under the bank. In vain did the grasshopper
continue his frantic efforts to reach the shore; in vain did he occasionally become exhausted,
and sink a short distance below the surface; in vain did he do everything that he knew, to
show that he appreciated what a juicy and delicious morsel he was, and how he feared that the
trout might yet be tempted to seize him; the fish did not come out again.

Then I withdrew my line, and moved back from the stream. I now determined to try Mr. Trout
with a fly, and I took out the paper old Peter Gruse had given me. I did not know exactly what
kind of winged insects were in order at this time of the year, but I was sure that yellow butterflies
were not particular about just what month it was, so long as the sun shone warmly. I therefore
chose that one of Peter's flies which was made of the yellowest feathers, and, removing the
snood and hook from my line, I hastily attached this fly, which was provided with a hook quite
suitable for my desired prize. Crouching on the grass, I again approached the brook. Gaily
flitting above the glassy surface of the water, in all the fancied security of tender youth
and innocence, came my yellow fly. Backward and forward over the water he gracefully flew,
sometimes rising a little into the air, as if to view the varied scenery of the woods and mountains,
and then settling for a moment close to the surface, to better inspect his glittering image
as it came up from below, and showing in his every movement his intense enjoyment of summer-time
and life.

