THE UNCROWNED KING

BY HAROLD BELL WRIGHT

AUTHOR OF "THE SHEPHERD OF THE HILLS" ETC., ETC.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY JOHN REA NEILL

 1910

To MR. ELSBERY W. REYNOLDS My Publisher and Friend, Whose belief in my work has made my work
possible, I gratefully dedicate this tale of The Uncrowned King

Redlands, California. May fourth, 1910

     "Eyes blinded by
     the fog of Things cannot
     see Truth. Ears
     deafened by the din
     of Things cannot hear
     Truth. Brains bewildered
     by the whirl of
     Things cannot think
     Truth. Hearts deadened
     by the weight
     of Things cannot feel
     Truth. Throats choked
     by the dust of Things
     cannot speak Truth."

CONTENTS

The Pilgrim and His Pilgrimage The Voice of the Waves The Voice of the Evening Wind The Voice
of the Night The Voice of the New Day

ILLUSTRATIONS Drawn by John Rea Neill

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PILGRIM AND HIS PILGRIMAGE

For many, many, weary months the Pilgrim journeyed in the wide and pathless Desert of Facts.
So many indeed were the months that the wayworn Pilgrim, himself, came at last to forget their
number.

And always, for the Pilgrim, the sky by day was a sky of brass, softened not by so much as
a wreath of cloud mist. Always, for him, the hot air was stirred not by so much as the lift
of a wild bird's wing. Never, for him, was the awful stillness of the night broken by voice
of his kind, by foot-fall of beast, or by rustle of creeping thing. For the toiling Pilgrim
in the vast and pathless Desert of Facts there was no kindly face, no friendly fire. Only the
stars were many--many and very near.

Day after day, as the Pilgrim labored onward, through the torturing heat, under the sky of
brass, he saw on either hand lakes of living waters and groves of many palms. And the waters
called him to their healing coolness: the palms beckoned him to their restful shade and shelter.
Night after night, in the dreadful solitude, frightful Shapes came on silent feet out of the
silent darkness to stare at him with doubtful, questioning, threatening eyes; drawing back
at last, if he stood still, as silently as they had come, or, if he advanced, vanishing quickly,
only to reappear as silently in another place.

But the Pilgrim knew that the enchanting scenes that lured him by day were but pictures in
the heated air. He knew that the fearful Shapes that haunted him by night were but creatures
of his own overwrought fancy. And so he journeyed on and ever on, in the staggering heat, under
the sky of brass, in the awful stillness of the night: on and ever on, through the wide and
pathless waste, until he came at last to the Outer-Edge-Of-Things--came to the place that is
between the Desert of Facts and the Beautiful Sea, even as it is written in the Law of the
Pilgrimage.

The tired feet of the Traveler left now the rough, hot floor of the desert for a soft, cool
carpet of velvet grass all inwrought with blossoms that filled the air with fragrance. Over
his head, tall trees gently shook their glistening, shadowy leaves, while sweet voiced birds
of rare and wondrous plumage flitted from bough to bough. Across a sky of deepest blue, fleets
of fairy cloud ships, light as feathery down, floated--floated--drifting lazily, as though,
piloted only by the wind, their pilot slept. All about him, as he walked, multitudes of sunlight
and shadow fairies danced gaily hand in hand. And over the shimmering surface of the Sea a
thousand thousand fairy waves ran joyously, one after the other, from the sky line to the pebbly
beach, making liquid music clearer and softer than the softest of clear toned bells.

And there it was, in that wondrously beautiful place, the Outer-Edge-Of-Things, that the Pilgrim
found, fashioned of sheerest white, with lofty dome, towering spires, and piercing minarets
lifting out of the living green, the Temple of Truth.

In reverent awe the Pilgrim stood before the sacred object of his Pilgrimage.

At last, with earnest step, the worshiper approached the holy edifice. But when he would have
passed through the high arched door, his way was barred by one whose garments were white even
as the whiteness of the Temple, whose eyes were clear even as the skies, and whose face shone
even as the shining Beautiful Sea.

The Pilgrim, hesitating, spoke: "You are?"

The other answered in a voice that was even as the soft wind that stirred the leaves of the
forest: "I am Thyself."

Then the Pilgrim--"And your office?"

"I am the appointed Keeper of the Temple of Truth; save by my permission none may enter here."

Cried the Pilgrim eagerly: "But I? I may enter? Surely I have fulfilled The Law! Surely I have
paid The Price!"

"What law have you fulfilled? What price have you paid?" gently asked he in the garments of white.

Proudly now the other answered: "I have accomplished alone the long journey through the Desert
of Facts. Alone I have endured the days under the sky of brass; alone I have borne the awful
solitude of the nights. I was not drawn aside by the lovely scenes that tempted me. I was not
turned back by the dreadful Shapes that threatened me. And so I have attained the Outer-Edge-Of-Things."

"You have indeed fulfilled The Law," said he of the shining face. "And The Price?"

The Pilgrim answered sadly: "I left behind all things dearest to the heart of man--Wealth of
Traditions inherited from the Long Ago, Holy Prejudices painfully gathered through the ages
of the past, Sacred Opinions, Customs, Favors and Honors of the World that is, in the times
that are."

"You have indeed paid The Price," said the soft voice of the other, "but still, still there
is one thing more."

"And the one thing more?" asked the Pilgrim, "I knew not that there could be one thing more."

The Keeper of the Temple was silent for a little, then said very gently: "Is there nothing,
O Hadji, that you would ask Thyself?"

Then all at once the Pilgrim understood. Said he slowly: "There is still one thing more. Tell
me, tell me--Why? Why The Law of the Pilgrimage? Why the journey so long? Why the way so hard?
Why is the Temple of Truth here on the Outer-Edge-Of-Things?"

And Thyself answered clearly: "He who lives always within Things can never worship in Truth.
Therefore, O Hadji, is the Temple of Truth here on the Outer-Edge-Of-Things; therefore is The
Law of the Pilgrimage."

"And The Price?" asked the Pilgrim; "It was so great a price. Why?"

Thyself answered: "Found you no bones in the Desert? Found you no graves by the way?"

The other replied: "I saw the Desert white with bones--I found the way set among many graves."

"And the hands of the dead?"--asked Thyself, in that voice so like the wind that stirred the
leaves of the forest--"And the hands of the dead?"

And the Pilgrim answered now with understanding: "The hands of the dead held fast to their
treasures--held fast to their Wealth of Traditions, to their Holy Prejudices, to the Sacred
Opinions, Customs, Favors and Honors of Men."

Then Thyself, the appointed Keeper of the Temple of Truth, went quietly aside from the path.
With slow and reverent step, with bowed uncovered head, the Pilgrim crossed the threshold and
through the high arched doorway entered the sacred corridors.

But within the Temple, before approaching the altar with his offering, the Pilgrim was constrained
to retire to The Quiet Room, there to spend the hours until a new day in prayerful meditation.
It was there that this Tale of The Uncrowned King came to him--came to him at the end of his
long pilgrimage across the Desert of Facts--came to him after he had paid The Price, after
he had fulfilled The Law, after he had asked of Thyself, the Keeper of the Temple, "Why?"

There, in The Quiet Room in the Temple of Truth on the Outer-Edge-Of-Things, the Voices to
the Pilgrim told this Tale of The Uncrowned King.

       *       *       *       *       *

AND THE FIRST VOICE WAS THE VOICE OF THE WAVES

It was nearing the fall of day when first the Pilgrim laid himself to meditate upon his couch
in The Quiet Room.

Without the Temple, the tall trees rustled softly their glossy leaves and over the flower-figured
carpet of green the sunlight and shadow fairies danced along the lanes of gold. High in the
blue above, the fairy cloud-fleets were drifting--drifting--idly floating. Over the Beautiful
Sea, the glad wave fairies ran one after the other from beyond the far horizon to the sandy shore.

In The Quiet Room where the Pilgrim lay, it was very, very, still. Only the liquid music of
the waves came through the open window--came to the Pilgrim clearer and sweeter than the sweetest
notes from clear toned bells.

And after a little there was in the music of the waves a Voice.

Said the Voice: "To thee, O Hadji, I come from the Beautiful Sea; the interminable, unfathomable
sea, that begins at the Outer-Edge-Of-Things and stretches away into Neverness. I speak from
out the Deeps Beneath. I tell of the Great That Is. I am a Voice of Life, O Hadji, and mine
it is to begin for you The Tale of The Uncrowned King."

And this is the beginning of the Tale that the Voice of the Waves began.

Very great and very wonderful, O Hadji, is the Land of Allthetime. Very great and very wonderful
is the Royal City Daybyday. Beautiful in Allthetime are the lakes and rivers, the mountains,
plains and streams. Beautiful in Daybyday are the groves and gardens, the drives and parks,
the harbors and canals. Countless, in this Royal City, are the palaces. Without number are
the people--without number and of many races, languages, and names.

But amid the countless palaces in this marvelous city Daybyday, there is one Temple only--only
one. For the numberless people of the many races, languages, and names, there is but one God--only
one. About this Royal City there is no Wall. For the King of Allthetime, who dwells in Daybyday,
there is no Crown.

But the days that were were not as the days that are, O Hadji, and therefore is this Tale.

In the long ago olden days, when King What-Soever-Youthink ruled over the Land of Allthetime,
there were, in this Royal City Daybyday, religions many--as many quite as the races, languages
and names of the people. Many then were the temples built by the many followers of the many
religions to their many gods. For you must know that King What-Soever-You-think was, of all
wise kings that ever were or will be, the very wisest and, therefore, permitted his subjects
to worship whom they would.

Always in the city streets there were vast throngs of people passing to and fro among the temples,
bearing offerings and singing praises to the gods of their choice; for the chiefest occupation
of the dwellers in Daybyday was then, as it is now, the old, old, occupation of worship. Some
of the temples, it is true, were at times quite deserted, while in others there was not room
for the multitudes; but even in the nearly empty temples the priests and beggars always remained,
for, in that age, the people of Daybyday changed often their gods nor followed any very far.

And you must know, too, O Hadji, that in those long ago olden days--the days of the reign of
What-Soever-Youthink there was for the Ruler of Allthetime a Crown; and that of all the wonders
in that wonderful land this Crown was the most wonderful. More dear to the people of Daybyday
than their city itself, more precious than their splendid temples, more sacred even than their
many gods, was this--the Crown of their King.

