The Tides Of Barnegat

by

F. Hopkinson Smith

CONTENTS

       I  THE DOCTOR'S GIG
      II  SPRING BLOSSOMS
     III  LITTLE TOD FOGARTY
      IV  ANN GOSSAWAY'S RED CLOAK
       V  CAPTAIN NAT'S DECISION
      VI  A GAME OF CARDS
     VII  THE EYES OF AN OLD PORTRAIT
    VIII  AN ARRIVAL
      IX  THE SPREAD OF FIRE
       X  A LATE VISITOR
      XI  MORTON COBDEN'S DAUGHTER
     XII  A LETTER FROM PARIS
    XIII  SCOOTSY'S EPITHET
     XIV  HIGH WATER AT YARDLEY
      XV  A PACKAGE OF LETTERS
     XVI  THE BEGINNING OF THE EBB
    XVII  BREAKERS AHEAD
   XVIII  THE SWEDE'S STORY
     XIX  THE BREAKING OF THE DAWN
      XX  THE UNDERTOW
     XXI  THE MAN IN THE SLOUCH HAT
    XXII  THE CLAW OF THE SEA-PUSS

THE TIDES OF BARNEGAT

CHAPTER I

THE DOCTOR'S GIG

One lovely spring morning--and this story begins on a spring morning some fifty years or more
ago--a joy of a morning that made one glad to be alive, when the radiant sunshine had turned
the ribbon of a road that ran from Warehold village to Barnegat Light and the sea to satin,
the wide marshes to velvet, and the belts of stunted pines to bands of purple--on this spring
morning, then, Martha Sands, the Cobdens' nurse, was out with her dog Meg. She had taken the
little beast to the inner beach for a bath--a custom of hers when the weather was fine and
the water not too cold--and was returning to Warehold by way of the road, when, calling the
dog to her side, she stopped to feast her eyes on the picture unrolled at her feet.

To the left of where she stood curved the coast, glistening like a scimitar, and the strip
of yellow beach which divided the narrow bay from the open sea; to the right, thrust out into
the sheen of silver, lay the spit of sand narrowing the inlet, its edges scalloped with lace
foam, its extreme point dominated by the grim tower of Barnegat Light; aloft, high into the
blue, soared the gulls, flashing like jewels as they lifted their breasts to the sun, while
away and beyond the sails of the fishing-boats, gray or silver in their shifting tacks, crawled
over the wrinkled sea.

The glory of the landscape fixed in her mind, Martha gathered her shawl about her shoulders,
tightened the strings of her white cap, smoothed out her apron, and with the remark to Meg
that he'd "never see nothin' so beautiful nor so restful," resumed her walk.

They were inseparable, these two, and had been ever since the day she had picked him up outside
the tavern, half starved and with a sore patch on his back where some kitchen-maid had scalded
him. Somehow the poor outcast brought home to her a sad page in her own history, when she herself
was homeless and miserable, and no hand was stretched out to her. So she had coddled and fondled
him, gaining his confidence day by day and talking to him by the hour of whatever was uppermost
in her mind.

Few friendships presented stronger contrasts: She stout and motherly-looking--too stout for
any waistline--with kindly blue eyes, smooth gray hair--gray, not white--her round, rosy face,
framed in a cotton cap, aglow with the freshness of the morning--a comforting, coddling-up
kind of woman of fifty, with a low, crooning voice, gentle fingers, and soft, restful hollows
about her shoulders and bosom for the heads of tired babies; Meg thin, rickety, and sneak-eyed,
with a broken tail that hung at an angle, and but one ear (a black-and-tan had ruined the other)--a
sandy-colored, rough-haired, good-for-nothing cur of multifarious lineage, who was either crouching
at her feet or in full cry for some hole in a fence or rift in a wood-pile where he could flatten
out and sulk in safety.

Martha continued her talk to Meg. While she had been studying the landscape he had taken the
opportunity to wallow in whatever came first, and his wet hair was bristling with sand and
matted with burrs.

"Come here, Meg--you measly rascal!" she cried, stamping her foot. "Come here, I tell ye!"

The dog crouched close to the ground, waited until Martha was near enough to lay her hand upon
him, and then, with a backward spring, darted under a bush in full blossom.

"Look at ye now!" she shouted in a commanding tone. "'Tain't no use o' my washin' ye. Ye're
full o' thistles and jest as dirty as when I throwed ye in the water. Come out o' that, I tell
ye! Now, Meg, darlin'"--this came in a coaxing tone--"come out like a good dog--sure I'm not
goin' in them brambles to hunt ye!"

A clatter of hoofs rang out on the morning air. A two-wheeled gig drawn by a well-groomed sorrel
horse and followed by a brown-haired Irish setter was approaching. In it sat a man of thirty,
dressed in a long, mouse-colored surtout with a wide cape falling to the shoulders. On his
head was a soft gray hat and about his neck a white scarf showing above the lapels of his coat.
He had thin, shapely legs, a flat waist, and square shoulders, above which rose a clean-shaven
face of singular sweetness and refinement.

At the sound of the wheels the tattered cur poked his head from between the blossoms, twisted
his one ear to catch the sound, and with a side-spring bounded up the road toward the setter.

"Well, I declare, if it ain't Dr. John Cavendish and Rex!" Martha exclaimed, raising both hands
in welcome as the horse stopped beside her. "Good-mornin' to ye, Doctor John. I thought it
was you, but the sun blinded me, and I couldn't see. And ye never saw a better nor a brighter
mornin'. These spring days is all blossoms, and they ought to be. Where ye goin', anyway, that
ye're in such a hurry? Ain't nobody sick up to Cap'n Holt's, be there?" she added, a shade
of anxiety crossing her face.

"No, Martha; it's the dressmaker," answered the doctor, tightening the reins on the restless
sorrel as he spoke. The voice was low and kindly and had a ring of sincerity through it.

"What dressmaker?"

"Why, Miss Gossaway!" His hand was extended now--that fine, delicately wrought, sympathetic
hand that had soothed so many aching heads.

"You've said it," laughed Martha, leaning over the wheel so as to press his fingers in her
warm palm. "There ain't no doubt 'bout that skinny fright being 'Miss,' and there ain't no
doubt 'bout her stayin' so. Ann Gossaway she is, and Ann Gossaway she'll die. Is she took bad?"
she continued, a merry, questioning look lighting up her kindly face, her lips pursed knowingly.

"No, only a sore throat" the doctor replied, loosening his coat.

"Throat!" she rejoined, with a wry look on her face. "Too bad 'twarn't her tongue. If ye could
snip off a bit o' that some day it would help folks considerable 'round here."

The doctor laughed in answer, dropped the lines over the dashboard and leaned forward in his
seat, the sun lighting up his clean-cut face. Busy as he was--and there were few busier men
in town, as every hitching-post along the main street of Warehold village from Billy Tatham's,
the driver of the country stage, to Captain Holt's, could prove--he always had time for a word
with the old nurse.

"And where have YOU been, Mistress Martha?" he asked, with a smile, dropping his whip into
the socket, a sure sign that he had a few more minutes to give her.

"Oh, down to the beach to git some o' the dirt off Meg. Look at him--did ye ever see such a
rapscallion! Every time I throw him in he's into the sand ag'in wallowin' before I kin git to him."

The doctor bent his head, and for an instant watched the two dogs: Meg circling about Rex,
all four legs taut, his head jerking from side to side in his eagerness to be agreeable to
his roadside acquaintance; the agate-eyed setter returning Meg's attentions with the stony
gaze of a club swell ignoring a shabby relative. The doctor smiled thoughtfully. There was
nothing he loved to study so much as dogs--they had a peculiar humor of their own, he often
said, more enjoyable sometimes than that of men--then he turned to Martha again.

"And why are you away from home this morning of all others?" he asked. "I thought Miss Lucy
was expected from school to-day?"

"And so she is, God bless her! And that's why I'm here. I was that restless I couldn't keep
still, and so I says to Miss Jane, 'I'm goin' to the beach with Meg and watch the ships go
by; that's the only thing that'll quiet my nerves. They're never in a hurry with everybody
punchin' and haulin' them.' Not that there's anybody doin' that to me, 'cept like it is to-day
when I'm waitin' for my blessed baby to come back to me. Two years, doctor--two whole years
since I had my arms round her. Wouldn't ye think I'd be nigh crazy?"

"She's too big for your arms now, Martha," laughed the doctor, gathering up his reins. "She's
a woman--seventeen, isn't she?"

"Seventeen and three months, come the fourteenth of next July. But she's not a woman to me,
and she never will be. She's my wee bairn that I took from her mother's dyin' arms and nursed
at my own breast, and she'll be that wee bairn to me as long as I live. Ye'll be up to see
her, won't ye, doctor?"

"Yes, to-night. How's Miss Jane?" As he made the inquiry his eyes kindled and a slight color
suffused his cheeks.

"She'll be better for seein' ye," the nurse answered with a knowing look. Then in a louder
and more positive tone, "Oh, ye needn't stare so with them big brown eyes o' yourn. Ye can't
fool old Martha, none o' you young people kin. Ye think I go round with my eyelids sewed up.
Miss Jane knows what she wants--she's proud, and so are you; I never knew a Cobden nor a Cavendish
that warn't. I haven't a word to say--it'll be a good match when it comes off. Where's that
Meg? Good-by, doctor. I won't keep ye a minute longer from MISS Gossaway. I'm sorry it ain't
her tongue, but if it's only her throat she may get over it. Go 'long, Meg!"

Dr. Cavendish laughed one of his quiet laughs--a laugh that wrinkled the lines about his eyes,
with only a low gurgle in his throat for accompaniment, picked up his whip, lifted his hat
in mock courtesy to the old nurse, and calling to Rex, who, bored by Meg's attentions, had
at last retreated under the gig, chirruped to his horse, and drove on.

Martha watched the doctor and Rex until they were out of sight, walked on to the top of the
low hill, and finding a seat by the roadside--her breath came short these warm spring days--sat
down to rest, the dog stretched out in her lap. The little outcast had come to her the day
Lucy left Warehold for school, and the old nurse had always regarded him with a certain superstitious
feeling, persuading herself that nothing would happen to her bairn as long as this miserable
dog was well cared for.

"Ye heard what Doctor John said about her bein' a woman, Meg?" she crooned, when she had caught
her breath. "And she with her petticoats up to her knees! That's all he knows about her. Ye'd
know better than that, Meg, wouldn't ye--if ye'd seen her grow up like he's done? But grown
up or not, Meg"--here she lifted the dog's nose to get a clearer view of his sleepy eyes--"she's
my blessed baby and she's comin' home this very day, Meg, darlin'; d'ye hear that, ye little
ruffian? And she's not goin' away ag'in, never, never. There'll be nobody drivin' round in
a gig lookin' after her--nor nobody else as long as I kin help it. Now git up and come along;
I'm that restless I can't sit still," and sliding the dog from her lap, she again resumed her
walk toward Warehold.

Soon the village loomed in sight, and later on the open gateway of "Yardley," the old Cobden
Manor, with its two high brick posts topped with white balls and shaded by two tall hemlocks,
through which could be seen a level path leading to an old colonial house with portico, white
pillars supporting a balcony, and a sloping roof with huge chimneys and dormer windows.

Martha quickened her steps, and halting at the gate-posts, paused for a moment with her eyes
up the road. It was yet an hour of the time of her bairn's arrival by the country stage, but
her impatience was such that she could not enter the path without this backward glance. Meg,
who had followed behind his mistress at a snail's pace, also came to a halt and, as was his
custom, picked out a soft spot in the road and sat down on his haunches.

Suddenly the dog sprang up with a quick yelp and darted inside the gate. The next instant a
young girl in white, with a wide hat shading her joyous face, jumped from behind one of the
big hemlocks and with a cry pinioned Martha's arms to her side.

"Oh, you dear old thing, you! where have you been? Didn't you know I was coming by the early
stage?" she exclaimed in a half-querulous tone.

The old nurse disengaged one of her arms from the tight clasp of the girl, reached up her hand
until she found the soft cheek, patted it gently for an instant as a blind person might have
done, and then reassured, hid her face on Lucy's shoulder and burst into tears. The joy of
the surprise had almost stopped her breath.

"No, baby, no," she murmured. "No, darlin', I didn't. I was on the beach with Meg. No, no--Oh,
let me cry, darlin'. To think I've got you at last. I wouldn't have gone away, darlin', but
they told me you wouldn't be here till dinner-time. Oh, darlin', is it you? And it's all true,
isn't it? and ye've come back to me for good? Hug me close. Oh, my baby bairn, my little one!
Oh, you precious!" and she nestled the girl's head on her bosom, smoothing her cheek as she
crooned on, the tears running down her cheeks.

Before the girl could reply there came a voice calling from the house: "Isn't she fine, Martha?"
A woman above the middle height, young and of slender figure, dressed in a simple gray gown
and without her hat, was stepping from the front porch to meet them.

"Too fine, Miss Jane, for her old Martha," the nurse called back. "I've got to love her all
over again. Oh, but I'm that happy I could burst meself with joy! Give me hold of your hand,
darlin'--I'm afraid I'll lose ye ag'in if ye get out of reach of me."

The two strolled slowly up the path to meet Jane, Martha patting the girl's arm and laying
her cheek against it as she walked. Meg had ceased barking and was now sniffing at Lucy's skirts,
his bent tail wagging slowly, his sneaky eyes looking up into Lucy's face.

"Will he bite, Martha?" she asked, shrinking to one side. She had an aversion to anything physically
imperfect, no matter how lovable it might be to others. This tattered example struck her as
particularly objectionable.

"No, darlin'--nothin' 'cept his food," and Martha laughed.

"What a horrid little beast!" Lucy said half aloud to herself, clinging all the closer to the
nurse. "This isn't the dog sister Jane wrote me about, is it? She said you loved him dearly--you
don't, do you?"

"Yes, that's the same dog. You don't like him, do you, darlin'?"

"No, I think he's awful," retorted Lucy in a positive tone.

"It's all I had to pet since you went away," Martha answered apologetically.

"Well, now I'm home, give him away, please. Go away, you dreadful dog!" she cried, stamping
her foot as Meg, now reassured, tried to jump upon her.

The dog fell back, and crouching close to Martha's side raised his eyes appealingly, his ear
and tail dragging.

Jane now joined them. She had stopped to pick some blossoms for the house.

"Why, Lucy, what's poor Meg done?" she asked, as she stooped over and stroked the crestfallen
beast's head. "Poor old doggie--we all love you, don't we?"

"Well, just please love him all to yourselves, then," retorted Lucy with a toss of her head.
"I wouldn't touch him with a pair of tongs. I never saw anything so ugly. Get away, you little
brute!"

"Oh, Lucy, dear, don't talk so," replied the older sister in a pitying tone. "He was half starved
when Martha found him and brought him home--and look at his poor back--"

"No, thank you; I don't want to look at his poor back, nor his poor tail, nor anything else
poor about him. And you will send him away, won't you, like a dear good old Martha?" she added,
patting Martha's shoulder in a coaxing way. Then encircling Jane's waist with her arm, the
two sisters sauntered slowly back to the house.

Martha followed behind with Meg.

Somehow, and for the first time where Lucy was concerned, she felt a tightening of her heart-strings,
all the more painful because it had followed so closely upon the joy of their meeting. What
had come over her bairn, she said to herself with a sigh, that she should talk so to Meg--to
anything that her old nurse loved, for that matter? Jane interrupted her reveries.

"Did you give Meg a bath, Martha?" she asked over her shoulder. She had seen the look of disappointment
in the old nurse's face and, knowing the cause, tried to lighten the effect.

"Yes--half water and half sand. Doctor John came along with Rex shinin' like a new muff, and
I was ashamed to let him see Meg. He's comin' up to see you to-night, Lucy, darlin'," and she
bent forward and tapped the girl's shoulder to accentuate the importance of the information.

Lucy cut her eye in a roguish way and twisted her pretty head around until she could look into
Jane's eyes.

"Who do you think he's coming to see, sister?"

"Why, you, you little goose. They're all coming--Uncle Ephraim has sent over every day to find
out when you would be home, and Bart Holt was here early this morning, and will be back to-night."

"What does Bart Holt look like?"--she had stopped in her walk to pluck a spray of lilac blossoms.
"I haven't seen him for years; I hear he's another one of your beaux," she added, tucking the
flowers into Jane's belt. "There, sister, that's just your color; that's what that gray dress
needs. Tell me, what's Bart like?"

"A little like Captain Nat, his father," answered Jane, ignoring Lucy's last inference, "not
so stout and--"

"What's he doing?"

"Nothin', darlin', that's any good," broke in Martha from behind the two. "He's sailin' a boat
when he ain't playin' cards or scarin' everybody down to the beach with his gun, or shyin'
things at Meg."

"Don't you mind anything Martha says, Lucy," interrupted Jane in a defensive tone. "He's got
a great many very good qualities; he has no mother and the captain has never looked after him.
It's a great wonder that he is not worse than he is."

She knew Martha had spoken the truth, but she still hoped that her influence might help him,
and then again, she never liked to hear even her acquaintances criticised.

"Playing cards! That all?" exclaimed Lucy, arching her eyebrows; her sister's excuses for the
delinquent evidently made no impression on her. "I don't think playing cards is very bad; and
I don't blame him for throwing anything he could lay his hands on at this little wretch of
Martha's. We all played cards up in our rooms at school. Miss Sarah never knew anything about
it--she thought we were in bed, and it was just lovely to fool her. And what does the immaculate
Dr. John Cavendish look like? Has he changed any?" she added with a laugh.

"No," answered Jane simply.

"Does he come often?" She had turned her head now and was looking from under her lids at Martha.
"Just as he used to and sit around, or has he--" Here she lifted her eyebrows in inquiry, and
a laugh bubbled out from between her lips.

"Yes, that's just what he does do," cried Martha in a triumphant tone; "every minute he kin
git. And he can't come too often to suit me. I jest love him, and I'm not the only one, neither,
darlin'," she added with a nod of her head toward Jane.

"And Barton Holt as well?" persisted Lucy. "Why, sister, I didn't suppose there would be a
man for me to look at when I came home, and you've got two already! Which one are you going
to take?" Here her rosy face was drawn into solemn lines.

Jane colored. "You've got to be a great tease, Lucy," she answered as she leaned over and kissed
her on the cheek. "I'm not in the back of the doctor's head, nor he in mine--he's too busy
nursing the sick--and Bart's a boy!"

"Why, he's twenty-five years old, isn't he?" exclaimed Lucy in some surprise.

"Twenty-five years young, dearie--there's a difference, you know. That's why I do what I can
to help him. If he'd had the right influences in his life and could be thrown a little more
with nice women it would help make him a better man. Be very good to him, please, even if you
do find him a little rough."

They had mounted the steps of the porch and were now entering the wide colonial hall--a bare
white hall, with a staircase protected by spindling mahogany banisters and a handrail. Jane
passed into the library and seated herself at her desk. Lucy ran on upstairs, followed by Martha
to help unpack her boxes and trunks.

When they reached the room in which Martha had nursed her for so many years--the little crib
still occupied one corner--the old woman took the wide hat from the girl's head and looked
long and searchingly into her eyes.

"Let me look at ye, my baby," she said, as she pushed Lucy's hair back from her forehead; "same
blue eyes, darlin', same pretty mouth I kissed so often, same little dimples ye had when ye
lay in my arms, but ye've changed--how I can't tell. Somehow, the face is different."

Her hands now swept over the full rounded shoulders and plump arms of the beautiful girl, and
over the full hips.

"The doctor's right, child," she said with a sigh, stepping back a pace and looking her over
critically; "my baby's gone--you've filled out to be a woman."

CHAPTER II

SPRING BLOSSOMS

For days the neighbors in and about the village of Warehold had been looking forward to Lucy's
home-coming as one of the important epochs in the history of the Manor House, quite as they
would have done had Lucy been a boy and the expected function one given in honor of the youthful
heir's majority. Most of them had known the father and mother of these girls, and all of them
loved Jane, the gentle mistress of the home--a type of woman eminently qualified to maintain
its prestige.

It had been a great house in its day. Built in early Revolutionary times by Archibald Cobden,
who had thrown up his office under the Crown and openly espoused the cause of the colonists,
it had often been the scene of many of the festivities and social events following the conclusion
of peace and for many years thereafter: the rooms were still pointed out in which Washington
and Lafayette had slept, as well as the small alcove where the dashing Bart de Klyn passed
the night whenever he drove over in his coach with outriders from Bow Hill to Barnegat and the sea.

With the death of Colonel Creighton Cobden, who held a commission in the War of 1812, all this
magnificence of living had changed, and when Morton Cobden, the father of Jane and Lucy, inherited
the estate, but little was left except the Manor House, greatly out of repair, and some invested
property which brought in but a modest income. On his death-bed Morton Cobden's last words
were a prayer to Jane, then eighteen, that she would watch over and protect her younger sister,
a fair-haired child of eight, taking his own and her dead mother's place, a trust which had
so dominated Jane's life that it had become the greater part of her religion.

Since then she had been the one strong hand in the home, looking after its affairs, managing
their income, and watching over every step of her sister's girlhood and womanhood. Two years
before she had placed Lucy in one of the fashionable boarding-schools of Philadelphia, there
to study "music and French," and to perfect herself in that "grace of manner and charm of conversation,"
which the two maiden ladies who presided over its fortunes claimed in their modest advertisements
they were so competent to teach. Part of the curriculum was an enforced absence from home of
two years, during which time none of her own people were to visit her except in case of emergency.

To-night, the once famous house shone with something of its old-time color. The candles were
lighted in the big bronze candelabra--the ones which came from Paris; the best glass and china
and all the old plate were brought out and placed on the sideboard and serving-tables; a wood
fire was started (the nights were yet cold), its cheery blaze lighting up the brass fender
and andirons before which many of Colonel Cobden's cronies had toasted their shins as they
sipped their toddies in the old days; easy-chairs and hair-cloth sofas were drawn from the
walls; the big lamps lighted, and many minor details perfected for the comfort of the expected
guests.

Jane entered the drawing-room in advance of Lucy and was busying herself putting the final
touches to the apartment,--arranging the sprays of blossoms over the clock and under the portrait
of Morton Cobden, which looked calmly down on the room from its place on the walls, when the
door opened softly and Martha--the old nurse had for years been treated as a member of the
family--stepped in, bowing and curtsying as would an old woman in a play, the skirt of her
new black silk gown that Ann Gossaway had made for her held out between her plump fingers,
her mob-cap with its long lace strings bobbing with every gesture. With her rosy cheeks, silver-rimmed
spectacles, self-satisfied smile, and big puffy sleeves, she looked as if she might have stepped
out of one of the old frames lining the walls.

"What do ye think of me, Miss Jane? I'm proud as a peacock--that I am!" she cried, twisting
herself about. "Do ye know, I never thought that skinny dressmaker could do half as well. Is
it long enough?" and she craned her head in the attempt to see the edge of the skirt.

"Fits you beautifully, Martha. You look fine," answered Jane in all sincerity, as she made
a survey of the costume. "How does Lucy like it?"

"The darlin' don't like it at all; she says I look like a pall-bearer, and ye ought to hear
her laughin' at the cap. Is there anything the matter with it? The pastor's wife's got one,
anyhow, and she's a year younger'n me."

"Don't mind her, Martha--she laughs at everything; and how good it is to hear her! She never
saw you look so well," replied Jane, as she moved a jar from a table and placed it on the mantel
to hold the blossoms she had picked in the garden. "What's she doing upstairs so long?"

"Prinkin'--and lookin' that beautiful ye wouldn't know her. But the width and the thickness
of her"--here the wrinkled fingers measured the increase with a half circle in the air--"and
the way she's plumped out--not in one place, but all over--well, I tell ye, ye'd be astonished!
She knows it, too, bless her heart! I don't blame her. Let her git all the comfort she kin
when she's young--that's the time for laughin'--the cryin' always comes later."

No part of Martha's rhapsody over Lucy described Jane. Not in her best moments could she have
been called beautiful--not even to-night when Lucy's home-coming had given a glow to her cheeks
and a lustre to her eyes that nothing else had done for months. Her slender figure, almost
angular in its contour with its closely drawn lines about the hips and back; her spare throat
and neck, straight arms, thin wrists and hands--transparent hands, though exquisitely wrought,
as were those of all her race--all so expressive of high breeding and refinement, carried with
them none of the illusions of beauty. The mould of the head, moreover, even when softened by
her smooth chestnut hair, worn close to her ears and caught up in a coil behind, was too severe
for accepted standards, while her features wonderfully sympathetic as they were, lacked the
finer modeling demanded in perfect types of female loveliness, the eyebrows being almost straight,
the cheeks sunken, with little shadows under the cheek-bones, and the lips narrow and often drawn.

And yet with all these discrepancies and, to some minds, blemishes there was a light in her
deep gray eyes, a melody in her voice, a charm in her manner, a sureness of her being exactly
the sort of woman one hoped she would be, a quick responsiveness to any confidence, all so
captivating and so satisfying that 'those who knew her forgot her slight physical shortcomings
and carried away only the remembrance of one so much out of the common and of so distinguished
a personality that she became ever after the standard by which they judged all good women.

There were times, too--especially whenever Lucy entered the room or her name was mentioned--that
there shone through Jane's eyes a certain instantaneous kindling of the spirit which would
irradiate her whole being as a candle does a lantern--a light betokening not only uncontrollable
tenderness but unspeakable pride, dimmed now and then when some word or act of her charge brought
her face to face with the weight of the responsibility resting upon her--a responsibility far
outweighing that which most mothers would have felt. This so dominated Jane's every motion
that it often robbed her of the full enjoyment of the companionship of a sister so young and
so beautiful.

If Jane, to quote Doctor John, looked like a lily swaying on a slender stem, Lucy, when she
bounded into the room to-night, was a full-blown rose tossed by a summer breeze. She came in
with throat and neck bare; a woman all curves and dimples, her skin as pink as a shell; plump
as a baby, and as fair, and yet with the form of a wood-nymph; dressed in a clinging, soft
gown, the sleeves caught up at the shoulders revealing her beautiful arms, a spray of blossoms
on her bosom, her blue eyes dancing with health, looking twenty rather than seventeen; glad
of her freedom, glad of her home and Jane and Martha, and of the lights and blossoms and the
glint on silver and glass, and of all that made life breathable and livable.

"Oh, but isn't it just too lovely to be at home!" she cried as she skipped about. "No lights
out at nine, no prayers, no getting up at six o'clock and turning your mattress and washing
in a sloppy little washroom. Oh, I'm so happy! I can't realize it's all true." As she spoke
she raised herself on her toes so that she could see her face in the mirror over the mantel.
"Why, do you know, sister," she rattled on, her eyes studying her own face, "that Miss Sarah
used to make us learn a page of dictionary if we talked after the silence bell!"

"You must know the whole book by heart, then, dearie," replied Jane with a smile, as she bent
over a table and pushed back some books to make room for a bowl of arbutus she held in her hand.

"Ah, but she didn't catch us very often. We used to stuff up the cracks in the doors so she
couldn't hear us talk and smother our heads in the pillows. Jonesy, the English teacher, was
the worst." She was still looking in the glass, her fingers busy with the spray of blossoms
on her bosom. "She always wore felt slippers and crept around like a cat. She'd tell on anybody.
We had a play one night in my room after lights were out, and Maria Collins was Claude Melnotte
and I was Pauline. Maria had a mustache blackened on her lips with a piece of burnt cork and
I was all fixed up in a dressing-gown and sash. We never heard Jonesy till she put her hand
on the knob; then we blew out the candle and popped into bed. She smelled the candle-wick and
leaned over and kissed Maria good-night, and the black all came off on her lips, and next day
we got three pages apiece--the mean old thing! How do I look, Martha? Is my hair all right?"
Here she turned her head for the old woman's inspection.

"Beautiful, darlin'. There won't one o' them know ye; they'll think ye're a real livin' princess
stepped out of a picture-book." Martha had not taken her eyes from Lucy since she entered the room.

"See my little beau-catchers," she laughed, twisting her head so that Martha could see the
tiny Spanish curls she had flattened against her temples. "They are for Bart Holt, and I'm
going to cut sister out. Do you think he'll remember me?" she prattled on, arching her neck.

"It won't make any difference if he don't," Martha retorted in a positive tone. "But Cap'n
Nat will, and so will the doctor and Uncle Ephraim and--who's that comin' this early?" and
the old nurse paused and listened to a heavy step on the porch. "It must be the cap'n himself;
there ain't nobody but him's got a tread like that; ye'd think he was trampin' the deck o'
one of his ships."

The door of the drawing-room opened and a bluff, hearty, round-faced man of fifty, his iron-gray
hair standing straight up on his head like a shoe-brush, dressed in a short pea-jacket surmounted
by a low sailor collar and loose necktie, stepped cheerily into the room.

"Ah, Miss Jane!" Somehow all the neighbors, even the most intimate, remembered to prefix "Miss"
when speaking to Jane. "So you've got this fly-away back again? Where are ye? By jingo! let
me look at you. Why! why! why! Did you ever! What have you been doing to yourself, lassie,
that you should shed your shell like a bug and come out with wings like a butterfly? Why you're
the prettiest thing I've seen since I got home from my last voyage."

He had Lucy by both bands now, and was turning her about as if she had been one of Ann Gossaway's
models.

"Have I changed, Captain Holt?"

"No--not a mite. You've got a new suit of flesh and blood on your bones, that's all. And it's
the best in the locker. Well! Well! WELL!" He was still twisting her around. "She does ye proud,
Martha," he called to the old nurse, who was just leaving the room to take charge of the pantry,
now that the guests had begun to arrive. "And so ye're home for good and all, lassie?"

"Yes--isn't it lovely?"

"Lovely? That's no name for it. You'll be settin' the young fellers crazy 'bout here before
they're a week older. Here come two of 'em now."

Lucy turned her head quickly, just as the doctor and Barton Holt reached the door of the drawing-room.
The elder of the two, Doctor John, greeted Jane as if she had been a duchess, bowing low as
he approached her, his eyes drinking in her every movement; then, after a few words, remembering
the occasion as being one in honor of Lucy, he walked slowly toward the young girl.

"Why, Lucy, it's so delightful to get you back!" he cried, shaking her hand warmly. "And you
are looking so well. Poor Martha has been on pins and needles waiting for you. I told her just
how it would be--that she'd lose her little girl--and she has," and he glanced at her admiringly.
"What did she say when she saw you?"

"Oh, the silly old thing began to cry, just as they all do. Have you seen her dog?"

The answer jarred on the doctor, although he excused her in his heart on the ground of her
youth and her desire to appear at ease in talking to him.

"Do you mean Meg?" he asked, scanning her face the closer.

"I don't know what she calls him--but he's the ugliest little beast I ever saw."

"Yes--but so amusing. I never get tired of watching him. What is left of him is the funniest
thing alive. He's better than he looks, though. He and Rex have great times together."

"I wish you would take him, then. I told Martha this morning that he mustn't poke his nose
into my room, and he won't. He's a perfect fright."

"But the dear old woman loves him," he protested with a tender tone in his voice, his eyes
fixed on Lucy.

He had looked into the faces of too many young girls in his professional career not to know
something of what lay at the bottom of their natures. What he saw now came as a distinct surprise.

"I don't care if she does," she retorted; "no, I don't," and she knit her brow and shook her
pretty head as she laughed.

While they stood talking Bart Holt, who had lingered at the threshold, his eyes searching for
the fair arrival, was advancing toward the centre of the room. Suddenly he stood still, his
gaze fixed on the vision of the girl in the clinging dress, with the blossoms resting on her
breast. The curve of her back, the round of the hip; the way her moulded shoulders rose above
the lace of her bodice; the bare, full arms tapering to the wrists;--the color, the movement,
the grace of it all had taken away his breath. With only a side nod of recognition toward Jane,
he walked straight to Lucy and with an "Excuse me," elbowed the doctor out of the way in his
eagerness to reach the girl's side. The doctor smiled at the young man's impetuosity, bent
his head to Lucy, and turned to where Jane was standing awaiting the arrival of her other guests.

The young man extended his hand. "I'm Bart Holt," he exclaimed; "you haven't forgotten me,
Miss Lucy, have you? We used to play together. Mighty glad to see you--been expecting you for
a week."

Lucy colored slightly and arched her head in a coquettish way. His frankness pleased her; so
did the look of unfeigned admiration in his eyes.

"Why, of course I haven't forgotten you, Mr. Holt. It was so nice of you to come," and she
gave him the tips of her fingers--her own eyes meanwhile, in one comprehensive glance, taking
in his round head with its closely cropped curls, searching brown eyes, wavering mouth, broad
shoulders, and shapely body, down to his small, well-turned feet. The young fellow lacked the
polish and well-bred grace of the doctor, just as he lacked his well-cut clothes and distinguished
manners, but there was a sort of easy effrontery and familiar air about him that some of his
women admirers encouraged and others shrank from. Strange to say, this had appealed to Lucy
before he had spoken a word.

"And you've come home for good now, haven't you?" His eyes were still drinking in the beauty
of the girl, his mind neither on his questions nor her answers.

"Yes, forever and ever," she replied, with a laugh that showed her white teeth.

"Did you like it at school?" It was her lips now that held his attention and the little curves
under her dimpled chin. He thought he had never seen so pretty a mouth and chin.

"Not always; but we used to have lots of fun," answered the girl, studying him in return--the
way his cravat was tied and the part of his hair. She thought he had well-shaped ears and that
his nose and eyebrows looked like a picture she had in her room upstairs.

"Come and tell me about it. Let's sit down here," he continued as he drew her to a sofa and
stood waiting until she took her seat.

"Well, I will for a moment, until they begin to come in," she answered, her face all smiles.
She liked the way he behaved towards her--not asking her permission, but taking the responsibility
and by his manner compelling a sort of obedience. "But I can't stay," she added. "Sister won't
like it if I'm not with her to shake hands with everybody."

"Oh, she won't mind me; I'm a great friend of Miss Jane's. Please go on; what kind of fun did
you have? I like to hear about girls' scrapes. We had plenty of them at college, but I couldn't
tell you half of them." He had settled himself beside her now, his appropriating eyes still
taking in her beauty.

"Oh, all kinds," she replied as she bent her head and glanced at the blossoms on her breast
to be assured of their protective covering.

"But I shouldn't think you could have much fun with the teachers watching you every minute,"
said Bart, moving nearer to her and turning his body so he could look squarely into her eyes.

"Yes, but they didn't find out half that was going on." Then she added coyly, "I don't know
whether you can keep a secret--do you tell everything you hear?"

"Never tell anything."

"How do I know?"

"I'll swear it." In proof he held up one hand and closed both eyes in mock reverence as if
he were taking an oath. He was getting more interested now in her talk; up to this time her
beauty had dazzled him. "Never! So help me--" he mumbled impressively.

"Well, one day we were walking out to the park--Now you're sure you won't tell sister, she's
so easily shocked?" The tone was the same, but the inflection was shaded to closer intimacy.

Again Bart cast up his eyes.

"And all the girls were in a string with Miss Griggs, the Latin teacher, in front, and we all
went in a cake shop and got a big piece of gingerbread apiece. We were all eating away hard
as we could when we saw Miss Sarah coming. Every girl let her cake go, and when Miss Sarah
got to us the whole ten pieces were scattered along the sidewalk."

Bart looked disappointed over the mild character of the scrape. From what he had seen of her
he had supposed her adventures would be seasoned with a certain spice of deviltry.

"I wouldn't have done that, I'd have hidden it in my pocket," he replied, sliding down on the
sofa until his head rested on the cushion next her own.

"We tried, but she was too close. Poor old Griggsey got a dreadful scolding. She wasn't like
Miss Jones--she wouldn't tell on the girls."

"And did they let any of the fellows come to see you?" Bart asked.

"No; only brothers and cousins once in a long while. Maria Collins tried to pass one of her
beaux, Max Feilding, off as a cousin, but Miss Sarah went down to see him and poor Maria had
to stay upstairs."

"I'd have got in," said Bart with some emphasis, rousing himself from his position and twisting
his body so he could again look squarely in her face. This escapade was more to his liking.

"How?" asked Lucy in a tone that showed she not only quite believed it, but rather liked him
the better for saying so.

"Oh I don't know. I'd have cooked up some story." He was leaning over now, toying with the
lace that clung to Lucy's arms. "Did you ever have any one of your own friends treated in that
way?"

Jane's voice cut short her answer. She had seen the two completely absorbed in each other,
to the exclusion of the other guests who were now coming in, and wanted Lucy beside her.

The young girl waved her fan gayly in answer, rose to her feet, turned her head close to Bart's,
pointed to the incoming guests, whispered something in his ear that made him laugh, listened
while he whispered to her in return, and in obedience to the summons crossed the room to meet
a group of the neighbors, among them old Judge Woolworthy, in a snuff-colored coat, high black
stock, and bald head, and his bustling little wife. Bart's last whisper to Lucy was in explanation
of the little wife's manner--who now, all bows and smiles, was shaking hands with everybody
about her.

Then came Uncle Ephraim Tipple, and close beside him walked his spouse, Ann, in a camel's-hair
shawl and poke-bonnet, the two preceded by Uncle Ephraim's stentorian laugh, which had been
heard before their feet had touched the porch outside. Mrs. Cromartin now bustled in, accompanied
by her two daughters--slim, awkward girls, both dressed alike in high waists and short frocks;
and after them the Bunsbys, father, mother, and son--all smiles, the last a painfully thin
young lawyer, in a low collar and a shock of whitey-brown hair, "looking like a patent window-mop
resting against a wall," so Lucy described him afterward to Martha when she was putting her
to bed; and finally the Colfords and Bronsons, young and old, together with Pastor Dellenbaugh,
the white-haired clergyman who preached in the only church in Warehold.

When Lucy had performed her duty and the several greetings were over, and Uncle Ephraim had
shaken the hand of the young hostess in true pump-handle fashion, the old man roaring with
laughter all the time, as if it were the funniest thing in the world to find her alive; and
the good clergyman in his mildest and most impressive manner had said she grew more and more
like her mother every day--which was a flight of imagination on the part of the dear man, for
she didn't resemble her in the least; and the two thin girls had remarked that it must be so
"perfectly blissful" to get home; and the young lawyer had complimented her on her wonderful,
almost life-like resemblance to her grand-father, whose portrait hung in the court-house--and
which was nearer the truth--to all of which the young girl replied in her most gracious tones,
thanking them for their kindness in coming to see her and for welcoming her so cordially--the
whole of Lucy's mind once more reverted to Bart.

Indeed, the several lobes of her brain had been working in opposition for the past hour. While
one-half of her mind was concocting polite speeches for her guests the other was absorbed in
the fear that Bart would either get tired of waiting for her return and leave the sofa, or
that some other girl friend of his would claim him and her delightful talk be at an end.

To the young girl fresh from school Bart represented the only thing in the room that was entirely
alive. The others talked platitudes and themselves. He had encouraged her to talk of HERSELF
and of the things she liked. He had, too, about him an assurance and dominating personality
which, although it made her a little afraid of him, only added to his attractiveness.

While she stood wondering how many times the white-haired young lawyer would tell her it was
so nice to have her back, she felt a slight pressure on her arm and turned to face Bart.

"You are wanted, please, Miss Lucy; may I offer you my arm? Excuse me, Bunsby--I'll give her
to you again in a minute."

Lucy slipped her arm into Bart's, and asked simply, "What for?"

"To finish our talk, of course. Do you suppose I'm going to let that tow-head monopolize you?"
he answered, pressing her arm closer to his side with his own.

Lucy laughed and tapped Bart with her fan in rebuke, and then there followed a bit of coquetry
in which the young girl declared that he was "too mean for anything, and that she'd never seen
anybody so conceited, and if he only knew, she might really prefer the 'tow head' to his own;"
to which Bart answered that his only excuse was that he was so lonely he was nearly dead, and
that he had only come to save his life--the whole affair culminating in his conducting her
back to the sofa with a great flourish and again seating himself beside her.

"I've been watching you," he began when he had made her comfortable with a small cushion behind
her shoulders and another for her pretty feet. "You don't act a bit like Miss Jane." As he
spoke he leaned forward and flicked an imaginary something from her bare wrist with that air
which always characterized his early approaches to most women.

"Why?" Lucy asked, pleased at his attentions and thanking him with a more direct look.

"Oh, I don't know. You're more jolly, I think. I don't like girls who turn out to be solemn
after you know them a while; I was afraid you might. You know it's a long time since I saw you."

"Why, then, sister can't be solemn, for everybody says you and she are great friends," she
replied with a light laugh, readjusting the lace of her bodice.

"So we are; nobody about here I think as much of as I do of your sister. She's been mighty
good to me. But you know what I mean: I mean those don't-touch-me kind of girls who are always
thinking you mean a lot of things when you're only trying to be nice and friendly to them.
I like to be a brother to a girl and to go sailing with her, and fishing, and not have her
bother me about her feet getting a little bit wet, and not scream bloody murder when the boat
gives a lurch. That's the kind of girl that's worth having."

"And you don't find them?" laughed Lucy, looking at him out of the corners of her eyes.

"Well, not many. Do you mind little things like that?"

As he spoke his eyes wandered over her bare shoulders until they rested on the blossoms, the
sort of roaming, critical eyes that often cause a woman to wonder whether some part of her
toilet has not been carelessly put together. Then he added, with a sudden lowering of his voice:
"That's a nice posy you've got. Who sent it?" and he bent his head as if to smell the cluster
on her bosom.

Lucy drew back and a slight flush suffused her cheek; his audacity frightened her. She was
fond of admiration, but this way of expressing it was new to her. The young man caught the
movement and recovered himself. He had ventured on a thin spot, as was his custom, and the
sound of the cracking ice had warned him in time.

"Oh, I see, they're apple blossoms," he added carelessly as he straightened up. "We've got
a lot in our orchard. You like flowers, I see." The even tone and perfect self-possession of
the young man reassured her.

"Oh, I adore them; don't you?" Lucy answered in a relieved, almost apologetic voice. She was
sorry she had misjudged him. She liked him rather the better now for her mistake.

"Well, that depends. Apple blossoms never looked pretty to me before; but then it makes a good
deal of difference where they are," answered Bart with a low chuckle.

Jane had been watching the two and had noticed. Bart's position and manner. His easy familiarity
of pose offended her. Instinctively she glanced about the room, wondering if any of her guests
had seen it. That Lucy did not resent it surprised her. She supposed her sister's recent training
would have made her a little more fastidious.

"Come, Lucy," she called gently, moving toward her, "bring Bart over here and join the other
girls."

"All right, Miss Jane, we'll be there in a minute," Bart answered in Lucy's stead. Then he
bent his head and said in a low voice:

"Won't you give me half those blossoms?"

"No; it would spoil the bunch."

"Please--"

"No, not a single one. You wouldn't care for them, anyway."

"Yes, I would." Here he stretched out his hand and touched the blossoms on her neck.

Lucy ducked her head in merry glee, sprang up, and with a triumphant curtsy and a "No, you
don't, sir--not this time," joined her sister, followed by art.

The guests were now separated into big and little groups. Uncle Ephraim and the judge were
hob-nobbing around the fireplace, listening to Uncle Ephraim's stories and joining in the laughter
which every now and then filled the room. Captain Nat was deep in a discussion with Doctor
John over some seafaring matter, and Jane and Mrs. Benson were discussing a local charity with
Pastor Dellenbaugh.

The younger people being left to themselves soon began to pair off, the white-haired young
lawyer disappearing with the older Miss Cromartin and Bart soon following with Lucy:--the outer
porch and the long walk down the garden path among the trees, despite the chilliness of the
night, seemed to be the only place in which they could be comfortable.

During a lull in the discussion of Captain Nat's maritime news and while Mrs. Benson was talking
to the pastor, Doctor John seized the opportunity to seat himself again by Jane.

"Don't you think Lucy improved?" she asked, motioning the doctor to a place beside her.

"She's much more beautiful than I thought she would be," he answered in a hesitating way, looking
toward Lucy, and seating himself in his favorite attitude, hands in his lap, one leg crossed
over the other and hanging straight beside its fellow; only a man like the doctor, of more
than usual repose and of a certain elegance of form, Jane always said, could sit this way any
length of time and be comfortable and unconscious of his posture. Then he added slowly, and
as if he had given the subject some consideration, "You won't keep her long, I'm afraid."

"Oh, don't say that," Jane cried with a nervous start. "I don't know what I would do if she
should marry."

"That don't sound like you, Miss Jane. You would be the first to deny yourself. You are too
good to do otherwise." He spoke with a slight quiver in his voice, and yet with an emphasis
that showed he believed it.

"No; it is you who are good to think so," she replied in a softer tone, bending her head as
she spoke, her eyes intent on her fan. "And now tell me," she added quickly, raising her eyes
to his as if to bar any further tribute he might be on the point of paying to her--"I hear
your mother takes greatly to heart your having refused the hospital appointment."

"Yes, I'm afraid she does. Mother has a good many new-fashioned notions nowadays." He laughed--a
mellow, genial laugh; more in the spirit of apology than of criticism.

"And you don't want to go?" she asked, her eyes fixed on his.

"Want to go? No, why should I? There would be nobody to look after the people here if I went
away. You don't want me to leave, do you?" he added suddenly in an anxious tone.

"Nobody does, doctor," she replied, parrying the question, her face flushing with pleasure.

Here Martha entered the room hurriedly and bending over Jane's shoulder, whispered something
in her ear. The doctor straightened himself and leaned back out of hearing.

"Well, but I don't think she will take cold," Jane whispered in return, looking up into Martha's
face. "Has she anything around her?"

"Yes, your big red cloak; but the child's head is bare and there's mighty little on her neck,
and she ought to come in. The wind's begun to blow and it's gettin' cold."

"Where is she?" Jane continued, her face showing her surprise at Martha's statement.

"Out by the gate with that dare-devil. He don't care who he gives cold. I told her she'd get
her death, but she won't mind me."

"Why, Martha, how can you talk so!" Jane retorted, with a disapproving frown. Then raising
her voice so that the doctor could be brought into the conversation, she added in her natural
tone, "Whom did you say she was with?"

"Bart Holt," cried Martha aloud, nodding to the doctor as if to get his assistance in saving
her bairn from possible danger.

Jane colored slightly and turned to Doctor John.

"You go please, doctor, and bring them all in, or you may have some new patients on your hands."

The doctor looked from one to the other in doubt as to the cause of his selection, but Jane's
face showed none of the anxiety in Martha's.

"Yes, certainly," he answered simply; "but I'll get myself into a hornet's nest. These young
people don't like to be told what's good for them," he added with a laugh, rising from his
seat. "And after that you'll permit me to slip away without telling anybody, won't you? My
last minute has come," and he glanced at his watch.

"Going so soon? Why, I wanted you to stay for supper. It will be ready in a few minutes." Her
voice had lost its buoyancy now. She never wanted him to go. She never let him know it, but
it pained her all the same.

"I would like to, but I cannot." All his heart was in his eyes as he spoke.

"Someone ill?" she asked.

"Yes, Fogarty's child. The little fellow may develop croup before morning. I saw him to-day,
and his pulse was not right, he's a sturdy little chap with a thick neck, and that kind always
suffers most. If he's worse Fogarty is to send word to my office," he added, holding out his
hand in parting.

"Can I help?" Jane asked, retaining the doctor's hand in hers as if to get the answer.

"No, I'll watch him closely. Good-night," and with a smile he bent his head and withdrew.

Martha followed the doctor to the outer door, and then grumbling her satisfaction went back
to the pantry to direct the servants in arranging upon the small table in the supper-room the
simple refreshments which always characterized the Cobdens' entertainments.

Soon the girls and their beaux came trooping in to join their elders on the way to the supper-room.
Lucy hung back until the last (she had not liked the doctor's interference), Jane's long red
cloak draped from her shoulders, the hood hanging down her back, her cheeks radiant, her beautiful
blond hair ruffled with the night wind, an aureole of gold framing her face. Bart followed
close behind, a pleased, almost triumphant smile playing about his lips.

He had carried his point. The cluster of blossoms which had rested upon Lucy's bosom was pinned
to the lapel of his coat.

CHAPTER III

LITTLE TOD FOGARTY

With the warmth of Jane's parting grasp lingering in his own Doctor John untied the mare, sprang
into his gig, and was soon clear of the village and speeding along the causeway that stretched
across the salt marshes leading past his own home to the inner beach beyond. As he drove slowly
through his own gate, so as to make as little noise as possible, the cottage, blanketed under
its clinging vines, seemed in the soft light of the low-lying moon to be fast asleep. Only
one eye was open; this was the window of his office, through which streamed the glow of a lamp,
its light falling on the gravel path and lilac bushes beyond.

Rex gave a bark of welcome and raced beside the wheels.

"Keep still, old dog! Down, Rex! Been lonely, old fellow?"

The dog in answer leaped in the air as his master drew rein, and with eager springs tried to
reach his hands, barking all the while in short and joyful yelps.

Doctor John threw the lines across the dash-board, jumped from the gig, and pushing open the
hall door--it was never locked--stepped quickly into his office, and turning up the lamp, threw
himself into a chair at his desk. The sorrel made no attempt to go to the stable--both horse
and man were accustomed to delays--sometimes of long hours and sometimes of whole nights.

The appointments and fittings of the office--old-fashioned and practical as they were--reflected
in a marked degree the aims and tastes of the occupant. While low bookcases stood against the
walls surmounted by rows of test-tubes, mortars and pestles, cases of instruments, and a line
of bottles labelled with names of various mixtures (in those days doctors were chemists as
well as physicians), there could also be found a bust of the young Augustus; one or two lithographs
of Heidelberg, where he had studied; and some line engravings in black frames--one a view of
Oxford with the Thames wandering by, another a portrait of the Duke of Wellington, and still
another of Nell Gwynn. Scattered about the room were easy-chairs and small tables piled high
with books, a copy of Tacitus and an early edition of Milton being among them, while under
the wide, low window stood a narrow bench crowded with flowering plants in earthen pots, the
remnants of the winter's bloom. There were also souvenirs of his earlier student life--a life
which few of his friends in Warehold, except Jane Cobden, knew or cared anything about--including
a pair of crossed foils and two boxing-gloves; these last hung over a portrait of Macaulay.

What the place lacked was the touch of a woman's hand in vase, flower, or ornament--a touch
that his mother, for reasons of her own, never gave and which no other woman had yet dared suggest.

For an instant the doctor sat with his elbows on the desk in deep thought, the light illuminating
his calm, finely chiselled features and hands--those thin, sure hands which could guide a knife
within a hair's breadth of instant death--and leaning forward, with an indrawn sigh examined
some letters lying under his eye. Then, as if suddenly remembering, he glanced at the office
slate, his face lighting up as he found it bare of any entry except the date.

Rex had been watching his master with ears cocked, and was now on his haunches, cuddling close,
his nose resting on the doctor's knee. Doctor John laid his hand on the dog's head and smoothing
the long, silky ears, said with a sigh of relief, as he settled himself in his chair:

"Little Tod must be better, Rex, and we are going to have a quiet night."

The anxiety over his patients relieved, his thoughts reverted to Jane and their talk. He remembered
the tone of her voice and the quick way in which she had warded off his tribute to her goodness;
he recalled her anxiety over Lucy; he looked again into the deep, trusting eyes that gazed
into his as she appealed to him for assistance; he caught once more the poise of the head as
she listened to his account of little Tod Fogarty's illness and heard her quick offer to help,
and felt for the second time her instant tenderness and sympathy, never withheld from the sick
and suffering, and always so generous and spontaneous.

A certain feeling of thankfulness welled up in his heart. Perhaps she had at last begun to
depend upon him--a dependence which, with a woman such as Jane, must, he felt sure, eventually
end in love.

With these thoughts filling his mind, he settled deeper in his chair. These were the times
in which he loved to think of her--when, with pipe in mouth, he could sit alone by his fire
and build castles in the coals, every rosy mountain-top aglow with the love he bore her; with
no watchful mother's face trying to fathom his thoughts; only his faithful dog stretched at
his feet.

Picking up his brierwood, lying on a pile of books on his desk, and within reach of his hand,
he started to fill the bowl, when a scrap of paper covered with a scrawl written in pencil
came into view. He turned it to the light and sprang to his feet.

"Tod worse," he said to himself. "I wonder how long this has been here."

The dog was now beside him looking up into the doctor's eyes. It was not the first time that
he had seen his master's face grow suddenly serious as he had read the tell-tale slate or had
opened some note awaiting his arrival.

Doctor John lowered the lamp, stepped noiselessly to the foot of the winding stairs that led
to the sleeping rooms above--the dog close at his heels, watching his every movement--and called
gently:

"Mother! mother, dear!" He never left his office when she was at home and awake without telling
her where he was going.

No one answered.

"She is asleep. I will slip out without waking her. Stay where you are, Rex--I will be back
some time before daylight," and throwing his night-cloak about his shoulders, he started for
his gig.

The dog stopped with his paws resting on the outer edge of the top step of the porch, the line
he was not to pass, and looked wistfully after the doctor. His loneliness was to continue,
and his poor master to go out into the night alone. His tail ceased to wag, only his eyes moved.

Once outside Doctor John patted the mare's neck as if in apology and loosened the reins. "Come,
old girl," he said; "I'm sorry, but it can't be helped," and springing into the gig, he walked
the mare clear of the gravel beyond the gate, so as not to rouse his mother, touched her lightly
with the whip, and sent her spinning along the road on the way to Fogarty's.

The route led toward the sea, branching off within the sight of the cottage porch, past the
low, conical ice-houses used by the fishermen in which to cool their fish during the hot weather,
along the sand-dunes, and down a steep grade to the shore. The tide was making flood, and the
crawling surf spent itself in long shelving reaches of foam. These so packed the sand that
the wheels of the gig hardly made an impression upon it. Along this smooth surface the mare
trotted briskly, her nimble feet wet with the farthest reaches of the incoming wash.

As he approached the old House of Refuge, black in the moonlight and looking twice its size
in the stretch of the endless beach, he noticed for the hundredth time how like a crouching
woman it appeared, with its hipped roof hunched up like a shoulder close propped against the
dune and its overhanging eaves but a draped hood shading its thoughtful brow; an illusion which
vanished when its square form, with its wide door and long platform pointing to the sea, came
into view.

More than once in its brief history the doctor had seen the volunteer crew, aroused from their
cabins along the shore by the boom of a gun from some stranded vessel, throw wide its door
and with a wild cheer whirl the life-boat housed beneath its roof into the boiling surf, and
many a time had he helped to bring back to life the benumbed bodies drawn from the merciless
sea by their strong arms.

There were other houses like it up and down the coast. Some had remained unused for years,
desolate and forlorn, no unhappy ship having foundered or struck the breakers within their
reach; others had been in constant use. The crews were gathered from the immediate neighborhood
by the custodian, who was the only man to receive pay from the Government. If he lived near
by he kept the key; if not, the nearest fisherman held it. Fogarty, the father of the sick
child, and whose cabin was within gunshot of this house, kept the key this year. No other protection
was given these isolated houses and none was needed. These black-hooded Sisters of the Coast,
keeping their lonely vigils, were as safe from beach-combers and sea-prowlers as their white-capped
namesakes would have been threading the lonely suburbs of some city.

The sound of the mare's feet on the oyster-shell path outside his cabin brought Fogarty, a
tall, thin, weather-beaten fisherman, to the door. He was still wearing his hip-boots and sou'wester--he
was just in from the surf--and stood outside the low doorway with a lantern. Its light streamed
over the sand and made wavering patterns about the mare's feet.

"Thought ye'd never come, Doc," he whispered, as he threw the blanket over the mare. "Wife's
nigh crazy. Tod's fightin' for all he's worth, but there ain't much breath left in him. I was
off the inlet when it come on."

The wife, a thick-set woman in a close-fitting cap, her arms bared to the elbow, her petticoats
above the tops of her shoes, met him inside the door. She had been crying and her eyelids were
still wet and her cheeks swollen. The light of the ship's lantern fastened to the wall fell
upon a crib in the corner, on which lay the child, his short curls, tangled with much tossing,
smoothed back from his face. The doctor's ears had caught the sound of the child's breathing
before he entered the room.

"When did this come on?" Doctor John asked, settling down beside the crib upon a stool that
the wife had brushed off with her apron.

"'Bout sundown, sir," she answered, her tear-soaked eyes fixed on little Tod's face. Her teeth
chattered as she spoke and her arms were tight pressed against her sides, her fingers opening
and shutting in her agony. Now and then in her nervousness she would wipe her forehead with
the back of her wrist as if it were wet, or press her two fingers deep into her swollen cheek.

Fogarty had followed close behind the doctor and now stood looking down at the crib with fixed
eyes, his thin lips close shut, his square jaw sunk in the collar of his shirt. There were
no dangers that the sea could unfold which this silent surfman had not met and conquered, and
would again. Every fisherman on the coast knew Fogarty's pluck and skill, and many of them
owed their lives to him. To-night, before this invisible power slowly closing about his child
he was as powerless as a skiff without oars caught in the swirl of a Barnegat tide.

"Why didn't you let me know sooner, Fogarty? You understood my directions?" Doctor John asked
in a surprised tone. "You shouldn't have left him without letting me know." It was only when
his orders were disobeyed and life endangered that he spoke thus.

The fisherman turned his head and was about to reply when the wife stepped in front of him.

"My husband got ketched in the inlet, sir," she said in an apologetic tone, as if to excuse
his absence. "The tide set ag'in him and he had hard pullin' makin' the p'int. It cuts in turrible
there, you know, doctor. Tod seemed to be all right when he left him this mornin'. I had husband's
mate take the note I wrote ye. Mate said nobody was at home and he laid it under your pipe.
He thought ye'd sure find it there when ye come in."

Doctor John was not listening to her explanations; he was leaning over the rude crib, his ear
to the child's breast. Regaining his position, he smoothed the curls tenderly from the forehead
of the little fellow, who still lay with eyes closed, one stout brown hand and arm clear of
the coverlet, and stood watching his breathing. Every now and then a spasm of pain would cross
the child's face; the chubby hand would open convulsively and a muffled cry escape him. Doctor
John watched his breathing for some minutes, laid his hand again on the child's forehead, and
rose from the stool.

"Start up that fire, Fogarty," he said in a crisp tone, turning up his shirt-cuffs, slipping
off his evening coat, and handing the garment to the wife, who hung it mechanically over a
chair, her eyes all the time searching Doctor John's face for some gleam of hope.

"Now get a pan," he continued, "fill it with water and some corn-meal, and get me some cotton
cloth--half an apron, piece of an old petticoat, anything, but be quick about it."

The woman, glad of something to do, hastened to obey. Somehow, the tones of his voice had put
new courage into her heart. Fogarty threw a heap of driftwood on the smouldering fire and filled
the kettle; the dry splinters crackled into a blaze.

The noise aroused the child.

The doctor held up his finger for silence and again caressed the boy's forehead. Fogarty, with
a fresh look of alarm in his face, tiptoed back of the crib and stood behind the restless sufferer.
Under the doctor's touch the child once more became quiet.

"Is he bad off?" the wife murmured when the doctor moved to the fire and began stirring the
mush she was preparing. "The other one went this way; we can't lose him. You won't lose him,
will ye, doctor, dear? I don't want to live if this one goes. Please, doctor--"

The doctor looked into the wife's eyes, blurred with tears, and laid his hand tenderly on her
shoulder.

"Keep a good heart, wife," he said; "we'll pull him through. Tod is a tough little chap with
plenty of fight in him yet. I've seen them much worse. It will soon be over; don't worry."

Mrs. Fogarty's eyes brightened and even the fisherman's grim face relaxed. Silent men in grave
crises suffer most; the habit of their lives precludes the giving out of words that soothe
and heal; when others speak them, they sink into their thirsty souls like drops of rain after
a long drought. It was just such timely expressions as these that helped Doctor John's patients
most--often their only hope hung on some word uttered with a buoyancy of spirit that for a
moment stifled all their anxieties.

The effect of the treatment began to tell upon the little sufferer--his breathing became less
difficult, the spasms less frequent. The doctor whispered the change to the wife, sitting close
at his elbow, his impassive face brightening as he spoke; there was an oven chance now for
the boy's life.

The vigil continued.

No one moved except Fogarty, who would now and then tiptoe quickly to the hearth, add a fresh
log to the embers, and as quickly move back to his position behind the child's crib. The rising
and falling of the blaze, keeping rhythm, as it were, to the hopes and fears of the group,
lighted up in turn each figure in the room. First the doctor sitting with hands resting on
his knees, his aquiline nose and brow clearly outlined against the shadowy background in the
gold chalk of the dancing flames, his black evening clothes in strong contrast to the high
white of the coverlet, framing the child's face like a nimbus. Next the bent body of the wife,
her face in half-tones, her stout shoulders in high relief, and behind, swallowed up in the
gloom, out of reach of the fire-. gleam, the straight, motionless form of the fisherman, standing
with folded arms, grim and silent, his unseen eyes fixed on his child.

Far into the night, and until the gray dawn streaked the sky, this vigil continued; the doctor,
assisted by Fogarty and the wife, changing the poultices, filling the child's lungs with hot
steam by means of a paper funnel, and encouraging the mother by his talk. At one time he would
tell her in half-whispered tones of a child who had recovered and who had been much weaker
than this one. Again he would turn to Fogarty and talk of the sea, of the fishing outside the
inlet, of the big three-masted schooner which had been built by the men at Tom's River, of
the new light they thought of building at Barnegat to take the place of the old one--anything
to divert their minds and lessen their anxieties, stopping only to note the sound of every
cough the boy gave or to change the treatment as the little sufferer struggled on fighting
for his life.

When the child dozed no one moved, no word was spoken. Then in the silence there would come
to their ears above the labored breathing of the boy the long swinging tick of the clock, dull
and ominous, as if tolling the minutes of a passing life; the ceaseless crunch of the sea,
chewing its cud on the beach outside or the low moan of the outer bar turning restlessly on
its bed of sand.

Suddenly, and without warning, and out of an apparent sleep, the child started up from his
pillow with staring eyes and began beating the air for breath.

The doctor leaned quickly forward, listened for a moment, his ear to the boy's chest, and said
in a quiet, restrained voice:

"Go into the other room, Mrs. Fogarty, and stay there till I call you." The woman raised her
eyes to his and obeyed mechanically. She was worn out, mind and body, and had lost her power
of resistance.

As the door shut upon her Doctor John sprang from the stool, caught the lamp from the wall,
handed it to Fogarty, and picking the child up from the crib, laid it flat upon his knees.

He now slipped his hand into his pocket and took from it a leather case filled with instruments.

"Hold the light, Fogarty," he said in a firm, decided tone, "and keep your nerve. I thought
he'd pull through without it, but he'll strangle if I don't."

"What ye goin' to do--not cut him?" whispered the fisherman in a trembling voice.

"Yes. It's his only chance. I've seen it coming on for the last hour--no nonsense now. Steady,
old fellow. It'll be over in a minute. ... There, my boy, that'll help you. Now, Fogarty, hand
me that cloth. ... All right, little man; don't cry; it's all over. Now open the door and let
your wife in," and he laid the child back on the pillow.

When the doctor took the blanket from the sorrel tethered outside Fogarty's cabin and turned
his horse's head homeward the sails of the fishing-boats lying in a string on the far horizon
flashed silver in the morning sun, His groom met him at the stable door, and without a word
led the mare into the barn.

The lamp in his study was still burning in yellow mockery of the rosy dawn. He laid his case
of instruments on the desk, hung his cloak and hat to a peg in the closet, and ascended the
staircase on the way to his bedroom. As he passed his mother's open door she heard his step.

"Why, it's broad daylight, son," she called in a voice ending in a yawn.

"Yes, mother."

"Where have you been?"

"To see little Tod Fogarty," he answered simply.

"What's the matter with him?"

"Croup."

"Is he going to die?"

"No, not this time."

"Well, what did you stay out all night for?" The voice had now grown stronger, with a petulant
tone through it.

"Well, I could hardly help it. They are very simple people, and were so badly frightened that
they were helpless. It's the only child they have left to them--the last one died of croup."

"Well, are you going to turn nurse for half the paupers in the county? All children have croup,
and they don't all die!" The petulant voice had now developed into one of indignation.

"No, mother, but I couldn't take any risks. This little chap is worth saving."

There came a pause, during which the tired man waited patiently.

"You were at the Cobdens'?"

"Yes; or I should have reached Fogarty's sooner."

"And Miss Jane detained you, of course."

"No, mother."

"Good-night, John."

"Say rather 'Good-day,' mother," he answered with a smile and continued on to his room.

CHAPTER IV

ANN GOSSAWAY'S RED CLOAK

The merrymakings at Yardley continued for weeks, a new impetus and flavor being lent them by
the arrival of two of Lucy's friends--her schoolmate and bosom companion, Maria Collins, of
Trenton, and Maria's devoted admirer, Max Feilding, of Walnut Hill, Philadelphia.

Jane, in her joy over Lucy's home-coming, and in her desire to meet her sister's every wish,
gladly welcomed the new arrivals, although Miss Collins, strange to say, had not made a very
good impression upon her. Max she thought better of. He was a quiet, well-bred young fellow;
older than either Lucy or Maria, and having lived abroad a year, knew something of the outside
world. Moreover, their families had always been intimate in the old days, his ancestral home
being always open to Jane's mother when a girl.

The arrival of these two strangers only added to the general gayety. Picnics were planned to
the woods back of Warehold to which the young people of the town were invited, and in which
Billy Tatham with his team took a prominent part. Sailing and fishing parties outside of Barnegat
were gotten up; dances were held in the old parlor, and even tableaux were arranged under Max's
artistic guidance. In one of these Maria wore a Spanish costume fashioned out of a white lace
shawl belonging to Jane's grand-mother draped over her head and shoulders, and made the more
bewitching by a red japonica fixed in her hair, and Lucy appeared as a dairy-maid decked out
in one of Martha's caps, altered to fit her shapely head.

The village itself was greatly stirred.

"Have you seen them two fly-up-the-creeks?" Billy Tatham, the stage-driver, asked of Uncle
Ephraim Tipple as he was driving him down to the boat-landing.

"No, what do they look like?"

"The He-one had on a two-inch hat with a green ribbon and wore a white bob-tail coat that 'bout
reached to the top o' his pants. Looks like he lived on water-crackers and milk, his skin's
that white. The She-one had a set o' hoops on her big as a circus tent. Much as I could do
to git her in the 'bus--as it was, she come in sideways. And her trunk! Well, it oughter been
on wheels--one o' them travellin' houses. I thought one spell I'd take the old plug out the
shafts and hook on to it and git it up that-a-way."

"Some of Lucy's chums, I guess," chuckled Uncle Ephraim. "Miss Jane told me they were coming.
How long are they going to stay?"

"Dunno. Till they git fed up and fattened, maybe. If they was mine I'd have killin' time to-day."

Ann Gossaway and some of her cronies also gave free rein to their tongues.

"Learned them tricks at a finishin' school, did they?" broke out the dressmaker. (Lucy had
been the only young woman in Warehold who had ever enjoyed that privilege.) "Wearin' each other's
hats, rollin' round in the sand, and hollerin' so you could hear 'em clear to the lighthouse.
If I had my way I'd finish 'em, And that's where they'll git if they don't mind, and quick, too!"

The Dellenbaughs, Cromartins, and Bunsbys, being of another class, viewed the young couple's
visit in a different light. "Mr. Feilding has such nice hands and wears such lovely cravats,"
the younger Miss Cromartin said, and "Miss Collins is too sweet for anything." Prim Mr. Bunsby,
having superior notions of life and deportment, only shook his head. He looked for more dignity,
he said; but then this Byronic young man had not been invited to any of the outings.

In all these merrymakings and outings Lucy was the central figure. Her beauty, her joyous nature,
her freedom from affectation and conventionality, her love of the out-of-doors, her pretty
clothes and the way she wore them, all added to her popularity. In the swing and toss of her
freedom, her true temperament developed. She was like a summer rose, making everything and
everybody glad about her, loving the air she breathed as much for the color it put into her
cheeks as for the new bound it gave to her blood. Just as she loved the sunlight for its warmth
and the dip and swell of the sea for its thrill. So, too, when the roses were a glory of bloom,
not only would she revel in the beauty of the blossoms, but intoxicated by their color and
fragrance, would bury her face in the wealth of their abundance, taking in great draughts of
their perfume, caressing them with her cheeks, drinking in the honey of their petals.

This was also true of her voice--a rich, full, vibrating voice, that dominated the room and
thrilled the hearts of all who heard her. When she sang she sang as a bird sings, as much to
relieve its own overcharged little body, full to bursting with the music in its soul, as to
gladden the surrounding woods with its melody--because, too, she could not help it and because
the notes lay nearest her bubbling heart and could find their only outlet through the lips.

Bart was her constant companion. Under his instructions she had learned to hold the tiller
in sailing in and out of the inlet; to swim over hand; to dive from a plank, no matter how
high the jump; and to join in all his outdoor sports. Lucy had been his constant inspiration
in all of this. She had surveyed the field that first night of their meeting and had discovered
that the young man's personality offered the only material in Warehold available for her purpose.
With him, or someone like him--one who had leisure and freedom, one who was quick and strong
and skilful (and Bart was all of these)--the success of her summer would be assured. Without
him many of her plans could not be carried out.

And her victory over him had been an easy one. Held first by the spell of her beauty and controlled
later by her tact and stronger will, the young man's effrontery--almost impudence at times--had
changed to a certain respectful subservience, which showed itself in his constant effort to
please and amuse her. When they were not sailing they were back in the orchard out of sight
of the house, or were walking together nobody knew where. Often Bart would call for her immediately
after breakfast, and the two would pack a lunch-basket and be gone all day, Lucy arranging
the details of the outing, and Bart entering into them with a dash and an eagerness which,
to a man of his temperament, cemented the bond between them all the closer. Had they been two
fabled denizens of the wood--she a nymph and he a dryad--they could not have been more closely
linked with sky and earth.

As for Jane, she watched the increasing intimacy with alarm. She had suddenly become aroused
to the fact that Lucy's love affair with Bart was going far beyond the limits of prudence.
The son of Captain Nathaniel Holt, late of the Black Ball Line of packets, would always be
welcome as a visitor at the home, the captain being an old and tried friend of her father's;
but neither Bart's education nor prospects, nor, for that matter, his social position--a point
which usually had very little weight with Jane--could possibly entitle him to ask the hand
of the granddaughter of Archibald Cobden in marriage. She began to regret that she had thrown
them together. Her own ideas of reforming him had never contemplated any such intimacy as now
existed between the young man and her sister. The side of his nature which he had always shown
her had been one of respectful attention to her wishes; so much so that she had been greatly
encouraged in her efforts to make something more of him than even his best friends predicted
could be done; but she had never for one instant intended that her friendly interest should
go any further, nor could she have conceived of such an issue.

And yet Jane did nothing to prevent the meetings and outings of the young couple, even after
Maria's and Max's departure.

When Martha, in her own ever-increasing anxiety, spoke of the growing intimacy she looked grave,
but she gave no indication of her own thoughts. Her pride prevented her discussing the situation
with the old nurse and her love for Lucy from intervening in her pleasures.

"She has been cooped up at school so long, Martha, dear," she answered in extenuation, "that
I hate to interfere in anything she wants to do. She is very happy; let her alone. I wish,
though, she would return some of the calls of these good people who have been so kind to her.
Perhaps she will if you speak to her. But don't worry about Bart; that will wear itself out.
All young girls must have their love-affairs."

Jane's voice had lacked the ring of true sincerity when she spoke about "wearing itself out,"
and Martha had gone to her room more dissatisfied than before. This feeling became all the
more intense when, the next day, from her window she watched Bart tying on Lucy's hat, puffing
out the big bow under her chin, smoothing her hair from the flying strings. Lucy's eyes were
dancing, her face turned toward Bart's, her pretty lips near his own. There was a knot or a
twist, or a collection of knots and twists, or perhaps Bart's fingers bungled, for minutes
passed before the hat could be fastened to suit either of them. Martha's head had all this
time been thrust out of the easement, her gaze apparently fixed on a birdcage hung from a hook
near the shutter.

Bart caught her eye and whispered to Lucy that that "old spy-cat" was watching them; whereupon
Lucy faced about, waved her hand to the old nurse, and turning quickly, raced up the orchard
and out of sight, followed by Bart carrying a shawl for them to sit upon.

After that Martha, unconsciously, perhaps, to herself, kept watch, so far as she could, upon
their movements, without, as she thought, betraying herself: making excuses to go to the village
when they two went off together in that direction; traversing the orchard, ostensibly looking
for Meg when she knew all the time that the dog was sound asleep in the woodshed; or yielding
to a sudden desire to give the rascal a bath whenever Lucy announced that she and Bart were
going to spend the morning down by the water.

As the weeks flew by and Lucy had shown no willingness to assume her share of any of the responsibilities
of the house,--any that interfered with her personal enjoyment,--Jane became more and more
restless and unhappy. The older village people had shown her sister every attention, she said
to herself,--more than was her due, considering her youth,--and yet Lucy had never crossed
any one of their thresholds. She again pleaded with the girl to remember her social duties
and to pay some regard to the neighbors who had called upon her and who had shown her so much
kindness; to which the happy-hearted sister had laughed back in reply:

"What for, you dear sister? These old fossils don't want to see me, and I'm sure I don't want
to see them. Some of them give me the shivers, they are so prim."

It was with glad surprise, therefore, that Jane heard Lucy say in Martha's hearing one bright
afternoon:

"Now, I'm going to begin, sister, and you won't have to scold me any more. Everyone of these
old tabbies I will take in a row: Mrs. Cavendish first, and then the Cromartins, and the balance
of the bunch when I can reach them. I am going to Rose Cottage to see Mrs. Cavendish this very
afternoon."

The selection of Mrs. Cavendish as first on her list only increased Jane's wonder. Rose Cottage
lay some two miles from Warehold, near the upper end of the beach, and few of their other friends
lived near it. Then again, Jane knew that Lucy had not liked the doctor's calling her into
the house the night of her arrival, and had heretofore made one excuse after another when urged
to call on his mother. Her delight, therefore, over Lucy's sudden sense of duty was all the
more keen.

"I'll go with you, darling," she answered, slipping her arm about Lucy's waist, "and we'll
take Meg for a walk."

So they started, Lucy in her prettiest frock and hat and Jane with her big red cloak over her
arm to protect the young girl from the breeze from the sea, which in the early autumn was often
cool, especially if they should sit out on Mrs. Cavendish's piazza.

The doctor's mother met them on the porch. She had seen them enter the garden gate, and had
left her seat by the window, and was standing on the top step to welcome them. Rex, as usual,
in the doctor's absence, did the honors of the office. He loved Jane, and always sprang straight
at her, his big paws resting on her shoulders. These courtesies, however, he did not extend
to Meg. The high-bred setter had no other salutation for the clay-colored remnant than a lifting
of his nose, a tightening of his legs, and a smothered growl when Meg ventured too near his
lordship.

"Come up, my dear, and let me look at you," were Mrs. Cavendish's first words of salutation
to Lucy. "I hear you have quite turned the heads of all the gallants in Warehold. John says
you are very beautiful, and you know the doctor is a good judge, is he not, Miss Jane?" she
added, holding out her hands to them both. "And he's quite right; you are just like your dear
mother, who was known as the Rose of Barnegat long before you were born. Shall we sit here,
or will you come into my little salon for a cup of tea?" It was always a salon to Mrs. Cavendish,
never a "sitting-room."

"Oh, please let me sit here," Lucy answered, checking a rising smile at the word, "the view
is so lovely," and without further comment or any reference to the compliments showered upon
her, she took her seat upon the top step and began to play with Rex, who had already offered
to make friends with her, his invariable habit with well-dressed people.

Jane meanwhile improved the occasion to ask the doctor's mother about the hospital they were
building near Barnegat, and whether she and one or two of the other ladies at Warehold would
not be useful as visitors, and, perhaps, in case of emergency, as nurses.

While the talk was in progress Lucy sat smoothing Rex's silky ears, listening to every word
her hostess spoke, watching her gestures and the expressions that crossed her face, and settling
in her mind for all time, after the manner of young girls, what sort of woman the doctor's
mother might be; any opinions she might have had two years before being now outlawed by this
advanced young woman in her present mature judgment.

In that comprehensive glance, with the profound wisdom of her seventeen summers to help her,
she had come to the conclusion that Mrs. Cavendish was a high-strung, nervous, fussy little
woman of fifty, with an outward show of good-will and an inward intention to rip everybody
up the back who opposed her; proud of her home, of her blood, and of her son, and determined,
if she could manage it, to break off his attachment for Jane, no matter at what cost. This
last Lucy caught from a peculiar look in the little old woman's eyes and a slightly scornful
curve of the lower lip as she listened to Jane's talk about the hospital, all of which was
lost on "plain Jane Cobden," as the doctor's mother invariably called her sister behind her back.

Then the young mind-reader turned her attention to the house and grounds and the buildings
lying above and before her, especially to the way the matted vines hung to the porches and
clambered over the roof and dormers. Later on she listened to Mrs. Cavendish's description
of its age and ancestry: How it had come down to her from her grandfather, whose large estate
was near Trenton, where as a girl she had spent her life; how in those days it was but a small
villa to which old Nicholas Erskine, her great-uncle, would bring his guests when the August
days made Trenton unbearable; and how in later years under the big trees back of the house
and over the lawn--"you can see them from where you sit, my dear"--tea had been served to twenty
or more of "the first gentlemen and ladies of the land."

Jane had heard it all a dozen times before, and so had every other visitor at Rose Cottage,
but to Lucy it was only confirmation of her latter-day opinion of her hostess. Nothing, however,
could be more gracious than the close attention which the young girl gave Mrs. Cavendish's
every word when the talk was again directed to her, bending her pretty head and laughing at
the right time--a courtesy which so charmed the dear lady that she insisted on giving first
Lucy, and then Jane, a bunch of roses from her "own favorite bush" before the two girls took
their leave.

With these evidences of her delight made clear, Lucy pushed Rex from her side--he had become
presuming and had left the imprint of his dusty paw upon her spotless frock--and with the remark
that she had other visits to pay, her only regret being that this one was so short, she got
up from her seat on the step, called Meg, and stood waiting for Jane with some slight impatience
in her manner.

Jane immediately rose from her chair. She had been greatly pleaded at the impression Lucy had
made. Her manner, her courtesy, her respect for the older woman, her humoring her whims, show
her to be the daughter of a Cobden. As to her own place during the visit, she had never given
it a thought. She would always be willing to act as foil to her accomplished, brilliant sister
if by so doing she could make other people love Lucy the more.

As they walked through the doctor's study, Mrs. Cavendish preceding them, Jane lingered for
a moment and gave a hurried glance about her. There stood his chair and his lounge where he
had thrown himself so often when tired out. There, too, was the closet where he hung his coat
and hat, and the desk covered with books and papers. A certain feeling of reverence not unmixed
with curiosity took possession of her, as when one enters a sanctuary in the absence of the
priest. For an instant she passed her hand gently over the leather back of the chair where
his head rested, smoothing it with her fingers. Then her eyes wandered over the room, noting
each appointment in detail. Suddenly a sense of injustice rose in her mind as she thought that
nothing of beauty had ever been added to these plain surroundings; even the plants in the boxes
by the windows looked half faded. With a quick glance at the open door she slipped a rose from
the bunch in her hand, leaned over, and with the feeling of a devotee laying an offering on
the altar, placed the flower hurried on the doctor's slate. Then she joined Mrs. Cavendish.

Lucy walked slowly from the gate, her eyes every now and then turned to the sea. When she and
Jane had reached the cross-road that branched off toward the beach--it ran within sight of
Mrs. Cavendish's windows--Lucy said:

"The afternoon is so lovely I'm not going to pay any more visits, sister. Suppose I go to the
beach and give Meg a bath. You won't mind, will you? Come, Meg!"

"Oh, how happy you will make him!" cried Jane. "But you are not dressed warm enough, dearie.
You know how cool it gets toward evening. Here, take my cloak. Perhaps I'd better go with you--"

"No, do you keep on home. I want to see if the little wretch will be contented with me alone.
Good-by," and without giving her sister time to protest, she called to Meg, and with a wave
of her hand, the red cloak flying from her shoulders, ran toward the beach, Meg bounding after her.

Jane waved back in answer, and kept her eyes on the graceful figure skipping along the road,
her head and shoulders in silhouette against the blue sea, her white skirts brushing the yellow
grass of the sand-dune. All the mother-love in her heart welled up in her breast. She was so
proud of her, so much in love with her, so thankful for her! All these foolish love affairs
and girl fancies would soon be over and Bart and the others like him out of Lucy's mind and
heart. Why worry about it? Some great strong soul would come by and by and take this child
in his arms and make a woman of her. Some strong soul--

She stopped short in her walk and her thoughts went back to the red rose lying on the doctor's
desk.

"Will he know?" she said to herself; "he loves flowers so, and I don't believe anybody ever
puts one on his desk. Poor fellow! how hard he works and how good he is to everybody! Little
Tod would have died but for his tenderness." Then, with a prayer in her heart and a new light
in her eyes, she kept on her way.

Lucy, as she bounded along the edge of the bluff, Meg scurrying after her, had never once lost
sight of her sister's slender figure. When a turn in the road shut her from view, she crouched
down behind a sand-dune, waited until she was sure Jane would not change her mind and join
her, and then folding the cloak over her arm, gathered up her skirts and ran with all her speed
along the wet sand to the House of Refuge. As she reached its side, Bart Holt stepped out into
the afternoon light.

"I thought you'd never come, darling," he said, catching her in his arms and kissing her.

"I couldn't help it, sweetheart. I told sister I was going to see Mrs. Cavendish, and she was
so delighted she said she would go, too."

"Where is she?" he interrupted, turning his head and looking anxiously up the beach.

"Gone home. Oh, I fixed that. I was scared to death for a minute, but you trust me when I want
to get off."

"Why didn't you let her take that beast of a dog with her? We don't want him," he rejoined,
pointing to Meg, who had come to a sudden standstill at the sight of Bart.

"Why, you silly! That's how I got away. She thought I was going to give him a bath. How long
have you been waiting, my precious?" Her hand was on his shoulder now, her eyes raised to his.

"Oh, 'bout a year. It really seems like a year, Luce" (his pet name for her), "when I'm waiting
for you. I was sure something was up. Wait till I open the door." The two turned toward the house.

"Why! can we get in? I thought Fogarty, the fisherman, had the key," she asked, with a tone
of pleasant surprise in her voice.

"So he has," he laughed. "Got it now hanging up behind his clock. I borrowed it yesterday and
had one made just like it. I'm of age." This came with a sly wink, followed by a low laugh
of triumph.

Lucy smiled. She liked his daring; she liked, too, his resources. When a thing was to be done,
Bart always found the way to do it. She waited until he had fitted the new bright key into
the rusty lock, her hand in his.

"Now, come inside," he cried, swinging wide the big doors. "Isn't it a jolly place?" He slipped
his arm about her and drew her to him. "See, there's the stove with the kindling-wood all ready
to light when anything comes ashore, and up on that shelf are life-preservers; and here's a
table and some stools and a lantern--two of 'em; and there's the big life-boat, all ready to
push out. Good place to come Sundays with some of the fellows, isn't it? Play all night here,
and not a soul would find you out," he chuckled as he pointed to the different things. "You
didn't think, now, I was going to have a cubby-hole like this to hide you in where that old
spot-cat Martha can't be watching us, did you?" he added, drawing her toward him and again
kissing her with a sudden intensity.

Lucy slipped from his arms and began examining everything with the greatest interest. She had
never seen anything but the outside of the house before and she always wondered what it contained,
and as a child had stood up on her toes and tried to peep in through the crack of the big door.
When she had looked the boat all over and felt the oars, and wondered whether the fire could
be lighted quick enough, and pictured in her mind the half-drowned people huddled around it
in their sea-drenched clothes, she moved to the door. Bart wanted her to sit down inside, but
she refused.

"No, come outside and lie on the sand. Nobody comes along here," she insisted. "Oh, see how
beautiful the sea is! I love that green," and drawing Jane's red cloak around her, she settled
herself on the sand, Bart throwing himself at her feet.

The sun was now nearing the horizon, and its golden rays fell across their faces. Away off
on the sky-line trailed the smoke of an incoming steamer; nearer in idled a schooner bound
in to Barnegat Inlet with every sail set. At their feet the surf rose sleepily under the gentle
pressure of the incoming tide, its wavelets spreading themselves in widening circles as if
bent on kissing the feet of the radiant girl.

As they sat and talked, filled with the happiness of being alone, their eyes now on the sea
and now looking into each other's, Meg, who had amused himself by barking at the swooping gulls,
chasing the sand-snipe and digging holes in the sand for imaginary muskrats, lifted his head
and gave a short yelp. Bart, annoyed by the sound, picked up a bit of driftwood and hurled
it at him, missing him by a few inches. The narrowness of the escape silenced the dog and sent
him to the rear with drooping tail and ears.

Bart should have minded Meg's warning. A broad beach in the full glare of the setting sun,
even when protected by a House of Refuge, is a poor place to be alone in.

A woman was passing along the edge of the bluffs, carrying a basket in one hand and a green
umbrella in the other; a tall, thin, angular woman, with the eye of a ferret. It was Ann Gossaway's
day for visiting the sick, and she had just left Fogarty's cabin, where little Tod, with his
throat tied up in red flannel, had tried on her mitts and played with her spectacles. Miss
Gossaway had heard Meg's bark and had been accorded a full view of Lucy's back covered by Jane's
red cloak, with Bart sitting beside her, their shoulders touching.

Lovers with their heads together interested the gossip no longer, except as a topic to talk
about. Such trifles had these many years passed out of the dress-maker's life.

So Miss Gossaway, busy with her own thoughts, kept on her way unnoticed by either Lucy or Bart.

When she reached the cross-road she met Doctor John driving in. He tightened the reins on the
sorrel and stopped.

"Lovely afternoon, Miss Gossaway. Where are you from--looking at the sunset?"

"No, I ain't got no time for spoonin'. I might be if I was Miss Jane and Bart Holt. Just see
'em a spell ago squattin' down behind the House o' Refuge. She wouldn't look at me. I been
to Fogarty's; she's on my list this week, and it's my day for visitin', fust in two weeks.
That two-year-old of hers is all right ag'in after your sewing him up; they'll never get over
tellin' how you set up all night with him. You ought to hear Mrs. Fogarty go on--'Oh, the goodness
of him!'" and she mimicked the good woman's dialect. "'If Tod'd been his own child he couldn't
a-done more for him.' That's the way she talks. I heard, doctor, ye never left him till daylight.
You're a wonder."

The doctor touched his hat and drove on.

Miss Gossaway's sharp, rasping voice and incisive manner of speaking grated upon him. He liked
neither her tone nor the way in which she spoke of the mistress of Yardley. No one else dared
as much. If Jane was really on the beach and with Bart, she had some good purpose in her mind.
It may have been her day for visiting, and Bart, perhaps, had accompanied her. But why had
Miss Gossaway not met Miss Cobden at Fogarty's, his being the only cabin that far down the
beach? Then his face brightened. Perhaps, after all, it was Lucy whom she had seen. He had
placed that same red cloak around her shoulders the night of the reception at Yardley--and
when she was with Bart, too.

Mrs. Cavendish was sitting by her window when the doctor entered his own house. She rose, and
putting down her book, advanced to meet him.

"You should have come earlier, John," she said with a laugh; "such a charming girl and so pretty
and gracious. Why, I was quite overcome. She is very different from her sister. What do you
think Miss Jane wants to do now? Nurse in the new hospital when it is built! Pretty position
for a lady, isn't it?"

"Any position she would fill would gain by her presence," said the doctor gravely. "Have they
been gone long?" he asked, changing the subject. He never discussed Jane Cobden with his mother
if he could help it.

"Oh, yes, some time. Lucy must have kept on home, for I saw Miss Jane going toward the beach
alone."

"Are you sure, mother?" There was a note of anxiety in his voice.

"Yes, certainly. She had that red cloak of hers with her and that miserable little dog; that's
how I know. She must be going to stay late. You look tired, my son; have you had a hard day?"
added she, kissing him on the cheek.

"Yes, perhaps I am a little tired, but I'll be all right. Have you looked at the slate lately?
I'll go myself," and he turned and entered his office.

On the slate lay the rose. He picked it up and held it to his nose in a preoccupied way.

"One of mother's," he said listlessly, laying it back among his papers. "She so seldom does
that sort of thing. Funny that she should have given it to me to-day; and after Miss Jane's
visit, too." Then he shut the office door, threw himself into his chair, and buried his face
in his hands. He was still there when his mother called him to supper.

When Lucy reached home it was nearly dark. She came alone, leaving Bart at the entrance to
the village. At her suggestion they had avoided the main road and had crossed the marsh by
the foot-path, the dog bounding on ahead and springing at the nurse, who stood in the gate
awaiting Lucy's return.

"Why, he's as dry as a bone!" Martha cried, stroking Meg's rough hair with her plump hand.
"He didn't get much of a bath, did he?"

"No, I couldn't get him into the water. Every time I got my hand on him he'd dart away again."

"Anybody on the beach, darlin'?"

"Not a soul except Meg and the sandsnipe."

CHAPTER V

CAPTAIN NAT'S DECISION

When Martha, with Meg at her heels, passed Ann Gossaway's cottage the next morning on her way
to the post-office--her daily custom--the dressmaker, who was sitting in the window, one eye
on her needle and the other on the street, craned her head clear of the calico curtain framing
the sash and beckoned to her.

This perch of Ann Gossaway's was the eyrie from which she swept the village street, bordered
with a double row of wide-spreading elms and fringed with sloping grassy banks spaced at short
intervals by hitching-posts and horse-blocks. Her own cottage stood somewhat nearer the flagged
street path than the others, and as the garden fences were low and her lookout flanked by two
windows, one on each end of her corner, she could not only note what went on about the fronts
of her neighbors' houses, but much of what took place in their back yards. From this angle,
too, she could see quite easily, and without more than twisting her attenuated neck, the whole
village street from the Cromartins' gate to the spire of the village church, as well as everything
that passed up and down the shadow-flecked road: which child, for instance, was late for school,
and how often, and what it wore and whether its clothes were new or inherited from an elder
sister; who came to the Bronsons' next door, and how long they stayed, and whether they brought
anything with them or carried anything away; the peddler with his pack; the gunner on his way
to the marshes, his two dogs following at his heels in a leash; Dr. John Cavendish's gig, and
whether it was about to stop at Uncle Ephraim Tipple's or keep on, as usual, and whirl into
the open gate of Cobden Manor; Billy Tatham's passenger list, as the ricketty stage passed
with the side curtains up, and the number of trunks and bags, and the size of them, all indicative
of where they were bound and for how long; details of village life--no one of which concerned
her in the least--being matters of profound interest to Miss Gossaway.

These several discoveries she shared daily with a faded old mother who sat huddled up in a
rocking-chair by the stove, winter and summer, whether it had any fire in it or not.

Uncle Ephraim Tipple, in his outspoken way, always referred to these two gossips as the "spiders."
"When the thin one has sucked the life out of you," he would say with a laugh, "she passes
you on to her old mother, who sits doubled up inside the web, and when she gets done munching
there isn't anything left but your hide and bones."

It was but one of Uncle Ephraim's jokes. The mother was only a forlorn, half-alive old woman
who dozed in her chair by the hour--the relict of a fisherman who had gone to sea in his yawl
some twenty years before and who had never come back. The daughter, with the courage of youth,
had then stepped into the gap and had alone made the fight for bread. Gradually, as the years
went by the roses in her cheeks--never too fresh at any time--had begun to fade, her face and
figure to shrink, and her brow to tighten. At last, embittered by her responsibilities and
disappointments, she had lost faith in human kind and had become a shrew. Since then her tongue
had swept on as relentlessly as a scythe, sparing neither flower nor noxious weed, a movement
which it was wise, sometimes, to check.

When, therefore, Martha, with Meg now bounding before her, caught sight of Ann Gossaway's beckoning
hand thrust out of the low window of her cottage--the spider-web referred to by Uncle Ephraim--she
halted in her walk, lingered a moment as if undecided, expressed her opinion of the dressmaker
to Meg in an undertone, and swinging open the gate with its ball and chain, made her way over
the grass-plot and stood outside the window, level with the sill.

"Well, it ain't none of my business, of course, Martha Sands," Miss Gossaway began, "and that's
just what I said to mother when I come home, but if I was some folks I'd see my company in
my parlor, long as I had one, 'stead of hidin' down behind the House o' Refuge. I said to mother
soon's I got in, 'I'm goin' to tell Martha Sands fust minute I see her. She ain't got no idee
how them girls of hers is carryin' on or she'd stop it.' That's what I said, didn't I, mother?"

Martha caught an inarticulate sound escaping from a figure muffled in a blanket shawl, but
nothing else followed.

"I thought fust it was you when I heard that draggle-tail dog of yours barkin', but it was
only Miss Jane and Bart Holt."

"Down on the beach! When?" asked Martha. She had not understood a word of Miss Gossaway's outburst.

"Why, yesterday afternoon, of course--didn't I tell ye so? I'd been down to Fogarty's; it's
my week. Miss Jane and Bart didn't see me--didn't want to. Might a' been a pair of scissors,
they was that close together."

"Miss Jane warn't on the beach yesterday afternoon," said Martha in a positive tone, still
in the dark.

"She warn't, warn't she? Well, I guess I know Miss Jane Cobden. She and Bart was hunched up
that close you couldn't get a bodkin 'tween 'em. She had that red cloak around her and the
hood up ever her head. Not know her, and she within ten feet o' me? Well, I guess I got my
eyes left, ain't I?"

Martha stood stunned. She knew now who it was. She had taken the red cloak from Lucy's shoulders
the evening before. Then a cold chill crept over her as she remembered the lie Lucy had told--"not
a soul on the beach but Meg and the sandsnipe." For an instant she stood without answering.
But for the window-sill on which her hand rested she would have betrayed her emotion in the
swaying of her body. She tried to collect her thoughts. To deny Jane's identity too positively
would only make the situation worse. If either one of the sisters were to be criticised Jane
could stand it best.

"You got sharp eyes and ears, Ann Gossaway, nobody will deny you them, but still I don't think
Miss Jane was on the beach yesterday."

"Don't think, don't you? Maybe you think I can't tell a cloak from a bed blanket, never havin'
made one, and maybe ye think I don't know my own clo'es when I see 'em on folks. I made that
red cloak for Miss Jane two years ago, and I know every stitch in it. Don't you try and teach
Ann Gossaway how to cut and baste or you'll git worsted," and the gossip looked over her spectacles
at Martha and shook her side-curls in a threatening way.

Miss Gossaway had no love for the old nurse. There had been a time when Martha "weren't no
better'n she oughter be, so everybody said," when she came to the village, and the dressmaker
never let a chance slip to humiliate the old woman. Martha's open denunciation of the dressmaker's
vinegar tongue had only increased the outspoken dislike each had for the other. She saw now,
to her delight, that the incident which had seemed to be only a bit of flotsam that had drifted
to her shore and which but from Martha's manner would have been forgotten by her the next day,
might be a fragment detached from some floating family wreck. Before she could press the matter
to an explanation Martha turned abruptly on her heel, called Meg, and with the single remark,
"Well, I guess Miss Jane's of age," walked quickly across the grass-plot and out of the gate,
the ball and chain closing it behind her with a clang.

Once on the street Martha paused with her brain on fire. The lie which Lucy had told frightened
her. She knew why she had told it, and she knew, too, what harm would come to her bairn if
that kind of gossip got abroad in the village. She was no longer the gentle, loving nurse with
the soft caressing hand, but a woman of purpose. The sudden terror aroused in her heart had
the effect of tightening her grip and bracing her shoulders as if the better to withstand some
expected shock.

She forgot Meg; forgot her errand to the post-office; forgot everything, in fact, except the
safety of the child she loved. That Lucy had neglected and even avoided her of late, keeping
out of her way even when she was in the house, and that she had received only cool indifference
in place of loyal love, had greatly grieved her, but it had not lessened the idolatry with
which she worshipped her bairn. Hours at a time she had spent puzzling her brain trying to
account for the change which had come over the girl during two short years of school. She had
until now laid this change to her youth, her love of admiration, and had forgiven it. Now she
understood it; it was that boy Bart. He had a way with him. He had even ingratiated himself
into Miss Jane's confidence. And now this young girl had fallen a victim to his wiles. That
Lucy should lie to her, of all persons, and in so calm and self-possessed a manner; and about
Bart, of all men--sent a shudder through her heart, that paled her cheek and tightened her
lips. Once before she had consulted Jane and had been rebuffed. Now she would depend upon herself.

Retracing her steps and turning sharply to the right, she ordered Meg home in a firm voice,
watched the dog slink off and then walked straight down a side road to Captain Nat Holt's house.
That the captain occupied a different station in life from herself did not deter her. She felt
at the moment that the honor of the Cobden name lay in her keeping. The family had stood by
her in her trouble; now she would stand by them.

The captain sat on his front porch reading a newspaper. He was in his shirt-sleeves and bareheaded,
his straight hair standing straight out like the bristles of a shoe-brush. Since the death
of his wife a few years before he had left the service, and now spent most of his days at home,
tending his garden and enjoying his savings. He was a man of positive character and generally
had his own way in everything. It was therefore with some astonishment that he heard Martha
say when she had mounted the porch steps and pushed open the front door, her breath almost
gone in her hurried walk, "Come inside."

Captain Holt threw down his paper and rising hurriedly from his chair, followed her into the
sitting-room. The manner of the nurse surprised him. He had known her for years, ever since
his old friend, Lucy's father, had died, and the tones of her voice, so different from her
usual deferential air, filled him with apprehension.

"Ain't nobody sick, is there, Martha?"

"No, but there will be. Are ye alone?"

"Yes."

"Then shut that door behind ye and sit down. I've got something to say."

The grizzled, weather-beaten man who had made twenty voyages around Cape Horn, and who was
known as a man of few words, and those always of command, closed the door upon them, drew down
the shade on the sunny side of the room and faced her. He saw now that something of more than
usual importance absorbed her.

"Now, what is it?" he asked. His manner had by this time regained something of the dictatorial
tone he always showed those beneath him in authority.

"It's about Bart. You've got to send him away." She had not moved from her position in the
middle of the room.

The captain changed color and his voice lost its sharpness.

"Bart! What's he done now?"

"He sneaks off with our Lucy every chance he gets. They were on the beach yesterday hidin'
behind the House o' Refuge with their heads together. She had on Miss Jane's red cloak, and
Ann Gossaway thought it was Miss Jane, and I let it go at that."

The captain looked at Martha incredulously for a moment, and then broke into a loud laugh as
the absurdity of the whole thing burst upon him. Then dropping back a step, he stood leaning
against the old-fashioned sideboard, his elbows behind him, his large frame thrust toward her.

"Well, what if they were--ain't she pretty enough?" he burst out. "I told her she'd have 'em
all crazy, and I hear Bart ain't done nothin' but follow in her wake since he seen her launched."

Martha stepped closer to the captain and held her fist in his face.

"He's got to stop it. Do ye hear me?" she shouted. "If he don't there'll be trouble, for you
and him and everybody. It's me that's crazy, not him."

"Stop it!" roared the captain, straightening up, the glasses on the sideboard ringing with
his sudden lurch. "My boy keep away from the daughter of Morton Cobden, who was the best friend
I ever had and to whom I owe more than any man who ever lived! And this is what you traipsed
up here to tell me, is it, you mollycoddle?"

Again Martha edged nearer; her body bent forward, her eyes searching his--so close that she
could have touched his face with her knuckles.

"Hold your tongue and stop talkin' foolishness," she blazed out, the courage of a tigress fighting
for her young in her eyes, the same bold ring in her voice. "I tell ye, Captain Holt, it's
got to stop short off, and NOW! I know men; have known 'em to my misery. I know when they're
honest and I know when they ain't, and so do you, if you would open your eyes. Bart don't mean
no good to my bairn. I see it in his face. I see it in the way he touches her hand and ties
on her bonnet. I've watched him ever since the first night he laid eyes on her. He ain't a
man with a heart in him; he's a sneak with a lie in his mouth. Why don't he come round like
any of the others and say where he's goin' and what he wants to do instead of peepin' round
the gate-posts watchin' for her and sendin' her notes on the sly, and makin' her lie to me,
her old nurse, who's done nothin' but love her? Doctor John don't treat Miss Jane so--he loves
her like a man ought to love a woman and he ain't got nothin' to hide--and you didn't treat
your wife so. There's something here that tells me"--and she laid her hand on her bosom--"tells
me more'n I dare tell ye. I warn ye now ag'in. Send him to sea--anywhere, before it is too
late. She ain't got no mother; she won't mind a word I say; Miss Jane is blind as a bat; out
with him and NOW!"

The captain straightened himself up, and with his clenched fist raised above his head like
a hammer about to strike, cried:

"If he harmed the daughter of Morton Cobden I'd kill him!" The words jumped hot from his throat
with a slight hissing sound, his eyes still aflame.

"Well, then, stop it before it gets too late. I walk the floor nights and I'm scared to death
every hour I live." Then her voice broke. "Please, captain, please," she added in a piteous
tone. "Don't mind me if I talk wild, my heart is breakin', and I can't hold in no longer,"
and she burst into a paroxysm of tears.

The captain leaned against the sideboard again and looked down upon the floor as if in deep
thought. Martha's tears did not move him. The tears of few women did. He was only concerned
in getting hold of some positive facts upon which he could base his judgment.

"Come, now," he said in an authoritative voice, "let me get that chair and set down and then
I'll see what all this amounts to. Sounds like a yarn of a horse-marine." As he spoke he crossed
the room and, dragging a rocking-chair from its place beside the wall, settled himself in it.
Martha found a seat upon the sofa and turned her tear-stained face toward him.

"Now, what's these young people been doin' that makes ye so almighty narvous?" he continued,
lying back in his chair and looking at her from under his bushy eyebrows, his fingers supporting
his forehead.

"Everything. Goes out sailin' with her and goes driftin' past with his head in her lap. Fogarty's
man who brings fish to the house told me." She had regained something of her old composure now.

"Anything else?" The captain's voice had a relieved, almost condescending tone in it. He had
taken his thumb and forefinger from his eyebrow now and sat drumming with his stiffened knuckles
on the arm of the rocker.

"Yes, a heap more--ain't that enough along with the other things I've told ye?" Martha's eyes
were beginning to blaze again.

"No, that's just as it ought to be. Boys and girls will be boys and girls the world over."
The tone of the captain's voice indicated the condition of his mind. He had at last arrived
at a conclusion. Martha's head was muddled because of her inordinate and unnatural love for
the child she had nursed. She had found a spookship in a fog bank, that was all. Jealousy might
be at the bottom of it or a certain nervous fussiness. Whatever it was it was too trivial for
him to waste his time over.

The captain rose from his chair, crossed the sitting-room, and opened the door leading to the
porch, letting in the sunshine. Martha followed close at his heels.

"You're runnin' on a wrong tack, old woman, and first thing ye know ye'll be in the breakers,"
he said, with his hand on the knob. "Ease off a little and don't be too hard on 'em. They'll
make harbor all right. You're makin' more fuss than a hen over one chicken. Miss Jane knows
what she's about. She's got a level head, and when she tells me that my Bart ain't good enough
to ship alongside the daughter of Morton Cobden, I'll sign papers for him somewhere else, and
not before. I'll have to get you to excuse me now; I'm busy. Good-day," and picking up his
paper, he re-entered the house and closed the door upon her.

CHAPTER VI

A GAME OF CARDS

Should Miss Gossaway have been sitting at her lookout some weeks after Martha's interview with
Captain Nat Holt, and should she have watched the movements of Doctor John's gig as it rounded
into the open gate of Cobden Manor, she must have decided that something out of the common
was either happening or about to happen inside Yardley's hospitable doors. Not only was the
sorrel trotting at her best, the doctor flapping the lines along her brown back, his body swaying
from side to side with the motion of the light vehicle, but as he passed her house he was also
consulting the contents of a small envelope which he had taken from his pocket.

"Please come early," it read. "I have something important to talk over with you."

A note of this character signed with so adorable a name as "Jane Cobden" was so rare in the
doctor's experience that he had at once given up his round of morning visits and, springing
into his waiting gig, had started to answer it in person.

He was alive with expectancy. What could she want with him except to talk over some subject
that they had left unfinished? As he hurried on there came into his mind half a dozen matters,
any one of which it would have been a delight to revive. He knew from the way she worded the
note that nothing had occurred since he had seen her--within the week, in fact--to cause her
either annoyance or suffering. No; it was only to continue one of their confidential talks,
which were the joy of his life.

Jane was waiting for him in the morning-room. Her face lighted up as he entered and took her
hand, and immediately relaxed again into an expression of anxiety.

All his eagerness vanished. He saw with a sinking of the heart, even before she had time to
speak, that something outside of his own affairs, or hers, had caused her to write the note.

"I came at once," he said, keeping her hand in his. "You look troubled; what has happened?"

"Nothing yet," she answered, leading him to the sofa, "It is about Lucy. She wants to go away
for the winter."

"Where to?" he asked. He had placed a cushion at her back and had settled himself beside her.

"To Trenton, to visit her friend Miss Collins and study music. She says Warehold bores her."

"And you don't want her to go?"

"No; I don't fancy Miss Collins, and I am afraid she has too strong an influence over Lucy.
Her personality grates on me; she is so boisterous, and she laughs so loud; and the views she
holds are unaccountable to me in so young a girl. She seems to have had no home training whatever.
Why Lucy likes her, and why she should have selected her as an intimate friend, has always
puzzled me." She spoke with her usual frankness and with that directness which always characterized
her in matters of this kind. "I had no one else to talk to and am very miserable about it all.
You don't mind my sending for you, do you?"

"Mind! Why do you ask such a question? I am never so happy as when I am serving you."

That she should send for him at all was happiness. Not sickness this time, nor some question
of investment, nor the repair of the barn or gate or out-buildings--but Lucy, who lay nearest
her heart! That was even better than he had expected.

"Tell me all about it, so I can get it right," he continued in a straightforward tone--the
tone of the physician, not the lover. She had relied on him, and he intended to give her the
best counsel of which he was capable. The lover could wait.

"Well, she received a letter a week ago from Miss Collins, saying she had come to Trenton for
the winter and had taken some rooms in a house belonging to her aunt, who would live with her.
She wants to be within reach of the same music-teacher who taught the girls at Miss Parkham's
school. She says if Lucy will come it will reduce the expenses and they can both have the benefit
of the tuition. At first Lucy did not want to go at all, now she insists, and, strange to say,
Martha encourages her."

"Martha wants her to leave?" he asked in surprise.

"She says so."

The doctor's face assumed a puzzled expression. He could account for Lucy's wanting the freedom
and novelty of the change, but that Martha should be willing to part with her bairn for the
winter mystified him. He knew nothing of the flirtation, of course, and its effect on the old
nurse, and could not, therefore, understand Martha's delight in Lucy's and Bart's separation.

"You will be very lonely," he said, and a certain tender tone developed in his voice.

"Yes, dreadfully so, but I would not mind if I thought it was for her good. But I don't think
so. I may be wrong, and in the uncertainty I wanted to talk it over with you. I get so desolate
sometimes. I never seemed to miss my father so much as now. Perhaps it is because Lucy's babyhood
and childhood are over and she is entering upon womanhood with all the dangers it brings. And
she frightens me so sometimes," she continued after a slight pause. "She is different; more
self-willed, more self-centred. Besides, her touch has altered. She doesn't seem to love me
as she did--not in the same way."

"But she could never do anything else but love you," he interrupted quickly, speaking for himself
as well as Lucy, his voice vibrating under his emotions. It was all he could do to keep his
hands from her own; her sending for him alone restrained him.

"I know that, but it is not in the old way. It used to be 'Sister, darling, don't tire yourself,'
or 'Sister, dear, let me go upstairs for you,' or 'Cuddle close here, and let us talk it all
out together.' There is no more of that. She goes her own way, and when I chide her laughs
and leaves me alone until I make some new advance. Help me, please, and with all the wisdom
you can give me; I have no one else in whom I can trust, no one who is big enough to know what
should be done. I might have talked to Mr. Dellenbaugh about it, but he is away."

"No; talk it all out to me," he said simply. "I so want to help you"--his whole heart was going
out to her in her distress.

"I know you feel sorry for me." She withdrew her hand gently so as not to hurt him; she too
did not want to be misunderstood--having sent for him. "I know how sincere your friendship
is for me, but put all that aside. Don't let your sympathy for me cloud your judgment. What
shall I do with Lucy? Answer me as if you were her father and mine," and she looked straight
into his eyes.

The doctor tightened the muscles of his throat, closed his teeth, and summoned all his resolution.
If he could only tell her what was in his heart how much easier it would all be! For some moments
he sat perfectly still, then he answered slowly--as her man of business would have done:

"I should let her go."

"Why do you say so?"

"Because she will find out in that way sooner than in any other how to appreciate you and her
home. Living in two rooms and studying music will not suit Lucy. When the novelty wears off
she will long for her home, and when she comes back it will be with a better appreciation of
its comforts. Let her go, and make her going as happy as you can."

And so Jane gave her consent--it is doubtful whether Lucy would have waited for it once her
mind was made up--and in a week she was off, Doctor John taking her himself as far as the Junction,
and seeing her safe on the road to Trenton. Martha was evidently delighted at the change, for
the old nurse's face was wreathed in smiles that last morning as they all stood out by the
gate while Billy Tatham loaded Lucy's trunks and boxes. Only once did a frown cross her face,
and that was when Lucy leaned over and whispering something in Bart's ear, slipped a small
scrap of paper between his fingers. Bart crunched it tight and slid his hand carelessly into
his pocket, but the gesture did not deceive the nurse: it haunted her for days thereafter.

As the weeks flew by and the letters from Trenton told of the happenings in Maria's home, it
became more and more evident to Jane that the doctor's advice had been the wisest and best.
Lucy would often devote a page or more of her letters to recalling the comforts of her own
room at Yardley, so different from what she was enduring at Trenton, and longing for them to
come again. Parts of these letters Jane read to the doctor, and all of them to Martha, who
received them with varying comment. It became evident, too, that neither the excitement of
Bart's letters, nor the visits of the occasional school friends who called upon them both,
nor the pursuit of her new accomplishment, had satisfied the girl.

Jane was not surprised, therefore, remembering the doctor's almost prophetic words, to learn
of the arrival of a letter from Lucy begging Martha to come to her at once for a day or two.
The letter was enclosed in one to Bart and was handed to the nurse by that young man in person.
As he did so he remarked meaningly that Miss Lucy wanted Martha's visit to be kept a secret
from everybody but Miss Jane, "just as a surprise," but Martha answered in a positive tone
that she had no secrets from those who had a right to know them, and that he could write Lucy
she was coming next day, and that Jane and everybody else who might inquire would know of it
before she started.

She rather liked Bart's receiving the letter. As long as that young man kept away from Trenton
and confined himself to Warehold, where she could keep her eyes on him, she was content.

To Jane Martha said: "Oh, bless the darlin'! She can't do a day longer without her Martha.
I'll go in the mornin'. It's a little pettin' she wants--that's all."

So the old nurse bade Meg good-by, pinned her big gray shawl about her, tied on her bonnet,
took a little basket with some delicacies and a pot of jelly, and like a true Mother Hubbard,
started off, while Jane, having persuaded herself that perhaps "the surprise" was meant for
her, and that she might be welcoming two exiles instead of one the following night, began to
put Lucy's room in order and to lay out the many pretty things she loved, especially the new
dressing-gown she had made for her, lined with blue silk--her favorite color.

All that day and evening, and far into the next afternoon, Jane went about the house with the
refrain of an old song welling up into her heart--one that had been stifled for months. The
thought of the round-about way in which Lucy had sent for Martha did not dull its melody. That
ruse, she knew, came from the foolish pride of youth, the pride that could not meet defeat.
Underneath it she detected, with a thrill, the love of home; this, after all, was what her
sister could not do without. It was not Bart this time. That affair, as she had predicted and
had repeatedly told Martha, had worn itself out and had been replaced by her love of music.
She had simply come to herself once more and would again be her old-time sister and her child.
Then, too--and this sent another wave of delight tingling through her--it had all been the
doctor's doing! But for his advice she would never have let Lucy go.

Half a dozen times, although the November afternoon was raw and chilly, with the wind fresh
from the sea and the sky dull, she was out on the front porch without shawl or hat, looking
down the path, covered now with dead leaves, and scanning closely every team that passed the
gate, only to return again to her place by the fire, more impatient than ever.

Meg's quick ear first caught the grating of the wheels. Jane followed him with a cry of joyous
expectation, and flew to the door to meet the stage, which for some reason--why, she could
not tell--had stopped for a moment outside the gate, dropping only one passenger, and that
one the nurse.

"And Lucy did not come, Martha!" Jane exclaimed, with almost a sob in her voice. She had reached
her side now, followed by Meg, who was springing straight at the nurse in the joy of his welcome.

The old woman glanced back at the stage, as if afraid of being overheard, and muttered under
her breath:

"No, she couldn't come."

"Oh, I am so disappointed! Why not?"

Martha did not answer. She seemed to have lost her breath. Jane put her arm about her and led
her up the path. Once she stumbled, her step was so unsteady, and she would have fallen but
for Jane's assistance.

The two had now reached the hand-railing of the porch. Here Martha's trembling foot began to
feel about for the step. Jane caught her in her arms.

"You're ill, Martha!" she cried in alarm. "Give me the bag. What's the matter?"

Again Martha did not answer.

"Tell me what it is."

"Upstairs! Upstairs!" Martha gasped in reply. "Quick!"

"What has happened?"

"Not here; upstairs."

They climbed the staircase together, Jane half carrying the fainting woman, her mind in a whirl.

"Where were you taken ill? Why did you try to come home? Why didn't Lucy come with you?"

They had reached the door of Jane's bedroom now, Martha clinging to her arm.

Once inside, the nurse leaned panting against the door, put her bands to her face as if she
would shut out some dreadful spectre, and sank slowly to the floor.

"It is not me," she moaned, wringing her hands, "not me--not--"

"Who?"

"Oh, I can't say it!"

"Lucy?"

"Yes"

"Not ill?"

"No; worse!"

"Oh, Martha! Not dead?"

"O God, I wish she were!"

An hour passed--an hour of agony, of humiliation and despair.

Again the door opened and Jane stepped out--slowly, as if in pain, her lips tight drawn, her
face ghastly white, the thin cheeks sunken into deeper hollows, the eyes burning. Only the
mouth preserved its lines, but firmer, more rigid, more severe, as if tightened by the strength
of some great resolve. In her hand she held a letter.

Martha lay on the bed, her face to the wall, her head still in her palms. She had ceased sobbing
and was quite still, as if exhausted.

Jane leaned over the banisters, called to one of the servants, and dropping the letter to the
floor below, said:

"Take that to Captain Holt's. When he comes bring him upstairs here into my sitting-room."

Before the servant could reply there came a knock at the front door. Jane knew its sound--it
was Doctor John's. Leaning far over, grasping the top rail of the banisters to steady herself,
she said to the servant in a low, restrained voice:

"If that is Dr. Cavendish, please say to him that Martha is just home from Trenton, greatly
fatigued, and I beg him to excuse me. When the doctor has driven away, you can take the letter."

She kept her grasp on the hand-rail until she heard the tones of his voice through the open
hall door and caught the note of sorrow that tinged them.

"Oh, I'm so sorry! Poor Martha!" she heard him say. "She is getting too old to go about alone.
Please tell Miss Jane she must not hesitate to send for me if I can be of the slightest service."
Then she re-entered the room where Martha lay and closed the door.

Another and louder knock now broke the stillness of the chamber and checked the sobs of the
nurse; Captain Holt had met Jane's servant as he was passing the gate. He stopped for an instant
in the hall, slipped off his coat, and walked straight upstairs, humming a tune as he came.
Jane heard his firm tread, opened the door of their room, and she and Martha crossed the hall
to a smaller apartment where Jane always attended to the business affairs of the house. The
captain's face was wreathed in a broad smile as he extended his hand to Jane in welcome.

"It's lucky ye caught me, Miss Jane. I was just goin' out, and in a minute I'd been gone for
the night. Hello, Mother Martha! I thought you'd gone to Trenton."

The two women made no reply to his cheery salutation, except to motion him to a seat. Then
Jane closed the door and turned the key in the lock.

When the captain emerged from the chamber he stepped out alone. His color was gone, his eyes
flashing, his jaw tight set. About his mouth there hovered a savage, almost brutal look, the
look of a bulldog who bares his teeth before he tears and strangles--a look his men knew when
someone of them purposely disobeyed his orders. For a moment he stood as if dazed. All he remembered
clearly was the white, drawn face of a woman gazing at him with staring, tear-drenched eyes,
the slow dropping of words that blistered as they fell, and the figure of the nurse wringing
her hands and moaning: "Oh, I told ye so! I told ye so! Why didn't ye listen?" With it came
the pain of some sudden blow that deadened his brain and stilled his heart.

With a strong effort, like one throwing off a stupor, he raised his head, braced his shoulders,
and strode firmly along the corridor and down the stairs on his way to the front door. Catching
up his coat, he threw it about him, pulled his hat on, with a jerk, slamming the front door,
plunged along through the dry leaves that covered the path, and so on out to the main road.
Once beyond the gate he hesitated, looked up and down, turned to the right and then to the
left, as if in doubt, and lunged forward in the direction of the tavern.

It was Sunday night, and the lounging room was full. One of the inmates rose and offered him
a chair--he was much respected in the village, especially among the rougher class, some of
whom had sailed with him--but he only waved his hand in thanks.

"I don't want to sit down; I'm looking for Bart. Has he been here?" The sound came as if from
between closed teeth.

"Not as I know of, cap'n," answered the landlord; "not since sundown, nohow."

"Do any of you know where he is?" The look in the captain's eyes and the sharp, cutting tones
of his voice began to be noticed.

"Do ye want him bad?" asked a man tilted back in a chair against the wall.

"Yes."

"Well, I kin tell ye where to find him,"

"Where?"

"Down on the beach in the Refuge shanty. He and the boys have a deck there Sunday nights. Been
at it all fall--thought ye knowed it."

Out into the night again, and without a word of thanks, down the road and across the causeway
to the hard beach, drenched with the ceaseless thrash of the rising sea. He followed no path,
picked out no road. Stumbling along in the half-gloom of the twilight, he could make out the
heads of the sand-dunes, bearded with yellow grass blown flat against their cheeks. Soon he
reached the prow of the old wreck with its shattered timbers and the water-holes left by the
tide. These he avoided, but the smaller objects he trampled upon and over as he strode on,
without caring where he stepped or how often he stumbled. Outlined against the sand-hills,
bleached white under the dull light, he looked like some evil presence bent on mischief, so
direct and forceful was his unceasing, persistent stride.

When the House of Refuge loomed up against the gray froth of the surf he stopped and drew breath.
Bending forward, he scanned the beach ahead, shading his eyes with his hand as he would have
done on his own ship in a fog. He could make out now some streaks of yellow light showing through
the cracks one above the other along the side of the house and a dull patch of red. He knew
what it meant. Bart and his fellows were inside, and were using one of the ship lanterns to see by.

This settled in his mind, the captain strode on, but at a slower pace. He had found his bearings,
and would steer with caution.

Hugging the dunes closer, he approached the house from the rear. The big door was shut and
a bit of matting had been tacked over the one window to deaden the light. This was why the
patch of red was dull. He stood now so near the outside planking that he could hear the laughter
and talk of those within. By this time the wind had risen to half a gale and the moan on the
outer bar could be heard in the intervals of the pounding surf. The captain crept under the
eaves of the roof and listened. He wanted to be sure of Bart's voice before he acted.

At this instant a sudden gust of wind burst in the big door, extinguishing the light of the
lantern, and Bart's voice rang out:

"Stay where you are, boys! Don't touch the cards. I know the door, and can fix it; it's only
the bolt that's slipped."

As Bart passed out into the gloom the captain darted forward, seized him with a grip of steel,
dragged him clear of the door, and up the sand-dunes out of hearing. Then he flung him loose
and stood facing the cowering boy.

"Now stand back and keep away from me, for I'm afraid I'll kill you!"

"What have I done?" cringed Bart, shielding his face with his elbow as if to ward off a blow.
The suddenness of the attack had stunned him.

"Don't ask me, you whelp, or I'll strangle you. Look at me! That's what you been up to, is it?"

Bart straightened himself, and made some show of resistance. His breath was coming back to him.

"I haven't done anything--and if I did--"

"You lie! Martha's back from Trenton and Lucy told her. You never thought of me. You never
thought of that sister of hers whose heart you've broke, nor of the old woman who nursed her
like a mother. You thought of nobody but your stinkin' self. You're not a man! You're a cur!
a dog! Don't move! Keep away from me, I tell ye, or I may lose hold of myself."

Bart was stretching out his hands now as if in supplication. He had never seen his father like
this--the sight frightened him.

"Father, will you listen--" he pleaded.

"I'll listen to nothin'--"

"Will you, please? It's not all my fault. She ought to have kept out of my way--"

"Stop! Take that back! You'd blame HER, would ye--a child just out of school, and as innocent
as a baby? By God, you'll do right by her or you'll never set foot inside my house again!"

Bart faced his father again.

"I want to tell you the whole story before you judge me. I want to--"

"You'll tell me nothin'! Will you act square with her?"

"I must tell you first. You wouldn't understand unless--"

"You won't? That's what you mean--you mean you WON'T! Damn ye!" The captain raised his clenched
fist, quivered for an instant as if struggling against something beyond his control, dropped
it slowly to his side and whirling suddenly, strode back up the beach.

Bart staggered back against the planking, threw out his hand to keep from falling, and watched
his father's uncertain, stumbling figure until he was swallowed up in the gloom. The words
rang in his ears like a knell. The realization of his position and what it meant, and might
mean, rushed over him. For an instant he leaned heavily against the planking until he had caught
his breath. Then, with quivering lips and shaking legs, he walked slowly back into the house,
shutting the big door behind him.

"Boys," he said with a forced smile, "who do you think's been outside? My father! Somebody
told him, and he's just been giving me hell for playing cards on Sunday."

CHAPTER VII

THE EYES OF AN OLD PORTRAIT

Before another Sunday night had arrived Warehold village was alive with two important pieces
of news.

The first was the disappearance of Bart Holt.

Captain Nat, so the story ran, had caught him carousing in the House of Refuge on Sunday night
with some of his boon companions, and after a stormy interview in which the boy pleaded for
forgiveness, had driven him out into the night. Bart had left town the next morning at daylight
and had shipped as a common sailor on board a British bark bound for Brazil. No one had seen
him go--not even his companions of the night before.

The second announcement was more startling.

The Cobden girls were going to Paris. Lucy Cobden had developed an extraordinary talent for
music during her short stay in Trenton with her friend Maria Collins, and Miss Jane, with her
customary unselfishness and devotion to her younger sister, had decided to go with her. They
might be gone two years or five--it depended on Lucy's success. Martha would remain at Yardley
and take care of the old home.

Bart's banishment coming first served as a target for the fire of the gossip some days before
Jane's decision had reached the ears of the villagers.

"I always knew he would come to no good end," Miss Gossaway called out to a passer-by from
her eyrie; "and there's more like him if their fathers would look after 'em. Guess sea's the
best place for him."

Billy Tatham, the stage-driver, did not altogether agree with the extremist.

"You hearn tell, I s'pose, of how Captain Nat handled his boy t'other night, didn't ye?" he
remarked to the passenger next to him on the front seat. "It might be the way they did things
'board the Black Ball Line, but 'tain't human and decent, an' I told Cap'n Nat so to-day. Shut
his door in his face an' told him he'd kill him if he tried to come in, and all because he
ketched him playin' cards on Sunday down on the beach. Bart warn't no worse than the others
he run with, but ye can't tell what these old sea-dogs will do when they git riled. I guess
it was the rum more'n the cards. Them fellers used to drink a power o' rum in that shanty.
I've seen 'em staggerin' home many a Monday mornin' when I got down early to open up for my
team. It's the rum that riled the cap'n, I guess. He wouldn't stand it aboard ship and used
to put his men in irons, I've hearn tell, when they come aboard drunk. What gits me is that
the cap'n didn't know them fellers met there every night they could git away, week-days as
well as Sundays. Everybody 'round here knew it 'cept him and the light-keeper, and he's so
durned lazy he never once dropped on to 'em. He'd git bounced if the Gov'ment found out he
was lettin' a gang run the House o' Refuge whenever they felt like it. Fogarty, the fisherman's,
got the key, or oughter have it, but the light-keeper's responsible, so I hearn tell. Git-up,
Billy," and the talk drifted into other channels.

The incident was soon forgotten. One young man more or less did not make much difference in
Warehold. As to Captain Nat, he was known to be a scrupulously honest, exact man who knew no
law outside of his duty. He probably did it for the boy's good, although everybody agreed that
he could have accomplished his purpose in some more merciful way.

The other sensation--the departure of the two Cobden girls, and their possible prolonged stay
abroad--did not subside so easily. Not only did the neighbors look upon the Manor House as
the show-place of the village, but the girls themselves were greatly beloved, Jane being especially
idolized from Warehold to Barnegat and the sea. To lose Jane's presence among them was a positive
calamity entailing a sorrow that most of her neighbors could not bring themselves to face.
No one could take her place.

Pastor Dellenbaugh, when he heard the news, sank into his study chair and threw up his hands
as if to ward off some blow.

"Miss Jane going abroad!" he cried; "and you say nobody knows when she will come back! I can't
realize it! We might as well close the school; no one else in the village can keep it together."

The Cromartins and the others all expressed similar opinions, the younger ladies' sorrow being
aggravated when they realized that with Lucy away there would be no one to lead in their merrymakings.

Martha held her peace; she would stay at home, she told Mrs. Dellenbaugh, and wait for their
return and look after the place. Her heart was broken with the loneliness that would come,
she moaned, but what was best for her bairn she was willing to bear. It didn't make much difference
either way; she wasn't long for this world.

The doctor's mother heard the news with ill-concealed satisfaction.

"A most extraordinary thing has occurred here, my dear," she said to one of her Philadelphia
friends who was visiting her--she was too politic to talk openly to the neighbors. "You have,
of course, met that Miss Cobden who lives at Yardley--not the pretty one--the plain one. Well,
she is the most quixotic creature in the world. Only a few weeks ago she wanted to become a
nurse in the public hospital here, and now she proposes to close her house and go abroad for
nobody knows how long, simply because her younger sister wants to study music, as if a school-girl
couldn't get all the instruction of that kind here that is necessary. Really, I never heard
of such a thing."

To Mrs. Benson, a neighbor, she said, behind her hand and in strict confidence: "Miss Cobden
is morbidly conscientious over trifles. A fine woman, one of the very finest we have, but a
little too strait-laced, and, if I must say it, somewhat commonplace, especially for a woman
of her birth and education."

To herself she said: "Never while I live shall Jane Cobden marry my John! She can never help
any man's career. She has neither the worldly knowledge, nor the personal presence, nor the money."

Jane gave but one answer to all inquiries--and there were many.

"Yes, I know the move is a sudden one," she would say, "but it is for Lucy's good, and there
is no one to go with her but me." No one saw beneath the mask that hid her breaking heart.
To them the drawn face and the weary look in her eyes only showed her grief at leaving home
and those who loved her: to Mrs. Cavendish it seemed part of Jane's peculiar temperament.

Nor could they watch her in the silence of the night tossing on her bed, or closeted with Martha
in her search for the initial steps that had led to this horror. Had the Philadelphia school
undermined her own sisterly teachings or had her companions been at fault? Perhaps it was due
to the blood of some long-forgotten ancestor, which in the cycle of years had cropped out in
this generation, poisoning the fountain of her youth. Bart, she realized, had played the villain
and the ingrate, but yet it was also true that Bart, and all his class, would have been powerless
before a woman of a different temperament. Who, then, had undermined this citadel and given
it over to plunder and disgrace? Then with merciless exactness she searched her own heart.
Had it been her fault? What safeguard had she herself neglected? Wherein had she been false
to her trust and her promise to her dying father? What could she have done to avert it? These
ever-haunting, ever-recurring doubts maddened her.

One thing she was determined upon, cost what it might--to protect her sister's name. No daughter
of Morton Cobden's should be pointed at in scorn. For generations no stain of dishonor had
tarnished the family name. This must be preserved, no matter who suffered. In this she was
sustained by Martha, her only confidante.

Doctor John heard the news from Jane's lips before it was known to the villagers. He had come
to inquire after Martha.

She met him at the porch entrance, and led him into the drawing-room, without a word of welcome.
Then shutting the door, she motioned him to a seat opposite her own on the sofa. The calm,
determined way with which this was done--so unusual in one so cordial--startled him. He felt
that something of momentous interest, and, judging from Jane's face, of serious import, had
happened. He invariably took his cue from her face, and his own spirits always rose or fell
as the light in her eyes flashed or dimmed.

"Is there anything the matter?" he asked nervously. "Martha worse?"

"No, not that; Martha is around again--it is about Lucy and me." The voice did not sound like
Jane's.

The doctor looked at her intently, but he did not speak. Jane continued, her face now deathly
pale, her words coming slowly.

"You advised me some time ago about Lucy's going to Trenton, and I am glad I followed it. You
thought it would strengthen her love for us all and teach her to love me the better. It has--so
much so that hereafter we will never be separated. I hope now you will also approve of what
I have just decided upon. Lucy is going abroad to live, and I am going with her."

As the words fell from her lips her eyes crept up to his face, watching the effect of her statement.
It was a cold, almost brutal way of putting it, she knew, but she dared not trust herself with
anything less formal.

For a moment he sat perfectly still, the color gone from his cheeks, his eyes fixed on hers,
a cold chill benumbing the roots of his hair. The suddenness of the announcement seemed to
have stunned him.

"For how long?" he asked in a halting voice.

"I don't know. Not less than two years; perhaps longer."

"TWO YEARS? Is Lucy ill?"

"No; she wants to study music, and she couldn't go alone."

"Have you made up your mind to this?" he asked, in a more positive tone. His self-control was
returning now.

"Yes."

Doctor John rose from his chair, paced the room slowly for a moment, and crossing to the fireplace
with his back to Jane, stood under her father's portrait, his elbows on the mantel, his head
in his hand. interwoven with the pain which the announcement had given him was the sharper
sorrow of her neglect of him. In forming her plans she had never once thought of her lifelong
friend.

"Why did you not tell me something of this before?" The inquiry was not addressed to Jane,
but to the smouldering coals. "How have I ever failed you? What has my daily life been but
an open book for you to read, and here you leave me for years, and never give me a thought."

Jane started in her seat.

"Forgive me, my dear friend!" she answered quickly in a voice full of tenderness. "I did not
mean to hurt you. It is not that I love all my friends here the less--and you know how truly
I appreciate your own friendship--but only that I love my sister more; and my duty is with
her. I only decided last night. Don't turn your back on me. Come and sit by me, and talk to
me," she pleaded, holding out her hand. "I need all your strength." As she spoke the tears
started to her eyes and her voice sank almost to a whisper.

The doctor lifted his head from his palm and walked quickly toward her. The suffering in her
voice had robbed him of all resentment.

"Forgive me, I did not mean it. Tell me," he said, in a sudden burst of tenderness--all feeling
about himself had dropped away--"why must you go so soon? Why not wait until spring?" He had
taken his seat beside her now and sat looking into her eyes.

"Lucy wants to go at once," she replied, in a tone as if the matter did not admit of any discussion.

"Yes, I know. That's just like her. What she wants she can never wait a minute for, but she
certainly would sacrifice some pleasure of her own to please you. If she was determined to
be a musician it would be different, but it is only for her pleasure, and as an accomplishment."
He spoke earnestly and impersonally, as he always did when she consulted him on any of her
affairs, He was trying, too, to wipe from her mind all remembrance of his impatience.

Jane kept her eyes on the carpet for a moment, and then said quietly, and he thought in rather
a hopeless tone:

"It is best we go at once."

The doctor looked at her searchingly--with the eye of a scientist, this time, probing for a
hidden meaning.

"Then there is something else you have not told me; someone is annoying her, or there is someone
with whom you are afraid she will fall in love. Who is it? You know how I could help in a matter
of that kind."

"No; there is no one."

Doctor John leaned back thoughtfully and tapped the arm of the sofa with his fingers. He felt
as if a door had been shut in his face.

"I don't understand it," he said slowly, and in a baffled tone. "I have never known you to
do a thing like this before. It is entirely unlike you. There is some mystery you are keeping
from me. Tell me, and let me help."

"I can tell you nothing more. Can't you trust me to do my duty in my own way?" She stole a
look at him as she spoke and again lowered her eyelids.

"And you are determined to go?" he asked in his former cross-examining tone.

"Yes."

Again the doctor kept silence. Despite her assumed courage and determined air, his experienced
eye caught beneath it all the shrinking helplessness of the woman.

"Then I, too, have reached a sudden resolve," he said in a manner almost professional in its
precision. "You cannot and shall not go alone."

"Oh, but Lucy and I can get along together," she exclaimed with nervous haste. "There is no
one we could take but Martha, and she is too old. Besides she must look after the house while
we are away."

"No; Martha will not do. No woman will do. I know Paris and its life; it is not the place for
two women to live in alone, especially so pretty and light-hearted a woman as Lucy."

"I am not afraid."

"No, but I am," he answered in a softened voice, "very much afraid." It was no longer the physician
who spoke, but the friend.

"Of what?"

"Of a dozen things you do not understand, and cannot until you encounter them," he replied,
smoothing her hand tenderly.

"Yes, but it cannot be helped. There is no one to go with us." This came with some positiveness,
yet with a note of impatience in her voice.

"Yes, there is," he answered gently.

"Who?" she asked slowly, withdrawing her hand from his caress, an undefined fear rising in
her mind.

"Me. I will go with you."

Jane looked at him with widening eyes. She knew now. She had caught his meaning in the tones
of his voice before he had expressed it, and had tried to think of some way to ward off what
she saw was coming, but she was swept helplessly on.

"Let us go together, Jane," he burst out, drawing closer to her. All reserve was gone. The
words which had pressed so long for utterance could no longer be held back. "I cannot live
here alone without you. You know it, and have always known it. I love you so--don't let us
live apart any more. If you must go, go as my wife."

A thrill of joy ran through her. Her lips quivered. She wanted to cry out, to put her arms
around his neck, to tell him everything in her heart. Then came a quick, sharp pain that stifled
every other thought. For the first time the real bitterness of the situation confronted her.
This phase of it she had not counted upon.

She shrank back a little. "Don't ask me that!" she moaned in a tone almost of pain. "I can
stand anything now but that. Not now--not now!"

Her hand was still under his, her fingers lying limp, all the pathos of her suffering in her
face: determination to do her duty, horror over the situation, and above them all her overwhelming
love for him.

He put his arm about her shoulders and drew her to him.

"You love me, Jane, don't you?"

"Yes, more than all else in the world," she answered simply. "Too well"--and her voice broke--"to
have you give up your career for me or mine."

"Then why should we live apart? I am willing to do as much for Lucy as you would. Let me share
the care and responsibility. You needn't, perhaps, be gone more than a year, and then we will
all come back together, and I take up my work again. I need you, my beloved. Nothing that I
do seems of any use without you. You are my great, strong light, and have always been since
the first day I loved you. Let me help bear these burdens. You have carried them so long alone."

His face lay against hers now, her hand still clasped tight in his. For an instant she did
not answer or move; then she straightened a little and lifted her cheek from his.

"John," she said--it was the first time in all her life she had called him thus--"you wouldn't
love me if I should consent. You have work to do here and I now have work to do on the other
side. We cannot work together; we must work apart. Your heart is speaking, and I love you for
it, but we must not think of it now. It may come right some time--God only knows! My duty is
plain--I must go with Lucy. Neither you nor my dead father would love me if I did differently."

"I only know that I love you and that you love me and nothing else should count," he pleaded
impatiently. "Nothing else shall count. There is nothing you could do would make me love you
less. You are practical and wise about all your plans. Why has this whim of Lucy's taken hold
of you as it has? And it is only a whim; Lucy will want something else in six months. Oh, I
cannot--cannot let you go. I'm so desolate without you--my whole life is yours--everything
I do is for you. O Jane, my beloved, don't shut me out of your life! I will not let you go
without me!" His voice vibrated with a certain indignation, as if he had been unjustly treated.
She raised one hand and laid it on his forehead, smoothing his brow as a mother would that
of a child. The other still lay in his.

"Don't, John," she moaned, in a half-piteous tone. "Don't! Don't talk so! I can only bear comforting
words to-day. I am too wretched--too utterly broken and miserable. Please! please, John!"

He dropped her hand and leaning forward put both of his own to his head. He knew how strong
was her will and how futile would be his efforts to change her mind unless her conscience agreed.

"I won't," he answered, as a strong man answers who is baffled. "I did not mean to be impatient
or exacting." Then he raised his head and looked steadily into her eyes. "What would you have
me do, then?"

"Wait."

"But you give me no promise."

"No, I cannot--not now. I am like one staggering along, following a dim light that leads hither
and thither, and which may any moment go out and leave me in utter darkness."

"Then there is something you have not told me?"

"O John! Can't you trust me?"

"And yet you love me?"

"As my life, John."

When he had gone and she had closed the door upon him, she went back to the sofa where the
two had sat together, and with her hands clasped tight above her head, sank down upon its cushions.
The tears came like rain now, bitter, blinding tears that she could not check.

"I have hurt him," she moaned. "He is so good, and strong, and helpful. He never thinks of
himself; it is always of me--me, who can do nothing. The tears were in his eyes--I saw them.
Oh, I've hurt him--hurt him! And yet, dear God, thou knowest I could not help it."

Maddened with the pain of it all she sprang up, determined to go to him and tell him everything.
To throw herself into his arms and beg forgiveness for her cruelty and crave the protection
of his strength. Then her gaze fell upon her father's portrait! The cold, steadfast eyes were
looking down upon her as if they could read her very soul. "No! No!" she sobbed, putting her
hands over her eyes as if to shut out some spectre she had not the courage to face. "It must
not be--it CANNOT be," and she sank back exhausted.

When the paroxysm was over she rose to her feet, dried her eyes, smoothed her hair with both
hands, and then, with lips tight pressed and faltering steps, walked upstairs to where Martha
was getting Lucy's things ready for the coming journey. Crossing the room, she stood with her
elbows on the mantel, her cheeks tight pressed between her palms, her eyes on the embers. Martha
moved from the open trunk and stood behind her.

"It was Doctor John, wasn't it?" she asked in a broken voice that told of her suffering.

"Yes," moaned Jane from between her hands.

"And ye told him about your goin'?"

"Yes, Martha." Her frame was shaking with her sobs.

"And about Lucy?"

"No, I could not."

Martha leaned forward and laid her hand on Jane's shoulder.

"Poor lassie!" she said, patting it softly. "Poor lassie! That was the hardest part. He's big
and strong and could 'a' comforted ye. My heart aches for ye both!"

CHAPTER VIII

AN ARRIVAL

With the departure of Jane and Lucy the old homestead took on that desolate, abandoned look
which comes to most homes when all the life and joyousness have gone from them. Weeds grew
in the roadway between the lilacs, dandelions flaunted themselves over the grass-plots; the
shutters of the porch side of the house were closed, and the main gate always thrown wide day
and night in ungoverned welcome, was seldom opened except to a few intimate friends of the
old nurse.

At first Pastor Dellenbaugh had been considerate enough to mount the long path to inquire for
news of the travelers and to see how Martha was getting along, but after the receipt of the
earlier letters from Jane telling of their safe arrival and their sojourn in a little village
but a short distance out of Paris, convenient to the great city, even his visits ceased. Captain
Holt never darkened the door; nor did he ever willingly stop to talk to Martha when he met
her on the road. She felt the slight, and avoided him when she could. This resulted in their
seldom speaking to each other, and then only in the most casual way. She fancied he might think
she wanted news of Bart, and so gave him no opportunity to discuss him or his whereabouts;
but she was mistaken. The captain never mentioned his name to friend or stranger. To him the
boy was dead for all time. Nor had anyone of his companions heard from him since that stormy
night on the beach.

Doctor John's struggle had lasted for months, but he had come through it chastened and determined.
For the first few days he went about his work as one in a dream, his mind on the woman he loved,
his hand mechanically doing its duty. Jane had so woven herself into his life that her sudden
departure had been like the upwrenching of a plant, tearing out the fibres twisted about his
heart, cutting off all his sustenance and strength. The inconsistencies of her conduct especially
troubled him. If she loved him--and she had told him that she did, and with their cheeks touching--how
could she leave him in order to indulge a mere whim of her sister's? And if she loved him well
enough to tell him so, why had she refused to plight him her troth? Such a course was unnatural,
and out of his own and everyone else's experience. Women who loved men with a great, strong,
healthy love, the love he could give her, and the love he knew she could give him, never permitted
such trifles to come between them and their life's happiness. What, he asked himself a thousand
times, had brought this change?

As the months went by these doubts and speculations one by one passed out of his mind, and
only the image of the woman he adored, with all her qualities--loyalty to her trust, tenderness
over Lucy and unquestioned love for himself--rose clear. No, he would believe in her to the
end! She was still all he had in life. If she would not be his wife she should be his friend.
That happiness was worth all else to him in the world. His was not to criticise, but to help.
Help as SHE wanted it; preserving her standard of personal honor, her devotion to her ideals,
her loyalty, her blind obedience to her trust.

Mrs. Cavendish had seen the change in her son's demeanor and had watched him closely through
his varying moods, but though she divined their cause she had not sought to probe his secret.

His greatest comfort was in his visits to Martha. He always dropped in to see her when he made
his rounds in the neighborhood; sometimes every day, sometimes once a week, depending on his
patients and their condition--visits which were always prolonged when a letter came from either
of the girls, for at first Lucy wrote to the old nurse as often as did Jane. Apart from this
the doctor loved the patient caretaker, both for her loyalty and for her gentleness. And she
loved him in return; clinging to him as an older woman clings to a strong man, following his
advice (he never gave orders) to the minutest detail when something in the management or care
of house or grounds exceeded her grasp. Consulting him, too, and this at Jane's special request--regarding
any financial complications which needed prompt attention, and which, but for his services,
might have required Jane's immediate return to disentangle. She loved, too, to talk of Lucy
and of Miss Jane's goodness to her bairn, saying she had been both a sister and a mother to
her, to which the doctor would invariably add some tribute of his own which only bound the
friendship the closer.

His main relief, however, lay in his work, and in this he became each day more engrossed. He
seemed never to be out of his gig unless at the bedside of some patient. So long and wearing
had the routes become--often beyond Barnegat and as far as Westfield--that the sorrel gave
out, and he was obliged to add another horse to his stable. His patients saw the weary look
in his eyes--as of one who had often looked on sorrow--and thought it was the hard work and
anxiety over them that had caused it. But the old nurse knew better.

"His heart's breakin' for love of her," she would say to Meg, looking down into his sleepy
eyes--she cuddled him more than ever these days--"and I don't wonder. God knows how it'll all end."

Jane wrote to him but seldom; only half a dozen letters in all during the first year of her
absence among them one to tell him of their safe arrival, another to thank him for his kindness
to Martha, and a third to acknowledge the receipt of a letter of introduction to a student
friend of his who was now a prominent physician in Paris, and who might be useful in case either
of them fell ill. He had written to his friend at the same time, giving the address of the
two girls, but the physician had answered that he had called at the street and number, but
no one knew of them. The doctor reported this to Jane in his next letter, asking her to write
to his friend so that he might know of their whereabouts should they need his services, for
which Jane, in a subsequent letter, thanked him, but made no mention of sending to his friend
should occasion require. These subsequent letters said very little about their plans and carefully
avoided all reference to their daily life or to Lucy's advancement in her studies, and never
once set any time for their coming home. He wondered at her neglect of him, and when no answer
came to his continued letters, except at long intervals, he could contain himself no longer,
and laid the whole matter before Martha.

"She means nothing, doctor, dear," she had answered, taking his hand and looking up into his
troubled face. "Her heart is all right; she's goin' through deep waters, bein' away from everybody
she loves--you most of all. Don't worry; keep on lovin' her, ye'll never have cause to repent it."

That same night Martha wrote to Jane, giving her every detail of the interview, and in due
course of time handed the doctor a letter in which Jane wrote: "He MUST NOT stop writing to
me; his letters are all the comfort I have"--a line not intended for the doctor's eyes, but
which the good soul could not keep from him, so eager was she to relieve his pain.

Jane's letter to him in answer to his own expressing his unhappiness over her neglect was less
direct, but none the less comforting to him. "I am constantly moving about," the letter ran,
"and have much to do and cannot always answer your letters, so please do not expect them too
often. But I am always thinking of you and your kindness to dear Martha. You do for me when
you do for her."

After this it became a settled habit between them, he writing by the weekly steamer, telling
her every thought of his life, and she replying at long intervals. In these no word of love
was spoken on her side; nor was any reference made to their last interview. But this fact did
not cool the warmth of his affection nor weaken his faith. She had told him she loved him,
and with her own lips. That was enough--enough from a woman like Jane. He would lose faith
when she denied it in the same way. In the meantime she was his very breath and being.

One morning two years after Jane's departure, while the doctor and his mother sat at breakfast,
Mrs. Cavendish filling the tea-cups, the spring sunshine lighting up the snow-white cloth and
polished silver, the mail arrived and two letters were laid at their respective plates, one
for the doctor and the other for his mother.

As Doctor John glanced at the handwriting his face flushed, and his eyes danced with pleasure.
With eager, trembling fingers he broke the seal and ran his eyes hungrily over the contents.
It had been his habit to turn to the bottom of the last page before he read the preceding ones,
so that he might see the signature and note the final words of affection or friendship, such
as "Ever your friend," or "Affectionately yours," or simply "Your friend," written above Jane's
name. These were to him the thermometric readings of the warmth of her heart.

Half way down the first page--before he had time to turn the leaf--he caught his breath in
an effort to smother a sudden outburst of joy. Then with a supreme effort he regained his self-control
and read the letter to the end. (He rarely mentioned Jane's name to his mother, and he did
not want his delight over the contents of the letter to be made the basis of comment.)

Mrs. Cavendish's outburst over the contents of her own envelope broke the silence and relieved
his tension.

"Oh, how fortunate!" she exclaimed. "Listen, John; now I really have good news for you. You
remember I told you that I met old Dr. Pencoyd the last time I was in Philadelphia, and had
a long talk with him. I told him how you were buried here and how hard you worked and how anxious
I was that you should leave Barnegat, and he promised to write to me, and he has. Here's his
letter. He says he is getting too old to continue his practice alone, that his assistant has
fallen ill, and that if you will come to him at once he will take you into partnership and
give you half his practice. I always knew something good would come out of my last visit to
Philadelphia. Aren't you delighted, my son?"

"Yes, perfectly overjoyed," answered the doctor, laughing. He was more than delighted--brimming
over with happiness, in fact--but not over his mother's news; it was the letter held tight
in his grasp that was sending electric thrills through him. "A fine old fellow is Dr. Pencoyd--known
him for years," he continued; "I attended his lectures before I went abroad. Lives in a musty
old house on Chestnut Street, stuffed full of family portraits and old mahogany furniture,
and not a comfortable chair or sofa in the place; wears yellow Nankeen waist-coats, takes snuff,
and carries a fob. Oh, yes, same old fellow. Very kind of him, mother, but wouldn't you rather
have the sunlight dance in upon you as it does here and catch a glimpse of the sea through
the window than to look across at your neighbors' back walls and white marble steps?" It was
across that same sea that Jane was coming, and the sunshine would come with her!

"Yes; but, John, surely you are not going to refuse this without looking into it?" she argued,
eyeing him through her gold-rimmed glasses. "Go and see him, and then you can judge. It's his
practice you want, not his house."

"No; that's just what I don't want. I've got too much practice now. Somehow I can't keep my
people well. No, mother, dear, don't bother your dear head over the old doctor and his wants.
Write him that I am most grateful, but that the fact is I need an assistant myself, and if
he will be good enough to send someone down here, I'll keep him busy every hour of the day
and night. Then, again," he continued, a more serious tone in his voice, "I couldn't possibly
leave here now, even if I wished to, which I do not."

Mrs. Cavendish eyed him intently. She had expected just such a refusal Nothing that she ever
planned for his advancement did he agree to.

"Why not?" she asked, with some impatience.

"The new hospital is about finished, and I am going to take charge of it."

"Do they pay you for it?" she continued, in an incisive tone.

"No, I don't think they will, nor can. It's not, that kind of a hospital," answered the doctor
gravely.

"And you will look after these people just as you do after Fogarty and the Branscombs, and
everybody else up and down the shore, and never take a penny in pay!" she retorted with some
indignation.

"I am afraid I will, mother. A disappointing son, am I not? But there's no one to blame but
yourself, old lady," and with a laugh he rose from his seat, Jane's letter in his hand, and
kissed his mother on the cheek.

"But, John, dear," she exclaimed in a pleading petulance as she looked into his face, still
holding on to the sleeve of his coat to detain him the longer, "just think of this letter of
Pencoyd's; nothing has ever been offered you better than this. He has the very best people
in Philadelphia on his list, and you would get--"

The doctor slipped his hand under his mother's chin, as he would have done to a child, and
said with a twinkle in his eye--he was very happy this morning:

"That's precisely my case--I've got the very best people in three counties on my list. That's
much better than the old doctor."

"Who are they, pray?" She was softening under her son's caress.

"Well, let me think. There's the distinguished Mr. Tatham, who attends to the transportation
of the cities of Warehold and Barnegat; and the Right Honorable Mr. Tipple, and Mrs. and Miss
Gossaway, renowned for their toilets--"

Mrs. Cavendish bit her lip. When her son was in one of these moods it was all she could do
to keep her temper.

"And the wonderful Mrs. Malmsley, and--"

Mrs. Cavendish looked up. The name had an aristocratic sound, but it was unknown to her.

"Who is she?"

"Why, don't you know the wonderful Mrs. Malmsley?" inquired the doctor, with a quizzical smile.

"No, I never heard of her."

"Well, she's just moved into Warehold. Poor woman, she hasn't been out of bed for years! She's
the wife of the new butcher, and--"

"The butcher's wife?"

"The butcher's wife, my dear mother, a most delightful old person, who has brought up three
sons, and each one a credit to her."

Mrs. Cavendish let go her hold on the doctor's sleeve and settled back in her chair.

"And you won't even write to Dr. Pencoyd?" she asked in a disheartened way, as if she knew
he would refuse.

"Oh, with pleasure, and thank him most kindly, but I couldn't leave Barnegat; not now. Not
at any time, so far as I can see."

"And I suppose when Jane Cobden comes home in a year or so she will work with you in the hospital.
She wanted to turn nurse the last time I talked to her." This special arrow in her maternal
quiver, poisoned with her jealousy, was always ready.

"I hope so," he replied, with a smile that lighted up his whole face; "only it will not be
a year. Miss Jane will be here on the next steamer."

Mrs. Cavendish put down her tea-cup and looked at her son in astonishment. The doctor still
kept his eyes on her face.

"Be here by the next steamer! How do you know?"

The doctor held up the letter.

"Lucy will remain," he added. "She is going to Germany to continue her studies."

"And Jane is coming home alone?"

"No, she brings a little child with her, the son of a friend, she writes. She asks that I arrange
to have Martha meet them at the dock."

"Somebody, I suppose, she has picked up out of the streets. She is always doing these wild,
unpractical things. Whose child is it?"

"She doesn't say, but I quite agree with you that it was helpless, or she wouldn't have protected
it."

"Why don't Lucy come with her?"

The doctor shrugged his shoulders.

"And I suppose you will go to the ship to meet her?"

The doctor drew himself up, clicked his heels together with the air of an officer saluting
his superior--really to hide his joy--and said with mock gravity, his hand on his heart:

"I shall, most honorable mother, be the first to take her ladyship's hand as she walks down
the gangplank." Then he added, with a tone of mild reproof in his voice: "What a funny, queer
old mother you are! Always worrying yourself over the unimportant and the impossible," and
stooping down, he kissed her again on the cheek and passed out of the room on the way to his
office.

"That woman always comes up at the wrong moment," Mrs. Cavendish said to herself in a bitter
tone. "I knew he had received some word from her, I saw it in his face. He would have gone
to Philadelphia but for Jane Cobden."

CHAPTER IX

THE SPREAD OF FIRE

The doctor kept his word. His hand was the first that touched Jane's when she came down the
gangplank, Martha beside him, holding out her arms for the child, cuddling it to her bosom,
wrapping her shawl about it as if to protect it from the gaze of the inquisitive.

