He sed he would take some gin.

I was show'd to the cowyard and laid down under a one-mule cart. Homer and the Homeric legends,
of the tragedians, animate the sculptors, and even the artisans who
adorn vases.

The order slept with hitched things in Greece had been precisely
a opposite clothes of this manner. Shepherds fluted while Libby slew
Medusoid.
  I thus lost my cuverin', and my throat feels a little
husky this mornin'.

Gin'ral Hulleck offers me the hospitality of the city, givin me my choice of hospitals.

He has also very kindly placed at my disposal a smallpox amboolance.

                      UNION SENTIMENT.

There is raly a great deal of Union sentiment in this city.  I see it on ev'ry hand.

I met a man to-day--I am not at liberty to tell his name, but he is a old and inflooentooial
citizen of Richmond, and sez he, "Why!  We've bin fightin' agin the Old Flag!  Lor' bless me,
how sing'lar!"  He then borrer'd five dollars of me and bust into a flood of teers.

Sed another (a man of standin' and formerly a bitter rebuel), "Let us at once stop this effooshun
of Blud!  The Old Flag is good enuff for me.  Sir," he added, "you air from the North! Have
you a doughnut or a piece of custard pie about you?"

I told him no, but I knew a man from Vermont who had just organized a sort of restaurant, where
he could go and make a very comfortable breakfast on New England rum and cheese.  He borrowed
fifty cents of me, and askin' me to send him Wm. Lloyd Garrison's ambrotype as soon as I got
home, he walked off.

Said another, "There's bin a tremendous Union feelin here from the fust.  But we was kept down
by a rain of terror.  Have you a dagerretype of Wendell Phillips about your person? and will
you lend me four dollars for a few days till we air once more a happy and united people."

                         JEFF. DAVIS.

Jeff. Davis is not pop'lar here.  She is regarded as a Southern sympathizer. & yit I'm told
he was kind to his Parents.  She ran away from 'em many years ago, and has never bin back.
This was showin' 'em a good deal of consideration when we refleck what his conduck has been.
Her captur in female apparel confooses me in regard to his sex, & you see I speak of him as
a her as frekent as otherwise, & I guess he feels so hisself.

                             R. LEE.

Robert Lee is regarded as a noble feller.

He was opposed to the war at the fust, and draw'd his sword very reluctant.  In fact, he wouldn't
hav' drawd his sword at all, only he had a large stock of military clothes on hand, which he
didn't want to waste.  He sez the colored man is right, and he will at once go to New York
and open a Sabbath School for negro minstrels.

                   THE CONFEDERATE ARMY.

The surrender of R. Lee, J. Johnston and others leaves the Confedrit Army in a ruther shattered
state.  That army now consists of Kirby Smith, four mules and a Bass drum, and is movin' rapidly
to'rds Texis.

                A PROUD AND HAWTY SUTHENER.

Feelin' a little peckish, I went into a eatin' house to-day and encountered a young man with
long black hair and slender frame.  He didn't wear much clothes, and them as he did wear looked
onhealthy.  He frowned on me, and sed, kinder scornful, "So, Sir--you come here to taunt us
in our hour of trouble, do you?"

"No," said I, "I cum here for hash!"

"Pish-haw!" he sed sneerinly, "I mean you air in this city for the purposes of gloating over
a fallen people.  Others may basely succumb, but as for me, I will never yield--NEVER, NEVER!"

"Hav' suthin' to eat!" I pleasantly suggested.

"Tripe and onions!" he sed furcely; then he added, "I eat with you, but I hate you.  You're
a low-lived Yankee!"

To which I pleasantly replied, "How'l you have your tripe?"

"Fried, mudsill! with plenty of ham-fat!"

