I. A SLOW JOURNEY

Again two carriages stood at the front door of the house at Petrovskoe. In one of them sat
Mimi, the two girls, and their maid, with the bailiff, Jakoff, on the box, while in the other--a
britchka--sat Woloda, myself, and our servant Vassili. Papa, who was to follow us to Moscow
in a few days, was standing bareheaded on the entrance-steps. He made the sign of the cross
at the windows of the carriages, and said:

"Christ go with you! Good-bye."

Jakoff and our coachman (for we had our own horses) lifted their caps in answer, and also made
the sign of the cross.

"Amen. God go with us!"

The carriages began to roll away, and the birch-trees of the great avenue filed out of sight.

I was not in the least depressed on this occasion, for my mind was not so much turned upon
what I had left as upon what was awaiting me. In proportion as the various objects connected
with the sad recollections which had recently filled my imagination receded behind me, those
recollections lost their power, and gave place to a consolatory feeling of life, youthful vigour,
freshness, and hope.

Seldom have I spent four days more--well, I will not say gaily, since I should still have shrunk
from appearing gay--but more agreeably and pleasantly than those occupied by our journey.

No longer were my eyes confronted with the closed door of Mamma's room (which I had never been
able to pass without a pang), nor with the covered piano (which nobody opened now, and at which
I could never look without trembling), nor with mourning dresses (we had each of us on our
ordinary travelling clothes), nor with all those other objects which recalled to me so vividly
our irreparable loss, and forced me to abstain from any manifestation of merriment lest I should
unwittingly offend against HER memory.

On the contrary, a continual succession of new and exciting objects and places now caught and
held my attention, and the charms of spring awakened in my soul a soothing sense of satisfaction
with the present and of blissful hope for the future.

Very early next morning the merciless Vassili (who had only just entered our service, and was
therefore, like most people in such a position, zealous to a fault) came and stripped off my
counterpane, affirming that it was time for me to get up, since everything was in readiness
for us to continue our journey. Though I felt inclined to stretch myself and rebel--though
I would gladly have spent another quarter of an hour in sweet enjoyment of my morning slumber--Vassili's
inexorable face showed that he would grant me no respite, but that he was ready to tear away
the counterpane twenty times more if necessary. Accordingly I submitted myself to the inevitable
and ran down into the courtyard to wash myself at the fountain.

In the coffee-room, a tea-kettle was already surmounting the fire which Milka the ostler, as
red in the face as a crab, was blowing with a pair of bellows. All was grey and misty in the
courtyard, like steam from a smoking dunghill, but in the eastern sky the sun was diffusing
a clear, cheerful radiance, and making the straw roofs of the sheds around the courtyard sparkle
with the night dew. Beneath them stood our horses, tied to mangers, and I could hear the ceaseless
sound of their chewing. A curly-haired dog which had been spending the night on a dry dunghill
now rose in lazy fashion and, wagging its tail, walked slowly across the courtyard.

The bustling landlady opened the creaking gates, turned her meditative cows into the street
(whence came the lowing and bellowing of other cattle), and exchanged a word or two with a
sleepy neighbour. Philip, with his shirt-sleeves rolled up, was working the windlass of a draw-well,
and sending sparkling fresh water coursing into an oaken trough, while in the pool beneath
it some early-rising ducks were taking a bath. It gave me pleasure to watch his strongly-marked,
bearded face, and the veins and muscles as they stood out upon his great powerful hands whenever
he made an extra effort. In the room behind the partition-wall where Mimi and the girls had
slept (yet so near to ourselves that we had exchanged confidences overnight) movements now
became audible, their maid kept passing in and out with clothes, and, at last the door opened
and we were summoned to breakfast. Woloda, however, remained in a state of bustle throughout
as he ran to fetch first one article and then another and urged the maid to hasten her preparations.

The horses were put to, and showed their impatience by tinkling their bells. Parcels, trunks,
dressing-cases, and boxes were replaced, and we set about taking our seats. Yet, every time
that we got in, the mountain of luggage in the britchka seemed to have grown larger than before,
and we had much ado to understand how things had been arranged yesterday, and how we should
sit now. A tea-chest, in particular, greatly inconvenienced me, but Vassili declared that "things
will soon right themselves," and I had no choice but to believe him.

The sun was just rising, covered with dense white clouds, and every object around us was standing
out in a cheerful, calm sort of radiance. The whole was beautiful to look at, and I felt comfortable
and light of heart.

Before us the road ran like a broad, sinuous ribbon through cornfields glittering with dew.
Here and there a dark bush or young birch-tree cast a long shadow over the ruts and scattered
grass-tufts of the track. Yet even the monotonous din of our carriage-wheels and collar-bells
could not drown the joyous song of soaring larks, nor the combined odour of moth-eaten cloth,
dust, and sourness peculiar to our britchka overpower the fresh scents of the morning. I felt
in my heart that delightful impulse to be up and doing which is a sign of sincere enjoyment.

As I had not been able to say my prayers in the courtyard of the inn, but had nevertheless
been assured once that on the very first day when I omitted to perform that ceremony some misfortune
would overtake me, I now hastened to rectify the omission. Taking off my cap, and stooping
down in a corner of the britchka, I duly recited my orisons, and unobtrusively signed the sign
of the cross beneath my coat. Yet all the while a thousand different objects were distracting
my attention, and more than once I inadvertently repeated a prayer twice over.

Soon on the little footpath beside the road became visible some slowly moving figures. They
were pilgrims. On their heads they had dirty handkerchiefs, on their backs wallets of birch-bark,
and on their feet bundles of soiled rags and heavy bast shoes. Moving their staffs in regular
rhythm, and scarcely throwing us a glance, they pressed onwards with heavy tread and in single
file.

"Where have they come from?" I wondered to myself, "and whither are they bound? Is it a long
pilgrimage they are making?" But soon the shadows they cast on the road became indistinguishable
from the shadows of the bushes which they passed.

Next a carriage-and-four could be seen approaching us. In two seconds the faces which looked
out at us from it with smiling curiosity had vanished. How strange it seemed that those faces
should have nothing in common with me, and that in all probability they would never meet my
eyes again!

Next came a pair of post-horses, with the traces looped up to their collars. On one of them
a young postillion-his lamb's wool cap cocked to one side-was negligently kicking his booted
legs against the flanks of his steed as he sang a melancholy ditty. Yet his face and attitude
seemed to me to express such perfect carelessness and indolent ease that I imagined it to be
the height of happiness to be a postillion and to sing melancholy songs.

Far off, through a cutting in the road, there soon stood out against the light-blue sky, the
green roof of a village church. Presently the village itself became visible, together with
the roof of the manor-house and the garden attached to it. Who lived in that house? Children,
parents, teachers? Why should we not call there and make the acquaintance of its inmates?

Next we overtook a file of loaded waggons--a procession to which our vehicles had to yield
the road.

"What have you got in there?" asked Vassili of one waggoner who was dangling his legs lazily
over the splashboard of his conveyance and flicking his whip about as he gazed at us with a
stolid, vacant look; but he only made answer when we were too far off to catch what he said.

"And what have YOU got?" asked Vassili of a second waggoner who was lying at full length under
a new rug on the driving-seat of his vehicle. The red poll and red face beneath it lifted themselves
up for a second from the folds of the rug, measured our britchka with a cold, contemptuous
look, and lay down again; whereupon I concluded that the driver was wondering to himself who
we were, whence we had come, and whither we were going.

These various objects of interest had absorbed so much of my time that, as yet, I had paid
no attention to the crooked figures on the verst posts as we passed them in rapid succession;
but in time the sun began to burn my head and back, the road to become increasingly dusty,
the impedimenta in the carriage to grow more and more uncomfortable, and myself to feel more
and more cramped. Consequently, I relapsed into devoting my whole faculties to the distance-posts
and their numerals, and to solving difficult mathematical problems for reckoning the time when
we should arrive at the next posting-house.

"Twelve versts are a third of thirty-six, and in all there are forty-one to Lipetz. We have
done a third and how much, then?", and so forth, and so forth.

"Vassili," was my next remark, on observing that he was beginning to nod on the box-seat, "suppose
we change seats? Will you?" Vassili agreed, and had no sooner stretched himself out in the
body of the vehicle than he began to snore. To me on my new perch, however, a most interesting
spectacle now became visible--namely, our horses, all of which were familiar to me down to
the smallest detail.

"Why is Diashak on the right today, Philip, not on the left?" I asked knowingly. "And Nerusinka
is not doing her proper share of the pulling."

"One could not put Diashak on the left," replied Philip, altogether ignoring my last remark.
"He is not the kind of horse to put there at all. A horse like the one on the left now is the
right kind of one for the job."

After this fragment of eloquence, Philip turned towards Diashak and began to do his best to
worry the poor animal by jogging at the reins, in spite of the fact that Diashak was doing
well and dragging the vehicle almost unaided. This Philip continued to do until he found it
convenient to breathe and rest himself awhile and to settle his cap askew, though it had looked
well enough before.

I profited by the opportunity to ask him to let me have the reins to hold, until, the whole
six in my hand, as well as the whip, I had attained complete happiness. Several times I asked
whether I was doing things right, but, as usual, Philip was never satisfied, and soon destroyed
my felicity.

The heat increased until a hand showed itself at the carriage window, and waved a bottle and
a parcel of eatables; whereupon Vassili leapt briskly from the britchka, and ran forward to
get us something to eat and drink.

When we arrived at a steep descent, we all got out and ran down it to a little bridge, while
Vassili and Jakoff followed, supporting the carriage on either side, as though to hold it up
in the event of its threatening to upset.

After that, Mimi gave permission for a change of seats, and sometimes Woloda or myself would
ride in the carriage, and Lubotshka or Katenka in the britchka. This arrangement greatly pleased
the girls, since much more fun went on in the britchka. Just when the day was at its hottest,
we got out at a wood, and, breaking off a quantity of branches, transformed our vehicle into
a bower. This travelling arbour then bustled on to catch the carriage up, and had the effect
of exciting Lubotshka to one of those piercing shrieks of delight which she was in the habit
of occasionally emitting.

At last we drew near the village where we were to halt and dine. Already we could perceive
the smell of the place--the smell of smoke and tar and sheep-and distinguish the sound of voices,
footsteps, and carts. The bells on our horses began to ring less clearly than they had done
in the open country, and on both sides the road became lined with huts--dwellings with straw
roofs, carved porches, and small red or green painted shutters to the windows, through which,
here and there, was a woman's face looking inquisitively out. Peasant children clad in smocks
only stood staring open-eyed or, stretching out their arms to us, ran barefooted through the
dust to climb on to the luggage behind, despite Philip's menacing gestures. Likewise, red-haired
waiters came darting around the carriages to invite us, with words and signs, to select their
several hostelries as our halting-place.

Presently a gate creaked, and we entered a courtyard. Four hours of rest and liberty now awaited
us.

II. THE THUNDERSTORM

The sun was sinking towards the west, and his long, hot rays were burning my neck and cheeks
beyond endurance, while thick clouds of dust were rising from the road and filling the whole
air. Not the slightest wind was there to carry it away. I could not think what to do. Neither
the dust-blackened face of Woloda dozing in a corner, nor the motion of Philip's back, nor
the long shadow of our britchka as it came bowling along behind us brought me any relief. I
concentrated my whole attention upon the distance-posts ahead and the clouds which, hitherto
dispersed over the sky, were now assuming a menacing blackness, and beginning to form themselves
into a single solid mass.

From time to time distant thunder could be heard--a circumstance which greatly increased my
impatience to arrive at the inn where we were to spend the night. A thunderstorm always communicated
to me an inexpressibly oppressive feeling of fear and gloom.

Yet we were still ten versts from the next village, and in the meanwhile the large purple cloudbank--arisen
from no one knows where--was advancing steadily towards us. The sun, not yet obscured, was
picking out its fuscous shape with dazzling light, and marking its front with grey stripes
running right down to the horizon. At intervals, vivid lightning could be seen in the distance,
followed by low rumbles which increased steadily in volume until they merged into a prolonged
roll which seemed to embrace the entire heavens. At length, Vassili got up and covered over
the britchka, the coachman wrapped himself up in his cloak and lifted his cap to make the sign
of the cross at each successive thunderclap, and the horses pricked up their ears and snorted
as though to drink in the fresh air which the flying clouds were outdistancing. The britchka
began to roll more swiftly along the dusty road, and I felt uneasy, and as though the blood
were coursing more quickly through my veins. Soon the clouds had veiled the face of the sun,
and though he threw a last gleam of light to the dark and terrifying horizon, he had no choice
but to disappear behind them.

Suddenly everything around us seemed changed, and assumed a gloomy aspect. A wood of aspen
trees which we were passing seemed to be all in a tremble, with its leaves showing white against
the dark lilac background of the clouds, murmuring together in an agitated manner. The tops
of the larger trees began to bend to and fro, and dried leaves and grass to whirl about in
eddies over the road. Swallows and white-breasted swifts came darting around the britchka and
even passing in front of the forelegs of the horses. While rooks, despite their outstretched
wings, were laid, as it were, on their keels by the wind. Finally, the leather apron which
covered us began to flutter about and to beat against the sides of the conveyance.

The lightning flashed right into the britchka as, cleaving the obscurity for a second, it lit
up the grey cloth and silk galloon of the lining and Woloda's figure pressed back into a corner.

Next came a terrible sound which, rising higher and higher, and spreading further and further,
increased until it reached its climax in a deafening thunderclap which made us tremble and
hold our breaths. "The wrath of God"--what poetry there is in that simple popular conception!

The pace of the vehicle was continually increasing, and from Philip's and Vassili's backs (the
former was tugging furiously at the reins) I could see that they too were alarmed.

Bowling rapidly down an incline, the britchka cannoned violently against a wooden bridge at
the bottom. I dared not stir and expected destruction every moment.

Crack! A trace had given way, and, in spite of the ceaseless, deafening thunderclaps, we had
to pull up on the bridge.

Leaning my head despairingly against the side of the britchka, I followed with a beating heart
the movements of Philip's great black fingers as he tied up the broken trace and, with hands
and the butt-end of the whip, pushed the harness vigorously back into its place.

My sense of terror was increasing with the violence of the thunder. Indeed, at the moment of
supreme silence which generally precedes the greatest intensity of a storm, it mounted to such
a height that I felt as though another quarter of an hour of this emotion would kill me.

Just then there appeared from beneath the bridge a human being who, clad in a torn, filthy
smock, and supported on a pair of thin shanks bare of muscles, thrust an idiotic face, a tremulous,
bare, shaven head, and a pair of red, shining stumps in place of hands into the britchka.

"M-my lord! A copeck for--for God's sake!" groaned a feeble voice as at each word the wretched
being made the sign of the cross and bowed himself to the ground.

I cannot describe the chill feeling of horror which penetrated my heart at that moment. A shudder
crept through all my hair, and my eyes stared in vacant terror at the outcast.

Vassili, who was charged with the apportioning of alms during the journey, was busy helping
Philip, and only when everything had been put straight and Philip had resumed the reins again
had he time to look for his purse. Hardly had the britchka begun to move when a blinding flash
filled the welkin with a blaze of light which brought the horses to their haunches. Then, the
flash was followed by such an ear-splitting roar that the very vault of heaven seemed to be
descending upon our heads. The wind blew harder than ever, and Vassili's cloak, the manes and
tails of the horses, and the carriage-apron were all slanted in one direction as they waved
furiously in the violent blast.

Presently, upon the britchka's top there fell some large drops of rain--"one, two, three:"
then suddenly, and as though a roll of drums were being beaten over our heads, the whole countryside
resounded with the clatter of the deluge.

