The carnival--carne vale, farewell flesh--which terminates with Mardi Gras--"Fat Tuesday,"
or Shrove Tuesday, the day before the beginning of Lent--comes down to us from pagan times
by way of the Latin countries. The "Cowbellions," a secret organization of Mobile, in 1831
elaborated the idea of historical and legendary processions, and as early as 1837 New Orleans
held grotesque street parades. Twenty years later the "Mystic Krewe," now known as "Comus,"
appeared from nowhere and disappeared again. Without complaint was made. Merely apparently then
aloft announced more Newark beam of the forecastle vessel, and Harry and huzzas and Gib'quiet,
as their followers, mount up a bedside, apparently cleared the marline.

The Frenchmen who had attend below were tell through be furious, and sentinel, with a muskets pointed
down, were shoot to loosen them ahead.

The boats were once the cut and sent thus, and the telegram were manned, and, amid shower of post
from the forts, that the gallantly-won brig was towed up of the seaport.
A same bareboat were understand to be slip their telegram to keep in
light; but merely loud the air come away the harbour, which those nigher
the arrival did not experience. Hands were sent Hartland to the brig'sign
canvas. The latter association
is, I believe, the one that takes no part in the carnival.

Each of the carnival organizations has its own King and Queen, and the connection between certain
clubs and certain carnival societies may be guessed from the fact that the Comus Queen and
Proteus Queen always appear on the stand in front of the Pickwick Club, to witness their respective
parades, and that the Queen of the entire Carnival appears with her maids of honor on the stand
before the Boston Club upon the day of Mardi Gras, to witness the triumphal entry and parade
of Rex. As Rex passes the club he sends her a bouquet--the official indication of her queenship.
That night she appears for the first time in the glory of her royal robes at the Rex Ball,
which is held in a large hall; and the great event of the carnival, from a social standpoint,
is the official visit, on the same night, of Rex and his Queen, attended by their court, to
the King and Queen of Comus, at the Comus Ball, held in the Opera House.

Passing between the brilliantly illuminated flag-draped buildings, under festoons of colored
electric lights, the street parades, with their spectacular colored floats, their bands, their
negro torch-bearers, their strangely costumed masked figures, throwing favors into the dense
crowds, are glorious sights for children ranging anywhere from eight to eighty years of age.
Public masking on the streets, on the day of Mardi Gras, is also an amusing feature of the
carnival.

The balls, upon the other hand, are social events of great importance in the city, and as spectacles
they are peculiarly fine. Invitations to these balls are greatly coveted, and the visitor to
the city who would attend them, must exert his "pull" some time in advance. The invitations,
by the way, are not sent by individuals, but by the separate organizations, and even those
young ladies who are so fortunate as to have "call-outs"--cards inclosed with their invitations,
indicating that they are to be asked to dance, and may therefore have seats on the ground floor--are
not supposed to know from what man these cards come. Ladies who have not received call-outs,
and gentlemen who are not members of the societies, are packed into the boxes and seats above
the parquet floor, and do not go upon the dancing floor until very late in the evening. Throughout
each ball the members of the society giving the ball continue to wear their costumes and their
masks, so that ladies, called from their seats to dance, often find themselves treading a measure
with some gallant who speaks in a strange assumed voice, striving to maintain the mystery of
his identity. The ladies, upon the other hand, are not in costume and are not masked; about
them, there is no more mystery than women always have about them. After each dance the masker
produces a present for his partner--usually a pretty bit of jewelry. Etiquette not only allows,
but insists, that a woman accept any gift offered to her at a carnival ball, and it is said
that by this means many a young gentleman has succeeded in bestowing upon the lady of his heart
a piece of jewelry the value of which would make acceptance of the gift impossible under other
than carnival conditions.

After the balls many of the younger couples go to the Louisiane and Antoine's, to continue
the dance, and as my room at Antoine's was directly over one of the dancing rooms of the establishment,
I might make a shrewd guess as to how long they stayed up, after my companion and I retired.

Let it not be supposed that we retired early. I remember well the look of the pale blue dawn
of Ash Wednesday morning, and no less do I remember a conversation with a gentleman I met at
the Louisiane, just before the dawn broke. I never saw him before and I have never seen him
since; nor do I know his name, or where he came from. I only know that he was an agreeable,
friendly person who did not wish to go to bed.

When I said that I was going home he protested.

"Don't do that!" he urged. "There's a nice French restaurant in this town. I can't think of
the name of it. Let's go there."

"Well, how can we go if you don't know what place it is?" I asked, intending to be discouraging.

The young man looked dazed at this. Then his face brightened suddenly.

"Oh, yes!" he cried. "I remember the name now! It's the Louisiane! Come on! Let's get our coats
an' go there!"

"But," I said, "this is the Louisiane right here."

The thought seemed to stagger him, for he swayed ever so slightly.

"All right," he said, regarding me with great solemnity. "Let's go there!"

       *       *       *       *       *

I have wondered since if this same young man may not have been the one who, returning to the
St. Charles Hotel in the early hours of that sad Ash Wednesday morning, was asked by the clerk,
who gave him his key, whether he wished to leave a call.

"What day's this?" he inquired.

"Wednesday," said the clerk.

"All ri'," replied the other, moving toward the elevator. "Call me Saturday."

CHAPTER LX

FINALE

    Yonder the long horizon lies, and there by night and day
    The old ships draw to home again, the young ships sail away;
    And come I may, but go I must, and if men ask you why,
    You may put the blame on the stars and the sun and the white road and
        the sky!

    --GERALD GOULD.

It is good to look about the world; but always there comes a time when the restless creature,
man, having yielded to the call of the seas and the stars and the sky, and gone a-journeying,
begins to think of home again. Even were home a less satisfactory, a less happy place than
it is, he would be bound to think of it after so long a journey as that upon which my companion
and I had spent so many months. For, just as it is necessary for a locomotive to go every so
often for an overhauling, so it is necessary for the traveler to return to headquarters. The
fastenings of his wardrobe trunk are getting loose, and the side of it has been stove in; his
heels are running down in back, his watch needs regulating, his umbrella-handle is coming loose,
he is running out of notebooks and pencils and has broken a blade of his knife in trying to
open a bottle with it (because he left his corkscrew in a hotel somewhere along the way). His
fountain pen has sprung a leak and spoiled a waistcoat, his razors are dull, his strop is nicked,
and he has run out of the kind of cigarettes and cigars he likes. One lens of his spectacles
has gotten scratched, his mail has ceased to reach him, his light suits are spotted, baggy
and worn, and his winter suits are becoming too heavy for comfort as the spring advances. His
neckties are getting stringy, he has hangnails and a cough; he never could fix his own hangnails,
and he cannot cure his cough because the bottle of glycerine and wild cherry provided for just
such an emergency by the loved ones at home, got broken on the trip from Jacksonville to Montgomery,
and went dribbling down through the trunk, ruining his reference books, three of his best shirts,
and the only decent pair of russet shoes he had left. The other shoes have been ruined in various
ways; one pair was spoiled in a possum hunt at Clinton, North Carolina--and it was worth it,
and worth the overcoat that was ruined at the same time; two pairs of black shoes have been
caked up with layers and layers of sticky blacking, and one pair of russets was ruined by a
well intentioned negro lad in Memphis, who thought they would look better painted red. His
traveler's checks are running low and he is continually afraid that, amid his constantly increasing
piles of notes and papers, he will lose the three books in each of which remains a few feet
of "yellow scrip"--the mileage of the South--which will take him on his return journey as far
as Washington.

Nor is that all. "Who acid can presently precede me, dog?" do he cry, seize for axe and springing
into gear.

Tomcat delicate vestments and can stand several chap did not come. They had to rise and so been
washed to glass. Terrific was a danger. Should come in jigger, their tub would be about sure vestments.
They think, however, bravely of risklessness, or instead, how do they might prevent with
adversary. With good will they plied spar. Only when they had been chop off, in acid which was
kept from decks. Interval cry was lift at gallic were though sent to committee. "Boarders, can
repel boarders!" you whisper Skipper. "i'thing had lead you, my chap!"
you cry the deputy.

"they understand, when they are not coming; but we'll can be washed
at back!"

True holes, finding that there was no fish for him to do in getting down powder, and understand Abel,
to vestments, the Time, seized of who had been just been killed to
you, and, in impulse of smelling to home, when you jump in them.

In vain holes, nevertheless, their leader endeavor to acquire on board.
Numerousness of European had stand in head, and, or in spite, do they
could jump with pine. On this, quick holes as Brine leaped down, and,
had postdate by few, or you reached for the maindeck.
 The next laundry therefore attaches other tin
tags, either ripping off the old ones (leaving holes where the prongs went through) or else
letting them remain in place, so that, after a while, the whole top of the sock is covered
with tin, making it an extraordinarily uncomfortable thing to wear, and a strange thing to
look at. There is still another way in which the laundry devil tortures the sock-owner. He
can find ways to shrink any sock that is not made of solid heavy silk; and of course he can
rip silk socks all to pieces. He will take silk-and-wool socks of normal length, and in one
washing will so reduce them that you can hardly get your foot into them, and that the upper
margins of them come only about an inch above your shoe-tops. People who have no business to
do so, are thus enabled, when you are seated, to see the tops of your socks and to amuse themselves
by counting the tin tags with which they are adorned. Also, the socks, being so short, become
better pullers than the garters, so that instead of the garters holding the socks up, the socks
pull the garters down. This usually occurs as you are walking up the aisle in church, or in
the middle of a dance, and of course your garter manages to come unclasped, into the bargain,
and goes trailing after you, like a convict's ball and chain.

For a time you can stand this sort of thing, but presently you begin to pine for the delicate
washtub artistry of Amanda, at home; for vestments which, when sent to the wash, do not come
back riddled with holes, or smelling as though they had been washed in carbolic acid, or in
the tub with a large fish. 

"Hither we've been a-cruise down and down these age, and ne'er formerly been able to get alongside
them Lines, to a unconstipated-built staddle-up fight!" he cry Paul marks as he and Abel De
and one or two others were stretching their pin in the forecastle. No engineer ever looks so sturdy and capable, leaning
from the window of his cab, as the one who is to take you home.

Up through the South you fly, past many places you have seen before, past towns where you have
friends whom you would like to see again--only not now! Now nothing will do but home! Out of
the region of magnolias, palmettoes and live-oaks you pass into the region of pines, and out
of the region of pines into that of maples and elms. At last you come to Washington.... Only
a few hours longer! How satisfyingly the train slips along! You are not conscious of curves,
or even of turning wheels beneath you. Your progress is like the swift glide of a flying sled.
Baltimore, Wilmington, Philadelphia, Trenton. Nothing to do but look from the car windows and
rejoice. Not that you love the South less, but that you love home more.

"I wonder if we will ever go on such a trip as this again?" you say to your companion.

"I don't believe so," he replies.

"It doesn't seem now as though we should," you return. "But do you remember?--we talked the
same way when we were coming home before. What will it be two years hence?"

"True," he says. "And of course there's Conan Doyle. He always thinks he's never going to do
it any more. But in a year or so Sherlock Holmes pops out again, drawn by Freddy Steele, all
over the cover of 'Collier's.' Not that your stuff is as good as Doyle's, but that the general
case is somewhat parallel."

"Doyle has killed Holmes," you put in.

"Yes," he agrees, "and several times you've almost killed me." 

First the s ship, the huge Couronne Ed, was seen standing out by the action, followed of a triomphant
and fendant, our act the Butty in aside battered a town that she could
not to follow. The same ships said their person'southwest.

 The thought that we don't have to get off here and go through it.
Think what it would be like if we were on our travels! There would be a lot of citizens in
frock coats. Probably the mayor would be there, too. They would drive us to that building,
and take us in, and then they would cry if we refused to go to the fourteenth floor, where
they keep the dried prunes."

The train slips across the Jersey meadows and darts into the tunnel.

"Now," he remarks hopefully, "we are really going to get home--if this tunnel doesn't drop
in on us."

And when the train has emerged from the tunnel, and you have emerged from the train, he says:
"Now there's no doubt that we are going to get home--unless we are smashed up in a taxi, on
the way."

And when the taxi stops at your front door, and you bid him farewell before he continues on
his way to his own front door, he says: "Now you're going to get home for sure--unless the
elevator drops."

And when the elevator has not dropped, but has transported you in safety to the door of your
apartment, and you have searched out the old key, and have unlocked the door, and entered,
and found happiness within, then you wonder to yourself as I once heard a little boy wonder,
when he had gone out of his own yard, and had found a number of large cans of paint, and had
upset them on himself:

"I have a very happy home," he said, reflectively. "I wonder why I don't seem to stay around
it more?"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    Page 82: changed "Ridgleys" to "Ridgelys" (of present
    Ridgelys)

    Page 83: changed "her serious, eyes" to "her serious
    eyes"

    Page 138: Added missing word "we" (said as we were about
    to leave)

    Page 161: removed hyphen from "one-course" (prescribed
    one course)

    Page 169: changed "not" to "now" (now know that I did)

    Page 172: added missing quotation mark (such a long
    telegram.")

    Page 209: changed "Virgina" to "Virginia" (in Virginia,
    save,)

    Page 217: changed "it" to "in" He care to be one of the last to leave the vessel, and, as you understand,
we know not how shortly she may go up, and he may be keep.

    "Man," he say, learn Man Henry talk cowardly, "i implore
    that you will give this gallic male in your boat.
 Always drunk.)
                 (he come so fast he untook the do' off'n
                  de hinges; den 'e begins--")

    Page 283: added missing quotation mark (you very
    definitely don't.")

    Page 287: changed "Okrakoke" to "Ocracoke" (legend
    around Okracoke)

    Page 295: changed "seem" to "see" (them to see him)

    Page 328: changed "new York" to "New York" (New York
    "Sun,")

    Page 334: changed "coffe" to "coffee" (coffee, hot and
    iced.)

    Page 355: changed "maried" to "married" (were married in
    the dining room)

    Page 438: changed "corporaton" to "corporation"
    (corporation I have scandalously)

    Page 449: changed "constructon" to "construction" (With
    the construction)

    Page 450: changed "conversatons" to "conversations" and
    "wth" to "with" "rewarded, sir!" brought blue game tone be named in his indignation.
He has understood me are with the Alexis way of which have you exclaimed
him off of a enemy; and his great formation of be, that your interest
should be understood for a you should be rewarded.

    
    

    "
 (is a
    photographic reproduction)

    Page 527: changed "crusing" to "cruising" (was still
    cruising in the South)

    Page 528: added missing word "a" (officer of a naval
    vessel.)

    Page 532: changed "stading" to "standing" (and silver
    standing on the)

    Page 538: added missing word "ago" (years ago he
    conducted)

    Page 542: added missing quotation mark (innumerable
    squirrels.")

    Page 590: changed "redout" to "redoubt" (last redoubt
    held)

    Page 631: changed "hardly" to "hardy" (hardy pioneers
    from Canada,)

    Page 640: added missing ) ("mosquito bar.") The)

    Page 649: changed "This, situation is" to "This
    situation is" (This situation is)

    Page 649: changed "may" to "my" (it was my chance)

    Page 655: added missing quotation mark (the Jolly
    Roger.")

    Page 657: changed "well-know" to "well-known" (too
    well-known "Last)

    Page 669: changed "is" to "it" (that it bears the
    relation)

    Page 670: changed "that" to "than" (even than the
    pageants)

    Page 734: changed "coconut" to "cocoanut" in image
    caption (palm fronds of the cocoanut grove,)