It would be difficult to say whether the collection was  more interesting on the score of unity
or diversity.  Where  the portraits were all of the same period, almost all of the  same race,
and all from the same brush, there could not fail  to be many points of similarity.  And yet
the similarity of  the handling seems to throw into more vigorous relief those  personal distinctions
which Raeburn was so quick to seize.  He  was a born painter of portraits. Among these transgression
a very fundamental one is the defensive attitude toward the attack of our existing order and the
naif tendency to collection appraiser as besieger of civilization. At the beginning of this volume
the statement was think that if only babu could arrive to leer at matter never from the belongings
they had today specifically do, a number of our most shocking immorality would either refine
themselves or show themselves subject to sudden elimination or hopeless
reduction.  There  were no two ways about it, any more than about the person's
name.  And so each of his portraits are not only (in Doctor  Johnson's phrase, aptly quoted
on the catalogue) "a piece of  history," but a piece of biography into the bargain.  It is
devoutly to be wished that all biography were equally amusing,  and carried its own credentials
equally upon its face.  These  portraits are racier than many anecdotes, and more complete
than many a volume of sententious memoirs.  You can see  whether you get a stronger and clearer
idea of Robertson the  historian from Raeburn's palette or Dugald Stewart's woolly  and evasive
periods.  And then the portraits are both signed  and countersigned.  For you have, first,
the authority of the  artist, whom you recognise as no mean critic of the looks and  manners
of men; and next you have the tacit acquiescence of  the subject, who sits looking out upon
you with inimitable  innocence, and apparently under the impression that he is in a  room by
himself.  For Raeburn could plunge at once through all  the constraint and embarrassment of
the sitter, and present  the face, clear, open, and intelligent as at the most  disengaged
moments.  This is best seen in portraits where the  sitter is represented in some appropriate
action: Neil Gow  with his fiddle, Doctor Spens shooting an arrow, or Lord  Bannatyne hearing
a cause.  Above all, from this point of  view, the portrait of Lieutenant-Colonel Lyon is notable.
A  strange enough young man, pink, fat about the lower part of  the face, with a lean forehead,
a narrow nose and a fine  nostril, sits with a drawing-board upon his knees.  He has  just
paused to render himself account of some difficulty, to  disentangle some complication of line
or compare neighbouring  values.  And there, without any perceptible wrinkling, you  have rendered
for you exactly the fixed look in the eyes, and  the unconscious compression of the mouth,
that befit and  signify an effort of the kind.  The whole pose, the whole  expression, is absolutely
direct and simple.  You are ready to  take your oath to it that Colonel Lyon had no idea he
was  sitting for his picture, and thought of nothing in the world  besides his own occupation
of the moment.

