MY BOOK

OF

FAVOURITE FAIRY TALES

ILLUSTRATED BY JENNIE HARBOUR.

MY BOOK OF

FAVOURITE FAIRY TALES

RETOLD BY THE EDITOR

& OTHERS

ILLUSTRATED BY JENNIE HARBOUR

EDITED BY CAPT. EDRIC VREDENBURG

RAPHAEL TUCK &. SONS. But the old stories, I may tell you, are always new, and always must
be so, because there are new children to read them every day, and to these, of course, these
old tales might have been written yesterday.

But the stories in this book are new in another way. Look how they are clothed, look at their
beautiful setting, the wonderful pictures! Have you ever seen such charming princes and lovely
princesses, such dainty grace and delicate feeling?

What would our grandfathers and grandmothers have said of such a book! They would have thought
there was magic in the brush and pencil.

Surely we are favoured in this generation when we see before us, the old, old fairy tales,
which are ever new, dressed in such a beautiful and splendid fashion!

EDRIC VREDENBURG. Then the queen, her mother, packed up a great many costly things--jewels,
and gold, and silver; trinkets, fine dresses, and, in short, everything that became a royal
bride; for she loved her child very dearly: and she gave her a waiting-maid to ride with her,
and give her into the bridegroom's hands; and each had a horse for the journey. Now the princess's
horse was called Falada, and could speak.

When the time came for them to set out, the old queen went into her bed-chamber, and took a
little knife, and cut off a lock of her hair, and gave it to her daughter, and said, "Take
care of it, dear child; for it is a charm that may be of use to you on the road." Then they
took a sorrowful leave of each other, and the princess put the lock of her mother's hair into
her bosom, got upon her horse, and set off on her journey to her bridegroom's kingdom. One
day, as they were riding along by the side of a brook, the princess began to feel very thirsty,
and said to her maid, "Pray get down and fetch me some water, in my golden cup, out of yonder
brook, for I want to drink." "Nay," said the maid, "if you are thirsty, get down yourself,
and lie down by the water and drink; I shall not be your waiting-maid any longer." Then the
princess was so thirsty that she got down, and knelt over the brook and drank, for she was
frightened, and dared not bring out her golden cup; and then she wept, and said "Alas! what
will become of me?" And the lock of hair answered her, and said--

      "Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,
      Sadly, sadly her heart would rue it."

But the princess was very humble and meek, so she said nothing to her maid's ill behaviour,
but got upon her horse again.

Then all rode further on their journey, till the day grew so warm, and the sun so scorching,
that the bride began to feel very thirsty again; and at last, when they came to a river, she
forgot her maid's rude speech, and said, "Pray get down and fetch me some water to drink in
my golden cup." But the maid answered her, and even spoke more haughtily than before, "Drink,
if you will, but I shall not be your waiting-maid." Then the princess was so thirsty that she
got off her horse and lay down, and held her head over the running stream, and cried, and said,
"What will become of me?"

And as she leaned down to drink, the lock of hair fell from her bosom and floated away with
the water, without her seeing it, she was so frightened. But her maid saw it, and was very
glad, for she knew the charm, and saw that the poor bride would be in her power now that she
had lost the hair. So when the bride had drunk, and would have got upon Falada again, the maid
said, "I shall ride upon Falada and you may have my horse instead;" so she was forced to give
up her horse, and soon afterwards to take off her royal clothes, and put on her maid's shabby ones.

At last, as they drew near the end of the journey, this treacherous servant threatened to kill
her mistress if she ever told anyone what had happened. But Falada saw it all, and marked it
well. Then the waiting-maid got upon Falada, and the real bride was set upon the other horse,
and they went on in this way till at last they came to the royal court. There was great joy
at their coming, the prince hurried to meet them, and lifted the maid from her horse, thinking
she was the one who was to be his wife; and she was led upstairs to the royal chamber, but
the true princess was told to stay in the court below.

But the old king happened to be looking out of the window, and saw her in the yard below; and
as she looked very pretty, and too delicate for a waiting-maid, he went into the royal chamber
to ask the bride who it was she had brought with her, that was thus left standing in the court
below. "I brought her with me for the sake of her company on the road," said she. "Pray give
the girl some work to do, that she may not be idle." The old king could not for some time think
of any work for her to do, but at last he said, "I have a lad who takes care of my geese; she
may go and help him." Now the name of this lad, that the real bride was to help in watching
the king's geese, was Curdken.

Soon after, the false bride said to the prince, "Dear husband pray do me one piece of kindness."
"That I will," said the prince. "Then tell one of your slaughterers to cut off the head of
the horse I rode upon, for it was very unruly, and plagued me sadly on the road." But the truth
was, she was very much afraid lest Falada should speak, and tell all she had done to the princess.
She carried her point, and the faithful Falada was killed; but when the true princess heard
of it she wept, and begged the man to nail up Falada's head against a large dark gate in the
city through which she had to pass every morning and evening, that there she might still see
him sometimes. Then the slaughterer said he would do as she wished; cut off the head, and nailed
it fast under the dark gate.

Early the next morning, as she and Curdken went out through the gate, she said sorrowfully--

      "Falada, Falada, there thou art hanging!"

and the head answered--

      "Bride, bride, there thou art ganging!

Then they went out of the city, and drove the geese in. And when she came to the meadow, she
sat down upon a bank here, and let down her waving locks of hair, which were all of pure gold;
and when Curdken saw it glitter in the sun, he ran up, and would have pulled some of the locks
out; but she cried--

      "Blow, breezes, blow!
      Let Curdken's hat go!
      Blow, breezes, blow!
      Let him after it go!
      O'er hills, dales, and rocks.
      Away be it whirl'd,
      Till the golden locks
      Are all comb'd and curl'd!"

Then there came a wind, so strong that it blew off Curdken's hat, and away it flew over the
hills, and he after it; till, by the time he came back, she had done combing and curling her
hair, and put it up again safe. Then he was very angry and sulky, and would not speak to her
at all; but they watched the geese until it grew dark in the evening, and then drove them homewards.
So they watched the geese till it grew dark.

In the evening, after they came home, Curdken went to the old king, and said, "I cannot have
that strange girl to help me to keep the geese any longer."

"Why?" said the king.

"Because she does nothing but tease me all day long."

Then the king made him tell all that had passed.

And Curdken went on telling the king what had happened upon the meadow where the geese fed;
and how his hat was blown away, and he was forced to run after it, and leave his flock.

And soon came a gale of wind, and carried away Curdken's hat, while the girl went on combing
and curling her hair.

All this the old king saw: so he went home without being seen; and when the little goose girl
came back in the evening, he called her aside, and asked her why she did so: but she burst
into tears, and said, "That I must not tell you or any man, or I shall lose my life."

But the old king begged so hard that she had no peace till she had told him all, word for word:
and it was very lucky for her that she did so, for the king ordered royal clothes to be put
upon her, and gazed on her with wonder, she was so beautiful.

Then he called his son, and told him that he had only the false bride, for that she was merely
a waiting-maid, while the true one stood by.

And the young king rejoiced when he saw her beauty, and heard how meek and patient she had
been; and without saying anything, ordered a great feast to be got ready for all his court.

The bridegroom sat at the top, with the false princess on one side, and the true one on the
other; but nobody knew her, for she was quite dazzling to their eyes, and was not at all like
the little goose-girl, now that she had her brilliant dress.

When they had eaten and drunk, and were very merry, the old king told all the story, as one
that he had once heard of, and asked the true waiting-maid what she thought ought to be done
to anyone who would behave thus.

"Nothing better," said this false bride, "than that she should be thrown into a cask stuck
round with sharp nails, and that two white horses should be put to it, and should drag it from
street to street till she is dead."

"Thou art she!" said the old king; "and since thou hast judged thyself, it shall be so done
to thee."

And the young king was married to his true wife, and they reigned over the kingdom in peace
and happiness all their lives.

LITTLE SNOW-WHITE

It was in the middle of winter, when the broad flakes of snow were falling around, that a certain
queen sat working at the window, the frame of which was made of fine black ebony; and as she
was looking out upon the snow, she pricked her finger, and three drops of blood fell upon it.
Then she gazed thoughtfully upon the red drops which sprinkled the white snow, and said, "Would
that my little daughter may be as white as that snow, as red as the blood, and as black as
the ebony window-frame!" And so the little girl grew up: her skin was as white as snow, her
cheeks as rosy as blood, and her hair as black as ebony; and she was called Snow-White.

But this queen died; and the king soon married another wife, who was very beautiful, but so
proud that she could not bear to think that any one could surpass her. She had a magical looking-glass,
to which she used to go and gaze upon herself in it, and say,

      "Tell me, glass, tell me true!
      Of all the ladies in the land.
      Who is fairest? Tell me who?"

And the glass answered, "Thou, Queen, art fairest in the land."

But Snow-White grew more and more beautiful; and when she was seven years old, she was as bright
as the day, and fairer than the queen herself. Then the glass one day answered the queen, when
she went to consult it as usual:

      "Thou, Queen, may'st fair and beauteous be,
      But Snow-White is lovelier far than thee!"

When she heard this she turned pale with rage and envy; and calling to one of her servants
said, "Take Snow-White away into the wide wood, that I may never see her more." Then the servant
led her away; but his heart melted when she begged him to spare her life, and he said, "I will
not hurt thee, thou pretty child." So he left her by herself, and though he thought it most
likely that the wild beasts would tear her to pieces, he felt as if a great weight were taken
off his heart when he had made up his mind not to kill her, but leave her to her fate.

Then poor Snow-White wandered along through the wood in great fear; and the wild beasts roared
about her, but none did her any harm. In the evening she came to a little cottage, and went
in there to rest herself, for her weary feet would carry her no further. Everything was spruce
and neat in the cottage: on the table was spread a white cloth, and there were seven little
plates with seven little loaves and seven little glasses with wine in them; and knives and
forks laid in order, and by the wall stood seven little beds. Then, as she was very hungry,
she picked a little piece off each loaf, and drank a very little wine out of each glass; and
after that she thought she would lie down and rest. So she tried all the little beds; and one
was too long, and another was too short, till at last the seventh suited her; and there she
laid herself down and went to sleep. Presently in came the masters of the cottage, who were
seven little dwarfs that lived among the mountains, and dug and searched about for gold. They
lighted up their seven lamps, and saw directly that all was not right. The first said, "Who
has been sitting on my stool?" The second, "Who has been eating off my plate?" The third, "Who
has been picking at my bread?" the fourth, "Who has been meddling with my spoon?" The fifth,
"Who has been handling my fork?" The sixth, "Who has been cutting with my knife?" The seventh,
"Who has been drinking my wine?" Then the first looked round and said. "Who has been lying
on my bed?" And the rest came running to him, and every one cried out that somebody had been
upon his bed. But the seventh saw Snow-White, and called upon his brethren to come and see
her; and they cried out with wonder and astonishment, and brought their lamps to look at her,
and said, "Good heavens! What a lovely child she is!" and they were delighted to see her, and
took care not to waken her; and the seventh dwarf slept an hour with each of the other dwarfs
in turn, till the night was gone.

In the morning Snow-White told them all her story; and they pitied her, and said if she would
keep all things in order, and cook and wash, and knit and spin for them, she might stay where
she was, and they would take good care of her. Then they went out all day long to their work,
seeking for gold and silver in the mountains; and Snow-White remained at home: and they warned
her, and said, "The queen will soon find out where you are, so take care and let no one in."
But the queen, now that she thought Snow-White was dead, believed that she was certainly the
handsomest lady in the land; and she went to her glass, and the glass answered,

      "Thou, Queen, thou art fairest in all this land;
      But over the hills, in the greenwood shade.
      Where the seven dwarfs their dwelling have made.
      There Snow-White is hiding her head; and she
      Is lovelier far, O Queen, than thee."

Then the queen was very much alarmed; for she knew that the glass always spoke the truth, and
was sure that the servant had betrayed her. And she could not bear to think that anyone lived
who was more beautiful than she was; so she disguised herself as a pedlar and went her way
over the hills to the place where the dwarfs dwelt. Then she knocked at the door, and cried,
"Fine wares to sell!" Snow-White looked out of the window, and cried, "Good-day, good woman;
what have you to sell?" "Good wares, fine wares," said she; "laces and bobbins of all colours."
"I will let the old lady in; she seems to be a very good sort of a body," thought Snow-White;
so she ran down, and unbolted the door. "Bless me!" said the woman, "how badly your stays are
laced. Let me lace them up with one of my nice new laces." Snow-White did not dream of any
mischief; so she stood up before the old woman; but she set to work so nimbly, and pulled the
lace so tight, that Snow-White lost her breath, and fell down as if she were dead. "There's
an end of all thy beauty," said the spiteful queen, and went away home.

