"Not that; not at all!" gayly answered Anstruther. "I have a long leave, and I only ran over
here to oblige His Excellency." He spoke with all the easy disdain of all underlings born of
an Indian official life--the habitual disregard of the Briton for his inferior surroundings.
"By Jove! you may help me out yourself! You're an old Delhi man!" He gazed earnestly at Hawke,
who started nervously, and then said:

"You know I've been away for a good bit of the ten years in the far Orient, but I used to know
them all, before I went out of the line."

"Then you surely know old Hugh Johnstone, the rich, old, retired deputy commissioner of Oude?"
Alan Hawke slowly sipped his champagne, for his Delhi memories were both risky and uncertain
ground.

"I fail to recall the name, Johnstone--Johnstone," murmured Hawke.

"Why, everyone knows old Johnstone; he is an old mutiny man. You surely do! He was Hugh Fraser
until he took the name of Johnstone, ten years or so ago, on a Scotch relative leaving him
a handsome Highland estate!" There was a warning rustle at Hawke's left, as the fair stranger
prepared for her flitting.

"I was very intimate with Hugh Fraser in my griffin days. But I thought he had retired and
gone back home. He is enormously rich, and an old bachelor! I know him very well; he was a
good friend of mine in the old days, too!"

Anstruther leaned toward Hawke, as he signed to the waiter to refill his hearer's glass. "Well,
I can surprise even you! He has turned up with a beautiful daughter--at Delhi--just about the
prettiest girl I ever--"

"Je demande mills pardons, Madame!" politely cried Major Hawke, as his fair neighbor's wineglass
went shivering down in a crystalline wreck.

"Pas de quoi, Monsieur," suavely replied the woman whom till now he had hardly noticed. A moment
later the slight damage was repaired, and then Captain the Honorable Anson Anstruther had his
little innings.

With courtly hospitality he offered the creamy champagne as a remplacement for the lost vin
du pays.

A charming smile rewarded the gallant youth, while Major Hawke turned with interest to the
renewal of the interrupted narrative. He had caught a glance of burning intensity from the
dark brown eyes of the lady a la Houbigant, which set every nerve in his body tingling. It
was a challenge to a companionship, and, as he led on the triumphant Anstruther, he deeply
regretted the absence of that most necessary organ,--an eye in the back of the head. He was
dimly aware that his beautiful neighbor was very leisurely drinking the peace offering of the
susceptible son of Mars. "I will bet hundreds to ha'pennies she speaks English!" quickly reflected
the now aroused Major.

"You astound me, Anstruther," the Major said. "Not a lawful child! Some Eurasian legacy--a
relic of the old days of the Pagoda Tree! Why, the old commissioner always was a woman hater,
and absolutely hostile to all social influences!" The Captain was now stealing longing glances
at the willowy figure of the beautiful woman whose glistening dark brown eyes were turned to
him with a languid glance, as Alan Hawke leaned forward. To prolong the sight of that bewitching
half profile, with the fair, low brows, the velvet cheeks, a Provencale flush tinting them,
the parted lips a dainty challenge speaking, and the rich masses of dark brown hair nobly crowning
her regal outlines, Anstruther yielded to the spell and babbled on. "The whole thing is a strange
melange of official business and dying gossip!" dreamily said Anstruther with his eyes straying
over the ivory throat, the superbly modeled bust and perfect figure of the young Venus Victrix.

He was duly rewarded by a glance of secret intelligence when he leaned back, dreamily closing
his eyes. "You see, they were going to make old Hugh Fraser or Hugh Johnstone, as he is now
called, a baronet for some secret services to the Crown of an important nature, rendered about
the time when mad Hodson piled up the whole princely succession to the House of Oude in a trophy
of naked corpsess pistoling them with his own hand." He ordered a third bottle of Pommery,
with a wave of his hand, and proceeded: "Of course, you know, Her Majesty's Government always
closely investigate the social antecedents of the nominee in such cases. The change of name
is all right; it is regularly entered at Herald's College and all that sort of thing, but the
Chief has heard of the sudden appearance of this beautiful daughter. Now, old Johnstone surely
never looked the way of woman in India! It's true that he went back about twenty years ago
to England on a two years' leave. He has lived the life of a splendid recluse in his magnificent
old bungalow on the Chandnee Chouk."

Anstruther paused, fishing for another fugitive smile. He caught it behind the back of the
wary adventurer.

"I know the old house well," said Hawke with an affected unconcern. "Men were always entertained
royally there, but I never saw a woman of station in its vast saloons."

"Now there you are!" cried Anstruther, lightly resuming: "I was sent up to Delhi to delicately
find out about this alleged daughter, for the Chief does not want to throw Johnstone's baronetcy
over. The fact is before they packed the toothless old King of Oude away to Rangoon to die
with his favorite wife and their one wolf cub out there, Hugh Fraser skillfully extorted a
surrender of a huge private treasure of jewels from these people while they were hidden away
in Humayoon's tomb. There's one trust deposit yet to be divided between the Government and
this sly old Indo-Scotch-man, and I fancy the empty honor of the baronetcy is a quid pro quo."
Alan Hawke laughed heartily. "It is really diamond cut diamond, then."

"Precisely," said Anstruther, as he most calmly waved his hand to the steward, who silently
refilled even the glass of the Venus Anonyma. A slight inclination of the head and parthian
glance number three, encouraged Anstruther to hasten and conclude, for the moon was sailing
grandly over the lake now.

Love thrilled in the young man's vacant heart, sounding the chords of the Harp of Life. He
had been in a glittering Indian exile long enough to be very susceptible. "I spent two weeks
up there with the expectant Sir Hugh Johnstone," lightly rattled on the aid. "I verified the
fact that the young woman is his acknowledged daughter. He has no other lineal heir to the
title, for an old, dry-as-dust, retired Edinburgh professor, a brother, childless and eccentric,
is living near St. Helier's, in Jersey, in a beautiful Norman chateau farm mansion, where old
Hugh proposed once to end his days. It seems to be all square enough. I was as delicate as
I could be about it, and the matter is apparently all right. The papers have all gone on, and,
in due time, Hugh Fraser will be Sir Hugh Johnstone!"

Anstruther quaffed a beaker with guileful ideas of detaining his fair neighbor, now ruffling
her plumage for departure, for only a sporadic knot of diners here and there lingered at the
long table. "The girl herself?" asked Hawke, with a strange desire to know more.

"Report has duly magnified her hidden charms," replied Anstruther. "She is called "The Veiled
Rose of Delhi," and no manner of man may lift that mystic veil. I was treated en prince, but
held at arm's length."

Hawke smiled softly, and said in a low voice, "I hardly see how all this brings you over here.
The Rose blooms by the far-away Jumna."

"Then know, my friend," laughed Anstruther, "such a rose as the peerless Nadine Johnstone must
have a duenna." He deftly caught an impassioned glance from the softly shining brown eyes,
and hastily went on. "She was educated right here in this emporium of watches, musical boxes,
correct principles, and scientific research. Mesdames Justine and Euphrosyne Delande, No. 122
Rue du Rhone, conduct an institute (justly renowned) where calisthenics, a view of the lake,
a little music, a great deal of bad French, and the Conversations Lexicon, with some surface
womanly graces, may all be had for some two hundred pounds a year. Miss Justine Delande, a
sedately gray-tinted spinster, has been tempted to remain on guard for a year out in India,
having safely conducted this Pearl of Jeunes Personnes Bien Elevees out to the old Qui Hai.
I have been charged with some few necessary explanations and negotiations, the delivery of
some presents, and, when I have visited this first-class institute, enjoying all the attractions
of the Jardin Anglais and the Promenade du Lac, I shall flee these tranquil slopes of the Pennine
Alps. Incidentally, the records of Mademoiselle Euphrosyne will confirm the very natural story
of the would-be Sir Hugh, whose vanished wife no Anglo-Indian has ever seen. She is supposably
dead. A last official note after I have run on to Paris will close up the whole awkward matter.
I will call there tomorrow and then take the early train, as I am on for a lot of family visits
and sporting events before I can settle down to have my bit of a fling."

"It's a very strange story," murmured Alan Hawke. "No man ever suspected Hugh Fraser of family
honors."

"And 'the Rose of Delhi!' will probably marry some lucky fellow out there, as old Johnstone
has lacs and lacs of rupees," said Anstruther, "for he cannot keep her in his great gardens
forever, guarded by the stony-eyed Swiss spinster, or let her run around as the Turks do their
priceless pet sheep with a silver bell around her neck. There was some old marital unhappiness,
I suppose, for the girl is evidently born in wedlock, and the story is straight enough."

"Have you seen her?" eagerly inquired Hawke.

"Just a few stolen glimpses," hastily replied Anstruther, politely rising and bowing as the
fair unknown suddenly left her seat, in evident confusion.

The two men strolled out of the salle & manger together, Major Alan Hawke critically observing
the heightened color and evident elan of his aristocratic friend.

"Oh! I say, Hawke," cried Anstruther, "they'll show you up to my rooms in a few moments. I'll
go and see the maitre d'hotel here! The service is beastly--beastly!" and the youth fled quickly
away.

Major Alan Hawke nodded affably, and slowly mounted the staircase to his room, wondering if
the aid-de-camp was destined by the gods to furnish forth his purse for the return to India.
"He's pretty well set up now, and he evidently has his eye upon this brown-eyed nixie. Dare
I rush my luck? The boy's a bit stupid at cards." With downcast eyes the anxious adventurer
wandered along the corridor in the dimly-lighted second story. It was the turning point of
his career.

There was the rapid rustle of silk, the patter of gliding feet, a warm, trembling hand seized
his own, and in the darkness of a window recess he was aware that he was suddenly made the
prize of the fair corsair ci la Houbigant. "Quick, quick, tell me! Do you go with him?" the
strange enchantress said, in excited tones, using the English tongue as if to the manner born.

"Madame! I hardly understand," cautiously said the astounded Major.

"I want you to help me! You must help me! I must see him! I must find out all." The sound of
a servant's steps arrested her incoherent remarks. "Wait here!" the excited woman whispered,
as she walked back down the hall. There was a whispered colloquy, and Alan Hawke caught the
gleam of the silver neck chain of the maitre d'hotel. The sound of an opening door was heard,
and, in a few moments the flying Camilla returned to her hidden prey.

"Tell me truly," she panted, "what will you do with him? He wishes me to ride with him; my
answer depends on you. You are in trouble; I can see it in your haggard eyes. Help me now,
and--and I will help you!" And then Alan Hawke spoke truly to the waif of Destiny, whom chance
had thrown in his way.

"I only wish to play with him for a couple of hours; if luck turns my way, that will be time
enough!"

"Ah! you would have money! Let him go away in peace! Help me to-morrow, here, and I will give
you money!"

"What is your own scheme?" the doubting vaurien demanded.

"I must know all of this Hugh Johnstone, all about this girl," she whispered, her lips almost
touching his cheek.

"Let me play with him to-night; I am yours as soon as he departs!" sullenly said Hawke.

"Then, finish in two hours," the woman said, gathering her draperies to flee away, "for I will
ride with him to-night!"

"Just a bit unconventional," murmured Alan Hawke. "Who the devil can this French-English woman
be anyway." He realized that some subtle game depended upon the memories of the past strangely
evoked by the artless Anstruther's babble. As he strolled back to the smoking-room, he saw
the maitre d'hotel slyly deliver a twisted bit of paper to the all too unconcerned looking
young Adonis, and the gleam of a napoleon shone out in the grave faced Figaro's hand. "Now
for our cafe noir, a good pousse cafe--and--a dash at the painted beauties. I can't play very
long," was Anstruther's salutation, as he complacently twisted his mustache en hussar. Major
Hawke bowed in a silent delight.

And so it fell out that both wolf and panther--hungry vulpine prowler and sleek feminine soft-footed
enemy--gathered closely, around the young British Lion, whose easy self-complacency led him
into the snare, hoodwinked by the fair unknown Delilah.

Alan Hawke strode to the windows of Anstruther's rooms and standing there, watched the drifting
moonbeams mantling on the spectral blue lake, while his chance-met friend rang for a waiter.
There was the murmur of confidential orders, and then Anson Anstruther with a bright smile
dropped easily into the role of host. The young staff officer was so elated by the apparently
flattering selection of the fair anonyma that he never considered the idea of possible foul
play. It was evident that Major Hawke had not noticed the little by-play which was the delightful
undercurrent of the table d'hotel dinner. There was no time lost in the preliminaries of the
card duel.

Through curling blue wreaths of aromatic incense, over the brandy-dashed coffee, the two men
sententiously struggled for the smiles of Fortune, with impassive faces, in a rapid duel of
wits as the fleeting moments sped along.

The tide of luck was set dead against Anstruther, who strangely seemed to be now possessed
of a merry devil. He made perilous excursions into the land of brandy and soda, gayly faced
his bad fortune, and feverishly chattered over the well-worn Anglo-Indian gossip adroitly introduced
by the now nerve-steadied Hawke. General Renwick's loss of his faded and feeble spouse, the
far-famed "Poor Thing" of much polite apology for her socially aristocratic ailments; Vane
Tempest's singular elopement with the beautiful wife of a green subaltern; Harry Chillingly's
untoward end while potting tigers; Count Platen's enormous winnings at Baccarat; Fitzgerald
Law's falling into a peerage; and Mrs. Claire Atterbury, the wealthy widow's purchase of a
handsome boy-husband fresh from Sandhurst. All this with Jack Blunt's long expected ruin, and
a spicy court-martial or two, furnished a running accompaniment to Anstruther's expensive "personally
conducted tour" into the intricacies of ecarte, led on by the coolest safety player who ever
fleeced a griffin. Truly these were golden moments. The Major's cool steady eyes were sternly
fixed on his cards.

The self-imposed sentence of suicide of the afternoon was indefinitely postponed when Alan
Hawke amiably nodded as Anstruther at last apologized for glancing at his watch. "I've a bit
to do to get ready for to-morrow, and we'll try one more hand and then I'll say good-night."

"Well, I'll give you your revenge at any time, Anstruther! By the way, what's your London address?"
Hawke was complacently good humored as he glanced at a visiting card whereon sundry comfortable
figures were roughly totted up.

"Junior United Service, always," carelessly said Anstruther. "They keep run of me, for I'm
off for the woods as soon as the shooting season opens. Where will you be this winter?"

Major Hawke assumed a mysterious air, "That depends upon the Russian and Chinese game--the
Persian and Afghan intrigues! You see, I am awaiting some ripening affairs in the F. O. I was
called back on account of my familiarity with the Pamirs, and there's a good bit of Blue Book
work that my knowledge of Penj Deh, and the whole Himalayan line has helped out." The captain
was a bit agnostic now.

"You were---" began Anson Anstruther, timidly, the old vague gossip returning to haunt him.
His ardor was cooling in view of the very neat sum of his losses in three figures.

"On Major Montgomerie's escort as a raw boy when I came out," promptly interrupted Hawke. "I
went all over Thibet in '75 with Nana Singh as a youngster. He was a wonderful chap and besides
executing the secret survey of Thibet, he ran all over Cashmere, Nepaul, Sikkim, and Bhootan,
secretly charged with securing authentic details of the death of Nana Sahib." The cool assurance
of the adventurer disarmed the now serious Anstruther, for both the sagacious English officer
and his disguised assistant, Nana Singh, were both dead these many years. "Morley's is my regular
address; I keep up no home club memberships now," coolly said Hawke, as at last they threw
the cards down.

Anstruther picked up his marker card as he glanced at Hawke's ready money upon the table. There
was a ten-pound note folded under the Major's neat pocket case and a plethoric fold of Bank
of England notes bulged the neat Russia leather. He never knew that only thirteen one-pound
notes made up this brave financial show of his adversary. Alan Hawke was a past master of keeping
up a brave exterior and he blessed the Cook's Tourists who had that day left these small bills
with the hotel cashier.

"Now, here you are," hastily said Anstruther. "Do you make the same total as I do?" The spoiled
patrician boy carelessly shoved out sixty pounds in notes and rummaging over his portmanteau
produced a check book. "There, I think that's right. Check on Grindlay, 11 and 12 Parliament
Street, for four hundred and twenty-eight." Hawke bowed gravely with the air of a satisfied
duelist, and then carelessly swept the check and notes into his breast pocket.

"Tell me, what sort of a girl is this Nadine Johnstone," the wanderer said, by way of a diversion.

"I can't tell you! Only old General Willoughby has pierced the veil. Of course, Johnstone could
not refuse a visit from the Commander of Her Majesty's forces. In fact, Harry Hardwicke, of
the Engineers, accompanied Willoughby. The old chief treats Hardwicke as a son since he bore
the body of the dear old fellow's son out of fire in the Khyber Pass, and won a promotion and
the V. C. Harry says the girl is a modern Noor-Mahal! But, she is as speechless and timid as
a startled fawn! Now, Major, you will excuse me. I have to leave you!" There was a fretful
haste in the passionate boy's manner. The hour was already near midnight.

"Shall I not see you to-morrow?" politely resumed Hawke. "You will not spend your whole morning
with the stern damsel in spectacles and steel-like armor of indurated poplin?"

"Do you know I'm afraid I shall miss you," earnestly said the aide. "Hugh Johnstone wishes
me to urge Mademoiselle Euphrosyne to allow her sister to remain in India, in charge of the
Rose of Delhi until the old eccentric returns. Of course, the girl left alone would be an easy
prey to every fortune hunter in India, should anything happen!" There was a ferocious, wild
gleam in Alan Hawke's eyes as the aide grasped his hat and stick. "I wish to probe the family
records and find out what I can of the 'distaff side of the line,' as Mr. Guy Livingstone would
say. I have some really valuable presents, and I am on honor to the Viceroy in this, for, of
course, a baronetcy must not be given into sullied hands. Johnstone will probably hermetically
seal the girl up till the Kaisar-I-Hind has spoken officially. Then, if this delicate matter
of the hidden booty of the King of Oude is settled, the old fellow intends to return to the
home place he has bought. I'm told it's the finest old feudal remnant in the Channel Islands,
and magnificently modernized. The government does not want to press him. You see they can't!
The things went out of the hands of the hostile traitor princes, and Hugh Fraser, as he was,
cajoled them from the custody of the go-betweens. We have never gone back on the plighted word
of a previous Governor-General! The Queen's word must not be broken. I have a bit of persuading
to do, and some other little matters to settle!"

"Well, then, Anstruther, we may meet again on the line of the Indus," said Hawke, with his
lofty air. "I have always preferred the secret service to mere routine campaigning, for, really,
the waiting spoils the fighting! Poor Louis Cavagnari! He confirmed my taste for silent and
outside work! I was sent out from Cabul by him as private messenger just before that cruel
massacre, a faux pas, which I vainly predicted. He taught me to play ecarte, by the way!"

"Then he was a good teacher, and you--a devilish apt scholar!" laughed Anstruther, as he politely
held the door open for the man who had coldly fleeced him.

Alan Hawke's pulses were now bounding with the thrill of his unlooked-for harvest! He experienced
a certain pride in his marvelous skill, and, restraining himself, he soberly paced along the
corridor. The excited aid-de-camp stood for a moment with his foot on the stair, and then slowly
descended. "He suspects nothing!" the amatory youth murmured, as he passed out upon the broad
Quai du Leman.

He walked swiftly along, gayly whistling "Donna e Mobile," with certain private variations
of his own, until he reached the splendid monument erected to the miserly old Duke of Brunswick,
who showered his scraped-up millions upon an alien city, to spite his own fat-witted Brunswickers,
and so escaped the blood-fleshed talons of the hungry-Prussian eagle.

Duke Charles I hovered amiably in the air, over a comfortable carriage wherein the "other little
matters" were most temptingly materialized in the person of a lovely woman waiting there with
burning eyes, her splendid face veiled in a black Spanish lace scarf. It was the old fate--"Unlucky
at cards, lucky in love!" The staff officer's abrupt command to "drive everywhere, anywhere,"
until "further orders," was implicitly obeyed by the stolid cabby, who set off at once for
a long round of the mild "lions" of fair Geneva, nestling there by the shimmering lake.

The click of the horses' feet upon the deserted roadway kept time to the murmurs of a most
coy Delilah, who molded as wax in her slender hands the ardent military Samson, who was all
unmindful of his flowing locks! And the silent moon shimmered down upon the waste of waters!

Alan Hawke was seated for an hour alone in his room, enjoying the cigars offered up by the
"Universal Provider," who had yielded up so liberally. The strong brandy and soda had at last
restored his shaken nerves, for he had played with his life staked upon the outcome! He then
grimly counted up his winnings. "Four-hundred and eighty-eight good pounds! That will take
me back to Delhi in very good shape," he soliloquized. "I wonder if there is anyway to get
at that girl? If I mistake not, she will have a half a million! The old Commissioner always
liked me, too. By God! If I could only get in between him and this baronetcy I might creep
in on the girl's friendship! But the old curmudgeon keeps her locked up! Rather risky in India!"
He leaned back, enjoying memories of the women with pulses of flame and hearts of glowing coal
whom he had met in the days when he was "dead square." This strange woman! Who is she? What
does she know?

He dozed off until the clattering return of the Misses Phemie and Genie Forbes, of Chicago,
aroused him. His broad grin accentuated the easily overheard strident remark: "Say, Genie,
I wish we had had those two English Lords at our opera supper. They are just jim-dandies, that's
what!"

"As long as the world is full of such fools, I can afford to live," he pleasantly remarked,
as he turned in. A new campaign was opening to him. Far away, up the shores of the moon-transfigured
lake, a hot-headed young fool was showering kisses on the hand of a woman, who sweetly said:
"Remember my conditions! Prove yourself my friend, and I will meet you in Paris! Now, take
me home." Samson was shorn of his locks, and the delighted Alan Hawke found a little note slipped
under his door in the morning.

CHAPTER II. AN OFFENSIVE AND DEFENSIVE ALLIANCE.

When the now buoyant Major Alan Hawke was awakened by the golden lances of morning which shivered
gayly upon the Pennine Alps he proceeded to a most leisurely toilet, having first satisfied
himself that his winnings of the night before were not the baseless fabric of a dream. He smiled
as he fingered the crisp, clean notes, and gazed lovingly upon the dingy-looking but potent
check drawn on the old army bankers.

"No nonsense about that signature," he cheerfully said. "Anstruther is no welsher," and, as
he rang for his hot water and a morning refresher, he picked up the little note with an eager
curiosity.

"By Gad! she is a cool one! This is no vulgar darned occasion! I need all my wits to-day!"
He was studying over the brief words when the ready waiter took his order for a cosy breakfast.
He had deliberately moved out all his lines to an easy comfort, throwing out a line of pickets
against any appearance of social shabbiness. "She said that she had money," he murmured, as
he read the note again. "What the devil does she want, then, if she has all the money she needs!
Perhaps some discarded mistress! Bah! The old man's heart is as hollow as a sentrybox, and,
besides, he has not been in Europe for nearly twenty years. Ah, I see! Perhaps a bit of blackmail--some
early indiscretion! She did speak about the girl! Then I must be the silent partner of her
future harvest! She probably needs a man's arm to reach the wary old Baronet in future. My
lady writes in no uncertain tone."

He carefully folded the note and bestowed it safely with the spoil of the young patrician.
"Of course I must show up," he said as he betook himself to his tub whence he emerged shapely
as an Adonis with the corded torso of an athlete. The appetizing breakfast put the Major in
excellent humor, and he drew forth his "sailing orders" as he lit his first cheroot. Seated
in a window recess, he watched the hotel frontage, while he read the imperative lines again.
They were explicit enough and had been dictated en reine. "Meet me at the Musee Rath, in the
vestibule at two o'clock. He leaves here at one-thirty. Keep away from the hotel and avoid
us both. Go up to Ferney and come back on the one o'clock boat."

There was a neat carte de visite in the inclosure.

"Now, I will wager that is not her name," he smiled as he read the Italian script.

"I can certainly now afford to throw a day or so away on her. At any rate, I will let her make
the game. I must wait a day or so to send on the Grindlay check," the wanderer mused, smiling
genially upon the head porter. Major Alan Hawke casually inquired, upon his leisurely descent,
"My friend?"

"Ah, sir! Paid his bill and left. Luggage already sent to the station labeled 'Paris.'" Alan
Hawke most liberally tipped the functionary. "I think I will take a run of a few days up to
Lausanne or Chillon myself; the weather is delightful." He strolled over to the local Cook's
Agency and sent his treasure-trove check on to London for collection.

"I think that I will fight shy of this sleepy burgh," he ruminated, as the little paddle-wheel
steamer sped along toward Ferney, leaving behind a huge triangular wake carved in the pellucid
waters. "It might be devilish awkward if Anstruther should find me here, hovering around his
fair enslaver. I may need this golden youth again, in the days to come! He will be out of India
for a couple of years, but I will not trust Fate blindly. What the old Harry can she be up
to?" He suddenly burst into a merry peal of laughter, to the astonishment of the crowd of passengers.

"Fool that I am! I see it all now! Anstruther cleared out early! The proprieties of the home
of Calvin must be respected! After he has adroitly pumped the intellectual fountain of the
past dry, then a quiet little breakfast tete et tete will give Madame Louison the time to fool
him to the top of his bent! The sly minx! Evidently she is cast for the 'ingenue' part in this
little social drama! And her trump card is to hide from me what she extracts from our Lovelace
by the coy use of those deuced fetching brown eyes and--other charms too numerous to mention!
But you shall tell me all yet, Miss Sly Boots!" And the Major dreamed pleasant day dreams.

Life now seemed so different to the hopeful vaurien, with the physical and moral backing of
the four hundred and odd pounds! "I was a fool--a damned fool, yesterday," he cheerfully ruminated.
"If I only handle this woman rightly, then I may get the hold I want on this old recluse Johnstone,
congested with the fat pickings of forty-five years. A close-mouthed old rat is he, and yet
it seems that he is vulnerable after all. If he is playing fast and loose with the government
he will never get his honors before he gives up the sleeping trust of the forgotten years."

Major Hawke vainly tried to follow the exuberant Anstruther in his incursion into the placid
temple of Minerva, where that watchful spinster, Miss Euphrosyne Delande, eyed somewhat icily
the handsome. young "Greek bearing gifts." Professional prudence and the memory of certain
judiciously smothered escapades caused Miss Euphrosyne at first to retire within her moral
breast works and draw up the sally-port bridge. For even in chilly Geneva, young hearts throb
in nature's flooding lava passions, jealously bodiced in school-girl buckram and glacial swiss
muslin. So it was very cool for a time in the august cavern of conference where Anson Anstruther,
a bright Ithuriel, struggled with the cautious and covetous Swiss preceptress, and the swift
steamer Chilian was far up the lake before Captain the victorious Honorable Anson Anstruther,
sped away to the morning meeting with the woman who had seemed to lean down from the moon-lit
skies upon her young Endymion in that starry night by the throbbing lake.

Major Alan Hawke, proceeding on his voyage, found a certain bitterness in the distant mental
contemplation of Captain Anstruther's employment of his leisure till train time, not knowing
that the young soldier's sense of duty led him first to dispatch several careful official dispatches,
one to London, and the two others to Calcutta and Delhi, respectively. When Captain Anstruther
finally deposited his mail with the head porter of the Grand Hotel National he deftly questioned
that functionary. "My friend--Major Hawke?"

"Gone up the lake for two or three days, sir. Going to Lausanne and Chillon. Keeps all his
luggage here, though. Shall I give him any message for you?" With a view to artfully veiling
his coming meeting with the beautiful Egeria a la Houbigant, the captain deposited a card marked
"P. P. C."

"A devilish pleasant fellow and a right stunning hand at ecarte." Anstruther prudently walked
for a couple of squares, and then hailed a passing voiture, directing him to the very cosiest
restaurant in the snug city of Bonnivard.

Major Hawke, far away now, entertained a slight resentment toward the man who had so coolly
aspired to les bonnes fortunes, and ignored his own possible interference with the Lady of
the Lake. It was with a grim satisfaction, however, that he saw on the boat the Misses Phenie
and Genie Forbes, of Chicago, the bright particular stars of the traveling upper tendom. "Popper"
and "Mommer" were deep in certain red-bound Baedeker's and busied in delving for "historic
facts," while the artful Alan Hawke glided into a fast and familiar flirtation with the two
bright-eyed, sharp-voiced damsels. Both the heiresses were dressed as if for a reception, with
judiciously selected jewelry samples, evidencing the wondrous success of machine conducted
pig demolition. They glittered in the sun as Fortune's bediamonded favorites.

And, so, while Madame Berthe Louison and Captain Anstruther lingered au cabinet particulier,
over their Chablis and Ostend oysters, the recouped gambler extended his store of mental acquirement,
by tender converse with the two sprightly belles of the Windy City. In fact, the whistle of
the steamer was heard long before Alan Hawke could extricate himself from the clinging tentacles
of the audacious beauties. He was somewhat repaid for his social exertions, however, as he
sped back to keep his tryst at Geneva, by the acquisition of a large steel-engraved business
card inscribed, "Forbes, Haygood & Co., Chicago," loftily tendered him by "Popper." He smiled
at the whispered assurances of the Misses Phenie and Genie that they "should soon meet again."

"Bring your friend--that other Lord," cried the departing Miss Genie, waving a thousand-franc
lace fan, as she sagely observed, "Two's company--three's none. We'll have a jolly lark--us
four. Don't forget, now!" The polite Major laid his hand upon his heart and played the amiable
tiger, although burning inwardly now, in a fierce personal jealousy of Anstruther as he wandered
alone around the cold gray halls of the museum, and gazed upon the pinched features of the
permanently eclipsed shining lights of the "Bulwark of Civil and Religious Liberty." There
was no charm for him in the bigoted ferocity of Calvin's lean, dark face, smacking his thin
lips over the roasted Servetus. He abhorred the departed heroes of the golden evolution from
Eidegenossen into Higuerios and later Huguenots. They interested him not, neither did he love
Professor Calame's scratchy pictures, nor the jumbled bric-a-brac of art and history. None
of these charmed him. He waited only for the gliding step, the clasp of a burning hand, and
the flash of the lustrous dark-brown eyes. It was his own innings now.

He had referred to his watch for the fiftieth time, when, from a closed carriage, the object
of his mental vituperations gracefully alighted at last. It was with the very coldest of bows
that the irritated man received the graceful, self-possessed woman, whose lovely face was but
partially hidden by her coquettishly dotted veil.

"She dresses like a Parisienne, walks like an Andalu-sian, and has all the seductiveness of
a Polish countess!" the quick-witted rascal thought, as they strolled into the museum, which
the departed General Rath knew not would be the scene of many a hidden love intrigue, when
he endowed it with a benevolent vanity. The two wary strangers strolled along until they found
a retired corner. Madame Louison seated herself, waving her lace parasol with the impatient
gesture of one accustomed to command.

Alan Hawke was in no gentle humor, and his cheeks reddened as he felt the calm scrutiny of
the woman's searching glances. He was now determined to take the whip hand, and to keep it.
His accents were staccato as he said, "Tell me now who you are, and what you wish of me!" A
clock, hung high over them on the dreary, drab walls, ticked away brusquely, as the angered
woman gazed steadily into his face.

"And so your little windfall of last night has already made you impudent? If you cannot find
another tone at once, I will find another agent! The man whom you plucked has told me the story
of your wonderful skill at cards!" The sneer cut the renegade like a whip lash, and Alan Hawke
sprang up in anger. Madame Berthe Louison coolly settled herself down into the red cushions.

"The way to India is before you, but five hundred pounds is not a fortune for Major Alan Hawke!
Listen! I watched you carefully yesterday, in your vigil upon Rousseau's Island. Your telltale
face betrayed you. You were left stranded here in Geneva. An accident has brought us together.
You cannot divine my motives. I can fathom yours easily. Tell me now, of yourself, of your
past in India--of your present standing there. If you are frank, I may contribute to your fortune;
if not--our ways part here!"

"And, if I warn Anson Anstruther that you are a mere adventuress, if I notify my old friend
Hugh Fraser (soon to be Sir Hugh Johnstone), then your little game will be spoiled, Madame
Louison!" defiantly said Hawke. The woman leaned back and laughed merrily in his face.

"You are like all professional lady killers, a mere fool in the hands of the first woman of
wit. I dare you to cross my path! I will then join Captain the Honorable Anson Anstruther,
in Paris, at the Hotel Binda! I will also see that you are excluded from every club in India!
Your occupation will be gone, my Knight of Ecarte. Anstruther waits for me." She tossed him
a card. "See for yourself. He was kind enough at breakfast, and, he will help me, if I ask him."

"And why do you not fly to his arms?" sneered Alan Hawke, who had quickly resigned the bullying
tone of his abordage.

"Because he is a nice boy and a gentleman," the woman said, with a cutting emphasis. "Now,
let me read you, Monsieur le Major, a lesson in manners. Never be rough with a woman! That
is the road which always leads on to failure. I wish you a good appetite for your breakfast,
which I have delayed, and for which I beg your pardon!" She rose and swept along with her Juno
strides, and had reached the second Hall of Antiquities before Alan Hawke overtook her. It
had flashed across his mind that he had for once in his life met a woman who was not afraid
of the future, whatever had been her past. A single malicious letter from Anstruther would
ruin him in India, for there was an ominous cloud, no bigger than a man's hand, lingering in
that hiatus between his old rank of Lieutenant of Bengal Artillery, and the shadowy tenure
of his self-dubbed Majority. This Aspasia hid none of her methods. She had boldly captivated
the passing Pericles, and, evidently, she was the desired one.

"Let me explain," he began, as the woman looked calmly into his face.

"We are only losing time, Major," Madame Louison remarked, as she sought a corner. "I see that
you have already repented. Do you know any one in Geneva?"

"Not one of the seventy-five thousand here," frankly answered Hawke. "The only man I came here
to see, the English Consul, is away on leave."

