While I was away I learned a secret that is worth a good deal of money to any young man intending
marriage, and that would have been without price to me if I had known it thirty years ago--before
I knew the estimable woman, who, in company, insists that I am her better-half, and in private
treats me as if I were hardly a sixteenth. I learned it at sea. Just before we sailed out of
a port one afternoon a couple came down to the wharf, which consisted of a very large and fine-looking
young woman and very small young man, who carried himself with much meekness. Why will little
men marry big women? They looked like they had not been long married. When they came on board
she was the captain and he ranked about cook. When they got off, forty-eight hours after, he
ranked as admiral and she ranked about a hand before the mast. When they got on board, she
called him William, and he called her "Maria dear." When they got off she called him "Willie
dear," and he called her plain "Maria." When they came to supper she was the man of the two--two
hours after, she was laid out on the deck benches, vowing every minute that she would die.
From that moment he commenced advancing in rank. He was not subject to seasickness, and walked
the plunging deck like a bantam rooster. In a firm voice he ordered her to her state-room,
where she remained till the evening of the next day. She came out a changed woman. She evidently
viewed "Willie dear" as a superior being, whom the sea itself couldn't conquer, and whose attentions
to her in her sickness--which I am bound to add were kind and unremitting--were such as such
beings bestow in charity on mortals made of humbler stuff. She came out of her stateroom the
next evening as limp as a rag, and clinging to the little bantam as if letting go would be
sure death. Seasickness had completely changed the manner and carriage of the two people. I
could not help wondering if the bantam saw his advantage as I saw it, and whether, now that
he had her down, he would keep her down? It struck me, while looking at them, that every man,
sure of his sea legs, should early in his married life, take his wife to sea. It may give him
a lifetime of peaceful rest.

       *       *       *       *       *

Still speaking of the sea; for I am too far from shore now to turn back, we had one day of
it in which was painfully illustrated the line, "Water, water everywhere, and not a drop to
drink." The steward, having been changed from his own ship to ours without notice, had not
laid in his wines and liquors for the voyage. It was awful news when it was announced after
getting out to sea, and paled many a cheek. Much to our surprise, however, all the next morning
one of the passengers appeared in a state of exhilaration not to be accounted for by anything
we had seen on the table. Later, he appeared still worse, and as he did not appear at dinner,
we concluded that he was drinking to excess in his room. A passenger said indignantly that
"the man was killing himself," and volunteered to go in and see about him. About dark, that
day, the volunteer made his appearance on deck. After some uncertain steps he managed to seat
himself on a coil of rope. Looking at us with a look of solemn philanthropy in his face, he
announced thickly, that "I got t'way from'm at last." It was very clear that he had.

       *       *       *       *       *

Do you know that I never travel the sea that I am not pervaded by an antagonistic and contradictory
frame of mind that sets itself against all the popular and religious ideas of it. The ocean
impresses me with neither the majesty nor the power of God. Indeed, it does not impress me
with God at all, but to the contrary, gives me a sort of undefined, painful unbelief. To me,
somehow, there is no other side of the ocean. And looking out on its boundless space, covered
with the blue vault lighted by millions of worlds and floating over, to me, bottomless waters,
I feel so lost in space, such an infinitesimal atom, that the doctrine of the sparrow that
falls seems a chimera, and a God inconceivable. I wonder if this is not so with others. I wonder
if all of us do not shrink from this immensity and take refuge in our own hearts where alone
we can hear the voice of God, and where, at any hour or in any scene, we can find an instant
answer to all our doubts. There is but one spot on the ocean that leads me to a sort of a fanciful
realization of a future life. It is that red one made by the setting sun, especially if we
be off shore, and the birds are flying landward. The roseate bridge thrown across the water,
swinging with the waves, the intense and silver bright-ness of the centre of the arc framed
in the evening clouds that roll around it, and the gleaming wings of the birds, as they flash
across the disc and disappear in the shining centre on their way homeward, somehow bring to
my mind the gates ajar and the souls flying from earth to their final rest. There may be beautiful
pictures to come after this life; if there are, sunset at sea is as near as our mortal minds
can yet come to them.

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN VI

Well, we have gotten you into a new year! Life and Fate and Time, all have managed to get you
here. With many of you they had a hard pull to get you here. Some of you have been near to
death; some of you so miserable you hardly wanted to try another year here, and the majority
of you have shown the least interest about getting here. I don't reproach you; you are only
following the perverse example of Human Nature. Did it ever strike you that the globe and the
people who live on its surface, are always marching different ways? While all the restless
tide of humanity moves to the West, the globe turns itself to the East. On its surface, Man
is much like the acrobat we see at the theatres, who, mounted on his parti-colored ball, faces
one way while it moves the other. It must be a queer spectacle to those who, from the planetary
dress circle of the universe, are watching us through their opera glasses. It must be still
queerer to them when they hear us chanting a Miserere at the approach of an invincible line
across the face of Time, as imaginary as the Equator, and when it is passed, filling the air
with a Jubilate--the songs of the dying and the coming year. It is rather a comfort to us that
we don't believe in the dress circle of gazers; that we have the comfortable belief that we
are the only people in the Universe, and that beyond the questionable discovery of a canal
across one of the planets, the wisest of astronomers have found no evidence of human life elsewhere.
And so, with a Crusoe-like sense of solitude, we live on our traditions, on our religions,
and on our ideas of Man to the exclusion of the rest of the Universe.

With an impartial judgment, therefore, and not influenced by the approval or disapproval of
this vast dress circle, in whose existence we have no faith, let us take up these imaginary
lines for a moment. It is unquestionable that, whether for good or evil, they have descended
to us by tradition and custom as a legacy. They are sufficiently real to be of practical use,
and they are used. It is by them that we set a time--alas, that we should have the necessity
of doing it--to discard some vice, some sin, some weakness. We use them in the interest of
procrastination--that we may put off the parting day with something our conscience, or our
taste, or both, disapprove. By them we appoint a time when we shall say to the divine spark
within our breasts, you may flame out into our daily life. By them we give a respite which
alas, often ends in a commutation of sentence and oftener still in a full pardon and restoration
to peace.

So, you see, I do not think a great deal of old year remorse or New Year resolutions. I think
they are just that much better than none at all, and this has to be qualified by the damage
they do in having us put off reformation. That a man should fix a day to reform in this or
that particular, is at least an evidence that he is aware of his need of it--a great point
gained. These years are but little stepping-stones across the narrow brook of Time that pours
into the vast ocean of Eternity, and it is a good sign when a man approaches the next, and
the next, and the next with increasing reverence and sense of the responsibility of his progress.
It is a good sign when a man begins to discover in the impediments of life, what is necessary
and what is absolutely hurtful to him in the journey of life, and when, with the discovery,
he summons up enough resolution to fix a day to throw away the bad. It is hard for the best
of us to get our load rightly picked over. When we have failed to start right in youth, it
is unspeakably hard after getting out into the dust and glare of the world to assort our burden
over, and drop what ill elements we have gathered on the road. That a man should fix a time
to do this is itself a good thing and just that far these imaginary lines are good.

But something far better, far manlier, is to have the firmness to draw our own lines at our
own times. It is so peculiarly a personal matter that we can well afford to let the World have
its lines and we have our own. If you agree with me, then your own line is drawn at To-day
and Every Day. If a man cannot enter on a new life every day, he can unquestionably enter on
at least a newer life every day. It must be a barren and unfruitful mind to which something--good
or evil--is not added every day, to make it that much newer. You know this yourself. You have
seen healthy, pure-minded boys start out in life and you have met them later with minds so
darned with vice here, and patched with sin there, that you hardly recognized them. That transformation
was not done in a day. You have seen boys that you knew at school without a bad habit, and
when you met them again they had added to their lives drinking, gambling, everything this side
of a police court. That was not done in a day. We do nothing in a day--not even reform in a
day. All good and evil is a matter of ascent and descent-the latter only the faster because
the grade is easier. It is not an easy experiment in the world to be a good man. No man ever
fixed a day to become a good one. It is an uphill road, a long road, and one who proposes to
walk it must fix no later hour than now lest night-fall find him far from the end of it.

But the young man who determines to walk it in this day, has a far easier road than he would
have had thirty years ago. It is the fashion to say that the road grows no better. It is not
true; the world's opinion grows better every day. There were many things respectable thirty
years ago that are absolutely disreputable now. Then, a middle-aged man might drink at a bar
with a boy of twenty. If he did it to-day he would be marked at once. Then, drinking and gambling
were looked upon as the wild oats a young man might sow, without losing caste. To-day, the
young man who drinks and gambles is looked upon as of doubtful social position, by both men
and women. To-day, in making their lists of invitations, leaders in society cross out the names
of dissipated young men as promptly as they do those of fast young women. Whereas thirty years
ago there was rather a mantle of sentimental charity fitted on the shoulders of a disreputable
young fellow, to-day he is roughly talked of as a "drunkard" or a "common fellow"; terms that
no one dreamed of applying to him then. There has been nothing that public opinion, especially
that section of it that may be called social opinion, has changed in more than in the standard
it fixes for, and demands from, all men, and particularly young men. The result is that when
a man wants to be superior to vice now, he has the moral weight of a sounder public opinion
and finds the road easier than he would have had thirty years ago.

I have said nothing to you about any higher inducement to commence a better life every day,
than those you can find in the world. They are quite sufficient, or ought to be. A healthy
body, a clear mind, success in the world--these are the rewards which a good life offers here.
There is just one other word about what it offers elsewhere. I am not a preacher, you need
not be afraid of a sermon. I am just one of yourselves; only I have come over a longer road
than you have, and have seen more of its pitfalls as well as more of its sign-boards. Nor do
I pretend to know more than you of what it offers elsewhere. But I just wish to say one word
to recall what you already know; what you must know. There is nothing that we all know better--nothing
that is more surely planted in the human mind than that this is only a part of our life; that
when we shall reach a future existence, we shall there find a life awaiting us which will match
with the piece we carry from this one. It is a very grave thought--graver than any which we
shall consider on earth, if we are intelligent men--which the match will be--whether it will
be found in one of infinite misery or one of infinite betterment. Here we have the power to
say which it shall be. It is a priceless power. Let us use it, not in fixing days for reformation,
not in lamenting over promises of reforms broken, and fixing other days to come; but in living
a newer life every day--As we can make no bargain nor compromise about the time and place where
our life shall end, let us take the matter into our own hands and so live that it will matter
little when or where the end comes.

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN VII

I sometimes come to the conclusion that it is in Winter that a Philosopher has his several
trials. That is, of course, a married Philosopher. For of the other sort I take no account,
seeing that with their mode of life they have little need of Philosophy, unless, indeed, it
be esteemed so lowly a remedy as to be put at the beck and call of men for evils they invite
to themselves. Philosophy I hold to be a Patent Medicine of the higher sort, which is to be
taken only for those afflictions brought us by others, and by which we are enabled to assuage
our own misery through inspecting from an elevated plane the folly, or extravagance, or weakness
of those who have afflicted us. It is a mental jack-screw by which we wind ourselves up to
a height from which we can look down on lacks in others. To lose sight of our own pain after
shooting down a flight of steps, in grave pitying contemplation of the stupidity of the chambermaid
who left the bar of soap on the first step--that is your true Philosophy. And the man who forgets
to rub his back, through pitying her ignorance, is the true philosopher. It is a quality from
the gods, and whether exhibited over the minor calamity of soap, or the graver distress to
which the married Philosopher too often falls heir, shows its origin in a heavenly calm. To
him, I think I have said, this calm has its severe trial in the winter; but now that I think
of it again, if I were writing this in the summer, I should say that season was the severest.
Indeed, thinking of it still further, I am puzzled to decide on any season that does not bring
to him the severest trials of his heavenly serenity. The other night Mrs. Boyzy, as she slipped
one of the little stockings off the wooden ball, which has served our children for so many
years and so many purposes--from filling out a croquet set, to the braining of their parents--her
kindly, and to me still beautiful face, lighting up with a smile, said: "We are having a real
gay winter in Staunton, dear." Alas, I knew it well, Between High Teas and Blue Teas, and Ladies'
Lunches and Bands of Twenties, I knew it well. I knew it from the number of times that I have
had to steal in like a thief in the night, at my own side gate and make my way into a cold
set-out in the nursery, while a High Tea was progressing down stairs accompanied by the hum
of feminine voices. I knew it from the cold nights I have had to carry our eldest daughter
to her club, with the dreary reflection that it was to be still colder later, when young Jones
or young Tompkins would have to bring her home; and when Mrs. Boyzy would wake me from my slumber
and in dressing gown and slippers I would shiver behind the front door till young Jones and
she, after much low murmuring, would separate, and the light of the family would consent to
come inside. I knew it. I always know it, 'being a victim of dyspepsia--from the bonbons and
other gim-cracks which are served out at my family table after these lunches and teas, and
which are persistently served out until, as my wife calls it, they are "finished." Had I not
that very evening had served to me a piece of fruit-cake made, I believe, when our eldest girl
was in short dresses! I knew it from the short party calls which have rattled like bird-shot
against the Boyzy mansion, to the utter wreck of my quiet evenings with Mrs. Boyzy--a woman
that I had much rather talk to than all the callers in the world. And all this that I knew
so well, was put by that estimable woman under the head of a "real gay winter." Before I could
apply the elevating mental jack-screw that raises me above all earthly troubles, I could not
help feeling that the inquiry was pretty much like asking a scrambling lobster boiling in the
pot, if he was not having a real gay evening? I am afraid I mentioned--some such impression
to my wife, for I was soon astonished by finding that I was instrumental in the whole business.
"But, my dear," she replied, "we have to do it. Every one does it." We! I was astonished to
find that instead of being a victim I had been an accessory, perhaps the chief criminal, in
bringing it about. A few questions from the ever-ready partner of my joys soon convinced me
that if I had not been a great criminal, it was only through lack of time and opportunity.
Did I have any idea of what was due to the position of my family in society? What would become
of our children's "prospects"? What sort of life would my family lead--and here the severe
inflection of her voice convinced my crime-stricken conscience that nothing but a miracle--and
Mrs. Boyzy--could have saved my family from utter social destruction if I had been allowed
to have my way. Happily, by this time, Philosophy had come to my aid, and looking through its
beautifying and mellowing mist, all was changed. The teas and the lunches and the clubs appeared
in the brightest tints; the shivering waits behind the front door changed into evening strolls
into tropical gardens; the gray sprinkled hair of my wife changed into the sunny auburn of
her youth, and she once more stood in the little church of our old home listening to the words,
"For better or for worse." Happy the married Philosopher who wears around his neck with an
even temper and an understanding mind, this talisman of happiness devised by far-seeing men
of other days--"For better or for worse." Man cannot harm him nor Womankind disappoint him.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have been sitting up by the bedside of a dying Adjective. It was not through pity that I
sat there, but through hate. For I detest an Adjective. It is the father of lies, the author
of affectation and the progenitor of all exaggeration. They should be remitted to limbo with
all the other crudities of youth. I have listened to the point of exasperation, through an
evening, to the absurd use of adjectives by young girls of education and with some claims to
good taste. Somehow it sometimes comes to me, that this use of adjectives is the besetting
sin of the female conversationalists of this day. Some young fellows unsex themselves so far
as to follow the bad example, but the majority of that sex substitute oaths for adjectives,
which is a social habit on too low a plane for criticism here. But on all sides in the social
conversation of the young people of this day, it seems to be agreed to give good, plain, strong
English the go-by and to indulge in the embroidery of adjectives. Tawdry adjectives such as
'beautiful', 'lovely,' 'horrid', 'awful', and the like worn tinsel. I suppose I might venture
the assertion without fear of contradiction, that this is the stock in trade in most young
girls in qualifying their conversation. The use of that tinsel gives a wholly unreal tone to
what is being said and is so pregnant with affectation as to be tiresome. Between slang and
adjectives, it is hard to choose, both are so detestable from a woman's lips. The difference
is that the adjective insidiously captures the refined mind, while slang only holds captive
the coarse mind. In a plain and intended to be truthful statement of any occurrence, the injection
of three or four adjectives will change the whole tenor of narration, and give it a vraisemblance
of untruth which it is hard for the hearer's mind to erase. As a matter of fact, an adjective
ought to be a thought, not a word. A fact should be stated without embroidery, and we should
think whether it is beautiful, lovely, and the like. There are many thoughts in the human mind
that are not translatable into words. They may have been in some other language long gone,
but they are not so in ours. As those words have gone into oblivion, so should the majority
of our English adjectives follow them. I have forgotten to tell the patient I have been sitting
up with. It is the adjective 'tasty.' Years ago Mrs. Boyzy set her foot down on this word,
and as in duty bound, I also set my foot down. Whether our two feet have stamped the unhappy
adjective out, or from some other cause that I know not of, its end has certainly come. As
in all fierce popular outbreaks against long existing oppression, the weakest and most insignificant
of the oppressors are often the first to fall, so this unexaggerative, unaggressive, ill-sounding
little adjective is the first to die. Let us hope that an early day be appointed unto the others
to follow it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Have you ever watched a man going down? It is an interesting study, and a unique one, for the
reason that no other animal has language by which to express the various stages at which he
arrives before dropping out of the Procession of Life. Nor has any animal so many contrivances
with which to dodge and play at hide and seek with Death. The earthly affection which abides
in man, seems to overmaster all the other emotions--faith, hope, everything,--and he who firmly
believes in a future existence is found as frantic in his efforts to delay its coming, as the
veriest agnostic. Then faith seems to be a theological treasure of this earth, rather than
a treasure of the future. The man with no tie to bind his soul to this planet is as reluctant
to leave it as he who has the strongest ties of friendship, love and fatherhood. All mankind
seem to have that dread of it which their children have of being put in a dark closet. But
I am not going to investigate the mysterious dread of death, or the even more mysterious attachment
to life. I am merely recalling to my memory men whom I have seen stagger awhile and then fall
out of the line of life. There is no more pathetic sight to me, than a man when he first finds
that he is failing. Like a child, he cannot understand it. This strange feeling that he has
never had before; that pain that must come from this or that--they are all so new to him. He
cannot realize that he is failing, and least of all can he realize the dread truth that it
is time for him to fail. To a man's own mind he is always at that mythical stage, his "prime,"
as long as health lasts. It is piteous to hear his excuses for his failing body--it was this
imprudence, it was that cold, it was too much or too little exercise--he cannot understand
that it is the herald of the Messenger, and that a little way off through the mist he might
see the Messenger himself holding the Lotus flower in his hand. It is more piteous still to
see him, like a captured animal, seeking some way of escape through the bars. He must get a
horse--it is only exercise he wants; he must have a longer vacation--it is only rest he wants;
he must have more society--it is only recreation he needs; he must have less society--it is
only quiet he requires. His blindness is inexplicable. He will walk in a garden and point out
to you a tree that cannot last longer than such a time; he will point to a worn-out beast of
burden that must die at such a time; he knows the death date of everything that springs from
earth except himself. In his blind hope he grasps at the worst of straws. No new universal
panacea comes out that he does not seize on it, and that he is not sure, for a little while
is doing him good. At last he weakens in the struggle and is taken to the rear. The procession
of Life moves on; he never joins it again. If all this had happened to only one man, the World
would be in tears. As it happens to all men, the World hardly gives it a thought. But to him,
that One Man is all the world, and it is hard to get his thoughts away from himself. As the
Procession of Life passes on, and the hum of its marching columns grows fainter on his ears,
let us hope that there may come to him that unworldly quiet that Death pityingly sends in advance,
and amid which Hope steals noiselessly away from the bedside to make room for Faith. And in
which he may take the pale flower from the hand of the Messenger, and following him through
the dawn of a new birth, see another Hand, holding out to him the purple amaranth of Eternal Life.

OBSERVATIONS OF RETIRED VETERAN VIII

Rest! Ah, what a delicious word to the sick and wearied man. Rest in mind and body! How unsatisfactory
appear the gaudy pictures of the dreamer of Patmos compared with the simple words of the Master,
"I will give you rest." I can hardly say why I selected Hampton for rest. I knew nobody here,
and had never been here. But somehow I had taken up the impression that it was one of those
old East Virginia towns that had been blown ashore by the tempest of civil war and lay stranded
on the beach of the briny ocean of life. And that was the sort of place that quiet was to be
found in. My first night was a happy confirmation of my choice. Standing on the wharf at which
lay a little steamer, the scene was beautiful. The new moon hung in the west and cast its glittering
line over the water for miles and miles away. Thick in the little harbor lay the slender masts
of vessels with steady lights glowing in their rigging. Across the narrow bay stood the Normal
School with its three stories brightly lighted, and further away was the gigantic Soldiers'
Home with a thousand lights burning. To the east was the long bridge across Hampton creek,
with every few minutes a lighted omnibus or a pair of carnage lamps going leisurely across.
Further yet was a railroad train lighted and flying across the trestle bridge. At the opening
of the little bay were fisher boats, coming in with all sail spread, the loud laughter and
chaffing of the men easily heard at this distance. Turning inland, you see a broad street,
with shade trees on each side casting dark shadows. The lights twinkle its whole length and
at one point there is a bright spot--a pretty, white hotel with a treble deck of verandahs.
That is my home for many days to come and there I am to be at rest. The call of the bugle sounds
on the night air; it is the "taps" at the Soldiers' Home; the salt water is beating with lazy
monotone against the shore; the fisherman have tied up their boats; the last omnibus has crossed
the bridge; the young moon is getting to her bed and I turn my face toward the long street
and the bright hotel. A man of high-toned and poetic mind would here insert something about
his thoughts turning to his mountain home. Alas! mine are turned with eager curiosity to what
my breakfast tomorrow would be, reflecting as I do that I am now in the land, or rather water,
of oysters, soft crabs and fish. After all, of what common clay we are made!

       *       *       *       *       *

The redeeming feature of ill-health, to me, has been that for the last few months I have been
thrown with many invalids and enjoyed their confidence to the fullest, (and sometimes the most,
to some extent). There seems to be a sort of free-masonry among sick people by which they at
once become friendly and familiar. There is, also, if you only knew it, an aristocracy of ill-health;
that is, a man with two complaints stands much higher with his fellow invalids than a man with
one; and a man who has been sick for five years stands immeasurably higher than a mere cadet
who has not been sick six months. Having only a two years' standing, I was forced to bear the
contempt which I received from chronic cases, but I repaid it with interest on some evidently
shoddy invalids, who were trying to work their way into society on an attack of only a few
weeks duration. I remember one case, however, in which our whole aristocratic circle was swept
into insignificance by a little lady, whom I saw after I left Hampton, and who didn't weigh
ninety pounds. She had been an invalid, she said, for fifteen years, and while I do not recollect
precisely her afflictions, it appears to me that she had had chronic trichnia spiralis for
that length of time, with intermittent cerebro spinal meningitis tending towards hydrophobia.
This imposing patient cowed the whole invalid circle. But one man showed the slightest resistance,
and that was old man Smith, who had been very proud of his chronic liver complaint. He told
me in confidence the next day that he believed "the whole story was a ---- ----." It is due
to the company, however, to say that the narration was received with polite expressions of
sympathy and wonder, while there was at the same time a silent conviction that it was of this
complication of diseases that Ananias died. If a lady could rout us, however, it was not permitted
to a man. When another of these aristocratic invalids, one of those "four giant shows under
one canvas," came along, varying in sex from the first mentioned, he was speedily brought to
grief. At supper, the first evening of his arrival, one of our circle having asked him with
incautious politeness "how he was?" the new arrival opened on us with a sonorous discourse
filled with chronic afflictions mixed up with pious reflections. I think he would have established
his claims to high rank had not a consumptive-looking boarder with a haggard face taken advantage
of a pause in the speech, and without looking up from his plate, remarked in a squeaky voice,
"The remainder of the service will be concluded at the grave." The interruption was a bombshell.
I have said that there is a free-masonry among invalids; I might add that it almost amounts
to the old co-operation plan. I have been offered advice without limit and even medicine from
my fellow sufferers. I have also been furnished with a list of their own attending physicians,
all of whom have performed remarkable cures. It is a full and complete list of fifty-eight
physicians in good professional standing, and I will dispose of it at a moderate compensation
to any apothecary or undertaker who desires to purchase.

Where was I? Oh, speaking of invalids! Sickness is to be dreaded with many because of death,
but from the high moral plane from which I regard it, it is chiefly objectionable on account
of the lying it gives rise to. Directly a man gets well on the way down hill, the good natured
world gets this lie photographed, and each man presents him a copy--"Why, I never saw you looking
better in my life!" For the first few copies that are presented him the poor devil is grateful;
of the next few he is suspicious, and thereafter he is worried, vexed and profane. If you remonstrate
against the truth of the assurance and call attention to the prominent skeleton which you are
presenting to the public eye, the good natured liar looks you unflinchingly in the eye while
he presents you with another lithograph bearing this inscription: "Oh, I didn't mean that you
were fatter, I meant that your skin is clearer and your eyes are brighter." Not having a sample
of your former skin, nor another pair of eyes handy to confute him with, this well-meaning
liar walks off triumphantly. I, myself, however, am no better than the rest of them, though
my presenting the lithograph cost me dearly one day. In one of the towns where I stopped, a
young girl came to the hotel the shadow of what she had been. I suppose one evening I must
have felt unusually chipper and kindly myself, for, coming up on the porch where she was sitting,
I dashed off the old lithograph, "Why you are looking so much better." Her eyes--I never saw
eyes that had so much of the other world and so little of this in them--turned on me with a
half kind, half reproachful look, and at once filled with tears. She merely said gently, "Thank
you," and got up and walked away. God forgive me, that I should have interrupted a soul so
near to setting sail, to pay a lithographed and lying compliment. Three weeks later, in another
town, I was told that she had gone on the last long voyage. I have burned my lithographs.

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN IX

At Afton in the Blue Ridge Mountains. There now, sit still, I am not going to commence about
"lifting their eternal heads;" indeed I am not. Did it ever strike you, though, how different
a man talks when he gets a pen in his hand; how impossible it is for a man to keep his feet
on the ground and use a reasonably plain English without absurd adjectives, when he is writing
descriptions of scenery. It is a miserable piece of affectation, you know; and they know you
know, but they do it all the same. It comes, I presume, from a desire to assert the possession
of imagination. The vulgar name for it is "flowery" and I am not certain that it is not a good
name, for the chief business of flowers is to please the senses. You will find it popular with
three classes of orators--commencement orators, political orators, and pulpit orators. The
first use it because they know no better; the second, from the belief that it will catch those
who know no better; and third because they find that a bright coat of paint to a religious
sign post is particularly attractive to the female members of the congregation. With the first
class, it is ignorance; with the second, business, and with the third, a mild, but well defined
form of insincerity. You will find, too, that, with few exceptions, flowery ministers are--little
else. I do not mean a forcibly drawn picture; that is a wholly different thing; I mean gaudy,
flowery word painting. I remember at Trinity church in Staunton once, a description by a minister
named Tucker, of a sacrifice made by the Jews at Jerusalem. Do you know, though that was years
ago, I can see to-day the scene the man drew standing out in memory. It was powerful, but there
was not a particle of prismatic coloring about it. It was a bas-relief cut on granite--full
of power, enduring, and with a touch of eternity about it. Such picture-drawing is not flowery
and does not wither.

I know that the popular subjects of interest in the mountains are sunrise and sunset, but for
something really worth writing about, and much more rare, give me a fog spread out at the feet
like a white carpet. Ah! that is something worth seeing. The valley, a mile below, is hidden
in the gauzy sea, and the tops of mountain spurs here and there peep out like little islands.
The white, silent sea is spread for miles and miles. Underneath it is life, an invisible wagon
rumbles, a horse neighs, a man calls to his neighbor, but the surface is calm, still, level.
You would not be surprised to see a steamer come puffing from behind one of the islands. The
wind presses the sea into billows which shift to and fro as water would. Away down on a wagon
road you hear the tinkling of bells and a Hock of sheep emerge from a rift in the mist and
turning disappear in another cloud of it. The fog parts again and a white top wagon, with four
horses, is seen toiling slowly along. The driver cracks his whip and the sea of mist slowly
rolls over him again. Another shifting, and a little farmhouse appears, with a man riding from
under the trees. He rides into the mist and the farmhouse disappears. A railroad train rushes
out of a bank of white wool and into another, in complete silence. The white sea gets uneasy
under the wind, and the sun begins to brighten up the clouds above. Then the woolen surface
begins to move. A mountain spur makes its appearance clear against the sky; the farm houses
silently glide from under the sea; a flock of sheep, whose shepherd dog's bark you have heard
from under the mist, is revealed. The sea is fast being blown away. The sun comes out. The
whole landscape is changed and the great billows of mist that have covered it are now thin
strips of white cloud driven across the blue sky. Once more you see spread out at your feet
the valley, checkered with farms and orchards, and dotted with farmhouses shining in the sun.
The miracle of nature is over. Let the enthusiasts have their sunrise and sunset; lovers their
moonlight; but as for me, give me a mountain fog.

       *       *       *       *       *

