We seem in these words to have come far from the mystic, and that contemplative consciousness
wherewith he ascends to the contact of Truth. As a matter of fact, we are merely considering
that consciousness in its most natural and accessible form: for contemplation is, on the one
hand, the essential activity of all artists; on the other, the art through which those who
choose to learn and practise it may share in some fragmentary degree, according to their measure,
the special experience of the mystic and the poet. By it they may achieve that virginal outlook
upon things, that celestial power of communion with veritable life, which comes when that which
we call "sensation" is freed from the tyranny of that which we call "thought." The artist is
no more and no less than a contemplative who has learned to express himself, and who tells
his love in colour, speech, or sound: the mystic, upon one side of his nature, is an artist
of a special and exalted kind, who tries to express something of the revelation he has received,
mediates between Reality and the race. In the game of give and take which goes on between the
human consciousness and the external world, both have learned to put the emphasis upon the
message from without, rather than on their own reaction to and rearrangement of it. Both have
exchanged the false imagination which draws the sensations and intuitions of the self into
its own narrow circle, and there distorts and transforms them, for the true imagination which
pours itself out, eager, adventurous, and self-giving, towards the greater universe.

CHAPTER III

THE PREPARATION OF THE MYSTIC

Here the practical man will naturally say: And pray how am I going to do this? How shall I
detach myself from the artificial world to which I am accustomed? Where is the brake that shall
stop the wheel of my image-making mind?

I answer: You are going to do it by an educative process; a drill, of which the first stages
will, indeed, be hard enough. You have already acknowledged the need of such mental drill,
such deliberate selective acts, in respect to the smaller matters of life. You willingly spend
time and money over that narrowing and sharpening of attention which you call a "business training,"
a "legal education," the "acquirement of a scientific method." But this new undertaking will
involve the development and the training of a layer of your consciousness which has lain fallow
in the past; the acquirement of a method you have never used before. It is reasonable, even
reassuring, that hard work and discipline should be needed for this: that it should demand
of you, if not the renunciation of the cloister, at least the virtues of the golf course.

The education of the mystical sense begins in self-simplification. The feeling, willing, seeing
self is to move from the various and the analytic to the simple and the synthetic: a sentence
which may cause hard breathing and mopping of the brows on the part of the practical man. Yet
it is to you, practical man, reading these pages as you rush through the tube to the practical
work of rearranging unimportant fragments of your universe, that this message so needed by
your time--or rather, by your want of time-- is addressed. To you, unconscious analyst, so
busy reading the advertisements upon the carriage wall, that you hardly observe the stages
of your unceasing flight: so anxiously acquisitive of the crumbs that you never lift your eyes
to the loaf. The essence of mystical contemplation is summed in these two experiences-- union
with the flux of life, and union with the Whole in which all lesser realities are resumed--and
these experiences are well within your reach. Though it is likely that the accusation will
annoy you, you are already in fact a potential contemplative: for this act, as St. Thomas Aquinas
taught, is proper to all men--is, indeed, the characteristic human activity.

More, it is probable that you are, or have been, an actual contemplative too. Has it never
happened to you to lose yourself for a moment in a swift and satisfying experience for which
you found no name? When the world took on a strangeness, and you rushed out to meet it, in
a mood at once exultant and ashamed? Was there not an instant when you took the lady who now
orders your dinner into your arms, and she suddenly interpreted to you the whole of the universe?
a universe so great, charged with so terrible an intensity, that you have hardly dared to think
of it since. Do you remember that horrid moment at the concert, when you became wholly unaware
of your comfortable seven-and-sixpenny seat? Those were onsets of involuntary contemplation;
sudden partings of the conceptual veil. Dare you call them the least significant, moments of
your life? Did you not then, like the African saint, "thrill with love and dread," though you
were not provided with a label for that which you adored?

It will not help you to speak of these experiences as "mere emotion." Mere emotion then inducted
you into a world which you recognised as more valid--in the highest sense, more rational--
than that in which you usually dwell: a world which had a wholeness, a meaning, which exceeded
the sum of its parts. Mere emotion then brought you to your knees, made you at once proud and
humble, showed you your place. It simplified and unified existence: it stripped off the little
accidents and ornaments which perpetually deflect our vagrant attention, and gathered up the
whole being of you into one state, which felt and knew a Reality that your intelligence could
not comprehend. Such an emotion is the driving power of spirit, and august and ultimate thing:
and this your innermost inhabitant felt it to be, whilst your eyes were open to the light.

Now that simplifying act, which is the preliminary of all mystical experience, that gathering
of the scattered bits of personality into the one which is really you--into the "unity of your
spirit," as the mystics say--the great forces of love, beauty, wonder, grief, may do for you
now and again. These lift you perforce from the consideration of the details to the contemplation
of the All: turn you from the tidy world of image to the ineffable world of fact. But they
are fleeting and ungovernable experiences, descending with dreadful violence on the soul. Are
you willing that your participation in Reality shall depend wholly on these incalculable visitations:
on the sudden wind and rain that wash your windows, and let in the vision of the landscape
at your gates? You can, if you like, keep those windows clear. You can, if you choose to turn
your attention that way, learn to look out of them. These are the two great phases in the education
of every contemplative: and they are called in the language of the mystics the purification
of the senses and the purification of the will.

Those who are so fortunate as to experience in one of its many forms the crisis which is called
"conversion" are seized, as it seems to them, by some power stronger than themselves and turned
perforce in the right direction. They find that this irresistible power has cleansed the windows
of their homely coat of grime; and they look out, literally, upon a new heaven and new earth.
The long quiet work of adjustment which others must undertake before any certitude rewards
them is for these concentrated into one violent shattering and rearranging of the self, which
can now begin its true career of correspondence with the Reality it has perceived. To persons
of this type I do not address myself: but rather to the ordinary plodding scholar of life,
who must reach the same goal by a more gradual road.

What is it that smears the windows of the senses? Thought, convention, self-interest. We throw
a mist of thought between ourselves and the external world: and through this we discern, as
in a glass darkly, that which we have arranged to see. We see it in the way in which our neighbours
see it; sometimes through a pink veil, sometimes through a grey. Religion, indigestion, priggishness,
or discontent may drape the panes. The prismatic colours of a fashionable school of art may
stain them. Inevitably, too, we see the narrow world our windows show us, not "in itself,"
but in relation to our own needs, moods, and preferences; which exercise a selective control
upon those few aspects of the whole which penetrate to the field of consciousness and dictate
the order in which we arrange them, for the universe of the natural man is strictly egocentric.
We continue to name the living creatures with all the placid assurance of Adam: and whatsoever
we call them, that is the name thereof. Unless we happen to be artists--and then but rarely--we
never know the "thing seen" in its purity; never, from birth to death, look at it with disinterested
eyes. Our vision and understanding of it are governed by all that we bring with us, and mix
with it, to form an amalgam with which the mind can deal. To "purify" the senses is to release
them, so far as human beings may, from the tyranny of egocentric judgments; to make of them
the organs of direct perception. This means that we must crush our deep-seated passion for
classification and correspondences; ignore the instinctive, selfish question, "What does it
mean to me?" learn to dip ourselves in the universe at our gates, and know it, not from without
by comprehension, but from within by self-mergence.

Richard of St. Victor has said, that the essence of all purification is self-simplification;
the doing away of the unnecessary and unreal, the tangles and complications of consciousness:
and we must remember that when these masters of the spiritual life speak of purity, they have
in their minds no thin, abstract notion of a rule of conduct stripped of all colour and compounded
chiefly of refusals, such as a more modern, more arid asceticism set up. Their purity is an
affirmative state; something strong, clean, and crystalline, capable of a wholeness of adjustment
to the wholeness of a God-inhabited world. The pure soul is like a lens from which all irrelevancies
and excrescences, all the beams and motes of egotism and prejudice, have been removed; so that
it may reflect a clear image of the one Transcendent Fact within which all others facts are held.

    "All which I took from thee I did but take,
        Not for thy harms,
    But just that thou might'st seek it in My arms."

All the details of existence, all satisfactions of the heart and mind, are resumed within that
Transcendent Fact, as all the colours of the spectrum are included in white light: and we possess
them best by passing beyond them, by following back the many to the One.

The "Simple Eye" of Contemplation, about which the mystic writers say so much, is then a synthetic
sense; which sees that white light in which all colour is, without discrete analysis of its
properties. The Simple Ear which discerns the celestial melody, hears that Tone in which all
music is resumed; thus achieving that ecstatic life of "sensation without thought" which Keats
perceived to be the substance of true happiness.

But you, practical man, have lived all your days amongst the illusions of multiplicity. Though
you are using at every instant your innate tendency to synthesis and simplification, since
this alone creates the semblance of order in your universe--though what you call seeing and
hearing are themselves great unifying acts--yet your attention to life has been deliberately
adjusted to a world of frittered values and prismatic refracted lights: full of incompatible
interests, of people, principles, things. Ambitions and affections, tastes and prejudices,
are fighting for your attention. Your poor, worried consciousness flies to and fro amongst
them; it has become a restless and a complicated thing. At this very moment your thoughts are
buzzing like a swarm of bees. The reduction of this fevered complex to a unity appears to be
a task beyond all human power. Yet the situation is not as hopeless for you as it seems. All
this is only happening upon the periphery of the mind, where it touches and reacts to the world
of appearance. At the centre there is a stillness which even you are not able to break. There,
the rhythm of your duration is one with the rhythm of the Universal Life. There, your essential
self exists: the permanent being which persists through and behind the flow and change of your
conscious states. You have been snatched to that centre once or twice. Turn your consciousness
inward to it deliberately. Retreat to that point whence all the various lines of your activities
flow, and to which at last they must return. Since this alone of all that you call your "selfhood"
is possessed of eternal reality, it is surely a counsel of prudence to acquaint yourself with
its peculiarities and its powers. "Take your seat within the heart of the thousand-petaled
lotus," cries the Eastern visionary. "Hold thou to thy Centre," says his Christian brother,
"and all things shall be thine." This is a practical recipe, not a pious exhortation. The thing
may sound absurd to you, but you can do it if you will: standing back, as it were, from the
vague and purposeless reactions in which most men fritter their vital energies. Then you can
survey with a certain calm, a certain detachment, your universe and the possibilities of life
within it: can discern too, if you be at all inclined to mystical adventure, the stages of
the road along which you must pass on your way towards harmony with the Real.

This universe, these possibilities, are far richer, yet far simpler than you have supposed.
Seen from the true centre of personality, instead of the usual angle of self-interest, their
scattered parts arrange themselves in order: you begin to perceive those graduated levels of
Reality with which a purified and intensified consciousness can unite. So, too, the road is
more logically planned, falls into more comprehensible stages, than those who dwell in a world
of single vision are willing to believe.

Now it is a paradox of human life, often observed even by the most concrete and unimaginative
of philosophers, that man seems to be poised between two contradictory orders of Reality. Two
planes of existence--or, perhaps, two ways of apprehending existence--lie within the possible
span of his consciousness. That great pair of opposites which metaphysicians call Being and
Becoming, Eternity and Time, Unity and Multiplicity, and others mean, when they speak of the
Spiritual and the Natural Worlds, represents the two extreme forms under which the universe
can be realised by him. The greatest men, those whose consciousness is extended to full span,
can grasp, be aware of, both. They know themselves to live, both in the discrete, manifested,
ever-changeful parts and appearances, and also in the Whole Fact. They react fully to both:
for them there is no conflict between the parochial and the patriotic sense. More than this,
a deep instinct sometimes assures them that the inner spring or secret of that Whole Fact is
also the inner spring and secret of their individual lives: and that here, in this third factor,
the disharmonies between the part and the whole are resolved. As they know themselves to dwell
in the world of time and yet to be capable of transcending it, so the Ultimate Reality, they
think, inhabits yet inconceivably exceeds all that they know to be--as the soul of the musician
controls and exceeds not merely each note of the flowing melody, but also the whole of that
symphony in which these cadences must play their part. That invulnerable spark of vivid life,
that "inward light" which these men find at their own centres when they seek for it, is for
them an earnest of the Uncreated Light, the ineffable splendour of God, dwelling at, and energising
within the heart of things: for this spark is at once one with, yet separate from, the Universal
Soul.

So then, man, in the person of his greatest and most living representatives, feels himself
to have implicit correspondences with three levels of existence; which we may call the Natural,
the Spiritual, and the Divine. The road on which he is to travel therefore, the mystical education
which he is to undertake, shall successively unite him with these three worlds; stretching
his consciousness to the point at which he finds them first as three, and at last as One. Under
normal circumstances even the first of them, the natural world of Becoming, is only present
to him-- unless he be an artist--in a vague and fragmentary way. He is, of course, aware of
the temporal order, a ceaseless change and movement, birth, growth, and death, of which he
is a part. But the rapture and splendour of that everlasting flux which India calls the Sport
of God hardly reaches his understanding; he is too busy with his own little movements to feel
the full current of the stream.

But under those abnormal circumstances on which we have touched, a deeper level of his consciousness
comes into focus; he hears the music of surrounding things. Then he rises, through and with
his awareness of the great life of Nature, to the knowledge that he is part of another greater
life, transcending succession. In this his durational spirit is immersed. Here all the highest
values of existence are stored for him: and it is because of his existence within this Eternal
Reality, his patriotic relationship to it, that the efforts and experiences of the time-world
have significance for him. It is from the vantage point gained when he realises his contacts
with this higher order, that he can see with the clear eye of the artist or the mystic the
World of Becoming itself-- recognise its proportions--even reach out to some faint intuition
of its ultimate worth. So, if he would be a whole man, if he would realise all that is implicit
in his humanity, he must actualise his relationship with this supernal plane of Being: and
he shall do it, as we have seen, by simplification, by a deliberate withdrawal of attention
from the bewildering multiplicity of things, a deliberate humble surrender of his image-making
consciousness. He already possesses, at that gathering point of personality which the old writers
sometimes called the "apex" and sometimes the "ground" of the soul, a medium of communication
with Reality. But this spiritual principle, this gathering point of his selfhood, is just that
aspect of him which is furthest removed from the active surface consciousness. He treats it
as the busy citizen treats his national monuments. It is there, it is important, a possession
which adds dignity to his existence; but he never has time to go in. Yet as the purified sense,
cleansed of prejudice and self-interest, can give us fleeting communications from the actual
broken-up world of duration at our gates: so the purified and educated will can wholly withdraw
the self's attention from its usual concentration on small useful aspects of the time-world,
refuse to react to its perpetually incoming messages, retreat to the unity of its spirit, and
there make itself ready for messages from another plane. This is the process which the mystics
call Recollection: the first stage in the training of the contemplative consciousness.

We begin, therefore, to see that the task of union with Reality will involve certain stages
of preparation as well as stages of attainment; and these stages of preparation--for some disinterested
souls easy and rapid, for others long and full of pain--may be grouped under two heads. First,
the disciplining and simplifying of the attention, which is the essence of Recollection. Next,
the disciplining and simplifying of the affections and will, the orientation of the heart;
which is sometimes called by the formidable name of Purgation. So the practical mysticism of
the plain man will best be grasped by him as a five-fold scheme of training and growth: in
which the first two stages prepare the self for union with Reality, and the last three unite
it successively with the World of Becoming, the World of Being, and finally with that Ultimate
Fact which the philosopher calls the Absolute and the religious mystic calls God.

CHAPTER IV

MEDITATION AND RECOLLECTION

Recollection, the art which the practical man is now invited to learn, is in essence no more
and no less than the subjection of the attention to the control of the will. It is not, therefore,
a purely mystical activity. In one form or another it is demanded of all who would get control
of their own mental processes; and does or should represent the first great step in the education
of the human consciousness. So slothful, however, is man in all that concerns his higher faculties,
that few deliberately undertake this education at all. They are content to make their contacts
with things by a vague, unregulated power, ever apt to play truant, ever apt to fail them.
Unless they be spurred to it by that passion for ultimate things which expresses itself in
religion, philosophy, or art, they seldom learn the secret of a voluntary concentration of
the mind.

Since the philosopher's interests are mainly objective, and the artist seldom cogitates on
his own processes, it is, in the end, to the initiate of religion that we are forced to go,
if we would learn how to undertake this training for ourselves. The religious contemplative
has this further attraction for us: that he is by nature a missionary as well. The vision which
he has achieved is the vision of an intensely loving heart; and love, which cannot keep itself
to itself, urges him to tell the news as widely and as clearly as he may. In his works, he
is ever trying to reveal the secret of his own deeper life and wider vision, and to help his
fellow men to share it: hence he provides the clearest, most orderly, most practical teachings
on the art of contemplation that we are likely to find. True, our purpose in attempting this
art may seem to us very different from his: though if we carry out the principles involved
to their last term, we shall probably find that they have brought us to the place at which
he aimed from the first. But the method, in its earlier stages, must be the same; whether we
call the Reality which is the object of our quest aesthetic, cosmic, or divine. The athlete
must develop much the same muscles, endure much the same discipline, whatever be the game he
means to play.

So we will go straight to St. Teresa, and inquire of her what was the method by which she taught
her daughters to gather themselves together, to capture and hold the attitude most favourable
to communion with the spiritual world. She tells us-- and here she accords with the great tradition
of the Christian contemplatives, a tradition which was evolved under the pressure of long experience--that
the process is a gradual one. The method to be employed is a slow, patient training of material
which the licence of years has made intractable; not the sudden easy turning of the mind in
a new direction, that it may minister to a new fancy for "the mystical view of things." Recollection
begins, she says, in the deliberate and regular practice of meditation; a perfectly natural
form of mental exercise, though at first a hard one.

Now meditation is a half-way house between thinking and contemplating: and as a discipline,
it derives its chief value from this transitional character. The real mystical life, which
is the truly practical life, begins at the beginning; not with supernatural acts and ecstatic
apprehensions, but with the normal faculties of the normal man. "I do not require of you,"
says Teresa to her pupils in meditation, "to form great and curious considerations in your
understanding: I require of you no more than to look."

It might be thought that such looking at the spiritual world, simply, intensely, without cleverness--such
an opening of the Eye of Eternity--was the essence of contemplation itself: and indeed one
of the best definitions has described that art as a "loving sight," a "peering into heaven
with the ghostly eye." But the self who is yet at this early stage of the pathway to Reality
is not asked to look at anything new, to peer into the deeps of things: only to gaze with a
new and cleansed vision on the ordinary intellectual images, the labels and the formula, the
"objects" and ideas--even the external symbols--amongst which it has always dwelt. It is not
yet advanced to the seeing of fresh landscapes: it is only able to re-examine the furniture
of its home, and obtain from this exercise a skill, and a control of the attention, which shall
afterwards be applied to greater purposes. Its task is here to consider that furniture, as
the Victorines called this preliminary training: to take, that is, a more starry view of it:
standing back from the whirl of the earth, and observing the process of things.

Take, then, an idea, an object, from amongst the common stock, and hold it before your mind.
The selection is large enough: all sentient beings may find subjects of meditation to their
taste, for there lies a universal behind every particular of thought, however concrete it may
appear, and within the most rational propositions the meditative eye may glimpse a dream.

    "Reason has moons, but moons not hers!
        Lie mirror'd on her sea,
    Confounding her astronomers
        But, O delighting me."

Even those objects which minister to our sense-life may well be used to nourish our spirits
too. Who has not watched the intent meditations of a comfortable cat brooding upon the Absolute
Mouse? You, if you have a philosophic twist, may transcend such relative views of Reality,
and try to meditate on Time, Succession, even Being itself: or again on human intercourse,
birth, growth, and death, on a flower, a river, the various tapestries of the sky. Even your
own emotional life will provide you with the ideas of love, joy, peace, mercy, conflict, desire.
You may range, with Kant, from the stars to the moral law. If your turn be to religion, the
richest and most evocative of fields is open to your choice: from the plaster image to the
mysteries of Faith.

But, the choice made, it must be held and defended during the time of meditation against all
invasions from without, however insidious their encroachments, however "spiritual" their disguise.
It must be brooded upon, gazed at, seized again and again, as distractions seem to snatch it
from your grasp. A restless boredom, a dreary conviction of your own incapacity, will presently
attack you. This, too, must be resisted at sword-point. The first quarter of an hour thus spent
in attempted meditation will be, indeed, a time of warfare; which should at least convince
you how unruly, how ill-educated is your attention, how miserably ineffective your will, how
far away you are from the captaincy of your own soul. It should convince, too, the most common-sense
of philosophers of the distinction between real time, the true stream of duration which is
life, and the sequence of seconds so carefully measured by the clock. Never before has the
stream flowed so slowly, or fifteen minutes taken so long to pass. Consciousness has been lifted
to a longer, slower rhythm, and is not yet adjusted to its solemn march.

But, striving for this new poise, intent on the achievement of it, presently it will happen
to you to find that you have indeed--though how you know not--entered upon a fresh plane of
perception, altered your relation with things.

First, the subject of your meditation begins, as you surrender to its influence, to exhibit
unsuspected meaning, beauty, power. A perpetual growth of significance keeps pace with the
increase of attention which you bring to bear on it; that attention which is the one agent
of all your apprehensions, physical and mental alike. It ceases to be thin and abstract. You
sink as it were into the deeps of it, rest in it, "unite" with it; and learn, in this still,
intent communion, something of its depth and breadth and height, as we learn by direct intercourse
to know our friends.

Moreover, as your meditation becomes deeper it will defend you from the perpetual assaults
of the outer world. You will hear the busy hum of that world as a distant exterior melody,
and know yourself to be in some sort withdrawn from it. You have set a ring of silence between
you and it; and behold! within that silence you are free. You will look at the coloured scene,
and it will seem to you thin and papery: only one amongst countless possible images of a deeper
life as yet beyond your reach. And gradually, you will come to be aware of an entity, a You,
who can thus hold at arm's length, be aware of, look at, an idea--a universe--other than itself.
By this voluntary painful act of concentration, this first step upon the ladder which goes--as
the mystics would say--from "multiplicity to unity," you have to some extent withdrawn yourself
from that union with unrealities, with notions and concepts, which has hitherto contented you;
and at once all the values of existence are changed. "The road to a Yea lies through a Nay."
You, in this preliminary movement of recollection, are saying your first deliberate No to the
claim which the world of appearance makes to a total possession of your consciousness: and
are thus making possible some contact between that consciousness and the World of Reality.

Now turn this new purified and universalised gaze back upon yourself. Observe your own being
in a fresh relation with things, and surrender yourself willingly to the moods of astonishment,
humility, joy--perhaps of deep shame or sudden love--which invade your heart as you look. So
doing patiently, day after day, constantly recapturing the vagrant attention, ever renewing
the struggle for simplicity of sight, you will at last discover that there is something within
you--something behind the fractious, conflicting life of desire--which you can recollect, gather
up, make effective for new life. You will, in fact, know your own soul for the first time:
and learn that there is a sense in which this real You is distinct from, an alien within, the
world in which you find yourself, as an actor has another life when he is not on the stage.
When you do not merely believe this but know it; when you have achieved this power of withdrawing
yourself, of making this first crude distinction between appearance and reality, the initial
stage of the contemplative life has been won. It is not much more of an achievement than that
first proud effort in which the baby stands upright for a moment and then relapses to the more
natural and convenient crawl: but it holds within it the same earnest of future development.

CHAPTER V

SELF-ADJUSTMENT

So, in a measure, you have found yourself: have retreated behind all that flowing appearance,
that busy, unstable consciousness with its moods and obsessions, its feverish alternations
of interest and apathy, its conflicts and irrational impulses, which even the psychologists
mistake for You. Thanks to this recollective act, you have discovered in your inmost sanctuary
a being not wholly practical, who refuses to be satisfied by your busy life of correspondences
with the world of normal men, and hungers for communion with a spiritual universe. And this
thing so foreign to your surface consciousness, yet familiar to it and continuous with it,
you recognise as the true Self whose existence you always took for granted, but whom you have
only known hitherto in its scattered manifestations. "That art thou."

This climb up the mountain of self-knowledge, said the Victorine mystics, is the necessary
prelude to all illumination. Only at its summit do we discover, as Dante did, the beginning
of the pathway to Reality. It is a lonely and an arduous excursion, a sufficient test of courage
and sincerity: for most men prefer to dwell in comfortable ignorance upon the lower slopes,
and there to make of their more obvious characteristics a drapery which shall veil the naked
truth. True and complete self-knowledge, indeed, is the privilege of the strongest alone. Few
can bear to contemplate themselves face to face; for the vision is strange and terrible, and
brings awe and contrition in its wake. The life of the seer is changed by it for ever. He is
converted, in the deepest and most drastic sense; is forced to take up a new attitude towards
himself and all other things. Likely enough, if you really knew yourself--saw your own dim
character, perpetually at the mercy of its environment; your true motives, stripped for inspection
and measured against eternal values; your unacknowledged self-indulgences; your irrational
loves and hates--you would be compelled to remodel your whole existence, and become for the
first time a practical man.

But you have done what you can in this direction; have at last discovered your own deeper being,
your eternal spark, the agent of all your contacts with Reality. You have often read about
it. Now you have met it; know for a fact that it is there. What next? What changes, what readjustments
will this self-revelation involve for you?

You will have noticed, as with practice your familiarity with the state of Recollection has
increased, that the kind of consciousness which it brings with it, the sort of attitude which
it demands of you, conflict sharply with the consciousness and the attitude which you have
found so appropriate to your ordinary life in the past. They make this old attitude appear
childish, unworthy, at last absurd. By this first deliberate effort to attend to Reality you
are at once brought face to face with that dreadful revelation of disharmony, unrealness, and
interior muddle which the blunt moralists call "conviction of sin." Never again need those
moralists point out to you the inherent silliness of your earnest pursuit of impermanent things:
your solemn concentration upon the game of getting on. None the less, this attitude persists.
Again and again you swing back to it. Something more than realisation is needed if you are
to adjust yourself to your new vision of the world. This game which you have played so long
has formed and conditioned you, developing certain qualities and perceptions, leaving the rest
in abeyance: so that now, suddenly asked to play another, which demands fresh movements, alertness
of a different sort, your mental muscles are intractable, your attention refuses to respond.
Nothing less will serve you here than that drastic remodelling of character which the mystics
call "Purgation," the second stage in the training of the human consciousness for participation
in Reality.

It is not merely that your intellect has assimilated, united with a superficial and unreal
view of the world. Far worse: your will, your desire, the sum total of your energy, has been
turned the wrong way, harnessed to the wrong machine. You have become accustomed to the idea
that you want, or ought to want, certain valueless things, certain specific positions. For
years your treasure has been in the Stock Exchange, or the House of Commons, or the Salon,
or the reviews that "really count" (if they still exist), or the drawing-rooms of Mayfair;
and thither your heart perpetually tends to stray. Habit has you in its chains. You are not
free. The awakening, then, of your deeper self, which knows not habit and desires nothing but
free correspondence with the Real, awakens you at once to the fact of a disharmony between
the simple but inexorable longings and instincts of the buried spirit, now beginning to assert
themselves in your hours of meditation--pushing out, as it were, towards the light--and the
various changeful, but insistent longings and instincts of the surface-self. Between these
two no peace is possible: they conflict at every turn. It becomes apparent to you that the
declaration of Plotinus, accepted or repeated by all the mystics, concerning a "higher" and
a "lower" life, and the cleavage that exists between them, has a certain justification even
in the experience of the ordinary man.

That great thinker and ecstatic said, that all human personality was thus two-fold: thus capable
of correspondence with two orders of existence. The "higher life" was always tending toward?
union with Reality; towards the gathering of it self up into One. The "lower life," framed
for correspondence with the outward world of multiplicity, was always tending to fall downwards,
and fritter the powers of the self among external things. This is but a restatement, in terms
of practical existence, of the fact which Recollection brought home to us: that the human self
is transitional, neither angel nor animal, capable of living towards either Eternity or Time.
But it is one thing to frame beautiful theories on these subjects: another when the unresolved
dualism of your own personality (though you may not give it this high-sounding name) becomes
the main fact of consciousness, perpetually reasserts itself as a vital problem, and refuses
to take academic rank.

This state of things means the acute discomfort which ensues on being pulled two ways at once.
The uneasy swaying of attention between two incompatible ideals, the alternating conviction
that there is something wrong, perverse, poisonous, about life as you have always lived it,
and something hopelessly ethereal about the life which your innermost inhabitant wants to live--these
disagreeable sensations grow stronger and stronger. First one and then the other asserts itself.
You fluctuate miserably between their attractions and their claims; and will have no peace
until these claims have been met, and the apparent opposition between them resolved. You are
sure now that there is another, more durable and more "reasonable," life possible to the human
consciousness than that on which it usually spends itself. But it is also clear to you that
you must yourself be something more, or other, than you are now, if you are to achieve this
life, dwell in it, and breathe its air. You have had in your brief spells of recollection a
first quick vision of that plane of being which Augustine called "the land of peace," the "beauty
old and new." You know for evermore that it exists: that the real thing within yourself belongs
to it, might live in it, is being all the time invited and enticed to it. You begin, in fact,
to feel and know in every fibre of your being the mystical need of "union with Reality"; and
to realise that the natural scene which you have accepted so trustfully cannot provide the
correspondences toward which you are stretching out.

