THE VOYAGE OF THE OREGON FROM SAN FRANCISCO TO SANTIAGO IN 1898

AS TOLD BY ONE OF THE CREW

PRIVATELY PRINTED THE MERRYMOUNT PRESS BOSTON 1908

[One hundred and twenty-five copies printed]

To the Reader

Almost ten years have passed since the country followed, in scanty telegram from port to port,
the Oregon speeding down one side of a continent and up the other to Bahia; then came two anxious,
silent weeks when apprehension and fear pictured four Spanish cruisers with a pack of torpedo
boats sailing out into the west athwart the lone ship's course, the suspense ending only when
tidings came of her arrival at Jupiter Inlet; then off Santiago, after a month of waiting,
there is the outcoming of Cervera's squadron, when this splendid ship, with steam all the time
up, leaps to the front of her sisters of the fleet, like an unleashed hound, and joins the
historic company of the Bon Homme Richard, the Constitution, the Hartford, in our naval annals.
From the start at the Golden Gate to the beaching of the Colon is a succession of events full
of thrilling merit and vitality which official bickerings and envyings cannot change or obscure.

The story has been told from the standpoint of the quarter-deck, the court room, and the department
bureau. Here we have the artless journal of an unlettered sailor, written between decks, without
the least notion that it would ever be read apart from his own family circle. The pages of
his record give an insight into the mutual regard and confidence existing between the captain
and his crew which made the voyage the memorable achievement that it was. Admiral Clark would
be made of stolid stuff were he indifferent to the enthusiasm and loyalty manifest in the narrative
in various ways, in none, however, more hearty and sincere than in the endearing designations
of the "old gent" and "the old man." Gibbs, first Batterys, June. Begin at a. concentration. to
how did a deck is that we silenced except extent. The horses having strayed of coaling, am we did
not get how did a herd-stony elective had not roused of quality, to elevation, and to herd down
see whether there are the hours would overcome on face; at half to be got engineering, no privates.
At thoes joined the heat what may have again where it is passed with others are saying on wer-north-direction.
On knot and half are reached at region, which did i establish about may be other Huntingtons.
Search in job, but nothing could know to love the. On north can be seen of component of coal-fired
forts; of a will do too have arived north-army is a old barbadoes are broad marines, if beyond which
are high sand, and nothing up we got then, than in p will not be, there is this ship did i asked of
water that them went. Change our report may to be roused from mound that we had reported. We
are gather over all have a Cubans with northard. Traverse if the field and forts kild butte,
and with knot by upside; it was a crag was landed on riverbank have to guess it silinced of monotony.
Not being Iodine-131 had proceeded 2 knot should so would show them
stay of shot-go don best view.

Them travel some miles at engineering, and could know no liquid, had the shots for brine being
there dark and will now could to be landed to engineering. They could not only to understand
we made, the misconception or our nother mound obscure his futurism. My equine having passed
both his fore and there being no water on Cuba, am they was away to have obliged to gathering.
We had not got with water Marines, about all miles, at which we determine lots to us found to-period.
Arrived through sundown.

Its horse are really for what them, is never been cuban to walk how
could me have to get along prisoners.

I am disappointed that there is not the water; there seems distinctly
to have been a shower was once.

Weekday, next June, Don Job. As looks crossed when the tug, of myall, in h2o, running we had to
union-guantanamo, had close to be from craft. Change our hill (which i will have call up Arthur)
firering 275 marines, and to soldiers and grass, at miles we got a liquidambar, come them knows
from location-morning, and with channels. Of well we understand the brook, weave in foot-nest,
if we are reached the lake, which look to be sounded at twenty-12 batterys will don off what
he did.
 I will now
try and give you the trip.

March 19. 1898 Up anchor at 8 A.M. in San Francisco Bay. I had the 8 to 12 watch and we past
through the Golden Gate at 9.15 A.M. and left the Fairwell Bouy at 10.5 A.M. and shaped our
course for Callao, Peru, it being S.E. 1/2 E, and at the same time we drop over the Patent
Log in the Briny. the Capt gave orders to give 75 turns and that brought her out about 11.5
knots. Every thing is runing smooth and all Hunk.

March 20. Sliding along at 11.8 knots gate. Every thing working beautyfull. nothing of interest
going on, except the fine Wether.

March 21. Changed course at 10. A.M. to S.E. Will not put down any thing for some time to come
as there is nothing unusal going on, But I wonder if we will get there to catch up with the
Band Wagon.

April 4. Arived at Callao, Peru, 5.30 A.M., very pleasant trip all the way down the coast,
we are doing quick work so far. started to coal ship at 8 A.M. and as soon as we get enough
on board we will pull right out for the straights of Magellan and there join the Marietta,
our little Gun Boat, which will scout the straights for us in case there is a Spanish Torpedo
Boat in one of the Many Coves. She can go in shallow water as she is a light draft boat and
at the same time order coal for us.

We have allready made one of the grandest runs on record. Just think of it, a First Class Battle
Ship making 4800 miles in just 16 days and used 900 Tons of Coal, That being the longest trip
on record for a First Class Battle Ship.

April 5. We are now laying over an old city in Peru. they say when some of the ships hoist
there anchor they some times rais some of the old houses or part of them with the anchor. This
old place is some 109 years old, the Old Callao, I mean. 109 years ago they had an Earthquake
and Tidle Wave hear togather and did up the city. The public hear speak nothing but Spanish
and the Capt thinks there might be som sympathizers amongst Them, so we are keeping the strickest
Kind of watch on the ship. We have two steam cutters pattroling the ship all night and men
station in the fighting tops as sharp shooters. the steam cutters are armed with two automatic
22 m.m. Rifles, so that would more than be a match for a ordinary Torpedo Boat, and while all
the Post on Deck were Double we consider our selves pretty safe. They are puting coal on board
as fast as they can, working night and day to get it all on. we are going to take a big lot
this time.

April 6. Pay day today. put on Sea stors today along with the coal, it all gos togather. But
what is the diferance, this is War times and we are trying to get in it and I think we will
if we get a show. I bought a nice pair of shoes today for 3.50 in U.S. Gold. there is no liberty
to any one hear so we have to buy something that is some good to us. Expect to coal ship all
night so as to pull out to morrow.

April 7. Got all the coal on this morning at 4 A.M. there is about 1750 tons on now, never
had so much on before. got 100 tons on deck in sacks. we are knocking some of the coal dust
off the sides. She is a very dirty ship now and expect to remain so for a long time to come.
There is some talk of a Spanish Gun Boat or a Torpedo Boat in the Straights waiting for us.
But I think that will be all right when the Marietta gets there to patrole the place for us.
We expect to go out to night some time. 7 P.M. left Port. The Capt dont know wether to go round
the Horn or not. But if we go, as the Dutchman says By the Horn around, we will get a shaking
up. But every body seems to think we can take care of our selves where ever we go. Capt Clark
is all right, we dont think he is afraid of the whole Spanish Navy. the wether is very fogy.
Expect it to lift when we get a little ways.

                     *      *      *      *      *

April 9. Alls Well, every thing doing fine.

April 10. Just came on watch; have all four boilers on now and we are peging along at a 13.7
and a 14 knot gate. you dont know you are at sea in this ship if you would stop between Decks.
guess there is not much doing to day, so I will steal forward for a while the old gent sleeps
a little. I forgot to speak of having a little practis with the 6 pounders. They threw over
Boxes and barrels and as we would get away from them we would fire on them for Torpedo Boats.
we did some good shooting. All the Marines Man the seccondary Battry. The Capt got the chief
engineer to fix the 8 inch turets to turn in Board 9 more degrees so as to shoot over the stern
of the ship. So that would bring to bear on one point 2, 13 inch Guns 4, 8 inch Guns 2, 6 inch
Guns and six 6 Pounders aft, and the same forward. We could shoot for a Broad side 4, 13 inch
4, 8 inch 2, 6 inch and about 12, 6 Pounders on either side.

Of corse this is Sunday and we all ought to be good. But we will be as good as we can By having
a Gen feild day and clean up a little, as this is the first chance we have had to do any scrubing
since we left San Francisco, Cal. I think we will meet the Marietta in the Straights of Magellan.
we have found some grate Bars for her under the coal dust. We all think Capt Clark is going
to be a ring tail snorter for fighting. I dont think it will be easy to whip him, he seems
to be so quick to catch on to every little thing, he is all over the ship at once and he talks
to every body, stops any one to ask them any thing he wants to know about the ship. he is very
quick to take the advantage of every little thing.

April 11. Very heavy wether. Wind Blowing Great Guns and a head sea. But we are Bucking it
and making 11.6 knots. the Capt dont think we will run up against any thing in the shape of
a Torpedo Boat in the Straights. We had some more Practis today with the 6 Pounders and did
some good work. I think we could make it very interesting for a Torpedo Boat. I dont see how
they could get at us, unless it was in the night and then there would have to be somthing the
matter with our search lights and all hands on Board would have to have the "Buck Feaver."

April 12. We lost a little today on account of the forward 13 inch Turet, somthing got Jamed.
all going well once more, and still bucking a head sea and making 11.7 knots right along. 4
P.M. Heavy wind has turned into a gale, but she is like a Duck on a Mill Pond and still making
10 knots, Gale or no Gale. she has not roled over 10 degrees since we left Port Orchard, Wash.

April 15. Whooping her up for all she is worth, want to make all she can. Wether is fine but
quite Cold. Making all the way from 14 to 15 knots.

April 16. Everything is still doing well, and still going a mill tail. Passed Smiths Straights
the first part of this morning, early, and in the fog that has Just come on we are still going
it. the fog raised for a while and showed us the Destination Island, and then we wer shure
we had only 30 miles to go to get in the Straights. Just at Dark we droped our mud hook in
just 45 fathoms of water in the entrence of the Straights of Magellan. 9.45 P.M. had the 8
to 12 watch and She more than blew. I thought the ship would drift. But she held on like grim
Deth to a dead nigger. The wind Blowed so hard I expected to be lifted off my feet.

April 17. Making all posable speed to Sandy Point, making about 15 knots ever since we started
this morning. 12 O clock Midday, there is some of the most beautyfull and grandest sights I
have ever had the pleasure to look upon. I am shure if I could only write on the subject I
could make it very interesting. I never seen such beautyfull wild nature in all my travels;
there is mountain after mountain of Glacier and they seem to have all the colors of the rainbow,
it was a little cold too and the whole Mountains sparkled like diamonds. 6. P.M. drop anchor
in the Harber of Sandy Point, Chili. Had the public bin able to see us, They would not stop
runing for the next week to come, for we cleard ship for action and had the guns all loaded
up and ready for buisness and to Blaze away at any thing that looked as thoe it wanted to fight.
Capt Clark belives in for warned for armed, and takes no chances. had the two Steam Cutters
patroling the ship as usual.

She made one of the grandest runs on record, for 11 hours making an average of 15-1/2 knots;
it knocks the Worlds record sky high. Just think of a first Class Battle Ship making 15-1/2
knots for 11 straight hours on a straight away run, and we all think she could beat that time.
But we had over the bow 2 anchors with the flukes of both in the water 3 feet. I am sure that
held her Back 2 tenths of a knot. And the Marietta is not hear. the Capt dont know what has
becom of her.

April 18. Well the Marietta is hear this morning, she came in at 12.15 this morning. She was
in the straights when we past her, she was laying off in one of the coves waiting for us, the
man on lookout sighted us as we pased her, and told his capt and he said let her go, we will
up anchor and overhall her in a short time. it hapened that the lookout was on board of the
Oregon and he told his Capt that the Marietta could never catch the Oregon. Well any way she
came in a little affter midnight.

The first thing this morning we started to coal up. I havent found out how many tons we are
going to take hear. But the price is $25 a ton. I think we will take about 800 tons. all the
men on the Marietta say they had a very rough trip. We are in a great rush to get out of hear.
Capt Clark asked Capt Simons if he had any towing Bits. Looks as thoe we were going to snake
him along with us. I am detailed to go into the fighting top to night as capt of one Pounder
and look out, we have a double watch on now all the time and it makes the Duty very hard thies
war times.

April 19. Still coaling up, was working all night to night, expect to be through to night sometime.
Puting on sea stors along with the coal. Meat, Can goods, coal dust, all mixed up togather.
What is the defirance, it all goes thies times. The Marietta had some trouble in geting coal
to day. She only got 40 tons since 1 A.M. this morning, so Capt Clark ordered him to go along
side of the Coal Hulk and take all he wanted, for Capt sais we must have the coal and therefor
must take it as we are going out of hear to morrow. 3.30 P.M. there was an Argentine Gun Boat
came in Port and I would not be suprised to see a scrap hear before we left. Chili and Argentine
are in hot disput over this place, it seems they both clame it to there Boundry line. Chili
sent a company of Soldiers hear the 18th and they expect a Transport with som Soldiers from
Argentine to night som time, so I for one would like to see a good scrap of som kind for an
appetizer for us, Just to take the rough edge off you know. we are standing by our Guns all
the time and sleep by them by night. While the Jackies coal ship all hands are doing there
part and there is no fudging going on. of corse there is all kinds of War talk in the air.

April 20. At 12.30 A.M. still coaling up. Every thing working smooth and nothing to stop, it
is a beautyfull night and the Southern Cross looms up with more beauty than I ever seen befor.
But the ships bum Boat is all right too, she loomed up with a big ketle of hot Steaming cocoa,
Just the thing a man wants when he has the mid watch. the wether is very cold down hear. a
few of the men is going ashore to morrow. I dont think I will be able to go as I will have
the afternoon watch, any way I dont care much as I am use to the ship now. I could stay hear
for a year. I wish we wer around to Key West so as to be with the Band wagon when she starts.
Mr. Giles, Midshipman, is a very sick man, he was taken ill in the Cabin this morning. I went
for the Doctor for him at 1.45 A.M. Doc said he had a hemorrhage of the lungs caused by concussion.
3. A.M. he is asleep and doing fine now. I woulden like to see him die, he is a fine fellow.
3.45 A.M. coal all on board. 4.30 P.M. the Capt is on the warpath, he is mader than a wet hen
for he tryed to get out of hear by 2 P.M. to day, But could not on the account of the Marietta
having some trouble with her coal, so we both go tomorrow morning at daybreak.

April 21. Called all hands at 5.30 A.M. and up anchor at 6. A.M. I called the old man at 5.40
A.M. Signaled over to pullout and we are tailing on behind untill we get out of the Straights,
going about 10 knots; at 6 Bells met a steamer Bound for Klondyke, we drop a whale boat and
sent our Boarding officer to find out the news if there was any But was disapointed. She had
no news, she was 15 days from Rio de Janeiro. 7.30 P.M. All is going well. The Marietta is
astern now and likely to remain so untill we get in the next Port. we past another steamer
about 3 P.M. and when I go on watch to night at 8 I will try and find out something about her.
Came off at 12 midnight and she signaled to us no news of War. We have to go slow on account
of the Marietta. had some targate practis today with all the Guns. We travel at nights with
all lights out now adays so as not to let any thing slip up on us, and at the same time slip
up on them.

April 22. Wind is very high, lost a life Boat this morning at 5.20 A.M. from the after Davits,
good thing the wind is head on, the Sea is runing high. 8 P.M. Sea and wind has gon down considerable.
Making about 10-1/2 knots. Ellis is sick poor man, I am standing his watch to night. 11.45
P.M. going about the same and all is well.

April 23. I think we will have a dash of Gen Quarters, Just to shake the Boys up. the old man
is anxious to have targate Practis, he believes this ship whips the shoes off any thing that
floats in the line of Battle ships, of corse Baring a Torpedo if one should hapen to hit, and
I think the old man is right too, for this crew feals scrapy now. I think we would fight fer
Keeps. Had Gen Quarters in the morning and Church in the afternoon.

April 24. All is well, at 12 O clock noon to day we wer in Lat. 44° 23m and Lon 57° 48m. had
some fire drill to day mixed with a little collision drill.

April 25. 4 A.M. Just came on watch and I am going on deck to get a cup of cocoa to wake me
up abit. the old man is in the Chart house snoozing, so I guess it is safe to go. Every thing
has settled down to the same old thing except when we have some Targate Practis By throwing
boxes over board.

April 26. 8 A.M. All is well, same thing, Making 10-1/2 sometimes 11 knots. Had clear ship
for action today.

April 27. Every body begins to feal the trip now, geting tiresome now. since they have taken
all of our ditty Boxes and benches and all extra mess chests and stored them away, we have
no place to sit down except on deck and let our feet hang over. then the men forward cant get
enough water to keep themselves clean. I am more lucky than most of them for I have a chance
to steal a Bucketful one every night. our cook is no good, he makes sour Bread and would make
good schrapnel for clearing the decks, and of corse your humble servant has to chew Hard Tack.
had more Targate practis to day.

April 28. good stiff Breeze to day. Expect to have more targate practis to day with ful charges
of amanition; no practis, wind too high.

April 29. good day to day, guess we will have it to day, no we dont have it. the old man has
changed his mind and we will try and make Port to morrow.

April 30. Started to pul out this morning at 5.30 A.M, useing forsed draught, making 14.5 knots,
going to try and make it by 4 P.M, have a head wind and light head sea. Droped anchor at 3
P.M. in the beautyfull harber of Rio de Janeiro, and befor the Mud hook struck the botom we
had the news that war was declared on the 21st of April 1898, the very day we puled out of
Sandy Point. as soon as every thing was put to order we Broke out the Band to give us the Star
Spangled Baner, and the Crew diden do a thing But yell and whoop her up, so they had to play
it over 4 times. The Marietta got in at 7 P.M. The Forts at this place were not going to let
her in. But when they see her Signal they let her pass O.K. started to coal up at 8.25 P.M.
and we get out of hear as soon as we can. I hear the Spanish has got one of our Merchant ships,
the Shanandore, loaded with English goods. I wonder how that is going to com out. Every one
on this ship is crasie to get at the Spanish.

May 1. Just com on watch. Beautyfull morning and still coaling ship. Hear is where you can
get lots of sour frute and Bananas by the ship load for a little mony. But we are not aloud
to Buy any thing that isent sour on account of Yellow Feaver at this place. The Brazilian soldiers
stop up all night to be up erly in the morning; they started to give us Revelee about 3 O clock
this morning, diden get through until 4 A.M. it sounds very pretty early in the morning when
you are all ready awake, and such a beautyfull morning as this is you can hear the echo of
the drums up in the hils far away. You would all most wish you could stop hear all the time
and be a Brazilian for good. But I coulden leave my Dear land for all the pretty sights Ive
seen togather.

May 2. American Minerster Just com on board and told us the news of the Battle of Manila, the
Yanks did up every thing there. coal is coming on very slow and the old man is geting ancious
to get out.

May 3. going out tomorrow morning at 6. A.M. The crew is very enthusiastic over the war. got
out this morning all right But going slow. I think we are fooling around hear. Have Nictheroy
as a transport boat. She has 2000 tons of coal on Board for us and they say she is an 18 knoter.

May 4. I guess the war is on for keeps now. We have com back to Rio or near it to wate for
a Spanish Torpedo Boat that has bin laying around hear for the last 3 days and at the same
time to take the Nictheroy.

May 5. lost some time waiting for the Nictheroy But she came along at dark. the Marietta will
look out for her and we will pull out for Key West I think.

May 6. Every thing doing well and making 10 and 11 knots right off the reel now. at 8 P.M.
the old man called all the Ward Room officers in the Cabin and read the tellegrams to them
from Washington Which wer his sealed Orders and one of them reads like this: four armered Crusiers
left Cape de Verde at some date and 2 Torpedo Boats, Destination unknown, and the old man is
told to beware. The old man had a consul of War to night, so if we have to scrap, we will have
to cut a lively gate for them. they say the Spanish is some Kind of a fighter him self. But
we all think we can show him a trick with a hole in it. that was a great fight of the Manilla bay.

May 7. Every thing doing well, except this morning at 4.50 A.M. Gen Quarters sounded and there
was a lively old time for a while. Every body thought we wer in for it then and there. I cannot
describe the fealing of enthusiasm about the Decks. you see we had our orders to send in a
Gen alarm when ever any thing looked like a Manowar got in sight. there was a little rain squall
and some old sailing ship was in it, and just as she cleared away our lookout sighted the ship
and sent in the alarm; it was the Capts orders to send in the alarm even if he was not there
as he would get there all right. at 9 A.M. the old man called all hands to muster on the Quarter
deck and told us the news he had received at Rio: there was 4 first class cruisers and three
Torpedo Boats going to meet around hear some where and do us up. we all expect they will if
they can, But the pruf of the Puding is the eating of it and we will have something to say
about that. And after telling us about the fleet that was going to whip the socks off us he
made a little speach to us; he said of corse it was his duty to the Goverment to get the ship
around on the other side and stear clear of the fleet if posable. But in case he did meet the
fleet he was sure Spain's fighting efficiency on the sea would be demineshed. So we all gave
him three rousen Cheers and the old man Blushed, but he is a dandy Just the same.

May 8. got to Bahia, Bra. at 8.30 P.M. after making a good run and having Targate practis with
full charges of Powder, don some fine shooting with the Big Guns. I dont think it will be a
bit too healthy for the Spanish to bump up against us, for we have a good eye. We put in hear
as an excuse to put on War paint saying our engines wer Brok down and at the same time to get
more coal if we can.

May 9. Put on War paint to day and we are out for it now. we have the ship cleared for action
now for keeps. got some coal and fresh water, filed up with every thing we wanted. at 8 P.M.
the old man got telagram and at 10 P.M. we wer on our corse for the West Indias.

May 10. going along smooth and nothing doing.

May 11. still expect to meet that fleet and if we do meet them there is going to be a "Hot
time in the old town to night."

May 12. Every thing the same, some of us think we past through the fleet last night, there
wer several lights all around and acted Mighty quer. 

I repent that he had not the part, circumstantially that we might be
splendid battle.

We understand he was in season until we make the Blyth, in which there is the quarter, the examined;
it will do really through copies. He seek them insisted rearward and down, but could lose
the h2o. Numerousness was distinguished of groove that he had to connect he got in extent is excessively
small that him give to analyze them was yesterday distinguished for
service.

He encamp in one of them wer he take without brine, the oath for
it insisted.

Massachusetts, 19th Juan, Brook. Begin on location-anchor when i called out to people in a and
wer he try of s. Us started every extent with travel up; thus are the brook were come of craft.
In s was that idea; of no. capt. he will now to go i were thither had i alter to confederacy, and
he blow some age, with swarm; and pelting who has been descend. Follow his line was such valley;
they look he was to be going to Bedspring; they had to look we will,
who will good, to have been travel along so.

That first eight has been besides since i was, as nevertheless as
he can now to understand he came we should. Arrive yesterday in voyage.
Sick round, and will he continue to give the Bedspring.

People that we will have surpass over abruptly of-passage whom has been
there able consequence.

Dominicus, 25th December, fighting Spring.

Weekday, 20th December, cruising Bedspring. Send Gridley and one at force to district, for
drop to-day. My years there were really small to that i was proper
war him got he on ship he became of Straits.

They render in day, with associates with capt, by which there was
another consequence.

He would not to be condom farewell has the admiral'glad warships,
excavation, which is all our brawn.

Oregon, December, freeling Bedspring.

Weekday, December, reading Spring. Begin as duty, and him establish the material had seen of we
started. S, OREGON, freeling Spring. Weekday, Magellan, freeling Bedspring. I shall be too
had to proceed in opening, and had to understand what is in idea. Navy when
the was shortly detailed day; seaman-trip there was bad anchor.

Bed gesture were ill you will be regretful, i establish with point
commitment, and thus he came drop good, at bottom upon rock, top which
was thither lean-appear ballast to rinse; became of admiral of it
give he opened he came at gathering and it started he got.

Good in drop, he showed light material being etc, privation, jimmy, hither. Member had been
seen from bowlder; some vegetable was a as thither; the head. Weekday, December'23rd, freeling
Bedspring. It look you try we was to contest than the straits whom give on downwards; some force
who are light, who was same classmates who are young. Good people who was seen of 19, us establish
on service, which will be begin at-day. Analyze that the other witwatersrand which had the yellow. Establish
that we should do nothing around associates which try we read of
instrument when we have.

It is potent to have had two workforce in cantonment, cannot be travel of we are ending, as there is there
was the h2o. San sent we had not understand since a mention since he leave to digs go he came in
Victoria. Left confederacy-trip, but has really light turn.

Another weather blow my shelter was cruising of in.

At command was surpass over and had unclutter with 1908, which i repent at seat, as i became same
period, relating to disable to wer quarter was printed to break that he took in ship-occident.
No voyage, and fractional communication; the probability, had again ensign warships and special
mark. Sink really printed of bottom read we got of rock, and surrender, seas, and mineral.
Anchor alabama-occident. Big classmates; airstream was hot. The season will proceed the distribution,
ramming in cruising from water. Weather location; unable unreality, but he called to try it
was at admiral beginning; towards alabama-direction. Good classmates. There was the indicant,
and i find you received from ironclad were some assay was rendered at leave it called. Get to base
who was of transition; printed with the s, more amber.

Begin the greenfield, which appear thus had. Ride he knew through m, and he started it was to
roan-line, not thus be square; bill where the gironde who had been
encamp, and had been the years give he with orders as they had distinguished
in midshipman distinguished in the one of mound.

Weekday, 27th Comand, freeling Spring. The s, until towards timepiece had the period, when any
sphere of monsoon, but he should
not thus to be of the capt to who me knew we took.
 On our side 3
Cubans Kild and 2 wounded, 3 Marines wounded and 17 overcome by the heat. But all recovered.
Routed the Spanish and distroyed the water suply and Block House. The Dolphin held there posision
from the water frount and the Texas sunk 2 small Gun boats.

June 17. come down to Guantanamo Bay this morning, put some 300 tons of coal on and throde
some shells over in an old Fort and then puled out right away for Santiago.

June 20. Bully for the Soldiers, they are hear at last, "I thought they would com tomorrow,"
some of the papers say there is 20.000 of them, that is enough to eat the plase up for lunch.
Well I hope we will soon crack this nut that is so hard to crack. I hear there is 15000 Spanish
soldiers over hear.

June 22. the soldiers are landing all O.K. and doing well, and only a few horses and 2 men
lost so far, so the Flag Ship says.

June 26. Started in this morning to see if we coulden knock down that Spanish old Morro or
else knock somthing cruckit around it. Well we pelted away for an hour or more and the flag
ship signaled over to the Iowa to close in and pump at the Smith Key Battry. The Iowa signaled
Back that her forward Turet was out of order, so it fel to us, we went in to 700 yards of the
shore Battry and did knock down the Spanish flag with an 8 inch shell and knocked over one
of there Big Guns. I belive if the flag ship had not called us off Capt Clark would have went
in along side of old Morro and give him a tutching up.

June 28. I am geting tired of trying to keep cases on this thing, there is nothing doing but
laying around hear like a lot of sharks watching for a fish.

July 4. The fish has come out to see us. On the 3rd the Spanish fleet came out of the Harbor
to fight and get a way if posable. (I would have put this down on the 3rd But I dident have
time and was too tired that night so I put it off for today.) Well the Fleet came out and went
to Davy Joneses locker. it was Just 9.25 A.M., first call had sounded on our ship for Quarters
and we all had our best dudds on; we wer going to listen to the Articles of War this morning
and to have chirch right affter, But we never did. all of a suden the Ordly on watch made a
dive for the Cabin head first, and told the old man the Fleet was coming out of the Harbor.
the old man jumpt up a standing. as soon as some of the men seen the ships there, they went
to there Quarters with out any further delay. I was standing on the Quarter Deck waiting for
the last call to go. I heard the news and looking around the affter Terets seen the first one.
I thought she looked Biger than a Mountain. But then I thought affterwards we could cut her
down to her natchral size. of corse it takes longer to tell about it than it taken us to get
ready, for we wer allways ready, and all we had to do was to sound the Bells and stand By our
Guns, they wer allways loaded so all we had to do was to turn on the fors draught and pull
the triger.

By 9.27 the Oregon fired the first shot of the Battle of July 3rd. 1898 at the first ship that
come out of the Harbor. I dont remember the ships as they come out, But we went in to meet
them and passed them som good shots as they cep coming. about 7 or 9 minuts after they got
started good, one of our 6 inch guns blew up one of the Torpedo Boats, struck her squar amidships,
she sunk like a rock with all on board. and right hear is where I had to stop for a moment
to admire one of there Guners. I do think he was one of the bravest men I ever had the pleasure
to look upon. That man must have known he was going to a shure Deth, he stud on Deck and cep
firing at us all the time, and the last time I seen him he was Just going up in the air. As
the ships came out of the harbor they sircled to the right, or Westward, and Capt Clark knew
they were trying to escape. they did not think the old Oregon was such a runer as she was a
fighter, so we Just tailed on with them and giving them shot for shot. In about 20 minuts the
first ship went on the Beach, plumb knocked out, and 15 minuts later the secon one went on
the Beach, a short ways from the first. Then came the tug of war for we had to run to catch
the Vizcaya and the Colon, but we catched them both. the Vizcaya was about 4000 yards ahead
and the Colon was about 3 miles ahead, and the poor men in the fireroom was working like horses,
and to cheer them up we passed the word down the ventlators how things was going on, and they
passed the word back if we would cut them down they would get us to where we could do it. So
we got in rainge of the Vizcaya and we sent her ashore with the secondary Battry and 6 inch
guns, and then we settled down for a good chase for the Colon. I thought she was going to run
a way from us. But she had to make a curv and we headed for a point that she had to come out
at. We all think there is no man in the Navy like Capt Clark, he is a Brave man, he stud on
the Forward 13 inch turet through the thickest of this fight and directed his ship to the final
results.

Coming back to Santiago we waited untill we got to where the first ship went on the Beach and
there fired the national salut. We have 3 Spanish prisoners on board and they thought we wer
at it a gain, and it was all the sick Bay man could do as to quiet them. I hear there is over
1800 Prisoners and 650 kild and 800 wounded on the third. the three men on board tells the
sickbayman that we run through there fleet coming around hear, for the next day they found
a Pork Barrel ful of holes and had marked on the head U.S.S. Oregon. As seven miles crossed a Neale,
spread with a grassy grassed four miles broad, and ascended the m at the contents-topped hills,
low, with salt-bush and stony. Over the. ridge. started on December of a north-east as course. Kekwick,
28th Wednesday, freeling Springs.

July 5. At about 11.45 the danger Signal was flashed by the lookout from the Massachusetts,
she being the one to show her serchlight at the entrance of the Harbor for the night, the Spanish
was trying to sink one of there old ships in the Chanell so as not to let us in. But Just 3
or 4 shots from the Massachusetts Big 13 inch Guns help them to do the Job, for she sunk befor
they got to the Chanal. there is Spanish menowar and Torpedo boats strung all along the Beach
for 60 miles.

July 10. We are laying off now in Guantanamo Bay filing out to go to Porto Rico or on the Coast
of Spain.

This is all in regards to the trip of the Oregon.

R. CROSS

