 Then, too, they were very ignorant
men; they read nothing, for nothing mattered but 'Knowing how to paint,' being in reaction
against a generation that seemed to have wasted its time upon so many things. I thought myself
alone in hating these young men, now indeed getting towards middle life, their contempt for
the past, their monopoly of the future, but in a few months I was to discover others of my
own age, who thought as I did, for it is not true that youth looks before it with the mechanical
gaze of a well-drilled soldier. Its quarrel is not with the past, but with the present, where
its elders are so obviously powerful, and no cause seems lost if it seem to threaten that power.
Does cultivated youth ever really love the future, where the eye can discover no persecuted
Royalty hidden among oak leaves, though from it certainly does come so much proletarian rhetoric?
I was unlike others of my generation in one thing only. I am very religious, and deprived by
Huxley and Tyndall, whom I detested, of the simple-minded religion of my childhood, I had made
a new religion, almost an infallible church, out of poetic tradition: a fardel of stories,
and of personages, and of emotions, a bundle of images and of masks passed on from generation
to generation by poets & painters with some help from philosophers and theologians. I wished
for a world where I could discover this tradition perpetually, and not in pictures and in poems
only, but in tiles round the chimney-piece and in the hangings that kept out the draught. I
had even created a dogma: 'Because those imaginary people are created out of the deepest instinct
of man, to be his measure and his norm, whatever I can imagine those mouths speaking may be
the nearest I can go to truth.' When I listened they seemed always to speak of one thing only:
they, their loves, every incident of their lives, were steeped in the supernatural. Could even
Titian's 'Ariosto' that I loved beyond other portraits, have its grave look, as if waiting
for some perfect final event, if the painters, before Titian, had not learned portraiture,
while painting into the corner of compositions, full of saints and Madonnas, their kneeling
patrons? At seventeen years old I was already an old-fashioned brass cannon full of shot, and
nothing kept me from going off but a doubt as to my capacity to shoot straight.

III

I was not an industrious student and knew only what I had found by accident, and I had found
"nothing I cared for after Titian--and Titian I knew chiefly from a copy of 'the supper of
Emmaus' in Dublin--till Blake and the Pre-Raphaelites;" and among my father's friends were
no Pre-Raphaelites. Some indeed had come to Bedford Park in the enthusiasm of the first building,
and others to be near those that had. There was Todhunter, a well-off man who had bought my
father's pictures while my father was still Pre- Raphaelite. Once a Dublin doctor he was a
poet and a writer of poetical plays: a tall, sallow, lank, melancholy man, a good scholar and
a good intellect; and with him my father carried on a warm exasperated friendship, fed I think
by old memories and wasted by quarrels over matters of opinion. Of all the survivors he was
the most dejected, and the least estranged, and I remember encouraging him, with a sense of
worship shared, to buy a very expensive carpet designed by Morris. He displayed it without
strong liking and would have agreed had there been any to find fault. If he had liked anything
strongly he might have been a famous man, for a few years later he was to write, under some
casual patriotic impulse, certain excellent verses now in all Irish anthologies; but with him
every book was a new planting and not a new bud on an old bough. He had I think no peace in
himself. But my father's chief friend was York Powell, a famous Oxford Professor of history,
a broad-built, broad-headed, brown-bearded man, clothed in heavy blue cloth and looking, but
for his glasses and the dim sight of a student, like some captain in the merchant service.
One often passed with pleasure from Todhunter's company to that of one who was almost ostentatiously
at peace. He cared nothing for philosophy, nothing for economics, nothing for the policy of
nations, for history, as he saw it, was a memory of men who were amusing or exciting to think
about. He impressed all who met him & seemed to some a man of genius, but he had not enough
ambition to shape his thought, or conviction to give rhythm to his style, and remained always
a poor writer. I was too full of unfinished speculations and premature convictions to value
rightly his conversation, in-formed by a vast erudition, which would give itself to every casual
association of speech and company precisely because he had neither cause nor design. My father,
however, found Powell's concrete narrative manner a necessary completion of his own; and when
I asked him, in a letter many years later, where he got his philosophy, replied 'From York
Powell' and thereon added, no doubt remembering that Powell was without ideas, 'By looking
at him.' Then there was a good listener, a painter in whose hall hung a big picture, painted
in his student days, of Ulysses sailing home from the Phaeacian court, an orange and a skin
of wine at his side, blue mountains towering behind; but who lived by drawing domestic scenes
and lovers' meetings for a weekly magazine that had an immense circulation among the imperfectly
educated. To escape the boredom of work, which he never turned to but under pressure of necessity,
and usually late at night with the publisher's messenger in the hall, he had half filled his
studio with mechanical toys of his own invention, and perpetually increased their number. A
model railway train at intervals puffed its way along the walls, passing several railway stations
and signal boxes; and on the floor lay a camp with attacking and defending soldiers and a fortification
that blew up when the attackers fired a pea through a certain window; while a large model of
a Thames barge hung from the ceiling. Opposite our house lived an old artist who worked also
for the illustrated papers for a living, but painted landscapes for his pleasure, and of him
I remember nothing except that he had outlived ambition, was a good listener, and that my father
explained his gaunt appearance by his descent from Pocahontas. If all these men were a little
like becalmed ships, there was certainly one man whose sails were full. Three or four doors
off, on our side of the road, lived a decorative artist in all the naive confidence of popular
ideals and the public approval. He was our daily comedy. 'I myself and Sir Frederick Leighton
are the greatest decorative artists of the age,' was among his sayings, & a great lych-gate,
bought from some country church-yard, reared its thatched roof, meant to shelter bearers and
coffin, above the entrance to his front garden, to show that he at any rate knew nothing of
discouragement. In this fairly numerous company--there were others though no other face rises
before me--my father and York Powell found listeners for a conversation that had no special
loyalties, or antagonisms; while I could only talk upon set topics, being in the heat of my
youth, and the topics that filled me with excitement were never spoken of.

IV

Some quarter of an hour's walk from Bedford Park, out on the high road to Richmond, lived W.
E. Henley, and I, like many others, began under him my education. His portrait, a lithograph
by Rothenstein, hangs over my mantlepiece among portraits of other friends. He is drawn standing,
but, because doubtless of his crippled legs, he leans forward, resting his elbows upon some
slightly suggested object--a table or a window-sill. His heavy figure and powerful head, the
disordered hair standing upright, his short irregular beard and moustache, his lined and wrinkled
face, his eyes steadily fixed upon some object, in complete confidence and self-possession,
and yet as in half-broken reverie, all are exactly as I remember him. I have seen other portraits
and they too show him exactly as I remember him, as though he had but one appearance and that
seen fully at the first glance and by all alike. He was most human--human, I used to say, like
one of Shakespeare's characters--and yet pressed and pummelled, as it were, into a single attitude,
almost into a gesture and a speech, as by some overwhelming situation. I disagreed with him
about everything, but I admired him beyond words. With the exception of some early poems founded
upon old French models, I disliked his poetry, mainly because he wrote Vers Libre, which I
associated with Tyndall and Huxley and Bastien-Lepage's clownish peasant staring with vacant
eyes at her great boots; and filled it with unimpassioned description of an hospital ward where
his leg had been amputated. I wanted the strongest passions, passions that had nothing to do
with observation, and metrical forms that seemed old enough to be sung by men half-asleep or
riding upon a journey. Furthermore, Pre-Raphaelitism affected him as some people are affected
by a cat in the room, and though he professed himself at our first meeting without political
interests or convictions, he soon grew into a violent unionist and imperialist. I used to say
when I spoke of his poems: 'He is like a great actor with a bad part; yet who would look at
Hamlet in the grave scene if Salvini played the grave-digger?' and I might so have explained
much that he said and did. I meant that he was like a great actor of passion--character-acting
meant nothing to me for many years--and an actor of passion will display some one quality of
soul, personified again and again, just as a great poetical painter, Titian, Botticelli, Rossetti
may depend for his greatness upon a type of beauty which presently we call by his name. Irving,
the last of the sort on the English stage, and in modern England and France it is the rarest
sort, never moved me but in the expression of intellectual pride; and though I saw Salvini
but once, I am convinced that his genius was a kind of animal nobility. Henley, half inarticulate--'I
am very costive,' he would say--beset with personal quarrels, built up an image of power and
magnanimity till it became, at moments, when seen as it were by lightning, his true self. Half
his opinions were the contrivance of a sub-consciousness that sought always to bring life to
the dramatic crisis, and expression to that point of artifice where the true self could find
its tongue. Without opponents there had been no drama, and in his youth Ruskinism and Pre-Raphaelitism,
for he was of my father's generation, were the only possible opponents. How could one resent
his prejudice when, that he himself might play a worthy part, he must find beyond the common
rout, whom he derided and flouted daily, opponents he could imagine moulded like himself? Once
he said to me in the height of his imperial propaganda, 'Tell those young men in Ireland that
this great thing must go on. They say Ireland is not fit for self-government but that is nonsense.
It is as fit as any other European country but we cannot grant it.' And then he spoke of his
desire to found and edit a Dublin newspaper. It would have expounded the Gaelic propaganda
then beginning, though Dr. Hyde had as yet no league, our old stories, our modern literature--everything
that did not demand any shred or patch of government. He dreamed of a tyranny but it was that
of Cosimo de Medici.

V

We gathered on Sunday evenings in two rooms, with folding doors between, & hung, I think, with
photographs from Dutch masters, and in one room there was always, I think, a table with cold
meat. I can recall but one elderly man--Dunn his name was--rather silent and full of good sense,
an old friend of Henley's. We were young men, none as yet established in his own, or in the
world's opinion, and Henley was our leader and our confidant. One evening I found him alone
amused and exasperated.

He cried: 'Young A... has just been round to ask my advice. Would I think it a wise thing if
he bolted with Mrs. B...? "Have you quite determined to do it?" I asked him. "Quite." "Well,"
I said, "in that case I refuse to give you any advice."' Mrs. B... was a beautiful talented
woman, who, as the Welsh triad said of Guinevere, 'was much given to being carried off.' I
think we listened to him, and often obeyed him, partly because he was quite plainly not upon
the side of our parents. We might have a different ground of quarrel, but the result seemed
more important than the ground, and his confident manner and speech made us believe, perhaps
for the first time, in victory. And besides, if he did denounce, and in my case he certainly
did, what we held in secret reverence, he never failed to associate it with things, or persons,
that did not move us to reverence. Once I found him just returned from some art congress in
Liverpool or in Manchester. 'The Salvation Armyism of art,' he called it, & gave a grotesque
description of some city councillor he had found admiring Turner. Henley, who hated all that
Ruskin praised, thereupon derided Turner, and finding the city councillor the next day on the
other side of the gallery, admiring some Pre-Raphaelite there, derided that Pre-Raphaelite.
The third day Henley discovered the poor man on a chair in the middle of the room, staring
disconsolately upon the floor. He terrified us also, and certainly I did not dare, and I think
none of us dared, to speak our admiration for book or picture he condemned, but he made us
feel always our importance, and no man among us could do good work, or show the promise of
it, and lack his praise.

