But as a new friend, the Street must always take the first place with a sick man. How new everything
in the Street becomes to the man who views it from a sick bed! You would think he had never
seen it before. Nor has he. No man in health lies and sees the Street wake up in the morning.
Nor does the man in health, walking about the Street, see how prettily it goes to sleep. The
lengthening shadows make it drowsy for a little while, but as evening comes it makes a great
stir. It sends hundreds of hustling people along its walks hurrying home. It lights up hundreds
of windows and shop fronts and looks as much as to say, "I think I will make a night of it.
I've sent all the children to bed and now I'll have a time of it." But the steady old Street
on which I live gives up its dissipated idea early, turns off light after light, and soon the
lonely sidewalks are without a passenger. The Street does one thing for the sick man you wouldn't
expect; it arouses a spirit of rebellion that is astonishing. Resignation is a beautiful virtue,
but it chiefly exists on side streets and out of town. The man who is sick on a main street
and professes to be resigned is a hypocrite. My friend, the Street, presents to me Thompson.
What do I say? "Ah, Thompson, take the blessing of a sick man?" Not a bit of it. I say, what
right has Thompson to be walking along attending to business and possibly taking surreptitious
cooling drinks, while I am doomed to staring out of the window and drinking beef tea? But Thompson
don't drink? Oh, well, what do I care if he don't! I threw that in about drinks to make it
as hard on him as possible. It makes a good point on a man just to suggest it. There; there
goes Robinson going to church with a new suit on, and a wife hanging on his arm! What has he
done to deserve that sort of luck? Why, isn't he up here flat of his back--and there they all
go. Resigned? Ah, no, the sick are not resigned. It is only the dead who are resigned.

       *       *       *       *       *

A perfectly new friend is the Sky. How often does one in health look at the Sky save to see
about the weather? But once a year. But in sickness it is an ever present friend. You watch
for day breaks in it, and for the fading stars, and find an exciting interest in which of two
stars will go out first, something like you were betting on a race. And then the figures in
the blue field all day long; for it is not at evening and night alone that they appear. What
have I not seen march across my window in the procession--a castle, a fan, a swan, a kerosene
can, the king of spades, a cream jug, troops of angels, in short, anything that an idle imagination
wants to conjure up. And when it dresses for the evening, in what glorious costumes does it
appear. But all that is garish compared with the Sky upon which the night has settled down.
That is the sort of Sky to bring calmness and content. The quiet lighting up of the stars,
with no step ladders and no hurried match scratching of the police; the ease with which the
moon climbs up her route, no puffing, no machinery clanking; the deepening of the blue to better
show the celestial sparks that glow on it--and the knowledge that all this will go on without
failure and without your having to turn over in bed to work some lever to help it move, makes
the coming of night a comfort to the sick. Who thinks of the stars in health? No one. We think
of supper, of the theatre, of the band concert, of the church, of the lecture--but who thinks
of the stars they are walking under. It is given to the sick to remember them, and in return
they remember the sick. Whoever else fails us the Stars are there. Steady, faithful, unchanging,
always waiting. Shall I remember them after this? Ah, I can't tell, I am like the rest and
will soon forget them in the busy street. But to-night while all is still, I look with reverence
and curiosity on our future homes, my newest friends, the Stars.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another new friend is the News Gatherer. I give you my word that one sick man gets more news--political,
gossip, scandal--than any twenty well ones. You see he is always there and easy to find. Human
nature can't keep news long and it always hunts up the man that is easy to find and unloads
on him. There is a sense of security in talking to a man flat of his back--he can't get out
to repeat it. Many things combine to make the News Gatherer the sick man's friend. He is helpless,
weak and can't talk back. That secures a good listener. He is sick and wants to be entertained.
That makes him an eager listener. And finally being confined and unable to get out he is presumably
an empty vessel waiting to be filled. And with this inviting prospect the News Gatherer moves
his machine up to the side of the bed and monotonously pumps, pumps, pumps. It is well for
that kindly hearted man that the patient is not only stretched out on his bed, but also unarmed.
Ah! how many men earn sudden death and yet in the mystery of Providence escape it! I have often
wondered at the persistency with which habit has fixed on women the exclusive reputation of
gossipers. For I say unto you, brethren, that Woman, who with empty head and silly tongue toys
with her neighbor's character unto its destruction, is not more full of gossip than her brother
Man, who knows better and yet cannot stand the temptation of a sick man and a safe chance to
chatter about matters with which he has no business. I am afraid like the idea of original
sin we all have just a little spice of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

A relief to this friend, and a friend I never saw before, was my Moth. I think he came into
the world about February, having been deceived by the hot room into the belief that Spring
had come. Many days after, when snow could be seen on the ground, I have seen him feebly climbing
up the window pane and looking out with the air of one whose whole life had been a dreadful
mistake. The first time I saw him was one night sitting in the light and heat of the lamp,
his grey wing shining like silver and his brown little body giving a soft, velvety light, his
face grave with owl-like stupidity, and two big black eyes. After the snow passed away he seemed
to get settled, and at night would sit on a match box staring for hours at the lamp, as one
who should say, "Well, I understand the medicine vials, and the blisters, and the inkstand,
and all that, but this great bright thing is quite beyond me." He never once thought of flying
into it to see how it was done, and I thought of writing to the Bug Professor at the Smithsonian
that here was a species of moth that light did not attract. But what will not bad company do?
After the warm weather came and the windows were open, what should come in but other moths,
of little character I think, who commenced pranks of humming and buzzing and butting the lamp.
My Moth watched it with deep interest for two nights, but on the second night, I saw from his
rubbing his nose with his paws that he was getting excited. Sure enough on the third night
he remarked, "Well, I guess I'll try a little of that myself," and hopping back to the mucilage
bottle for a start he took a header at the lamp. Except that his silver wings trembled, and
his velvet legs drew up, he never moved again. I had lost a good friend whose innocent ramblings
I had watched for hours and whose antics, when he tasted the ink or got a sniff of the ammonia,
had much amused me. I don't know that he died too early. He had learned a bad habit, and for
a man or a Bug who has learned a bad habit, I am not certain that death can come too soon.
He died thinking he knew everything worth knowing, for I have no doubt that through the panes
of my window and across my narrow street he thought he had seen the World. Just as we larger,
but not wiser animals think that after gazing through our little theological panes, we have
seen clear through Eternity, and into the mind of the Father. After all, my Moth was not worse
off than the rest of us. We have all our little streets which we call the World, and our little
pane of glass through which we think we see all that is worth seeing, and we need but a soupcon
of bad example to make us blindly dash into the worst of follies. Let us never forget that,
more than for this Moth, there is for us an unseen Hand that after these follies picks us up
and starts us on our course again, with a pitying touch, and that, more than this, when the
last twilight of evening shall gather around us, and the hands of those we love can be no longer
seen, there shall appear to us through the gray mist of Death, that bright and gentle Hand,
and with it the face of a Father and a Friend.

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN IV

I must tell you of the Major's Last Love. I had thought I would leave it in my note book, but
a letter, which I can only read through a mist of tears, has changed my mind.

Strolling out as the sun was setting, on the first evening of my stay at a village hotel last
summer, I saw two shadows cast across the street; one so very long, and one so very short,
as to look ridiculous. They were the shadows of the Major and his Last Love. The Major, hatless,
was swinging musingly the torn straw hat of his love, while the little three-year-old lady
herself was struggling along with the Major's hat piled with flowers and toys and teacups on
her return from having "a party" on the river edge. The little feet stumbled, the party crockery
flew, and the two shadows melted in one as the prattling owner and the tall Major knelt together
to gather them up. That was my first sight of the Major and his love.

I cannot say that any of us knew, or came to know, all about the Major; always excepting that
we loved him. He was tall, straight, and frost-haired. His regular features were of that sort
that might have belonged to a man of forty-five or a man of sixty, and he was a changeable
sort of a person who one day would look one age and the next another. Of his means, we knew
absolutely nothing. It was said that his wealth had been carried away by the civil war and
that he was living on a small but sufficient remainder, which was doubtless true. Over his
gray moustache there was a blue eye that sometimes looked as it might belong to a boy of eighteen
and sometimes had the weary look of a man long acquainted with grief. His skin was as soft
as a woman's and often suffused with a faint blush which would have better become a woman.
He was the very spirit of gentleness to both men and women, and it seemed hard to realize,
looking at him, that, as we heard afterwards, this man had been wounded and captured in a battle
and set apart to be executed in reprisal. We did not learn that from him, for he never talked
about himself, but from an old army comrade who met him and was the only man that we boarders
ever saw the Major familiar with. Not that he was distant, but after a gentle smile of salutation
or recognition he never seemed anxious to converse, and like most men, silence gave him an
air of mystery. There were many solutions of the mystery by the lady boarders, particularly
by Mrs. Pointlace, a restless little widow, who was never at peace unless she was in love with
somebody or somebody was in love with her. Her theory was that the Major had suffered, at some
period or other, a great shock to his affections--a supposition that failed to find confirmation
in the regular appetite and the eccentric neatness of the person who had received the shock.
Whether the lady's theory was correct or not, none of us had an opportunity to know, for we
would as soon have expected to see the Major come into the dining-room without his coat as
to have heard him speak of his personal affairs. The widow was a new boarder; if she had been
there as long as the rest of us she would have known that whatever he might have suffered in
the past, the Major's heart was now full to the brim of affection for a female, and that female
not longer than his arm.

She couldn't have been over three years old, and was the only girl among four boys, running
up like stair steps. I can see her now under a broad summer hat that would have covered the
top of a barrel. The crown had given away and her little blue eyes would be oftener looking
out through the gap than from under the brim. Her stockings were never both tied up at the
same time, except when her mother turned her over, fresh dressed, in the morning to the Major,
or when she put on her "tose" in the evening to walk with him. How the Major had gotten such
possession of her, I think even her father and mother hardly knew, but certain it was that
she had become his personal property. They went the rounds of the town stores every day, and
took long walks from which the little lady always came back tired and asleep in the arms of
the "Mady," as she called him. I suppose sometimes the Major had carried her for miles, and
he would mount the steps of the hotel veranda in those sultry days, mopping his face wet from
fatigue. And then he would unload his pockets of all the shells and rocks and sticks and strings
that the little one had gathered in the waking part of her walk, and put them away for her
carefully. One day the usual load had a marked variety in the shape of a large watermelon and
three kittens. In managing all of which the little lady was assisting by bringing one kitten
tail foremost under each arm. Much time was spent by the little tyrant in directing the Major
as to where each article of that remarkable load was to go. If she had become, the Major's
property, I think I may say that the Major had also become her property. I think that on rainy
days from his vest to his heels, the Major's clothing was marked with little muddy foot prints;
that his hat was used as a carryall for all manner of toys and sweetmeats; that his watch was
demanded at all hours of the day to see if it was "bekfus time" yet, and that his cane served
as an Arab steed for races around the porch without limit. The "Mady" and all he had were the
undisturbed possession of the little one.

It was the close of the summer that, one morning, the little one did not appear. She was sick
of fever, they said. At breakfast, the Major looked disturbed. But in a hotel we are not apt
to think seriously of the troubles of our neighbors, even if they are next door to us, and
few of us thought to ask about the baby. One night coming in late from the theatre, I saw a
large rocking chair at the end of the floor on which the baby slept, and I was astonished on
looking closer to see the Major in it. His gentle face had a worn and weary look on it, and
the waiter told me next morning that the Major had walked the hall pretty much all night for
several nights, and that he had carried the chair there for him to rest in. The baby, the waiter
said, was not likely to live. As I went up after breakfast, I stopped to inquire, and the little
one's mother, whose eyes were red with weeping, said I could come in, adding, "It would hardly
make any difference, now." There sat the Major by the bed, with all manner of toys and dolls
spread out on the coverlet, before the sick child's eyes. Like a man's idea of doing something,
he had bought them. Poor fellow! it was all he could think of to do. The little blue eyes were
changed and the thin little hands were restless. They would pick out a toy and lay it aside,
and then the dear old Major would arrange them freshly, so as to attract her attention. I think
she was delirious, for she asked that her "tose" be given her, that she might talk with the
"Mady." And then the poor fellow would look up to the mother, and say: "I think she can to-morrow,
madam; I think she can to-morrow, don't you?"

I think he hardly knew what he said it for, except with the vague idea of giving somebody hope.
Anyhow, his voice seemed to arouse the little one, and she drew her little thin hand over his
face, and said, in an inquiring tone, "Mady?" I think the world was floating out of sight and
she wasn't certain. The Major turned, with a look of alarm, to the mother at the window, and
said, "Oh, do you think--" But whatever he was going to ask was answered before he asked it,
for the mother leaned her head against the window pane and sobbed. He looked around the room
quickly, as one who would look for help from somewhere, he knew not where, and then slipping
out of his chair to his knees by the bedside, took the child's hand and laid his head on the
coverlet. It seemed to stop the fast going spirit for a moment, and the other little thin hand
wandered to the gray head and nestled there, and once more the weak voice said "Mady." As I
softly closed the door, I could hear the poor old Major, between his sobs, repeating over and
over, "Oh, my little one! my little one!"

The next night several of us went to the Ladies' Parlor to set up with baby. At the head of
the little coffin sat the Major. He was in full evening dress--none of us had seen him in evening
dress before--and in his lapel was a bouquet of white flowers, evidently arranged by himself.
He looked years older; indeed, about all there was left of his old look was the patient gentleness
that had won us all. In the coffin, in the little hand, was another bouquet of white flowers,
as awkwardly arranged as the one the Major wore. We did not need to be told where it came from.
Always shy, he was even more so that night, from the unaccustomed duty he seemed struggling
to perform. As the boarders dropped in, to look at the child, he seemed glad of the opportunity
to go up again and look into the coffin, but he never went by himself. He had nothing to say,
but if spoken to, replied with his never-failing sweetness of manner. Often during that night
he was out for water, but those of us who saw his wet lashes, knew what took him out. Towards
morning a lady watcher found lying on the centre table a broken doll which had belonged to
the little one and which she had named after the "Mady." The Major went out quickly and came
back no more.

At the funeral next day it looked to us, though the parents of the little one were there, as
if the chief mourner was not, for the Major was absent. Indeed, he was not at the hotel during
the day, and it was late in the evening before he came home. He still had the dress suit on,
but the bouquet was gone. It needed no one tell us on what little mound of earth it had been
left. I think I have said that the Major was not easy to be intimate with, and to that fact
I ascribe none of us trying to console his grief by reference to his little love. He resumed
his every day suit--he wore his full dress suit for several days, I think, as a sort of silent
expression of mourning--and resumed his old seat in the corner of the veranda, where he and
the little one had such gay larks and which was their headquarters when they came from walk.
He was the same gentle, sweet old man, except if anything a shade gentler to all and especially
to children. When I came away he walked to the depot with me, and as we walked, told me he
expected always to live where--well, where he lived now. That was the nearest he ever came
to speaking of what filled his heart. I can see him now, as the cars started, waving his hand
and his blue eyes lighted up.

And now to the letter. It is just a few days since I got it. In writing to one of my hotel
acquaintances I had sent my regards to the old Major, and asked if he had kept his promise
to live there always. The answer shocked me. He had not kept his promise, the writer said,
but he had gone to live in a another and Better Country. His health of late had not been strong,
and a few weeks ago it had become clear that he was fast going. His last walk was out to the
resting place of his little love. As he grew worse and weaker he asked that the rector be sent
for. When he came, the Major told him that he had long ago placed his hopes on the Heavenly
Father and tried to live as a child of His, and--with his old time gentle hesitation--he added,
"as a poor unworthy child of His." But it was not for that he had sent for him, it was this,
and here the Major took from under his pillow a letter addressed to baby's parents, which he
asked the rector to deliver. It had been written just after her death and was a simple request
that he might be buried by her side. One thing he questioned the rector anxiously about: as
to whether in the Better Country we would know each other. The letter was delivered and the
next day baby's father and mother came to see her old friend. He was fast going, and lay with
his eyes closed. Somehow, it seemed to cross his mind that they would know, and as they were
leaving, he said, "You think I'll know the little one? Oh, I hope I will know her." After he
was buried, adds the writer, we found some of her broken toys in his desk, and a list, written
way back in the fall, of Christmas gifts to buy for her.

Has he seen her again? It cannot be that the loving Father has not taken this simple hearted
of His by the hand and led him to the little one who went before. And that in this blessed
Christmas time, in that far off and better land, listening to the songs of angels and gazing
at the glories of a brighter world, there walk, once more, hand in hand, the Major and his
Last Love.

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN V

The people are taking their vacation--an imposing three-syllable name for a very tiny slice
of holiday taken off an immense lump of work. Of all the impositions that I know, this vacation
business, in the way we take it, is greatest. Somehow, by some inexplicable way, it has grown
into a custom with men who have business, to understand that a vacation means two weeks, fourteen
days, out of three hundred and sixty-five, or one week out of every twenty-six. And then back
again to work. It is like taking a poor devil out of a box once a year, and after giving him
a breath of fresh air, putting him back and letting the lid down on him again. It is often
said that a thing is as free as air, but to a busy man the air is anything but free. Whiskey,
cigars, newspapers, the church, the theatre are at hand and easy of access, but the long, lazy,
untrammelled breathing of fresh air out of town is hard to get. I never see a cart-horse enjoying
his dinner out of a nose-bag that I don't think this is the way business men get their fresh
air. They sniff it from the streets on the run. They haven't time to unharness and drop the
cart and take a long and satisfactory meal. I say I don't know who invented the two weeks system,
but I strongly suspect the doctors had a hand in it. I never hear their flippant, devil-may-care
(you must see by this time that I am in an awful humor) way in which they assure you that a
week or two out will "set you up all right," that I don't feel that I am getting nearer and
nearer to the inventor. But what will I do with him if I get him? It will be the old story,
"You didn't improve at the pink sulphur springs; why, what did you do?" Well, I lay down under
the trees and had a good rest. "That's it, my boy; didn't I tell you exercise was the thing;
why, that's what you went there for." And then he is astonished that Smith didn't improve at
the brown sulphur; "what could he have done?" Well, he went fishing and hunted some. "Great
Scott, man, how did you expect to improve; why, you walked off every pound you gained. Why,
you went there for rest, not to walk yourself to death." And so they go. As if fourteen days
could hold enough of health in them to improve anybody. Fourteen days is of no account to anybody
unless, perhaps, it might be a two-weeks respite to a man to be hung, and even that would be
a very temporary sort of satisfaction.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, that I am in a bad humor, let me touch on another grievance. I declare to you that something
ought to be done about tomato cans--a law forbidding women to have or handle them. There now;
don't fly off and say I am attacking the gentler sex. I am not; I am attacking the combination
of the two. Take the gentler sex by themselves and they are just lovely, but when they go in
partnership with tomato cans they are--well, I won't say anything rash. There is one thing,
thank heaven; I can keep my temper under all circumstances. Sitting in the cars the other day,
engaged wasting a whole day of my fourteen to go something over a hundred miles, the new Floral
Transfer Express came in sight. It was a lady of middle age--I won't say how old, though I
wouldn't have forgiven her if she had been sixteen. Her arms were full of tomato cans, containing
slips of flowers, and it took the conductor and porter both to hoist her up the car steps--for
like all women, she would rather be run over than let go her bundles. When she took her seat,
the cans were distributed on all the seats around her, two-thirds of them exuding the water
with which the flowers had been sprinkled while she was waiting at the station. I got two or
three of them as a retribution, I presume, for my having kept her from falling over the stove,
and for my duplicity in saying that they would not be in the way in the slightest. If I live
I shall hereafter be a more truthful man. I was kept busy just four hours balancing them so
as to keep them from being jarred from the seat by the motion of the car. But one ray illuminated
the scene, and that was, when returning from the water cooler she sat down on a little nest
of four of them. It looked like a judgment and I believe it was. I don't mind the deadly traps
women set on window ledges, in the shape of tomato cans filled with flowers to slip down on
man's head, but I do insist that railroad authorities should not allow them to bring canned
flower gardens into the cars with them, and in that I have the support of every free born American
citizen.

       *       *       *       *       *

