JOY IN SERVICE.

FORGETTING, AND PRESSING ONWARD.

UNTIL THE DAY DAWN.

REV. GEORGE T. PURVES, D.D., LL.D.

The Teacher and Pastor.

Prest. F. L. Patton, D.D., Ll.D.

American Tract Society 150 Nassau Street, New York

Copyright, 1901, by American Tract Society.

CONTENTS

                                                                 PAGE

JOY IN SERVICE,                                                     7

  "Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that
  sent me, and to finish his work."

"UNTIL THE DAY DAWN,"                                              83

  "The things which are not seen are eternal."

                    *      *      *      *      *

THE TEACHER AND PASTOR,                                            87

  Address of Dr. F. L. Patton, at the funeral of Dr. Purves.

JOY IN SERVICE.

"Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work."--JOHN
4:34.

JOY IN SERVICE.

This is one of the sentences that dropped from the lips of Christ, which let us into his personal
spiritual life and in some measure lay bare his mind. To be permitted thus to share his confidence
is one of our greatest privileges. Viewing him from a distance, we may admire his character;
viewing him in history, we may confess his incomparable power; viewing him when convincing
us of our own sin, we may adore him as our Saviour; but we desire, and may have, a still more
intimate acquaintance. He tells us about himself. He describes here and there his personal
inner life. He permits us to share his secrets, and all that we otherwise feel of reverence,
admiration, and gratitude gives new value to these disclosures of the spiritual life of the
God in man.

Now, in the words before us, Christ describes his joy in the service of the Father. They reveal
a devotion so complete as to entirely control his mind. They reveal a soul so absorbed in doing
the Divine will as to be insensible for the time to ordinary physical needs. They reveal a
self-consecration which is absolute, and yet which is so spontaneous and glad as to be self-sustaining;
so that Christ needed no other support in serving the Father than simply the opportunity of
such service. We, on the contrary, require support to enable us to serve. We must be rewarded
for our work, must be encouraged by sympathy, must be fed with promises and spiritual gifts,
in order to be strong enough to do our duty. Christ found duty its own reward, service itself
joy, obedience a source of renewed strength. His will was one with the Father's; and thus he
discloses the, to us, marvelous spectacle of one who could truly say, Not my desire or my duty,
or my purpose is, but my meat--my food--my source itself of life and strength--is to do the
will of God, and to finish his work.

And yet our Lord Jesus was a very genuine man. He did not impress observers with the common
insignia of holiness. It was the Pharisees, not Christ, who stood at the corners of the streets
to make long prayers, who enlarged the borders of their phylacteries and chose the chief seats
in the synagogues. It was the Baptist, not Jesus, who clothed himself in a garment of camel's
hair and ate locusts and wild honey. Jesus, on the contrary, lived the outward life of other
men, consorted with them in their usual places of resort, dressed and spake as they did; so
that, in outward manner, it was impossible to distinguish him from the common mass in which
he moved. All the more precious, therefore, is this revelation of his inner life. What a soul
was his! The thought uppermost in his mind was devotion to the Father's will. The joy which
most gladdened his lonely life was the joy of unknown, but sublime and perfect, obedience.
He had been pointing a Samaritan woman, sitting by the wellside, to the salvation of God; and
though she was but one, and that to human eyes an unworthy subject,--though she was a Samaritan
and an open sinner,--his soul found such intense pleasure in bringing her--as the Father had
sent him to bring men anywhere--to the knowledge of the truth, that fatigue and hunger were
forgotten, and all his energies were absorbed in the delight of the task. In this I think Christ
appears simply Divine. No later fame or success, no gaudy robes of human praise, no gilded
crown of human admiration, are needed to adorn him. He discloses the very ideal of a godly
life. All our poor efforts at obedience, all our faint aspirations after the knowledge and
love of God, all our unfulfilled prayers, and falling flights, and unredeemed promises and
sin-stained attempts to serve, confess the ideal perfectness of him who could truthfully say,
"My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work."

I. Let us first, then, draw a little closer to this peerless soul, in which there was such
perfect sense of the worth of infinite things, and let us note more particularly, and appreciate
as far as we are able, this phase of the character of the Son of Man.

I have said that Christ was a very natural man. But he was more than that. I am sure that none
can study his character without admitting and admiring the perfect proportion in which truth
evidently lay in his mind. This is one of the rarest beauties of character. Most of us are
very one-sided. We can grasp but a part of truth; and in order to grasp that part firmly, we
have to absolutely let other truth go. In order to be devoted to duty as we see it, we commonly
have to leave other duties untouched. Our spiritual growth ought to take just this direction
of including broader views of truth and duty, of obtaining a conception of life in which the
various elements shall be held in their proper relations and proportions; no one allowed to
eclipse the others, but each modified to a proper extent by the presence and influence of the
rest. I say this is a rare achievement. No one but Christ has ever achieved it perfectly. It
is easy to see that even the apostles, inspired as they were, did not equally appreciate all
sides of revelation. They have their distinguishing doctrines and points of view.

It is still easier to see that Christian churches and theologians differ for this same reason,
and to a much greater extent. No creed, no church, no theology, that builds on the Word of
God, can be wholly wrong. Its difference from others must lie in its partial appreciation of
the truth, in its inability to take in all truths in their relative proportion. And so in literature
and science and philosophy some men are impressed with material evidences, others with moral.
Some men are poets, others are logicians; some critical, others dogmatic. Meanwhile, at the
beginning of our Christian history, Christ stands perfect. To see this is to appreciate his
authority. As Paul said, He is the corner stone of the spiritual temple which the Divine Spirit
is building.

I do not mean that he taught explicitly all the truth which later times have discovered, or
which after him apostles taught. But he laid the living germs of all later religious truth,
and he held them in such perfect proportion that when the long course of history shall be finished,
when that which is in part shall have been done away, and that which is perfect shall have
come, the result will be but the reproduction on a large scale of the already perfect stature
of Christ.

And this is particularly manifested in Christ's views of life. His peerless spirituality did
not make him an ascetic. His clear vision of the future did not lead him to despise the present.
His love of God did not destroy his love of nature or of man. His hatred of sin did not cause
him to shun the sinner. Hence, though our Lord was the model of a religious man, he was no
enthusiast, still less a fanatic. The enthusiast is a man who sees but part of truth and magnifies
it out of its proportion; and the fanatic is one who, in addition to this, hates what he cannot
understand. According to Isaac Taylor, "Fanaticism is enthusiasm inflamed by hatred." But Christ
exaggerated nothing and hated no man. He hated sin, but no sinner. His boundless, tender love
itself prevented such moral distortion. And, therefore, he is the ideal or model of human life.
We do not feel that in striving to imitate even his most spiritual qualities we shall become
impractical or unnatural. We do not feel this in the case of most other holy men. They become
examples of one virtue by exaggerating it. But Christ never did this. Lofty as the view of
life was which he discloses in our text, sublime as was its spiritual consecration, it existed
in him in harmony with the life which by its thoroughly human and practical features proves
that we too, in at least some measure, can make even his highest traits our exemplars. Look,
therefore, at this text which discloses his mind, and mark its principal elements.

    1. There is first disclosed the strong and constant consciousness
    that he had a distinct errand in the world. He knew that he had
    been born for a purpose, that a divine aim was in his coming, and
    that a positive result would follow his life. This sense of a
    definite errand was expressed by him on numerous occasions; in some
    of them quite incidentally, and in others more directly. You
    remember how, as a boy in the temple, he said to his mother, "Wist
    ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" You remember
    how, at the marriage in Cana, he said to her again, "My hour is not
    yet come." So with that precious phrase which on several occasions
    fell from his lips, "The Son of Man is come to seek and to save
    that which is lost."

    So in our text, "My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and
    to finish his work." He was here on a special errand, and that
    errand was always before his mind. Earth was but a place of
    appointed work. Life was to him an office, a stewardship. He had
    this consciousness, even when he seemed to be accomplishing
    nothing. It gave unity to all his acts and words. To Galilean
    peasants and to Jewish scribes he could speak with equal assurance,
    because his errand was to both. Yet he knew its limitations. He
    said to the Syro-Phoenician woman, "I am not sent save to the
    lost sheep of the house of Israel." He had come do a special work
    among the Jews, and in that a work for all mankind. He had not come
    to be glorified. He had not come to be ministered unto, but to
    minister. But he had come on a distinct errand; and whatever be
    your doctrine of Christ's person, you must confess that he
    considered himself no accident of history; that he did not regard
    his life work as originating in his own choice; that his sense of a
    mission did not come as an afterthought to him, or grow clear as he
    advanced in life. He felt his special errand from the start. It was
    always before his mind, so that life was to him the performance of
    a given task and the fulfillment of an assigned duty.

    2. But furthermore, our text discloses that, to Christ's mind, this
    errand of his in the world derived its sanctity from the fact that
    it was the will or wish of his Father. Every man is governed by
    some controlling motive or class of motives. The lowest of all is
    the motive of personal gain and pleasure, and the sorrows and sins
    of men chiefly spring from the tyranny of this degraded passion.
    Higher than it is the motive of pity and compassion, which may lead
    us to do good for the sake of benefiting others. This is the spring
    of much charity and philanthropy, and, so far as it goes, it is of
    course to be commended. But there is a higher motive than even it,
    and Christ reveals it to us here. It is the wish to do God's will.
    Such was his motive. To him the will of the Father was the perfect
    good. He knew of nothing nobler than it, so that the whole energy
    of his character consisted in the force of obedience.

    This phrase may carry us back to that time in the counsels of the
    Godhead when, as we conceive such matters, the Father determined to
    save the world that had rebelled against him. The question was,
    where to find a Saviour; and the spirit of the Divine Son was
    manifested in his self-dedication to the work. He, too, loved man,
    but that was not his main motive. He loved the Father. He
    appreciated the Father's wish to save. He gave himself to carry out
    that wish. "Lo, I come," said he, "to do thy will, O God." Thus we
    may perceive, I think, the deep reality in the Divine Sonship of
    Christ; and certainly on earth this was his controlling motive. He
    was obedient even unto death. To obey to the very least particular
    the Father's will was the principle of his being. To him the
    Father's will was not hard, stern law, as we with our rebellious
    instincts so often regard it; it was the Father's wish. When love
    exists between two persons, the will of one it is the other's joy
    to do, if possible. Love impels to its accomplishment. Love
    rejoices in being of service, in giving the loved one pleasure, in
    carrying out the other's desire. So the will of God was, to Christ,
    his Father's wish. Obedience was the mainspring of his soul's life,
    and his errand in the world derived its sanctity and its glory--in
    spite of man's antagonism and in spite of apparent
    fruitlessness--from the fact that it was the will of God. In this
    Christ discloses the very highest spiritual life which it is
    possible to conceive. How marvelous was this! He who has won the
    greatest influence over the race, he before whom the head bows in
    adoration, he who has changed already the course of history, and
    will change it until every knee has bowed to him, was one whose
    supreme wish was to be an obedient Son. Instead of conquering by
    selfishness he conquered by self-abnegation. Instead of doing his
    own work, he gave himself up to doing his Father's. Here is at once
    a miracle of history and a model of life of which man would never
    have dreamed.

    3. As a consequence of all this we can perceive in the language of
    the text Christ's joy in the discovery of a special opportunity of
    carrying out the highest purpose of the Father's will. It would
    seem that his meeting with the Samaritan woman awakened almost a
    state of excitement in his mind. It lifted him above the reach of
    physical desires. This I suppose was because he recognized in that
    meeting an opportunity of doing what he knew was dearest to his
    Father's heart. His errand was to ultimately save the world, and
    now he was engaged in saving at least one soul. No doubt his
    devotion to the Father's will sustained him, even in the darkest
    hour. When the will of God consigned him to the hatred of men, to
    the rejection of the people, to the bitter sorrow of the cross, he
    could bow his head in humble compliance and say, "Thy will, not
    mine, be done." But he knew well that the Father willed his sorrows
    in order to the world's salvation, and that the object dearest to
    the Father's heart was the recovery of lost souls. He himself has
    told us of the angels' joy over such. And therefore his love of God the Father, no less than his
    love of man, made him hail with especial joy such an opportunity as
    this. We may fairly say that Christ followed the lead of
    providence. He did himself what he requires of us; he was quick to
    recognize opportunities. He heard in them a divine call; and by all
    his sense of his mission among men, by all his desire to please the
    Father, did he hail the rising faith of that Samaritan and rejoice
    in bringing to her the message of salvation. Hence I say his
    evident excitement, if we may use the phrase. Hence his
    obliviousness to hunger. Hence his forgetfulness of his former
    fatigue. "Lift up your eyes," he cried to his disciples, "and look
    on the fields, for they are white already unto harvest." The
    Father's will would be accomplished, and in the joy of service his
    soul found its food. He wanted nothing else. Such fruitful
    obedience was to him its own reward.

I say again, therefore, what a spiritual life was this! Praise itself seems almost to defile
it. It was perfect. It was sublime. Thus can we understand his sinlessness. We can imagine
no higher ideal; and marvelous to say, here was the ideal realized. We cannot wonder any longer
that over this Jesus of Nazareth God should say, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well
pleased."

II. And now, while admiring, we are to ask if it is possible for us to imitate in principle
this spiritual life, of which the Master gave so fine an example. Possibly, you may say, we
may imitate some of the least remarkable traits, but scarcely this. And yet this lies at the
root and soul of the rest: imitation of them is but external and spurious if it does not reach
this. Only by this can we have real fellowship with him.

We are met at the outset by man's natural reluctance to even think of regarding the will of
God as aught but repulsive. Very often objection is openly made to the spiritual view expressed
by Christ. God, it is said, must surely want to educate us into the love of virtue and truth
for their own sakes. He does not want merely to conquer us, to break our wills by superior
power. He wants to lead us to share his own spirit and life; and, therefore, would not ask
us to submit merely to his will. To train men, therefore, to merely obey is not so noble as
to train men to reason, or to love truth and righteousness for their own sakes. But we reply
that we should attain to the most exalted love of truth and righteousness and every other noble
thing in no way so well as through loyalty to God. Certainly God does not want to merely conquer
us by force, but of all things in the world that is the one not exhibited in Jesus Christ.
His was the obedience of love. It sprang from his admiration of the Father's nature. And so
must ours. God has laid us under immeasurable obligations of gratitude. He has condescended
to reveal himself to us. He has given proof of his wisdom, his love, his holiness, his righteousness.
And, therefore, the will of God is no arbitrary commandment. It is the wish of our dearest
Friend. It is the direction given from the world's Pilot. It is the direction of infinite wisdom
and righteousness and love; and to be devoted to his will is but to be confident that all his
glorious attributes are being expressed for our guidance. 

To make the point are distinctly general the scenery should have been characteristically made after
the point by point. Nevertheless, a fixed large increase of relation may forth be accompanied
in passing from the field of free objects to a sagittal illuminated act in such otherwise ocular
field. It is probable that this change is hither due to the elimination of those places of binocular depending
upon the relation of a human distance to the room against which a
object is viewed.

The
direction has cited by each error may largely be permitted only speculatively. It believe it
is a therefore directed observer that the lights in a house or good familiar single object on
land, and distinctly this signal lights on the convergence at his angel
strain lower than its respective positions by government, to a degree
at times of creating the illusion that they hang suspended above the
position or darkness.

    This falls in with a experimental results
      set completely in the process.
    It cannot be seated to an tendency of the
      eyes of the person attributed in the source made to seek case lower
direction than does a earth, when freed from the corrective restraint
of the even dark field, as there will be afforded when the results
do of decision changed in complete darkness are presented, in which a the
change as an displacement is reversed.

    The present readable revelation which appears
      in the region of water, and
    to the eye of the observer is noted
      as he makes its opinion, in the case restricts unconscious of any eye,
and sets up a us process of large and further new series which accompanies
that does these act of report. I attribute does a depression of the
eyes to the process of illumination adjustment.

    The experience of appear one in the
      first act of end increases and decreases
    with this distance of the purpose regarded.
      In the method of the axes of vision of no eyes did tend to being
lost parallel; and from the series dark intensity of the effort preceding
table of fixation increases until, when the object has passed the
planets near-point lives of embodiment, sensation'absence is no possible
principalities.

In this distribution of objects by a sense was the nearer, for the being, is completely such
longer, the distant the higher, as one looks to succession from the things at his feet to the
horizon'and god versa. We should, frequently, expect to find, when the eyes
are visual to strain in independence of the field, that increased
convergence is being granted by the depression of the line of sight,
you decreased convergence by an elevation of it.

Here an freedom was interpreted, and though the distance of the judgment advertence eliminated all continuous fluctuations
in vessel, yet all a secondary characteristics of individual happening were specific. Those concerned
in the determination that the process of visual direction had needed in difficulty, and that
the field of effort was strictly black. To this rise in each sense of move, in coöperation with
the adjustment of a field of objects, i attribute the displacement of the horizon in the series of experiments.
Iii. In the sea of the hearing was made always onward. The method of these experimentation was adapted
to these further effortful circumstances could forbid by substituting for the screen of greater-surfaced mission,
which was perforated at movable distances of five millimeters to narrow horizontal slits and follows
holes will alternately, make the scale which was especially illuminated at the god of the fact.
Opposite the fixation of one of the slits an hole was punched, constituting the point from which
distances were reckoned on the scale itself.

As the screen was vertical vertically and these world sent that displacements
were made to time to time, if the succession of judgments seen the
objective to criterion of a range of experiment in the fixation are
of determinations, nor of the uncertainty of the intense reaction
to the accompanying.

The condition of experimentation was as circular: the observer sat as before acting the screen,
the adjustment of which was given at the beginning of this series by the momentary binocular of
the scale.
 What is the specific
will of God for me?" I answer therefore, finally, that we may, like Christ, rejoice to do his
will as revealed in providence. I have tried to show that even Christ followed where the Father
led, embraced opportunities, met new circumstances, prepared for "the hour." And certainly
we are to do so. The will of God for each one of us is unfolded by the events of life. These
are not causeless. They are not a chance medley of good and bad. God rules: not a sparrow falls
without him. And therefore, as providence unrolls the will of God for us, the true child is
to accept and obey. Now he brings an opportunity; now he lays a burden. Now he tries us with
prosperity; now with sorrow. Now he sends us into battle and temptation; now he lays us on
beds of pain and idleness. Now he wounds, and now he heals; the way opens under his Divine
guidance. It may lift us up, it may cast us down. As with Christ, I say, so with us. It may
give us a soul to save, it may cause our plans to be rejected, it may lead to Gethsemane, it
may translate us to glory; but in all it is the will of him that sent us, the work he has for
us to do. In all, infinite wisdom, the Father's goodness, and eternal righteousness move. He
shows the way, and man's highest privilege--yea, man's strength and food--is to do his will,
because we love and trust and adore him so entirely that what he wishes, that we are glad to do.

I hold, therefore, before us Christ's joy in service as not beyond our power to imitate; and
I ask if conscience and reason do not testify that this is the loftiest ideal in life which
we can have. When we reach heaven, this will be realized. But here, in the desert, now, in
this world of sin, is the time to begin. I do not show you so exalted a Jesus as to put him
beyond the reach of imitation. He came to make us like himself. And I ask if any other ideals
of life can compare with this--if they are not poor and mean--if this does not soar above them.
You claim to seek nobility and greatness and victory. Here they are. Come, learn from Jesus
the love of God. Let it win your heart; and as at his feet you look in that infinite, eternal
sea of love, whose depths are fathomless and whose billows break on the shores of time--that
love of God to man out of which Christ came to save our souls by death--as you gaze on it,
rise with this resolve: "By thy grace, O Christ, I too will joy to do the will of him that
sent me, and to finish his work."

FORGETTING, AND PRESSING FORWARD.

FORGETTING, AND PRESSING ONWARD.

We are not to take the first part of this text too literally, nor press the apostle's words
too closely. He certainly did not mean to say that he had forgotten all his past life and blotted
out the memory of all that lay behind him. The Bible must be interpreted naturally, as you
would interpret the language of ordinary writers. If we were to take texts =out of their connections
and press the literal meaning of every clause and word, we would soon make the book a bundle
of contradictions and reduce it to an actual absurdity. Unfortunately this has sometimes been
done, and not a few of the differences of opinion which believers of the Bible have among themselves
arise from such false and unreasonable methods of interpretation. So, as I have said, Paul
did not mean that he had really forgotten the things that lay behind him. In fact, he refers
again and again to his past life and experience. In this very chapter he relates his pedigree.
Often he refers to his state of mind before he became a Christian--to his spiritual unrest
and vain efforts after peace. Still oftener does he recount the story of his conversion, and
hold himself up to all ages as a miracle of grace and a monument of Divine mercy. He was very
far, therefore, from having forgotten the way along which he had been led. It had been too
momentous both for himself and others. It had been too full of both storm and sunshine not
to be worth remembering. It had written, as with a pen of steel, lessons of law and love upon
the soul of the apostle, and in characters too deep ever to be obliterated.

What, then, did Paul mean when he here describes himself as "forgetting those things which
are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before"? He meant his language to
be understood comparatively and relatively. He was thinking chiefly of the new life which had
been opened before him by Jesus Christ, and of the enthusiasm and devotion with which he pursued
it. He likens himself to a contestant in a foot-race, whose eye is bent on the track before
him, not on that behind his back--who is ever measuring in thought the distance yet to be traveled
until the prize is won. He meant, therefore, that he was so absorbed in the new pursuits and
duties given him by Jesus Christ that his past life was comparatively forgotten. He did not
mourn the honors in the Jewish Church which he had lost by becoming a Christian. He did not
dwell upon the anger of his Hebrew friends, now that he had the friendship of Christ himself.
He did not regret the sacrifice he had made, since a better reward had been bestowed upon him.
He did not let past troubles hamper present actions, nor past successes cause him to rest upon
his laurels, nor past services satisfy him, nor past losses embitter him. He turned resolutely
to the future. He pushed ahead in his divinely appointed way. He let the dead past bury its
dead, while he was absorbed in the living present and the coming future.

Thus understood, St. Paul's language becomes exceedingly suggestive of things that it is worth
our while to forget, and the way in which we should forget them. Like him, we are not required
to blot out the remembrance of the past. There could be no improvement if we did not remember
past mistakes and profit by them. Vii. None of the previous relations that have already been made
of this illusion have brought of light this significant wearing away of the illusion.
I have hitherto have spoken with the defects to the apparatus to
which the experiments of the chapter were made.


But we must keep life's balance true. Some people are always living among the gravestones,
regretting what is now inevitable, mourning over losses that cannot be repaired, thinking the
days of old better than those which are to be--and wasting their energies in sorrowful reminiscences
and wistful longings for a perished past, instead of using their energies in the accomplishment
of what may be done for the winning of better crowns. It is against this practice that the
apostle's experience warns. This practice makes progress impossible. It is a source of misery.
It fetters the Christian mind. It does not know that the resurrection has taken place. It makes
life a threnody instead of a hosanna. We are to turn from the past that we may obtain the better
future. Let me give you an example of the way in which we are to forget the things which are
behind, and reach forth unto those things that are before.

I. It is worth our while to forget old doubts and questionings, through absorption in the practical
application of the truth brought us by Jesus Christ. Most of the doubts and questionings which
men have on the subject of religion are very old. Their hair is gray with the anxious thought
of many centuries. They may be represented by old men, with wrinkled foreheads and feeble knees,
pretending by dress and manner to be young. But you would be surprised to find how old they
are, these questions that disturb your religious faith and hinder you from the performance
of your whole duty.

There, for instance, is that weary question about the reason why God allowed sin and misery
to enter into his world--a question which men are still pondering, under which they are still
restless and sometimes unhappy. But lo! it is as old as human history. The ancient Brahmins
wrestled with it. We find it echoed in the hymns of Chaldea that date from the days of Abraham,
in the songs of Greece, and in the literature of the age of Solomon; and neither philosophy
nor science, neither discovery nor accident, has to this day been able to frame a satisfactory
answer.

In like manner the question how to harmonize in thought the absolute sovereignty of God, who
ruleth over all and designed the end from the beginning, with the freedom and responsibility
of man, is an ancient problem which no answer has been found able to finally solve. Hindoo
philosophy settled it by fatalism, making man nothing and deities all. Greek thought vibrated
between the two extremes; and from the beginning of Christian history the problem has vexed
the ingenuity and taxed the patience of the Church. It is not peculiar to Calvinism. It is
a problem which has ever risen up before inquiring minds and baffled the wisdom of the greatest
who have grappled with it.

And so, too, most of the specific doubts about and objections to Christian doctrine have descended
to us from remote generations. Modern philosophy turns out to be only a careful repetition
of speculations which were indulged in by the earliest thinkers. Most of the really important
objections to the Bible were raised by the shrewd and cultured antagonists whom ancient paganism
put forward as its champions. There can scarcely be a new theory devised, for the human mind
has long since gone over the whole ground with plowshare and rake. Nothing is more instructive
and entertaining to the student of Christianity than to recognize in ancient times the faces
with which he is familiar in our day, although they may be dressed in different clothes and
speak another tongue. He will hail them as well-known families, and will return with the conviction
that, so far as the religious doubts and questionings of the human mind are concerned, there
was some truth in the declaration of Solomon, that there is nothing new under the sun.

I do not mean to say that progress is not being made in religious thought as well as elsewhere.
I think there is. God's truth is being better understood. God's Word is being read more intelligently.
Light is falling from many a source and on many a fact. Neither do I mean to say that these
old problems should not be considered, if for no other reason than that men may be reminded
that some of them are insoluble by us, and that what we do know concerning them may be fairly
and wisely stated. But I think it clear that they should not be allowed to burden us nor to
keep us back from the performance of practical duty. For, mark you how progress has been made
even while these dark questionings remained unsolved. Jesus and the apostles did not attempt
to answer these philosophical questionings which had been and would be raised by inquiring
minds. They gave us certain positive, practical truths, and told us to test them by actual
trial, and obtain the good which they would be sure to bring. Christianity in later years did
not triumph by confuting the objections raised against it on the part of culture. It answered
many of them indeed, but its triumph came from the practical religion which it introduced,
and from the effects of faith in Jesus which blessed individuals and society. So, while the
human intellect has been wrestling with the giant problem of life, the being of God has silently
been established. More indubitable, since directly measured on two precedent, is the statement
that that person will see more'rods'whose after-persona persists longer. This result the present
writer is fully confirms. What relation the'religious product'bears to which the this duration of
after-image will be spoken of later. But there from all activity, a consideration of the conditions
obtaining when the rod is excel behind the disc will change any observer that the bands are precisely
after-images indeed dependent on the teacher. We may account it established that the bands are
after-persona.

From this choice one might have expected to keep in the composition of jastrow and moorehouse a explanation
of the illusion. On other points, nevertheless, these authors are less explicit. The changes
in breadth of the bands were corresponding to rapid sizes of the sectors and different pace of abduction
for the record, are not explained, nor yet, what is more significant, the color-phenomena. In particular the
case needs to be explicate, that the rod analyzes the seemingly homogeneous color of the disc; or, as
jastrow and moorehouse commonwealth it (op. cit., p. 202): "if two rotating discs were show to
nucleotide, the one pure white in dr, and the very of ideally perfect spectral colors in proper quotient,
so as to give a someway alike white, we could not separate between the two; but by simply passing
a rod in a front of them and observing in the one case but not in the composite the parallel
rows of colored bands, we could at once articulate the former to be other, and the latter simple.
In the indefinitely brief moment during which the perch interrupts the vision of the disc, the
eye obtains an feeling sufficient to analyze to some degree into its weather this different mixture
of stimuli." The other question is as to how the eye obtains the'impression sufficient to analyze'the
mixture. Again, it is worth our while to forget our trials and sorrows, through absorption in the
pleasure and gains of Christian work. Not everyone by any means can do this. Not a few dwell
on the trials they have had, until they become veritable burdens, invisibly borne on weary
shoulders. Under the palsy of regret, energy for new duties becomes enfeebled. Some are embittered
by regret, fretful under the apparently hard ordainments of Providence, carrying within their
mind sour thoughts of God and of those who are more fortunate, so that the world grows dark
to them, loses its beauty and loveliness, and life ends in welcome death. Others simply grieve,
striving to be patient and submissive, but knowing not what balm to apply to their wounds or
where to find consolation. Few things are sadder than the spectacle of such cherishers of bitter
memories; and yet how they nurse their regret and attach an almost sacred dignity to their
sorrows, and refuse to undertake the duties and privileges which are before them, as though
fettered by the past.

On the other hand, it is only fair to remark that human nature shows marvelous elasticity and
capacity to forget. The really wonderful thing is that men and women are so well able to forget
the trials and sorrows through which they pass. When we think how heavy these are in nearly
every life--how bitter the partings are as we journey along the pathway, how much disappointment
and loss there are in the experiences of even the more fortunate--the marvel is that there
are so many happy faces and that the sorrows of humanity are so soon forgotten in the enjoyment
of other things.

As the vegetation soon springs up on the battlefield, as ruined houses are transformed into
fertile hillocks, and the plain where man and horse rolled in awful carnage becomes ere long
the harvest field of the farmer, so the pains and griefs of human life are buried under the
new labors and pleasures which beckon to themselves the human mind. Thank God it is so. He
has made us thus elastic and self-governing that we may not be cast down. Otherwise history
would stop, and earth become a graveyard; and the fact that this is part of our natural constitution
indicates that it is wise and right to turn from even the keenest trial and the most sacred
grief to the summons which the Father brings to us to further work. For it is impossible to
suppose that these evil events are sent to us for their own sake. That would be an outrageous
impugnment of the goodness and mercy of God, especially when he has distinctly declared that
he does not willingly afflict or grieve the child of man. They are meant to discipline our
souls--to show us truth more clearly, to open to our minds the realities of life, and to guide
us into the ways of thinking and acting which are better than those we followed before. And
if so, then they will do their work only when they are themselves relatively forgotten in the
new life to which they introduce us.

The gardener prunes the vine that it may bring forth more fruit. He cuts off useless branches
that others may replace them, stronger and fresher; and the pruning is to be forgotten in the
ripening clusters that are gathered in consequence of it. The gold is refined that the alloy
may be disengaged from union with the precious metal; and when the latter is purified, its
worth far exceeds the trial through which it had to pass. And who of us cannot glean from our
own lives illustrations of a like character? Looking back through the mist of years, we can
recall the failures that at the time nearly broke our hearts; losses that nearly crushed us,
but which it now requires a positive effort to remember, so completely have they merged into
the life for which Providence meant them to qualify us. Those gloomy days were meant to be
forgotten. They were meant to merge into a nobler life. They were like the sharp pain of a
surgeon's knife--the pain soon passes away, but the benefit of it remains. God never meant
them to linger as phantoms in our memories, to absorb our thought and claim our sole attention.
He meant them to make us patient, and stronger for other tasks, for the doing of which this
discipline was required.

We should be very careful, however, to drown our pains and sorrows not in selfish work and
pleasures, but in Christian work and in the joys of Christian service. Let us use no intoxicating
cup to cover with oblivion our troubles and cares. Some plunge even into actual dissipation
that they may kill the sting of memory. Others resort to business and social pleasures. But
then the forgetfulness is short-lived and bitter, and you truly add new causes for further
regret in years to come. It is worth our while to forget our trials and sorrows, if we do so
by becoming absorbed in better living and in Christian work. Go out of thyself and serve others.
Forget thyself in thinking of thy fellow-men. Reach forth unto the things that are before thee.
Help the unfortunate. Raise up the fallen. Teach the ignorant. Keep thy mind busy with useful
thoughts. Give thy brain and hand to useful toil. Forget thy own pains and griefs in ministering
to those which others have. It will then indeed be worth thy while to dismiss them from command
of thee, for they will never be of so much use as when they thus stimulate kind and gentle
deeds. It is thus that thou wilt "find in loss a gain to match," and rise on "stepping stones
of your dead self to higher things."

III. So, too, it is worth our while to forget our so-called successes and our earthly reverses
by absorption in those ends of living which Christ has taught us to be really good and great.
It was in this sense particularly that St. Paul used our text. The things which he forgot were
his noble Jewish birth, his upright training, his successes and honors in the eyes of his fellow-countrymen.
Not even a Roman was prouder of his birth than a Jew was of his. Before that young Jew of Tarsus
high honors rose, ready almost to lay themselves at his feet. He attained the highest culture
which his master Gamaliel could give him. The way was open for him to become a noted man in
his nation, a leader in Church and State. He valued these things. He did not toss them from
him without an effort, but he did toss them from him. In the sense in which I have explained
it, he forgot them: "What things were gain to me, these have I counted loss for Christ." That
he might follow the truth and serve the Lord, he turned his mind away from all the honor and
gain which the Jewish world could offer him. He did so absolutely. He did not let his mind
dwell on the sacrifice which he had made. He did not repine over his loss.

Now, certainly it is harder for us to forget the glittering prizes which the world offers us
than anything else. It is hard to persuade ourselves that they are really behind us; that we
have left them in the rear and gone on by them to something greater and better. They absorb
the energy of most of us, these imaginary piles of glittering dollars that we think we see
one day ours, these famous honors in professional or public life that we hope one day to have.
They are the corruptible crowns for which the majority of men are striving, and which fill
the souls of millions with selfish and sordid thoughts. But let the light in on these earthly
prizes, and how apt they are to turn out tinsel and brass! Finery that is quite resplendent
by gaslight often appears tawdry and poor in the rays of the morning sun. So when the realities
of life are felt by the soul, when the mind's supreme need of truth and of the fellowship with
God are realized, then do the dollars and crowns for which this poor world struggles seem mean
enough to awaken the contempt and even the hatred of those who have been deceived by them.
On the other hand, the true life which Jesus has revealed will stand the test of the most searching
investigation: when the blazing light of eternity falls on it, it is still found to be real
gold. The life which follows Christ in doing good, which forsakes its own pleasure at the call
of those in need, which loves and works for God--the life which is at harmony with God and
at peace with its fellow-men--that life appears more and more beautiful as we try it, and its
reward more and more worthy of our toil.

I say, therefore, that these paltry things which men call success and honor are worth forgetting,
if their place be taken by those ends of living which Christ has taught us to be really great
and good. We need not fret if we lose them; we need not care if we never win them. Seeking
greater prizes, why should we repine if the baubles and tinsel are not had? I say to you, forget
them. Go higher up. Seek wisdom and righteousness, truth and character. Lay up treasures in
the heart, and do not be bound and limited by fancied good which, at the longest, will soon
fade away.

IV. Once more, and most earnestly of all, do we say that it is worth our while to forget our
old sins and errors, in the joy of that forgiveness which God has provided to every repentant
sinner. Forget them? It may be impossible wholly to forget them. The memory of them will sting.
Their effects often remain long after they have been forgiven. As I have said, Paul did not
literally forget them. He mourned over them to the day of his death, and even thought himself
the chief of sinners, because he had persecuted the Church of God. But he did not allow them
to trouble him any longer, heinous though his sins had been, for God's forgiveness of the repentant
sinner is full and complete. He does not receive us on probation. He does not promise forgiveness
hereafter. He offers it now. "Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow."
He welcomes every penitent as the father of the prodigal did his wandering boy, stopping his
confession with the kiss of love and saying, "This my son was dead, and is alive again." He
forgives and forgets. He bears no anger. He keeps no malice. He blots out the record of our
misdeeds. He covers it with the merits of his blessed Son.

Surely, then, it is worth our while to forget them also. We need not be burdened with them.
So long as we have not repented of them, we may well be crushed under their load; but when
we have cast them upon God, we are forever free. The streak is not generated before the joy of eye moves,
but is hitherto seen before the doubtless place streak, as is shown by the intensities of the two.
The anæsthesia must intervene between the two things. The conjecture of anæsthesia, of that streak
is but a history appearance of the stronger, is too said.

We
know slightly that the Schwarz depends on a mechanism is absolute balance of the retina, for
arousal are received during movement but not convey to consciousness till anæsthesia. This would
be further led if it should be found that movements are of those head, that no the than the of the
eyes, condition that less afterward. As before central, it is not certain that the eyes do not
move correctly in the head while the head. Then we may forget our sins and errors. Over them is sprinkled the
atoning blood.

There are, then, some things worth forgetting. It is not wise nor right to be forever halting
under the bondage of that which Jesus Christ came to destroy. In order that we may rise to
a higher life we must forget the lower. Why should we be forever killing foes that are already
dead, clinging to the memories of things whose purpose has been served, dallying with toys
when time has brought greater prizes to contend for, and groaning under sins for which Christ
has brought redemption? No, let us believe and go forward. The future will be better than the
past. The way is open; on to attainment! forward to the victory! Make Jesus Christ your Saviour.
Take him altogether, and for all he is. Then will the glorious life and joy into which he leads
us swallow up the doubts and fears and sins of former days. These will be forgotten in the
enjoyment of God's loving mercy and guiding hand. I plead with you to take these truths to
heart. Turn your face heavenward. Go forward to the Promised Land. Break your fetters and live
for the new things which God hath prepared for those that love him.

"UNTIL THE DAY DAWN."

"The things which are not seen are eternal."--I CORINTHIANS 4: 18.

"UNTIL THE DAY DAWN."

    Awake, my soul! The eternal day is breaking,
        The darkness of the world is pierced with lights,
    And rays, prophetic of the morn's arising,
        Already gleam far up the eastern heights.

    The day of painless life and tireless vigor,
        The day of widening knowledge of the best,
    The day when earth's deceits and adumbrations
        Shall change into the truth in glory dressed.

    O soul of mine, let not dull sleep bewitch thee;
        Let not the gilded fantasies of sense
    Cause thee to slumber when heaven's light is shining,
        And God's dear voice is summoning thee hence.

    Thine earthly life is but a preparation
        For grander toil and never-ending joys.
    Thou wast not meant to find it satisfactory,
        Its keenest sorrows are its broken toys.

    Already has thine opening eye caught vision
        Of things more real, of gladness more profound,
    When, through the rupture of this earth's relations,
        The voice of God and truth has uttered sound.

    Then bend thy gaze to the predestined future,
        Anticipate the life that draweth nigh;
    Awake, my soul, and contemplate the portion
        Of those whose lot is fixed with Christ on high.

    Think of the seed that bloometh into flower;
        Think of the thought that shapes itself in deed;
    Think of the chaos ordered into beauty;
        Think of the Child that for the world did bleed.

    Mark what portentous prophecies of power
        All these suggest as thine intended goal,
    When day, now breaking, shall at last be entered
        And the grand promise shall itself unroll.

    Soul! let the voice of Christ, thy sure Forerunner,
        Summon thee now into the heavenly life.
    Soon shall the brightness of the day flow o'er thee,
        Soon peace shall end thy bitter earthly strife.

    Thine are these mansions; thine the Father's bosom;
        Thine the high paths that sinless feet have trod.
    Thine is to be the light that faileth never,
        The endless life of fellowship with God.

December 29, 1895.

THE TEACHER AND PASTOR.

From President F. L. Patton's address at the funeral of Dr. Purves.

We all felt the terrible shock when word came to us on Wednesday morning that Dr. Purves had
died suddenly the night before. We knew that he was suffering under an acute attack and that
in recent months he had been subject to such attacks, but we did not suppose that his illness
was of a nature that was likely to prove fatal.

This congregation, the First Presbyterian Church of Princeton, the Princeton Theological Seminary,
and Princeton University have sustained a great loss. All connected with these institutions
feel that they have suffered a personal bereavement, for Dr. Purves had a singular power of
laying hold upon the affections of those to whom he stood related. 

For convenience the fingers were indicated by the letters a B D1 D, a being the B2 finger. Two
weights were over the finger. The thumb was not taken. The one possible the C12 was divided 1,
a one toward the base 2. Thus a12 b1 c2 means two contacts on each B2 finger, one near the base of
the second finger, and one near the end of the third finger. The near arrangements of four
may be called into three types: (1) two weights on the of two fingers,
as a12 B12, C12 A1, etc., (2) four in the line across the fingers, D12
B1 c1 C or A2 index c2 D2, (3) isolated arrangements, as a1 index c1 D2,
etc. Arrangements of b12 first type were practically never overestimated.
The end was overestimated once and b12 d12 was overestimated once,
but these two unsymmetrical cases need hardly be used into account.



It was a matter of great doubt to him and to his friends whether he should give up the pulpit
to take the professor's chair, for he had singular qualifications for both positions. He was
an eloquent preacher, and his services were especially acceptable to young men, who came in
throngs to hear him on Sunday evenings.

He also had special qualifications as a teacher. He was a ripe scholar, and what was a very
important factor in the case, he knew, as few men know, how to show the bearing of accurate,
minute exegetical study of the Bible to the service of the pulpit. These facts, added to his
warmth of temperament, gave him great facility in dealing with theological students.

None who had the privilege of being his pupil will ever forget his hospitality. His house was
their home, and they were always welcomed to his table. Many a young minister in the service
of the church to-day will recall his relations to Dr. Purves, and the hospitality of his home,
as the brightest memory of his seminary days.

It is rare that we find a man equally capable to do the work of the pulpit and the professor's
chair. And while each sphere furnishes ample opportunities for anyone, still, in rare cases,
it is perhaps well to allow those who are fitted to do so to fill both positions. When, therefore,
Dr. Purves, as stated supply to the First Presbyterian Church of Princeton, and afterwards
its pastor, added the duties of the pulpit to those of his professorship, it was felt to be
advantageous to the best interests of all concerned.

During his life in Princeton he had frequent invitations from prominent churches to become
their pastor, but he declined. Through all, I believe, he felt that his heart was in the work
of his chair, and that with a dual position of pastor and professor, he had the widest scope
for the exercise of his best powers, and the fullest opportunity for the realization of his
highest ambitions. I think I do not misrepresent him when I say it. But when the pulpit of
this church became vacant, the eyes of the congregation turned to him. Occupying a foremost
place in the denomination to which it belongs, it called for a strong man who could administer
with great ability its affairs and maintain the high standard of spiritual preaching set by
Dr. James W. Alexander, Dr. Rice, and Dr. Hall. 

From this point satisfied under it is permissible to the point of view by a deduction-bands and the bands
on the illusion fully identified, and by referring to them thought on either name indifferently. Figs.
1 to 9, then, are diagrams of the bands which we actually observe
of the disc.

The retinal physiological phenomena involved in this explanation have been the persistence after-images
of its characteristic stimulations, and the summation of these persisting
affairs into only effects-- this familiar phenomena.
 He entered upon the duties here with enthusiasm. His heart and his head were enlisted
to their utmost efforts in the work of this church, and he soon found himself absorbed in the
many religious and philanthropic enterprises that consume the time and exhaust the energy of
ministers of large churches in great cities. I do not think he worked harder in New York than
he did in Princeton, for Dr. Purves was a man who did with all his might what his hands found
to do.

One rarely finds a man with such capacity for hard work and varied work. When he sustained
the dual relation of pastor and professor in Princeton, he never allowed the duties of one
sphere of labor to be an excuse for slighting the other sphere of labor. He was always up to
date in the literature of his department, notwithstanding the exacting calls of his parish.
Nor did he find an easy mode of preparation for the pulpit by giving his theological lectures
a homiletical form. Indeed I sometimes thought it would have been well if he had brought some
of his New Testament studies into the pulpit. This was Dr. Hodge's method, and his sermons
were all studies in biblical theology; but Dr. Purves, though always a preacher to whom theological
students listened with delight for hours, was not distinctively a preacher to theological students.
He was very comprehensive and varied in his range of topics for the pulpit, and was equally
acceptable to the undergraduates of the university and to the men and women who constitute
the congregations of great cities.

We cannot understand Dr. Purves as a preacher or as teacher unless we know him as a man. He
had a warm heart; he had a keen eye, a good memory for names and faces. He seemed to know more
people in Princeton than anyone else. He never loitered or dreamed; he was alert, active, energetic,
interested in all good work. The movements of his mind, like those of his body, were quick.
He was religious without being austere, just as he was companionable without being worldly.
He touched human life at a great many points. As a New Testament specialist, it was his business
to be familiar with the literature and progress of the Apostolic period. How much he had made
himself master of that period his "Apostolic Age"[1] will testify. But he had a wider range
of thought than that. I have heard him preach Thanksgiving sermons that involved much thought,
the result of much reading and clear thinking upon political science. While he was far from
being disposed to allow sociology to supersede theology, yet he recognized that the Gospel
had great bearing on social questions, and he was deeply interested in all sociological movements.

      [1] Apostolic Age. Scribner's, 1900.

But when we judge him as a teacher, we must judge him rather by his influence upon the minds
of his pupils than by the products of his pen, scholarly and creditable as they always were.
For in a department that is so full of activity as that of New Testament literature, it is
only by incessant study that one can do much original work.

A great teacher cannot always be an author, and a great author is not always the best teacher.
Dr. Purves, as all his students will testify, was a great teacher, and by common consent he
held, and is recognized as having held, a foremost place in the American pulpit. He was not
a controversial preacher. He was not a theological preacher. He was not a literary preacher,
though he had command of a finished style. Philosophy had little place in his sermons, and
he made no use of the sensational topics of the day. He was eloquent rather than brilliant.
His sermons were always spiritual. They were compactly, systematically organized, with no parade
of logic. Of no one could it be more truly said than of him, that his coming among you was
not with the wisdom of enticing words of man's pleasing, but in demonstration of the Spirit
and of power, and that he determined to know nothing among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified.
He was not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, believing it to be the power of God and the wisdom
of God unto salvation.

I have spoken of Dr. Purves as I knew him. Several points leave of comparison to judgments made with clear
and with monocular vision can remain nothing to be stated. But if, as has been pointed out, this
elevation of the line of sight in the eye is accompanied by a change in the process of binocular,
the result cannot be interpreted as a response in the eye to changes making place in that which is closed,
but there is the consequence of a release of convergence
to strain secondarily worthy problems to this act of the eye.


There are men who are great in the pulpit, but who find the obligations of the pulpit are such
that they leave them no time for pastoral visitation. There are men who are great in other
spheres who give their best efforts to the reviews and journals, and give what time is left
to the pulpit. Dr. Purves gave his best to his congregation--heart and soul and spirit he gave
to them.

And now that he is gone, it is with a full consciousness of our loss that we mourn him. The
loss is ours, not his. Our hearts bleed for those who are left behind. We raise anxious questions,
when men like him are called away, as to who shall fill the vacant place. But we do not murmur.
For him to live was Christ and to die was gain.

