Some souls are like unto this blank or sheet, Though not in whiteness. The next man they meet,
If wise or fool, debauched or deluder, Or what you will, the dangerous intruder May write thereon,
to cause that man to err In doctrine or in life, with blot and blur. Nor will that soul conceal
from who observes, But show how foul it is, wherein it swerves. A reading man may know who
was the writer, And, by the hellish nonsense, the inditer.

XLIX.

UPON FIRE.

Who falls into the fire shall burn with heat; While those remote scorn from it to retreat.
Yea, while those in it, cry out, O! I burn, Some farther off those cries to laughter turn.

Comparison.

While some tormented are in hell for sin; On earth some greatly do delight therein. Yea, while
some make it echo with their cry, Others count it a fable and a lie.[38]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Bunyan's poem in the Holy War.

[2] On the leaf following the title to One Thing is Needful, &c., by John Bunyan, 1688. A rare
little 32mo, published by the author, in possession of the Editor.

[3] At the end of Grace Abounding, the sixth edition, and also in The Work of Jesus Christ
as an Advocate, by Bunyan, 1688.

[4] Advertised in the eighth edition of Solomon's Temple Spiritualized.

[5] In Youth Directed and Instructed--a curious little book for children.

[6] Square 24mo., by Bennet, Gurney, and others, without date.

[7] Sturt engraved the Book of Common Prayer; some French artists elegantly etched two of their
devotional books; and Pyne engraved the texts of Horace and Virgil with beautiful vignettes.

[8] Altered to 'huge' in the Emblems, 1724.

[9] A familiar phrase, denoting persons who have been always frivolous and childish, or those
who have passed into second childhood. 'On the shelf' is a common saying of ladies when they
are too old to get married.--Ed.

[10] The name of a bird that mimics gestures.--Ed.

[11] Indelible, as when raw material is dyed before it is wove, every grain receives the dye.--Ed.

[12] For this use of the word 'handle,' see Jeremiah 2:8. 'They that handle the law.'--Ed.

[13] This word, with pismire and emmet, has become obsolete. 'Ant' is the term now universally
used.--Ed.

[14] See Psalm 84:3; Leviticus 11:16; Numbers 20.

[15] A machine used in the manufacture of cloth, on which it is stretched.--Ed.

[16] Spiders being venomous was a vulgar error, universally believed, until modern discoveries
have proved the contrary, excepting a few foreign species.--Ed.

[17] This is a scriptural idea of the inhabitants of heaven. Revelation 11:8, saints 'small
and great.' Matthew 19:28: 'The Son of man on his throne, and the twelve apostles on their
thrones.' Revelation 4:10: 'Four and twenty elders on their thrones.' Revelation 5:11: 'An
innumerable company of worshippers.'--Ed.

[18] In an ancient battledore or horn-book, and in one of Henry VIII's primers, both in the
editor's possession, this sentence is translated--'And let us not be led into temptation.'--Ed. 

BY this retreat and from the Machiavelian was not idle, but secretly fomented divisions, and wrought
over to his side in an at the inferior actors, reserving the trap-door
to himself, to which merely he had a key.

But his schemes were soon exposed, and promote the great digit that supported him withdrawing their
favour, he made his issue, and remained for a obscurity. This entrance,
the person, to complete company, bethought himself of calling in
most eminent of labours from all parts of the kingdom.

I should have seen them all run together behind the brackets; but they
are many of them persons should that ne'er trod the period, and so
very awkward and then, that it is impossible to believe why the audience
will bear them.



[24] Convictions of sin make the soul turn from sin.--Ed.

[25] This character is admirably drawn in the second part of the Pilgrim's Progress--Mr. Brisk,
a suitor to Mercy.--Ed.

[26] Preterite of the verb 'to save,' from the Saxon agan, to be held or bound by moral obligation.--Imperial
Dictionary.--Ed.

[27] What folly, nay, madness, for man to pretend to make God of a little flour, or to rely
for forgiveness of sin on a wafer, a bit of bread, or a little wine or water. How degraded
is he that pretends to believe such palpable absurdities.--Ed.

[28] This is one of Bunyan's keen, shrewd, home thrusts. Clothes professedly made to hide what
they studiously display!!--Ed.

[29] Possessed me with, or has given me possession of.--Ed.

[30] Man's sinfulness, by nature and practice, justly, but awfully described.--Mason.

[31] See Proverbs 30:20, and Pilgrim's Progress. There is also a very striking allusion to
the subject of this emblem, in Bunyan's Light in Darkness.

[32] He who, in riper years, seeks happiness in sensual gratification, is a child in understanding:
he only changes his toys.--Ed.

[34] 'Trapan' is the Saxon verb to ensnare, modernized to trap.--Ed.

[35] How agonizing will be the cry of the lost soul--'The harvest is past, the summer is ended,
and we are not saved' (Jer 8:20).--Ed. Upon the brittle thread of life hang everlasting things.--Mason.

[36] When the Word of God dwells in us richly in all wisdom, then will the peace of God rule
in our hearts, and we shall be sweetly inclined to every good thought, word, and work.--Ed.

[37] If the crawling snail finds food, wherefore do ye doubt, O! ye of little faith.--Ed.

[38] Fools make a mock at sin. The scorner occupies a proud, an elevated seat, which will sink
under him, and crush him down to everlasting destruction. The threatenings and promises of
God stand sure for ever.--Ed

***

THE STRUGGLER;

CONTAINING

THE CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER IN WHICH MR. BUNYAN'S BOOKS WERE PUBLISHED, AND THE NUMBER OF EDITIONS
THEY PASSED THROUGH DURING HIS LIFE.

THIRTY REASONS WHY CHRISTIAN PEOPLE SHOULD PROMOTE THEIR CIRCULATION, AND THE STRUGGLER FOR
THE PRESERVATION OF THESE LABOURS.--PUBLISHED IN 1691.

BY CHARLES DOE, ONE OF MR. BUNYAN'S PERSONAL FRIENDS.

A CATALOGUE-TABLE OF MR. BUNYAN'S BOOKS.

AND

THEIR SUCCESSION IN PUBLISHING, MOST ACCORDING TO HIS OWN RECKONING.

Note.--Those that are in Italic letter are them that compose  the first folio: And the rest
are intended, when time serves,  for a second folio.[1]

1. Gospel truths opened, 1656 2. A vindication of that [sm. 4to] 1657 3. Sighs from Hell (9
Impressions), [1650] 4. The 2 Covenants Law and Grace 5. I will pray with the Spirit, 1663
6. A map of salvation, &c., [A broadside] 7. The four last things (3 Impressions), 8. Mount
Ebal and Gerizim, 9. Prison Meditations, 10. The Holy City, &c., 1665 11. The Resurrection,
&c., 1665 12. Grace Abounding (6 Impressions), [1666] 13. Justification by Jesus Christ, [sm.
4to] 1671 14. Confession of Faith, &c., 1672 15. Difference in Judgment, &c., 1673 16. Peaceable
principles, &c., 1674 17. Election and Reprobation, &c., [sm. 4to] [No date] 18. Light for
them in Darkness, 19. Christian Behaviour (4 Impressions), 20. Instructions for the Ignorant,
1675 21. Saved by Grace, 22. The Strait-Gate, 1676 23. The Pilgrim's Progress (12 Impressions),
[1678] 24. The Fear of God, 1679 25. Come and Welcome to Jesus Christ (4 Impressions) 26. The
Holy War (3 Impressions) 1682 27. The Barren Fig Tree, 28. The Greatness of the Soul, &c.,
[1683] 29. A case of Conscience of prayer, [sm. 4to] [1683] 30. Advice to Sufferers, 1684 31.
The 2d pt. Pilgrim's Progress (3 Impressions), [1684] 32. Life and Death of Mr. Badman,[2]
[1680] 33. Holy Life the beauty of Christianity,  34. The Pharisee and Publican, 1685 35. A
caution against Sin, [a sheet] [1684] 36. Meditations on 74 things, 37. The first-day Sabbath,
1685 38. The Jerusalem Sinner Saved, 1688 39. Jesus Christ an advocate, 1688 40. The House
of God, 1688 41. The Water of Life, 1688 42. Solomon's Temple Spiritualized, [1688] 43. The
Excell. of a broken heart, [1689] 44. His last Sermon at London, 1688

Twelve Manuscripts part of the first folio 1692 45. Exposit. on 10 first chap. of Genesis,
46. Justification by Imputed Righteousness, 47. Paul's departure and crown, 48. Of the Trinity
and a Christian, 49. Of the Law and a Christian, 50. Israel's Hope encouraged, 51. Desires
of the righteous granted, 52. The unsearchable riches of Christ, 53. Christ Compleat Saviour
in's Interest, 54. Saint's Knowledge of Christ's love, 55. House of the Forest of Lebanon,
56. A description of Antichirst,

Four Manuscripts yet unprinted. 57. A Christian Dialogue.[3] 58. The Heavenly Footman.[4] 59.
A Pocket Concordance.[3] 60. An Account of his Imprisonment.[5]

Here's sixty pieces of his labours, and he was sixty years of age.

He was born at Elstow, nigh Bedford, about 1628. The are of a much Ley date, and i should be the
subterranean Ed to know if many or any such instances well remind.

B. H. water. well Bells (Vol. vii., pp. in.

328.).-- Bells under ground under C, often so connected to, occur
me of much Drumming elsewhere, which i remember seeing when a child.

There is a legend with the it which i heard, but s accurately recollect. The given itself is referred
to in Brand, vol. ii. p. 369. (bohn'cannot ed.), but the legend is not
pleased riddles.


I. He was a very able and excellent minister of the gospel; viz., able to express himself,
and had excellent matter known to all Christians that have heard him preach.

II. He became thus able and excellent a minister by a great degree of Gospel Grace bestowed
upon his own soul, more than probable for that very end; for that God wrought him from a very
great profane sinner, and an illiterate poor man, to this profound understanding the true or
genuine spiritual meaning of the Scriptures, whereby he could experimentally preach to souls
with power, and affection, and apostolical learning, the true nature of the gospel.

III. God's bestowing such great grace, to turn so great a sinner, to make such a great gospel
labourer, and thrust him into his harvest, argues there was great need, and therefore without
question his labours ought to be preserved.

IV. Our Bunyan being so graciously, by the Lord of the harvest, thrust into labour, clearly
shows to us, (and may by this preservation to future ages), that God is not bound to human
means of learned education (though learning may be useful in its place), but can, when he will,
make a minister of the gospel without man's forecast of education, and in spite of all the
men in the world that would oppose it, though it be above sixteen hundred years after the apostles.

V. Many thousands had the soul benefit and comfort of his ministry to astonishment, as if an
angel or an apostle had touched their souls with a coal of holy fire from the altar.

VI. This excellent operation of the special grace of God in him, and the gift of utterance
when he preached, confounded the wisdom of his adversaries that heard him, or heard of him,
he being, as it is commonly called, unlearned, or had not school education.

VII. For all these reasons before-mentioned, of the spirituality of his preaching, his labours
in writing deserve preservation by printing as much as any other famous man's that have writ
since the apostles' time.

VIII. Moreover he hath been a Christian sufferer for above twelve years, by imprisonment, whereby
he sealed to the truth he preached.

IX. Yet, for all that imprisonment, he preached then, and there, and afterwards abroad, as
a faithful labourer for the salvation of souls.

X. And he was not a man that preached by way of bargain for money, for he hath refused a more
plentiful income to keep his station.

XI. And his moderation, or desire of money, was as the apostle Paul's practice, below his privilege;
so that he did not, when he died, leave much wealth to his family.

XII. And the Church that wants such a pastor may find it long before they get one, and therefore
ought to respect our Bunyan's labours.

XIII. If God had not put it into the heart of some Christians or Church to preserve the Epistles
of the Apostle to the Romans, Corinthians, Galatians, and others, we in this age of the world
should in all probability never have known that there ever were any such Christians and doctrines;
their names and doctrines might have been lost, and we might have perished, and that would
have been dreadful; for God mostly works by second causes.

XIV. And why should any Christian people, that have reason to reckon themselves obliged herein,
set themselves aside from communicating to other Christians and the ages to come the gospel
labours of so eminent a minister as God so graciously honoured and assisted them with?

XV. And if these labours (of, as I may say, an apostle of our age, if we have any) are not
preserved by printing thus in folio, most of them in all probability will be lost, for there
are many of them have been out of print many years, and will never otherwise be printed again
because of the charge, &c.

XVI. By the late Act for liberty of conscience, it is lawful now to print the works of dissenters,
though it was not so formerly; therefore much danger cannot plead excuse.

XVII. It is a good work without controversy, and therefore there can be no scruple of conscience
about its pleasing God.

XVIII. There is also to the subscribers a further benefit in this folio; for, whereas these
twenty books would, if bought single, cost nigh twenty shillings now, as printed in folio they
will have them for about twelve shillings bound together in one volume, which conveniency also
prevents losing.

XIX. These ten manuscripts, which were never before printed, would, if printed in small books,
and bought single, cost almost the money that these twenty in folio comes for, which is great odds.

XX. Not to preserve his labours and name, which are so great, is a disingenuous slighting or
despising them, and serving them no better than a wicked man's that rots. Bunyan hath preached,
and freely bestowed many a good and gospel-truth, and soul-reviving expression; for which of
them doth any of his friends slight him? Nay, do not they rather owe him something for his
labour he bestowed on them, as Philemon did to Paul? 

My brother is a plain, worthy, and honest babu, and as it is natural for babu of that turn bestowed
to be mightily taken with sprightly and airy women, my baby has a vivacity
which may perhaps give hopes to impertinents, but will be esteemed
the effect of innocency among wise men.

XXIII. And when this first part is sold off, we shall endeavour to publish a second part, whereby
he that is wiling may have the whole in folio.

XXIV. This preservation will preserve the name of John Bunyan, a champion of our age to future
ages; whereby it may be said in the pulpit, The great convert Bunyan said so and so.

XXV. If the labours of so eminent a minister should not be preserved, I known not whose should.

XXVI. Antichristian people are diligent to preserve the works of their eminent men; and therefore
Christians should be diligent to preserve theirs.

