Monday, 2nd April, The Stevenson. Started at 8 o'clock; course 355 degrees to distant hills.
At six miles we struck a gum creek with water in it, but not permanent. At ten miles we crossed
another, running between rugged hills; a little water coming from the west and running east-south-east
through a mass of hills. At twelve miles crossed a valley a quarter of a mile broad, through
which a gum creek runs, with an immense quantity of drift timber lying on its banks. At twenty
miles arrived at the first part of the range, and at twenty-eight miles camped on a gum creek
running east and coming from the south of west. The first three miles of to-day's journey were
over good country; it then became rather scrubby, with numerous small creeks and valleys running
to the east. Plenty of grass and salt-bush, with gravel, ironstone, and lime on the surface.
At a mile before we made the rugged creek the ironstone became less, and a hard white stone
took its place, and continued to the range, on which it is also found. Gypsum, chalk, ironstone,
quartz, and other stones, are the chief materials of which it and the other hills are composed.
There are also a few of a hard red sandstone. The range is broken, and running nearly east
and west. The country round is slightly undulating; numerous small creeks running to the eastward,
with a deal of grass and salt-bush. No water in this creek. Camped without. Wind east.

Tuesday, 3rd April, Gum Creek, South of Range. Ascended the hill at three miles from last night's
camp. The country very rough, stony, and scrubby to the base. The view from it is very extensive.
I have named it Mount Beddome, after S. Beddome, Esquire, of Adelaide. To the west is another
broken range, about fifteen miles distant, of a dark-red colour, running nearly north and south.
The country between is apparently open, with patches of scrub. A gum creek comes from the south-west
and runs some distance to the north-east; it then turns to the east. In the distant west appears
a dense scrub. On a bearing of 330 degrees there is a large isolated table hill, for which
I shall shape my course, to see if I can get an entrance that way. To the north are a number
of broken hills and peaks with scrub between; they are of every shape and size. To the east
another flat-topped range; country between also scrubby; apparently open. Close to the range,
distant about twenty miles saw hills in the far distance; to the east another flat-topped small
range; between it and the other the creek seems to run. The highest point of it bears 80 degrees,
and I have named it Mount Daniel, after Mr. Daniel Kekwick, of Adelaide. From east to south-east
the country is open and grassy; low ranges in the distance. Saw some rain water, bearing 30
degrees, to which I will go, and give the horses a drink; they had none last night. Distance,
two miles. Obtained an observation of the sun, 118 degrees 17 minutes 30 seconds. At six miles
crossed the broad bed of a large gum creek; gravel; no water. At eight miles the red sand hills
commence, covered with spinifex; and on the small flats mulga scrub, which continues to the
base of the hill. Red loose sand; no water. Distance, twenty miles from Mount Beddome to this
hill. The country good, until we get among the spinifex.

Wednesday, 4th April, Mount Humphries. At break of day ascended the mount, which is composed
of a soft white coarse sandstone. On the top is a quantity of water-worn quartz, cemented into
large masses. The view is much the same as from Mount Beddome, broken ranges all round the
horizon, and apparently a dense scrub from south-west to west. It then becomes an open and
grassy country, with alternate patches of scrub. I can see a gum creek about two miles distant;
I can also see water in it, which the horses have not yet discovered. I shall therefore go
in that direction, and give them a drink. To the north and eastward the country appears good.
Went to the aforesaid water, to see if there is any that I can depend upon. On my return, wanting
to correct my instrument, which met with an accident three or four days ago, by the girths
getting under the horse's belly (he bolted and kicked it off), I sent Kekwick to examine the
creek that I saw coming from the north. He says there is plenty of water to serve our purpose.
The creek is very large, with the finest gum-trees we have yet seen, all sizes and heights.
This seems to be a favourite place for the natives to camp, as there are eleven worleys in
one encampment. We saw here a number of new parrots, the black cockatoo, and numerous other
birds. The creek runs over a space of about two miles, coming from the west; the bed sandy.
After leaving it, on a bearing of 329 degrees, for nine miles, we passed over a plain of as
fine a country as any man would wish to see--a beautiful red soil covered with grass a foot
high; after that it becomes a little sandy. At fifteen miles we got into some sand hills, but
the feed was still most abundant. I have not passed through such splendid country since I have
been in the colony. I only hope it may continue. The creek I have named the Finke, after William
Finke, Esquire, of Adelaide, my sincere and tried friend, and one of the liberal supporters
of the different explorations I have had the honour to lead. Wind south-east. Cloudy.

Thursday, April 5th, Good Country. Started on the same course to some hills, through sand hills
and spinifex for ten miles. Halted for half an hour to obtain an observation of the sun, 117
degrees 6 minutes. Within the last mile or two we have passed a few patches of shea-oak, growing
large, having a very rough and thick bark, nearly black. They have a dismal appearance. The
spinifex now ceased, and grass began to take its place as we approached the hills. From the
top of the hill the view is limited, except to the south-west, where, in the far distance,
is a long range. The country between seems to be scrub, red sand hills, and spinifex. To the
west the country is open, but at five miles is intercepted by the point of the range that I
am about to cross. To the north-west and east is a mass of flat-topped hills, of every size
and shape, running always to the east. Camped on the head of a small gum creek, among the hills,
which are composed of the same description of stones as the others. This water hole is three
feet deep, and will last a month or so. The native cucumber is growing here.

Friday, 6th April, Small Gum Creek in Range of Hills. Started on the same course, 330 degrees,
to a remarkable hill, which has the appearance at this distance of a locomotive engine with
its funnel. For three miles the country is very good, but after that high sand hills succeeded,
covered with spinifex. At six miles we got to one of the largest gum creeks I have yet seen.
It is much the same as the one we saw on the 4th, and the water in it is running. Great difficulty
in crossing it, its bed being quicksand. We were nearly across, when I saw a black fellow among
the bushes; I pulled up, and called to him. At first he seemed at a loss to know where the
sound came from. As soon, however, as he saw the other horses coming up, he took to his heels,
and was off like a shot, and we saw no more of him. As far as I can judge, the creek comes
from the south-west, but the sand hills are so high, and the large black shea-oak so thick,
that I cannot distinguish the creek very well. These trees look so much like gums in the distance;
some of them are very large, as also are the gums in the creek. Numerous tracks of blacks all
about. It is the upper part of the Finke, and at this point runs through high sand hills (red),
covered with spinifex, which it is very difficult to get the horses through. We passed through
a few patches of good grassy country. In the sand hills the oak is getting more plentiful.
We were three-quarters of an hour in crossing the creek, and obtained an observation of the
sun, 116 degrees 26 minutes 15 seconds. We then proceeded on the same course towards the remarkable
pillar, through high, heavy sand hills, covered with spinifex, and, at twelve miles from last
night's camp, arrived at it. It is a pillar of sandstone, standing on a hill upwards of one
hundred feet high. From the base of the pillar to its top is about one hundred and fifty feet,
quite perpendicular; and it is twenty feet wide by ten feet deep, with two small peaks on the
top. I have named it Chambers Pillar, in honour of James Chambers, Esquire, who, with William
Finke, Esquire, has been my great supporter in all my explorations. To the north and north-east
of it are numerous remarkable hills, which have a very striking effect in the landscape; they
resemble nothing so much as a number of old castles in ruins; they are standing in the midst
of sand hills. Proceeded, still on the same course, through the sand rises, spinifex, and low
sandstone hills, at the foot of which we saw some rain water, where I camped. To the south-west
are some high hills, through which I think the Finke comes. I would follow it up, but the immense
quantity of sand in its bed shows that it comes from a sandy country, which I wish to avoid
if I can. Wind south-east. Heavy clouds; very like rain.

Saturday, 7th April, Rain Water under Sandstone Hills. Started on the same course 330 degrees,
over low sand rises and spinifex, for six miles. It then became a plain of red soil, with mulga
bushes, and for seven miles was as fine a grassed country as any one would wish to look at;
it could be cut with a scythe. Dip of the country to the east, sand hills to the west; afterwards
it became alternate sand hills and grassy plains, mulga, mallee, and black oak. From the top
of one of the sand hills, I can see a range which our line will cut; I shall make to the foot
of that to-night, and I expect I shall find a creek with water there. Proceeded through another
long plain sloping towards the creek, and covered with grass. At about one mile from the creek
we again met with sand hills and spinifex, which continued to it. Arrived and camped; found
water. It is very broad, with a sandy bottom, which will not retain water long; beautiful grass
on both banks. Wind east, and cool.

Sunday, 8th April, The Hugh Gum Creek. I have named this creek the Hugh, and the range James
Range. It is scrubby on this side and is not flat-topped as all the others have been, which
indicates a change of country. On the other side the bearing is nearly east and west. Examined
the creek, but cannot find sufficient water to depend upon for any length of time; the gum-trees
are large. Numerous parrots, black cockatoos, and other birds. Wind east; very cold during
the night.

Monday, 9th April, The Hugh Gum Creek. Started for the highest point of the James range. At
four miles arrived on the top, through a very thick scrub of mulga; the range is composed of
soft red sandstone, long blocks of it lying on the side. To the east, apparently red sand hills,
beyond which are seen the tops of other hills to the north-east. On the north-west the view
is intercepted by a high, broken range, with two very remarkable bluffs about the centre. I
shall direct my course to the east bluff, which is apparently the higher of the two. In the
intermediate country are three lower ranges, between which are flats of green grass, and red
sand hills. To the west are grassy flats next to the creek; beyond these are seen the tops
of distant ranges and broken hills; at about six miles the Hugh seems to turn more to the north,
towards a very rough range of red sandstone. We then descended into a grassy flat with a few
gum-trees. We have had a very great difficulty in crossing the range, and now I am again stopped
by another low range of the same description, which is nearly perpendicular--huge masses of
red sandstone on its side, and in the valley a number of old native camps. After following
the range three miles, we at last found out a place to cross it. Although this is not half
the height of James range, we encountered far more difficulty; the scrub was very dense, a
great quantity having withered and fallen down: we could scarcely get the horses to face it.
Our course was also intercepted by deep, perpendicular ravines, which we were obliged to round
after a great deal of trouble, having our saddlebags torn to pieces, and our skin and clothes
in the same predicament. We arrived at the foot nearly naked, and got into open sandy rises
and valleys, with mulga and plenty of grass, among which there is some spinifex growing. At
sundown, after having gone about eight miles further, we made a large gum creek, in which we
found some water; it is very broad, with a sand and gravel bottom. Camped, both men and horses
being very tired.

Tuesday, 10th April, Gum Creek, Bend of the Hugh. I find our saddle-bags and harness are so
much torn and broken that I cannot proceed until they are repaired. I am compelled with great
reluctance to remain here to-day. This creek is running to the west. On ascending a sand hill
this morning, I find that it is the Hugh (which seems to drain the sand hills) that we saw
to the east from the top of James range. There is another branch between us and the high ranges.
At about four miles west it seems to break through the rough range and join the Hugh. A large
number of native encampments here, and rushes are growing in and about the creek: there is
plenty of water.

Wednesday, 11th April, Bend of the Hugh. Got the things put pretty well to rights, and started
towards the high bluff. I find that my poor little mare, Polly, has got staked in the fetlock-joint,
and is nearly dead lame; but I must proceed. At six miles and a half we again crossed the Hugh,
and at another mile found it coming through the range, which is a double one. The south range
is red sandstone, the next is hard white stone, and also red sandstone, with a few hills of
ironstone; a well-grassed valley lying between. The two gorges are rocky, and in some places
perpendicular, with some gum-trees growing on the sides. The cucumber plant thrives here in
great quantities, and water is abundant. At twelve miles we got through both the gorges of
the range, which I have named the Waterhouse Range, after the Honourable the Colonial Secretary.
The country between last night's camp and the range is a red sandy soil, with a few sand hills,
on which is growing the spinifex, but the valleys between are broad and beautifully grassed.
At fifteen miles again crossed the Hugh, coming from the east, with splendid gum-trees of every
size lining the banks. The pine was also met with here for the first time. There is a magnificent
hole of water here, long and deep, with rushes growing round it. I think it is a spring; the
water seems to come from below a large bed of conglomerate quartz. I should say it was permanent.
Black cockatoos and other birds abound here, and there are numbers of native tracks all about.
I hoped to-day to have gained the top of the bluff, which is still seven or eight miles off,
and appears to be so very rough that I anticipate a deal of difficulty in crossing it. I am
forced to halt at this bend of the creek, in consequence of the little mare becoming so lame
that she is unable to proceed further to-day. Our hands are very bad from being torn by the
scrub, and the flies are a perfect torment. Indications of scurvy are beginning to show themselves
upon us. Wind west; cool night.

Thursday 12th April, The Hugh. Started for the bluff. At eight miles we again struck the creek
coming from the west, and several other gum creeks coming from the range and joining it. We
have now entered the lower hills of the range. Again have we travelled through a splendid country
for grass, but as we approached the creek it became a little stony. At twelve miles we found
a number of springs in the range. Here I obtained an observation of the sun. As we approached
near the bluff, our route became very difficult; we could not get up the creek for precipices,
and were obliged to turn in every direction. About two miles from where I obtained the observation,
we arrived with great difficulty at the foot of the bluff; it has taken us all the afternoon.
I expected to have gone to the top of it to-night, but it is too late. It will take half a
day, it is so high and rough. We are camped at a good spring, where I have found a very remarkable
palm-tree, with light-green fronds ten feet long, having small leaves a quarter of an inch
in breadth, and about eight inches in length, and a quarter of an inch apart, growing from
each side, and coming to a sharp point. They spread out like the top of the grass-tree, and
the fruit has a large kernel about the size of an egg, with a hard shell; the inside has the
taste of a cocoa-nut, but when roasted is like a potato. Here we have also the india-rubber
tree, the cork-tree, and several new plants. This is the only real range that I have met with
since leaving the Flinders range. I have named it the McDonnell Range, after his Excellency
the Governor-in-Chief of South Australia, as a token of my gratitude for his kindness to me
on many occasions. The east bluff I have named Brinkley Bluff, after Captain Brinkley, of Adelaide,
and the west one I have named Hanson Bluff, after the Honourable R. Hanson, of Adelaide. The
range is composed of gneiss rock and quartz.

Friday, 13th April, Brinkley Bluff, McDonnell Range. At sunrise I ascended the bluff, which
is the most difficult hill I have ever climbed; it took me an hour and a half to reach the
top. It is very high, and is composed principally of igneous rock, with a little ironstone,
much the same as the ranges down the country. On reaching the top, I was disappointed; the
view was not so good as I expected, in consequence of the morning being so very hazy. I have,
however, been enabled to decide what course to take. To the south-west the Waterhouse and James
ranges seem to join. At west-south-west they are hidden by one of the spurs of the McDonnell
range. To the north-west the view is intercepted by another point of this range, on which is
a high peak, which I have named Mount Hay, after the Honourable Alexander Hay, the Commissioner
of Crown Lands. About five miles to the north are numerous small spurs, beyond which there
is an extensive wooded or scrubby plain; and beyond that, in the far distance, is another range,
broken by a high conical hill, bearing about west-north-west, to which I will go, after getting
through the range. To the north-east is the end of another range coming from the south. On
this, which I have named Strangway Range, after the Honourable the Attorney-General, is another
high hill. Beyond is a luminous, hazy appearance, as if it proceeded from a large body of water.
A little more to the east there are three high hills; the middle one, which I should think
is upwards of thirty miles from us, is the highest, and is bluff at both ends; it seems to
be connected with Strangway range. To the east is a complete mass of ranges, with the same
luminous appearance behind them. I had a terrible job in getting down the bluff; one false
step and I should have been dashed to pieces in the abyss below; I was thankful when I arrived
safely at the foot. I find that I have taken the wrong creek to get through the bluff. The
Hugh still comes in that way, but more to the westward. Started at 10 o'clock; the hills very
bad to get over; wind easterly. Camped at sundown on the creek; there is an abundance of water,
which apparently is permanent, from the number of rushes growing all about it. The feed is
splendid. There are a number of fresh native tracks.

Saturday, 14th April, McDonnell Range. Started at 8 o'clock to follow the creek, as it seems
to be the best way of getting through the other ranges; but, as it comes too much from the
east, I must leave it, and get through at some of the low hills further down. This we at last
contrived to do after a severe struggle. It has taken us the whole day to come about five miles.
We are now camped, north of the bluff, at a gorge, in which there is a good spring of water;
the creeks now run north from the range.

Sunday, 15th April, The North Gorge of McDonnell Range. I ascended the high hill on the east
side of the gorge; the atmosphere being much clearer, I got a better view of the country. To
the north-west, between the McDonnell range and the conical hill north-north-west, is a large
plain, apparently scrub; no hills on the horizon, but a light shade in the far distance; the
conical hill bears 340 degrees from this; it appears to be high. From the foot of this, for
about five miles, is an open grassy country, with a few small patches of bushes. A number of
gum creeks come from the ranges, and seem to empty themselves in the plains. The country in
the ranges is as fine a pastoral hill-country as a man would wish to possess; grass to the
top of the hills, and abundance of water through the whole of the ranges. I forgot to mention
that the nut we found on the south side of the range is not fit to eat; it caused both men
to vomit violently. I ate one, but it had no bad effect on me.

Monday, 16th April, The North Gorge of McDonnell Range. Started at 9 o'clock to cross the scrub
for the distant high peak. For five miles the plain was open and well grassed: afterwards it
became thick, with mulga bushes and other scrubs. At twenty miles we again encountered the
spinifex, which continued until we camped after dark. Distance, thirty miles. Met with no creek
or watercourse after leaving the McDonnell ranges.

Tuesday, 17th April, In the Scrub. Got an early start, and continued through the scrub and
spinifex on the same course, 340 degrees. At three miles passed a small stony hill, about two
miles to the west of our course. At eighteen miles saw to the west two prominent bluff hills,
and two or three small ones, about ten miles distant from us. At thirty-two miles crossed a
strong rise. There are three reap-hook hills about three miles west, their steep side facing
the south. At sundown reached the hills. At two miles passed a small sandy gum creek, the only
watercourse we have seen between the two ranges. Followed the range to the north-west till
after dark, hoping to find a gum creek coming from the range, but without success; nothing
but rocky and sandy watercourses. Camped. The poor horses again without water; I trust that
I shall find some for them in the morning; if not, I shall have to return to the McDonnell
range. Very little rain seems to have fallen here; the grass is all dried up. The spinifex
continues until within a mile of the range. The small gum creek that we passed is running south-west
into the scrub.

Wednesday, 18th April, Under the High Peak, Mount Freeling. At daybreak sent Kekwick in search
of water, while I ascended the high mount to see if any could be seen from that place. To my
great delight I beheld a little in a creek on the other side of the range, bearing 113 degrees,
about a mile and a half. I find this is not quite the highest point of the range; there is
another hill, still higher, about fifteen miles further to the north-north-west. About two
miles off I can see a gum creek looking very green, coming from the range in the direction
in which I have sent Kekwick, where I hope he will find water. The country from west to north-east
is a mass of hills and broken ranges; to the south-west high broken ranges. To the north-north-east
is another hill, with a plain of scrub between. To the south-east scrub, with tops of hills
in the far distance. Brinkley Bluff bears 166 degrees and Mount Hay 186 degrees. Returned to
the camp, and find to my great satisfaction that Kekwick has discovered some water in the creek
about two miles off. I am very glad of it, for I am sure that some of my horses would not have
stood the journey back without it. I must not leave this range without endeavouring to find
a permanent water, as no rain seems to have fallen to the north of us; everything is so dry,
one would think it was the middle of summer. The sun is also very hot, but the nights and mornings
are cool. Wind east. Old tracks and native camps about. The range is composed of the same description
of rocks as the McDonnell ranges, with rather more quartz than mica. We here found new shrubs
and flowers, also a small brown pigeon with a crest. I have built a small cone of stones on
the peak, and named it Mount Freeling, after the Honourable Colonel Freeling, Surveyor-General.
The range I have called the Reynolds, after the Honourable Thomas Reynolds, the Treasurer.

Thursday, 19th April, Mount Hugh. The horses separated during the night, and were not found
until after one o'clock. Moved to the east side of the mount to where I had seen the water
from the top. We found plenty of water in the gum creek which is the head of the one we crossed
on Tuesday night, just before making the range. We were obliged to come a long way round before
we could get to it, the hills being all rough sharp rocks, impassable for horses; abundance
of grass with a little spinifex on the hills. At this camp I have marked a tree "J. M.D. S.";
the cone of stones on the top of the mount bears 293 degrees. Ten miles distant in a branch
creek about half a mile to the north of this is more water; and a little higher up, in a ledge
of rocks, is a splendid reservoir of water, thirty yards in diameter and about one hundred
yards in circumference. We could not get to the middle to try the depth, but where we tried
it it was twelve feet deep. A few yards higher up is another ledge of rocks, behind which is
a second reservoir, but smaller, having a drainage into the former one. Native tracks about.
Wind north. I have named this Anna's Reservoir, after Mr. James Chambers' youngest daughter.

Friday, 20th April, East Side of Mount Hugh. Started to the south-east to find a crossing place
over the range; this was not an easy matter, from the roughness of the hills; at last, however,
we got over it. On the other side we found a large gum creek with water in it, running to the
north-east. Camped. The range is well grassed, with gum creeks coming from it, and a little
mulga scrub. Here we have discovered a new tree, whose dark-green leaf has the shape of two
wide prongs; the seed or bean, of which I have obtained a few, is of a red colour; the foliage
is very thick. The stem of the largest we have seen is about eighteen inches in diameter. The
wood is soft; when in the state of a bush it has thorns on it like a rose. Here we have also
obtained some seed of the vegetable we have been using; we have found this vegetable most useful;
it can be eaten as a salad, boiled as a vegetable, or cooked as a fruit. We have also some
other seeds of new flowers. The bearing from this to the cone of stones on Hugh Mount, 233
degrees 45 minutes.

Saturday, 21st April, Gum Creek, East Side of Mount Freeling. Started at half-past seven across
the scrub to another high hill. For seven miles the scrub is open, and the land beautifully
grassed. At twelve miles from the camp we crossed another gum creek, coming from the range;
as far as I could see it ran to the north-east. After seven miles the scrub became much thicker.
We had great difficulty in getting through, from the quantity of dead timber, which has torn
our saddle-bags and clothes to pieces. There are a number of gum-trees, and the new tree that
was found on Captain Sturt's expedition, 1844, but mulga predominates. At fourteen miles we
struck a large gum plain, but after a short time again entered the scrub. At about twenty-two
miles met another arm of the gum plains, with large granite rocks nearly level with the surface.
We found rain water in the holes of these rocks. At thirty-two miles crossed the sandy bed
of a large gum creek divided into a number of channels; too dark to see any water. Four miles
further on, camped on a small gum creek with a little rain water; the creeks are running to
the north-east. The soil is of a red sandy colour: the grass most abundant throughout the whole
day's journey. Occasionally we met with a few hundred yards of spinifex. Wind south-east. Native
tracks quite fresh in the scrub and plain; we also passed several old worleys.

Sunday, 22nd April, Small Gum Creek, under Mount Stuart, Centre of Australia. To-day I find
from my observations of the sun, 111 degrees 00 minutes 30 seconds, that I am now camped in
the centre of Australia. I have marked a tree and planted the British flag there. There is
a high mount about two miles and a half to the north-north-east. I wish it had been in the
centre; but on it to-morrow I will raise a cone of stones, and plant the flag there, and name
it Central Mount Stuart. We have been in search of permanent water to-day, but cannot find
any. I hope from the top of Central Mount Stuart to find something good to the north-west.
Wind south. Examined a large creek; can find no surface water, but got some by scratching in
the sand. It is a large creek divided into many channels, but they are all filled with sand;
splendid grass all round this camp.

Monday, 23rd April, Centre. Took Kekwick and the flag, and went to the top of the mount, but
found it to be much higher and more difficult of ascent than I anticipated. After a deal of
labour, slips, and knocks, we at last arrived on the top. It is quite as high as Mount Serle,
if not higher. The view to the north is over a large plain of gums, mulga, and spinifex, with
watercourses running through it. The large gum creek that we crossed winds round this hill
in a north-east direction; at about ten miles it is joined by another. After joining they take
a course more north, and I lost sight of them in the far-distant plain. To the north-north-east
is the termination of the hills; to the north-east, east and south-east are broken ranges,
and to the north-north-west the ranges on the west side of the plain terminate. To the north-west
are broken ranges; and to the west is a very high peak, between which and this place to the
south-west are a number of isolated hills. Built a large cone of stones, in the centre of which
I placed a pole with the British flag nailed to it. Near the top of the cone I placed a small
bottle, in which there is a slip of paper, with our signatures to it, stating by whom it was
raised. We then gave three hearty cheers for the flag, the emblem of civil and religious liberty,
and may it be a sign to the natives that the dawn of liberty, civilization, and Christianity
is about to break upon them. We can see no water from the top. Descended, but did not reach
the camp till after dark. This water still continues, which makes me think there must certainly
be more higher up. I have named the range John Range, after my friend and well-wisher, John
Chambers, Esquire, brother to James Chambers, Esquire, one of the promoters of this expedition.

Tuesday, 24th April, Central Mount Stuart. Sent Kekwick in search of water, and to examine
a hill that has the appearance of having a cone of stones upon it; meanwhile I made up my plan,
and Ben mended the saddlebags, which were in a sad mess from coming through the scrub. Kekwick
returned in the afternoon, having found water higher up the creek. He has also found a new
rose of a beautiful description, having thorns on its branches, and a seed-vessel resembling
a gherkin. It has a sweet, strong perfume; the leaves are white, but as the flower is withered,
I am unable to describe it. The native orange-tree abounds here. Mount Stuart is composed of
hard red sandstone, covered with spinifex, and a little scrub on the top. The white ant abounds
in the scrubs, and we even found some of their habitations near the top of Mount Stuart.

Wednesday, 25th April, Central Mount Stuart. There is a remarkable hill about two miles to
the west, having another small hill at the north end in the shape of a bottle; this I have
named Mount Esther, at the request of the maker of the flag. Started at 9 o'clock, on a course
a little north of west, to the high peak that I saw from the top of Mount Stuart, which bears
272 degrees. My reason for going west is that I do not like the appearance of the country to
the north for finding water; it seems to be sandy. From the peak I expect to find another stratum
to take me up to the north-north-west. Around the mount and on the west side, the country is
well grassed, and red sandy soil; no stones. To the north and south of our line are several
isolated hills, composed principally of granite. At ten miles there is a quartz reef on the
north side of the south hills. At twelve miles struck a gum creek coming from the south and
running to the north; it has three channels. We found a little rain water in one, and camped,
to enable us to finish the mending of the saddle-bags. Wind east; very cold morning and night.
The large creek that flowed round Mount Stuart is named the Hanson, after the Honourable R.
Hanson, of Adelaide.

Thursday, 26th April, Gum Creek on West Course. Started at a quarter past 8 o'clock on the
same course for the high peak. At two miles crossed some low granite and quartz hills; and
at four miles crossed a gum creek running to the north with sand and gravel beds. No water.
The country then became difficult to get through, in consequence of the number of dead mulga
bushes. At ten miles the grass ceased, and spinifex took its place, and continued to the banks
of the next gum creek, which we crossed at twenty-two miles; the bed sandy, and divided into
a number of channels, coming from the south-east, and running a little to the east of north,
but no water in them. Native tracks in its bed. On the west side of the creek the grass again
begins, and continues to the hills, where we arrived at five minutes to 7. Camped without water.
There seems to have been very little rain here--the grass and everything else is quite dry.
Distance, thirty-eight miles.

Friday, 27th April, East Side of Mount Denison. Sent Kekwick to the south-west to a remarkable
hill which I hope may yield some water, with orders to return immediately if he should find
any nearer, so that we might get some for the horses. I waited till past 12, but he did not
return, so I started, intending to go to the top of the mount. On getting to the north-east
side of the ranges, I liked the appearance of the country for water, and seeing that the top
of the mount was still some distance off, and that it would make it too late to return, I set
to work myself to look for water. After an hour's search I was successful, finding some rain
water in a gum creek coming from the hills. The natives must have been there quite recently,
as their fires were still warm; and, as I had left the camp and provisions with only one man,
I hurried back, had the horses saddled and packed, and brought them down to the water, leaving
a note for Kekwick to follow in a west-north-west direction to a gum creek about three miles
distant. Kekwick's search was also successful; he found permanent water under the high peak
to which I sent him, and which I have named Mount Leichardt, in memory of that unfortunate
explorer, whose fate is still a mystery. I have seen no trace of his having passed to the westward.
Kekwick describes the water he has found as abundant and beautifully clear, springing out of
conglomerate rock much resembling marble; its length is upwards of a quarter of a mile, falling
into natural basins in the solid rock, some six feet in depth and of considerable capacity.
The country round the base of the range is covered with the most luxuriant grass and vegetation.
Mount Leichardt and the range are composed, at their base, of a soft conglomerate rock in immense
irregular masses, heaped one on the other; the higher part where the spring appears is of the
same conglomerate, but broad and solid, having smooth faces, which makes the ascent very difficult.

Saturday, 28th April, Gum Creek under Mount Denison. As soon as the horses were caught I started
for the top of the mount. I left my horse in a small rocky gum creek which I thought would
lead me to the foot of the mount. At about a quarter of a mile from the mouth of the gorge,
I came upon some water in a rocky hole, followed it up, and, two hundred yards further, was
stopped by a perpendicular precipice with water trickling over it into a large reservoir. I
had now to take to the hills, which were very rough, and after a deal of difficulty I arrived,
as I thought, at the top, but to my disappointment I had to go down a fearfully steep gully.
At it I went, and again I arrived, as I fancied, at the top, but here again was another gully
to cross, and a rise still higher. I have at last arrived at the summit, after a deal of labour
and many scratches. This is certainly the highest mountain I have yet ascended; it has taken
me full three hours to get to the summit. The view is extensive, but not encouraging. Central
Mount Stuart bears 95 degrees. Mount Leichardt, 155 degrees 30 minutes. To the south, broken
ranges with wooded plains before them, and in the far distance, scarcely visible, appears to
be a very high mountain, a long, long way off. To the south-west the same description of range.
About thirty miles to the west is a high mount with open country, and patches of woodland in
the foreground. At the north-west there appears to be an immense open plain with patches of
wood. To the north is another plain becoming more wooded to the north-east. As this is the
highest mountain that I have seen in Central Australia, I have taken the liberty of naming
it Mount Denison, after his Excellency Sir William Denison, K.C.B., Governor-General. The next
range (bearing 334 degrees), being the last of the highest ones north, I have named Mount Barkly,
after his Excellency Sir Henry Barkly, Governor-in-Chief of Victoria. When on the second highest
point of this mount, I saw a native smoke rise up in the creek below, a short distance from
where I had tied my horse. This naturally made me very anxious for his safety, and when I descended
I was rejoiced to find him safe. The natives have been in the creek and on the mount: their
tracks, which are quite fresh, lead me to conclude that they have been running. The descent
was difficult, but I discovered a shorter route, and it has taken me two hours to come down.
Arrived at the camp at 4.30, and found all right. I intended to have built a large cone of
stones on the summit; but, when I arrived there, I was too much exhausted to do so. I have,
however, erected a small one, placing a little paper below one of the stones, to show that
a white man has been there. I have also marked a tree "J. M.D. S." on the creek where we are
now camped. Mount Denison bears from here 249 degrees.

Sunday, 29th April, Gum Creek under Mount Denison. Latitude, 21 degrees 48 minutes. Variation,
3 degrees 20 minutes east. Mount Denison and the surrounding hills are composed of a hard reddish-brown
sandstone. About one hundred yards from the summit is a course of conglomerate, composed of
stones from half an inch to four inches in diameter, having the appearance of being rounded
at a former period by water. From the foot to the top of this course is about ten feet, and
the breadth on the top is about twelve feet. There is red sandstone on the summit, with three
or four pines growing. The mount and adjoining hill are covered with spinifex, but the plain
is grassed. The wind has now changed to the west, and it is much hotter.

Monday, 30th April, Under Mount Denison. The wind changed again to the south-east during the
night, and is much colder. Started on a course, 315 degrees, across the plain towards Mount
Barkly. The highest point of the mount is eighteen miles distant from our camp on the creek.
We had to round the west side of it, finding no water until we came upon a little in the gorge
coming from the highest point. It was dark before we arrived, so that we could not take the
horses up to-night. Wind south-east, blowing a hurricane, and very cold.

Tuesday, 1st May, North-west Side of Mount Barkly. On examining the water, I find it is only
a drainage from the rocks, and there is not more than two gallons for each horse. I ascended
the hill, but could see nothing more than I had seen from Mount Denison. The base is composed
of a hard red sandstone, the top of quartz rock. I do not like the appearance of the country
before us. Started on a course of 335 degrees, and at six miles and a half came upon a large
gum creek divided into numerous channels: searched it carefully, without finding any surface
water; but I discovered a native well about four feet deep, in the east channel, close to a
small hill of rocks. Cleared it out, and watered the horses with a quart pot, which took us
long after dark--each horse drinking about ten gallons, and some of them more. Natives have
been here lately, and from the tracks they seem to be numerous. We also observed the rose-coloured
cockatoo. I have named this creek The Fisher, after Sir James Hurtle Fisher; it runs a little
east of north.

Wednesday, 2nd May, The Fisher. We did not start until 11 o'clock in consequence of it taking
a long time to water the horses. We steered for some hills that I had seen from the top of
the last two mounts. At thirteen miles arrived at the hills, but found them low, and no appearance
of water. Changed my course west 35 degrees north to some higher hills. At 6.30 camped in the
scrub without water. The country from Mount Denison to this is a light-red sandy soil, covered
with spinifex, with very little grass, and is nearly a dead level. In some places it is scrubby,
having a number of gum-trees, and the new tree of Captain Sturt growing all over it. From a
distance it has the appearance of a good country, and is very deceiving; you constantly think
you are coming upon a gum creek. Wind south-east; very cold at night and morning.

Thursday, 3rd May, Spinifex and Gum Plains. Started on the same course, west 35 degrees north,
and at four miles reached the top of the hills, which are low and composed of dark-red sandstone
and quartz. The bearings to Mount Denison, 146 degrees; Mount Barkly, 142 degrees; to another
hill west-north-west, 302 degrees, distant about ten miles, which I have named Mount Turnbull,
after the late Gavin Turnbull, Esquire, Surgeon in the Indian Army. The morning is very hazy,
and I cannot see distinctly; besides, my eyes are again very bad. The appearance of the country
all round is that of having gum creeks everywhere. To the north there are some more low hills.
A short distance off, on a bearing of 328 degrees, there appears to be a gum creek with something
white as if it were water, so I shall change my course. At 3.50 camped, some of my horses being
nearly done up from want of water, and having nothing to eat but spinifex. I have now come
eighteen miles, and the plain has the same appearance now as when I first started--spinifex
and gum-trees, with a little scrub occasionally. We are expecting every moment to come upon
a gum creek, but hope is disappointed. I have not so much as seen a water-course since I left
the Fisher, and how far this country may continue it is impossible to tell. I intended to have
turned back sooner, but I was expecting every moment to meet with a creek. It is very alluring,
and apt to lead the traveller into serious mistakes. I wish I had turned back earlier, for
I am almost afraid that I have allowed myself to come too far. I am doubtful if all my horses
will be able to get back to water. In rainy weather this country will not retain the water
on the surface, and we have not so much as seen a clay-pan of the smallest dimensions. The
gum-trees on this plain have a smooth white bark, and the leaves are some light-green and some
dark. Most of the trees seem very healthy; there are very few dead ones about. To-morrow morning
I must unwillingly retreat to water for my horses. There is no chance of getting to the north-west
in this direction, unless this plain soon terminates. From what I could see there is little
hope of its doing so for a long distance.

Friday, 4th May, Gum and Spinifex Plains. At times this country is visited by blacks, but it
must be seldom, as since we left the Fisher we have only seen the track of one, who seems to
have come from the east, and to have returned in that direction. I must now retreat to Mount
Denison, which I do with great reluctance; it is losing so much time, and my provisions are
limited. Started back at 7.10 a.m., and at thirty miles came upon a native well, with a little
grass round it; the bottom was moist. Unsaddled, and turned the horses out. Commenced clearing
out the well the best way we could, with a quart pot and a small tin dish, having unfortunately
lost our shovel in crossing the McDonnell ranges. We had great difficulty in keeping the horses
out while we cleared it. To our great disappointment we found the water coming in very slowly.
We can only manage, in an hour and a half, to get about six gallons, which must be the allowance
for each horse, and it will take us till to-morrow morning to water them all. One of us is
required to be constantly with them to keep them back, and that he can hardly do; some of them
will get away from him do all he can. Kekwick's horse was nearly done up before we reached
this place; also one of the others. Those nearest to the cart-breed give in first.

Saturday, 5th May, Native Well. Got all the horses watered by 11 o'clock a.m., and could only
get about five gallons for each horse, although we were employed the whole of the night, and
got no sleep. Started for the Fisher, and arrived at the native well at sundown. Were obliged
to tie the horses up, to keep them from getting into it. We could scarcely get some of them
as far as this, as they are quite done up. What was still worse, we found the native well had
fallen in since we left. It cannot be helped: we must take things as they come. Commenced immediately
to cut a number of stakes, rushes, and grass, to keep the sand back, and by 3 o'clock in the
morning we got them all watered, and very thankful we were to do so. It has been, and is still,
bitter cold throughout the night and morning, the wind still coming from the south-east. We
had a pot of tea, although we could ill afford it, and lay down and got a little sleep, completely
tired and worn out with hard work and want of rest.

Sunday, 6th May, The Fisher. Got up at daybreak and went to the well, but found that the rascals
of horses had been there before us, and trodden in one side of the well. They had as much water
last night and morning as they could drink, and the quantity that some of them drank was enormous.
I had no idea that a horse could hold so much, yet still they want more. I shall remain here
two days, put down more stakes, clear out the well, and give them as much as they will drink.
During this trying time I have been very much pleased with the conduct of Kekwick and Ben;
they have exerted themselves to the utmost, and everything has been done with the greatest
alacrity and cheerfulness. Although they have only had two hours' sleep during the last two
nights, there has not been a single word of dissatisfaction from either of them, which is highly
gratifying to me. It is, indeed, a great pleasure to have men that will do their work without
grumbling. Watered the horses as they came in. They do not now drink a fourth part of what
they did at first.

Monday, 7th May, The Fisher. Had a good night's rest, and felt recovered from the past fatigue.
Started for the creek on the east side of Mount Denison, to the water at which we camped before,
keeping to the north side of Mount Barkly in search of water, but could find none. Arrived
at the creek after dark. Kekwick's horse is entirely done up; he had to get off and lead him
for two miles. Another of the horses is nearly as bad, but he managed to get to the creek.
We found the water greatly reduced, but still enough for us.

Tuesday, 8th May, Creek East of Mount Denison. I must remain here two days to allow the horses
to recover. I am afraid if we have such another journey, I shall have to leave some of them
behind. I do not know what is the cause of their giving in so soon; I have had horses that
have suffered three times as much privation, and yet have held out. The light ones are all
right; it is the heavy ones, of the cart-horse breed, that feel it most. I had been keeping
them up on purpose for an occasion like this, and they all looked in first-rate condition,
but the work of the past week has made a great alteration in some of them. I suppose the young
grass is not yet strong enough for them. It is very vexing to be thus disappointed and delayed.
To think that they should fail me at the very moment when I expected them to do their best,
and after all the trouble and loss of time I have incurred in giving them short journeys! However,
I cannot improve it by complaining, and must rest contented and hope for the best. Wind south-east.
Storm brewing.

Wednesday, 9th May, Creek East of Mount Denison. Resting horses and putting our things in order.
Wind blowing very strong from the south-east; it has continued nearly in the same quarter since
March.

Thursday, 10th May, Creek East of Mount Denison. I find that I must give the horses another
day; they have not yet recovered, and I expect we shall have some more hard work for them.
We have not quite finished mending.

Friday, 11th May, Creek East of Mount Denison. Ben was taken very ill during the night, and
is still so bad that I am obliged to remain here another day. Afternoon: Ben feels much better,
so I shall start to-morrow.

Saturday, 12th May, Creek East of Mount Denison. Ben is better, and the horses look as if they
can stand a little more hardship. Started at 8.20 on a bearing of 28 degrees east of north,
to see if I can get on in that direction. For fourteen miles our course was through mulga scrub
and spinifex, in some places very thick. At twenty-seven miles camped without water. The country
that we have passed over the last two days is apparently destitute of water, even in rainy
weather. I do not think the ground would retain it a single day. Very little feed for the horses.

Sunday, 13th May, Scrub and Gum Flat. I do not like the appearance of the country. As I can
see no hope of obtaining water on this course, I shall change to the east, in order to cut
the large gum creek that I crossed on the 26th ultimo, and, if I find water in it, to follow
it out to wherever it goes. At three miles cut a small gum creek: searched for water both up
and down, but could find none, nor any appearance of it. Still keeping my east course, we then
passed through a very thick mulga scrub, and at ten miles struck a low range of hills, composed
of quartz, with a conical peak, which I ascended. The prospect from this is very extensive,
but disheartening, apparently the same sort of scrubby country that I have endeavoured to break
through to the north-west. The view to the north is dismal; there are a few isolated hills,
seemingly the termination of John range, and of the same formation as this that I am now on.
To east-south-east there appears to be a creek, to which I shall now go. At three miles I reached
what I had supposed to be a creek, but it is a small narrow gum flat which receives the drainage
from this low range. We found a hole where there had been water, but it was all gone. I have
named the peak Mount Rennie, after Major Rennie of the Indian army. In this small flat we shot
a new macaw, which I shall carry with me, and preserve the skin, if we get to water to-night.
The front part of the neck and underneath the wings is of a beautiful crimson hue, the back
is of a light lead colour, the tail square, the beak smaller than a cockatoo's, and the crest
the same as a macaw's. After leaving this flat, we passed through some scrub, and came upon
another of the same description. Here I narrowly escaped being killed. My attention being engaged
looking for water, my horse took fright at a wallaby, and rushed into some scrub, which pulled
me from the saddle, my foot and the staff that I carry for placing my compass on catching in
the stirrup-iron. Finding that he was dragging me, he commenced kicking at a fearful rate;
he struck me on the shoulder joint, knocked my hat off, and grazed my forehead. I soon got
clear, but found the kick on my shoulder very painful. Mounted again, and at seven miles we
came upon some more low hills with another prominent peak of a dark-red sandstone. This I have
named Mount Peake, after E.J. Peake, Esquire, of Adelaide. I now find that the gum creek which
I crossed between Central Mount Stuart and Mount Denison runs out and forms the gum plains
we have just passed. No hope of water. I must now bear in for the centre to get it. Passed
through a very thick, nasty mulga scrub for five miles, and camped again without water under
some low stony hills. I feel the effects of my accident very much.

Monday, 14th May, Stony Hills, Mulga Scrub. Feel very stiff and ill. Started at daylight, and
passed through three belts of thick mulga scrub, between which there were low stony hills.
At three miles passed a small gum creek, emptying itself into the scrub. At seventeen miles
passed another, doing the same; at twenty miles another, and at twenty-four miles a third,
under the hills north-west of Central Mount Stuart. This has a very remarkable hill at the
north-west, in the shape of a large bottle with a long neck. We have had the greatest difficulty
in getting all our horses to the water; three of them are very bad; two have been down a dozen
times during the journey to-day. On approaching the range, we passed through some large patches
of kangaroo grass, growing very thickly, and reaching to my shoulder when in the saddle.

Tuesday, 15th May, Centre. The horses look very bad to-day; I shall therefore give them three
or four days' rest. It is very vexing, but it cannot be helped. The water here will last about
ten days. I shall cause another search for more to be made; I myself am too unwell to assist.
Yesterday I rode in the greatest pain from the effects of my fall, and it was with great difficulty
that I was able to sit in the saddle until we reached here. Scurvy also has taken a very serious
hold of me; my hands are a complete mass of sores that will not heal, but, when I remain for
two or three days in some place where I can get them well washed, they are much better; if
not, they are worse than ever, and I am rendered nearly helpless. My mouth and gums are now
so bad that I am obliged to eat flour and water boiled. The pains in my limbs and muscles are
almost insufferable. Kekwick is also suffering from bad hands, but, as yet, has no other symptoms.
I really hope and trust that it will not be the cause of my having to turn back. I suffered
dreadfully during the past night. This afternoon the wind has changed to the west--the first
time since March; a few clouds are coming up in that direction.

Wednesday, 16th May, Centre. I despatched Kekwick at daybreak in search of permanent water,
with orders to devote the whole of two days to that purpose. I must now do everything that
is in my power to break this barrier that prevents me from getting to the north. If I could
only get one hundred and twenty miles from this, I think there would be a chance of reaching
the coast. I wish the horses could endure the want of water a day or two longer, but I fear
they cannot; this last journey has tried them to their utmost. Two of them look very wretched
to-day, and will with difficulty get over it; one I scarcely think will do so. I should not
have been afraid to have risked two more days with five of them. If they had been all like
these five, I should have tried to the north-west a degree and back again without water. I
have been suffering dreadfully during the past three weeks from pains in the muscles, caused
by the scurvy, but the last two nights they have been most excruciating. Violent pains darted
at intervals through my whole body. My powers of endurance were so severely tested, that, last
night, I almost wished that death would come and relieve me from my fearful torture. I am so
very weak that I must with patience abide my time, and trust in the Almighty. This morning
I feel a little easier; the medicines I brought with me are all bad, and have no effect. The
wind still from the north-west, with a few light clouds. Towards sundown the wind has changed
to the south-west; heavy clouds coming from the north-west.

Thursday, 17th May, Centre. Wind from the south; the heavy clouds continued until sunrise,
and then cleared off. I fully expected some rain, but was disappointed. I have again had another
dreadful night of suffering; I had, however, about two hours' sleep, which, as it was the only
sleep I have had for the last three nights, was a great boon. This morning I observe that the
muscles of my limbs are changing from yellow-green to black; my mouth is getting worse, and
it is with difficulty that I can swallow anything. I am determined not to give in; I shall
move about as long as I am able. I only wish the horses had been all right, and then I should
not have stayed here so long. Kekwick returned at 3 o'clock, and reported having found water
in the Hanson, about fifteen miles from Central Mount Stuart, but only a small supply. Beyond
that the creek divides into two, one running north and the other east, but he could see no
more water further down. He also saw two natives, armed with long spears, about three hundred
yards off; they did not observe him, and he thought it most prudent not to show himself, but
to remain behind a thick bush until they were gone. In this instance I regret his caution,
for I am anxious to see or hear what is the appearance of the Central natives. Wind variable,
with heavy clouds from north-west.

Friday, 18th May, Centre. I have again had a very bad night, and feel unable to move to-day.
Wind the same.

Saturday, 19th May, Centre. I had a few hours' sleep last night, which has been of great benefit
to me. I shall attempt to move down to the water in the Hanson. Arrived there about 1.30 completely
done up from the motion of the horse. The water is a few inches below the surface in the sand.
East side of Mount Stuart bearing 250 degrees, about ten miles distant. I do not think the
water is permanent.

Sunday, 20th May, The Hanson. Another dreadful night for me. Wind and clouds still coming from
the north-west, but no rain.

Monday, 21st May, The Hanson. Unable to move; very ill indeed. When shall I get relief from
this dreadful state?

Tuesday, 22nd May, The Hanson. I got a little sleep last night, and feel a great deal easier
this morning, and shall try my horse back again. I shall now steer north-east to a range of
hills that I saw from the top of Central Mount Stuart, and hope from these to obtain an entrance
to the north-west or north-east. I also hope to cut the creek that carries off the surplus
water from all the creeks which I have passed since March. It must go somewhere, for it is
difficult to believe that those numerous bodies of water can be consumed by evaporation. Started
on a bearing of 48 degrees, crossed the Hanson, running a little on our right; at six miles
crossed it again, running more to the north for two miles further. We crossed four more of
its courses, all running in the same direction. The most easterly one is spread over a large
salt-creek valley, and forms a lagoon at the foot of some sand ridges, the highest of which
is ten miles and a half from our last camp. On the east side of it there is a large lagoon,
five miles long by one mile and a half broad, in which water has lately been, but it is now
dry. We then proceeded through a little scrub, with splendid grass, and at twelve miles cut
a small gum creek, coming from the range. We saw a number of birds about, and there were tracks
of natives, quite fresh, in the creek. Sent Kekwick down it to see if there were water, while
I went up and examined it. This is the large gum plain that we met with the day we made the
Centre; it is completely covered with grass. Kekwick ran the creek out. At about two miles
he observed a little water in the creek, where the natives had been digging. He also came upon
two of them, and two little children. They did not observe him until he was within fifty yards,
when they stood for a few minutes paralysed with astonishment; then, snatching up the children,
ran off as quickly as their legs could carry them. They did not utter a sound, although he
called to them. He remarked that they had no hair on their heads, or it was as short as if
it had been burned off close. I wish I had seen them; I should have overtaken them and seen
if it were a fact that the hair was burnt. It is reported in Adelaide that there are natives
in the interior without hair on their bodies. At fourteen miles we again struck the creek,
and found plenty of water in it. It winds all over the plain in every direction. Camped for
the night very much done up. I could hardly sit in my saddle for this short distance. Wind
north-west.

Wednesday, 23rd May, Gum Creek, East Range, the Stirling. The wind has changed again to the
south-east. I have named this creek the Stirling, after the Honourable Edward Stirling, M.L.C.
Followed it into the range on the same course towards a bluff, where I think I shall find an
easy crossing. At one mile from the camp the hills commenced on the south-east side of the
creek, but on the north-west side they commenced three miles further back. There was abundance
of water in the creek for thirteen miles; at ten miles there was another large branch with
water coming from the south-east. At fourteen miles ascended the bluff and obtained the following
bearings: South side of the creek, to a high part of the range about two miles off (which I
have named Mount Gwynne, after his Honour, Justice Gwynne), 186 degrees. North side of the
creek, to another hill about two miles and a half off (which I have named Mount Mann, in memory
of the late Commissioner of Insolvency), 249 degrees. Central Mount Stuart bears 131 degrees
to the highest point. At the north-west termination of the next range, to which I shall now
go, there are two very large hills, the north one, which is the highest, I have named Mount
Strzelecki, after Count Strzelecki, bearing 358 degrees. I have named the high peak on the
same range Mount Morphett, after the Honourable John Morphett, M.L.C. The view from this bluff
is extensive, except to the west-north-west, which is hidden by this range just alluded to,
which I have named Forster Range, after the Honourable Anthony Forster, M.L.C. From the south-west
it has the appearance of a long continuous range, but, on entering it, it is much broken into
irregular and rugged hills: on this side, the north-east, it consists of table-hills, with
a number of rugged isolated ones on the north side. To the north-west there is another scrubby
and gum-tree plain; to the north-north-west are some isolated low ranges; to the north are
grassy plains and low ranges; to the east are several spurs from this range, which is composed
of a very hard dark-red stone, mixed with small round quartz and ironstone, and in some places
a hard flinty quartz. The range and hills are covered with spinifex, but the valleys are beautifully
grassed. We descended, and at four miles struck a creek coming from the range, and running
between two low ranges towards the north-east. At seven miles changed my course to north-east
to camp in the creek, and endeavour to get water for the horses before encountering the scrubby
plains to-morrow morning. At five miles came upon a low range, but no creek; it must have gone
further to the eastward. It being now quite dark, we camped under the ranges. Since I changed
my course I have come through a patch of mulga and other scrubs with plenty of grass, but no
watercourses. Wind south-east; heavy clouds from the north-west; lightning in the south and west.

Thursday, 24th May, Range of Low Hills. This morning I feel very ill from climbing the bluff
yesterday; I had no sleep during the night, the pains being so very violent. About 9 o'clock
we had a heavy shower of rain, and a little more during the night. Very late before the horses
were found, and the atmosphere very thick, with the prospect of rain for the rest of the day.
This and my being so ill have decided me to remain here until to-morrow, there being sufficient
rain water for the horses. A few more light showers during the afternoon and evening. Wind
still the same; heavy clouds from the north-west.

Friday, 25th May, Range of Low Hills. I feel better this morning. The clouds have all gone
during the night, and it is now quite clear. Started for Mount Strzelecki, passing through
some very thick mulga scrub, with a few gum-trees and plenty of grass. At twenty-one miles
came upon a small gum creek, where we gave the horses water, filled our own canteens, and proceeded
to the foot of the mount and camped. At a mile from its base the spinifex begins again. Wind
south-east. Very cold.

Saturday, 26th May, Mount Strzelecki. Ascended the mount, and built a cone of stones. To the
east are hills connected with this range, which I have named Crawford Range, after ---- Crawford,
Esquire, of Adelaide. To the east-north-east is a large wooded undulating plain, with another
range in the extreme distance. To the north-east the distant range continues with the same
plain between. At a bearing of 55 degrees is a large lagoon, in which there appears to be a
little water. To the north-north-east the plain appears to be rather more scrubby, and with
a few sand hills. To the north the point of the distant range is lost sight of by some high
scrubby land. To the west there are a few low hills, from fifteen to twenty-five miles distant.
This range is composed of a hard flinty quartz, partly of a blue colour, with a little ironstone.
We can find no permanent water in this range, but, from the two or three native tracks, quite
fresh, which we have passed, I think there must be some about. Descended, and proceeded round
the range to the lagoon, the range being too rough to cross. There is not enough water to be
a drink for the horses. Camped. Very heavy clouds from the north-west. The mount is about four
miles distant. At sundown there was a beautiful rain for an hour. It is very strange, the clouds
come from the north-west, and the wind from the south-east. The rain seems to be coming against
the wind.

Sunday, 27th May, Lagoon North-east of Mount Strzelecki. We had a few heavy showers during
the night, but it seems as if the rain would now clear off. I hope not, for there is only about
two inches of water in the lagoon. I am again suffering much pain from the exertion it cost
me to climb Mount Strzelecki, and from assisting in building the cone of stones; but if I did
not put my hands to almost everything that is required, I should never get on. My party is
too small. It is killing work.

Monday, 28th May, Lagoon North-east of Mount Strzelecki. We could not get a start till 9.15,
the horses having strayed to a distant bank for shelter from the wind, which was piercingly
cold. I had, in the first instance, to go three miles north-north-west, in order to clear the
low stony range that runs on to the east side of the lagoon. I then changed to 22 degrees to
the far-distant range. For the first three miles our course was through a very thick mulga
scrub, with plenty of grass, and occasionally a little spinifex; it then changed to a slightly
undulating country of a reddish soil, with gum and cork-trees, and numerous low sandy plains,
much resembling the gum and spinifex plains to the west, where I was twice beaten back. It
certainly is a desert country. Camped without water on a little patch of grass. Distance to-day,
twenty-eight miles. Wind south-east. Very cold all day.

Tuesday, 29th May, Scrub, Spinifex and Gum-Trees. Started at 8 on the same course for the range,
which is still distant, through the same description of country. At seven miles we came upon
a plain of long grass, which seems to have been flooded. It is about two miles broad. Between
this and the first hill of the range we passed four more of the same description. Distance
to the first hill, fourteen miles. In another mile we struck a small creek; searched for water,
but could find none, although birds were numerous; thence through another mulga scrub, and
after crossing a number of rough stony hills, we arrived at the top of the range, which I have
named Davenport Range, after the Honourable Samuel Davenport, M.L.C. It is composed of hard
red sandstone, with courses of quartz. I find this is not the range for which I am bound. Although
this one is high, the other is still higher, and, I should think, is still forty or fifty miles
distant. The day is thick, and I cannot see distinctly. Between these ranges is a large plain,
more open than those we have come over. To the north the range appears to terminate; to the
west of north, in the far distance, just visible, are two high hills, the northernmost of which
is conical. To the east and south-east is the plain and range; to the west, continuation of
the same plain that we have come over in the last two days' journey. Although we had some heavy
showers at the lagoon, we have not passed a single water-course, except the one we crossed
a few miles before we made this range, nor did we see a drop of surface water: it seems to
be all absorbed the moment that it falls. Descended the north-north-east side of the range,
and at a mile and a half found some rain water in a creek, coming from the range. Camped. Wind
south-east. Distance, twenty miles.

Wednesday, 30th May, The Davenport Range. I find this water will not last more than three days.
I have determined to remain here to-day, and have sent Kekwick in search of more water. As
I am now a little better, I must get my plan brought up. It has got in arrear, in consequence
of my hands being so bad with the scurvy. My limbs are much easier, yet the riding is still
very painful; my mouth also is much better, so that I am led to hope that the disease will
soon leave me. Native tracks about here, and when I was on the top of the range I saw smoke
in the scrub a few miles to the north-west. Sundown: I am quite surprised that Kekwick has
not returned, as my instructions to him were not to go above five or six miles, and then to
return whether he found water or not. I am very much afraid that something has happened to him.

Thursday, 31st May, The Davenport Range. Kekwick has not returned. I begin to feel very uneasy
about him. I must be off and follow up his tracks. Sent Ben for the horses. He was a long time
in finding them, as is generally the case when one wants a thing in a hurry. 9.30: Kekwick
has arrived before the horses; he overshot his mark last night, and got beyond the camp. I
am very glad he is all safe. He informs me that he came upon plenty of water a few miles from
here, which compensates for the anxiety he caused me during the night. His reason for not returning
as I had directed was that he crossed a gum creek which had so promising an appearance, that
he was induced to follow it to the plains, where he found an abundance of water. While he was
riding he was taken very ill, and was unable to come on for some time, which made it so late
that he could not see to reach the camp. He is unable to proceed to-day, which is vexing, for
I wish to get on as quickly as possible.

Friday, 1st June, The Davenport Range. The horses having strayed, we did not get a start till
late. Our course was 22 degrees, and at two miles we struck a small gum creek coming from the
range and running west-north-west. At three miles and a half we crossed a larger one coming
from, and running in, the same direction. Then commenced again the same sort of country that
we passed through the other day. At eight miles struck a splendid large gum creek or river,
having long and deep reaches of water with fish four or five inches in length; it is running
through the plain as far as I can see, which is only a short distance, the ground being low
and level. Its course at this place is to the west-north-west; it is very broad, and in some
places the banks are perpendicular, and are well grassed and covered with fine gum-trees, mulga
and other bushes. From bank to bank its width is about ten chains. This is the finest creek
for water that we have passed since leaving Chambers Creek. The day being far advanced, I shall
camp here, and get to the range to-morrow. I am very much inclined to follow this creek and
see where it empties itself; but I expect to find a large one close to the range, or on the
other side. I wish also to get on the top to see what the country on ahead is like. The fact
of fish being in this creek leads me to think that it does not empty itself into the gum plains,
like others lately passed, but that it must flow either into the sea on the north-west coast,
or into a lake. I have named it the Bonney Creek, after Charles Bonney, Esquire, late Commissioner
of Crown Lands for South Australia.

Saturday, 2nd June, The Bonney Creek. Started at 8.20 on the same course, 22 degrees, for the
range, through a country of alternate spinifex and grass with a little mulga scrub. At seven
miles we struck another large gum creek with every appearance of water, but I had no time to
look for it, being anxious to make the range to-night, and endeavour to find water either on
this side or on the other. The creek is large, and resembles the last. I have named it the
McLaren, after John McLaren, Esquire, late Deputy Surveyor-General of South Australia. At seventeen
miles, after passing through a well-grassed country with a little scrub, we reached the top
of the first range, which is composed of a hard white granite-looking rock, with courses of
quartz running through it. I have three or four spurs to cross yet before I make the main range.
So far as I can see, McLaren Creek is running much in the same direction as the Bonney. Started
from the top of the range and had a very difficult job in crossing the spurs. About sundown
arrived all safe on a gum flat, between the ranges, and attempted to get upon what appears
to be the highest range, but getting up the horses deterred us. We then sought for water among
the numerous gum creeks which cover the plain, and at dark found some, and camped. There is
a good supply of water, but I do not think it is permanent; it will last, however, for a month
or six weeks. I have named these ranges the Murchison, after Sir Roderick Murchison, President
of the Royal Geographical Society, London. Wind varying.

Sunday, 3rd June, Murchison Ranges. I feel very unwell this morning, from the rough ride yesterday.
It was my intention to have walked to the top of the range to-day, but I am not able to do
so. The small plain between the ranges is a bed of soft white sandstone, through which the
different creeks have cut deep courses; the stones on the surface (igneous principally), are
composed of iron, quartz, dark black and blue stone, also a bright red one, all run together
and twisted into every sort of nick, as also with the limestone, and many other sorts which
I do not know. This plain is covered with a most hard spinifex, very difficult to get the horses
to face. In another creek, about one mile south-west from the camp, is a large water hole which
will last six months; it is ten yards long by twenty yards wide.

Monday, 4th June, Murchison Ranges. Started on a course of 330 degrees to round this spur of
the ranges, and at four miles and a half changed to 15 degrees to the high point of the range,
and at three miles arrived on the top. I have named it Mount Figg. The view from this is extensive.
The course of this range from the south to this point is 25 degrees; it then makes a turn to
the north-north-west, in which direction the country appears more open, with some patches of
thick scrub, and high ranges in the distance. From north-west to west it appears to be gum
plain, with open patches of grass, and a number of creeks running into it from the range. I
shall change my course to a high peak on the north-west point of the range, which bears from
this 340 degrees 30 minutes. This range is volcanic here, and is of the same formation as I
have already given. Started from the top of the mount at 12 o'clock. Went for eight miles along
the side of the range, and met with a small gum creek running on our course; followed it up
for three miles without finding water; it then took a more westerly course, so I left it to
pursue my route. After leaving the mount, the range is composed of red sandstone with a little
quartz. We have occasionally met with a little limestone gravel. Camped at 6 o'clock, without
water.

Tuesday, 5th June, Gum-Tree Plain. Started on the same course at 7 o'clock for the high peak,
through the same sort of country as yesterday. No watercourse. At fifteen miles ascended the
peak, which I have named Mount Samuel, after my brother. The top is a mass of nearly pure ironstone.
It attracted the compass 160 degrees. From north to west are broken ranges and isolated hills
of a volcanic character, in all sorts of shapes. The isolated hills seem to be the termination
of these ranges, which run nearly north and south. I have named them the McDouall Ranges, after
Colonel McDouall, of the 2nd Life Guards, Logan, Wigtownshire. I then changed my course to
the north-north-east in search of water, there being no appearance of any to the north-north-west.
After travelling five miles over small grassy, scrubby plains, between isolated hills and gum-trees,
I could not find a water-course, so I changed to the east, to try if I could see anything from
a high hill, which I ascended, and discovered a gum creek coming from the range on the east
side. Followed it down, and, one mile and a half from the top, found a splendid hole of water
in the rock, very deep, and permanent. The creek is very rocky, and its course here is north-east
into the plain. Wind south-east. Clouds from the north-west.

Wednesday, 6th June, Gum Creek, North-east Side of the McDouall Ranges. There being nothing
but spinifex on the ranges and creeks, the horses had been travelling nearly all night in search
of food, and had gone a long way before they were overtaken. This morning saddled and got a
start by 11 o'clock on a course of 340 degrees, crossing numerous creeks and stout spinifex,
through which we had great difficulty in driving the horses. At five miles struck a gum creek
in which we found water. The banks have excellent feed upon them, and in abundance, so, for
the sake of the horses, I have determined to remain here to-day. This creek, which I have named
Tennant Creek, after John Tennant, Esquire, of Port Lincoln, runs east. In searching for the
horses this morning Ben found three or four more large water holes in the adjoining creek,
a little south-east from this. Before we reached this, we crossed some marks very much resembling
old horse-tracks.

Thursday, 7th June, Tennant Creek, McDouall Ranges. Started at 7.20. Course, 340 degrees. At
three miles passed through an immense number of huge granite rocks piled together and scattered
about in every direction, with a few small water-courses running amongst them to the eastward.
We then encountered a rather thick scrub, and occasionally crossed a few low quartz rises coming
from the McDouall ranges. At fourteen miles ascended the highest of them, which I have named
Mount Woodcock, after the Venerable the Archdeacon of Adelaide. To the north-west and north
is another range, about ten miles distant, which seems to continue a long way. I will change
my course to 315 degrees, which will take me to the highest point. At two miles on this course
came upon a gum creek running to the north-east, which I named Bishop Creek; followed it for
one mile and a half, and found water, which will last a month or six weeks, and an immense
number of birds. This is a camping-place of the natives, who seem to have been here very lately.
We watered the horses and proceeded towards the range. At about two miles passed a low rugged
ironstone range, peculiar in having a large square mass of ironstone standing by itself about
the centre. I have named it Mount Sinclair, after James Sinclair, of Port Lincoln. Passed through
a thick scrub, among which we saw a very handsome bush that was new to us, having a blue-green
leaf ten inches long by six inches broad. We looked for some seed, but could not find any.
At five miles crossed a grassy gum plain, where a creek empties itself. The same scrub continues
to the range, which we reached at twelve miles from the water. It is not very high, but rough
and steep, and we had great difficulty in getting to the top, but after many twistings and
turnings and scramblings, we arrived there all right, and found it to be table land. At fourteen
miles camped without water. The range is composed of ironstone, granite, quartz and red sandstone,
running north of west and south of east. I have named it Short Range, after the Right Reverend
the Lord Bishop of Adelaide.

Friday, 8th June, Short Range. Started at 8 o'clock on the same course, 315 degrees, to some
very distant rising grounds. Short range seems to run nearly parallel to our course, as also
does another distant range to the north, which I have named Sturt Range, after Captain Sturt.
The table land continued about two miles, and then there was a gradual descent to the plains,
and we entered a thick scrub with spinifex and gums. At eighteen miles came upon a beautiful
plain of grass, having large gum-trees, and a new description of tree, the foliage of which
is a dark-green and rather round, and the bark rough and of a dark colour. Here also was the
cork-tree, and numerous other shrubs. This grassy plain continued for thirty-one miles, until
we camped, but the last part is not so good. When I struck this plain, I was in great hopes
of finding a large creek of water, but have been disappointed; we have not crossed a single
water-course in thirty-one miles. Camped at sundown. No water. Wind south-east.

Saturday, 9th June, Grassy Plain. There is some rising ground a few miles further on, to which
I shall go in search of a creek; I might be able to see something from it. If I do not find
water I shall have to retreat to Bishop Creek, as the horses have now been two nights without
water. Started at 7 o'clock, same course, 315 degrees, through scrub and a light sandy soil.
At four miles got to the rise, which is a scrubby sand-hill. From this I can see nothing, the
scrub being so thick; it is of a nasty, tough, wiry description, and has torn our hands and
saddle-bags to pieces. I got up a tree to look over the top of this scrub, which is about twelve
feet high, and I could see our course for a long distance; it appears to be the same terrible
scrub, with no sign of any creeks. It is very vexing to get thus far, and have to turn back,
when perhaps another day's journey would bring me to a better country. I shall now try a south
course, and cut the grassy plains to the westward, in the hope of finding water; if so, I shall
be able to make two days' journey to the north-west. Started on a south course for fourteen
miles, through scrub and small grassy plains alternately, but we could find neither creek nor
water. I now regret that I attempted the south course, which makes the distance from the water
so much greater. Wind still south-east; heavy clouds coming from the north-west, I trust it
will rain before morning.

Sunday, 10th June, Grassy Plains. Started at sunrise, and at two miles again got into the scrub.
Three of the horses we can scarcely get along; they are very much done up. At 11 o'clock, one
horse gave in altogether. We cannot get him up; we have tried everything in our power to do
something for him. The other horses have been carrying his load, and he has had nothing to
carry for this last hour and a half; all our efforts are in vain, and I am obliged, although
with great reluctance, to leave him to his fate. Had this occurred nearer the water, I should
have put an end to his existence and taken part of him to eat, for we are now very short of
provisions, and the other horses have quite enough to carry without sharing his load; I wish
I had left him sooner. At 12 o'clock, I find I shall lose some more of them, if they do not
get water to-night, and it will be to-morrow before I can reach Bishop Creek. I shall now go
to Short range and try to find some. The little bay mare Polly has become nearly mad, running
about among the other horses, and kicking them as she passes; even the men do not escape from
her heels. At five miles made the range. There are no large creeks coming from this side--nothing
but small ones which empty themselves into the plain; sand up to the foot of the hills. Before
we reach the range another of the horses is done up; he has only been carrying about 30 pounds
in consequence of his back having been bad for the last three weeks. We lightened all the weak
horses two days since. We shall now try if he will go without anything on his back. We are
now amongst the granite ridges, and hope we shall find water on this side. The horse has given
in before we can get to the other side. We must leave him for the sake of the others. Too much
time has already been lost in endeavouring to get them on. Reached the other side and searched
the different creeks, but cannot find any water. Crossed a spur of the range running south,
and can see a nice-looking creek with gum-trees. Our hopes and spirits are again revived; the
sight of it has even invigorated the horses, and they are hurrying on towards it. Traversed
it down, but, to our great disappointment, find that it loses itself in a grassy plain. It
is now dark, so I must remain here for the night. The sky is quite overcast, and I trust that
Providence will send us rain before morning. An accident has happened to the water we were
carrying; it was all lost yesterday. If it clears during the night, so that I can see the stars
to guide me, I shall move on.

Monday, 11th June, Short Range. During the night there were a few drops of rain, which again
raised our hopes, and about 4 o'clock it looked as if we were to have a deluge, but, alas!
it only rained for about two minutes, and as much fell as would wet a pocket-handkerchief.
Saddled and started through the range, my poor little mare looking very bad this morning; I
have taken everything off her, so that she may hold out until we get to water, and I have been
obliged to leave as many things at this camp as I could possibly do without. The mare lies
down every few yards, I am therefore compelled to leave her for the sake of the others. From
the number of birds about here, I think there must be water near; I hope she may find it, although
I am afraid she is too far gone even to try it. At 1 o'clock, at the foot of Mount Woodcock,
the horses' spirits revived at sight of their old track. I shall now be able to get all the
rest of them safe to water, although there is one still doubtful. My own black mare shows a
few symptoms of madness, but still keeps on, and does her work well. About an hour before sundown
arrived at the water without any more losses, for which I sincerely thank the Almighty. We
have had a terrible job to keep the horses from drinking too much water, but, as they have
now eaten a few mouthfuls of grass, I have allowed them to drink as much as they thought proper.
The natives have been here since we left.

Tuesday, 12th June, Bishop Creek. Resting: the horses look very bad; they remained by the water
all night.

Wednesday, 13th June, Bishop Creek. The horses still look very bad this morning; they have
again stayed by the water nearly all night; they had been one hundred and one hours without
a drop, and have accomplished a journey of one hundred and twelve miles; they will require
a week to recover; one of them is very lame from a kick the little mare gave him in her madness.
About 11 o'clock I heard the voice of a native; looked round and could see two in the scrub,
about a quarter of a mile distant. I beckoned to them to approach, but they kept making signs
which I could not understand. I then moved towards them, but the moment they saw me move, they
ran off immediately. About a quarter of an hour afterwards they again made their appearance
on the top of the quartz reef, opposite our camp, and two others showed themselves in about
the same place as the two first did. Thinking this was the only water, I made signs to the
two on the reef to go to the water; but they still continued talking and making signs which
I could not understand; it seemed as if they wished us to go away, which I was determined not
to do. They then made a number of furious frantic gestures, shaking their spears, and twirling
them round their heads, etc. etc., I suppose bidding us defiance. I should think the youngest
was about twenty-five years of age. He placed a very long spear into the instrument they throw
them with, and, after a few more gestures, descended from the reef, and gradually came a little
nearer. I made signs of encouragement for him to come on, at the same time moving towards him.
At last we arrived on the banks of the creek, he on one side, and I on the other. He had a
long spear, a womera, and two instruments like the boomerang, but more the shape of a scimitar,
with a very sharp edge, having a thick place at the end, roughly carved, for the hand. The
gestures he was making were now signs of hostility, and he came fully prepared for war. I then
broke a branch of green leaves from a bush, and held it up towards him, inviting him to come
across to me. As he did not seem to fancy that, I crossed to where he was, and got within two
yards of him. He thought I was quite near enough, and would not have me any nearer, for he
kept moving back as I approached. I wished to get close up to him, but he would not have it;
we then stood still, and I tried to make him understand, by signs, that all we wanted was water
for two or three days. At last he seemed to understand, nodded his head, pointed to the water,
then to our camp, and held up his five fingers. I then endeavoured to learn from him if there
was water to the north or north-east, but I could make nothing of him. He viewed me very steadily
for a long time, began talking, and seeing that I did not understand him, he made the sign
that natives generally do of wanting something to eat, and pointed towards me. Whether he meant
to ask if I was hungry, or to suggest that I should make a very good supper for him, I do not
know, but I bowed my head as if I understood him perfectly. We then separated, I keeping a
careful watch upon him all the time I was crossing the creek. Before I left him the other one
joined. The first was a tall, powerful, well-made fellow, upwards of six feet; his hair was
very long, and he had a red-coloured net tied round his head, with the ends of his hair lying
on his shoulders. I observed nothing else that was peculiar about them. They had neither skins
nor anything round their bodies, but were quite naked. They then took their departure. A short
time afterwards I saw them joined by five others. We have seen nothing more of them to-day,
and I hope they will not trouble us any more, but let me get my horses rested in peace. Wind
south, all the clouds gone; nights and mornings very cold. Occupied during the day in shoeing
horses, and repairing and making saddle-bags.

Thursday, 14th June, Bishop Creek. On examining the water holes, I find there are small crab
fish in them, which leads me to think this water is permanent. This morning we again hear the
voices of the natives up the creek to the west. There must be plenty more water up there, as
most of the birds go in that direction to drink, passing by this water. The natives have not
come near us to-day, but we have seen the smoke of their fires. Shoeing horses, repairing and
making saddle-bags, which were torn all to pieces by the scrub.

Friday, 15th June, Bishop Creek. Resting horses, and getting our equipment in order for another
trial, as I think the horses will be ready to start on Monday morning. No more of the natives
but their smoke is still visible. Wind south; day hot, night cool.

Saturday, 16th June, Bishop Creek. The horses are still drinking an immense quantity of water;
they are at it five and six times a day; they must have suffered dreadfully. The grass here
is as dry as if it were the middle of summer, instead of winter. I hope we may soon have rain,
which would be a great blessing to me.

Sunday, 17th June, Bishop Creek. The horses still pay frequent visits to the water. We have
found more about a mile up the creek, and there seems to be plenty further up in the hills;
I cannot examine it just now, in consequence of the natives being about. It would not do for
me to leave, as the party is so small, nor do I like sending one of them, for he might be taken
by surprise and cut off, which would ruin me altogether, being able to do scarcely anything
myself. Although I am much better, I am still very weak; the pains in my limbs are not so constant.
I attribute the relief to eating a number of native cucumbers which are in quantities on this
creek. The horse that was kicked by the mare is still very lame. Wind south-east.

Monday, 18th June, Bishop Creek. Started at 9.30 on a bearing of 18 degrees, through a plain
of alternate grass, scrub, and spinifex, and at five miles passed a number of isolated hills
close together, composed of large masses of ironstone, quartz, and a hard brown rock, very
irregular, and all sorts of shapes; the stones seem as if they had undergone the action of
fire. We then proceeded through some very bad spinifex, dark-coloured, long, hard and dry;
we could scarcely get the horses to face it. We then came upon a grassy plain, and at ten miles
struck a gum creek coming from the west of north-west, and running (at this place) east-north-east;
followed it and found an abundance of water in long deep holes, with shells of the crab fish
lying on the banks. The water is upwards of a mile in length; the creek then spreads out over
a grassy plain with scrub and gum-trees, and is joined by the other creeks coming from the
McDouall range. I thought it advisable to camp here for the rest of the day, as a further journey
would be a risk for the horse that is lame, and I do not wish to lose any more; as it is, I
am afraid he will not be able to cross Short range, which I hope to do in a few hours. Natives
about. Splendid grass on this plain, and on the banks of the creek, which I have named Phillips
Creek, after John Phillips, Esquire, J.P., of Kanyaka. Wind variable.

Tuesday, 19th June, Phillips Creek. Started at 8 o'clock on the same bearing, 18 degrees. We
first passed through a well-grassed plain with a little scrub, then again through hard spinifex
to the range. At one mile crossed another gum creek with water in it, coming from Short range.
At four miles reached the top of the spur of the range; and at seven miles, the top of the
range. About two miles to the east, the range seems to terminate in a gum plain, a spur from
the McDouall range running on the other side of the plain, and crossing our line a few miles
further on. Short range here is composed of quartz, ironstone, and red granite, with a little
limestone. Descended into the plain, and at ten miles came upon another gum creek, spreading
over a grassy plain, but could find no water. At thirteen miles came upon some dry swamps with
a number of birds about them. At fourteen miles reached the top of the next range. From this
the appearance of the country, on this course, is evidently very scrubby. On a bearing of 55
degrees, in the far distance, is the termination of another range. I do not like facing the
scrub again so soon after my late loss, and with my horses not yet recovered. I shall return
to the swamps and look for water. If I find any, I shall start in the morning for the end of
the distant range. My lame horse is unable to do more to-day; crossing the range has been very
hard upon him. Returned to the swamps and found a fine pond of water. Camped. The water is
derived from the creek that we passed in the middle of the day. I have named these ponds after
Kekwick, in token of the zeal and activity he has displayed during the expedition.

Wednesday, 20th June, Kekwick Ponds. Saddled at sunrise, and proceeded to the top of the low
range, from which I turned back yesterday, and changed my course to 56 degrees to the northernmost
point of the distant hills, through a plain of alternate grass and spinifex. At 3 o'clock struck
the William Creek again, with splendid grass on its banks. It ran nearly our course for about
three miles, and then turned to the east. We then entered the same sort of scrub as that in
which I lost my horses; this continued until we reached the hills, which we did in about eighteen
miles. From this we can see a range to the south-south-east. About ten miles off there is a
large lake, with red sand hills on the east side. I cannot see the extent of it, the hills
that I am now on being so low; they are composed of granite, and run north and south. To the
north and north-east is another lake, about the same distance, to which I shall go on a course
of 32 degrees 30 minutes. On the north side of this one there are also sand hills with scrub.
For two miles after leaving the hills we passed through a soft, sandy, scrubby country and
spinifex. It then became harder, with grass and spinifex alternately. At four miles from the
hills we camped without water. My horses have not recovered from their last trial, and seem
to be very tired to-night, although to-day's journey was not a long one, but it has been very
hot, and the scrub thick and difficult to get through.

Thursday, 21st June, Scrub. The horses having gone back on the track, we did not get a start
until 8.30--course, 32 degrees 30 minutes to a high hill on the other side of the lake, passing
through a thick scrub of cork-tree and gums, with spinifex and grass. At seven miles came upon
what I thought was the lake, but it turns out to be a large plain of rich alluvial soil covered
with dry grass, which gave it the appearance of a lake. It was three miles across to the top
of the hill; no water-course through, nor any water to be seen. The hills on the north side
are composed of ironstone and granite, and, from the distance, looked very much like sand hills.
From the top of the hill I can see the plain extending a little to the west of north, but I
cannot see far for the mirage. To the north-north-east is another plain of the same description,
but much smaller, about a mile and a half broad, and nearly circular. To the north-east is
another very extensive one; its dimensions I cannot see. I seem to have got into the land of
grassy plains and low stony hills. I wish my horses had had water last night or yesterday.
They seem to be very much in want of it. I must devote the rest of this day to a search for
it. I shall now direct my course for the south part of the plain that I have just crossed;
it seems to be the lowest part, and the flight of the birds is directed that way. Searched
all round, but can find no water; so I must return to Kekwick Ponds. The day is extremely hot,
and my horses cannot stand two more nights without water. Would that they had more endurance!
It is dreadful to have to turn back almost at the threshold of success. I cannot be far from
the dip of the country to the Gulf. Returned by another course to where I camped last night,
but still no water. I would fain try the plain to the south, but I dare not risk the loss of
more horses. Proceeded to the low range that I crossed yesterday; examined round it, but cannot
find any water. Camped. Two of the horses very much done up. I must go back through that nasty
scrub again.

Friday, 22nd June, Under the West Low Range. Started at sunrise for the ponds, and at 1.30
arrived; the horses being very much exhausted. I am glad I did not remain another night without
water; three of them are completely done up, and it has been with difficulty that we have got
them here. Wind south-west.

Saturday, 23rd June, Kekwick Ponds. Resting horses. About 1 o'clock we were visited by two
natives, who presented us with four opossums and a number of small birds and parrots. They
were much frightened at first, but after a short time became very bold, and, coming to our
camp, wanted to steal everything they could lay their fingers on. I caught one concealing the
rasp that is used in shoeing the horses under the netting he had round his waist, and was obliged
to take it from him by force. The canteens they seemed determined to have, and it was with
difficulty we could get them from them. They wished to pry into everything, until I lost all
patience and ordered them off. In about half an hour two other young men approached the camp.
Thinking they might be in want of water, and afraid to come to it on account of the horses,
I sent Ben with a tin dishful, which they drank. They were very young men, and too much frightened
to come any nearer. About an hour before sundown, one of the first that had come, returned,
bringing with him three others, two of whom were young, tall, powerful, well made, and good-looking,
and as fine specimens of the native as I have yet seen. On their heads they had a neatly-fitting
hat or helmet close to the brow, and rising straight up to a rounded peak, three or four inches
above the head and gradually becoming narrower towards the back part. The outside was net-work;
the inside was composed of feathers very tightly bound together with cord until it was as hard
as a piece of wood; it may be used as a protection from the sun, or as armour for the battle-field.
One of them had a great many scars upon him, and seemed to be a leading man. Only two had helmets
on, the others had pieces of netting bound round their foreheads. They then took their departure,
making friendly signs until they were out of sight. We enjoyed a good supper from the opossums,
which we have not had for many a day. The men are complaining of weakness from the want of
sufficient nourishment. I find the quantity of rations is not enough; five pounds of flour
per week is too little for many weeks together. It may do very well for a month or so, but
when it comes to the length of time we have been out, we all feel it very much; and the dried
meat that I brought with me being very young, it has not half the strength in it that old meat has.

Sunday, 24th June, Kekwick Ponds. Our black friends have not made their appearance to-day.

Monday, 25th June, Kekwick Ponds. Started again on a bearing of 345 degrees to some very distant
hills, to see if I can get into the face of the country to the Gulf of Carpentaria. At two
miles crossed a large gum creek (with long beds of concrete ironstone), which I have named
Hayward Creek, after Frederick Hayward, Esquire. The banks are beautifully grassed, and extend
for four miles on the north side. At fourteen miles struck a gum creek with large sheets of
water in which were plenty of ducks, native companions, black shags, cranes, and other birds.
Camped here for the remainder of the day. The course of the creek at this point is to the north
of east, and coming from the north of west, apparently from the range, which is distant about
ten miles. It very much resembles Chambers Creek. The ponds (in which we found some small fish)
are about eighty yards broad, and about three quarters of a mile long, having large masses
of concrete ironstone at both ends, separating the one pond from the other; large gum-trees
being in the ponds. Wind north-west. Very hot.

Tuesday, 26th June, Large Gum Creek, with Sheets of Water. I have resolved to follow this creek
down to-day, and, if the water continues, to follow it out. Started on a course 77 degrees,
and at six miles crossed the creek, which is running a little more to the north. There are
long sheets of water all the way down to this, the banks in some places being steep, with the
lower part formed of concrete, and the upper red sandy soil, which gives me a bad opinion of
it for water, if the concrete ceases. Here we saw some blacks; they would not come near us,
but walked off as fast as they could. From the top of the rise we saw where they were camped,
on the banks of a large sheet of water; we passed on without taking any more notice of them,
and at nine miles, not seeing any appearance of the creek, I changed my course to 25 degrees.
At three quarters of a mile cut it again, but without water in it; it is much narrower and
deeper, having sandy banks and bed. Changed again to 77 degrees, the creek frequently crossing
our course, and at fifteen miles saw there was no hope of obtaining water. The country is becoming
more sandy, and is thickly covered with spinifex and scrub. We crossed down to the banks of
the creek; no rising ground visible. I must keep closer to the hills, and, as the day has been
very hot, I shall return and camp at nine miles from our last camp, if there is water; if not,
I shall have to camp a short way above where we saw the natives this morning. I do not wish
to get too near them, or to annoy them in any way. We could find no water below where they
were camped; I therefore pushed on to get above them before dark. At half-past one o'clock,
about three miles from the creek, we saw where they had been examining our tracks, and as we
approached the creek their tracks became very numerous on ours. When we arrived on the top
of the rise, where we had previously seen their camp and fires, we could now see nothing of
them, neither smoke, fires, nor anything else: it was then nearly dark. I concluded they had
left in consequence of having seen us pass in the morning, as natives in general do. I was
moving on to the place where we crossed the creek in the morning, when suddenly from behind
some scrub which we had just entered, up started three tall powerful fellows fully armed, having
a number of boomerangs, waddies, and spears. Their distance from us was about two hundred yards.
It being so nearly dark, and the scrub we were then in placing us at a disadvantage, I wished
to pass without taking any notice of them, but such was not their intention, for they continued
to approach us, calling out and making all sorts of gestures apparently of defiance. I then
faced them, making every sign of friendship I could think of. They seemed to be in a great
fury, moving their boomerangs above their head, bawling at the top of their voices, and performing
some sort of a dance. They were now joined by more of their tribe, so that in a few minutes
their numbers had increased to upwards of thirty; every bush seemed to produce a man. Putting
the horses on towards the creek, and placing ourselves between them and the natives, I told
my men to get their guns ready, for I could see they were determined upon mischief. They paid
no regard to all the signs of friendship I kept constantly making, but were still gradually
approaching nearer and nearer to us. I felt very unwilling to fire upon them, and still continued
making signs of peace and friendship, but all to no purpose. Their leader, an old man, who
was in advance, made signs with his boomerang, which we took as a signal for us to be off.
They were, however, intended as tokens of defiance, for I had no sooner turned my horse's head
to comply with what I thought were their wishes, than we received a shower of boomerangs, accompanied
by a fearful yell; they then set fire to the grass, and commenced jumping, dancing, yelling,
and throwing their arms into all sorts of postures, like so many fiends. In addition to the
thirty that already confronted us, I could now see many others getting up from behind the bushes.
Still I felt unwilling to fire upon them, and tried again to make them understand that we wished
to do them no harm. Having now approached within about forty yards of us, they made another
charge, and threw their boomerangs, which came whistling and whizzing past our ears, one of
them striking my horse. I then gave orders to fire, which stayed their mad career for a little.
Our pack-horses, which were on before us, took fright when they heard the firing and fearful
yelling, and made off for the creek. Seeing some of the blacks running from bush to bush, with
the intention of cutting us off from our horses, while those in front were still yelling, throwing
their boomerangs, and coming nearer to us, we gave them another reception, and I sent Ben after
the horses to drive them on to a more favourable place, while Kekwick and I remained to cover
our rear. We soon got in advance of those who were endeavouring to cut us off, but they still
kept following, though beyond the reach of our guns, the fearful yelling still continuing from
more numerous voices, and fires springing up in every direction. It being now quite dark, with
the country scrubby, and our enemies bold and daring, we could be easily surrounded and destroyed
by such determined fellows as they have shown themselves to be. Seeing there is no hope with
such fearful odds (ten to one at least) against us, and knowing all the disadvantages under
which we labour, I very unwillingly make up my mind to push on to our last night's camp. We
have done so, and now I have had a little time to consider the matter over I do not think it
prudent to remain here to-night; I shall therefore continue on until I reach the open grassy
plain or gum creek. They are still following us up; I only wish that I had four more men, for
my party is so small that we can only fall back and act on the defensive. If I were to stand
and fight them (which I wish I could) our horses must remain unprotected, and we, in all probability,
should be cut off from them. Our enemies seem to be aiming at that, and to prevent our advance
up the creek; by this time they have found out their mistake, as we did not go a step out of
our course for them. Arrived at Hayward Creek at 11 o'clock at night.

Wednesday, 27th June, Hayward Creek. This morning we see signal fires all around us. It was
my intention last night to have gone this morning to Kekwick Ponds to water the horses, then
to give them the day to rest, and proceed to-morrow back again to the large creek, and go on
to the distant hills that I was steering for on the 25th instant, but, after considering the
matter over the whole night, I have most reluctantly come to the determination to abandon the
attempt to make the Gulf of Carpentaria. Situated as I now am, it would be most imprudent.
In the first place my party is far too small to cope with such wily, determined natives as
those we have just encountered. If they had been Europeans they could not better have arranged
and carried out their plan of attack. They had evidently observed us passing in the morning,
had examined our tracks to see which way we had gone, and knew we could get no water down the
creek, but must retrace our steps to obtain it above them; they therefore lay in wait for our
return. Their charge was in double column, open order, and we had to take steady aim, to make
an impression. With such as these for enemies in our rear, and, most probably, far worse in
advance, it would be destruction to all my party for me to attempt to go on. All the information
of the interior that I have already obtained would be lost. Moreover, we have only half rations
for six months, four of which are gone, and I have been economizing as much as I possibly could
in case of our having to be out a longer time, so that my men now complain of great weakness,
and are unable to perform what they have to do. Again, only two showers of rain have fallen
since March, and I am afraid of the waters drying up to the south, and there is no appearance
of rain at present. The days are now become very hot again, and the feed for the horses as
dry as if it were the middle of summer. The poor animals are very much reduced in condition,
so much so that I am afraid of their being longer than one night without water. Finally, my
health is so bad, that I am hardly able to sit in the saddle. After taking all those things
into consideration, I think it would be madness and folly to attempt more. If my own life were
the only sacrifice, I would willingly risk it to accomplish my purpose; but it seems that I
am destined to be disappointed; man proposes, but the Almighty disposes, and his will must
be obeyed. Seeing the signal fires around, and dreading lest our black friends at Kekwick Ponds
might have been playing a double part with us, in spite of their Masonic signs, I gave them
a wide berth, and steered for Bishop Creek. Arrived there in the afternoon, and found that
the creek had not been visited by natives since we left. These natives do not deposit their
dead bodies in the ground, but place them in the trees, and, judging from the number of these
corpses which we have passed between this and the large creek, where they made their attack
upon us, they must be very numerous. These natives have quite a different cast of features
from those in the south; they have neither the broad flat nose and large mouth, nor the projecting
eyebrows, but have more of the Malay; they are tall, muscular, well-made men, and I think they
must have seen or encountered white men before.

Thursday, 28th June, Bishop Creek. Camped at the rocky water hole north-east side of the McDouall
range.

Friday, 29th June, Anderson Creek. Crossed the McDouall ranges and camped on a gum creek on
the north-east side of the Murchison ranges, which I have named Gilbert Creek, after Thomas
Gilbert, Esquire, late Colonial Storekeeper.

Saturday, 30th June, Gilbert Creek. Crossed the Murchison ranges, and the large gum creek coming
from them, and running west-north-west, which I have named Baker Creek, after the Honourable
John Baker, M.L.C. I did not examine it, but should think from its appearance that there is
water in it; besides, I can distinguish the smoke of a native encampment. Proceeded to the
creek where we camped before, but found all the water gone, except a little moisture in the
bottom of the holes. I was rather surprised at this, for I thought it would have lasted three
months at least. Went to another creek, where there was a large hole of water in conglomerate
rock; this we found also to be very much reduced; when we last saw it, its depth was four feet,
and now it is only eighteen inches. Camped.

Sunday, 1st July, Murchison Ranges. My horses very tired, and three of them are nearly done up.

Monday, 2nd July, Murchison Ranges. Proceeded to the Bonney Creek to get feed for the horses,
there being very little besides spinifex under the ranges. Smoke of native encampments on and
about the creek; I must be very careful.

Tuesday, 3rd July, The Bonney Creek. We have not seen any more of the natives yet. I shall
rest the horses to-day, there being plenty of feed, which they very much want. Being so very
few of us, I am obliged to turn them out with the saddles on; so that, if we are attacked again,
one can put the packs on, while I and the other defend him. The water in this hole is very
much reduced, but I think it will not fail altogether, in consequence of the small fish being
in it. From the diminution of the water in this creek since I left it, a month ago, I am inclined
to think that I shall have a very hard push to get back; my horses being so weak from the hardships
they have undergone, that they are now unable to do as much as they did before. I fear that
I shall not get any water between this and Forster's range, a distance of upwards of eighty
miles, so I shall rest them here for a week, if the natives will be quiet; if not, I must run
the risk of losing more of them. To-day, I had made up my mind to follow out this creek, to
see if the waters continue, and if it would take me to the north of the spinifex and gum-tree
plain which I had to turn back from on my north-west course from Mount Denison, and if rain
falls to try again for the Victoria River. I am, however, disappointed, for, on weighing the
rations, I find I am terribly short, which I did not expect, and which cuts off all hope of
my attaining that point. My troubles and vexations seem to come upon me all at once. Had I
but a stronger party, and six months' rations, I think I should be able to accomplish something
before my return. I have done my best, and can do no more. My eyesight is now so bad that I
cannot depend upon my observations, which will be a great loss to me; and the scurvy has returned
with greater severity. Before I start on my return, if everything goes right, I shall run down
this creek a short distance. It may, at some future time, turn out to be the road to the Victoria
River, or one of its tributaries. Wind south and south-west.

Wednesday, 4th July, The Bonney Creek. The water in this hole has been diminishing very rapidly
since we were here; it is falling at the rate of six inches per day, which is a poor look-out
for us on our homeward course. I have not a day to spare now, as the weather is becoming very
hot, and will dry it up much faster. I must push back as soon as my horses are rested and able
to undergo the eighty miles without water. I must give up the examination of this creek, for
every day now is of the utmost importance, and I must not give the horses one mile more than
I can help. Oh! that rain would fall before I leave this. It would indeed be an inestimable
blessing. Wind from all points. At sundown a few clouds have made their appearance.

Thursday, 5th July, The Bonney Creek. During the night it became very cloudy from the west,
and this morning still continues. My hopes are again raised. If it should rain, I shall try
for the Victoria River again, even though I should be without rations for my return; I could
kill one of the horses and dry his flesh, and that would take me back. Still very cloudy, and
every sign of rain. I am making preparations for another trial. At sundown there are still
heavy black clouds coming from the west, which have raised our hopes of success to the highest
point, and I ardently trust they will be realized. No natives have come near us, yet they are
still about.

Friday, 6th July, The Bonney Creek. A sad, sad disappointment; all our most sanguine hopes
are again gone, for, during the night, the clouds broke up and have all vanished; it is very
vexing. I shall rest the horses till Monday, and then, ill and dispirited, commence my homeward
journey. I dare not venture into a new route, for, want of water, and the low condition of
my horses, compel me to keep my former track. Last night about 10 o'clock, I observed the comet
for the first time, above the west horizon; it set at 7 o'clock 20 degrees north of west. At
sundown it has become overcast with heavy clouds, and my hopes are again raised; I trust we
may get it now. Midnight: still cloudy, and every appearance of rain. Wind changeable.

Saturday, 7th July, The Bonney Creek. Alas! all the clouds are again gone; our hopes were only
raised to be dashed down with greater disappointment. The wind has returned to its old quarter,
south-east. Natives still about, but they do not come near us. I shall now prepare for my return
on Monday morning; it is very disheartening.

Sunday, 8th July, The Bonney Creek. The weather has every appearance of being dry for some
time to come, not a cloud to be seen; the wind south-east, and very cold night and morning.
All hope of making the coast is now gone. On weighing our rations to-day, I find that we are
again short since we halted here. The man Ben has been making it a regular practice to steal
them since he has been with me. I have caught him several times doing so, and all the threats
and warnings of the consequences have had no effect upon him. They deter him for a day or two,
and then he is as bad as ever. I have been in the habit of reducing our allowance to make up
for the loss, which has been very hard upon Kekwick and myself; he has helped himself to about
double his allowance during the journey.

Monday, 9th July, The Bonney Creek. Started for the Davenport range, where we camped before;
the water is all dried up. Ascended the range, and changed my bearing to Mount Morphett, 196
degrees, in the Crawford range, in the hope of finding water there. At four miles struck the
creek that I have before crossed nearer to the range, found water, and camped to give my horses
every chance. I have named this creek Barker Creek, after Mr. Chambers' brother-in-law. I do
not think this water is permanent, but, from the number of birds that are passing up the creek,
I think there must be permanent water higher up. This range seems to yield a deal of water
on both sides. Native graves about.

Tuesday, 10th July, Barker Creek. Started at 6.30 on a bearing of 196 degrees towards Mount
Strzelecki. At six miles crossed a gum creek, coming from the range, and running to the west,
on my former track. I crossed it where it lost itself on the plain. The country is well grassed,
with a little spinifex occasionally, from the range to this point. At twelve miles it became
scrubby and sandy with a little grass, spinifex predominating, which continued to where we
camped. Wind, south-east.

Wednesday, 11th July, Scrub North-north-east of Mount Strzelecki. One of the horses having
parted from the others, and gone a long distance off in search of water, it was 9 o'clock before
we could get a start. At seven miles arrived at a lagoon north-east of Mount Strzelecki. Found
a little water and feed for the horses. Camped to give them the benefit of it. Wind, south-south-east.
Cold.

Thursday, 12th July, Lagoon North-east of Mount Strzelecki. Made an early start, crossing the
range, on a south course. Very rough and difficult. Could see no water. To the south-east of
Mount Morphett there is the appearance of a creek, and on the south-west there are also the
signs of a watered country, which is more hilly. Proceeded on through the thick dead mulga
scrub, to the north side of Forster range, where we camped at dark without water. The country
passed over to-day is splendidly grassed, especially as we approached the range. There is also
a little spinifex, but not much. Distance to-day, thirty-two miles.

Friday, 13th July, North Side of Forster Range. Started early, proceeding to the gum creek
coming from the north side of Forster's range, where we found a little water, numerous fresh
tracks of natives, and a great number of birds. I have named this the Barrow Creek, after J.H.
Barrow, Esquire, M.P. Crossed the range to the Stirling Creek, which we followed down, and
found an abundant supply of water. The upper part of it is now dry, and it is difficult to
say whether it is permanent or not; but, to judge from the number of native tracks and encampments,
and the many birds, I should think it is. The wood-duck is also on some of the pools. At dark
we can hear the natives down the creek.

Saturday, 14th July, Stirling Creek. I shall give the horses a rest to-day and to-morrow, for
I do not expect to get water before we reach the reservoir in the Reynolds range. I am afraid
it will be all gone in the Hanson and at the Centre.

Sunday, 15th July, Stirling Creek. Resting horses, etc., etc.

Monday, 16th July, Stirling Creek. The natives were prowling about during the night, and startled
three horses, which separated from the others, went off at full gallop, and were not recovered
till noon, about four miles off. Too late to start to-day, for which I am very sorry, as every
hour is now of the utmost value to us, in consequence of the evaporation of the water. Not
the slightest appearance of any rain yet. Wind, south.

Tuesday, 17th July, Stirling Creek. Proceeded to the Hanson. Shortly after we started, we were
followed by the natives, shouting as they came along, but keeping at a respectful distance.
They followed us through the scrub for about two hours, but when we came to the open ground
at the lagoons they went off. I intended to have halted and spoken to them there, thinking
it would not be safe to do so in the scrub. They were tall, powerful-looking fellows, and had
their arms with them. We then went on to the Hanson, crossing numerous fresh native tracks.
On nearing the water, we saw five blacks, who took fright and went off at full speed. There
were many more in the distance; in fact, they seemed to be very numerous about here. The country
all round was covered with their tracks. Found water still there, but had to clear the sand
away a little to give the horses a drink. Thinking that it would not be safe to camp in the
neighbourhood of so many natives, I went on to the Central Creek, and in going through some
scrub, we again disturbed some more, but could only see children, one a little fellow about
seven years old, who was cleaning some grass seeds in a worley, with a child who could just
walk. The moment he saw us he jumped up, and, seizing his father's spear, took the child by
the hand and walked off out of our way. It was quite pleasing to see the bold spirit of the
little fellow. On nearing Central Mount Stuart we saw two men, who made off into the scrub.
Arrived at the creek after dark, but the water is all gone. On examining the hole where the
water was, we discovered a small native well, with a very little water, too little to be of
any service to me. To-morrow morning I must push on through the scrub to Anna's Reservoir.
My horses are still very weak, and I do not think they will be able to do it in a day. Wind
variable.

Wednesday, 18th July, Centre. Starting early, we crossed the Hanson, and got through the scrub
to the gum plains, where we camped at sundown, the horses not being able to do the whole journey
in one day. The creeks empty themselves into the plains, but there is no water. Still, from
the number of birds that are about, I think there must be water not far away, but I have no
time to search for it. If I do not find water in the gum creek (which is doubtful) the horses
will have another long day's journey. They are suffering much from the dryness of the feed,
three of them being infected with worms. Wind, south-east.

Thursday, 19th July, Gum Plains. Made our way through the remainder of the scrub, and arrived
in the afternoon at the gum creek, where we found a little water, and clearing away the sand,
obtained enough for our horses. There will be enough for them to-day and to-morrow morning.
I shall therefore stop here for the rest of the day. There are some heavy clouds coming up
from the west and south-west, which I hope will give us rain. Wind still from the south-east.
The natives have been upon our old tracks through the whole of the scrub in great numbers,
and there are many traces of them about this creek, some of which are quite fresh. The drying
up of the water round about has compelled them to collect round this and other creeks which
are permanent.

Friday, 20th July, Gum Creek North-east of Mount Freeling. Crossed the Reynolds range to Anna's
Reservoir, which is still full of water. I may now say that this is permanent. The water we
camped at is gone, but there is still a little down the creek. We could not get enough for
the horses this morning in the creek we have left. Judging from the number of native tracks
that we have crossed this morning, there must be permanent water on the north side of the range,
which is composed of immense blocks of granite, apparently on the top of mica slate, with occasional
courses of quartz and ironstone. To the north-east of where we camped last night, about three
miles distant, is the point of the range, on which there is a very remarkable high peak, composed
of ironstone, with a number of very rough rounded ironstone hills. I have named this Mount
Freeling. Here I found indications of copper, the only place I have seen it in all this journey.
The natives do not seem to have frequented this reservoir much of late, as there were no fresh
tracks within two miles of it. In the creek close by, there were some very old worleys. No
rain; clouds all gone. Wind, still south-east.

Saturday, 21st July, Anna's Reservoir, Reynolds Range. I shall remain here till Monday morning
to rest the horses, for they need it much; they all have sore backs. A small pimple made its
appearance under the saddle, and has gradually spread into a large sore, which we cannot heal
up; it makes them very weak. The clouds have again made their appearance from the north-west,
and the wind has also changed to that quarter. I hope we shall now get some rain, so that I
can make short journeys for my horses, to enable them to gather strength. Two long journeys
on successive days without water would reduce them again to the same state of weakness as they
were in at the Bonney Creek. For the last fourteen days we have been getting a quantity of
the native cucumber and other vegetables, which have done me a great deal of good; the pains
in my limbs and back are much relieved, and I trust will soon go away altogether if these vegetables
hold out. We boil and eat the cucumbers with a little sugar, and in this way they are very
good, and resemble the gooseberry; we have obtained from one plant upwards of two gallons of
them, averaging from one to two inches in length, and an inch in breadth.

Sunday, 22nd July, Anna's Reservoir. On examining the creek near the reservoir, we have found
some more large and deep water holes. I have named this Wicksteed Creek. The clouds are again
heavy, and have every appearance of rain; they and the wind both come from the north-west.

Monday, 23rd July, Anna's Reservoir. No rain has fallen; again all the clouds are gone. Started
early for the spring in the North gorge, McDonnell range, which we noticed on April 14th. Camped
at dark in the thick scrub and spinifex. No feed for the horses, so we had to tie them up during
the night. Wind, south-east again.

Tuesday, 24th July, Dense Scrub and Spinifex. Started through the remainder of the scrub to
the gorge, where we arrived at 7 o'clock, after twelve hours' journey. Camped outside, and
drove the horses up to the spring. There is still the same supply of water; it is an excellent
spring, and might be of great importance to future exploration. I have named it Hamilton Spring.
Wind, variable.

Wednesday, 25th July, Hamilton Spring, McDonnell range. Resting the horses. Yesterday afternoon
we passed a great number of fresh tracks of natives apparently going to Hamilton Peak, which
leads me to think there must be permanent water there. The peak is very high--quite as high
as Mount Arden, but there is another part of the spur higher than it, to which I have given
the name of Mount Hugh; further to the west-north-west is a mount, still higher, which I have
named Mount Hay. Wind, north-east. It has been very hot to-day.

Thursday, 26th July, Hamilton Spring, McDonnell Range. Started across the ranges to Brinkley
Bluff, and camped on the east side. There is still plenty of water in the Hugh, although greatly
reduced. The natives have been following our former tracks in great numbers; some of their
foot-prints are very large. There is a great quantity of marble in this creek.

Friday, 27th July, Brinkley Bluff, McDonnell Range. Started down the Hugh, and camped on the
south side of Brinkley Bluff, finding plenty of water all the way, in holes of various sizes,
with reeds and rushes growing round them, with plenty of feed on the banks. Wind, variable.

Saturday, 28th July, The Hugh, South Side of Brinkley Bluff, McDonnell Range. Proceeded towards
the Waterhouse range, and stopped at my former camp of the 11th April. The spring still gives
out an abundance of water; we have also found another good spring on the south side of the
creek, which is here very broad, nearly two hundred yards wide, with a good feeding country
all round, and a small strip of salt-bush on the banks. Splendid gum-trees in the creek. Wind,
east; sun, hot.

Sunday, 29th July, The Hugh, between McDonnell and Waterhouse Ranges. Wind variable; some clouds
coming from the south-west.

Monday, 30th July, The Hugh, between McDonnell and Waterhouse Ranges. Proceeded towards the
range; at four miles crossed the creek, and half a mile further entered the ranges. We made
our former camp of April 9th on the creek, but no water, so followed it down to the westward,
and after clearing a hole, found sufficient for our wants in the sand. Camped. Very unwell.
Wind, south-east. Not a drop of rain has fallen since we were here before.

Tuesday, 31st July, Between the Waterhouse and James Ranges. Started on a course of 220 degrees,
following down the creek through James range, instead of crossing it. I am afraid there will
be no water at our camp on the south side. I have a chance of getting some in the range. At
two miles met with a good water hole, under a sandstone hill. At seven miles the creek enters
the range; the bed is broad, sandy, and gravelled. At twelve miles we found some water, and
camped, as I am too unwell to continue in the saddle any longer. Cleared a hole, and obtained
water sufficient for our purpose. Wind, south-east.

Wednesday, 1st August, In James Range, on the Hugh. Followed the creek through the remainder
of the range, and found water in four different places. I have not the least doubt that there
is plenty, but the creek is so broad, and divided into so many courses, that it would require
four men at least to examine it well. On arriving at our camp of the 7th April, we found all
the water gone. Scratched in the sand, and found a little moisture, but no water; after a fruitless
search of an hour, I was going back to the last water that I had seen, six miles distant, when
two emus came into the creek, and made for a large gum-tree in the middle. On going to it,
I found a fine hole of water round its roots. Camped. Wind the same.

Thursday, 2nd August, The Hugh, South Side of James Range. Went down the south side of the
creek, through good grassy country. At fourteen miles in a side creek we found a native well
about four feet deep. We camped here, as there is little prospect of finding any more water
in the Hugh, which is become broad and sandy. As to surface water, my men have neither the
strength nor the appliances for digging. There is plenty of water under this sand, but having
only a small tin dish, the labour is too great. My men have now lost all their former energy
and activity, and move about as if they were a hundred years old; it is sad to see them; our
horses, too, suffer very much from their sore backs. On the south side of the creek are some
isolated hills, chiefly composed of limestone, ironstone, quartz, and granite. This morning
there was ice on the water left in the tin dish, and also in the canteens, an eighth of an
inch thick. It was very cold.

Friday, 3rd August, James Range. I find the water in the well is nearly all gone this morning.
It would take us nine hours to water the horses here, so slowly does it come in; I must therefore
go back to our last camp. I shall follow the creek round, for there might be a chance of getting
some nearer. Saddled, and proceeded up the creek, and at four miles found a little under the
limestone rocks coming from a small side creek; gave the horses a drink turning back, and made
for the Finke on a course of 160 degrees. Crossing a few stony hills and small plains, at ten
miles, we ascended a broken table range, which I have named Warwick Range; it is composed of
hard grey limestone and ironstone. We then proceeded through a well-grassed country, with mulga
bushes, and at twenty miles camped under a redstone hill, not being able to get any further.
No water.

Saturday, 4th August, Small Hill between the Hugh and the Finke. The horses strayed a long
way in the night, so that I did not get them till after 11 o'clock this morning, and could
not start until noon. Passed over a country of much the same description as yesterday, crossing
three stony hills running nearly east and west, and at nine miles camped, without water, in
a fine grassy country, which, as the grass is green, will be quite a treat for the horses.
About six miles north of Chambers Pillar. Wind, south-east.

Sunday, 5th August, North of Chambers Pillar. At sunrise heavy clouds came up from the south-east,
bringing with them a very thick fog, through which I had great difficulty in steering my course;
it cleared off about 10 o'clock. I expected rain, but none has fallen; it is now quite clear
again. Arrived at the Finke at 12 o'clock, and was very much surprised to find so little water.
I had no idea it would have gone away so soon. The bed is very broad and sandy, which is the
cause of the rapid disappearance of the large quantity that I saw when I crossed before. This
is a great disappointment, as it was my intention to run it down, in the hope that it would
take me into South Australia. I shall go one day's journey down, and see what it is; if I can
find no more water I must return to this, to rest my horses, and push for the Stevenson. I
cannot remain here, for this water will only last a short time. My provisions will barely carry
me down, and there is not the least appearance of rain. I am afraid my retreat is cut off.
Wind, south-east. Clouds.

Monday, 6th August, The Finke. Thick fog again this morning. From the heavy clouds that have
passed yesterday to the south of us, I think a shower of rain may have fallen there; I ought
not to allow the chance of it to escape, as it is likely to be my only one until the equinox,
and I have not provisions sufficient to remain until that time, so I must push the horses as
far as they will go, and then we must walk the rest, which is a very black prospect, considering
the weak state we all are in. Proceeded to the south-east, having camped on my former course
at two clay-pans, where I think there is a chance of water, if a shower has fallen there. Started
on our former course and arrived at the clay-pans without seeing a drop of water; neither is
there any in them. Camped; the horses being very tired, from coming through so many sand hills.

Tuesday, 7th August, Clay-pans in Sand Hills. A light dew fell last night and this morning,
which I am very glad of; it will be a good thing for the horses. Kekwick was unwell last night,
but I cannot stop on his account. He must endure it the best way he can. If I find water at
where I suppose the Finke joins the gum creek that runs a little north of Mount Humphries,
I will remain there a day to give him rest. He is completely done up. I hope he will not get
worse. I must push back as quickly as possible, and get him into the settled districts. At
noon we made the Finke. Still the same white, sandy bed; but here it is about a quarter of
a mile broad, and the east bank is composed of white sandstone, with a course of light slate
on the top of it, then courses of limestone and other rocks, and, on the top of all, red sand
hills. The gum-trees are not so large as they are further north. On first striking the creek
we could find no water, but, by following it down for a short distance, we discovered a little,
which will do for us. It is more than I expected, and I feel most thankful for it. Kekwick
still very ill. Poor fellow, he is suffering very much. I dare not show him much pity, or I
should have the other giving in altogether. I hope and trust he will soon get better again,
and that to-morrow's rest may do him good. He has been a most valuable man to me. I place entire
confidence in him. A better one I could not have got. I wish the other had been like him, and
then neither he nor I should have suffered so much from hunger. Wind, south-east.

Wednesday, 8th August, The Finke. Resting Kekwick and shoeing horses. This water was going
away very rapidly, so I rode down the creek for ten miles to see if there were any more, that
I may risk following it down. After joining the West Creek it spreads itself over a broad valley,
bounded on the north by sand hills and on the south by stony hills. Course, eastward. It is
divided into numerous courses; very sandy, and immense quantities of drift wood about it. Some
very large gum-trees piled high on the banks, and a great number of birds of every description;
but I could find no water. It is so broad, with so many courses, that it would require half
a dozen men to examine it well. If we were to stay searching for water here, and be unsuccessful,
and the creeks on ahead were to be dried up, we should lose our horses and have to walk, which
Kekwick could not do. I do not consider it would be right thus to risk his life. I shall therefore
make for the Stevenson, where I am almost certain to find water. Wind, east.

Thursday, 9th August, The Finke. Started early on our former tracks, passing Mount Humphrey
and Mount Beddome. Camped at our old place. I should think from the appearance of the country
that the Finke takes a south-east course from where I left it yesterday. The hills run that
way. Wind, south-south-east.

Friday, 10th August, South of Mount Beddome. Proceeded on our former course to the Stevenson,
which we made a little before dark, and found water, but I am quite surprised to see so little
of it left. The fine large holes are nearly dry. Wind, east.

Saturday, 11th August, The Stevenson. The horses having lost some shoes, I am forced to remain
here to-day to put others on. There is more water a little further down the creek, at which
I camped. No rain seems to have fallen since I was here before. The sun has been very hot to-day.
Wind, east-south-east.

Sunday, 12th August, The Stevenson. I was too unwell to move yesterday, but, feeling a little
better this morning, I rode down the creek. For three miles it takes a south-east course, then
east-south-east through table land, with rocky and precipitous hills on each side. I then went
on a south-east course for nine miles, through a splendidly-grassed country, with numerous
small creeks running into the Stevenson. During my ride I found plenty of water, and splendid
grass, up to the saddle-flaps, and quite green. Ducks and numerous other birds abound here;
the water is quite alive with them. I regret that I have not provisions enough to enable me
to follow this creek round its different bends. It is a splendid feeding country for cattle,
and much resembles Chambers Creek. Wind, south-east.

Monday, 13th August, The Stevenson. Started on a course of 135 degrees to see if the Stevenson
comes from the south; continued on the table land, from where I left it yesterday for sixteen
miles from last night's camp, when we suddenly dropped into the bed of a large broad sandy
gum-creek, coming from the west, which I find to be the Ross. There are many rushes about it;
it runs in three or four courses, in all of which water can be obtained by scratching in the
sand. There are plenty of birds. It is evidently raining to the east of this. Camped. My course
takes me across the middle of a range, which I shall endeavour to cross to-morrow. There are
two small springs, but they are brackish. Wind, south.

Tuesday, 14th August, The Ross. Started on the same course, 135 degrees, and again ascended
the stony table land. Crossing thence, we met two small myall-creeks running north-east with
birds upon them. At seven miles crossed another, and found a fine large deep water hole with
ducks on it. We again ascended the table land, which continued to the range, and at sixteen
miles gained the top, which is table land about a mile broad; the view is extensive to the
east-north-east and north. We descended on a course of 175 degrees to search for water in the
creek below. We crossed a number of myall-creeks, coming from the range, and running south-east;
in many the water has just dried up. At six miles on the same course we found water and camped,
the horses being tired by their rough journey. This water hole is not permanent although when
full it is deep and large, and will last a considerable time. The Stevenson and Ross seem to
take a north-east course. On a further examination of this creek I found a large hole of water
about two hundred yards long and thirty broad, with birds upon it, and plants that grow round
permanent water. I also found shells. This creek I have named Anderson Creek, after James Anderson,
Esquire, of Port Lincoln, and the range Bagot Range, after the Honourable the Commissioner
of Crown Lands.

Wednesday, 15th August, Anderson Creek. Started towards the south-east point of Bagot range,
which I find to be five miles distant. The country between is undulating and stony, with plenty
of grass. To the east, about thirty miles, is a high isolated hill, bearing 100 degrees. At
six miles and a half crossed a myall and gum creek, in which, about a mile to the east, under
a red bank, is a large water hole, seemingly permanent. At ten miles crossed the Frew, whose
bed is sandy, and has many courses, the banks being covered with rushes. The rest of the day's
journey was through mallee scrub and sand hills, in which we camped without water; the feed,
however, is abundant, yet not so thick as when I crossed before.* (* See ante, March 28, 29,
and 30.) Wind, south.

Thursday, 16th August, Mulga Scrub and Sand Hills. Started at 7 o'clock on a course of 170
degrees, and in four hours made the Neale, and camped, as there was still plenty of water.

Friday, 17th August, The Neale. Proceeded on a south-east course, and camped on a side branch
of the Neale, with plenty of water in large holes. Wind, east.

Saturday, 18th August, Side Branch of the Neale. Proceeded towards the gap in Hanson range,
and camped near one of the large water holes. It is very cloudy.

Sunday, 19th August, Gap in the Hanson Range. Still cloudy, and looks like rain, so we must
push on to-day, in case the Peake River should come down and stop us, which would not suit
the state of my provisions, as we have lost a quantity of flour by the scrub scoring the bags,
and we have not enough to take us to Chambers Creek. At eight miles camped west-north-west
of Freeling Springs, having given the horses a drink in crossing the Neale.

Monday, 20th August, Sand Hills West-north-west of Freeling Springs. It still threatens for
rain. Proceeded to Kekwick Springs to see if the horse we had left in the Peake had got out.
We found his bones; he does not seem to have made a struggle since we left him, as he is in
the same position. From the number of tracks, the natives must have visited him. Proceeded
to Freeling Springs and camped. There were a number of ducks and two swans on the large water
hole. We shot one of the latter, which was a great treat to our half-starved party. Wind variable.

Tuesday, 21st August, Freeling Springs. Still cloudy, and we had a few drops of rain during
the night; also distant thunder and lightning. Resting horses. Wind, north-east.

Wednesday, 22nd August, Freeling Springs. Proceeded through Denison range, and camped at the
Milne Springs. Wind, north-east. Still cloudy, but no rain.

Thursday, 23rd August, Milne Springs. Went on and camped at Louden Spa. Wind variable.

Friday, 24th August, Louden Spa. Camped at the William Springs. Wind, north-west.

Saturday, 25th August, William Springs. Proceeded to the Strangway and Beresford Springs, and
camped at Paisley Ponds. Wind, north-east.

Sunday, 26th August, Paisley Ponds. During the night thunder and lightning from the north-west,
with a few drops of rain. Cloudy this morning; had a few showers on our journey to Hamilton
Springs. Found Mr. Brodie camped there three miles south-east of Mount Hamilton. He received
and treated us with the greatest kindness.

Mr. Stuart and his party remained at Hamilton Springs until 1st September, when they proceeded
to Chambers Creek, where, having reached the settled districts, his journal ends.

When Mr. Stuart reached Adelaide, in October, 1860, on his return from his last expedition,
bringing with him the intelligence that he had penetrated to the northward almost as far as
the eighteenth degree of south latitude, and had only been forced to retreat by the hostility
of the natives, the South Australian Parliament voted a sum of 2500 pounds for a larger, better-armed,
and more perfectly organized party, of which he was to be the leader. The ill-fated Victorian
expedition, under Burke and Wills, had already started from Melbourne, on the previous 20th
of August, amid all the excitement of a popular ovation, but a messenger was instantly despatched
by the Victorian Government to overtake them, in order to give them what information the South
Australian Government allowed to be known. On the 29th of November Mr. Stuart was ready to
start once more, and left Moolooloo with seven men and thirty horses, arriving at Mr. Glen's
station on the 1st of December, and at Goolong Springs on the 4th. He was delayed at the latter
place for several days, in consequence of the horses, and more especially the town horses,
being unmanageable and unequal to their work. The party reached Welcome Springs on the 8th,
and Finniss Springs on the 11th. The water at Finniss Springs seemed to have an injurious influence
on the town horses, but those that had been with Mr. Stuart on his previous journeys were not
so much affected. The following evening they arrived at Chambers Creek, where they remained
until the end of the month.

During their stay at Chambers Creek they were occupied in killing and drying bullocks, mending
saddles, weighing rations, shoeing horses, and generally preparing to start. Several of the
horses, which had been knocked up and left behind on the way, had to be brought up; others
became quite blind, one was lost, and one died. On the 31st of December four fresh horses arrived,
which had been kindly sent up by Mr. Finke the moment he heard of the difficulty in which Mr.
Stuart was placed. The party was also further increased, both by horses and men, so that when
it left Chambers Creek, on the 1st of January, 1861, it numbered twelve men and forty-nine
horses. The following is the list of those who started:--

John McDouall Stuart, Leader of the Expedition. William Kekwick, Second in Command. F. Thring,
Third Officer. -- Ewart, Storekeeper. -- Sullivan, Shoeing Smith. -- Thompson, Saddler. --
Lawrence. -- Masters. J. Woodforde. -- Wall. E.E. Bayliffe. J. Thomas.

Shortly after starting, the horses that Mr. Finke sent up went off at a gallop, taking with
them one of the others; but, at about a mile, they were headed by Ewart, Wall, and Lawrence,
and brought back covered with sweat. Not content with this gallop, in a short time afterwards
they bolted again. This last one seemed to content them, for they went very quietly for the
rest of the day; they had, however, lost a pick, which could not be found. The party arrived
at Mr. Ferguson's station, at Hamilton Springs, that evening. Louden Spa was reached on the
8th of January. The next day Mr. Stuart writes:

"Wednesday, 9th January, Louden Spa. I am obliged to leave two horses. I thought that I should
have been able to have got them down as far as Mr. Levi's station. There are three others that
I must leave behind; they are now nearly useless to me, and cause more delay than I can afford.
I shall reduce my party to ten individuals, in order to lighten the horses that I take with
me. I shall take thirty weeks' provisions; the rest I shall leave there (Mr. Levi's station).
The two men who are to return are to have a month's provisions to carry them down. They will
be here two weeks, and if the horses have not recovered by that time, they will remain another
week, when they will have one week's provisions to take them to Chambers Creek, where they
will get enough to carry them to the mine."

Bayliffe and Thomas were the two men selected to return, and it may not be without interest
to follow them back to the settled districts. They did not arrive at Melrose, Mount Remarkable,
until the latter end of March. Thomas was suffering severely from rheumatism, and had to be
conveyed in a cart for the last six miles of his journey from a place where he and his companion
had camped for the purpose of recruiting themselves. They had been obliged to leave two of
the horses at Mr. Mather's station, and two more had died on the road. The men arrived with
one horse only, which they were using as a pack-horse.

But to return to the rest of the party, who reached Mr. Levi's station the same evening (January
9th) on which they parted from the two men. On Friday, January 11th, Mr. Stuart writes:

"I have now all put in order, and consider myself fairly started, with thirty weeks' provisions.
Day extremely hot. An eclipse of the sun took place at noon. Although our poor little dog Toby
is carried on one of the pack-horses, he is unable to bear this great heat. I fear he will
not survive the day. Arrived at Milne Springs about 5 p.m. At sundown poor little Toby died,
regretted by us all, for he had already become a great favourite."

On January 21st Mr. Stuart reached the Neale Creek, a little to the east of where he struck
it before, but found that the large bodies of water had nearly all gone; by digging in the
sand of the main channel, however, they obtained sufficient for their immediate wants. Exploring
parties were despatched up and down the creek, and returned, reporting abundance of water eight
miles above and five miles below where they were. They also brought back with them some fish,
resembling the bream, which were very palatable when cooked. An attack of dysentery prevented
Mr. Stuart from proceeding for a few days, and, during his stay, the natives, while studiously
keeping themselves out of sight, set fire to the surrounding grass. On the 27th the expedition
arrived at the Hamilton, after a heavy journey of thirty-five miles. "I observed," says Mr.
Stuart, "a peculiar feature in one of the families of the mulga bushes; the branches seemed
to be covered with hoar frost, but on closer examination it turned out to be a substance resembling
honey in taste and thickness. It was transparent, and presented a very pretty appearance when
the sun shone upon it, making the branches look as though they were hung with small diamonds."

The course now taken was through Bagot range to the Stevenson, where they arrived on February
1st. The next day they proceeded northward, and at eight miles came upon a large water hole,
which was named Lindsay Creek, after J. Lindsay, Esquire, M.L.A. This water hole was one hundred
and fifty yards long, thirty wide, and from eight to fifteen feet deep in the deepest parts.
The native cucumber was growing upon its banks, and the feed was abundant. Here they met with
immense numbers of brown pigeons, of the same description as those found by Captain Sturt in
1845. There were thousands of them; in fact, they flew by in such dense masses that, on two
occasions, Woodforde killed thirteen with a single shot. The travellers pronounced them first-rate
eating. Many natives, tall, powerful fellows, were seen, but they did not speak with them.
After trying for water in the neighbourhood of Mount Daniel, they were compelled to return
to Lindsay Creek, which they did not quit until February 9th, when they camped on another creek,
which was named the Coglin, after P.B. Coglin, Esquire, M.L.A. From this place Mr. Stuart started,
accompanied by Thring and Woodforde, to examine the condition of the Finke, and found its bed
broad, and filled with white drift sand, but without water. A hole ten feet deep was sunk in
the sand, but just as the increasing moisture gave them hope of finding water, the sides gave
way, and Thring had a narrow escape of being buried alive. After sinking several other holes,
but without success, they turned to another creek, coming more from the westward, and in a
short time discovered six native wells near to what was evidently a large camping-place of
the natives. The ground for one hundred yards round was covered with worleys, and at one spot
they seemed to have had a grand corroberrie, the earth being trodden quite hard, as if a large
number had been dancing upon it in a circle. They had left one of their spears behind, a formidable
weapon about ten feet long, with a flat round point, the other end being made for throwing
with the womera. On the 13th Mr. Stuart and his two companions returned to the camp on the
Coglin, after discovering a place about four miles from the six native wells, where sufficient
water could be obtained by digging. On the 14th three of the men were sent in advance to dig
a hole at this place, and the following day the whole party moved forward to join them. Here
the natives annoyed them much by setting fire to the grass in every direction.

Marchant Springs (on the Finke) were reached on February 22nd, and here Mr. Stuart noticed
a remarkable specimen of native carving. He says: "The natives had made a drawing on the bark
of two trees--two figures in the shape of hearts, intended, I suppose, to represent shields.
There was a bar down the centre, on either side of which were marks like broad arrows. On the
outside were also a number of arrows, and other small marks. I had a copy of them taken. This
was the first attempt at representation by the natives of Australia which I had ever seen."

Following the course of the Finke, they arrived on the 25th at some springs which were rendered
memorable by Mr. Stuart's favourite mare Polly. She became very ill, and on the morning of
the 26th slipped her foal. Polly had been with her master on all his previous journeys, and
was much too valuable and faithful a creature to be left behind; besides, she was second to
none in enduring hardship and fatigue. They therefore waited another night to give her time
to recover, and Mr. Stuart named the springs Polly Springs in her honour. On the 27th they
again moved northwards, still following the course of the Finke, and, after a short journey
of ten miles, camped at what were afterwards called Bennett Springs. It is worthy of remark
that while the horses were in this water drinking, one of them kicked out a fish about eight
inches long and three broad--an excellent sign of the permanency of the water. Here several
of the horses were taken violently ill, and the next morning one of them could not be found.
Mr. Stuart writes:

"Thursday, 28th February, The Finke, Bennett Springs. Found all the horses but one named Bennett.
Sent two of the party out in search of him; at 9 a.m. they returned, having been all round,
but could see nothing of him. I then sent out four, to go round the tracks and see if he had
strayed into the sand hills. At noon they returned unsuccessful. Sent five men to search, but
at 2 p.m. they likewise returned without having discovered him. I then went out myself, and,
in half-an-hour, found the poor animal lying dead in a hole, very much swollen. Blood seemed
to have come from his mouth and nostrils. He must have died during the night. I am afraid that
there is some description of poisonous plant in the sand hills, and that the horses have eaten
some of it. As he lay he appeared to have been coming from the sand hills, and making for the
water. He seemed to have fallen down three times before he died. I never saw horses taken in
the same way before--in a moment they fell down and became quite paralysed. The cream-coloured
horse, that was taken so ill last night, must also have eaten the poison. We were upwards of
two hours before we could get him right. As soon as he got on his legs, his limbs shook so
that he immediately fell down. This he did for more than a dozen times. As we were very much
in want of hobble-straps, I sent Mr. Kekwick, with three others, to take Bennett's skin and
shoes off. We found no indication of poison on opening him. This is a very great loss to me,
for he was one of my best packhorses--one that had been with me before, and that I could depend
upon for a hard push."

On the 2nd March, while still following the course of the Finke, they passed two or three holes
containing fish about eight inches long, and enclosed by small brush fences, apparently for
the purpose of catching fish. They also saw a lot of shields, spears, waddies, etc., which
the natives had deposited under a bush. As to the aborigines themselves, although it was evident
there were plenty of them about, they never allowed themselves to be seen. There was an abundance
of timber which Mr. Stuart says would be well suited for electric-telegraph poles.

Mr. Stuart's journal continues as follows:

Tuesday, 5th March, The Finke. Started at 8.5 a.m., bearing 345 degrees, for the Hugh, with
Thring and Lawrence. On arriving there found the water nearly all gone, only a little in a
well dug by the natives; cleared it out, but it took us until 12 p.m. to water the four horses.
At three miles further, we passed round a high conspicuous table hill, having a slanting and
shelving front to the south; this I have named Mount Santo, after Philip Santo, Esquire, M.P.
The country passed over to-day has been sand hills, with spinifex, grassy plains, with mulga
and other shrubs, and occasionally low table-topped hills, composed of sand, lime, and ironstone,
also the hard whitish flinty rock; kangaroo plentiful, but very wild. Wind south-east. The
day has been very hot; horses very tired.

Wednesday, 6th March, The Hugh. Started at 8.45 a.m. on a bearing of 209 degrees. At nine miles,
finding the water gone that I had seen on my last return, I dug down to the clay, and obtained
a little, but not enough for us. Followed the creek up into the gorge, and found it very dry.
Our former tracks are still visible in the bed of the creek. No rain seems to have fallen here
since last March. I had almost given up all hopes of finding any water, when, at seven miles,
we met with a few rushes, which revived our sinking hopes; and, at eight miles, our eyes and
ears were delighted with the sight and sound of numerous diamond birds, a sure sign of the
proximity of water. At the mouth of a side creek coming from the James range, on the eastern
side of the Hugh, found an excellent water hole, apparently both deep and permanent. We saw
a native and his lubra at the upper end at a brush fence in the water; they appeared to be
fishing, and did not see us until I called to them. The female was the first who left the water;
she ran to the bank, took up her child, and made for a tree, up which she climbed, pushing
her young one up before her. She was a tall, well-made woman. The man (an old fellow), tall,
stout, and robust, although startled at our appearance, took it leisurely in getting out of
the water, ascended the bank, and had a look at us; he then addressed us in his own language,
and seemed to work himself up into a great passion, stopping every now and then and spitting
fiercely at us like an old tiger. He also ascended the tree, and then gave us a second edition
of it. We leisurely watered our horses, and he was very much surprised to see Thring dismount
and lead the pack-horse down to the water, so much so that he never said another word, but
remained staring at us until we departed, when he commenced again. This water being sufficient
for my purpose, I will go no further up the creek, but return to the last night's camp. Wind,
south-east.

Thursday, 7th March, The Hugh. As my horses are very tired, and the distance between my main
camp on the Finke and the water we discovered yesterday being upwards of fifty miles, I will
remain here to-day, dig down to the clay, and try if I can obtain enough water for all the
party; for, owing to the extreme heat, and the dryness of the feed, many of our weak horses
are unable to go a night without water. By 8 p.m. we dug a trench ten feet long, two feet and
a half deep, and two feet and a half broad; it is about twelve feet below the level of the
creek. We have had a very hard day's work. Wind, south-east. Day very hot.

Friday, 8th March, The Hugh. This morning very cold; wind, still south-east. The trench is
quite full; our four horses made very little impression on it. I shall send up and enlarge
the trench, so that we may be enabled to water the whole lot. At 6.40 a.m. started back for
the camp. At 1.45 p.m. halted to give the horses a little rest. At 2.30 p.m. changed to 184
degrees, and at four miles reached the table hills, but there was no creek, only a number of
clay-pans, all quite dry, with stunted gum-trees growing round them. Changed my bearing to
Mount Santo, passing a number of clay-pans of the same description; from thence proceeded to
the camp; arrived there at sundown, and found all right. Plenty of water; the horses make little
impression on it. Wind, south-east.

Saturday, 9th March, The Finke. I shall give Thring a rest to-day, and will send him with two
others, and a part of the horses, to-morrow to the Hugh, to make a place large enough to water
all. From about 2 a.m. until after sunrise the morning has been very cold. Wind, south-east.

Sunday, 10th March, The Finke. At 7 a.m. despatched Thring, Thompson, and Sullivan, with eleven
pack and three riding-horses, to the Hugh to dig a tank. Wind, still south-east; clouds east.

Monday, 11th March, The Finke. Clouds all gone; wind still south-east. I will remain here to-day
with the rest of the party, to give the others time to have all ready for us when we arrive.
One of the horses missing; found him in the afternoon. Wind variable.

Tuesday, 12th March, The Finke. Started at 8.30 a.m. for the Hugh, course 345 degrees, following
our former tracks. The day has been exceedingly hot; wind from east and south-east, with heavy
clouds in the same direction. About 3 p.m. missed the party that was behind; they were last
seen about one mile and a half back. Thinking that the packs had gone wrong, and that they
were remaining behind to repair them, I waited an hour, but finding they did not come up, I
sent Ewart back to the place where they were last seen to find out what was wrong; in an hour
he returned, and informed me that their tracks were going away to the eastward. As the James
range was in sight, and two of the party had been there before, I concluded that they must
have lost my tracks and were pushing on for the water. This loss of two hours would make it
late before we arrived there, so we hurried on; but within four miles it became so dark, from
the sky being overcast with heavy clouds, and the mulga bushes being so thick, that we were
in great danger of losing some of our pack-horses, for we could not see them more than ten
yards off. I therefore camped until daylight, having to tie the horses during the night. Wind
variable.

Wednesday, 13th March, Between the Finke and the Hugh. Started at daybreak; and in a little
more than an hour arrived at the Hugh; found that Thring had gone up the creek to the other
water, not finding enough here for the horses he had with him. We could only get sufficient
for ten of ours. As the fire was still alight, I was led to believe that the other party had
arrived here last night, having had two hours more sunlight than we, and that they, seeing
Thring's note to me, which he had fastened on a tree, and also the small quantity of water,
had watered their horses last night, and gone on this morning, leaving the water that had accumulated
during the night for us and our horses; we cleared out the hole in order to obtain sufficient
for our other five. At about 10 a.m. had breakfast; before we finished, the other party came
in sight; they had lost the tracks, and could not find them again. They made the creek about
one mile to the eastward. Unsaddled and gave their horses a rest, and as much water as we could
get for the weak ones; those of mine which have had none will have to go without. By 1 p.m.
obtained a drink for seven of them. Pushed on to the other water, fifteen miles up the creek;
arrived there a little before sundown. The day, although cloudy, has been very hot. Found Thring
and his party all right. They had seen no more of our spitting friend. Wind variable, with
heavy clouds from east and south-east, but still no rain.

Thursday, 14th March, The Hugh, James Range. As the done-up horses will not be able to travel
to-day, I have sent Thring and Wall up the creek to look for other water. Sky still overcast.
No rain. Thring and Wall returned in the afternoon, having found water a little below the surface,
about nine miles up; a very light shower has fallen. Wind all round the compass.

Friday, 15th March, The Hugh, James Range. A few drops of rain have fallen during the night,
but this morning it seems to be breaking up again, which is a great disappointment. Started
at 8 a.m., course 10 degrees west of north; passed through the gorge in James range, found
all the water gone that I had seen on my journey down; followed up the creek to the native
wells that Thring found yesterday. This water is situated about one mile and a half from where
the creek enters the gorge in James range, and under a concrete bank on the north side. The
natives seem to have quitted this water on hearing us coming, for they have left behind them
a large, long, and unfinished spear, two smaller ones, and some waddies, one of which was quite
wet, as if the owner had been in the act of clearing out one of the wells when he heard or
saw us coming: he also left a shield cut out of solid wood, which I think was, from its lightness,
cork-wood. I also observed on one of the gum-trees, marks similar to those which I saw on the
Finke, broad arrows and a wavy line round the tree. Still cloudy, but much broken. No rain.
Wind, south-east.

Saturday, 16th March, The Hugh, James Range. Rain all gone. Proceeded up the creek, course
30 degrees, to examine the east bend before it enters the Waterhouse range; in about six miles
arrived and followed it upwards, pushing on through the gorge to the large water I had previously
seen on the north side of the range; found it gone, but water in some native wells in its bed.
Proceeded on to the second bend of the creek from Waterhouse range, to a water which I consider
to be a spring (it is under conglomerate rock), and am glad to see that there is still a large
hole of beautiful water, with bulrushes growing round about it. Camped. This water I have named
Owen Springs, after William Owen, Esquire, M.P. Wind variable, from south-east to north-east.
Cloudy.

Sunday, 17th March, Owen Springs, The Hugh. During the night we had a few light showers, which
will be of great advantage to us, causing the green feed to spring up. The morning still cloudy;
wind from the east, with a few drops of rain. Wind still variable--all round the compass.

Monday, 18th March, Owen Springs, The Hugh. Very heavy clouds this morning; and it seemed as
if it was setting in for a wet day, but it cleared off, and only a little rain fell. Wind still
all round the compass.

Tuesday, 19th March, Owen Springs, The Hugh. Saddled and started for Brinkley Bluff, bearing
349 degrees. After entering the McDonnell range the water is permanent. It has been here for
twelve months; no rain has fallen during that time, for my former tracks, both up and down,
are as distinct as if they had been made a month ago. At 3.30 p.m. camped at the waterhole
about a mile north-west of Brinkley Bluff; it is situated under a rocky cliff. There are some
seams of beautiful grey granite crossing the creek, and abundance of marble of all colours,
also a little iron and limestone. We found some specimens of the palm tree, but there is neither
seed nor blossom at this season of the year. Lawrence got one of the leaves, ate the lower
end of it, and found it sweet--resembling sugar-cane; he ate a few inches of it, and in about
two hours became very sick, and vomited a good deal during the evening. Wind variable; but
mostly south-east, with heavy thunder clouds.

Wednesday, 20th March, Brinkley Bluff, McDonnell Range. About 1 p.m. we were delighted with
the sight and feeling of heavy rain. At about 4 the creek came down, and by sunrise it was
running at the rate of five miles an hour--a new and delightful sight to behold. At about 9
the clouds were breaking and the rain lighter. We were all truly thankful for this great boon.
It is too wet to move to-day; the horses are bogging up to their knees. After sundown we had
a heavy thunder storm, accompanied by vivid lightning, and heavy rain from south-east and east.
Wind from same direction.

Thursday, 21st March, Brinkley Bluff, McDonnell Range. Rain has continued at intervals during
the night; a great deal has fallen. A horse having gone into the creek to drink during the
night, one of his hobbles became undone, and got fastened to his hind shoe. He was found this
morning up to his body in water, and unable to move. Having relieved him, it was with difficulty
he could get out. He is in a tremble all over, and can scarcely walk. The ground is so soft,
even on the hills, that we cannot walk without sinking above the ankle. I should gain nothing
by starting to-day. It would injure the horses more than a week's travelling.

Friday, 22nd March, Brinkley Bluff, McDonnell Range. About 1 a.m. the rain came down in torrents,
and continued until nearly sunrise, from south-east. Wind from same quarter. It is impossible
to move to-day. The creek is higher than it has been before, and running with great rapidity.
All the horses were found right this morning but the one which got into the creek yesterday.
After searching all the hills and the creeks round about, he was found in a small gully by himself.

Saturday, 23rd March, Brinkley Bluff, McDonnell Range. Heavy shower of rain about 4 a.m. this
morning. After sunrise it all cleared away and became fine. Started at 8.20 to cross the northern
portion of the range by following the creek up. We have had a very hard and difficult journey
of it. It is now 4 p.m., and we have arrived at Hamilton Springs. The ground was so soft, even
at the top of the ranges, that we had the greatest difficulty in getting the horses through.
We did so, however, with the loss of a great number of shoes, and many of the horses were very
lame. Wind still south-east.

Sunday 24th March, Hamilton Springs. I am compelled to have some of the horses shod to-day,
and also to have a number of saddle-bags mended, which were torn by the scrub yesterday. This
afternoon there is a great deal of thunder and lightning in the north and north-east.

Monday, 25th March, Hamilton Springs. Part of the horses missing this morning in consequence
of the green feed; did not get a start until 10.20 a.m.; bearing 43 degrees. The country became
so boggy after seven miles that we were unable to proceed further than eleven miles. There
being no surface water, although the ground was so soft that the horses kept bogging up to
their bodies, we were forced to retreat five miles to obtain some for them. Wind south-east,
the stormy weather apparently breaking up. Camped at 5 p.m. Latitude, 23 degrees 28 minutes
51 seconds.

Tuesday, 26th March, Scrub North-east of Hamilton Springs. Started at 9 a.m. on a south-south-east
course to round the boggy country. At about six miles we were enabled to cross the lower part,
and go in the direction of a low range. Camped on the north-east side of it. The last four
miles were over fair travelling-country of a red soil, with mulga and other bushes, in some
places rather thick, abounding in green grass. We also passed many bushes of the honey mulga,
but the season is passed, and it is all dried up. Wind, east. Latitude by Pollux, 23 degrees
24 minutes 51 seconds; by Jupiter, 23 degrees 24 minutes 52 seconds.

Wednesday, 27th March, Low Granite Range in Scrub. More than half of the horses are missing
this morning; at noon we have managed to get all but ten; they are scattered all over the place;
at 5 p.m. they cannot be found, and the water is nearly all gone, and the country much dried
towards Strangway range. I have sent the horses four miles back to a large clay-pan that we
saw yesterday, to remain there to-night and in the morning to return. Two of the party to separate
from there, and to go in search of the missing horses, which I suppose have gone back to the
Hamilton Springs; it is very vexing, some of our best are amongst them. Wind, east.

Thursday, 28th March, Low Granite Range in Scrub. At 11 a.m. the horses were brought back from
the clay-pan. Two of the missing ones were found about a mile after they started, making towards
where they had camped last night. I think that the other eight must be also in that direction;
we find that all the tracks have gone that way; I shall therefore move down to-day to the south
end of the swampy country, which I know they cannot cross, and endeavour, if possible, to find
them to-night. By 1 p.m. arrived at the end of the swamp; camped, and despatched Thring in
one direction and Sullivan in another to try and cut their tracks; at a little before sunset
Sullivan returned with three of the missing ones. Five are still wanting. Wind, south-east.

Friday, 29th March, South End of Swamp in Scrub. At sunrise sent Thring and Sullivan again
to look for the missing horses; they arrived at 5 p.m. with three of them. If we do not find
the other two to-morrow, I shall push on without them, and endeavour to pick them up on our return.

Saturday, 30th March, South End of Swamp in Scrub. Again sent Thring and Sullivan in search
of the two remaining horses; at about 11 a.m. they returned with them. I shall now move up
to our camp of 25th instant. Camped at some rain water a little south of our former place,
where there is plenty of feed for the horses. Wind, south-east; clouds from north-west.

Sunday, 31st March, Rain Water in Scrub. All day the sky has been overcast with clouds from
the north-west. Wind from south-east.

Monday, 1st April, Same Place. Started at 7.30 a.m.; course, 330 degrees. At 1 p.m. we came
upon a very pretty flat of beautiful grass, with water in the middle of it; and, as the afternoon
has every appearance of rain, I have camped--to go on in the rain will only spoil our provisions.
We had scarcely got the packs off when it came on heavily, and lasted about an hour: it then
ceased until sundown, when it came on again, and continued till 10.30 p.m.

Tuesday, 2nd April, Green Flat in Scrub. Started at 8.20 a.m. on same course, and camped at
1.30 p.m. under a prominent rocky hill, which I ascended and have named Mount Harris, after
Peter G. Harris, Esquire, of Adelaide. I obtained bearings of the different points all round.
The last seven miles was sandy soil, with spinifex and scrub, which was mostly young cork-tree,
and the broad-leafed mallee.

Wednesday, 3rd April, Mount Harris. We have put up a small cone of stones on the top of this
mount. Started at 8 a.m. for Anna's Reservoir. Arrived at the creek about two miles south-south-east
of it, and, finding it running, camped amongst excellent feed. By keeping to west of my former
track I have found the country much opener; but nearly all day the journey has been through
spinifex. Wind from west.

Thursday, 4th April, The Wicksteed, Reynolds Range. Started at 7.40 a.m. to cross the range,
bearing to Mount Freeling 312 degrees. At 1.30 p.m. crossed the range, and arrived at the creek,
camping at the same place as I did on my previous journey, and finding water and feed abundant.
I have named this creek the Woodforde, after Dr. Woodforde, of Adelaide. After crossing the
range, we found the bean-tree in blossom; it was magnificent. I have obtained a specimen of
it; also some beans, a number of which were of a cream colour; we have roasted a few of them,
and find that they make very good coffee. Wind, south-east.

Friday, 5th April, The Woodforde, Reynolds Range. Started at 7.30 a.m. Camped at 4.30 p.m.
on the Hanson, which is now a running stream. About five miles back we passed a freshly-built
native worley. I observed a peculiarity in it which I never noticed in any before--namely,
that it was constructed with greater care than usual. It was thatched with grass down to the
ground. Inside the worley there was a quantity of grass laid regularly for a bed, on which
some one had been lying. Round about the front was collected a large quantity of firewood,
as much as would have done for us for a night. Latitude, 22 degrees 5 minutes 30 seconds, bearing
to Central Mount Stuart, 25 degrees. Wind, south-south-west.

Saturday, 6th April, The Hanson. Started at 8 a.m., on a course of 46 degrees 30 minutes, to
the springs in the Hanson; this course led me through about four miles of very thick mulga.
After crossing the central line we arrived on the creek and camped, below the springs, at 1.30
p.m. Bearing to Central Mount Stuart, 251 degrees 20 minutes. Wind variable.

Sunday, 7th April, The Hanson, East-north-east of Centre. Day hot. Wind variable, with a few
clouds.

Monday, 8th April, The Hanson, East-north-east of Centre. Five of the horses missing this morning.
Started at 9.45, course 45 degrees; camped on the Stirling at 3.50 p.m. Through all the day's
journey the country abounded in grass and water. Wind from south.

Tuesday, 9th April, The Stirling, Forster Range. Started at 7.30 a.m., to cross Forster range
on the same course. At 10.50 a.m. camped on north side of it, on a large gum creek with water.
I have named this the Taylor, after John Taylor, Esquire, of the firm of Messrs. Elder, Stirling,
& Co., of Adelaide. This is a most beautiful place, a plain four miles broad between two granite
ranges, completely covered with grass, and a gum creek winding through the centre. I made a
short journey to-day in consequence of having some of the horses lame, and some weak through
the effects of the green grass, and to-morrow's journey will be a long one. Had I gone on to-day,
they would in all probability be without water, and would require to be tied up during the
night. I shall now be able to get through in one day, and keep them in good condition for the
unexplored country, which I expect to commence next Monday.

Wednesday, 10th April, The Taylor. Started at 7.25 a.m. on a course of 11 degrees 30 minutes
for Mount Morphett; at 12.30 ascended the summit. On the north side we had some difficulty
in getting the horses down; however, we managed without accident. Ran a creek down and found
some water; gave the horses a drink; still followed it until it was lost in a grassy plain.
Proceeded on to the next hills, passed through a gap, and made for a creek on the north side,
in which we found water, and camped at 4 p.m.

Thursday, 11th April, North Side Mount Morphett, Crawford Range. Started at 7.45 a.m. on a
course of 10 degrees. The first four miles was over a beautiful grassy plain, with mulga wood,
not very thick; it then became more sandy, and covered with gum, cork-trees, and other scrubs,
which continued within a mile of where we camped, in a small, but beautiful grassed plain;
no water. Latitude 20 degrees 38 minutes 33 seconds. Wind, south-east.

Friday, 12th April, Grassy Plain. Started at 6.15 a.m., same course. At 1 p.m. arrived at the
Bonney; it is now running--green feed abundant. As some of the horses are still very lame,
I will rest them to-morrow and Sunday, and start into the unexplored country on Monday morning.
Wind from south-east; a few clouds from north-east.

Saturday, 13th April, The Bonney. Sent Thring down the creek to see what its course is, and
if the country gets more open; the men mending saddle-bags, cleaning and repairing saddles,
shoeing horses, etc. While I and Woodforde were endeavouring to get a shot at some ducks on
the long water holes, a fish, which he describes as being about two feet long, with dark spots
on either side, came to the surface; he fired at it, but was unsuccessful in killing it. A
little before sundown Thring returned; he gave a very bad account of the creek; it was a dry
deep channel. Wind, variable; cloudy.

Sunday, 14th April, The Bonney. Wind from every quarter, with clouds; a few drops of rain fell
about the middle of the day; after sundown much lightning in the south-west.

Monday, 15th April, The Bonney. Cloudy; wind still variable. Mount Fisher, bearing 120 degrees.
Started at 7.15 a.m., bearing 290 degrees; at 11.40 changed to 264 degrees, to some rising
ground; at 12.45 p.m., after crossing stony hills, we crossed a gum creek on the west side,
with long reaches of water in it running north-west, which I supposed to be the Bonney; but
as there appeared to be more and larger gum-trees farther on, I continued, to see if there
were not another channel. Proceeded three miles over low limestone rises, with small flats
between, on which was growing spinifex, and the gum-trees which I had seen--exactly the same
description of country from which I was forced to return through want of water on my former
journey from Mount Denison to north-west. I therefore returned to the creek, which I find to
be the Bonney, now much smaller, but containing plenty of water--followed it down to north-north-west
for about one mile, and then camped. The water is in long reaches, which I think are permanent.

Tuesday, 16th April, The Bonney. Still cloudy. Started at 8 a.m. on a bearing of 380 degrees.
At 11.15 changed to 40 degrees, with the intention of cutting the McLaren. Camped at 3.40 p.m.
Three miles from our start the creek spreads itself over a large grassy plain, thickly studded
with gum-trees, covered with long grass, and a great number of white ants' nests of all sizes
and shapes, putting one in mind of walking through a large cemetery. In many places it was
very boggy. We followed it for ten miles, but it still continued the same; I could not see
more than one hundred yards before me, the gum-trees, and sometimes a low scrub, being so thick.
Not seeing anything of the McLaren coming into the plain, I changed my course to cut it and
run it down, as I think that it will form a large creek where they join. In three miles we
got out of the plain upon a red sandy soil, with spinifex, and scrubs of all kinds, in some
places very thick, and difficult to get the horses through. When we were in the gum plain the
atmosphere was so close and heavy, and the ground so soft, that the sweat was running in streams
from the horses; and when we halted for a few minutes they were puffing and blowing as though
they had just come in from running a race. I continued the second course for fourteen miles,
but saw nothing of the McLaren; it must have joined the plain before I left it. Thus ends the
Bonney and the McLaren. We passed over several quartz and ironstone ranges of low hills crossing
our course, and camped under a high one, without water. Wind south-east. Cloudy.

Wednesday, 17th April,* (* The Journal of this Expedition, as published by the Royal Geographical
Society, commences here.) Quartz Hill, West Mount Blyth. Started at 7.25 a.m. on a bearing
of 70 degrees. We again passed quartz hills running as yesterday; the spinifex still continuing,
with a little grass, until we came within a mile of the hills in the Murchison range; finding
some water, I camped, and gave the horses the rest of the day to recruit. Last night after
sundown, and during the night, we had a few slight showers of rain, and a great deal of thunder
and lightning, mostly from south-west. About 11 to-day the clouds all cleared away. About a
mile before camping, we observed the ground covered with numerous native tracks; also that
a number of the gum-trees were stripped of their bark all round.

Thursday, 18th April, West Mount Blyth. Started at 7.40 a.m., same bearing, across the Murchison
range, in which we found great difficulty. On the north-east side of Mount Blyth we found a
large gum creek of permanent water, and camped. I have named this Ann Creek. I then rode to
the highest point of the range, taking Thring with me, to see if there is any rising ground
to north-west by which I may cross the gum plain. I could see no rise, nothing but a line of
dark-green wood on the horizon. We had great difficulty in getting to the top, the rocks being
so precipitous. In coming down the eastern side we were gratified by the sight of a beautiful
waterfall, upwards of one hundred feet high, over columns of basaltic rock, its form, two sides
of a triangle, the water coming over the angle. Wind, south-east.

Friday, 19th April, Ann Creek. Started at 7.45 a.m., on a course of 324 degrees, towards Mount
Samuel. After sundown arrived at Goodiar Creek; one of the horses done up; had to leave him
a little distance back; he is unwell. On leaving the Murchison range we crossed a number of
quartz reefs and hills running east and south-west. Wind, south-south-east.

Saturday, 20th April, Goodiar Creek. Three horses missing this morning, in consequence of the
scarcity of feed. The horse left behind last night has been brought in; he looks very bad indeed.
About 11 a.m. the other horses were found, brought in, and saddled, and we proceeded on a north-north-west
course for Bishop Creek, but found the sick horse too ill to proceed further than Tennant Creek,
where we camped, there being plenty of water and feed. Two natives were seen by Masters this
morning when in search of the horses--he could not get them to come near him. Wind, south-west.

Sunday, 21st April, Tennant Creek. Wind from south-west; a few clouds from east.

Monday, 22nd April, Tennant Creek. Started at 7.30 a.m., course 21 degrees, for Bishop Creek,
and at twelve miles made it. I find that two of the horses are so weak that they are unable
to go any further without giving in, I have therefore camped, giving them the remainder of
the day to recruit. Native fires are smoking all around us, but at some distance off. Wind, east.

Tuesday, 23rd April, Bishop Creek. It is late before we can get a start to-day, in consequence
of one of the horses concealing himself in the creek. He is an unkind brute, we have much trouble
with him in that respect; he is constantly hiding himself somewhere or other. Started at 9.30
a.m., on a course of 17 degrees, to cross Short range. Found plenty of water in Phillips Creek;
the grass on its banks, and on the plains where it empties itself, is splendid, two feet and
a half long, fit for the scythe to go into, and an abundant crop of hay could be obtained.
We then crossed the range a little north of where I passed before, and found some slight difficulty.
After descending, we struck a small creek which supplies Kekwick Ponds, and is a tributary
to Hayward Creek; found plenty of water and camped at 3 p.m. Feed abundant. Wind, south-east.

Wednesday, 24th April, Hayward Creek. Started at 7.40 a.m.; course 17 degrees. At 9.30 changed
to 14 degrees 30 minutes west of north, and at 12.30 arrived at Attack Creek; camped at the
same place that I did on my former journey. Tracks of natives about, but we have seen none
of them. I kept about a mile to the west of my former track, and found the country much more
open. The banks of both creeks for two or three miles are splendidly covered with grass, in
some places over the horses' heads. Four of the horses are ill, and looking very bad indeed.
Wind, south-west.

Thursday, 25th April, Attack Creek. Started at 7.50 a.m., on a course of 294 degrees, to the
top of the range, which I have named Whittington Range, after William S. Whittington, Esquire,
of Adelaide. At six miles reached the top. At 9.50 changed to north-west, and at 11.30 struck
a large gum creek running east, with large water holes in it. At about two hundred yards crossed
it again, running to the west, and shortly afterwards crossed it again, running to the east.
I have called it Morphett Creek, after the Honourable John Morphett, Chief Secretary. We then
ascended another portion of the range, and continued along a spur on our course. This range
presents quite a new feature, in having gums growing on the top and all round it; it is composed
of masses of ironstone, granite, sand, and limestone, and in some places white marble. Thinking
that the creek we had passed might break through a low part of the range, which I could see
to the north-west, at ten miles I changed to west, and crossed to the other range, but found
the dip of the country to the south. We could find no water; traced the creek to the south-east
for two miles, found some water and camped. The range is very rough and stony, covered with
spinifex; but the creeks are beautifully grassed. Native smoke to east. This is one of the
sources of Morphett Creek, and flows to the east; it is as large, if not larger, than Attack
Creek, and, in all probability, contains water holes quite as fine to the eastward. Latitude,
18 degrees 50 minutes 40 seconds.

Friday, 26th April, Morphett Creek. At 8 a.m. started on a course of 300 degrees to cross the
north-west part of the range. Camped upon a plain of the same description as John Plain, that
I met with on my former journey to the north-east of Bishop Creek, a large open plain covered
with grass, and with only a few bushes on it. The journey to-day has been very rough and stony.
Not a drop of water have we passed to-day, nor is there the appearance of any on before us.
I shall be compelled to fall back to-morrow to the water of last night. Four of the horses,
I am afraid, will not be able to get there. I must try more to the north, and endeavour to
get quit of the plains, and get amongst the creeks. There is no hope of success on this course.
Latitude, 18 degrees 38 minutes. Wind, east.

Saturday, 27th April, Grassy Plains. Started at 7.10 a.m., course 110 degrees, to the other
side of the plain. At three miles came upon a small creek running towards the north; I followed
it down to the north. At three miles came upon a fine large creek, coming from the south-east,
with plenty of water. Returned to the party, took them down to the large creek on north course,
and at three miles camped. Two of the horses are nearly done up. Wind, south-east. Latitude,
18 degrees 35 minutes 20 seconds.

Sunday, 28th April, Tomkinson Creek. Sent Thring down to examine and see how the creek runs.
I have named it after S. Tomkinson, Esquire, Manager of the Bank of Australasia, at Adelaide.
We have found many new plants and flowers, also some trees, one of which grows to a considerable
size, the largest being about a foot in diameter. The fruit is about the size and colour, and
has the appearance of plums; the bark is of a grey colour; the foliage oval, and dark-green.
Another is more of a bush, and has a very peculiar appearance; the seed vessel is about the
size of an orange, but more pointed. When ripe it opens into four divisions, which look exactly
like honeycomb inside, and in which the seeds are contained; they are about the size of a nut,
the outside being very hard. The natives roast and eat them. The leaves resemble the mulberry,
and are of a downy light-green. We have obtained a few of the seeds of it. The bean-tree does
not seem to grow up here. Mr. Kekwick, in looking for plants this morning, discovered one which
very much resembles wheat in straw (which is very tough), ear, and seed. It grows two feet
high. The seed is small, but very much like wheat both in shape and colour. At about 3 p.m.
Thring returned, having run the creek out into a large grassy plain. The course of this creek
is west-north-west for about nine miles; it then turns to west, and empties itself into the
plain. There is plenty of water about, but where it empties itself it becomes quite dry. The
native companion, the emu, and the sacred ibis are on this creek. The country is splendidly
grassed. We have got to the north side of the Whittington range. I shall have to leave my two
done-up horses here, and will get them when I return. The hills and rocks are of the same description
as the first part of the range. Wind, south. Sun hot, but the nights and mornings are very cold.

Monday, 29th April, Tomkinson Creek. Had a late start this morning in consequence of my having
to take a lunar observation. Started at 10.30 a.m. At 2.10 p.m. reached the top of a high hill;
from this we could see a gum creek. Started at 2.30 to examine it; found water, and camped
at 4. I have named the hill Mount Primrose, after John Primrose, Esquire, of North Adelaide.
This water will last us six or eight weeks. The country passed to-day has been mostly stony
rises of the same description as the other parts of the range. The valleys have a light sandy
soil, nearly all with spinifex and scrub. The view from the top of Mount Primrose is not extensive,
except to the west and south-west, which appears to be thick wood or scrub. Near the top we
met with the Eucalyptus Dumosa. Wind, south-east. Latitude, 18 degrees 25 minutes.

Tuesday, 30th April, Carruthers Creek. The creek in which we are now camped I have named Carruthers
Creek, after John Carruthers, Esquire, of North Adelaide. Started at 8.50 a.m. At 1.50 p.m.
found a creek running from the range, with a splendid hole of permanent water situated under
a cliff, where the creek leaves the range; it is very deep, with a rocky bottom. From the top
of the range the country seems to be very thick, which I am afraid is scrub; no high hills
visible. To the north of this the range appears to cease; I wish it had continued for another
sixty miles. The country passed to-day has been stony rises coming from the range, very rough
and rocky indeed. My horses' shoes are nearly all gone; I am obliged to let some go without--they
have felt the last four rough days very much. Spinifex, scrub, and stunted gums all the day,
with occasionally a few tufts of grass; this is very poor country indeed. Smoke of native fires
still in south-east. The hills of the same formation as those we first came upon in entering
the ranges from Attack Creek. I have named this creek Hunter Creek, after Mr. Hunter, of Messrs.
Hunter, Stevenson, and Co., of Adelaide. Camped. The horses seem very tired. Wind, east. Latitude,
18 degrees 17 minutes.

Wednesday, 1st May, Hunter Creek. Started at 8 a.m., course, 305 degrees. At 8.45 crossed the
Hunter going south-west; it came round again and continued crossing our course thirteen times
in nine miles, after which it was lost in a large grassy and gum plain. At 5.15 camped. The
plain in which the creek loses itself bears south-west; the banks are beautifully grassed,
but about a mile on either side the soil is sandy, with spinifex and scrub, which continued
for nine miles; we then entered upon a scrub and grassy plain. Here I noticed a new and very
beautiful tree--in some instances a foot in diameter--with drooping branches. Its bark was
grey and rough, and it had a small dark-green leaf, shaped like a butterfly's wing. Not finding
a creek, nor the least indication of a watercourse, and the scrub becoming very thick, I changed
to north, to see if I could find any water; but at three miles we lost the gums, the new tree
taking their place, and becoming very thick scrub with plenty of grass, but no signs of a watercourse.
I again changed to east in the hope of cutting one in that direction. At one mile and a half
again came upon small gums; and at three miles, seeing neither creek nor any hope of getting
water, camped. The horses very tired. Wind light from west-north-west. Latitude, 18 degrees
3 minutes 19 seconds.

Thursday, 2nd May, Large Scrubby and Grassy Plain. Started at 10 a.m. in consequence of some
of the horses having strayed a long way to the east during the night; course, 143 degrees 30
minutes, back to Hunter Creek. I have taken a different course to see if there is any creek
that supplies this plain with water. For about nine miles we passed over a splendidly grassed
plain, with gum-trees, the new tree, and a number of all sorts of bushes. One part for about
three miles is subject to inundation, and the Eucalyptus Dumosa grows thickly on it. We then
passed over about two miles of spinifex and grass, and again entered the grassy plain, which
continued to Hunter Creek. During the whole day we have not seen the shadow of a creek or watercourse.
If there had been any sign of a watercourse, or if I could have seen any rising ground near
our course, I would have gone on another day. I sent Wall to the top of the highest tree to
see if there was anything within view; he could see nothing but the same description of plain.
If my horses can travel to-morrow, I will try a course to the north, and run down the creek,
to see if there is one that will lead me through this plain. If I could get to some rising
ground, I think I should be all right; but there is none visible except the end of the range,
which is lost sight of to the north-east. Wind again south-east, with a few clouds. Latitude,
18 degrees 13 minutes 40 seconds.

Friday, 3rd May, Hunter Creek. Started at 8.40 a.m.; course, north. At 11.15 (nine miles),
came upon a creek; bed dry and sandy; searched for water, and, at three quarters of a mile
to east, found a nice hole; watered the horses and proceeded on the same course--starting at
12. At 3.20 p.m. changed to 20 degrees north of east; the first ten miles were over a plain
of gums covered with grass two feet long; we had then six miles of spinifex, and a thick scrub
of dwarf lancewood, as tough as whalebone. After that we entered upon another gum plain, also
splendidly grassed, which continued for four miles, when the gums suddenly ceased, and it became
a large open plain to north, as far as I could see. Seeing no appearance of water, I changed
my course to 30 degrees north of east, to some high gums; and, at one mile, not finding any,
I camped without it. This seems now to be a change of country; there is no telling when or
where I may get the next water on this course, so that I shall be compelled to go towards the
range to-morrow to get some, and have a long day's journey to the new country. The wind has
been from east all day. Latitude, 17 degrees 56 minutes 40 seconds.

Saturday, 4th May, Sturt Plains. Started at 7.15 a.m., course east, to find water. At 3.20
p.m. came upon a little creek and found a small quantity of water, which we gave to the horses.
Started again at 9 p.m., course south-east, following the creek to find more; at a mile and
a half found water which will do for us until Monday morning. I proceeded to the top of the
range to obtain a view of the country round, but was disappointed in its height; from the plain
it appeared higher than it really is. This range I have named Ashburton Range, after Lord Ashburton,
President of the Royal Geographical Society. The point upon which I am at present is about
three miles east of our camp; the view from south to north-west is over a wooded plain; from
north-west to north is a large open plain with scarcely a tree upon it. On leaving our last
night's camp, we passed over three miles of the plain, which is subject to inundation. There
are numerous nasty holes in it, into which the horses were constantly stumbling. It is covered
with splendid grass, and is as fine a country as I have ever crossed. These plains I have named
Sturt Plains, after the venerable father of Australian exploration and my respected commander
of the expedition in 1845. Ashburton range is composed of sandstone and ironstone, granite,
and a little quartz; it is very rough and broken. Native tracks about here. Wind, south-east.
This creek I have named Watson Creek, after Mr. Watson, formerly of Clare.

Sunday, 5th May, Watson Creek, Ashburton Range. Sent Thring to the north along the range to
see if there is permanent water; at eight miles he returned, having found plenty. One large
hole is about a mile from here; in another creek it is apparently permanent, having a rocky
bed. A flight of pelicans over head to-day; they seem to have come from the north-west, which
course I will try to-morrow. Wind, south-east. Latitude, 17 degrees 58 minutes 40 seconds.

Monday, 6th May, Watson Creek, Ashburton Range. Started at 8.20 a.m., course 300 degrees, to
cross Sturt Plain. At eleven miles arrived at the hill which I saw from Ashburton range. It
turned out to be the banks of what was once a fresh-water lake; the water-wash is quite distinct.
It had small iron and limestone gravel, with sand and a great number of shells worn by the
sun and atmosphere to the thinness of paper, plainly indicating that it is many years since
the water had left them. Judging from the water-marks, the lake must have been about twelve
feet deep in the plain. The eucalyptus is growing here. We then proceeded over another open
part of it, for about two miles, when the dwarf eucalypti again commenced, and continued until
we camped at twenty-one miles; the horses quite worn out. This has been the hardest and most
fatiguing day's work we have had since starting from Chambers Creek; for, from the time we
left in the morning until we camped, we have had nothing but a succession of rotten ground,
with large deep holes and cracks in it, caused at a former period by water, into which the
poor horses have been constantly falling the whole day, running the risk of breaking their
legs and our necks, the grass being so long and thick that they could not possibly see them
before they were into them. I had a very severe fall into one of these holes; my horse came
right over and rolled nearly on top of me. I was fortunate enough to escape with little injury.
Some of the shells resemble the cockle shell, but are much longer, many of them being three
or four inches long; the others are of the shape of periwinkles, but six times as large. Both
sorts are scattered over the plain, which is completely matted with grass. The soil is a dark
rich alluvial, and judging from the cracks and holes, some of which are of considerable depth,
they are splendid plains, but not a drop of surface water could we see upon them, nor a single
bird to indicate that there is any. It was my intention at starting to have gone on thirty
miles, but I find it quite impossible for the horses to do more; it would be madness to take
them another day over such a country, when from the highest tree we can see no change. If I
were to go another day and be without water, I should never be able to get one of the horses
back, and in all probability should lose the lives of the whole party. If I could see the least
chance of finding water, or a termination of the plain, I would proceed and risk everything.
I see there is no hope of my reaching the river by this course. I believe this gum plain to
be a continuation of the one I met with beyond the Centre, and that it may continue to the
banks of the Victoria. The features of the country are nearly the same. The absence of all
birds has a bad appearance. Day very hot. Wind, south-east. Latitude, 17 degrees 49 minutes.

Tuesday, 7th May, Sturt Plains. Before sunrise this morning I sent Wall up a tree to see if
any hills or rising grounds would be visible by refraction. To the west, with a powerful telescope
he can just see the top of rising ground. As the grass is now quite dry, the horses feel the
want of water very much; many of them are looking wretched, and I hardly think will be able
to reach it. However reluctant, I must go back for the safety of the party. At 3 p.m. arrived
at the creek which Thring found about one mile to the north of my former camp, with the loss
of only one horse; we had to leave him a short distance behind, he would not move a step further,
although during a great part of the journey he had been carrying little or nothing. This water
will last two months at least; feed good. It is inside the first ironstone rise in Ashburton
range, in a gum creek which empties itself into the plains. This creek I have named Hawker
Creek, after James Hawker, Esquire, of her Majesty's Customs at Port Adelaide.

Wednesday, 8th May, Hawker Creek, Ashburton Range. I have sent Masters back to bring up the
horse we left behind. Sturt Plains have been at one time the bed of a large fresh-water lake;
our journey of the 6th instant was over the middle of it, and we were not at the end of it
when I was forced to return; the same rotten ground and shells continued, although we had got
amongst the eucalypti. I shall give the horses a rest to-day, and to-morrow will take the best
of them (those that I had out on my former journey), and endeavour to cross the plain to the
rising ground seen yesterday morning; I shall take Thring and Woodforde, with seven horses
and one week's provisions. I may be fortunate enough to find some water, but from the appearance
of the country I have little hope. I shall, however, leave nothing untried to accomplish the
object of the expedition. In the morning the horse we left behind could not be found; sent
Masters and Sullivan in search of him; in the afternoon they returned with him looking miserable.
He had wandered away beyond the other camp.

Thursday, 9th May, Hawker Creek, Ashburton Range. Started at 7 a.m., with Thring and Woodforde,
and seven horses, following our tracks through the rotten ground to the first eucalypti, for
about twelve miles, as it made it lighter for the horses, the tracks being beaten to that place.
Changed our course to 282 degrees, still journeying over Sturt Plains; at twenty-seven miles
arrived at the end of the portion of them that had been subject to inundation, but there are
still too many holes to be pleasant. I certainly never did see a more splendid country for
grass; in many places for miles it is above the horses' knees. We entered upon red sandy soil,
with spinifex and grass, from which we changed our bearing. The country became thickly studded
with eucalypti, in one or two places rather open, but generally thick. After the twenty-seven
miles we again met with the new small-leafed tree, the broad-leafed mallee, the eucalypti,
and many other scrubs. At sundown we camped; distance, thirty-three miles, but not a drop of
water have we seen the whole day, or the least indication of its proximity. I hope to-morrow
we may be more fortunate, and find some. Wind, south.

Friday, 10th May, Sturt Plains. This morning there are a few birds about. Started at 8.15 a.m.,
same course; at 10.30 arrived on first top of rising ground seen from the camp of 7th instant,
which turns out to be red sand hills covered with thick scrub. Changed our course to north-west,
and at 11.15 arrived at the highest point; the view is very discouraging--nothing to be seen
all round but sand hills of the same description, their course north-north-east, and south
to west. No high hills or range to be seen through the telescope. We can see a long distance,
apparently all sand hills with scrub and stunted gums on them. The first ridge is about two
hundred feet above Sturt Plains, but further to the west they are much lower, and become seemingly
red sandy undulating table land; but further to the west they are much lower. There is no hope
of reaching the Victoria on this course. I would have gone on further to-day had I seen the
least chance of obtaining water to-night; but during the greater part of yesterday and to-day
we have met with no birds that frequent country where water is. Both yesterday and to-day have
been excessively hot, and the country very heavy. From this point I can see twenty-five miles
without anything like a change. To go on now with such a prospect, and such heavy country before
me, would only be sacrificing our horses and our own lives without a hope of success--the horses
having already come forty-five miles without a drop of water, and over as heavy a country as
was ever travelled on. I have therefore, with reluctance, made up my mind to return to the
camp and try it again further north, where I may have a chance of rounding the sand hills;
the dip of them from here seems to be south-south-west. Turned back, and at eighteen miles
camped on Sturt Plains, where there is green grass for the horses. Wind, south.

Saturday, 11th May, Sturt Plains. At dawn of day started for the camp; arrived at 2 p.m. It
was fortunate I did not go on further, for some of the horses were scarcely able to reach it;
a few more hours and I should have lost half of them. The day has been so hot that it has nearly
knocked them all up. Found the rest of the party all right at the camp. We had a job to keep
the horses from injuring themselves by drinking too much water. I gave them a little three
separate times, tied them up for twenty minutes, and then gave them a good drink, and drove
them off to feed. They took a few mouthfuls of grass, and were back again almost immediately,
and continued to do so nearly all the afternoon. They drank an immense quantity. Wind, south.

Sunday, 12th May, Hawker Creek, Ashburton Range. My old horses that were out with me before
look very well this morning, but the others, whose first trip of privation this has been, are
looking very bad indeed. They could not have gone another night without water; it has pulled
them down terribly. Yesterday, while Masters was looking for the horses, he saw what appeared
to him to be a piece of wood stuck upon a tree, about two feet and a half long, sharp at both
ends, broad at the bottom, and shaped like a canoe. Having pulled it down, he found it to be
hollow. On the top of it were placed a number of pieces of bark, and the whole bound firmly
round with grass cord. He undid it, and found the skull and bones of a child within. Mr. Kekwick
brought it to me this morning for my inspection. It certainly is the finest piece of workmanship
I have ever seen executed by natives. It is about twelve inches deep and ten wide, tapering
off at the ends. Small lines are cut along both sides of it. It has been cut out of a solid
piece of wood, with some sharp instrument. It is exactly the model of a canoe. I told him to
do it up again, and replace it as it was found. If it is here when I return, I will endeavour
to take it to Adelaide with me. Wind, variable. A few clouds about.

Monday, 13th May, Hawker Creek, Ashburton Range. Started at 8 a.m., course 360 degrees. At
five miles crossed the large gum-tree creek, with water, that Thring found; proceeded along
the side of Sturt Plains. At ten miles ascended the north point of Ashburton range; descended,
and the country became red sand with spinifex, gum-tree, the new tree, and other shrubs very
thick; at fifteen miles, gained the top of another stony rise; followed three creeks down in
search of water; found a little, but not sufficient for us; followed it still further down,
leading us to the south for about six miles, but could find no more. I thought it best to return
for water to the large creek, which I have named Ferguson Creek, after Peter Ferguson, Esquire,
of Gawler Town. From the top of the range the view is limited. To the north and north-east
are stony rises, at about nine miles distant; from north to west are Sturt Plains, in some
places wooded; to the north they are open for a very long distance; the country in the hills
is bad, but in the plains is beautiful. I am afraid, from the view I have of the country to
the north, that I shall again meet with the same description of sand hills that I came upon
on my last western course. Wind east-south-east, blowing strong. Latitude, 17 degrees 53 minutes
20 seconds.

Tuesday, 14th May, Ferguson Creek. Started at 8.30 a.m., on a north course, to the place I
turned back from yesterday; arrived at noon; changed course to 345 degrees. Started again at
12.20. At 1 p.m. crossed a gum creek that has the appearance of water. At 1.40 changed course
to 260 degrees, and came upon two large water holes, apparently very deep, situated in the
rocks--they are seemingly permanent. Camped. I named this creek Lawson Creek, after Dr. Lawson,
J.P., of Port Lincoln. A number of natives have been camped about them. We found another canoe,
of the same description as the one in which the bones of the child were found--it is broken
and burned, and seems to have been used as a vessel for holding water. Wind south-east, blowing
strong. Mornings and evenings very cold. Latitude, 17 degrees 43 minutes 30 seconds.

Wednesday, 15th May, Lawson Creek. Started at 8.10 a.m.; went a mile west to clear the stones;
changed course to 340 degrees. At 2.45 p.m. changed again to 45 degrees. Camped at 4.15. The
first twelve miles is poor country, being on the top of stony rises, with eucalypti, grass,
and scrubs. After descending from the rises, we crossed a wooded plain, subject to inundation;
no water. The trees are very thick indeed--they are the eucalyptus, the Eucalyptus Dumosa,
the small-leaved tree, another small-leaved tree much resembling the hawthorn, spreading out
into many branches from the root; it rises to upwards of twenty feet in height. We have also
seen three other new shrubs, but there were no seeds on them. After crossing the plain we got
upon red sandy rises, very thick with scrub and trees of the same description. We continued
on this course until 2.45 p.m.; then, as there is an open plain in sight, with rising ground
upon it to north-east, and as this scrubby ridge seems to continue, without the least appearance
of water, I have changed to north-east. Crossed the plain, which is alluvial soil, covered
with grass, but very dry. At 4.15 camped on north-east side, without water. I would have gone
on to the rise, but I feel so ill that I am unable to sit any longer in the saddle. I have
been suffering for the last three days from a severe pain in the chest. Wind, east. Latitude,
17 degrees 16 minutes 20 seconds.

Thursday, 16th May, Sturt Plains. Sent Thring to see if there is a creek or a sign of water
under the rise. At 8.20 a.m. he returned, having found no water. It is a low sandy rise, covered
with a dense scrub. Started at 8.20 a.m.; course, east. At three miles I was forced to return;
the scrub is so dense that it is impossible to get through. Came back two miles; changed to
20 degrees west of south to get out of it. At two miles gained the plain, then changed to the
east of south at 10.45. At 2 p.m. there is no hope of a creek or water. Changed to south-west.
At two miles and a half struck our tracks and proceeded to Lawson Creek. We found the open
parts of the plain black alluvial soil so rotten and cracked, that the horses were sinking
over their knees; this continued for six miles. It is covered with long grass and polygonum;
also a few eucalypti scattered over it. The scrub we were compelled to return from was the
thickest I have ever had to contend with. The horses would not face it. They turned about in
every direction, and we were in danger of losing them. In two or three yards they were quite
out of sight. In the short distance we penetrated it has torn our hands, faces, clothes, and,
what is of more consequence, our saddle-bags, all to pieces. It consists of scrub of every
kind, which is as thick as a hedge. Had we gone further into it we should have lost everything
off the horses. No signs of water. From south to west, north and north-east nothing visible
but Sturt Plains, with a few sand rises having scrub on them, which terminate the spurs of
the stony rises. They are a complete barrier between me and the Victoria. I should think that
water could be easily obtained at a moderate depth in many places on the plains. If I had plenty
of provisions I would try to make it by that way. The only course that I can now try is to
the north-east or east, to round the dense scrub and plains. At sundown arrived at Lawson Creek.
The horses, owing to the dryness of the grass, drank a great quantity of water; they are falling
off very much. Wind, south-east.

Friday, 17th May, Sturt Plains. I must remain here to-day to mend saddle-bags, etc. I have
sent Thring to north-east to see if the stony rises continue in that direction. He has returned
and gives a very poor account of the country. He crossed them in about six miles, and again
came upon the plain that we were on yesterday, extending from north-east to south. Nothing
but plains. To the north is the dense scrub, thus forming a complete stop to further progress.
From here I fear it is a hopeless case either to reach Victoria or the Gulf. The plains and
forest are as great a barrier as if there had been an inland sea or a wall built round. I shall
rest the horses till Monday, and will then try a course to the north-west, and another to north-east.
I have not the least hope of succeeding without wells, and I have not sufficient provisions
to enable me to remain and dig them. It is a great disappointment to be so near, and yet through
want of water to be unable to attain the desired end. Wind, south-east.

Saturday, 18th May, Lawson Creek. Resting horses, etc. Wind, south-east.

Sunday, 19th May, Lawson Creek. Wind, south-east.

Monday, 20th May, Lawson Creek. Started at 7.25 a.m., course 45 degrees, with Thring, Woodforde,
and seven horses. The first four miles was over the stony rises; the next three, sandy table-land,
with spinifex, eucalyptus, and scrub. Crossed part of Sturt Plains, open and covered with grass.
Five miles of it were very heavy travelling-ground, very rotten, and full of holes and cracks.
At about thirty miles camped on the plains. We have seen no birds, nor any living thing, except
kites and numerous grasshoppers, which are in myriads on the plains. From this place to the
east, and as far as south-south-west, there is no rising ground within range of vision--nothing
but an immense open grassy plain. The absence of birds proclaims it to be destitute of water.
We have not seen a drop, not a creek, nor a watercourse during the whole day's journey. To-morrow
I shall again try to get through the scrub. On leaving the camp this morning, I instructed
Kekwick to move the party about three miles down the creek to another water hole, the feed
not being good. Wind, east.

Tuesday, 21st May, Sturt Plains, East. Started at 7.10 a.m. Passed through a very thick scrub
seven miles in extent. We again entered on another portion of the open plains at ten miles
from our last night's camp. Nothing to be seen on the horizon all round but plains. Changed
to 300 degrees, to where I saw some pigeons fly. At two miles came across their feeding-ground;
skirted the scrub until we cut our tracks. No appearance of water. This is again a continuation
of the open portion of Sturt Plains; they appear to be of immense extent, with occasional strips
of dense forest and scrub. We had seven miles of it this morning as thick as ever I went through;
it has scratched and torn us all to pieces. At my furthest on the open plain. I saw that it
was hopeless to proceed, for from the west to north, and round to south-south-west, there is
nothing to be seen but immense open plains covered with grass, subject to inundation, having
an occasional low bush upon them. I think with the aid of the telescope I must have seen at
least sixty miles; there is not the least appearance of rising ground, watercourse, or smoke
of natives in any direction. The sun is extremely hot on the plain. Having no hope of finding
water this morning, I left Woodforde with the pack and spare horses where we camped last night,
as the heat and rough journey of yesterday have tired them a great deal; so much so, that I
fear some of them will not be able to get back to water. Returned to where I had left him,
and followed our tracks back to the open plain. After sundown camped among some scrub. Wind,
south-east.

Wednesday, 22nd May, Sturt Plains. After sunset we saw a number of turkeys flying towards the
stony rises where our main camp is; they appear to come from the north-west. Upwards of fifty
passed over in twos and threes; and this morning we observed them going back again. Two of
the horses which had been short hobbled walked off during the night, following our tracks.
Saddled and followed, overtaking them in three miles and a half, standing under the shade of
a tree. Unhobbled and drove them on before us. At 12 o'clock arrived at Lawson Creek. Had great
difficulty in preventing the horses from drinking too much, and, as there are other holes down
the creek, I gave them a little at a time at each. Found that Kekwick had moved with the party.
Followed them, and at three miles and a half west-south-west arrived at their camp, and allowed
the horses to drink as much as they chose. Poor brutes! they have had very hard work, eighty
miles over the heaviest country, under a burning sun, without a drop of water. Three of them
were those I had on my former journeys; I could depend upon them; the rest were the best I
could pick from the other lot. They have all stood the journey very well, but could not have
done another day without water. Natives seem to have been about this water lately, but we have
not seen one since leaving our spitting friend on the Hugh. Wind, east.

Thursday, 23rd May, Lawson Creek. Started 7.45 a.m., course 315 degrees, with Thring, Woodforde,
and seven fresh horses. At fourteen miles came across a splendid reach of water, about one
hundred and fifty yards wide, but how long I do not know, as we could not see the end of it.
It is a splendid sheet of water, and is certainly the gem of Sturt Plains. I have decided at
once on returning, and bringing the party up to it, as it must be carefully examined, for it
may be the source of the Camfield, or some river that may lead me through. On approaching it
I saw a large flock of pelicans, which leads me to think that there may be a lake in its vicinity.
There are mussels and periwinkles in it, and, judging from the shells on the banks, the natives
must consume a large quantity. The gum-trees round it are not very large. The first ten miles
of that part of the plain travelled over to-day is full of large deep holes and cracks, black
alluvial soil covered with grass, with young gum-trees thicker as we approached the water.
This I have named Newcastle Water, after his Grace the Duke of Newcastle, Secretary for the
Colonies. Duck, native companion, white crane, and sacred ibis abound here. Returned to bring
the party up to-morrow. Wind, south-east.

Friday, 24th May, Lawson Creek. Started at 8 a.m. for Newcastle Water; arrived at noon. Camped.
Sent Kekwick to north-east and Thring to west to see the length of it; I have had the depth
tried. It is about six feet deep ten yards from the bank, and in the middle seventeen feet.
I should say it was permanent. Thring found it still the same at three miles west. Kekwick
returned after following it for four miles. At two miles there is a break in it. At four miles
it is more of a creek coming from north-east. Gum-trees much larger. Woodforde succeeded in
catching four fish about ten inches long, something resembling the whiting. I had one cooked
for tea; the skin was as tough as a piece of leather, but the inside was really good, as fine
a fish as I have ever eaten. To-morrow I shall follow the water to the west; its bed is limestone.
Wind, south-east, with a few clouds. Latitude, 17 degrees 36 minutes 40 seconds.

Saturday, 25th May, Newcastle Water, Sturt Plains. Started at 7.50 a.m. and followed the water
nine miles round. It still continued, but became a chain of ponds. As I could see some rising
ground north-north-east about four miles distant, I camped the party and took Thring with me
to see what the country was before us. At four miles we found that the first part of the rise
was stony, but on the top it was sandy table-land, covered with thick scrub. The view is obstructed
to the east-north-east to north by it; but to the north-west and west there is an appearance
of rising ground, thickly wooded, about twenty miles off. Wind, west. Latitude, 17 degrees
30 minutes 30 seconds.

Sunday, 26th May, Newcastle Water, Sturt Plains. This morning we were visited by seven natives,
tall, powerfully-made fellows. At first they seemed inclined for mischief, making all manner
of gestures and shaking their boomerangs, waddies, etc. We made friendly signs to them, inviting
them to come nearer; they gradually approached, and Kekwick and Lawrence got quite close to
them; in a short time they appeared to be quite friendly. I felt alarmed for the safety of
J. Woodforde (who had gone down the water in search of ducks, and in the direction from which
they had come), and endeavoured to make them friends by giving them pieces of handkerchiefs,
etc. During the time we were talking with them I heard the distant report of his gun; at the
same time Thring and Masters returned from collecting the horses that were missing. I told
them to remain until the natives were gone, as I wished to keep them as long as possible to
give Woodforde a chance of coming up before they left us; shortly afterwards they went off
apparently quite friendly. Sent Thring and Wall to round up the horses which were close at
hand, and while they were doing so the natives again returned, running quite close up to the
camp and setting fire to the grass. It was now evident they meant mischief. I think they must
have seen or heard Woodforde, and have lit the grass in order to engage our attention from
him. I felt very much inclined to fire upon them, but desisted, as I feared they would revenge
themselves on him in their retreat. They did very little injury by their fire, which we succeeded
in putting out. By signs I ordered them to be off, and after much bother they left us, setting
fire to the grass as they went along. I now ordered Thring and Wall to go with all speed to
protect Woodforde. In about twenty minutes he came into the camp. After leaving us they had
attacked him, throwing several boomerangs and waddies at him; he had only one barrel of his
gun loaded with shot; they all spread out and surrounded him, gradually approaching from all
sides. One fellow got within five yards of him, and was in the act of aiming his boomerang
at him. Seeing it was useless to withhold any longer, while the black was in the act of throwing
he gave him the contents of his gun in his face, and made for the camp. In a short time Thring
and Wall returned at full speed; they had passed where he was, and hearing the report of his
gun, made for the place, overtook the blacks, gave chase and made them drop the powder-flask
and ducks (which Woodforde had laid down before firing when they attacked him); knowing them
to be his, they gave up the chase to look for him, but seeing nothing of him, and two of the
natives supporting one apparently wounded, they returned to the camp, where they saw him all
safe, relating his adventure, his shot-belt still missing. I sent Thring and him to look for
it, and to bring up the missing horses which they had seen. Wind variable. Cloudy.

Monday, 27th May, Newcastle Water, Sturt Plains. Started at 8.10 a.m., course 335 degrees.
At 10.20 changed to north; at 1.20 p.m. changed to 90 degrees; and at one mile found water;
gave the horses some, and proceeded north-north-east; at 3.40 changed to 90 degrees to some
gums: at one mile and a half camped. The gums turn out to be thick wood. I went north-north-west
this morning, with the expectation of meeting with water, or rather a chain of ponds; at four
miles, I could see nothing of them; and, as we were getting into a very thick scrub of lancewood,
I changed to north; and at ten miles on that course, still seeing nothing of them, I changed
to east; at one mile came upon them, found water, and followed them; their course now, 20 degrees;
at one mile found another pond; in a short time, lost the bed of them in a thick wooded plain.
Found a native path running nearly in my course; followed it, thinking it would lead me to
some other water, but in a few miles it became invisible. I continued on the same course for
nine miles, and found myself on Sturt Plains, with belts of thick wood and scrub; to the north,
nothing visible but open plains; to north-east, apparently thick wood or scrub; to north-west
and west, apparently scrubby sand hills. The ponds seem to drain this portion of the plains.
Changed to east, to what seemed to be large gum-trees, thinking there might be a creek; arriving
there, I found them to be stunted gums on the edge of the plain. There is no hope of succeeding
in this quarter. Camped without water. Wind, east. Latitude, 17 degrees 12 minutes 30 seconds.

Tuesday, 28th May, Sturt Plains, North. Fourteen of the horses missing this morning before
sunrise. From the highest tree nothing is to be seen from east to north and north-west but
immense open grassy plains, without a tree on them; no hope of water. I must go back to the
ponds and try again to the westward. Did not find the horses until 9.30 a.m., and started at
10. I observed very large flocks of pigeons coming in clouds from the plains in every direction
towards the ponds. Some time afterwards we saw them coming back and flying away into the plains
as far as the eye can reach, apparently to feed. Arrived at the water at 1.30 p.m. Wind, east-north-east.

Wednesday, 29th May, Chain of Ponds. Started at 7.20 a.m. with Thring, Woodforde, and Wall,
and nine horses, to follow a native track, which is leading to the westward. At 9.20 made the
track; its course, west-north-west. At twenty-eight miles camped without water. The track led
us into very thick wood and scrub, and at five miles became invisible. I still continued on
the same bearing through the scrub. We have again met with the mulga--a little different from
what we have seen before, growing very straight, from thirty to forty feet high, the bark stringy,
the leaf much larger and thicker. Amongst it is the hedge-tree. We had seven miles of it very
dense, when we again met with an open plain. At three miles entered another dense wood and
scrub, like that passed through in the morning. To-day's journey has been over plains of grass,
through forest and scrub, without water. In the last five miles we passed through a little
spinifex, and the soil is becoming sandy. Wind, south.

Thursday, 30th May, Sturt Plains. As I can see no hope of water, I will leave Woodforde and
Wall with the horses, take Thring with me, and proceed ten miles, to see if there will be a
change in that distance. Went into a terrible thick wood and scrub for eleven miles and a half,
without the least sign of a change--the scrub, in fact, becoming more dense; it is scarcely
penetrable. I sent Thring up one of the tallest trees. Nothing to be seen but a fearfully dense
wood and scrub all round. Again I am forced to retreat through want of water. The last five
miles of the eleven the soil is becoming very sandy, with spinifex and a little grass. It is
impossible to say in which way the country dips, for, in forty-five miles travelled over, we
have not seen the least sign of a watershed, it is so level. Returned to where I left the others,
followed our tracks back, and at eleven miles camped. Horses nearly done up with heavy travelling
and the heat of the sun, which is excessive. It is very vexing and dispiriting to be forced
back with only a little more than one hundred miles between Mr. Gregory's last camp on the
Camfield and me. If I could have found water near the end of this journey, I think I could
have forced the rest. It is very galling to be turned back after trying so many times. Wind, east.

Friday, 31st May, Sturt Plains. Not having sufficient tethers for all the horses, we had to
short hobble two, and tie their heads to their hobbles; and, in the morning, they were gone.
I suppose they must have broken their hobbles or fastenings; they will most likely make on
to our outward tracks. I have sent Thring and Woodforde to follow them up, while Wall and I,
with the other horses, proceed on our way to the camp. In two hours they made the tracks before
us, and I then pushed on as hard as I could get the horses to go; being very anxious about
the safety of the party--for, on the first day that I left them, at about seven miles, we passed
fourteen or fifteen natives going in the direction of their camp; I also observed, this morning,
that they had been running our tracks both backwards and forwards. At three o'clock we arrived,
and found all safe; they have not been visited by them, although I observed the prints of their
feet in our tracks, a short distance from the camp. It was as much as some of our horses could
do to reach the camp. The day has been excessively hot; wind from north-north-east, with clouds.
Latitude, 17 degrees 7 minutes.

Saturday, 1st June, Chain of Ponds. I must rest the horses to-day and to-morrow, for they look
very miserable; our longitude is 133 degrees 40 minutes 45 seconds. Before leaving the Ponds
I shall try once more to the westward--starting from a point three miles west of my first camp
on them. To try from this, for the Gulf of Carpentaria, I believe to be hopeless, for the plain
seems to be without end and without water. If I could see the least sign of a hill, or hope
of finding water, I would try it; but there is none--if there is a passage it must be to the
south of this. Wind variable, with clouds.

Sunday, 2nd June, Chain of Ponds. The day has again been very hot. Wind variable.

Monday, 3rd June, Chain of Ponds. Started back to the commencement of the Chain of Ponds, and
camped. During the day the sky has been overcast with heavy clouds. Wind, south-east.

Tuesday, 4th June, Chain of Ponds. Last night one of the horses was drowned in going down to
drink at the water hole. He went into a boggy place, got his hind foot fastened in his hobbles,
from which he could not extricate himself, and was drowned before we could save him. This is
another great loss, for he was a good pack-horse, and was one that I intended taking on my
next trip to the westward. At about 8 p.m. it began to rain, and continued the whole night,
coming from the east and east-south-east. It still continues without any sign of a break. The
ground has become so soft that when walking we sink up to the ankle, and the horses can scarcely
move in it. At sundown there is no appearance of a change. It has rained without intermission
the whole of last night and to-day. I do not know what effect this will have on my further
progress, for now it is impossible to travel. The horses in feeding are already sinking above
their knees. Wind and rain from east and east-south-east.

Wednesday, 5th June, Chain of Ponds. There is a little sign of a break in the clouds this morning.
The rain has continued the whole night. Ground very soft; it has become about the thickness
of cream. The horses can scarcely get about to feed. Sundown: It has been showery all day;
sky overcast; clouds and rain from same direction, south-east. In the afternoon some natives
made their appearance at about six hundred yards' distance. As the rain had damped the cartridges
I caused the rifles to be fired off in that direction; and, as the bullets struck the trees
close to them they thought it best to retreat as fast as possible, yelling as they went.

Thursday, 6th June, Chain of Ponds. During the night it has been stormy, with showers of rain,
and is still the same this morning. Sundown: Still stormy, with a few drops of rain. Wind, east.

Friday, 7th June, Chain of Ponds. During the night the rain ceased, and this morning is quite
bright. Ground so soft that it is impossible to travel. Latitude, 17 degrees 35 minutes 25
seconds. Sent Thring some miles to the west, to see in what state the country is, if fit for
us to proceed, and if he can see any water that I could move the party to, for I do not like
this place. If more rain falls it will lock us in all together--neither do I like leaving the
party with so many natives about. At one o'clock he returned. The ground was so heavy that
he had to turn at five miles. He could see no water, but a number of native tracks going to
and coming from the west. I shall be obliged to leave the party here, and on Monday try another
trip to the west. If I find water I shall return and take them to it. The day has been clear,
but at sundown it is again cloudy. Clouds from north-west. Wind from east.

Saturday, 8th June, Chain of Ponds. This morning it has again cleared off, and there is every
appearance of fine weather. If it hold this way I shall be able to travel on Monday. Sundown:
A few clouds. Wind, south-east.

Sunday, 9th June, Chain of Ponds. The day has again been fine. Wind, still south-east.

Monday, 10th June, Chain of Ponds. Started at 7.55 a.m., course 275 degrees, with Thring, Woodforde,
and Wall, nine horses, and fourteen days' provisions. The first five miles were over a grassy
plain, with stunted gum and other trees. It was very soft, the horses sinking up to their knees.
We met with a little rain water at three miles, where the soil became sandy; continued to be
more so as we advanced, with lancewood and other scrubs growing upon it. At fourteen miles
gained the top of a sand rise, which seems to be the termination of the sand hills that I turned
back from on my west course south of this. From here the country seems to be a dense forest
and scrub; no rising ground visible. Camped at 5 p.m., distance thirty-two miles. The whole
journey from the sand hills has been through a dense forest of scrubs of all kinds--hedge-tree,
gum, mulga, lancewood, etc. We have had great difficulty in forcing the horses through it so
far; they are very tired. It is the thickest scrub I have yet been in. Ground very soft; heavy
travelling, with the exception of the last five miles, where little rain seems to have fallen.
I am afraid this will be another hopeless journey. I fully expected to have got water to-night
from the recent rains, but there is not a drop. The country is such that the surface cannot
retain it, were it to fall in much larger quantities. I shall try a little further on to-morrow.
I had a hole dug, to see if any rain had fallen, and found that it had penetrated two feet
below the surface, below which it is quite dry. Wind, east.

Tuesday, 11th June, Dense Forest and Scrub. Leaving Woodforde, Wall, and the pack-horses, I
took Thring with me, and proceeded on the same course to see if I could get through the horrid
forest and scrub, or meet with a change of country, or find some water. At two miles we came
upon some grass again, which continued, and at another mile the forest became much more open
and splendidly grassed, which again revived my sinking hopes; but alas, it only lasted about
two miles, when we again entered the forest thicker than ever. At eleven miles it became so
dense that it was nearly impenetrable. The horses would not face it; when forced, they made
a rush through, tearing everything we had on, and wounding us severely by running against the
dead timber (which was as sharp as a lancet) and through the branches. I saw that it was hopeless
to force through any further. Not a drop of water have we seen, although the ground is quite
moist--the horses sinking above the fetlock. The soil is red and sandy; the mulga from thirty
to forty feet high and very straight; the bark has a stringy appearance. There is a great quantity
of it lying dead on the ground, which causes travelling to become very difficult. I therefore
returned to where I left Woodforde and Wall, and came back ten miles on yesterday's journey,
and camped. This morning, about 5.30, we observed a comet bearing 110 degrees; length of tail,
10 degrees, and 10 degrees above the horizon. Wind, south-east.

Wednesday, 12th June, Western Dense Forest and Scrub. Proceeded to camp and found all well.
This is the third long journey by which I have tried to make the Victoria in this latitude,
but have been driven back every time by the same description of country and the want of water.
There is not the least appearance of rising ground, or a change in the country--nothing but
the same dismal, dreary forest throughout; it may in all probability continue to Mr. Gregory's
last camp on the Camfield. My farthest point has been within a hundred miles of it. I would
have proceeded further, but my horses are unable to do it; they look as if they had done a
month's excessive work, from their feet being so dry, the forest so thick, and the want of
water. Thus end my hopes of reaching the Victoria in this latitude, which is a very great disappointment.
I should have dug wells if my party had been larger, and I had had the means of conveying water
to those engaged in sinking the wells. I think I could accomplish it in that way; but by doing
so, I should have to divide the party into three, (one sinking, one carrying water, and one
at the camp), which would be too small a number where the natives appear to be so hostile.
I have not the least doubt that water could be obtained at a moderate depth, near the end of
my journeys, amongst the long thick timber, which seems to be the lowest part of the country.
I had no idea of meeting with such an impediment as the plains and heavy scrub have proved
to be. For a telegraphic communication I should think that three or four wells would overcome
this difficulty and the want of water, and the forest could be penetrated by cutting a line
through and burning it. In all probability there is water to be found nearer than this in the
Camfield, Mr. Gregory's last camp, somewhere about its sources, which might be thirty miles
nearer. Wind, south-east. Country drying up very fast.

Thursday, 13th June, Chain of Ponds. To-day I shall move the camp to the easternmost part of
Newcastle Water, and now that rain has come from the east, I shall try if I can cross Sturt
Plains, and endeavour to reach the Gulf of Carpentaria. My provisions are now getting very
short. We are reduced to four pounds of flour and one pound of dried meat per man per week,
which is beginning to show the effects of starvation upon some of them; but I can leave nothing
untried where there is the least shadow of a chance of gaining the desired object. Started
at 9.40 a.m. At three miles and a half passed our first camp of Newcastle Water. At eight miles
and a half camped at the last water to the eastward. The ground is firmer than I expected,
travelling good. The large part of the water is reduced two inches since 24th ultimo. The late
rains seem to have no effect on it. Wind, south-east.

Friday, 14th June, East End of Newcastle Water. Started with Thring, Woodforde, and Wall, with
one month's provisions and ten horses, at 7.45 a.m.; course, 60 degrees. At two miles crossed
our former tracks, on the top of the sandy table land, and after leaving it we again got on
the open plains, black alluvial soil, covered with grass, with deep holes and cracks into which
the horses were continually falling on their noses, and running the risk of breaking our necks.
These plains have swallowed up every drop of rain that has fallen. The extent of the plain
is seven miles. We then entered a thick wooded country, of the same description as the western
forest, being equally thick, if not thicker, and as difficult to penetrate. This continued
for thirteen miles, when we met with another small plain about half a mile wide, but opening
out wider to north-west and south. Not a drop of water have we seen since leaving Newcastle
Water, a distance of about thirty miles, except a little rain water about three miles east
of it. The plains are quite dry, scarcely showing that rain has fallen. Camped. The horses
have had a hard day's work and are very tired. I wish I could have found water for them to-night.
Latitude, 17 degrees 26 minutes 20 seconds. Wind, south-east.

Saturday 15th June, North-east Small Plains, Sturt Plains. Started at 7.30 a.m.; course, 60
degrees, through another ten miles of very thick forest, the thickest we have yet seen. At
eleven miles came again upon the large open grassy plain, at the point where I turned on the
21st ultimo. I expected to have found some rain water here, this being the only place in all
the plain I have seen that is likely to retain it. Sent Thring and Woodforde in different directions,
while I proceeded in another, to see if we could find any, but not a drop could we see. It
has been all swallowed up by the ground, which is again dry and dusty. It must take an immense
quantity to saturate it, and leave any on the surface; and if that were to be the case, the
country would become so soft it would be quite impassable. I am again forced to turn; it is
quite hopeless to attempt it any farther. It would be sacrificing our horses, and, perhaps,
our own lives, without the least prospect of attaining our end. If I could see rising ground,
however small, or a change in the country to justify my risking everything, I would do so in
a moment. I only wish there was. I have tried my horses to their utmost. Even my old horses
that are inured to hardship are unable to be longer than three days without water, owing to
the heat of the sun, the dryness of the feed, and the softness of the country. We saw a few
cockatoos and pigeons. There might be water within a short distance, but none can we see or
find; for on my course 20 degrees west of north I passed within two miles of Newcastle Water,
where the main camp is now, but could not see it. It would require a long time to examine this
country for water. There are so many clumps of trees, and strips of scrub on the plain, where
water might be, that it would take upwards of twelve months to examine them all. At sundown
camped fifteen miles from the main camp. Horses look very bad. It has been very heavy travelling,
over rotten ground, and tearing through thick wood and scrub, which has skinned our legs from
the knees to the ankles and caused no little pain. Wind, variable.

Sunday, 16th June, Sturt Plains East. Proceeded to the camp, where I found all well. No natives
had been near them. This is very disheartening work. I shall proceed to the south, and try
once more to round that horrid thick western forest; it is now my only hope; if that fail I
shall have to return. I am doubtful of the water in Ashburton range, if no rain has fallen
there; those hills are the last of the rising ground within range of vision, which ends in
about latitude 17 degrees 14 minutes. From south-south-east round the compass to south-south-west
nothing but dense forest and Sturt Plains. Wind, south-east.

Monday, 17th June, Newcastle Water East. Returned to the Lawson and camped. Little rain seemed
to have fallen there. I kept a little to west of my former tracks to see the nature of the
large open plain. It is completely matted with grass, having large deep holes and cracks, and
is as dry as if no rain had fallen for months. Wind, south-east.

Tuesday, 18th June, Lawson Creek. Proceeded to Hunter Creek. Tracks of natives upon ours to
Hawker Creek. Light winds, variable.

Wednesday, 19th June, Hawker Creek. Although the water holes in this creek are full from recent
rains, the water is very hard, evidently showing it must come from a spring in the hills. Proceeded
to the Hunter along the foot of the hills, and at nine miles crossed the large gum creek, where
I watered the horses on my north course; this I have named Powell Creek, after J.W. Powell,
Esquire, of Clare. At twenty miles crossed another gum creek, which I have named Gleeson Creek,
after E.B. Gleeson, Esquire, J.P., of Clare. Camped on the Hunter. Between this and Hawker
Creek we crossed eleven gum creeks with water in them. The country passed over is not so good,
being close to the hills: it is scrubby, and generally covered with spinifex. Wind, south-east.

Thursday, 20th June, Hunter Creek. Three horses missing; could not be found until too late
to reach the other water to-night. Wind, calm.

Friday, 21st June, Hunter Creek. Proceeded to the water under Mount Primrose, over stony hills,
the highest of which I have named Mount Shillinglaw, after ---- Shillinglaw, Esquire, F.R.C.S.,
of Melbourne, who kindly presented me with Flinders' Charts of North Australia. Calm.

Saturday, 22nd June, Carruthers Creek. Proceeded to Tomkinson Creek, where I left the two horses;
I will there rest the horses a day, and have those shod which I intend to take with me. The
last two days have been over very stony country, which has made some of the horses quite lame.
I am now running short of shoes. We can see nothing of the two horses about our old camp. Light
wind from north-east, with a few clouds. Very hot in the middle of the day; evenings and mornings
cold.

Sunday, 23rd June, Tomkinson Creek. Sent Thring and Woodforde down the creek, and Masters up
into the open plain, to see if they could find the horses on their tracks. In the afternoon
they returned unsuccessful, except Masters, who had seen their tracks when the ground was boggy.
Recent tracks of natives were also seen. If they have not been frightened away, they will not
be far off. I have instructed Sullivan to follow their tracks, and try to find them during
my absence. Wind, north-east, with a few clouds. The sun is very hot in the middle of the day.

Monday, 24th June, Tomkinson Creek. Started with Thring, Masters, and Lawrence, and ten horses,
with fourteen days' provisions, at 7.40 a.m.; course, 270 degrees east. We crossed the plain
and the creek several times. At 12.20, fifteen miles, ascended a stony rise, and saw that the
creek emptied itself into an open grassy plain, about two miles north of us. Proceeded on the
same course over a gum plain covered with grass for five miles. The country then became sandy
soil, slightly undulating, with ironstone, gravel, spinifex, gums, and occasionally a little
scrub, which continued throughout the day. Camped without water. Very little feed for the horses,
it being nearly all spinifex. Distance, twenty-eight miles. Wind, west; a few clouds.

Tuesday, 25th June, Spinifex and Gum Plain West. Started at 7.40 a.m. on the same course, 270
degrees. Camped at twenty-seven miles. The country travelled through to-day is bad--red sandy
light soil, covered with spinifex, slightly undulating, and having iron gravel upon it. Scarcely
a blade of grass to be seen. Some gum-trees, and a low scrub of different sorts. I seem to
have got to the south of the dense forest, but into a poorer country. Not a drop of water or
a watercourse have we seen since we left Tomkinson Creek. We have crossed two or three low
rises of ironstone gravel. Not having the dense forest to tear through has induced me to go
on all day in the hope of meeting with a change, but at the end of the day there seems as little
likelihood as when we first came upon it, and it may continue to the river. I am again forced
to return disappointed. There is no hope of making the river now; it must be done from Newcastle
Water with wells. I wish that I had twelve months' provisions and convenience for carrying
water, I should then be enabled to do it. Wind, east.

Wednesday, 26th June, Spinifex and Gum Plain. Started at 7 a.m. back towards Tomkinson Creek.
At dusk found some water on the small plain into which the creek empties itself. Camped. Distance
travelled to-day, forty miles. One of the horses completely done up. I am fortunate in finding
this water, for another night without it and I should have lost some of them. I am also glad
we had a cool day--only two hours' heat. The horses have travelled one hundred miles without
water, and the country being sandy, made it very heavy walking for them. Wind, east.

Thursday, 27th June, Tomkinson Creek. Started for the camp, and arrived at noon. Sullivan had
gone after the horses, and lost himself for three days and two nights. Not making his appearance
the first night, Kekwick sent Woodforde in search of him from south-east to north. Not returning
the second night, Kekwick and Woodforde went out in another direction to try if they could
cut his tracks, but were again unsuccessful. At about 3 a.m. he came into the camp perfectly
bewildered, and did not seem to recognise anyone. From what we can learn from him he must have
gone to the south instead of the east, where the tracks of the two horses were seen. On the
first night he came close to the camp--saw the other horses feeding, but could not find them.
He can give no account of where he went the next day and night; on the third day he cut my
outward tracks to the west, and the horse brought him to the camp. I observed his horse's tracks
upon ours this morning, about ten miles down the creek, and could not imagine how they came
there. Woodforde found the two horses he went in search of within three miles of the camp--they
had not left the creek. The cream-coloured one had improved very much; but Reformer still looks
miserable--I think he must be ill. Wind, north, with a few clouds coming from the same direction.

Friday, 28th June, Tomkinson Creek. Shoeing horses and preparing for another start. I shall
try once more to make the Gulf of Carpentaria from this. There may be a chance of my being
able to round Sturt Plains to the east or north-east. Wind, varying from south-east to north.

Saturday, 29th June, Tomkinson Creek. Shoeing horses, etc. Wind, south-east. Clouds all gone.

Sunday, 30th June, Tomkinson Creek. Wind, north-east.

Monday, 1st July, Tomkinson Creek. Started at 8.10 a.m., course 54 degrees, with Thring, Woodforde,
and Masters. At 11.20 (eleven miles), top of a high hill, which I named Mount Hawker, after
the Honourable George C. Hawker, Speaker of the House of Assembly, S.A. At 12.45, four miles,
struck a large creek; its course a little east of north, which I have named McKinlay Creek,
after John McKinlay, Esquire. The first part of the journey was over stony undulations, gradually
rising until we reached the top of Mount Hawker, the view from which was not very extensive
on our course, being intercepted by stony spurs of the range nearly the same height, about
eight hundred feet, and very rocky and precipitous. They are composed of sandstone, quartz,
iron, limestone, and hard white flinty rocks. The sandstone predominates. We descended with
great difficulty, crossed McKinlay Creek, and at five miles ascended another high hill, which
I have named Mount Hall, after the Honourable George Hall, M.L.C. From this our view is most
extensive, over a complete sea of white grassy plains. At about fifteen or twenty miles south-east
are the terminations of other spurs of this range; beyond them nothing is visible on the horizon
but white grassy plains. To the east and north-east the same. To the north apparently a strip
of dense scrub and forest, which seems to end about north-east, beyond which, in the far distance,
we can see the large grassy plain I turned back from on the 21st of May and 15th of June. No
rising ground visible except the hills of Ashburton range to north-west and south-east. Descended
towards the plains over stony rises, with gum-tree, lancewood, and other scrub and spinifex.
At five miles reached the plain. It is of the same description as the other parts I have been
over. No appearance of water. It is hopeless to proceed further; it will only be rendering
my return more difficult, by reducing the strength of my horses, without the slightest hope
of success. All hope of gaining the Gulf without wells is now gone. I have therefore turned
back to a small plain (four miles), searched round it, and in one of the small creeks found
a little rain water, at which I have camped. Wind, south.

Tuesday, 2nd July, Loveday Creek. This creek I have named Loveday Creek, after R.J. Loveday,
Esquire, Lithographer to the South Australian Government. Returned towards the camp. On reaching
McKinlay Creek I was informed by Woodforde that Masters had remained behind, about six miles
back, and had not yet come up. This is against my strict orders which are that no one shall
leave the party without informing me, that I may halt and wait for them. I have sent Thring
back to one of the hills to fire off a gun, and see if he is to be seen, as I have left my
outward tracks to avoid crossing Mount Hall--and the tracks are very difficult to be seen over
such stony country. I am afraid that he is lost. In an hour and a half, Thring returned; he
can see nothing of him. He cut our former tracks, but can see nothing of his on them. My conjectures,
I fear, are too true. If he has missed the tracks, it is a thousand chances to one if he is
ever found again. To track a single horse is impossible. I proceeded towards Mount Hawker,
and camped on my outward tracks, at a remarkable gorge that we had come through. Sent Thring
back to the top of Mount Hall to raise a smoke, to remain there some time, and see if he comes
up; if not, he is to proceed to our last night's camp, there to remain all night, in case he
should go there--while I and Woodforde raised another smoke on top of Mount Hawker. A little
after 2 p.m. Thring returned with him. He found him on a hill near Mount Hall, looking for
the tracks. He was quite bewildered, and in a great state of excitement. I am most thankful
that he is found. The account that he gives is, that his horse slipped the reins out of his
hand, and that he was unable to catch him for some time, and when he did so, he was unable
to find our tracks, or to track his own horse back, and he became quite confused. He seems
to be most thankful for his narrow escape. As it is too late to reach the camp, I shall remain
here to-night. Wind, west.

Wednesday, 3rd July, Under Mount Hawker. Proceeded to the camp on the Tomkinson. Found all
right, with the exception of one of the horses (Reformer), which cannot be found. He is one
of the two that I left here formerly, and was looking so ill when I found him. He was last
seen on Monday night, when he looked miserable. I have sent three men in search of him. Wind,
variable.

Thursday, 4th July, The Tomkinson. Started at 8.20 a.m., course 300 degrees, with Woodforde,
Thring, and Masters, ten horses, and a month's provisions, to try once more to make the Victoria.
Between my first and last attempts, I may succeed. I am very unwilling to return without trying
all that is in my power. At three miles we left the plains, and proceeded over stony rises
for two miles. The country then became sandy, with gum, spinifex, and lancewood scrub, not
difficult to get through. There is no grass. At twenty-five miles came to a little, and, as
I am not sure of coming upon any more soon, I camped. We have seen no water since leaving the
creek. Latitude, 18 degrees 25 minutes 40 seconds. Wind, south-east.

Friday, 5th July, Spinifex and Gum Plains. Started at 7.50 a.m., course 360 degrees, to find
water. At 9.10 (five miles), struck a creek with water; followed it down, course 285 degrees,
and at eight miles camped on the last water. The banks in places have good feed upon them,
but there is a great deal of spinifex and scrub. The creek is getting narrower, and, as the
horses had but little to eat last night, I shall give them the remainder of the day here, for
there is no telling when they will get another good feed. Day exceedingly hot, horses covered
with sweat. This I have named Burke Creek, after my brother explorer, Richard O'Hara Burke,
Esquire, of Melbourne. On camping I saw a remarkable bird fly up; I sent Woodforde to try and
shoot him, which he did. It was of a dark-brown colour, and spotted like the landrail; the
tail feathers were nine in number, and twelve inches long. I have had it skinned, and will
endeavour to take it to Adelaide. Thring, Woodforde, and Masters cooked the body, and ate it.
They had scarcely finished, when, in a moment, they were seized with violent vomiting, but
in a few minutes they were all right again. Wind, calm. Latitude, 18 degrees 19 minutes 30 seconds.

Saturday, 6th July, Burke Creek. Started at 7.45 a.m., same course, to follow the creek (285
degrees). At three miles it was lost in a grassy gum plain; changed to 300 degrees. On this
course the plain continued for three miles; it then became sandy soil, with spinifex, gums,
and scrub. Crossed a low sand hill at fourteen miles; descended into another low grassy plain
subject to inundation, which, I suppose, receives Hunter Creek. It continued for two miles,
at the end of which we again ascended a sandy rise, on the top of which the country became
a sandy table land, and continued so the rest of the day's journey. Camped without water, and
with very little grass. The table land was spinifex, gums, and scrub, in some places very difficult
to get through. Distance, thirty miles. Wind, south-east. Latitude, 18 degrees 7 minutes 5
seconds. At 7 p.m. I observed the comet, 5 degrees above the horizon, bearing 15 degrees west
of north, the nucleus more hazy, and the tail much longer. Calm.

Sunday, 7th July, West Sandy Table Land. Started at 8 a.m. on the same course. At 3 p.m. we
got into dense scrub, and, as I could see some distance on before, being on one of the slight
undulations, I felt there was not the slightest hope of obtaining water; there was no change,
no rising ground visible. It would be hopeless to continue such sandy country, as it can never
hold water on the surface. We dug five feet, in one of the small plains, but came to the clay
without finding water, or even moisture. There is not a mouthful of grass for the horses to
eat; the whole of the journey, with the exception of the small grassy plains, is spinifex,
gums, and scrub. I shall have to retreat to the last plain we passed through to get feed for
the horses, which are looking very bad. The travelling has been heavy tearing through thick
scrub, which in some places has been burned: this makes it very rough for them. I must now
give up all hope of reaching the Victoria, and am unwillingly forced to return, my horses being
nearly worn out. Wind, variable. Distance, twenty-five miles.

Monday, 8th July, Small Grass Plain in Scrub. Started at break of day and continued until 4.30
p.m. Meeting with a little grass, camped; some of the horses unable to go further. Wind, south.

Tuesday, 9th July, Sandy Table Land. Started at sunrise and arrived at Burke Creek. At 11 a.m.
turned the horses out to feed for two hours, and proceeded up the creek to where I first struck
it. Camped. At a little more than a mile down the creek from here, there is a course of concrete
ironstone running across it, which forms a large pond of water nearly a mile in length, apparently
deep and permanent. Wind, west.

Wednesday, 10th July, Burke Creek. Shortly after sunrise proceeded toward the main camp, and
arrived there at 3 p.m. Found all well. The natives have been about. They attacked Wall while
in search of the missing horse; he and his horse narrowly escaped being hit by their boomerangs.
The missing horse cannot be found. I suppose that he has crept into some bushes and died; for,
the night before he was missed, he left the other horses and came to the camp fire; he appeared
to be very stupid, and for some time they could not get him away; when they did so, he went
off reeling. Wind, south-west.

Thursday, 11th July, Tomkinson Creek. Shoeing horses, and repairing saddles and bags to carry
our provisions back. We have now run out of everything for that purpose, and are obliged to
make all sorts of shifts. The two tarpaulins that I brought from Mr. Chambers's station for
mending the bags, are all used up some time ago, and nearly all the spare bags; the sewing-twine
has been used long since, and we are obliged to make some from old bags. We are all nearly
naked, the scrub has been so severe on our clothes; one can scarcely tell the original colour
of a single garment, everything is so patched. Our boots are also gone. It is with great reluctance
that I am forced to return without a further trial. I should like to go back, and try from
Newcastle Water, but my provisions will not allow me. I started with thirty weeks' supply at
seven pounds of flour per week, and have now been out twenty-six, and it will take me ten weeks
before I can reach the first station. The men are also failing, and showing the effects of
short rations. I only wish I had sufficient to carry me over until the rain will fall in next
March. I think I should be able to make both the Victoria and the Gulf. I had no idea when
starting that the hills would terminate so soon in such extensive level country, without water,
or I should have tried to make the river, and see what the country was, when I first saw the
rising grounds from Mount Primrose, which are the sand and iron undulations passed over on
my southernmost western journey. Before I went to Newcastle Water they completely deceived
me; for from the top of the mount they had the appearance of a high range, which I was glad
to see, thinking that if the range I was then following up should cease, or if I could not
find a way into the river further north, I would be sure to get in by that distant range, which
caused me to leave the Newcastle Water country sooner than I should otherwise have done; and
now I have not provisions to take me back again. From what I have seen of the country to the
west and south of Newcastle Water, I am of opinion that it would be no use trying again to
make the river, for I believe no water can be obtained by sinking. To the west and north-west
of Newcastle Water the country is apparently lower, and I think that water could be obtained
at a moderate depth. It is the shortest distance between the waters; but the greatest difficulty
would be in getting through the dense forest and scrub, but that, I should think, could be
overcome. It certainly is a great disappointment to me not to be able to get through, but I
believe I have left nothing untried that has been in my power. I have tried to make the Gulf
and river, both before rain fell, and immediately after it had fallen; but the results were
the same, UNSUCCESSFUL. Even after the rain I could not get a step further than before it.
I shall commence my homeward journey to-morrow morning. Wind, south. The horses have had a
severe trial from the long journeys they have made, and the great hardships and privations
they have undergone. On my last journey they were one hundred and six hours without water.

On Friday, July 12th, Mr. Stuart quitted Tomkinson Creek to return to Adelaide, and on the
following Friday reached Ann Creek on the north side of the Murchison range. On the 30th, the
party proceeded across the Centre, and camped south-west of it, on the Hanson. The nights now
became very cold, and there was usually white frost on the grass, and ice in the buckets every
morning. On August 6th they camped under Brinkley Bluff, and remained there until the 8th.
The Hamilton was reached on the 23rd, and here the natives again showed some hostility, contenting
themselves, however, with yelling and howling, and endeavouring to set fire to the grass, in
which they were happily unsuccessful. On Saturday, August 31st, they arrived at Mr. Levi's
station, where all of them "were overjoyed at once more seeing the face of a white man." They
were received with great kindness and attention. After remaining there three days they proceeded
by way of Louden Spa, William Springs, Paisley Ponds, and Hamilton Springs to Chambers Creek,
where they arrived on September 7th and remained until the 10th.

The last entry in Mr. Stuart's journal is as follows:

Sunday, 15th September, Moolooloo. I shall leave to-morrow for Port Augusta, and proceed by
steamer for Adelaide, leaving the party to be brought into town by Mr. Kekwick.

I cannot close my Journal without expressing my warmest thanks to my second in command, and
my other companions; they have been brave, and have vied with each other in performing their
duties in such a manner as to make me at all times feel confident that my orders were carried
out to the best of their ability, and to my entire satisfaction; and I also beg to tender my
best thanks to the promoters (Messrs. Chambers and Finke) and the Government, for the handsome
manner I was fitted out.

JOHN McDOUALL STUART,

Leader of the Expedition.

Mr. Stuart made his public entry into Adelaide on Monday, 23rd September, and reported himself
to the authorities. Almost at the same time the Victorian Government obtained their first traces
of the survivors of the ill-fated expedition under Burke and Wills.* (* The news of their death
reached Melbourne on November 2nd.) The South Australian Government had such confidence in
Mr. Stuart that, on his expressing his readiness to make another attempt to cross the continent,
they at once closed with his offer, and in less than a month (on October 21st) the new expedition
started from Adelaide to proceed to Chambers Creek, and get everything in order there for a
final start. Mr. Stuart accompanied them for a few miles to see that everything went on well,
when, one of the horses becoming restive, he advanced with the intention of cutting the rope
which was choking the animal; the horse reared and struck him on the temple with its fore foot,
knocking him down and rendering him insensible. The brute then sprang forward and placed one
of his hind feet on Mr. Stuart's right hand, and, rearing again, dislocated two joints of his
first finger, tearing the flesh and nail from it, and injuring the bone to such an extent that
amputation of the finger was at first thought unavoidable. By careful treatment, however, it
was unnecessary to resort to such a course, and in five weeks the leader was able to start
to overtake his party, some of whom were to remain at Moolooloo until he joined them.

In no way discouraged either by his own unlucky accident and previous want of success, or by
the melancholy end of his brother explorers, Burke and Wills, Mr. Stuart arrived at Moolooloo
on Friday, December 20th, and at Finniss Springs on the 29th. The names of the party were as
follows:

John McDouall Stuart, Leader of the Expedition. William Kekwick, Second Officer. F.W. Thring,
Third Officer. W.P. Auld, Assistant. Stephen King. John Billiatt. James Frew. Heath Nash. John
McGorrerey, Shoeing Smith. J.W. Waterhouse, Naturalist to the Expedition.

Besides these, there were at starting, Woodforde and Jeffries; but at Finniss Springs, the
latter struck one of his companions, and, on being called to account by his leader, refused
to go any further. As to the former, when quitting Mr. Levi's station on January 21st, it was
arranged, in order to lighten the weak horses, that the great-coats of the party should be
left, but Woodforde objected to this, and said he would not go unless he had his great-coat
with him. Mr. Stuart had very properly decided not to take any man who refused to obey orders,
and he therefore started without him. The next day Woodforde rejoined the party near Milne
Springs, but did not accompany them many days longer; for on February 3rd, shortly after starting,
he asked McGorrerey to hold his gun while he returned to get something he had left behind at
the previous night's camp. About an hour afterwards, McGorrerey discovered a piece of folded-up
paper on the nipple of the gun, and on examination this proved to be an insolent note, addressed
to his leader, stating that he had gone back, taking with him a horse, saddle, bridle, tether-rope,
and sundry other things not belonging to him. Mr. Stuart had been much dissatisfied with his
conduct for some days, and had made up his mind to send him back, believing that he was doing
everything in his power to discourage the party, and bring his leader's authority into contempt.

At Marchant Springs, where they arrived on February 15th, they began to experience annoyance
from the natives. On the 17th, as Auld was approaching the water-hole, a native who was there
called to some others who were posted in trees, and shortly afterwards a great cloud of smoke
was seen to windward, coming towards the camp. It was evidently their intention to attack the
exploring party under cover of the smoke, "but Thring, while looking for the horses, came suddenly
on three of them concealed behind a bush, armed with spears and boomerangs; he did not perceive
them until within twelve yards of them. They immediately jumped up, and one of them threw a
boomerang at him, which fortunately missed both him and his horse. He was obliged to use his
revolver in self defence," but with what result Mr. Stuart does not state.

The excessive heat of the weather now proved a great hindrance to the expedition. They had
already lost so many horses that a large part of their provisions, etc. had to be abandoned
on various occasions. On February 23rd, Mr. Stuart writes:

"Before reaching this place (the Hugh) five other horses gave in, and were unable to proceed
further. I cannot understand the cause of the horses knocking up so much; every one of them
has fallen off the last week. Whether it is the excessive heat or the brackish water of the
Finke, I am unable to say. Last night I tried some citric acid in the water of the Finke, and
it caused it to effervesce, showing that the water contained soda." It was afterwards ascertained
that the horses were suffering from worms, which may partially account for their failing strength.

After leaving the Hugh, on February 25th, they were again annoyed by the natives. When about
half-way through the gorge, they "set fire to the grass and dry wood across the creek, which
caused a dense smoke to blow in our faces. I had the party prepared for an attack. After passing
through the smoke and fire, three natives made their appearance about twenty-five yards off,
on the hill side, armed with spears and shields, and bidding us defiance by placing the spears
in the womeras, and yelling out at the highest pitch of their voices. I ordered Auld to dismount
and fire a shot a little distance on one side of them, to let them know what distance our weapons
carried. The ball struck the rock pointed out to him to aim at, and stopped their yelling,
but seemed to have no other effect. I again ordered him to fire at the rock on which the middle
one of the three was standing; the shot was a good one, for the ball struck the desired spot,
and immediately had the effect of sending them all off at full speed."

Again, on March 5th, while crossing the plains under Mount Hay, they came suddenly on three
natives armed with long spears and shields, who ran off into the scrub. A short distance further,
while watering the horses at some rain water, these three natives returned, accompanied by
four others, and made signs of hostility, by yelling and shaking their spears, and performing
other threatening antics while widely separating themselves in a half-circle. Mr. Stuart says:
"I had the party prepared to receive an attack; but when they saw us stationary they approached
no nearer. I ordered some of the party to fire close to them, to show them we could injure
them at a long distance, if they continued to annoy us, but they did not seem at all frightened
at the report of the rifles nor the whizzing of the balls near to them, since they still remained
in a threatening attitude. With the aid of a telescope we could perceive a number of others
concealed in the belt of scrub. They all seemed fine muscular men. There was one tall fellow
in particular with a large shield and a very long spear (upwards of twelve feet), which he
seemed very anxious to use if he could have got within distance. We crossed the creek, and
had proceeded a short distance across the plain, when they again came running towards us, apparently
determined to attack; they were received with a discharge of rifles, which caused them to retire
and keep at a respectful distance. Having already wasted too much time with them, I proceeded
over the plain, keeping a sharp look-out; should they threaten us again, I shall allow them
to come close, and make an example of them. It is evident their designs are hostile. Before
entering the scrub we could see no signs of them following. About sundown, arrived at Mount
Harris without further annoyance."

A week later (on March 12th) the Centre was passed; and on the 17th, while going from Woodforde
Creek through the bad country towards the Bonney, Thring met with an awkward accident, which
his leader thus describes: "Being anxious to keep my old tracks through the scrub, as it does
not wear the saddle-bags so much as breaking through a new line, I missed them about two miles
after starting, in consequence of the earliness and cloudiness of the morning. I sent Thring
in search of them, and he, on finding them a short distance off, fired his revolver to let
us know that the tracks were found. The young horse he was riding stood the first report very
well. I, not hearing the report, was moving on, which caused him to fire again, whereupon his
horse backed and threw him with violence to the ground on his chest. He feels his chest is
much hurt by the fall. The horse then returned on the tracks at full gallop," and was not recovered
until shortly before sundown.

The party camped at Attack Creek on Friday, March 28th, and at Tomkinson Creek on the 31st.
On April 3rd, while crossing the Gleeson, Kekwick's horse fell back with him in ascending the
bank, and broke the stock of his gun, but he himself escaped unhurt. On Saturday, April 5th,
they camped at the east end of Newcastle Water, and the following day, "at about 9 o'clock
a.m. Kekwick, in endeavouring to shoot some ducks, went towards some native smoke, and was
met by two natives, who ran away. In an hour afterwards, five natives came within a hundred
yards of the camp, and seemed anxious to come up to it, but were not permitted. Two hours afterwards
we were again visited by fifteen more, to some of whom a present was made of some looking-glasses
and handkerchiefs; at the same time they were given to understand that they must not approach
nearer to the camp, and signs were made to them to return to their own camp, which they shortly
did. In the afternoon we were again visited by nineteen of them, who approached within a hundred
yards of the camp, when they all sat down and had a good stare at us, remaining a long time
without showing any inclination to go. At length some of them started the horses which were
feeding near the water, and made them gallop towards the camp. This so frightened the natives
that they all ran away, and we were not troubled with them for the rest of the evening."

The next day the camp was moved to the north end of Newcastle Water, where they remained for
a week resting horses and repairing bags, saddles, etc. The Journal then continues as follows:

Monday, 14th April, North End of Newcastle Water. Leaving Mr. Kekwick in charge of the party,
started with Thring and Frew at 7.15 a.m., on a northerly course, in search of water; and at
six miles, on the edge of the open plains, found some rainwater, sufficient for a few days.
Proceeded across the plain on the same course; but at three miles saw something like a watercourse,
and changed my course to 20 degrees, to see what it was. At two miles I struck a dry course
running south-west. Followed it up towards the small rise without finding any water. Three
miles further on the same course I ascended a low stony rise, from which I could see nothing
but a thick forest of tall mulga and gums. I changed to a northerly course, and, at 4.20 p.m.,
camped in a forest without water. Wind, south-east.

Tuesday, 15th April, Sturt Plains, Forest. Proceeded on a course of 250 degrees, and at five
miles again struck the open plains, and changed to 180 degrees. At one mile I found a fine
water hole three feet deep and about forty feet in diameter, the edge of which was surrounded
with conglomerate ironstone rock; watered the horses, and proceeded on a southerly course,
through grassy plains with stunted gum-trees, to the first water I found yesterday, and camped.
The plains and forest are of the same description as I have already given, only that the plains
have not quite so many holes in them, and the forest in many places is covered with ironstone
gravel. I shall try a course to the north of west to-morrow, to see if I can find water. Wind
variable.

Wednesday, 16th April, Frew's Water Hole, Sturt Plains. Started at 7.45 a.m., on a course of
302 degrees, keeping along the edge of the open plain. I have made many twistings and turnings,
but my general course is north-west for ten miles. Seeing a small rise on the open plain, a
little to the north of west, I changed to 275 degrees; and at two miles came on some fine ponds
of water about one mile and a half long, twenty feet broad, and three feet and a half deep.
I examined them on both sides, to see if they would do for a permanent camp for the party as
it is a point nearer; and I think I may depend on the water lasting two months without any
more rain. I shall camp here to-night, and try another day to-morrow to the westward, and endeavour
to make the Victoria, for I can see but little chance of making the Adelaide. By my journal
of the 14th, everything is quite dry and parched up; no rain seems to have fallen there for
a long time. The last two days have been excessively hot. The further to the west the hotter
I find it. The natives seem to be numerous, for their smoke in the scrub is to be seen in every
direction. I name these ponds after John Howell, Esquire, of Adelaide.

Thursday, 17th April, Howell Ponds. Started at 7 a.m., on a bearing 10 degrees north of west.
At twelve miles crossed the open plains, and entered a thick forest of gums and other trees
and shrubs. Seeing that there is no chance of finding water to-day, returned to the ponds.
The open plains seem to tend more to the north-west; I shall examine them when I bring the
party up to the ponds. Distance, fifteen miles. Wind, south-east.

Friday, 18th April, Howell Ponds. Started for the camp on the Newcastle Water. On my arrival,
I found the party all right, but very anxious about me, as I had been absent longer than I
intended. No natives had been near them during my absence at this time; smoke was seen all
around. Weather hot during the day, but cold at night and in the morning. Wind, south-east.

Saturday, 19th April, North End of Newcastle Water. I shall remain here till Monday, in order
to take some lunar observations, as I am not quite certain that my longitude is correct. Wind,
south-east.

Sunday, 20th April, North End of Newcastle Water. Wind from the east; blowing strongly during
the day, but it dropped a little before sundown, allowing the mosquitoes to annoy us very much.

Monday, 21st April, North End of Newcastle Water. Some of the horses having strayed some distance
made it 10 o'clock a.m. before I could get a start. Proceeded through six miles of forest and
scrub to the water that I found on the 14th instant; from thence I changed to 301 degrees 30
minutes for nine miles, and then to 275 degrees, and at two miles camped at the ponds I had
discovered on the 16th. Native smoke all around us. The day has been very hot, and the flies
a perfect nuisance. Wind, south-east.

Tuesday, 22nd April, Howell Ponds. Preparing for a start to-morrow to the north-west in search
of water. Wind, south-east.

Wednesday, 23rd April, Howell Ponds. At 9.55 (seven miles) changed to 320 degrees. At 11.20
(four miles and a half) crossed the open plain, changing to 40 degrees to avoid the scrub.
At one mile and a half changed to west. At one mile changed to north-west. At 2.20 (five miles)
changed to 45 degrees. At 3 o'clock (two miles) changed to north. At 3.25 one mile and a half
changed to north-west. At 3.45 camped without water. I have skirted the border of the forest
land in the hope of finding water, but am disappointed. I have not seen a drop since I started.
The plains are covered with beautiful grass, two or three feet high. There are a great many
different kinds of birds about, and native smoke all round. I have searched every place where
I thought there was the least chance of finding water, but without success. The day has been
exceedingly hot. With such hot weather as this I dare not attempt to make the Victoria. The
horses could not stand a hundred and forty miles without water. Those I have had with me to-day
seem to have suffered enough, and would not stand another two days without. I must therefore
return to the camp to-morrow. Wind, calm.

Thursday, 24th April, Sturt Plains. Returned to the camp and found all right. The day has been
excessively hot. We have seen nothing new during the journey--the same open plains, with forest
between. After that, we entered again a thick forest, and scrub almost impassable. At twenty-eight
miles, seeing no prospect of getting through it, I returned two miles to a small open space,
where I could tether the horses. I have not seen a drop of water this day's journey. The forest
is so very thick, and so many twistings and turnings are required to pass through it, that,
although I travelled thirty miles, I don't believe I made more than fifteen miles in a straight
line. The day again exceedingly hot, with a few clouds. A few birds were seen during this day's
journey, but no pigeons, which are the only sign we have now of being near water. Wind variable.

Saturday, 26th April, Dense Forest. Returned to the camp. The horses felt the heat and the
want of water very much. In the forest the heat was almost suffocating. I hope it will rain
soon and cool the ground and replenish the ponds, which are drying up fast. There have been
a few clouds during the day, but after sundown they all cleared away. Wind, south-east.

Sunday, 27th April, Howell Ponds. A few clouds have again made their appearance, but still
no rain. There has not fallen a drop of rain since I left the Woodforde, which was on the 9th
of March. Wind, south-east. Latitude, 17 degrees 5 minutes 16 seconds. At ten miles we crossed
the open plain, with stunted gum-trees and long grass. At this point we met with a small ironstone
rise, about twenty feet in height. On ascending I was again disappointed in finding before
me a dense forest and scrub. Proceeding in our course, it became thicker than any which I had
ever encountered before, and was almost impassable. Still continued, and for a short distance
in some places it became more open. A little before sundown I camped on the edge of a stunted
gum-tree plain. There are a few slate-coloured cockatoos and other birds, which lead me to
hope that, in the morning, I may drop across some water. Wind variable, with a few clouds during
the day.

Tuesday, 29th April, Sturt Plains. Started on an easterly course, following the flight of the
birds; but at five miles crossed the open gum plain, and again encountered the thick forest.
Examined every place I could see or think of where water was likely to be found, but was again
disappointed--not a drop was to be seen. Changed my course, so as to keep on the plain; at
four miles again crossed, and again met the dense forest, but still no water. Changed to south-east,
and at ten miles found ourselves on a large stunted-gum plain. Changed to a little east of
south, and arrived at the camp without seeing a drop of water. Wind variable, with heavy clouds
from the east.

Wednesday, 30th April, Howell Ponds. I feel so unwell to-day that I am unable to go out, besides
I shall require my compass case and other things mended; they got torn to pieces in the last
journey by the forest and the scrub. Yesterday's clouds are all gone, and have left us no rain.
Another hot day. Wind, east. This water hole I have named Frew's Water Hole, in token of my
approbation of his care of, and attention to, the horses. This waterhole is about twenty feet
below the plain, surrounded by a conglomerate ironstone rock. Since my last visit it is only
reduced two inches, and is still a large body of clear water from the drainage of the adjacent
country; it will last much longer than I anticipated. I shall use my best endeavours to-morrow
to find an opening in the thick scrub from north to north-west. The course of the forest seems
to run a little west of north, and I am afraid the open plains are surrounded by it; however,
I shall try to get through it if I possibly can. Wind, south-east. Day excessively hot.

Friday, 2nd May, Frew's Water Hole. Started at half-past seven o'clock a.m. Course, 335 degrees.
At ten miles, a dense forest and scrub. Changed to 10 degrees east of north. At half a mile
struck a water-shed, and followed it north for two miles. Found a little rainwater in it, and
at two miles further arrived at its source. At three miles further on the same course changed
to 30 degrees east of north. At three miles and a half again changed to 320 degrees, and at
about a mile and a half struck some fine ponds of water. At two miles further, arrived at what
seemed to be the last water, a small shallow pond. Examined around the plain to try and find
others, but without success. A little before sundown, returned to the last water and camped.
The first part of the day's journey was over a stunted-gum plain, covered with grass. At ten
miles we again met with thick forest and scrub. I then changed my course to get out of it,
and struck the small water-shed running to the east of south. Following it generally for two
miles on a northerly course, we met with a little rain water. Continued the same course through
a thick forest and scrub for three miles and a half to get through it if possible. At this
point it becomes denser than ever. Sent Thring to climb to the top of a tree, from which he
saw apparently a change in one of the low scrubby rises, which appeared to be not so thickly
covered with scrub as the others. I directed my course to it, 30 degrees east of north, to
examine it. I observe that there is some sandstone in the low scrubby rises, which leads me
to hope that I may not be far from a change of country. On this last course we travelled three
miles, through a dense thicket of hedge-tree, when I observed some large gum-trees bearing
320 degrees, and decided to examine them before leaving the rise. As I approached nearer to
it I again sent Thring to climb a tree to see if there was any change. He could see nothing
but the same description of forest and scrub. The change that he saw from the other tree was
the shade of the sun on the lower mulga bushes, which caused him to suppose that it was more
open country. Not seeing any opening in that direction, I changed to the gum-trees. At a mile
and a half was delighted at the sight of a chain of fine water holes; their course north-west
to south-east, the flow apparently to south-east. I followed one pond, which was about half
a mile long and appeared to be deep. A number of smaller ones succeeded. They then ceased,
and I crossed a small plain, which shows signs of being at times covered with water. Observing
some green and white barked gum-trees on the west side of it, I went to them, and found a small
watercourse with small pools of water, which flowed into the plain coming from the north-west.
Following it a little further, we met with some more water. A short distance above this it
ceased in the dense forest which seems to surround these ponds. I shall endeavour to force
my way through it to-morrow to the west of north. Wind, south-east, with a few clouds in the
same direction. These ponds I name King's Ponds, in token of my approbation of his care of,
and attention to, the horses, and his readiness and care in executing all my orders. Wind,
south-east, with a few clouds in the same direction.

Saturday, 3rd May, King's Chain of Ponds. Started at twenty minutes past seven a.m., on a course
of 350 degrees. At twenty-four miles changed to 45 degrees; at three miles and a half changed
to north; at two miles and a half camped. At two miles from our last night's camp found an
easy passage through the forest; the rest of the twenty-four miles was over a well-grassed
country, well wooded with gum and some new trees that I had found last year, and occasionally
a little scrub, in some places thick for a short distance. On my first course, before changing,
I was crossing low ironstone undulations, which caused me to think I was running along the
side of one of the scrubby rises. I therefore changed to 45 degrees east of north to make the
plain--if there is any--the scrub being so thick that I cannot see more than fifty yards before
me. At three miles and a half I found that I was travelling over the same description of small
rises and getting into much thicker scrub. I again changed to north, to see if that would lead
me into a plain. At two miles and a half it was still the same, and apparently a thick forest
and scrub before us. I camped a little before sundown at a small open place to tether the horses.
I have not seen a drop of water during the whole journey, nor any place likely to retain it,
with the exception of a small flat about six miles from the last camp. The day very hot. Wind,
south-east, with a few clouds.

Sunday, 4th May, Dense Forest. Returned to King's Ponds. This country seems but little frequented
by the natives, as we have seen no recent tracks of them. There are a number of cockatoos and
other birds about. We have seen no other game, except one wallaby and one kangaroo. There are
plenty of old emu tracks about the ponds. Wind, variable. Cloudy.

Monday, 5th May, King's Ponds. Returned to Frew's Water Hole and camped. Before sundown the
sky became overcast with clouds. Wind variable.

Tuesday, 6th May, Frew's Water Hole. Towards morning we had a few drops of rain. Returned to
the camp and found all well. Yesterday they were visited by a few natives who seemed to be
very friendly; they called water ninloo: they were armed with spears, about ten feet long,
having a flat sharp flint point about six inches long, with a bamboo attached to the other
end. They pointed to the west as the place where they got the bamboo and water also, but they
seemed to know nothing of the country north of this; they were tall, well-made, elderly men.
After talking for some time they went away very quietly. To-day they have set fire to the grass
round about us, and the wind being strong from the south-east it travelled with great rapidity.
In coming into the camp, about three miles back, I and the two that were with me narrowly escaped
being surrounded by it; it was as much as our horses could do to get past it, as it came rolling
and roaring along in one immense sheet of flame and smoke, destroying everything before it.

Wednesday, 7th May, Howell Ponds. Resting. The natives have not again visited us, but their
smoke is seen all around. I shall start to-morrow on a course west of north, to try and make
the Victoria by that route. I shall take some of the waterbags with me to see how they answer.
Wind, south-east. Clouds all gone. Started at half-past eight a.m., keeping the former tracks
made on my previous journey to the westward, to where we met with the thick forest. About a
mile beyond, struck a native track, followed it, running nearly north-west, until nearly three
o'clock p.m., when we came upon a small water hole or opening in the middle of a small plain,
which seems to have been dug by the natives, and is now full of rain water. This is apparently
the water that the natives pointed to, for their tracks are coming into it from every direction.
This opening I have named Nash Spring, in token of my approbation. I am very much disappointed
with the water-bags; in coming this distance of twenty-one miles they have leaked out nearly
half. Wind, south east.

Friday, 9th May, Nash Spring. Sent King and Nash with the horses that carried the water-bags
back to the depot, while I and the other two, at twenty minutes to eight o'clock a.m. proceeded
on a bearing of 290 degrees, following one of the native tracks running in that direction.
At about a mile they became invisible; for that distance I observed that a line of trees was
marked down each side of the track by cutting a small piece of bark from off the gum-trees
with a tomahawk. This I had never seen natives do before; the marks are very old. At eighteen
miles and a half struck another track (the trees cut in the same way) crossing our course;
followed it, bearing 10 degrees east of north, and at about two miles came on a native well
with moisture in it. Followed the valley on the same course, but seeing no more appearance
of water, I again changed to my original course, and, at a quarter to four o'clock, finding
that I was again entering the dense forest and scrub, I camped at a good place for feed for
the horses, but no water. The whole of the day's journey has been through a wooded country,
in some places very thick, but in most open; it is composed of gums, hedge-trees, and some
new trees--the gums predominating; there were also a few patches of lancewood scrub. For the
first eighteen miles the soil was light and sandy, with spinifex and a little grass mixed.
At the end of eighteen miles I again got into the grass country, with occasionally a little
spinifex. Wind, south-east. Cold during the night and morning.

Saturday, 10th May, The Forest. Started at five minutes to seven o'clock a.m. (same course,
290 degrees). Almost immediately encountered a dense forest of tall mulga, with an immense
quantity of dead wood lying on the ground. It was with the greatest difficulty that the horses
could be made to move through it. At a mile it became a little more open, which continued for
six miles. At seven miles I thought, from the appearance of the country, that it was dipping
towards the north-north-west; I therefore changed my course to north-west, and in less than
a mile again entered a dense forest of tall mulga, thicker than I had yet been into. Continued
pushing, tearing, and winding into it for three miles. The further I went the denser it became.
I saw that it was hopeless to continue any further. We were travelling full speed, and making
little more than a mile an hour throughout the ten miles gone over to-day. The country is a
red light soil and covered with abundance of grass, but completely dried up. No rain seems
to have fallen here for a length of time. We have not seen a bird, nor heard the chirrup of
any to disturb the gloomy silence of the dark and dismal forest--thus plainly indicating the
absence of water in and about this country. I therefore retraced my steps towards Nash Springs;
passed our last night's camp, and continued on till sundown, one of the horses being completely
knocked up. Camped without water. Wind, south-east.

Sunday, 11th May, The Forest. This morning the horse that was so bad last night was found dead,
which puts us in a very awkward position--without a pack-horse. We had to leave behind the
pack-saddle, bags, and all other things we could not carry with us on our riding-horses. Proceeded
to Nash Spring, which we reached after two o'clock p.m., with another of the horses completely
knocked up. It was with difficulty that he reached it. I suppose the days being so extremely
hot, and the feed so dry that there is little nourishment in it, is the cause of this, as they
were horses that had been out with me on my last year's journey, and had suffered from want
of water a longer time than on this occasion. I am nearly in a fix with a long journey before
me, the horses unable to do more than two nights without water, and the water-bags losing half
their contents in one day's journey. To make the Victoria through the country I have just passed
into would be impossible. I must now endeavour to find a country to the northward and make
the Roper. I am very vexed about the water-bags turning out so badly, as I was placing great
dependence on them for carrying me through. I must try and push through the best way possible.
Wind, south-east.

Monday, 12th May, Nash Spring, West Forest. Proceeded very slowly with the knocked-up horse
to the Depot; he appears to be very ill, and is looking very bad this morning. Arrived there
and found all right; they had been visited by the natives twice during my absence. They appeared
to be very friendly, and were hugging Frew and King, for whom they seemed to have taken a great
fancy; they were old, young, and children. Some pieces of white tape were given to them, which
pleased them much. They still pointed to the west, as the place where the large water is, and
made signs with a scoop to show that they have to dig for it in going through; which I am now
almost sure is the case from what I saw of the country in my last journey in that direction.
In upwards of fifty miles we did not see the least signs of a watercourse--nor could I discover
any dip in the country; it has the same appearance all round; one cannot see more than half
a mile before one, and in many places only a few yards. I have been deceived once or twice
by what appeared to be a dip in the country, but it turned out to be only lower trees and scrub
than what we were travelling through. With a small party I might make the Victoria from here,
but there is every chance of losing the horses in doing so; and I should be in a sad predicament
to be there without horses, and without the possibility of receiving supplies from the party
at the Depot; I should have to perish there. Therefore, I consider it would be folly and madness
to attempt it, and might be the cause of sacrificing the lives of both parties. Had the feed
been green, or had it any substance in it, I would have tried, but every blade of grass is
parched and dried up as in the middle of summer, and the horses have not the strength nor endurance
to undergo much privation, of which I have had a proof in the journey I have just taken. After
resting a day or two to recover the horses, and get ourselves a little refreshed, I shall move
the party up to King's Ponds, and try to push through wherever I can find an opening. Day very
hot. Wind, south-east. A few clouds came up from that quarter after sundown.

Tuesday, 13th May, Depot, Howell Ponds. Resting ourselves and horses. Day again hot, with a
few clouds round the horizon. The natives had again set fire to the country all around, which
increases the heat. I wish it would come on to rain, and put out their fires, and fill the
ponds, which are shrinking a great deal more than I expected. Wind, south-east. Clouds.

Wednesday, 14th May, Depot, Howell Ponds. As I don't feel well enough to-day, I shall remain
here, and start to-morrow morning. This morning, while Thring was collecting the horses, he
came on a place where the natives had been encamped a day or two before, and there saw the
remains of the bones of one of them that had apparently been burnt; this is another new feature
in their customs. Wind, south-east.

Thursday, 15th May, Depot, Howell Ponds. Started with the party across the plain to Frew's
Water Hole, course 15 degrees east of north; found the plain burnt for ten miles. The fire
has been so great that it has burned every blade of grass, and scorched all the trees to their
very tops. I was very fortunate the other day in having escaped it; nothing could have lived
in such a fire, and had we been caught in it we must have perished. Wind, south-east. Clouds
all gone, Latitude, 16 degrees 54 minutes 7 seconds.

Friday, 16th May, Frew's Water Hole. Started at fourteen minutes past eight o'clock a.m., course
345 degrees, for King's Chain of Ponds. Arrived at about half-past three o'clock p.m. In coming
through, one of the horses separated from the rest and bolted off into the dense forest, tearing
everything down before him. We got him in again, but with a broken saddle, and the top off
one of the bags, which we afterwards recovered. Arrived at the ponds without any further accident.
Wind, north-east. Very hot, and a few clouds. Latitude, 16 degrees 38 minutes 53 seconds.

Saturday, 17th May, King's Chain of Ponds. Sent King and Thring to follow round the flat to
see where the ponds go to. About noon they returned, and reported that the water loses itself
in a flat, which is surrounded by thick forest and scrub. This certainly is a very pretty place,
and a great pity it is not more extensive. It reminds me much of the park land found by Captain
Sturt in 1845, where he had his second depot, named Fort Grey. Wind, south-east, with a few clouds.

Sunday, 18th May, King's Chain of Ponds. In the afternoon the sky became cloudy, and at sundown
was quite overcast; the day exceedingly hot, and the wind nearly calm. The clouds came from
the north-west, and the little wind there is from the south-east.

Monday, 19th May, King's Chain of Ponds. As the sky is overcast with clouds, so that I cannot
see the sun, and as it is nearly impossible to keep a straight course in such thick country
without it, I shall remain here to-day, and if it should break up I shall endeavour to take
a lunar observation. At 9 o'clock a.m. it cleared up, which enabled me to take one. The remainder
of the day very hot. Wind variable, with clouds from every direction; towards sundown it again
settled in the south-east, and all the clouds disappeared without any rain falling. At a little
more than a mile struck a small watercourse running towards the north; followed it, and at
about two miles and a half came on some ponds of water, but not so large as those at our depot;
at present they are not more than three feet and a half deep. Examined around the wooded plain
to see if there was any larger body of water, but could see none. This plain is covered with
small gums, having a dark bluish-green leaf with a grey-coloured bark; there are also a few
white ones around the ponds of water, which abound with grass. Before reaching the plain we
crossed what seemed to be elevated sandy table land, extending about nine miles, covered with
spinifex and dark-coloured gum-trees; we also passed two or three narrow belts of tall mulga
and hedge-trees which grow on the stony rises, about twenty feet high. These ponds I name Auld's
Ponds, in token of my approbation of his conduct. Wind, south-east. Latitude, 16 degrees 28
minutes 16 seconds.

Wednesday, 21st May, Auld's Chain of Ponds. Started at twenty minutes past eight o'clock a.m.,
course north. The morning was so thick, with a heavy fog, that I did not get a start till late.
At three miles I found another chain of ponds, but not so large; these I name McGorrerey Ponds.
Proceeded on the same course and passed through some thick belts of hedge-tree and scrub; the
country then opened and became splendidly grassed, with gums and other trees. We also saw,
for the first time, a new gum-tree, having a large broad dark-green leaf, and the bark of a
nankeen colour, which gave a very pretty effect to the country. At seventeen miles, not finding
any water, and having passed five deep holes surrounded with ironstone conglomerate rock similar
to Frew's Water Hole, but without any water in them, and to all appearance the dip of the country
being to the north-east, I have changed my course to that direction, again travelling over
a splendidly grassed country for ten miles, occasionally meeting with low stony rises of ironstone
and gravel, at the foot of which were some more deep holes without water. In the last three
miles we had to get through a few patches of scrub; the grass is all very dry. No rain seems
to have fallen here for a long time. At sundown camped without water. Day very hot. Wind variable,
with a few clouds. Latitude, 16 degrees 8 minutes 39 seconds.

Thursday, 22nd May, Fine Grass Country. Returned to McGorrerey Ponds. Day very hot, and the
horses much distressed for want of water; they have the appearance of being half-starved for
a month, and have taken an immense quantity of water, having gone to it about four or five
times in an hour. As I am not satisfied that these ponds cease here, I shall try again to-morrow
a little more to the east. Wind, south-east.

Friday, 23rd May, McGorrerey Ponds. Gave the horses a little time to feed after daylight in
consequence of their having been tethered during the night; the country is so thickly wooded
that I dare not trust them in hobbles the whole night, as, if they were lost sight of there
would be great difficulty in finding them here. There is still the appearance of a small creek,
which I shall follow until it runs out or trends too much to the east. Started at half-past
eight o'clock a.m., course 20 degrees east of north, following the small creek about two miles;
it seems to be getting larger, with occasionally a little water in it. We have also seen, on
both sides of us, ponds with water surrounded by gum-trees; these ponds, when full, must retain
water for a long time. We have also seen a new tree growing on the banks of the creek, with
a large straight barrel, dark smooth bark, with bunches of bright yellow flowers and palmated
leaves. At a mile and a half further the creek is improving wonderfully. We have now passed
some fine holes of water, which will last at least three months; at five miles the water is
becoming more plentiful and the creek broader and deeper, but twisting and turning about very
much, sometimes running east and then turning to the west and all other points of the compass.
Having seen what I consider to be permanent water, I shall now run a straight course, 20 degrees
east of north, and strike it occasionally to see if the water continues. I have named these
Daly Waters, in honour of his Excellency the Governor-in-Chief. Within a hundred yards the
banks are thickly wooded with tall mulga and lancewood scrub; but to the east is open gum forest,
splendidly grassed. Proceeded, occasionally touching the creek, and always found fine reaches
of water, which continued a considerable way. At thirteen miles they become smaller and wider
apart; at fifteen miles the creek seems to be trending more to the eastward, its bed is now
conglomerate ironstone, and, as this appears to be about the last water, I shall give the horses
a drink and follow it as far as it goes. In a short distance it has become quite dry, with
a deep broad course upwards of twenty yards wide. At seventeen miles it separated into two
channels, and at a quarter of a mile the two channels emptied themselves into a large boggy
swamp, with no surface water. I examined the swamp, but could see no outlet. The country round
about is thickly timbered with gum and other trees. Returned to the last water and camped.
I shall return to the Depot and bring the party up here. Wind, south-east; a few clouds at sunset.

Saturday, 24th May, Chain of Ponds, Large Creek. Followed my tracks back to Auld's Chain of
Ponds, and had difficulty in doing so, the ground being so hard that the hoofs of the horses
scarcely left any impression on it. This would be a fearful country for any one to be lost
in, as there is nothing to guide them, and one cannot see more than three hundred yards around,
the gum-trees are so thick, and the small belts of lancewood make it very deceptive. Should
any one be so unfortunate as to be lost, it would be quite impossible to find them again; it
would be imprudent to search for them, for by so doing the searchers would run the risk of
being lost also. Arrived at Auld's Ponds and camped. Wind, south-east. A few clouds.

Sun day, 25th May, Auld's Chain of Ponds. Proceeded to the Depot, where I arrived in the afternoon
and found all well. No natives have been near them, although some of their smoke has been seen
at a short distance from the Depot. Yesterday we hoisted the Union Jack in honour of her Most
Gracious Majesty's birthday, that being the only thing we had to commemorate this happy event,
with our best wishes for her long and happy reign. Wind, south-east.

Monday, 26th May, Chain of Ponds. Removed the party on to Auld's Chain of Ponds.

Tuesday, 27th May, Auld's Chain of Ponds. Proceeded with the party to the fourth chain of ponds
and creek. This water has every appearance of being permanent, and I hope I may fall in with
such another in the next degree of latitude. It may be from this that the Wickham receives
a supply of water when this overflows. Wind, south-west. Latitude, 16 degrees 14 minutes 31
seconds.

Wednesday, 28th May, Daly Waters, Fourth Chain of Ponds and Creeks. Sent Thring and King to
round the swamp into which this creek flows, to see if there is any outlet to the eastward
of this within two miles. There are other ponds and a creek, which also empties itself into
a swamp a little to the eastward of the one into which this one empties itself. In the afternoon
they returned, having found a small watercourse forming the north-west side of the swamp; followed
it, running nearly 10 degrees east of north. In about one mile and a half they came upon a
large swamp covered with water, but shallow. They then proceeded seven miles on a north-east
course; then meeting with some white-barked gum-trees, appearing to run to the north-west,
followed them for three miles, crossing a gum and grass plain. Observing some native smoke
to north-east, they returned. Wind, south-east.

Thursday, 29th May, Daly Waters. Leaving Mr. Kekwick in charge of the camp, at half-past seven
o'clock proceeded with Thring, Auld, and Frew down the creek to examine the swamp found yesterday.
It is about 30 degrees east of north, about three miles from the Depot at Daly Waters. The
water does not appear to be deep, but covers a large area; there were a few pelicans and other
water-birds on it. From this we proceeded, on a course 20 degrees east of north, to search
the flat where Thring and King saw the smoke yesterday. At eighteen miles from Daly Waters,
having crossed the gum plain without meeting with any water, and being on apparently higher
ground than the plain, I changed my course to 90 degrees east of north. At two miles and a
half again crossed the plain, and got upon low rising ground of ironstone and gravel, but still
no water. Changed to former bearing of 20 degrees east of north, and at seven miles came upon
a dry swamp, covered with long blue grass and deep holes, but still no water could we find.
Proceeded another mile, and finding I was getting on rising ground, and the horses having done
a long and heavy day's journey, camped without water. After leaving the swamp with the water
(which was very boggy all round it), the country became similar to that of Sturt Plains surrounding
Newcastle Water, being so full of deep holes that we were in danger of getting our necks broken,
and also the horses' legs. The soil is good, and completely covered with grass and stunted
gum-trees. In rainy weather it seems to be covered with water. There is no watercourse, or
any appearance of which way the water flows. A number of various kinds of birds were about.
Wind variable, but mostly from south-west. Latitude, 15 degrees 56 minutes 11 seconds.

Friday, 30th May, North-north-east of Blue-Grass Swamp. Wishing to see a little more of the
country further on and to find where the birds get their water, I proceeded with Thring, leaving
the other two behind with the horses, three miles and a half on the same course, following
their flight. In half a mile came again upon the stunted gum plain, splendidly grassed to above
the horses' knees. Can find no water, although the birds are still round about us. The same
description of country continues from the swamp with the water to beyond this, consisting of
small undulations of gravel and ironstone. Retraced my steps to where I had left the other
two, and proceeded towards the Depot at nine miles. The country was in a blaze of fire to the
east of us. I am very thankful there was scarcely a breath of wind, which enabled us to pass
within a quarter of a mile of it: had there been a strong wind we should have been in great
danger, the grass being so long and thick. Returned to the Depot after six p.m., being all
very tired with the shaking we have had the last two days by the horses falling into the holes
nearly every step, and they also are nearly exhausted; twelve hours in the saddle over such
a country is no easy task. It was my intention to have come back more to the east, but having
seen the smoke I saw we should be in the middle of the fire, and so changed my intention. Wind,
south-west. Very hot.

Saturday, 31st May, Daly Waters. As there are no appearances of rain, the weather very hot,
and I have a good deal of work in plans, etc. to bring up, I shall remain here until Monday.
I feel this heavy work much more than I did the journey of last year; so much of it is beginning
to tell upon me. I feel my capability of endurance beginning to give way. There are a number
of small fish in this water, from three to five inches long, something resembling a perch;
the party are catching them with hooks; they are a great relish to us, who have lived so long
upon dry meat. Any change is very agreeable. Wind variable.

Sunday, 1st June, Daly Waters. The day has been as hot as if it were in the middle of summer.
Surely we must get a change soon. Wind variable, with a few light clouds. Mr. Waterhouse has
shot two new parrots.

Monday, 2nd June, Daly Waters. Leaving the party in charge of Mr. Kekwick, I started at twenty
minutes past seven (course north), with Thring, Auld, and Frew. Camped at 4.20. The whole day's
journey has been through a splendid grass country, and open forest of gum-trees and other shrubs,
some of them new to us. Here again we have also met with the bean-tree, the blossoms of a bright
crimson, and at this season they seem to shed their leaves. The country passed over consisted
mostly of undulations of ironstone and gravel, with a brown-coloured rock occasionally, between
which were broad valleys of a light-coloured soil, all cracked and having many deep holes,
which, being hidden with the long grass, caused the horses to tumble into them, and made it
very fatiguing both to them and us. I have been constantly in the hope all day of coming upon
some water, but have been disappointed. After rain this country can be passed over with the
greatest facility, for we have passed holes that will hold water for a long time. The dip of
this country is now to the eastward. To-day I think I have been running along where the dip
commences from the table land. It was my intention to have tried a journey to the north-west;
but, from what I have seen of the country to-day, and on my other journeys to the north, as
well as Mr. Gregory's description of it on the other side, I am led to believe that it would
be hopeless to expect to find water there. To try it will only be losing time, and reducing
the strength of my horses. I must now try on a north-east course towards the Gulf of Carpentaria.
I do not wish to go east if I can help it; but I must go where the water leads me. During the
day's journey we passed through three narrow belts of hedge-tree scrub, which was very thick.
There does not seem to be so much of that as we get to the north, neither is there so much
of the tall mulga. We have not seen a drop of water since we left the camp. Camped without
it. Wind, south. Day very hot. Latitude, 15 degrees 50 minutes 20 seconds.

Tuesday, 3rd June, Gum Forest. Fine country. I sent Thring on three miles to see if there was
any change, there being a number of birds about that frequent the place where water is. I think
there may still be a chance of falling in with some. He has returned and can see none. Country
the same as that travelled over yesterday. Returned to the Depot. Arrived a little before sundown,
and found all well. Wind light; south. Day again very hot.

Wednesday, 4th June, Daly Waters. Preparing for a start to-morrow to the north-east. I shall
take the water-bags; they may retain as much as will suffice for a drink night and morning
for four horses. I shall proceed to the blue-grass swamp that I found in my last north-north-east
course, trace that down as far as it goes, and, should there be no water, shall strike for
the sources of the Wickham River. Wind, south-south-east.

Thursday, 5th June, Daly Waters. Started at a quarter to eight with Thring and Auld, taking
all the water-bags full, also King and Billiatt to take back the horses that carry the water.
I have chosen King for this purpose, as being the next best bushman to Thring, and one in whom
I can place the greatest dependence to execute any charge I may give him with care and faithfulness.
At four o'clock arrived at the blue-grass swamp. Changed my course to 70 degrees east of north,
following down the middle of it, which contains a great number of large deep holes in which
water has been, but are now quite dry. Followed it until it spread itself over the plain, causing
a great number of deep cracks and holes completely covered with grass, gums, and other trees,
too thick to get an easy passage through. At sundown camped on the plain without water. A few
hours before sundown the sky had a very peculiar appearance to the eastward, as if a black
fog were rising, or smoke from an immense fire at a long distance off, but it was too extensive
for that. At sundown it assumed a more distinct aspect in the shape of black clouds coming
from that direction. Wind, south-east.

Friday, 6th June, Plain East of Blue Swamp. Sent King and Billiatt back with the horses, while
I proceeded with the other two on a course 70 degrees east of north. At a mile and a half came
suddenly upon a scrubby ironstone rise about twenty feet high. After passing over a rotten
plain, full of holes and covered with grass and stunted gum-trees, proceeded to the top, from
which we had a good view of the surrounding country--to all appearance one of the blackest
and most dismal views a man ever beheld; even the splendid grass country I had been coming
through has the same appearance. The cause of it is the trees being so thick, and some of them
of a very dark colour, that nothing but their tops can be seen, which gives it the appearance
of being a dense scrub. To the west there is an appearance of a scrubby rise--the one on which
I have been on my other journeys to the north. No hills visible; all appears to be a level
country. Proceeded down the gradual slope, crossing two other lower ironstone undulations,
meeting occasionally with small rotten plains with holes, and covered with grass. At five miles
the ground became firmer; at seven miles met with what seemed to be a water-shed. After a long
search found that the flow of the water was to the west of north; traced it a short distance
to the south-east and found a small shallow pool of water and gave our horses a drink; and
wishing to take advantage of anything that may take me to the north-west, I turned and traced
it down; passed three ponds with some water in them, and at three miles came upon a fine large
one two and a half feet deep; followed it still on, but was disappointed on finding it terminate
in a dry swamp, all cracked and full of holes; circled round it to see if the creek took up
again, but could see no appearance of any. As this last pond will do for the party, I will
return and bring them up, for there is a slight appearance of rain, and I wish to get them
on as far as possible before the winter rain comes on. Returned to our last night's camp, where
we arrived at sundown. Wind, south-east, with few clouds.

Saturday, 7th June, Plain East of Blue Swamp. Returned to the Depot; found all well. Clouds
all gone, but the wind blowing strong from the south-east.

Sunday, 8th June, Daly Waters. Strong winds still from south-east, and sometimes from the south.
Day very hot.

Monday, 9th June, Daly Waters. Last night, a little after sundown, Mr. Waterhouse was seized
with a violent pain in the stomach, which was followed by a severe sickness, and continued
throughout the night; this morning he is a little better. I think it was caused by eating some
boiled gum which had been obtained from the nut-tree Mr. Kekwick discovered last year. When
boiled it very much resembles tapioca, and has much the same taste. I also ate some of it yesterday,
which occasioned a severe pain in the stomach, but soon went off. Some of the others also felt
a little affected by it, but none so bad as Mr. Waterhouse; on others it had no effect whatever,
and they still continue to eat it. Mr. Waterhouse looks so ill that I think it desirable not
to move the party to-day, and trust by to-morrow he will be quite well. Light wind from the
south-east, with a few clouds.

Tuesday, 10th June, Daly Waters. As Mr. Waterhouse is better, I shall move the party to-day.
Started at half-past eight a.m., following my former tracks. At half-past four p.m. camped
at the blue-grass swamp; twenty-six miles without water. The horses will require to be watched
during the night. Wind, south-east. Day very hot. Latitude, 15 degrees 56 minutes 31 seconds.

Wednesday, 11th June, Blue-Grass Swamp. Started at seven o'clock; course, 70 degrees east of
north. At three miles crossed the ironstone rise, and at eleven miles changed to north, to
cut the chain of ponds, which I have named Purdie Ponds, in honour of Dr. Purdie, of Edinburgh,
M.D. At one mile and three quarters, on the last course, camped on the largest pond. The country
that we have gone over, although there are a number of holes and cracks in it, is really of
the best description, covered with grass up to the horses' bodies. We have passed several new
trees and shrubs. The bean-tree is becoming more numerous here. At this season and in this
latitude it sheds its leaves; the flower is in full bloom without them. The course of the ironstone
rise seems to be north and south. Wind, south-east. Weather a little cooler, but clouds all
gone. Latitude, 15 degrees 52 minutes 58 seconds.

Thursday, 12th June, Purdie Ponds. Preparing for another start to-morrow with the water-bags.
It takes two men nearly half a day to fill them. The orifices for filling them are a great
deal too small; they ought to be at least two inches in diameter. The American cloth with which
they are lined is useless in making them watertight, and is a great annoyance in emptying them,
for the water gets between it and the leather. It takes a long time to draw through again,
and does not answer the purpose it was intended for. A piece of calico would have done far
better. It is very vexing to bring things so far, and, when required, to find them nearly useless.
Wind, south-east. Cloudy. Nights cold, but the day hot.

Friday, 13th June, Purdie Ponds. Leaving Mr. Kekwick in charge of the party, started at fifteen
minutes past eight with Thring and Auld, also with King and Billiatt, who were to bring back
the horses carrying the water-bags. Proceeded on a north course, and at seven miles crossed
what seemed to be a water-shed, seemingly running to the west of north. Halted the party, and
sent Thring a short distance to see if the flow was in that direction. In a quarter of an hour
he returned and informed me that it was, but only very slightly so. Changed to north-north-west
to follow it. It gradually assumed the appearance of a small creek. At two miles came upon
three small pools of water. I now resolve to follow it down and see where it goes to. I should
think there must be more water further on. Its course is west of north. Continued to follow
it down, winding and twisting about very much to almost every point of the compass. At seven
miles from the pools found a little more water, but not a drop between. Allowed the horses
to drink what there was, and proceeded down it. I sent Thring to follow it on one side, while
I and the rest of the party kept on the other. By this we were enabled to cut off the bends
and see all the creeks, so that no water could escape us. Twice it became very small, and I
was afraid we were going to lose it altogether, but it commenced again and became a fine creek.
Not a drop of water. At a quarter to five camped without it. Stony rises are now commencing,
which are covered with gum and other trees, also a low scrub. They are very rough and running
nearly west and south. The one on the west is a continuation of the one I crossed in coming
to Purdie Ponds. The general flow of the creek is north. Some of the new trees are growing
very large on its banks. The cabbage-tree is growing here also. This is the first time I have
met with it, sometimes growing to the height of fifteen feet. All along the banks of the creek,
and apparently for some distance back, is covered with an abundance of grass, but all dried
up. In some places both horse and rider were completely hidden by it. Wind, south-east--few
clouds. Latitude, 15 degrees 30 minutes 27 seconds.

