ELECTRICAL ATTRACTION BETWEEN COMMON OBJECTS                     271
    From Scientific Ideas of To-day.

AN ELECTRIC SPARK                                                274
    Photo: Leadbeater.

AN ETHER DISTURBANCE AROUND AN ELECTRON CURRENT                  275
    From Scientific Ideas of To-day.

LIGHTNING                                                        278
    Photo: H. J. Shepstone.

LIGHT WAVES                                                      279

THE MAGNETIC CIRCUIT OF AN ELECTRIC CURRENT                      279

THE MAGNET                                                       279

ROTATING DISC OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON FOR MIXING COLOURS
  (Coloured Illustration)                                      280

WAVE SHAPES                                                      282

THE POWER OF A MAGNET                                            282

THE SPEED OF LIGHT                                               283
    Photo: The Locomotive Publishing Co., Ltd.

ROTATING DISC OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON FOR MIXING COLOURS             283

NIAGARA FALLS                                                    286

TRANSFORMATION OF ENERGY                                         287
    Photo: Stephen Cribb.

"BOILING" A KETTLE ON ICE                                        287
    Photo: Underwood & Underwood.

THE CAUSE OF TIDES                                               290

THE AEGIR ON THE TRENT                                           290
    Photo: G. Brocklehurst.

A BIG SPRING TIDE, THE AEGIR ON THE TRENT                        291
    Photo: G. Brocklehurst.

The Outline of Science

INTRODUCTION

There is abundant evidence of a widened and deepened interest in modern science. How could
it be otherwise when we think of the magnitude and the eventfulness of recent advances?

But the interest of the general public would be even greater than it is if the makers of new
knowledge were more willing to expound their discoveries in ways that could be "understanded
of the people." No one objects very much to technicalities in a game or on board a yacht, and
they are clearly necessary for terse and precise scientific description. It is certain, however,
that they can be reduced to a minimum without sacrificing accuracy, when the object in view
is to explain "the gist of the matter." So this OUTLINE OF SCIENCE is meant for the general
reader, who lacks both time and opportunity for special study, and yet would take an intelligent
interest in the progress of science which is making the world always new.

The story of the triumphs of modern science is one of which Man may well be proud. Science
reads the secret of the distant star and anatomises the atom; foretells the date of the comet's
return and predicts the kinds of chickens that will hatch from a dozen eggs; discovers the
laws of the wind that bloweth where it listeth and reduces to order the disorder of disease.
Science is always setting forth on Columbus voyages, discovering new worlds and conquering
them by understanding. For Knowledge means Foresight and Foresight means Power.

The idea of Evolution has influenced all the sciences, forcing us to think of everything as
with a history behind it, for we have travelled far since Darwin's day. The solar system, the
earth, the mountain ranges, and the great deeps, the rocks and crystals, the plants and animals,
man himself and his social institutions--all must be seen as the outcome of a long process
of Becoming. There are some eighty-odd chemical elements on the earth to-day, and it is now
much more than a suggestion that these are the outcome of an inorganic evolution, element giving
rise to element, going back and back to some primeval stuff, from which they were all originally
derived, infinitely long ago. No idea has been so powerful a tool in the fashioning of New
Knowledge as this simple but profound idea of Evolution, that the present is the child of the
past and the parent of the future. And with the picture of a continuity of evolution from nebula
to social systems comes a promise of an increasing control--a promise that Man will become
not only a more accurate student, but a more complete master of his world.

It is characteristic of modern science that the whole world is seen to be more vital than before.
Everywhere there has been a passage from the static to the dynamic. Thus the new revelations
of the constitution of matter, which we owe to the discoveries of men like Professor Sir J.
J. Thomson, Professor Sir Ernest Rutherford, and Professor Frederick Soddy, have shown the
very dust to have a complexity and an activity heretofore unimagined. Such phrases as "dead"
matter and "inert" matter have gone by the board.

The new theory of the atom amounts almost to a new conception of the universe. It bids fair
to reveal to us many of nature's hidden secrets. The atom is no longer the indivisible particle
of matter it was once understood to be. We know now that there is an atom within the atom--that
what we thought was elementary can be dissociated and broken up. The present-day theories of
the atom and the constitution of matter are the outcome of the comparatively recent discovery
of such things as radium, the X-rays, and the wonderful revelations of such instruments as
the spectroscope and other highly perfected scientific instruments.

The advent of the electron theory has thrown a flood of light on what before was hidden or
only dimly guessed at. It has given us a new conception of the framework of the universe. We
are beginning to know and realise of what matter is made and what electric phenomena mean.
We can glimpse the vast stores of energy locked up in matter. The new knowledge has much to
tell us about the origin and phenomena, not only of our own planet, but other planets, of the
stars, and the sun. New light is thrown on the source of the sun's heat; we can make more than
guesses as to its probable age. The great question to-day is: is there one primordial substance
from which all the varying forms of matter have been evolved?

But the discovery of electrons is only one of the revolutionary changes which give modern science
an entrancing interest.

As in chemistry and physics, so in the science of living creatures there have been recent advances
that have changed the whole prospect. A good instance is afforded by the discovery of the "hormones,"
or chemical messengers, which are produced by ductless glands, such as the thyroid, the supra-renal,
and the pituitary, and are distributed throughout the body by the blood. The work of physiologists
like Professor Starling and Professor Bayliss has shown that these chemical messengers regulate
what may be called the "pace" of the body, and bring about that regulated harmony and smoothness
of working which we know as health. It is not too much to say that the discovery of hormones
has changed the whole of physiology. Our knowledge of the human body far surpasses that of
the past generation.

The persistent patience of microscopists and technical improvements like the "ultramicroscope"
have greatly increased our knowledge of the invisible world of life. To the bacteria of a past
generation have been added a multitude of microscopic animal microbes, such as that which causes
Sleeping Sickness. The life-histories and the weird ways of many important parasites have been
unravelled; and here again knowledge means mastery. To a degree which has almost surpassed
expectations there has been a revelation of the intricacy of the stones and mortar of the house
of life, and the microscopic study of germ-cells has wonderfully supplemented the epoch-making
experimental study of heredity which began with Mendel. It goes without saying that no one
can call himself educated who does not understand the central and simple ideas of Mendelism
and other new departures in biology.

The procession of life through the ages and the factors in the sublime movement; the peopling
of the earth by plants and animals and the linking of life to life in subtle inter-relations,
such as those between flowers and their insect-visitors; the life-histories of individual types
and the extraordinary results of the new inquiry called "experimental embryology"--these also
are among the subjects with which this OUTLINE will deal.

The behaviour of animals is another fascinating study, leading to a provisional picture of
the dawn of mind. Indeed, no branch of science surpasses in interest that which deals with
the ways and habits--the truly wonderful devices, adaptations, and instincts--of insects, birds,
and mammals. We no longer deny a degree of intelligence to some members of the animal world--even
the line between intelligence and reason is sometimes difficult to find.

Fresh contacts between physiology and the study of man's mental life; precise studies of the
ways of children and wild peoples; and new methods like those of the psycho-analyst must also
receive the attention they deserve, for they are giving us a "New Psychology" and the claims
of psychical research must also be recognised by the open-minded.

The general aim of the OUTLINE is to give the reader a clear and concise view of the essentials
of present-day science, so that he may follow with intelligence the modern advance and share
appreciatively in man's continued conquest of his kingdom.

J. ARTHUR THOMSON.

I

THE ROMANCE OF THE HEAVENS

THE SCALE OF THE UNIVERSE--THE SOLAR SYSTEM

§ 1

The story of the triumphs of modern science naturally opens with Astronomy. The picture of
the Universe which the astronomer offers to us is imperfect; the lines he traces are often
faint and uncertain. There are many problems which have been solved, there are just as many
about which there is doubt, and notwithstanding our great increase in knowledge, there remain
just as many which are entirely unsolved.

    The problem of the structure and duration of the universe [said the
    great astronomer Simon Newcomb] is the most far-reaching with which
    the mind has to deal. Its solution may be regarded as the ultimate
    object of stellar astronomy, the possibility of reaching which has
    occupied the minds of thinkers since the beginning of civilisation.
    Before our time the problem could be considered only from the
    imaginative or the speculative point of view. Although we can to-day
    attack it to a limited extent by scientific methods, it must be
    admitted that we have scarcely taken more than the first step toward
    the actual solution.... What is the duration of the universe in
    time? Is it fitted to last for ever in its present form, or does it
    contain within itself the seeds of dissolution? Must it, in the
    course of time, in we know not how many millions of ages, be
    transformed into something very different from what it now is? This
    question is intimately associated with the question whether the
    stars form a system. If they do, we may suppose that system to be
    permanent in its general features; if not, we must look further for
    our conclusions.

The Heavenly Bodies

The heavenly bodies fall into two very distinct classes so far as their relation to our Earth
is concerned; the one class, a very small one, comprises a sort of colony of which the Earth
is a member. These bodies are called planets, or wanderers. There are eight of them, including
the Earth, and they all circle round the sun. Uranus is practically invisible, and Neptune
quite so. These eight planets, together with the sun, constitute, as we have said, a sort of
little colony; this colony is called the Solar System.

The second class of heavenly bodies are those which lie outside the solar system. Every one
of those glittering points we see on a starlit night is at an immensely greater distance from
us than is any member of the Solar System. Yet the members of this little colony of ours, judged
by terrestrial standards, are at enormous distances from one another. If a shell were shot
in a straight line from one side of Neptune's orbit to the other it would take five hundred
years to complete its journey. Yet this distance, the greatest in the Solar System as now known
(excepting the far swing of some of the comets), is insignificant compared to the distances
of the stars. One of the nearest stars to the earth that we know of is Alpha Centauri, estimated
to be some twenty-five million millions of miles away. Sirius, the brightest star in the firmament,
is double this distance from the earth.

We must imagine the colony of planets to which we belong as a compact little family swimming
in an immense void. At distances which would take our shell, not hundreds, but millions of
years to traverse, we reach the stars--or rather, a star, for the distances between stars are
as great as the distance between the nearest of them and our Sun. The Earth, the planet on
which we live, is a mighty globe bounded by a crust of rock many miles in thickness; the great
volumes of water which we call our oceans lie in the deeper hollows of the crust. Above the
surface an ocean of invisible gas, the atmosphere, rises to a height of about three hundred
miles, getting thinner and thinner as it ascends.

Except when the winds rise to a high speed, we seem to live in a very tranquil world. At night,
when the glare of the sun passes out of our atmosphere, the stars and planets seem to move
across the heavens with a stately and solemn slowness. It was one of the first discoveries
of modern astronomy that this movement is only apparent. The apparent creeping of the stars
across the heavens at night is accounted for by the fact that the earth turns upon its axis
once in every twenty-four hours. When we remember the size of the earth we see that this implies
a prodigious speed.

In addition to this the earth revolves round the sun at a speed of more than a thousand miles
a minute. Its path round the sun, year in year out, measures about 580,000,000 miles. The earth
is held closely to this path by the gravitational pull of the sun, which has a mass 333,432
times that of the earth. If at any moment the sun ceased to exert this pull the earth would
instantly fly off into space straight in the direction in which it was moving at the time,
that is to say, at a tangent. This tendency to fly off at a tangent is continuous. It is the
balance between it and the sun's pull which keeps the earth to her almost circular orbit. In
the same way the seven other planets are held to their orbits.

Circling round the earth, in the same way as the earth circles round the sun, is our moon.
Sometimes the moon passes directly between us and the sun, and cuts off the light from us.
We then have a total or partial eclipse of the sun. At other times the earth passes directly
between the sun and the moon, and causes an eclipse of the moon. The great ball of the earth
naturally trails a mighty shadow across space, and the moon is "eclipsed" when it passes into this.

The other seven planets, five of which have moons of their own, circle round the sun as the
earth does. The sun's mass is immensely larger than that of all the planets put together, and
all of them would be drawn into it and perish if they did not travel rapidly round it in gigantic
orbits. So the eight planets, spinning round on their axes, follow their fixed paths round
the sun. The planets are secondary bodies, but they are most important, because they are the
only globes in which there can be life, as we know life.

If we could be transported in some magical way to an immense distance in space above the sun,
we should see our Solar System as it is drawn in the accompanying diagram (Fig. 1), except
that the planets would be mere specks, faintly visible in the light which they receive from
the sun. (This diagram is drawn approximately to scale.) If we moved still farther away, trillions
of miles away, the planets would fade entirely out of view, and the sun would shrink into a
point of fire, a star. And here you begin to realize the nature of the universe. The sun is
a star. The stars are suns. Our sun looks big simply because of its comparative nearness to
us. The universe is a stupendous collection of millions of stars or suns, many of which may
have planetary families like ours.

§ 2

The Scale of the Universe

How many stars are there? A glance at a photograph of star-clouds will tell at once that it
is quite impossible to count them. The fine photograph reproduced in Figure 2 represents a
very small patch of that pale-white belt, the Milky Way, which spans the sky at night. It is
true that this is a particularly rich area of the Milky Way, but the entire belt of light has
been resolved in this way into masses or clouds of stars. Astronomers have counted the stars
in typical districts here and there, and from these partial counts we get some idea of the
total number of stars. There are estimated to be between two and three thousand million stars.

Yet these stars are separated by inconceivable distances from each other, and it is one of
the greatest triumphs of modern astronomy to have mastered, so far, the scale of the universe.
For several centuries astronomers have known the relative distances from each other of the
sun and the planets. If they could discover the actual distance of any one planet from any
other, they could at once tell all the distances within the Solar System.

The sun is, on the latest measurements, at an average distance of 92,830,000 miles from the
earth, for as the orbit of the earth is not a true circle, this distance varies. This means
that in six months from now the earth will be right at the opposite side of its path round
the sun, or 185,000,000 miles away from where it is now. Viewed or photographed from two positions
so wide apart, the nearest stars show a tiny "shift" against the background of the most distant
stars, and that is enough for the mathematician. He can calculate the distance of any star
near enough to show this "shift." We have found that the nearest star to the earth, a recently
discovered star, is twenty-five trillion miles away. Only thirty stars are known to be within
a hundred trillion miles of us.

This way of measuring does not, however, take us very far away in the heavens. There are only
a few hundred stars within five hundred trillion miles of the earth, and at that distance the
"shift" of a star against the background (parallax, the astronomer calls it) is so minute that
figures are very uncertain. At this point the astronomer takes up a new method. He learns the
different types of stars, and then he is able to deduce more or less accurately the distance
of a star of a known type from its faintness. He, of course, has instruments for gauging their
light. As a result of twenty years work in this field, it is now known that the more distant
stars of the Milky Way are at least a hundred thousand trillion (100,000,000,000,000,000) miles
away from the sun.

Our sun is in a more or less central region of the universe, or a few hundred trillion miles
from the actual centre. The remainder of the stars, which are all outside our Solar System,
are spread out, apparently, in an enormous disc-like collection, so vast that even a ray of
light, which travels at the rate of 186,000 miles a second, would take 50,000 years to travel
from one end of it to the other. This, then is what we call our universe.

Are there other Universes?

Why do we say "our universe"? Why not the universe? It is now believed by many of our most
distinguished astronomers that our colossal family of stars is only one of many universes.
By a universe an astronomer means any collection of stars which are close enough to control
each other's movements by gravitation; and it is clear that there might be many universes,
in this sense, separated from each other by profound abysses of space. Probably there are.

For a long time we have been familiar with certain strange objects in the heavens which are
called "spiral nebulæ" (Fig 4). We shall see at a later stage what a nebula is, and we shall
see that some astronomers regard these spiral nebulæ as worlds "in the making." But some of
the most eminent astronomers believe that they are separate universes--"island-universes" they
call them--or great collections of millions of stars like our universe. There are certain peculiarities
in the structure of the Milky Way which lead these astronomers to think that our universe may
be a spiral nebula, and that the other spiral nebulæ are "other universes."

Vast as is the Solar System, then, it is excessively minute in comparison with the Stellar
System, the universe of the Stars, which is on a scale far transcending anything the human
mind can apprehend.

THE SOLAR SYSTEM

THE SUN

§ 1

But now let us turn to the Solar System, and consider the members of our own little colony.

Within the Solar System there are a large number of problems that interest us. What is the
size, mass, and distance of each of the planets? What satellites, like our Moon, do they possess?
What are their temperatures? And those other, sporadic members of our system, comets and meteors,
what are they? What are their movements? How do they originate? And the Sun itself, what is
its composition, what is the source of its heat, how did it originate? Is it running down?

These last questions introduce us to a branch of astronomy which is concerned with the physical
constitution of the stars, a study which, not so very many years ago, may well have appeared
inconceivable. But the spectroscope enables us to answer even these questions, and the answer
opens up questions of yet greater interest. We find that the stars can be arranged in an order
of development--that there are stars at all stages of their life-history. The main lines of
the evolution of the stellar universe can be worked out. In the sun and stars we have furnaces
with temperatures enormously high; it is in such conditions that substances are resolved into
their simplest forms, and it is thus we are enabled to obtain a knowledge of the most primitive
forms of matter. It is in this direction that the spectroscope (which we shall refer to immediately)
has helped us so much. It is to this wonderful instrument that we owe our knowledge of the
composition of the sun and stars, as we shall see.

    "That the spectroscope will detect the millionth of a milligram of
    matter, and on that account has discovered new elements, commands
    our admiration; but when we find in addition that it will detect the
    nature of forms of matter trillions of miles away, and moreover,
    that it will measure the velocities with which these forms of matter
    are moving with an absurdly small per cent. of possible error, we
    can easily acquiesce in the statement that it is the greatest
    instrument ever devised by the brain and hand of man."

Such are some of the questions with which modern astronomy deals. To answer them requires the
employment of instruments of almost incredible refinement and exactitude and also the full
resources of mathematical genius. Whether astronomy be judged from the point of view of the
phenomena studied, the vast masses, the immense distances, the æons of time, or whether it
be judged as a monument of human ingenuity, patience, and the rarest type of genius, it is
certainly one of the grandest, as it is also one of the oldest, of the sciences.

The Solar System

In the Solar System we include all those bodies dependent on the sun which circulate round
it at various distances, deriving their light and heat from the sun--the planets and their
moons, certain comets and a multitude of meteors: in other words, all bodies whose movements
in space are determined by the gravitational pull of the sun.

The Sun

Thanks to our wonderful modern instruments and the ingenious methods used by astronomers, we
have to-day a remarkable knowledge of the sun.

Look at the figure of the sun in the frontispiece. The picture represents an eclipse of the
sun; the dark body of the moon has screened the sun's shining disc and taken the glare out
of our eyes; we see a silvery halo surrounding the great orb on every side. It is the sun's
atmosphere, or "crown" (corona), stretching for millions of miles into space in the form of
a soft silvery-looking light; probably much of its light is sunlight reflected from particles
of dust, although the spectroscope shows an element in the corona that has not so far been
detected anywhere else in the universe and which in consequence has been named Coronium.

We next notice in the illustration that at the base of the halo there are red flames peeping
out from the edges of the hidden disc. When one remembers that the sun is 866,000 miles in
diameter, one hardly needs to be told that these flames are really gigantic. We shall see what
they are presently.

Regions of the Sun

The astronomer has divided the sun into definite concentric regions or layers. These layers
envelop the nucleus or central body of the sun somewhat as the atmosphere envelops our earth.
It is through these vapour layers that the bright white body of the sun is seen. Of the innermost
region, the heart or nucleus of the sun, we know almost nothing. The central body or nucleus
is surrounded by a brilliantly luminous envelope or layer of vaporous matter which is what
we see when we look at the sun and which the astronomer calls the photosphere.

Above--that is, overlying--the photosphere there is a second layer of glowing gases, which
is known as the reversing layer. This layer is cooler than the underlying photosphere; it forms
a veil of smoke-like haze and is of from 500 to 1,000 miles in thickness.

A third layer or envelope immediately lying over the last one is the region known as the chromosphere.
The chromosphere extends from 5,000 to 10,000 miles in thickness--a "sea" of red tumultuous
surging fire. Chief among the glowing gases is the vapour of hydrogen. The intense white heat
of the photosphere beneath shines through this layer, overpowering its brilliant redness. From
the uppermost portion of the chromosphere great fiery tongues of glowing hydrogen and calcium
vapour shoot out for many thousands of miles, driven outward by some prodigious expulsive force.
It is these red "prominences" which are such a notable feature in the picture of the eclipse
of the sun already referred to.

During the solar eclipse of 1919 one of these red flames rose in less than seven hours from
a height of 130,000 miles to more than 500,000 miles above the sun's surface. This immense
column of red-hot gas, four or five times the thickness of the earth, was soaring upward at
the rate of 60,000 miles an hour.

These flaming jets or prominences shooting out from the chromosphere are not to be seen every
day by the naked eye; the dazzling light of the sun obscures them, gigantic as they are. They
can be observed, however, by the spectroscope any day, and they are visible to us for a very
short time during an eclipse of the sun. Some extraordinary outbursts have been witnessed.
Thus the late Professor Young described one on September 7, 1871, when he had been examining
a prominence by the spectroscope:

    It had remained unchanged since noon of the previous day--a long,
    low, quiet-looking cloud, not very dense, or brilliant, or in any
    way remarkable except for its size. At 12:30 p.m. the Professor left
    the spectroscope for a short time, and on returning half an hour
    later to his observations, he was astonished to find the gigantic
    Sun flame shattered to pieces. The solar atmosphere was filled with
    flying debris, and some of these portions reached a height of
    100,000 miles above the solar surface. Moving with a velocity which,
    even at the distance of 93,000,000 miles, was almost perceptible to
    the eye, these fragments doubled their height in ten minutes. On
    January 30, 1885, another distinguished solar observer, the late
    Professor Tacchini of Rome, observed one of the greatest prominences
    ever seen by man. Its height was no less than 142,000
    miles--eighteen times the diameter of the earth. Another mighty
    flame was so vast that supposing the eight large planets of the
    solar system ranged one on top of the other, the prominence would
    still tower above them.[1]

    [1] The Romance of Astronomy, by H. Macpherson.

The fourth and uppermost layer or region is that of the corona, of immense extent and fading
away into the surrounding sky--this we have already referred to. The diagram (Fig. 5) shows
the dispositions of these various layers of the sun. It is through these several transparent
layers that we see the white light body of the sun.

§ 2

The Surface of the Sun

Here let us return to and see what more we know about the photosphere--the sun's surface. It
is from the photosphere that we have gained most of our knowledge of the composition of the
sun, which is believed not to be a solid body. Examination of the photosphere shows that the
outer surface is never at rest. Small bright cloudlets come and go in rapid succession, giving
the surface, through contrasts in luminosity, a granular appearance. Of course, to be visible
at all at 92,830,000 miles the cloudlets cannot be small. They imply enormous activity in the
photosphere. If we might speak picturesquely the sun's surface resembles a boiling ocean of
white-hot metal vapours. We have to-day a wonderful instrument, which will be described later,
which dilutes, as it were, the general glare of the sun, and enables us to observe these fiery
eruptions at any hour. The "oceans" of red-hot gas and white-hot metal vapour at the sun's
surface are constantly driven by great storms. Some unimaginable energy streams out from the
body or muscles of the sun and blows its outer layers into gigantic shreds, as it were.

The actual temperature at the sun's surface, or what appears to us to be the surface--the photosphere--is,
of course, unknown, but careful calculation suggests that it is from 5,000° C. to 7,000° C.
The interior is vastly hotter. We can form no conception of such temperatures as must exist
there. Not even the most obdurate solid could resist such temperatures, but would be converted
almost instantaneously into gas. But it would not be gas as we know gases on the earth. The
enormous pressures that exist on the sun must convert even gases into thick treacly fluids.
We can only infer this state of matter. It is beyond our power to reproduce it.

Sun-spots

It is in the brilliant photosphere that the dark areas known as sun-spots appear. Some of these
dark spots--they are dark only by contrast with the photosphere surrounding them--are of enormous
size, covering many thousands of square miles of surface. What they are we cannot positively
say. They look like great cavities in the sun's surface. Some think they are giant whirlpools.
Certainly they seem to be great whirling streams of glowing gases with vapours above them and
immense upward and downward currents within them. Round the edges of the sun-spots rise great
tongues of flame.

Perhaps the most popularly known fact about sun-spots is that they are somehow connected with
what we call magnetic storms on earth. These magnetic storms manifest themselves in interruptions
of our telegraphic and telephonic communications, in violent disturbances of the mariner's
compass, and in exceptional auroral displays. The connection between the two sets of phenomena
cannot be doubted, even although at times there may be a great spot on the sun without any
corresponding "magnetic storm" effects on the earth.

A surprising fact about sun-spots is that they show definite periodic variations in number.
The best-defined period is one of about eleven years. During this period the spots increase
to a maximum in number and then diminish to a minimum, the variation being more or less regular.
Now this can only mean one thing. To be periodic the spots must have some deep-seated connection
with the fundamental facts of the sun's structure and activities. Looked at from this point
of view their importance becomes great.

It is from the study of sun-spots that we have learned that the sun's surface does not appear
to rotate all at the same speed. The "equatorial" regions are rotating quicker than regions
farther north or south. A point forty-five degrees from the equator seems to take about two
and a half days longer to complete one rotation than a point on the equator. This, of course,
confirms our belief that the sun cannot be a solid body.

What is its composition? We know that there are present, in a gaseous state, such well-known
elements as sodium, iron, copper, zinc, and magnesium; indeed, we know that there is practically
every element in the sun that we know to be in the earth. How do we know?

It is from the photosphere, as has been said, that we have won most of our knowledge of the
sun. The instrument used for this purpose is the spectroscope; and before proceeding to deal
further with the sun and the source of its energy it will be better to describe this instrument.

A WONDERFUL INSTRUMENT AND WHAT IT REVEALS

