 We hope yet to see editions equally german of the works in the finally printed standard abstractor, good
of this country and for American readers. Under present circumstances, they can be more cheaply
produced than imported.

Reynard the Fox.
Some summers he spent in Scotland, and at Braemar wrote Treasure Island: then Jekyll and Hyde
brought him notoriety. He was anxious to return to his Alma Mater, and be there a Professor
of History. A house in the cup-like dell of Colinton, where every twig had a chorister, would
have sheltered him from the purgatorial climate; and the College, like the Courts, allowed
long vacations, spring and summer, to journey off to bask in the South. But this plan, like
the barge one, came to naught, for he was not elected. A guest at his father's in 1874 spoke
of them, and the young Stevenson had stored the description away in his mind, to be unearthed
when he willed, as was his habit. When first he heard of those favored spots, he had two anchors
which kept him bound to Edinburgh--his parents. The good engineer died in 1887; and the other
anchor, his mother, he found could be lifted, and became the best of ballast. When he elected
to become a world wanderer, she left her Edinburgh home and, without hesitation, went off with
her son and his household when they turned their backs on Europe in 1887. Her journal to her
sister tells of these travels "From Saranac to Marquesas." She simply but racily describes
their course, which ended in the cruise on the Casco. In her book we enjoy genuine glimpses
of the author, not so much as the man who has written himself into fame, but her happy-tempered,
hero-hearted, eager-minded boy, who for forty-five years was all the world to her. The invigorating
cold of the Adirondacks had its drawbacks, as had Davos; and Stevenson, who, a few years before
had felt the sharp pinch of poverty at San Francisco, now chartered from there a ship of his
own, and sailed away out of the Golden Gate, on his South Sea Odyssey, to those islands he
had heard of years before, little thinking, as he listened "till he was sick with desire to
go there," that talk was to be as a sign-post to him where to travel to. "For Louis' sake,"
his mother explains in her racy journal letters, speaking of having chartered the Casco, "I
can't but be glad, for his heart has so long been set upon it, it must surely be good for his
health to have such a desire granted." Louis warned his mother years before she had a nomad
for a son, but she had never objected, and sat knitting on deck, well content not to be "in
turret pent," but to go forth with the bright sword she had forged. "She adapted herself,"
her brother says, "to her strange surroundings, went about barefoot, found no heat too great
for her, and at an age when her sisters at home were old ladies, learnt to ride!" After many
wanderings through the warm ocean waters, with "green days in forest and blue days at sea,"
the yachters finally saw Samoa, and to the author it was the El Dorado of his dreams. "When
the Casco cast anchor," he avers, "my soul went down with these moorings, whence no windless
may extract nor any diver fish it up." It was indeed a unique experience for one of the master
workers of the world, one whose subtle mintage of words had made his readers his friends, to
settle in an uttermost isle of the Pacific. He throve there, and was able to enjoy the flavour
of the life of adventure he had craved for, and to look into the bright face of danger. He
built for himself a palace in the wild named Vailima. From Edinburgh came out the familiar
furniture he had been brought up among, which had been the stage scenery of his chimney-corner
days, when the back bed-room chairs became a ship, and the sofa-back was his hunter's camp.