I by no means say that he was not a brute.  But whether brute or no, he was an honest man,
and had no remotest dream, either then, on that morning, or during the following days on which
such thoughts pressed more quickly on his mind--of breaking away from his pledged word.  At
breakfast on that morning he told all to Miss Le Smyrger, and that lady, with warm and gracious
intentions, confided to him her purpose regarding her property.  "I have always regarded Patience
as my heir," she said, "and shall do so still."

"Oh, indeed," said Captain Broughton.

"But it is a great, great pleasure to me to think that she will give back the little property
to my sister's child.  You will have your mother's, and thus it will all come together again."

"Ah!" said Captain Broughton.  He had his own ideas about property, and did not, even under
existing circumstances, like to hear that his aunt considered herself at liberty to leave the
acres away to one who was by blood quite a stranger to the family.

"Does Patience know of this?" he asked.

"Not a word," said Miss Le Smyrger.  And then nothing more was said upon the subject.

On that afternoon he went down and received the parson's benediction and congratulations with
a good grace.  Patience said very little on the occasion, and indeed was absent during the
greater part of the interview.  The two lovers then walked up to Oxney Combe, and there were
more benedictions and more congratulations.  "All went merry as a marriage bell," at any rate
as far as Patience was concerned.  Not a word had yet fallen from that dear mouth, not a look
had yet come over that handsome face, which tended in any way to mar her bliss.  Her first
day of acknowledged love was a day altogether happy, and when she prayed for him as she knelt
beside her bed there was no feeling in her mind that any fear need disturb her joy.

I will pass over the next three or four days very quickly, merely saying that Patience did
not find them so pleasant as that first day after her engagement.  There was something in her
lover's manner-- something which at first she could not define--which by degrees seemed to
grate against her feelings.

He was sufficiently affectionate, that being a matter on which she did not require much demonstration;
but joined to his affection there seemed to be--; she hardly liked to suggest to herself a
harsh word, but could it be possible that he was beginning to think that she was not good enough
for him?  And then she asked herself the question--was she good enough for him?  If there were
doubt about that, the match should be broken off, though she tore her own heart out in the
struggle.  The truth, however, was this--that he had begun that teaching which he had already
found to be so necessary.  Now, had any one essayed to teach Patience German or mathematics,
with that young lady's free consent, I believe that she would have been found a meek scholar.
But it was not probable that she would be meek when she found a self-appointed tutor teaching
her manners and conduct without her consent. 

John Tradeskin rewards our eyes by boxing up his writing.
Ashmole, in his diary published by Charles Burman in 1717, has 3 important entries which I
have written exactly as noted.
"December"
"12, 1659"
Mr. John Tredescant died on April 22, 1662.
On May 30, 1662, this was entered: this easter, I sent a bill to Mrs. Tredescant for the writings
that I had sold to her husband.
Although Ashmole's suit was well known amongst the locals, the whole matter didn't do too much
for his image.
The loss of her husband's writings clearly upset Mrs. Tadescant. In the diary on April 4, 1678,
Ashmole writes,
My wife told me that Mrs. Tradescant was found dead and that she had drowned in the pond located
on her property.
It appears that she had drowned the day before her body was found.
Hesther Tradescant was known because she had built the Tradescant monument on the grounds
of Lambeth church.

She was buried in the vault where her husband and their young son John had been buried.
A monument to the memory of the Tradescants was built in 1162. There
are sculptures on the sdes of the monument. On the north side are
crocodiles, shells, and pyramids. On the south there are broken columns
and Greecian ruins. On the east are the Tradescant's arms: a bent
three fleurs-de-lys, and and impaled lion. On the west side of the
monument is a hydra, trees, a skull, and a tablet made of black marble.
The monument was repaired in 1773 and according to Sir John Hawkins,
the following lines were insterted on he monument: formerly intended
for an epitaph, inserted thereon. 
Other authorities disagree with
him and say that the lines were not added, but restored.  "I fear she is obstinate," he said to himself; and then he had half accused
her of being sullen also.  "If that be her temper, what a life of misery I have before me!"

"Have you fixed a day yet?" his aunt asked him as they came near to her house.

"No, not yet; I don't know whether it will suit me to fix it before I leave."

"Why, it was but the other day you were in such a hurry."

"Ah--yes--I have thought more about it since then."

"I should have imagined that this would depend on what Patty thinks," said Miss Le Smyrger,
standing up for the privileges of her sex.  "It is presumed that the gentleman is always ready
as soon as the lady will consent."

"Yes, in ordinary cases it is so; but when a girl is taken out of her own sphere--"

"Her own sphere!  Let me caution you, Master John, not to talk to Patty about her own sphere."

"Aunt Penelope, as Patience is to be my wife and not yours, I must claim permission to speak
to her on such subjects as may seem suitable to me."  And then they parted--not in the best
humour with each other.

On the following day Captain Broughton and Miss Woolsworthy did not meet till the evening.
She had said, before those few ill-omened words had passed her lover's lips, that she would
probably be at Miss Le Smyrger's house on the following morning.  Those ill-omened words did
pass her lover's lips, and then she remained at home.  This did not come from sullenness, nor
even from anger, but from a conviction that it would be well that she should think much before
she met him again. Nor was he anxious to hurry a meeting.  His thought--his base thought--
was this; that she would be sure to come up to the Combe after him; but she did not come, and
therefore in the evening he went down to her, and asked her to walk with him.

They went away by the path that led to Helpholme, and little was said between them till they
had walked some mile together.

Patience, as she went along the path, remembered almost to the letter the sweet words which
had greeted her ears as she came down that way with him on the night of his arrival; but he
remembered nothing of that sweetness then.  Had he not made an ass of himself during these
last six months?  That was the thought which very much had possession of his mind.

"Patience," he said at last, having hitherto spoken only an indifferent word now and again
since they had left the parsonage, "Patience, 1 hope you realise the importance of the step
which you and I are about to take?"

"Of course I do," she answered.  "What an odd question that is for you to ask!"

"Because," said he, "sometimes I almost doubt it.  It seems to me as though you thought you
could remove yourself from here to your new home with no more trouble than when you go from
home up to the Combe."

"Is that meant for a reproach, John?"

"No, not for a reproach, but for advice.  Certainly not for a reproach."

"I am glad of that."

