Manfred's heart was capable of being touched.  He forgot his anger in his astonishment; yet
his pride forbad his owning himself affected.  He even doubted whether this discovery was not
a contrivance of the Friar to save the youth.

"What may this mean?" said he.  "How can he be thy son?  Is it consistent with thy profession
or reputed sanctity to avow a peasant's offspring for the fruit of thy irregular amours!"

"Oh, God!" said the holy man, "dost thou question his being mine? Could I feel the anguish
I do if I were not his father?  Spare him! good Prince! spare him! and revile me as thou pleasest."

"Spare him! spare him!" cried the attendants; "for this good man's sake!"

"Peace!" said Manfred, sternly.  "I must know more ere I am disposed to pardon.  A Saint's
bastard may be no saint himself."

"Injurious Lord!" said Theodore, "add not insult to cruelty.  If I am this venerable man's
son, though no Prince, as thou art, know the blood that flows in my veins--"

"Yes," said the Friar, interrupting him, "his blood is noble; nor is he that abject thing,
my Lord, you speak him.  He is my lawful son, and Sicily can boast of few houses more ancient
than that of Falconara.  But alas! my Lord, what is blood! what is nobility!  We are all reptiles,
miserable, sinful creatures.  It is piety alone that can distinguish us from the dust whence
we sprung, and whither we must return."

"Truce to your sermon," said Manfred; "you forget you are no longer Friar Jerome, but the Count
of Falconara.  Let me know your history; you will have time to moralise hereafter, if you should
not happen to obtain the grace of that sturdy criminal there."

"Mother of God!" said the Friar, "is it possible my Lord can refuse a father the life of his
only, his long-lost, child!  Trample me, my Lord, scorn, afflict me, accept my life for his,
but spare my son!"

"Thou canst feel, then," said Manfred, "what it is to lose an only son!  A little hour ago
thou didst preach up resignation to me:  MY house, if fate so pleased, must perish--but the
Count of Falconara- -"

"Alas! my Lord," said Jerome, "I confess I have offended; but aggravate not an old man's sufferings!
I boast not of my family, nor think of such vanities--it is nature, that pleads for this boy;
it is the memory of the dear woman that bore him.  Is she, Theodore, is she dead?"

"Her soul has long been with the blessed," said Theodore.

"Oh! how?" cried Jerome, "tell me--no--she is happy!  Thou art all my care now!--Most dread
Lord! will you--will you grant me my poor boy's life?"

"Return to thy convent," answered Manfred; "conduct the Princess hither; obey me in what else
thou knowest; and I promise thee the life of thy son."

"Oh! my Lord," said Jerome, "is my honesty the price I must pay for this dear youth's safety?"

"For me!" cried Theodore.  "Let me die a thousand deaths, rather than stain thy conscience.
What is it the tyrant would exact of thee?  Is the Princess still safe from his power?  Protect
her, thou venerable old man; and let all the weight of his wrath fall on me."

Jerome endeavoured to check the impetuosity of the youth; and ere Manfred could reply, the
trampling of horses was heard, and a brazen trumpet, which hung without the gate of the castle,
was suddenly sounded.  At the same instant the sable plumes on the enchanted helmet, which
still remained at the other end of the court, were tempestuously agitated, and nodded thrice,
as if bowed by some invisible wearer.

CHAPTER III.

Manfred's heart misgave him when he beheld the plumage on the miraculous casque shaken in concert
with the sounding of the brazen trumpet.

"Father!" said he to Jerome, whom he now ceased to treat as Count of Falconara, "what mean
these portents?  If I have offended--" the plumes were shaken with greater violence than before.

"Unhappy Prince that I am," cried Manfred.  "Holy Father! will you not assist me with your
prayers?"

"My Lord," replied Jerome, "heaven is no doubt displeased with your mockery of its servants.
Submit yourself to the church; and cease to persecute her ministers.  Dismiss this innocent
youth; and learn to respect the holy character I wear.  Heaven will not be trifled with:  you
see--" the trumpet sounded again.

"I acknowledge I have been too hasty," said Manfred.  "Father, do you go to the wicket, and
demand who is at the gate."

"Do you grant me the life of Theodore?" replied the Friar.

"I do," said Manfred; "but inquire who is without!"

Jerome, falling on the neck of his son, discharged a flood of tears, that spoke the fulness
of his soul.

"You promised to go to the gate," said Manfred.

"I thought," replied the Friar, "your Highness would excuse my thanking you first in this tribute
of my heart."

"Go, dearest Sir," said Theodore; "obey the Prince.  I do not deserve that you should delay
his satisfaction for me."

Jerome, inquiring who was without, was answered, "A Herald."

"From whom?" said he.

"From the Knight of the Gigantic Sabre," said the Herald; "and I must speak with the usurper
of Otranto."

Jerome returned to the Prince, and did not fail to repeat the message in the very words it
had been uttered.  The first sounds struck Manfred with terror; but when he heard himself styled
usurper, his rage rekindled, and all his courage revived.

"Usurper!--insolent villain!" cried he; "who dares to question my title?  Retire, Father; this
is no business for Monks:  I will meet this presumptuous man myself.  Go to your convent and
prepare the Princess's return.  Your son shall be a hostage for your fidelity: his life depends
on your obedience."

"Good heaven! my Lord," cried Jerome, "your Highness did but this instant freely pardon my
child--have you so soon forgot the interposition of heaven?"

"Heaven," replied Manfred, "does not send Heralds to question the title of a lawful Prince.
I doubt whether it even notifies its will through Friars--but that is your affair, not mine.
At present you know my pleasure; and it is not a saucy Herald that shall save your son, if
you do not return with the Princess."

It was in vain for the holy man to reply.  Manfred commanded him to be conducted to the postern-gate,
and shut out from the castle. And he ordered some of his attendants to carry Theodore to the
top of the black tower, and guard him strictly; scarce permitting the father and son to exchange
a hasty embrace at parting.  He then withdrew to the hall, and seating himself in princely
state, ordered the Herald to be admitted to his presence.

"Well! thou insolent!" said the Prince, "what wouldst thou with me?"

"I come," replied he, "to thee, Manfred, usurper of the principality of Otranto, from the renowned
and invincible Knight, the Knight of the Gigantic Sabre:  in the name of his Lord, Frederic,
Marquis of Vicenza, he demands the Lady Isabella, daughter of that Prince, whom thou hast basely
and traitorously got into thy power, by bribing her false guardians during his absence; and
he requires thee to resign the principality of Otranto, which thou hast usurped from the said
Lord Frederic, the nearest of blood to the last rightful Lord, Alfonso the Good.  If thou dost
not instantly comply with these just demands, he defies thee to single combat to the last extremity."
And so saying the Herald cast down his warder.

"And where is this braggart who sends thee?" said Manfred.

"At the distance of a league," said the Herald:  "he comes to make good his Lord's claim against
thee, as he is a true knight, and thou an usurper and ravisher."

