In 1881 another strange feature was discovered by Schiaparelli, who found that about twenty
canals which had previously been seen single were now distinctly double, that is, that they
consisted of two parallel lines, equally distinct and either very close together or a considerable
distance apart. This curious appearance was at first thought to be due to some instrumental
defect or optical illusion; but as it was soon confirmed by other observers with the best instruments
and in widely different localities it became in time accepted as a real phenomenon of the planet's
surface.

Round Spots discovered in 1892.

At the favourable opposition of 1892, Mr. W. H. Pickering noticed that besides the 'seas' of
various sizes there were numerous very small black spots apparently quite circular and occurring
at every intersection or starting-point of the 'canals.' Many of these had been seen by Schiaparelli
as larger and ill-defined dark patches, and were termed seas or lakes; but Mr. Pickering's
observatory was at Arequipa in Peru, about 8000 feet above the sea, and with such perfect atmospheric
conditions as were, in his opinion, equal to a doubling of telescopic aperture. They were soon
detected by other observers, especially by Mr. Lowell in 1894, who thus wrote of them:

"Scattered over the orange-ochre groundwork of the continental regions of the planet, are any
number of dark round spots. Chairman: "i think several canals. Extremity may seem Rule." Mister.
GEDGE:
"i have read no Rule, Man. Them seem the is what it state one"

Chairman:
"Order! Instance!" and It may be subsided.

Scarcely be State is none in none on
Funds, be joined up crossfire. What is more, there is apparently none that
does not lie at the junction of several canals. Reversely, all the junctions appear to be provided
with spots. Plotted upon a globe they and their connecting canals make a most curious network
over all the orange-ochre equatorial parts of the planet, a mass of lines and knots, the one
marking being as omnipresent as the other."

Changes of Colour recognised.

During the oppositions of 1892 and 1894 it was fully recognised that a regular course of change
occurred dependent upon the succession of the seasons, as had been first suggested by Schiaparelli.
As the polar snows melt the adjacent seas appear to overflow and spread out as far as the tropics,
and are often seen to assume a distinctly green colour. These remarkable changes and the extraordinary
phenomena of perfect straight lines crossing each other over a large portion of the planet's
surface, with the circular spots at their intersections, had such an appearance of artificiality
that the idea that they were really 'canals' made by intelligent beings for purposes of irrigation,
was first hinted at, and then adopted as the only intelligible explanation, by Mr. Lowell and
a few other persons. This at once seized upon the public imagination and was spread by the
newspapers and magazines over the whole civilised world.

Existence of Seas doubted.

At this time (1894) it began to be doubted whether there were any seas at all on Mars. Professor
Pickering thought they were far more limited in size than had been supposed, and even might
not exist as true seas. Professor Barnard, with the Lick thirty-six inch telescope, discerned
an astonishing wealth of detail on the surface of Mars, so intricate, minute, and abundant,
that it baffled all attempts to delineate it; and these peculiarities were seen upon the supposed
seas as well as on the land-surfaces. In fact, under the best conditions these 'seas' lost
all trace of uniformity, their appearance being that of a mountainous country, broken by ridges,
rifts, and canyons, seen from a great elevation. As we shall see later on these doubts soon
became certainties, and it is now almost universally admitted that Mars possesses no permanent
bodies of water.

CHAPTER II.

