 It was the general conflict and enemies constantly redoubled their attacks, fighting
with desperate obstinacy, confident in the crowd, opposed to that our constant resistance everywhere
when D. Andres Calisaya with a piece of horse made a turn at the top of the village, passing
through Guansapata Castle fell into Orcopata through the multitude of enemies who occupied this post,
and at the expense of bizarre and determined action, not only managed to surprise, but leaving much admired
courage, the besieged had a short interval to take some breath. But very soon became again,
and with greater commitment, to hostilities prevented from useful to break down the walls the
enclosure and sought an entry less difficult and dangerous, as indeed did so, penetrating to the
back of the Inn of Santa Rosa, where they set fire to houses on that side, that already is considered
possession. But a short time enjoyed the privilege, because they were evicted from that post
by the adjutant, with the troops under his command, who, after their rejection, promptly interrupted
the progress of the flames.

The commander of artillery, D. Francisco Vicenteli, always attentive to the passages that were considered
most at risk, addressed them from the main square a high heat, and so well, which punished and
contained to the rebels, until little by little they were giving up and retiring in the vicinity
of the population, and putting it on the side of the neighboring mountains. D. Antonio Urbina was
also a sustained fire from the Castle Guansapata, the son of very useful, particularly to prevent
the multitude of Indians, who tried to force Barreda, who commanded the trenches and Monastery,
they succeeded. The Santiago, in charge of D. Javier Martin Esquire, directed their fire more
frequently to the campaign, where he fought cavalry contrary to ours, held again and a corps of slingers.
From the fort located at the four corners of the chief's house D. Anselmo Bustinza, they fired
a gun at his own expense cast, with which it defended part of the campaign was found on that
side, and not just contained to the besiegers, but also freed the fire to the whole neighborhood
had suffered the misfortune of Tambo de Santa Rosa, for being distant from the defense. Well
that was the only win they got that day: short in reality, and that in no way corresponded to
the loss they had suffered in so many and as repeated assaults, in which they had established
an effort and consistency that could not never expected or believed in a nation that had previously
been considered a character fickle and weak.
 The author was very much struck by the answer made to him by
the last-mentioned lady, when he paid her some compliment on the readiness which she showed
in equipping her son with the means of meeting danger, when she might have left him a fair
excuse for remaining absent. On the opposite side and Hill had been stationed Quicksilver
from morning a party of enemies, who were kept in constant motion, gesturing to undertake the Indians
Mañazo entire period of the attack others. But I would rather see him dead on that hearth, than hear that he had been a
horse's length behind his companions in the defence of his king and country." Reseguin, with a handful of brave, restore order, a warning to the Indians,
and makes it impossible to re-launch against the public authority. His up to Cuzco was a continued
series of battles and triumphs.