The number and capacity of the flouring mills have increased considerably since 1853, so that
it is probable that there are at present more than three hundred of them at work in the State,
and the number of hands employed by them cannot be much less than twelve hundred. It is probable
that they are now capable of manufacturing 1,25,000 barrels of flour annually, and this quantity
would require 5,625,000 bushels of wheat. Add to this the large quantity of seed required for
sowing an increased breadth of land, and the portion of the crop kept for domestic use, and
the result will be sufficient to explain the reason why so little wheat has been exported from
Michigan this season. There are about 50,000 families in this State who depend on agriculture
for subsistence; all of these had suffered more or less inconvenience from failure of the wheat
crop, and the high price of flour for the last few years, and it is no wonder that they should
endeavor to secure a full supply of wheat or flour of the produce of the late harvest, and
a very large portion of the crop was disposed of in this way.

Since the Reciprocity Treaty came into operation, there has been considerable exportation of
flour from Detroit to Canada on account of the repeated failures of the wheat crop in that
country, and thus a new market for Michigan produce has been opened near home.

Some of these sources of demand are trifling when standing alone, but the aggregate makes a
very large amount. It is considered that about half the produce of the wheat crop still remains
in the hands of the farmers and may be expected to reach the market gradually.

Michigan wants woolen and cotton, and various other factories to provide employment for the
over-crowded population of her cities and villages, and to open a market for all her produce.
The farmers of Great Britain and Ireland could not pay the high rents and taxes which are imposed
on them, were it not for their proximity to the great manufacturing cities of England. The
cotton factories of Manchester, the woolen factories of Leeds and Huddersfield, the hardware
works of Birmingham and Sheffield, and the potteries of Staffordshire, employ hundreds of thousands
of men, women, and children, who consume the fruits of the soil, and create a steady demand
for the farmer's stock and grain. All these manufactures were fostered by protective laws until
they had attained a magnitude and importance which enabled them to protect themselves by the
wealth of their proprietors and the excellence of their products. Large cities always afford
a market for farm produce, and on this account exert a very beneficial influence on agriculture.
The population of London is about two and a half millions, and they are possessed of so much
wealth, and are so fastidious in their requirements, that almost every part of the world contributes
to supply them with the necessaries or luxuries of life. The rapid growth of the cities of
Michigan afford a home market for the fruits of the soil. A great deal of land in the old settlements
of this State has been exhausted by a too frequent repetition of the wheat crop, and is now
being employed as pasture for sheep and cattle. After remaining in grass for a few years, this
land will be in excellent condition for producing wheat, especially when fertilized with that
plentiful supply of barn-yard dung which the raising of stock always produces.

There are some varieties of wheat which are much better suited to the climate and soil of Michigan
than others, as they are in a great measure able to withstand the combined attacks of wheat
insects and the various diseases to which the plant is liable. These are now fast supplanting
the worn out grain, and as every malady has its cure or preventive, it is probable that the
introduction of the best kind of seeds, the alternation between grass and tillage, and the
supply of rich manure which the raising of stock creates will have a very great tendency to
improve the wheat crop of this State.

It is remarkable fact although the wheat crop has rather declined in the majority of States,
the corn crop has steadily increased in all of them. Thus in 1840, the entire corn crop of
the United States amounted to 400,000,000 of bushels; in 1850 it was nearly 600,000,000, of
bushels. The crop of 1855 was between 7 and 800,000,000 and that of 1858 was fully 800,000,000
of bushels. Taking into consideration the large breath of land planted in 1859 and the damage
by frost, we might with safety set down the crop as amounting to 800,000,000 bushels.

Last year our importations from Indiana were large, but since the new crop came in, that State
has been shipping largely toward the Ohio river, and we get comparatively little. The immense
distilleries of Cincinnati consume a very large quantity of corn annually, and Indiana is beginning
to find a good market in that quarter. The demand for Michigan corn is always active on account
of its excellent milling qualities, and on this account it generally sells from wagons as high,
or a shade higher than the outside figure for Western corn from store. The corn crop of Illinois
has been much injured by the frosts of June and July, and on this account the receipts in Chicago
up to this date have been much lighter than usual. The European potato crop has been greatly
damaged by rot, and it is probable that a large export of corn will take place from this country
in order to supply a deficiency occasioned by this failure. It is said that several New York
capitalists have gone west and purchased corn and provisions, storing them up until next spring,
anticipating at that time a considerable advance in price. The generality of farmers have sorted
their corn carefully this year and used up the unripe and inferior part for feeding hogs and
cattle: there is a large quantity of very good corn in the country, which will no doubt command
a good price in the spring.

Indian corn is one of the staple productions of Michigan, and can be raised with success in
any suitable soil in the lower peninsula. According to the statistics of 1850 this State produced
nearly 6,000,000 of bushels that year. It is probable that the census of the present year will
show a vast increase in the amount. In 1850 the value of this crop in all the States amounted
to nearly $300,000,000, being about equal to the united values of the wheat, hay, and cotton
crops, and it has perhaps doubled since that date. In fact the value of the corn crop to Michigan
and all the other States can not be estimated, as it is much used for the food of man and all
the domestic animals, and to it the American farmer is indebted for much of his prosperity,
for without it he would not be able to bring his cattle and hogs into the market at the right
time and in proper condition.

Heretofore the amount of pork packed has always been insufficient to meet the demand, and the
deficiency has been supplied by importations from other cities, chiefly from Cincinnati. This
season not only has there been a considerable increase in the number packed, but the market
opens a great deal duller than last year, when the Canada trade and the building of the Detroit
and Port Huron link of the Grand Trunk Railway induced a fair demand.

Cincinnati is the greatest provision market on the continent or in the world. At that place
speculation has been quite rife for the past two or three years, operators obtaining a controlling
interest in the stock for the purpose of putting up prices. Last year the plan did not work
well, owing to various causes, one of which was the small number of works in progress, such
as railroads, etc., the supply of the laborers upon such works, being the life of the provision
trade. Heavy losses were sustained, but it is said that the sufferers were a different class
from that regularly engaged in the trade. This season the speculative fever has again prevailed.
The issue has yet to be revealed.

Last year nearly 1,000 head of cattle were slaughtered here, all of which were forwarded to
Lake Superior as soon as packed. The price of mess beef has ranged from $8.50 to $12.00. About
the first of July prices reached their highest point. During the fall the range has been from
$8.50 to $10.00.

When the marshy lands, skirting our watercourses in St. Clair, Macomb, Wayne, and Monroe counties,
shall have been drained, (which will, no doubt, be consummated at no distant day,) a large
tract will be rendered available for grazing, which will prove equal for that purpose to any
in the Union. Butter and cheese will then become a leading article in our commerce.

Potatoes constitute another of our staple products, and, in seasons of scarcity elsewhere,
large purchases are made for shipment, but being generally based on present demand, they can
hardly be called speculative. The crop of 1857 was rather meagre, and last spring and summer
prices ruled high, going up to $1.20 for a short time in June. Last year we had an abundant
crop, since which, under a limited export demand, prices have ruled low. The receipts at this
point, from all sources, did not vary greatly from 175,000 bushels, of which 80,500 bushels
were exported, chiefly to Ohio and the upper country.

It is claimed, that southern Michigan produces more fine fruit than any other locality of the
same extent in the United States, if not on the globe. At the same time almost every quarter
of the State is constantly improving both in quality and quantity. This fact is creditable
to the sagacity of our agriculturists, for probably in nothing else can an equal amount of
profit be realized with the same outlay.

Our market is not an important one for live stock, much of the greater share of the receipts
by rail being through freight. Our wholesale market is mainly governed by that at the East,
buyers for shipment are always on the look-out, and whenever anything can be purchased that
affords even a moderate margin, it is promptly taken. Extra cattle are always sought for by
our butchers, and command full rates. A spirit of emulation on the subject of fine stock is
pervading the minds of our farmers, and, as a consequence, its quality is rapidly improving.
At the last State Fair, the display of cattle was such as to elicit the admiration of good
judges from abroad. There are so many interests claiming the attention of our agriculturists,
that the idea of becoming famous as to quantity, is perhaps precluded; if so, they may well
rest content in the attainment of high rank in point of quality.

The raising of fine sheep is constantly attracting more and more attention, and from the progress
already made by our State, she bids fair at no distant day to take a position in advance of
all her sister States.

The year 1859 opened with rather flattering prospects for wool-growers. The last year's stock
was nearly exhausted before the new clip came into the market. Prices of woolen fabrics were
advancing, and bid fair to rule high. On the eve of the wool season prices declined in the
Eastern markets, although there was no particular reason for this unfavorable turn. It was
considered at the time, that the fall in prices was occasioned by a regular combination among
buyers to break down the market. The news of the passage of the Ticino by the Austrians, and
the actual commencement of hostilities in Italy, arrived in this country before the wool was
brought into the market, and this circumstance was seized on as a pretext for lowering the
price of the new clip. Buyers were very industrious in circulating reports that a general European
war was commencing, and, as it was not known how affairs would terminate, it would be unsafe
for American buyers to make investments in the wool trade, except at prices that would leave
a large margin for profit. It was fortunate that farmers did not take the same view of transatlantic
complications, for they refused to sell except at remunerating prices, a decision which caused
some of the Eastern buyers to retire from the market in disgust. Almost the entire press of
Michigan supported the views of the farmers on this occasion, and declared that they could
see no reason why the war in Italy should affect the prices of wool in America, especially
as all the domestic clip, and a very large quantity of foreign wool would be manufactured in
this country. Michigan produces excellent wool. There are numerous flocks of French, Spanish,
and Saxon Merinos in this State, which have been selected or bred with the greatest care, and
the wool produced by them cannot be surpassed in any of the Western States. There are also
flocks of coarse-wooled sheep which produce heavy fleeces, and when fattened for the butcher
make excellent mutton. In 1840 the wool clip of this State was about 150,000 lbs., in 1850
something over 2,000,000 lbs., and 1859 it amounted to nearly 4,000,000 lbs. It will be seen
by these figures that it has nearly doubled during the last nine years. There are but few woolen
manufactories in Michigan, and the most of the wool clip of this State is purchased by Eastern
manufacturers. A considerable portion of it goes to Boston and other parts of Massachusetts.
We want a large woolen factory in Detroit, where everything that is necessary for its operation
can be easily procured. We want more manufactories of every kind in Michigan.

Our city is largely interested in the shipping business, and its trade gives employment to
a larger number of side-wheel steamboat lines than any other three cities on the entire chain
of lakes. During the last season, the following regular lines of steamers were in successful
operation:

  Detroit and Cleveland.
  Detroit and Toledo.
  Detroit and Sandusky.
  Detroit and Saginaw.
  Detroit and New Baltimore.
  Detroit and Maiden.
  Detroit, G. Bay and Buffalo.
  Detroit and Lake Superior.
  Detroit and Port Huron.
  Detroit and Chatham.
  Detroit and Wallaceburg.
  Detroit and Gibraltar.

Two of the above routes sustain opposition lines, and to the list might be added the line of
lake steamers to Buffalo, and the line to Goderich, which though not run last year, will probably
be in successful operation the coming season, making in all sixteen lines. It is significant
that the late financial revulsion, which fell with such crushing weight upon the shipping interest
all over the country did not occasion the withdrawal of any of our steamboat lines, save one.
As a still more striking fact, we may state that until last season none of the cities located
in the vast region between the foot of Lake Michigan and the foot of Lake Erie, has for many
years past supported a single line of steamers that did not make Detroit a terminus. Last year
a line was put in successful operation between Buffalo and Cleveland, and another between the
latter place and Toledo, but it ought to be added that both of these were established by Detroit
enterprise.

In addition to the line above enumerated, we have daily lines of propellers to Ogdensburg,
Buffalo, Dunkirk and to the Upper Lakes, which do an immense freighting business.

We are indebted to Captain J. H. Hall, the public-spirited proprietor of the Detroit shipping-office
for following statement of the number of vessels that passed Detroit in 1859:

Number of Vessels passing Detroit, 1859.

    No.               Times.

  Steamers passed up,    194
  Propellers,     "      492
  Barks,          "      273
  Brigs,          "      295
  Schooners,      "    1,811
                       -----
  Total number up,     3,065

    No.               Times.
  Steamers passed down,  195
  Propellers,       "    503
  Barks,            "    284
  Brigs,            "    314
  Schooners,        "  1,825
                       -----
  Total number down,   3,121

Greatest number passed up in one day, eighty-five; greatest number down, seventy-three.

The number of entries and clearances reported at the Custom House during the year is as follows:

       Arrived.   Cl'd.
  Jan.    48       70
  Feb.    49       71
  March  161      288
  April  334      375
  May    438      586
  June   458      568
  July   403      597
  Aug.   461      519
  Sept.  316      481
  Oct.   288      319
  Nov.   294      316
  Dec.    45       71

During the past year the amount of total losses has been light, not greater, probably, than
the number of vessels built, so that although the classification is slightly changed, there
is no material change so far as concerns the aggregate tonnage. Detroit owns, therefore, nearly
one-sixth of the entire tonnage of the lakes.

As a matter of some interest we present a comparative statement showing the tonnage, steam,
and total, of a number of the more important maritime places in the country, taken from the
report of the Register of the Treasury on Commerce and Navigation:

              Steam tonnage.  Total tonnage.
  New York         118,638     1,432,705
  New Orleans       70,072       210,411
  Philadelphia      22,892       219,851
  Baltimore         18,821       194,488
  Pittsburg         42,474        56,824
  Cincinnati        23,136        26,541
  Chicago            8,151        67,001
  St. Louis         55,515        61,266
  Boston             9,452       448,896
  Buffalo           42,640        73,478
  Detroit           35,266        62,485
  Charleston, S. C.  8,230        60,196

The following exhibits the number and tonnage of vessels owned in this district--nearly all
of them in this city--on the 31st of December, 1859:

                      Number  Tons.  95ths
  Steamers               73  29,175   02
  Propellers             32   6,090   81
  Barks                   4   1,337   08
  Brigs                   7   1,877   75
  Schooners             131  19,671   56
  Scows and all others  136   4,322   68
                        ---  ------   --
  Total                 383  62,485   05
  In 1857               301  52,991   50
                        ---  ------   --
  Increase in two years  82   9,493   50

The following was the aggregate tonnage of the lakes in December 1858:

  AMERICAN.
    69 Side-wheel steamers register tons   44,562
   110 Propellers                do.       45,562
    70 Tugs (propellers)         do.        6,880
    46 Barks                     do.       18,788
    79 Brigs                     do.       22,558
   711 Schooners                 do.      166,725
   109 Scows                     do.       11,848
  ----                                    -------
  1194  Total                             316,923

  CANADIAN.
    67 Side-wheel steamers, register tons  25,966
    16 Propellers                do.        4,631
     4 Tugs (propellers)         do.          388
    19 Barks                     do.        5,697
    16 Brigs                     do.        2,988
   186 Schooners                 do.       19,311
    13 Scows                     do.          609
  ----                                    -------
   321  Total                              59,580

The Michigan Central was the first railroad built in the State, and since its completion has
been known as one of the best managed in the West. Its beneficial effects to the region of
country through which it passes, is incalculable. On its line, have sprung up a number of beautiful
towns and villages as if by magic, while many of those that had an existence prior to its construction
have grown into flourishing cities. Ypsilanti, Ann Arbor, Jackson, Marshall, Battle Creek,
Albion, Kalamazoo, Niles, and others that might properly be included, all located upon this
road, are beautiful places, noted for their thrift and enterprise as well as for their rapid
advances in all that pertains to well-regulated cities. Their commerce is rapidly increasing
and the country along the entire route will vie with that traversed by the great thoroughfares
of any of the older States along the seaboard.

The Central was commenced and partially built by the State, but in 1844, passed into the possession
of the company now owning it, who completed it to Chicago. A telegraph line has been in use
for some years past along the entire line of the road, with an office at each station, by which
means the exact position of each train may be at all times known at each and every point. To
this admirable system may be attributed in a very great degree the extraordinary exemption
of the road from serious accidents, while its advantages are very great in every point of view
respecting the general management. The eastern terminus of the road being at Detroit, it has
the full advantages of the numerous connections at this point, the Great Western and Grand
Trunk Railways, the important steamboat route from Cleveland, the lines of Detroit and Buffalo
propellers with their immense freight traffic, as well as the numerous other steamboat routes
of which our city is the nucleus. At Chicago it has the advantages of connection with all the
roads radiating from that flourishing city. Freight is now taken from Chicago to Portland without
breaking bulk but once. An important "feeder" is the Joliet Cut-off, by means of which it has
a direct connection with St. Louis, via the Chicago, Alton, and St. Louis Railroad. An important
arrangement was consummated last summer with the latter road, for the direct transmission of
freight between this city and St. Louis. Fifty cars have been diverted to this route, under
the name of the "Detroit and St. Louis Through Freight Line." The time between the two cities
is thirty-eight hours. The advantages of this line to shippers are very considerable, and the
arrangement is adding, and will continue to add, materially to the commerce of our city.

A commendable progressive spirit has latterly been evinced by the managers generally, of our
railroads, in the transmission of freight, especially live stock and grain. The improvement
is a most grateful one to shippers, who have ordinarily quite enough anxiety and vexation to
suffer in the fluctuations of the market and subjection to unlooked for and onerous charges,
without having superadded unreasonable exposure and deterioration of their property while en
route to market. In this movement the management of the Central has fully sympathized. Their
stock and grain cars have received high commendations from those for whose benefit they were
intended. The entire equipment of the road is such as to comport with them; the safety, comfort
and convenience of the public, being constantly kept in view, regardless of the cost incurred.

The three staunch and magnificent steamers belonging to the company, the Plymouth Rock, Western
World and Mississippi, owing to the hard times have been laid up at their dock since the fall
of 1857, to the great regret of the public generally, as well as to the detriment of the business
interest of our city. With the return of a more prosperous era they will doubtless be again
placed in commission. The line formed by these boats is the most pleasant and expeditious medium
of communication between the East and the West and Southwest, and cannot fail to be well patronized,
especially now that the Dayton and Michigan Railroad is completed, which will bring a large
amount of both freight and passenger traffic by way of Detroit that formerly sought other routes.

The rolling stock now on the road consists of ninety-eight engines, seventy first class passenger
cars, twelve second class cars; twenty-nine baggage cars, and two thousand seven hundred and
seventy-eight freight cars, making a total of two thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine cars
and all of which were built in the company's own shops.

This road is one hundred and eighty-eight miles long, and has been in operation throughout
its whole extent since November, 1858. It is deserving of the distinctive appellation of the
Back Bone Road of Michigan, having been of incalculable value in developing the resources of
the region through which it is located, decidedly one of the richest and most important in
the West. The principal towns and cities upon its line are Pontiac, Fentonville, St. Johns,
Ionia, Grand Rapids and Grand Haven. The growth of these places has received a great impetus
since its completion, while numerous villages have also sprung into being as if by magic at
various points along the line. These changes are plainly visible in the improved trade of our
city, and the increase from the same cause, must continue to be strongly marked. Last season
over one-fourth of the wheat and wool received here was by this new route, and a number of
vessels loaded at the company's noble and spacious wharf for European ports direct.

Within the year past, the company have completed one of the finest railway wharves in the world.
It is 1,500 feet long by 90 broad, the west end of which is occupied by the freight house,
the dimensions of which are 450 by 132 feet.

One of the most important events to Detroit and the entire West, that has transpired for many
years, is the completion of this great thoroughfare. The link from Port Huron to this city
was opened to traffic on the 21st of November, since which date the businesses crowding upon
it has fully equaled its capacity. It is the Minerva of railways, having reached at a single
bound a condition of prosperity outrivaling many of the oldest established roads on the continent.

It possesses important advantages over any other road both for freight and passenger traffic.
Being of uniform gauge, no change of cars will be necessary from Sarnia to Portland; and being
also under the management of one corporation, it affords better facilities for the protection
of passengers and the preservation of their baggage than where they are required to pass over
lines under the control of different and perhaps conflicting corporations. Having only one
set of officers quartered upon its exchequer, it can afford to do business at lower proportionate
rates, than a number of shorter lines, each having a different set to salary, while the delay
and vexation which not unfrequently arise from short routes, being compelled to wait upon each
other's movements, will all be avoided, which is certainly no small consideration both to passengers
and shippers.

The harbor of Portland is one of the finest and most eligible in the world, and our immediate
connection with a point of such importance is of itself a matter deserving particular mention.
Portland district, as appears by the official statement of the tonnage of the United States,
made to June, 1857, then owned 145,242 tons of shipping, being the ninth port in the Union
in point of tonnage; she is very largely interested in the West India trade, her annual imports
of molasses exceeding those of any port in the United States. She offers, therefore, to the
Western States, peculiar facilities for procuring at a cheap rate the products of the West
Indies. The harbor is without any bar, and so easy of access that no pilots are required, and
strangers, with the sailing directions given in the American Coast Pilot, have brought their
ships into it with safety. There are no port charges, harbor dues, or light-house fees, excepting
the official custom house fees.

The Grand Trunk Railway is likely to become the avenue through which an immense tide of immigration
will pour into Michigan. It will be a favorite route for emigrants, who will thus avoid the
rascally impositions of the swindlers and Peter Funks of New York, who have given that city
an unenviable notoriety throughout the world. It is predicted that more immigrants will hereafter
come by the new route than by all others put together. There is no valid reason why this prediction
should not prove strictly true. This is therefore a matter likely to be of vast importance
to our State, with a large share of her territory as yet an unbroken wild, offering tempting
inducements to the hardy settler.

The completion of this stupendous bond of connection between the Eastern and Western States,
Canada and Europe, will render markets available which were before difficult of access, and
enable far-distant countries to exchange their products at all seasons. The Grand Trunk may
be called the first section of the PACIFIC RAILROAD, as it already communicates with the Mississippi
through Michigan, Illinois and Wisconsin Railroads, and we expect to see the line completed
from the Mississippi to California. It is not easy to form an estimate of the amount of traffic
and intercourse that the 1,150 miles of Grand Trunk Railway will bring to Michigan and the
neighboring States. A junction has been already formed with that model of western lines the
Michigan Central by which freight and passengers reach Chicago and the numerous lines which
diverge from that great commercial city. It is probable that another junction will be made
with the Detroit and Milwaukee Railway by means of a branch from Port Huron to Owasso. In this
case there will be a direct line across Michigan connecting with the Milwaukee railroads by
the ferry across the lake, and penetrating into Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, and Oregon by lines
which have not yet been traced on the railway maps of the United States.

The ostensible western terminus of this road is at Windsor, opposite our city, but it is practically
as much a Detroit road as any that can be named. The connections with the other routes centering
here is made by a number of ferry boats of the most staunch and powerful description. The receipts
by this route of general merchandise consigned to the cities and points westward of us is immense,
and it enjoys a large and growing local traffic.

The main line of the Southern Michigan and Northern Indiana Railroad, which taps a rich and
important portion of Michigan, is 461 miles in length. The business on this line has recently
shown a decided improvement.

The D. and T. Road, which is 65 miles in length, was opened to traffic in January 1857. It
was built by the "Detroit, Monroe, and Toledo Railroad Company," who leased it to the Michigan
Southern Road. It is now an important link in the great railway system extending from the East
to the Great Southwest, of which system, Detroit, from its favorable position, has become the
centre and soul. Since the opening of the Grand Trunk, in November, a large amount of freight
has passed through, billed for Liverpool direct, a species of freight which must steadily increase.

L. P. Knight is agent at Detroit. The office is in the depot building of the Detroit and Milwaukee
Railway.

