General Dorsenne wrote to the princess, complaining of this condition of affairs; and in consequence
she no doubt gave orders, but the general's letter remained unanswered, and several days passed
with no change of affairs.  They had had no change of napkins for a month, when the general
took a fancy to give a grand supper, at which Rhenish and Hungarian wine were freely indulged
in, followed by punch.  The host was highly complimented; but with these praises were mingled
energetic reproaches on the doubtful whiteness of the napery, General Dorsenne excusing himself
on the score of the ill-humor and sordid economy of the concierge, who was a fit exponent of
the scant courtesy shown by the princess.  "That is unendurable!" cried the joyous guests in
chorus.  "This hostess who so completely ignores us must be called to order.  Come, M----,
take pen and paper and write her some strong epigrams; we must teach this princess of Germany
how to live.  French officers and conquerors sleeping in rumpled sheets, and using soiled napkins!
What an outrage!" M. M was only too faithful an interpreter of the unanimous sentiments of
these gentlemen; and under the excitement of the fumes of these Hungarian wines wrote the Princess
of Lichtenstein a letter such as during the Carnival itself one would not dare to write even
to public women.  How can I express what must have been Madame Lichtenstein's horror on reading
this production,-- an incomprehensible collection of all the low expressions that army slang
could furnish!  The evidence of a third person was necessary to convince her that the signature,
M----, Surgeon-major of the Imperial French Guard, was not the forgery of some miserable drunkard.
In her profound indignation the princess hastened to General Andreossy, his Majesty's Governor
of Vienna, showed him this letter, and demanded vengeance. Whereupon the general, even more
incensed than she, entered his carriage, and, proceeding to Schoenbrunn, laid the wonderful
production before the Emperor.  The Emperor read it, recoiled three paces, his cheeks reddened
with anger, his whole countenance was disturbed, and in a terrible tone ordered the grand marshal
to summon M. M----, while every one waited in trembling suspense.

"Did you write this disgusting letter?"--"Sire."--"Reply, I order you; was it you?"--"Yes,
Sire, in a moment of forgetfulness, after a supper." --"Wretch!" cried his Majesty, in such
a manner as to terrify all who heard him.  "You deserve to be instantly shot!  Insult a woman
so basely! And an old woman too.  Have you no mother?  I respect and honor every old woman
because she reminds me of my mother!"--"Sire, I am guilty, I admit, but my repentance is great.
Deign to remember my services.  I have followed you through eighteen campaigns; I am the father
of a family." These last words only increased the anger of his Majesty.  "Let him be arrested!
Tear off his decorations; he is unworthy to wear them.  Let him be tried in twenty-four hours."
Then turning to the generals, who stood stupefied and immovable around him, he exclaimed, "Look,
gentlemen! read this!  See how this blackguard addresses a princess, and at the very moment
when her husband is negotiating a peace with me."

The parade was very short that day; and as soon as it was ended, Generals Dorsenne and Larrey
hastened to Madame Lichtenstein, and, describing to her the scene which had just taken place,
made her most humble apologies, in the name of the Imperial Guard, and at the same time entreated
her to intercede for the unfortunate fellow, who deserved blame, no doubt, but who was not
himself when he wrote the offensive epistle.  "He repents bitterly, Madame," said good M. Larrey;
"he weeps over his fault, and bravely awaits his punishment, esteeming it a just reparation
of the insult to you.  But he is one of the best officers of the army; he is beloved and esteemed;
he has saved the life of thousands, and his distinguished talents are the only fortune his
family possesses.  What will become of them if he is shot?"--"Shot!" exclaimed the princess;
"shot! Bon-Dieu!  would the matter be carried as far as that?"  Then General Dorsenne described
to her the Emperor's resentment as incomparably deeper than her own; and the princess, much
moved, immediately wrote the Emperor a letter, in which she expressed herself as grateful,
and fully satisfied with the reparation which had already been made, and entreated him to pardon
M. M----

His Majesty read the letter, but made no reply.  The princess was again visited; and she had
by this time become so much alarmed that she regretted exceedingly having shown the letter
of M. M---- to the general; and, having decided at any cost to obtain the surgeon's pardon,
she addressed a petition to the Emperor, which closed with this sentence, expressing angelic
forgiveness: "Sire, I am going to fall on my knees in my oratory, and will not rise until I
have obtained from Heaven your Majesty's pardon."  The Emperor could no longer hold out; he
granted the pardon, and M. M---- was released after a month of close confinement. M. Larrey
was charged by his Majesty to reprove him most severely, with a caution to guard more carefully
the honor of the corps to which he belonged; and the remonstrances of this excellent man were
made in so paternal a manner that they doubled in M. M----'s eyes the value of the inestimable
service M. Larrey had rendered him.

M. le Baron Larrey was always most disinterested in his kind services, a fact which was well
known and often abused.  General d'A----, the son of a rich senator, had his shoulder broken
by a shell at Wagram; and an exceedingly delicate operation was found necessary, requiring
a skilled hand, and which M. Larrey alone could perform.  This operation was a complete success;
but the wounded man had a delicate constitution, which had been much impaired, and consequently
required the most incessant care and attention.  M. Larrey hardly ever left his bedside, and
was assisted by two medical students, who watched by turns, and assisted him in dressing the
wound.  The treatment was long and painful, but a complete cure was the result; and when almost
entirely recovered, the general took leave of the Emperor to return to France.  A pension and
decorations canceled the debt of the head of the state to him, but the manner in which he acquitted
his own towards the man who had saved his life is worthy of consideration.

As he entered his carriage he handed to one of his friends a letter and a little box, saying
to this general, "I cannot leave Vienna without thanking M. Larrey; do me the favor of handing
to him for me this mark of my gratitude.  Good Larrey, I will never forget the services he
has rendered me."  Next day the friend performed his commission; and a soldier was sent with
the letter and the present, and, as he reached Schoenbrunn during the parade, sought M. Larrey
in the line.  "Here is a letter and a box which I bring from General A----."  M. Larrey put
both in his pocket, but after the parade examined them, and showed the package to Cadet de
Gassicourt, saying, "Look at it, and tell me what you think of it."  The letter was very prettily
written; as for the box, it contained a diamond worth about sixty francs.

This pitiful recompense recalls one both glorious and well-earned which M. Larrey received
from the Emperor during the campaign in Egypt.  At the battle of Aboukir, General Fugieres
was operated on by M. Larrey under the enemies' fire for a dangerous wound on the shoulder;
and thinking himself about to die, offered his sword to General Bonaparte, saying to him, "General,
perhaps one day you may envy my fate."  The general-in- chief presented this sword to M. Larrey,
after having engraved on it the name of M. Larrey and that of the battle.  However, General
Fugieres did not die; his life was saved by the skillful operation he had undergone, and for
seventeen years he commanded the Invalids at Avignon.

CHAPTER XX.

It is not in the presence of the enemy that differences in the manner and bearing of soldiers
can be remarked, for the requirements of the service completely engross both the ideas and
time of officers, whatever their grade, and uniformity of occupation produces also a kind of
uniformity of habit and character; but, in the monotonous life of the camp, differences due
to nature and education reassert themselves.  I noted this many times after the truces and
treaties of peace which crowned the most glorious campaigns of the Emperor, and had occasion
to renew my observations on this point during the long sojourn which we made at Schoenbrunn
with the army.  Military tone in the army is a most difficult thing to define, and differs
according to rank, time of service, and kind of service; and there are no genuine soldiers
except those who form part of the line, or who command it.  In the soldiers' opinion, the Prince
de Neuchatel and his brilliant staff, the grand marshal, Generals Bertrand, Bacler d'Albe,
etc., were only men of the cabinet council, whose experience might be of some use in such deliberations,
but to whom bravery was not indispensable.

The chief generals, such as Prince Eugene, Marshals Oudinot, Davoust, Bessieres, and his Majesty's
aides-decamp, Rapp, Lebrun, Lauriston, Mouton, etc., were exceedingly affable, and every one
was most politely received by them; their dignity never became haughtiness, nor their ease
an excessive familiarity, though their manners were at all times slightly tinged by the austerity
inseparable from the character of a warrior. This was not the idea held in the army in regard
to a few of the ordnance and staff officers (aides-de-camp); for, while according them all
the consideration due both to their education and their courage, they called them the jay-birds
of the army; receiving favors which others deserved; obtaining cordons and promotions for carrying
a few letters into camp, often without having even seen the enemy; insulting by their luxury
the modest temperance of the braver officers; and more foppish in the midst of their battalions
than in the boudoirs of their mistresses.  The silver-gilt box of one of these gentlemen was
a complete portable dressing-case, and contained, instead of cartridges, essence bottles, brushes,
a mirror, a tongue-scraper, a shell-comb, and--I do not know that it lacked even a pot of rouge.
It could not be said that they were not brave, for they would allow themselves to be killed
for a glance; but they were very, rarely exposed to danger.  Foreigners would be right in maintaining
the assertion that the French soldier is frivolous, presumptuous, impertinent, and immoral,
if they formed their judgment alone from these officers by courtesy, who, in place of study
and faithful service, had often no other title to their rank than the merit of having emigrated.

The officers of the line, who had served in several campaigns and had gained their epaulettes
on the field of battle, held a very different position in the army.  Always grave, polite,
and considerate, there was a kind of fraternity among them; and having known suffering and
misery themselves, they were always ready to help others; and their conversation, though not
distinguished by brilliant information, was often full of interest.  In nearly every case boasting
quitted them with their youth, and the bravest were always the most modest.  Influenced by
no imaginary points of honor, they estimated themselves at their real worth; and all fear of
being suspected of cowardice was beneath them. With these brave soldiers, who often united
to the greatest kindness of heart a mettle no less great, a flat contradiction or even a little
hasty abuse from one of their brothers in arms was not obliged to be washed out in blood; and
examples of the moderation which true courage alone has a right to show were not rare in the
army.  Those who cared least for money, and were most generous, were most exposed, the artillerymen
and the hussars, for instance.  At Wagram I saw a lieutenant pay a louis for a bottle of brandy,
and immediately divide it among the soldiers of his company; and brave officers often formed
such an attachment to their regiment, especially if it had distinguished itself, that they
sometimes refused promotion rather than be separated from their children, as they called them.
In them we behold the true model of the French soldier; and it is this kindness, mingled with
the austerity of a warrior, this attachment of the chief to the soldier, which the latter is
so capable of appreciating, and an impregnable honor, which serve to distinguish our soldiers
from all others, and not, as foreigners think, presumption, braggadocio, and libertinage, which
latter are ever the characteristics of the parasites of glory alone.

In the camp of Lobau on the evening before the battle of Wagram, the Emperor, as he was walking
outside his tent, stopped a moment watching the grenadiers of his guard who were breakfasting.
"Well, my children, what do you think of the wine?"--"It will not make us tipsy, Sire; there
is our cellar," said a soldier pointing to the Danube.  The Emperor, who had ordered a bottle
of good wine to be distributed to each soldier, was surprised to see that they were so abstemious
the evening before a battle.  He inquired of the Prince de Neuchatel the cause of this; and
upon investigation, it was learned that two storekeepers and an employee in the commissary
department had sold forty thousand bottles of the wine which the Emperor had ordered to be
distributed, and had replaced it with some of inferior quality.  This wine had been seized
by the Imperial Guard in a rich abbey, and was valued at thirty thousand florins.  The culprits
were arrested, tried, and condemned to death.

There was in the camp at Lobau a dog which I think all the army knew by the name of corps-de-garde.
He was old, emaciated, and ugly; but his moral qualities caused his exterior defects to be
quickly lost sight of. He was sometimes called the brave dog of the Empire; since he had received
a bayonet stroke at Marengo, and had a paw broken by a gun at Austerlitz, being at that time
attached to a regiment of dragoons.  He had no master.  He was in the habit of attaching himself
to a corps, and continuing faithful so long as they fed him well and did not beat him. A kick
or a blow with the flat of a sword would cause him to desert this regiment, and pass on to
another.  He was unusually intelligent; and whatever position of the corps in which he might
be the was serving, he did not abandon it, or confound it with any other, and in the thickest
of the fight was always near the banner he had chosen; and if in the camp he met a soldier
from the regiment he had deserted, he would droop his ears, drop his tail between his legs,
and scamper off quickly to rejoin his new brothers in arms.  When his regiment was on the march
he circled as a scout all around it, and gave warning by a bark if he found anything unusual,
thus on more than one occasion saving his comrades from ambush.

Among the officers who perished at the battle of Wagram, or rather in a small engagement which
took place after the battle had ended, one of those most regretted by the soldiers was General
Oudet.  He was one of the bravest generals of the army; but what brings his name especially
to mind, among all those whom the army lost on that memorable day, is a note which I have preserved
of a conversation I held several years after this battle with an excellent officer who was
one of my sincerest friends.

In a conversation with Lieutenant-colonel B---- in 1812, he remarked, "I must tell you, my
dear Constant, of a strange adventure which happened to me at Wagram.  I did not tell you at
the time, because I had promised to be silent; but since at the present time no one can be
compromised by my indiscretion, and since those who then had most to fear if their singular
ideas (for I can call them by no other name) had been revealed, would now be first to laugh
at them, I can well inform you of the mysterious discovery I made at that period.

"You well know that I was much attached to poor F---- whom we so much regretted; and he was
one of our most popular and attractive officers, his good qualities winning the hearts of all,
especially of those who like himself had an unfailing fund of frankness and good humor.  All
at once I noticed a great change in his manner, as well as in that of his habitual companions;
they appeared gloomy, and met together no more for gay conversation, but on the contrary spoke
in low tones and with an air of mystery.  More than once this sudden change had struck me;
and if by chance I met them in retired places, instead of receiving me cordially as had always
been their custom, they seemed as if trying to avoid me.  At last, weary of this inexplicable
mystery, I took F---- aside, and asked him what this strange conduct meant.  'You have forestalled
me, my dear friend,' said he.  'I was on the point of making an important disclosure; I trust
you will not accuse me of want of confidence, but swear to me before I confide in you that
you will tell no living soul what I am now going to reveal.'  When I had taken this oath, which
he demanded of me in a tone of gravity which surprised me inexpressibly, he continued, 'If
I have not already told you of the 'Philadelphi', it is only because I knew that reasons which
I respect would prevent your ever joining them; but since you have asked this secret, it would
be a want of confidence in you, and at the same time perhaps an imprudence, not to reveal it.
Some patriots have united themselves under the title of 'Philadelphi', in order to save our
country from the dangers to which it is exposed.  The Emperor Napoleon has tarnished the glory
of the First Consul Bonaparte; he had saved our liberty, but he has since destroyed it by the
reestablishment of the nobility and by the Concordat.  The society of the 'Philadelphi' has
as yet no well-defined plans for preventing the evils with which ambition will continue to
overwhelm France; but when peace is restored we shall see if it is impossible to force Bonaparte
to restore republican institutions, and meanwhile we are overcome by grief and despair.  The
brave chief of the 'Philadelphi', the pure Oudet, has been assassinated, and who is worthy
to take his place?  Poor Oudet!  never was one braver or more eloquent than he!  With a noble
haughtiness and an immovable firmness of character, he possessed an excellent heart.  His first
battle showed his intrepid spirit.  When cut down at Saint Bartholomew by a ball, his comrades
wished to bear him away, "No, no," cried he; "don't waste time over me.  The Spaniards!  the
Spaniards!"-- "Shall we leave you to the enemy?"  said one of those who had advanced towards
him.  "Well, drive them back if you do not wish me to be left with them."  At the beginning
of the campaign of Wagram, he was colonel of the Ninth regiment of the line, and was made general
of brigade on the evening before the battle, his corps forming part of the left wing commanded
by Massena.  Our line was broken on this side for a moment, and Oudet made heroic efforts to
reform it; and after he had been wounded by three bayonet strokes, with the loss of much blood,
and dragged away by those of us who were forced to fall back, still had himself fastened on
his horse in order that he might not be forced to leave the battlefield.

"'After the battle, he received orders to advance to the front, and to place himself with his
regiment in an advantageous position for observation, and then return immediately to headquarters,
with a certain number of his officers, to receive new orders.  He executed these orders, and
was returning in the night, when a discharge of musketry was suddenly heard, and he fell into
an ambush; he fought furiously in the darkness, knowing neither the number nor character of
his adversaries, and at break of day was found, covered with wounds, in the midst of twenty
officers who had been slain around him.  He was still breathing, and lived three days; but
the only words he pronounced were those of commiseration for the fate of his country.  When
his body was taken from the hospital to prepare it for burial, several of the wounded in their
despair tore the bandages from their wounds, a sergeant-major threw himself on his sword near
the grave, and a lieutenant there blew out his brains.  Behold,' said F----, 'a death that
plunges us into the deepest despair!'  I tried to prove to him that he was mistaken, and that
the plans of the 'Philadelphi' were mad, but succeeded very imperfectly; and though he listened
to my advice, he again earnestly recommended secrecy."

The day after the battle of Wagram, I think, a large number of officers were breakfasting near
the Emperor's tent, the generals seated on the grass, and the officers standing around them.
They discussed the battle at length, and related numerous remarkable anecdotes, some of which
remain engraven on my memory.  A staff-officer of his Majesty said, "I thought I had lost my
finest horse.  As I had ridden him on the 5th and wished him to rest, I gave him to my servant
to hold by the bridle; and when he left him one moment to attend to his own, the horse was
stolen in a flash by a dragoon, who instantly sold him to a dismounted captain, telling him
he was a captured horse.  I recognized him in the ranks, and claimed him, proving by my saddle-bags
and their contents that he was not a horse taken from the Austrians, and had to repay the captain
the five louis which he had paid to the dragoon for this horse which had cost me sixty."

The best anecdote, perhaps, of the day was this: M. Salsdorf, a Saxon, and surgeon in Prince
Christian's regiment, in the beginning of the battle had his leg fractured by a shell.  Lying
on the ground, he saw, fifteen paces from him, M. Amedee de Kerbourg, who was wounded by a
bullet, and vomiting blood.  He saw that this officer would die of apoplexy if something was
not done for him, and collecting all his strength, dragged himself along in the dust, bled
him, and saved his life.

M. de Kerbourg had no opportunity to embrace the one who had saved his life; for M. de Salsdorf
was carried to Vienna, and only survived the amputation four days.

CHAPTER XXI.

At Schoenbrunn, as elsewhere, his Majesty marked his presence by his benefactions.  I still
retain vivid recollections of an occurrence which long continued to be the subject of conversation
at this period, and the singular details of which render it worthy of narration.

