It was in these houses, principally in the Hotel de Richelieu, much more still in the Hotel
d'Albret, where the Marechal d'Albret lived in great state, that Madame Scarron made the majority
of her acquaintances.  The Marechal was cousin-german of M. de Montespan, very intimate with
him, and with Madame de Montespan.  When she became the King's mistress he became her counsellor,
and abandoned her husband.

To the intimacy between the Marechal d'Albret and Madame de Montespan, Madame de Maintenon
owed the good fortune she met with fourteen or fifteen years later.  Madame de Montespan continually
visited the Hotel d'Albret, and was much impressed with Madame Scarron.  She conceived a friendship
for the obliging widow, and when she had her first children by the King--M. du Maine and Madame
la Duchesse, whom the King wished to conceal--she proposed that they should be confided to
Madame Scarron.  A house in the Marais was accordingly given to her, to lodge in with them,
and the means to bring them up, but in the utmost secrecy.  Afterwards, these children were
taken to Madame de Montespan, then shown to the King, and then by degrees drawn from secrecy
and avowed.  Their governess, being established with them at the Court, more and more pleased
Madame de Montespan, who several times made the King give presents to her.  He, on the other
hand, could not endure her; what he gave to her, always little, was by excess of complaisance
and with a regret that he did not hide.

The estate of Maintenon being for sale, Madame de Montespan did not let the King rest until
she had drawn from him enough to buy it for Madame Scarron, who thenceforth assumed its name.
She obtained enough also for the repair of the chateau, and then attacked the King for means
to arrange the garden, which the former owners had allowed to go to ruin.

It was at the toilette of Madame de Montespan that these demands were made.  The captain of
the guards alone followed the King there.  M. le Marechal de Lorges, the truest man that ever
lived, held that post then, and he has often related to me the scene he witnessed.  The King
at first turned a deaf ear to the request of Madame de Montespan, and then refused.  Annoyed
that she still insisted, he said he had already done more than enough for this creature; that
he could not understand the fancy of Madame de Montespan for her, and her obstinacy in keeping
her after he had begged her so many times to dismiss her; that he admitted Madame Scarron was
insupportable to him, and provided he never saw her more and never heard speak of her, he would
open his purse again; though, to say truth, he had already given too much to a creature of
this kind! Never did M. le Marechel de Lorges forget these words; and he has always repeated
them to me and others precisely as they are given here, so struck was he with them, and much
more after all that he saw since, so astonishing and so contradictory.  Madame de Montespan
stopped short, very much troubled by having too far pressed the King.

M. du Maine was extremely lame; this was caused, it was said, by a fall he had from his nurse's
arms.  Nothing done for him succeeded; the resolution was then taken to send him to various
practicians in Flanders, and elsewhere in the realm, then to the waters, among others to Bareges.
The letters that the governess wrote to Madame de Montespan, giving an account of these journeys,
were shown to the King.  He thought them well written, relished them, and the last ones made
his aversion for the writer diminish.

The ill-humour of Madame de Montespan finished the work.  She had a good deal of that quality,
and had become accustomed to give it full swing. The King was the object of it more frequently
than anybody; he was still amorous; but her ill-humour pained him.  Madame de Maintenon reproached
Madame de Montespan for this, and thus advanced herself in the King's favour.  The King, by
degrees, grew accustomed to speak sometimes to Madame de Maintenon; to unbosom to her what
he wished her to say to Madame de Montespan; at last to relate to her the chagrin this latter
caused him, and to consult her thereupon.

Admitted thus into the intimate confidence of the lover and the mistress, and this by the King's
own doing, the adroit waiting-woman knew how to cultivate it, and profited so well by her industry
that by degrees she supplanted Madame de Montespan, who perceived, too late, that her friend
had become necessary to the King.  Arrived at this point, Madame de Maintenon made, in her
turn, complaints to the King of all she had to suffer, from a mistress who spared even him
so little; and by dint of these mutual complaints about Madame de Montespan, Madame de Maintenon
at last took her place, and knew well how to keep it.

Fortune, I dare not say Providence, which was preparing for the haughtiest of kings, humiliation
the most profound, the most-public, the most durable, the most unheard-of, strengthened more
and more his taste for this woman, so adroit and expert at her trade; while the continued ill-humour
and jealousy of Madame de Montespan rendered the new union still more solid.  It was this that
Madame de Sevigne so prettily paints, enigmatically, in her letters to Madame de Grignan, in
which she sometimes talks of these Court movements; for Madame de Maintenon had been in Paris
in the society of Madame de Sevigne, of Madame de Coulange, of Madame de La Fayette, and had
begun to make them feel her importance. Charming touches are to be seen in the same style upon
the favour, veiled but brilliant enjoyed by Madame de Soubise.

It was while the King was in the midst of his partiality for Madame de Maintenon that the Queen
died.  It was at the same time, too, that the ill-humour of Madame de Montespan became more
and more insupportable. This imperious beauty, accustomed to domineer and to be adored, could
not struggle against the despair, which the prospect of her fall caused her. What carried her
beyond all bounds, was that she could no longer disguise from herself, that she had an abject
rival whom she had supported, who owed everything to her; whom she had so much liked that she
had several times refused to dismiss her when pressed to do so by the King; a rival, too, so
beneath her in beauty, and older by several years; to feel that it was this lady's-maid, not
to say this servant, that the King most frequently went to see; that he sought only her; that
he could not dissimulate his uneasiness if he did not find her; that he quitted all for her;
in fine, that at all moments she (Madame de Montespan) needed the intervention of Madame de
Maintenon, in order to attract the King to reconcile her with him, or to obtain the favours
she asked for.  It was then, in times so propitious to the enchantress, that the King became
free by the death of the Queen.

He passed the first few days at Saint-Cloud, at Monsieur's, whence he went to Fontainebleau,
where he spent all the autumn.  It was there that his liking, stimulated by absence, made him
find that absence insupportable.  Upon his return it is pretended--for we must distinguish
the certain from that which is not so--it is pretended, I say, that the King spoke more freely
to Madame de Maintenon, and that she; venturing to put forth her strength, intrenched herself
behind devotion and prudery; that the King did not cease, that she preached to him and made
him afraid of the devil, and that she balanced his love against his conscience with so much
art, that she succeeded in becoming what our eyes have seen her, but what posterity will never
believe she was.

But what is very certain and very true, is, that some time after the return of the King from
Fontainebleau, and in the midst of the winter that followed the death of the Queen (posterity
will with difficulty believe it, although perfectly true and proved), Pere de la Chaise, confessor
of the King, said mass at the dead of night in one of the King's cabinets at Versailles.  Bontems,
governor of Versailles, chief valet on duty, and the most confidential of the four, was present
at this mass, at which the monarch and La Maintenon were married in presence of Harlay, Archbishop
of Paris, as diocesan, of Louvois (both of whom drew from the King a promise that he would
never declare this marriage), and of Montchevreuil.  This last was a relative and friend of
Villarceaux, to whom during the summer he lent his house at Montchevreuil, remaining there
himself, however, with his wife; and in that house Villarceaux kept Madame Scarron, paying
all the expenses because his relative was poor, and because he (Villarceaux) was ashamed to
take her to his own home, to live in concubinage with her in the presence of his wife whose
patience and virtue he respected.

The satiety of the honeymoon, usually so fatal, and especially the honeymoon of such marriages,
only consolidated the favour of Madame de Maintenon.  Soon after, she astonished everybody
by the apartments given to her at Versailles, at the top of the grand staircase facing those
of the King and on the same floor.  From that moment the King always passed some hours with
her every day of his life; wherever she might be she was always lodged near him, and on the
same floor if possible.

What manner of person she was,--this incredible enchantress,--and how she governed all-powerfully
for more than thirty years, it behoves me now to explain!

CHAPTER LXXVI

Madame de Maintenon was a woman of much wit, which the good company, in which she had at first
been merely suffered, but in which she soon shone, had much polished; and ornamented with knowledge
of the world, and which gallantry had rendered of the most agreeable kind.  The various positions
she had held had rendered her flattering, insinuating, complaisant, always seeking to please.
The need she had of intrigues, those she had seen of all kinds, and been mixed up in for herself
and for others, had given her the taste, the ability, and the habit of them.  Incomparable
grace, an easy manner, and yet measured and respectful, which, in consequence of her long obscurity,
had become natural to her, marvellously aided her talents; with language gentle, exact, well
expressed, and naturally eloquent and brief.  Her best time, for she was three or four years
older than the King, had been the dainty phrase period;--the superfine gallantry days,--in
a word, the time of the "ruelles," as it was called; and it had so influenced her that she
always retained evidences of it.  She put on afterwards an air of importance, but this gradually
gave place to one of devoutness that she wore admirably.  She was not absolutely false by disposition,
but necessity had made her so, and her natural flightiness made her appear twice as false as
she was.

The distress and poverty in which she had so long lived had narrowed her mind, and abased her
heart and her sentiments.  Her feelings and her thoughts were so circumscribed, that she was
in truth always less even than Madame Scarron, and in everything and everywhere she found herself
such.  Nothing was more repelling than this meanness, joined to a situation so radiant.

