And at that moment the Infanta herself came in with her companions through the open window,
and when they saw the ugly little dwarf lying on the ground and beating the floor with his
clenched hands, in the most fantastic and exaggerated manner, they went off into shouts of
happy laughter, and stood all round him and watched him.

'His dancing was funny,' said the Infanta; 'but his acting is funnier still.  Indeed he is
almost as good as the puppets, only of course not quite so natural.'  And she fluttered her
big fan, and applauded.

But the little Dwarf never looked up, and his sobs grew fainter and fainter, and suddenly he
gave a curious gasp, and clutched his side.  And then he fell back again, and lay quite still.

'That is capital,' said the Infanta, after a pause; 'but now you must dance for me.'

'Yes,' cried all the children, 'you must get up and dance, for you are as clever as the Barbary
apes, and much more ridiculous.'  But the little Dwarf made no answer.

And the Infanta stamped her foot, and called out to her uncle, who was walking on the terrace
with the Chamberlain, reading some despatches that had just arrived from Mexico, where the
Holy Office had recently been established.  'My funny little dwarf is sulking,' she cried,
'you must wake him up, and tell him to dance for me.'

They smiled at each other, and sauntered in, and Don Pedro stooped down, and slapped the Dwarf
on the cheek with his embroidered glove.  'You must dance,' he said, 'petit monsire.  You must
dance. The Infanta of Spain and the Indies wishes to be amused.'

But the little Dwarf never moved.

'A whipping master should be sent for,' said Don Pedro wearily, and he went back to the terrace.
But the Chamberlain looked grave, and he knelt beside the little dwarf, and put his hand upon
his heart. And after a few moments he shrugged his shoulders, and rose up, and having made
a low bow to the Infanta, he said -

'Mi bella Princesa, your funny little dwarf will never dance again. It is a pity, for he is
so ugly that he might have made the King smile.'

'But why will he not dance again?' asked the Infanta, laughing.

'Because his heart is broken,' answered the Chamberlain.

And the Infanta frowned, and her dainty rose-leaf lips curled in pretty disdain.  'For the
future let those who come to play with me have no hearts,' she cried, and she ran out into
the garden.

THE FISHERMAN AND HIS SOUL

[TO H.S.H. ALICE, PRINCESS OF MONACO]

Every evening the young Fisherman went out upon the sea, and threw his nets into the water.

When the wind blew from the land he caught nothing, or but little at best, for it was a bitter
and black-winged wind, and rough waves rose up to meet it.  But when the wind blew to the shore,
the fish came in from the deep, and swam into the meshes of his nets, and he took them to the
market-place and sold them.

Every evening he went out upon the sea, and one evening the net was so heavy that hardly could
he draw it into the boat.  And he laughed, and said to himself, 'Surely I have caught all the
fish that swim, or snared some dull monster that will be a marvel to men, or some thing of
horror that the great Queen will desire,' and putting forth all his strength, he tugged at
the coarse ropes till, like lines of blue enamel round a vase of bronze, the long veins rose
up on his arms.  He tugged at the thin ropes, and nearer and nearer came the circle of flat
corks, and the net rose at last to the top of the water.

But no fish at all was in it, nor any monster or thing of horror, but only a little Mermaid
lying fast asleep.

Her hair was as a wet fleece of gold, and each separate hair as a thread of fine gold in a
cup of glass.  Her body was as white ivory, and her tail was of silver and pearl.  Silver and
pearl was her tail, and the green weeds of the sea coiled round it; and like sea-shells were
her ears, and her lips were like sea-coral.  The cold waves dashed over her cold breasts, and
the salt glistened upon her eyelids.

So beautiful was she that when the young Fisherman saw her he was filled with wonder, and he
put out his hand and drew the net close to him, and leaning over the side he clasped her in
his arms.  And when he touched her, she gave a cry like a startled sea-gull, and woke, and
looked at him in terror with her mauve-amethyst eyes, and struggled that she might escape.
But he held her tightly to him, and would not suffer her to depart.

And when she saw that she could in no way escape from him, she began to weep, and said, 'I
pray thee let me go, for I am the only daughter of a King, and my father is aged and alone.'

But the young Fisherman answered, 'I will not let thee go save thou makest me a promise that
whenever I call thee, thou wilt come and sing to me, for the fish delight to listen to the
song of the Sea- folk, and so shall my nets be full.'

'Wilt thou in very truth let me go, if I promise thee this?' cried the Mermaid.

'In very truth I will let thee go,' said the young Fisherman.

So she made him the promise he desired, and sware it by the oath of the Sea-folk.  And he loosened
his arms from about her, and she sank down into the water, trembling with a strange fear.

Every evening the young Fisherman went out upon the sea, and called to the Mermaid, and she
rose out of the water and sang to him. Round and round her swam the dolphins, and the wild
gulls wheeled above her head.

And she sang a marvellous song.  For she sang of the Sea-folk who drive their flocks from cave
to cave, and carry the little calves on their shoulders; of the Tritons who have long green
beards, and hairy breasts, and blow through twisted conchs when the King passes by; of the
palace of the King which is all of amber, with a roof of clear emerald, and a pavement of bright
pearl; and of the gardens of the sea where the great filigrane fans of coral wave all day long,
and the fish dart about like silver birds, and the anemones cling to the rocks, and the pinks
bourgeon in the ribbed yellow sand. And then get as drunk as any white person, sometimes even more
so. In time, this character began appearing in Madrid with regularity at the end of Abolitionist
meetings. People would recognize him as "the black from the Valley."

In spite of his democratic political ideas, his eternally sweet and friendly smile gained him entrée
to the court. Even Dr. Bernardo failed to tag him as Democratic or Abolitionist beyond the
most superficial level. He appointed himself as friend and protector, and the most he'd say about his political
ideas were that they "would be modified with time."
  She sang of the nautilus
who has a boat of her own that is carved out of an opal and steered with a silken sail; of
the happy Mermen who play upon harps and can charm the great Kraken to sleep; of the little
children who catch hold of the slippery porpoises and ride laughing upon their backs; of the
Mermaids who lie in the white foam and hold out their arms to the mariners; and of the sea-lions
with their curved tusks, and the sea-horses with their floating manes.

And as she sang, all the tunny-fish came in from the deep to listen to her, and the young Fisherman
threw his nets round them and caught them, and others he took with a spear.  And when his boat
was well-laden, the Mermaid would sink down into the sea, smiling at him.

Yet would she never come near him that he might touch her. Oftentimes he called to her and
prayed of her, but she would not; and when he sought to seize her she dived into the water
as a seal might dive, nor did he see her again that day.  And each day the sound of her voice
became sweeter to his ears.  So sweet was her voice that he forgot his nets and his cunning,
and had no care of his craft.  Vermilion-finned and with eyes of bossy gold, the tunnies went
by in shoals, but he heeded them not.  His spear lay by his side unused, and his baskets of
plaited osier were empty. With lips parted, and eyes dim with wonder, he sat idle in his boat
and listened, listening till the sea-mists crept round him, and the wandering moon stained
his brown limbs with silver.

And one evening he called to her, and said:  'Little Mermaid, little Mermaid, I love thee.
Take me for thy bridegroom, for I love thee.'

But the Mermaid shook her head.  'Thou hast a human soul,' she answered.  'If only thou wouldst
send away thy soul, then could I love thee.'

And the young Fisherman said to himself, 'Of what use is my soul to me?  I cannot see it. 
I may not touch it.  I do not know it. Surely I will send it away from me, and much gladness
shall be mine.'  And a cry of joy broke from his lips, and standing up in the painted boat,
he held out his arms to the Mermaid.  'I will send my soul away,' he cried, 'and you shall
be my bride, and I will be thy bridegroom, and in the depth of the sea we will dwell together,
and all that thou hast sung of thou shalt show me, and all that thou desirest I will do, nor
shall our lives be divided.'

And the little Mermaid laughed for pleasure and hid her face in her hands.

'But how shall I send my soul from me?' cried the young Fisherman. 'Tell me how I may do it,
and lo! it shall be done.'

'Alas!  I know not,' said the little Mermaid:  'the Sea-folk have no souls.'  And she sank
down into the deep, looking wistfully at him. "Will I not find myself seen in the midst of virgin forests, always under the sky, with foods
like pineapple, banana, coconut water, and guava?"

He talked non-stop like this in a racing manner.

The novice looked out through the wicket, and when he saw who it was, he drew back the latch
and said to him, 'Enter.'

And the young Fisherman passed in, and knelt down on the sweet- smelling rushes of the floor,
and cried to the Priest who was reading out of the Holy Book and said to him, 'Father, I am
in love with one of the Sea-folk, and my soul hindereth me from having my desire.  Tell me
how I can send my soul away from me, for in truth I have no need of it.  Of what value is my
soul to me?  I cannot see it.  I may not touch it.  I do not know it.'

And the Priest beat his breast, and answered, 'Alack, alack, thou art mad, or hast eaten of
some poisonous herb, for the soul is the noblest part of man, and was given to us by God that
we should nobly use it.  There is no thing more precious than a human soul, nor any earthly
thing that can be weighed with it.  It is worth all the gold that is in the world, and is more
precious than the rubies of the kings.  Therefore, my son, think not any more of this matter,
for it is a sin that may not be forgiven.  And as for the Sea-folk, they are lost, and they
who would traffic with them are lost also.  They are as the beasts of the field that know not
good from evil, and for them the Lord has not died.'

The young Fisherman's eyes filled with tears when he heard the bitter words of the Priest,
and he rose up from his knees and said to him, 'Father, the Fauns live in the forest and are
glad, and on the rocks sit the Mermen with their harps of red gold.  Let me be as they are,
I beseech thee, for their days are as the days of flowers.  And as for my soul, what doth my
soul profit me, if it stand between me and the thing that I love?'

