The culmination of the political agitation for the dissolution of the Federal Union, and the
commencement of actual hostilities between the government and the seceding states, found WILLIAM
F. SMITH, only a captain by law, after fourteen years of continuous service, a few months over
thirty-seven years of age, and in the full maturity of his faculties. As before stated, his
health was never afterwards altogether stable, but it was sufficiently re-established to enable
him to throw himself heartily into the struggle and to perform such duties as fell to his lot
with a fair degree of endurance. Although a Democrat, as far as he had any party connection,
his sympathies were all with the Union and National Government, and impelled him to lose no
time, but make haste, on his return from Key West and Havana, to obtain such employment as
might be open to him. The first duty that was offered him was in New York, where he was engaged
for several weeks in mustering the volunteers into the United States service.

During this period, on the 24th of April, 1861, he was married to Miss Sarah Lyon, a young
lady of New York, who was famous for the loveliness of her person and character, whom he had
first met two years before. It was on a short wedding trip to his native state that he offered
his services to the Governor. The latter had already raised and organized two regiments of
infantry but without hesitation he promised Captain Smith the next, as soon as it should be
called for.

Meanwhile he was still subject to duty as an engineer officer, and as such, strangely enough
was ordered to report to Major General Benjamin F. Butler, fresh from the life of a successful
lawyer, then in command at Fortress Monroe, where he arrived on the 1st of June, 1861. While
there he conducted several important reconnaissances in the direction of Yorktown and Big Bethel,
and thus became acquainted with a region in which he was afterwards to play a most important
part. His services lasted something less than two months, and became still more notable from
the fact that they made him thoroughly acquainted with General Butler. They were brought suddenly
to an end by the reappearance of his old trouble, which in time made it necessary for him to
take a sick-leave. The surgeon who had him in charge directed him to again seek the tonic climate
of Brattleborough in his native State. According to promise, his good friend, the Governor,
took the earliest opportunity to send him his commission as Colonel of the Third Regiment of
Vermont Volunteer Infantry, to date from July 16th. But owing to the scarcity of regular officers,
he had previously been ordered to duty on the staff of General McDowell, then commanding the
army in front of Washington, though, his health did not permit him to join in time to take
part in the forward movement which ended in the disastrous battle of Bull Run.

As soon however as his strength was sufficiently re-established Colonel Smith repaired to Washington,
and in the rush and excitement which prevailed after the return of the defeated army to that
neighborhood, he was engaged in helping to fortify and defend that city till the danger was
past and the requirements of his regiment made it necessary for him to take command and begin
its preparation for active service. It is to be noted that there was an unaccountable reluctance
on the part of the War Department at the time, to permit the detachment of officers belonging
to the various staff corps, for the purpose of commanding volunteers, but this was overcome
without much difficulty in his case, and he began his career as an infantry colonel opportunely
at the very time that McClellan was re-organizing the defeated army and badly needed the assistance
of educated officers. Deeply impressed with the importance of stimulating the pride of the
volunteers, and of keeping alive the heroic traditions of their state by all proper means,
Colonel Smith recommended that the Vermont regiments should be brigaded and trained together,
and fortunately this was approved by General McClellan. The Green Mountain men had won great
renown in the Colonial and Revolutionary Wars by virtue of their state organization and services
and the marked individuality which characterized them. It was a happy thought to keep them
together during the Civil War. The sequel showed that it was not only highly beneficial to
the national cause, but that it added greatly to the fame of the Vermont men.

As the war was a sectional one in its origin, many of our best officers believed that the volunteer
regiments should be formed into brigades and divisions, without reference to the States from
which they came. They held that an army organized in this way would more rapidly develop the
national spirit and become a more efficient military machine than one formed on state or sectional
lines, and the general practice to the end of the war, in the Union army, was in accordance
with this idea.

The Vermont brigade, composed of the Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Vermont Regiments,
was the one notable exception to this practice and the result was in every way satisfactory.
It preserved its identity till the end of the war and became famous as one of the best and
most distinctive organizations that ever upheld the Union cause. It was composed almost entirely
of native Vermont men, racy of the soil, hardy, self-reliant and courageous, and always ready
for the serious business of warfare. It owned its early and enduring discipline to Smith, who
was appointed Brigadier General on the 13th of August, and from that time forth it never ceased
to have a place in his affections. From the first he took a special pride in his regiment,
and devoted himself earnestly to its instruction and discipline, for the perfection of which
it soon became noted, but in those days of rapid changes, when the loyal states were sending
forth their volunteers by the hundred thousand, brigades soon grew into divisions, and divisions
into army-corps and armies.

