A very sufficient guide Harold proved himself, and they came, not to any poetical robber's
cavern, but within sight of a set of shanties, looking like any ordinary station of a low character.
There a sudden volley of shot from an ambush poured upon them, happily without any serious
wounds, and a hand-to-hand battle began, for the robbers having thus taken the initiative,
it was hardly needful to display the search warrant with which the party had come armed.  And
to the amazement of all, the gang was headed by a man who seemed the very counterpart of Harold,
not, perhaps, quite so tall, but with much the same complexion and outline, though he was somewhat
older, and had the wild, fierce, ruffianly aspect of a bushranger.  This man was taking deliberate
aim at the magistrate who acted as head of the party, when Harold flung down his own loaded
rifle, sprang upon him, and there was the most tremendous wrestling match that Dermot said
he could have imagined. Three times Harold's antagonist touched the earth, three times he sprang
from it again with redoubled vigour, until, at last, Harold clasped his arms round him, lifted
him in the air, and dashed him to the ground, where he lay senseless.  And then, to the general
amusement, Harold seemed astonished at his state as he lay prone, observing, "I did not want
to hurt him;" and presently told Dermot, "I believe he is old Mrs. Sam Alison's son."

And so it proved.  He was the Henry or Harry Alison of whose deeds the Stympsons had heard.
The gang was, after all, not very extensive; two had been shot in the fray, one was wounded,
and one surrendered. Alison, though not dead, was perfectly helpless, and was carried down
the rocky valley on an extemporary litter, Harold taking his usual share of the labour.  The
sheep and cattle on whom were recognised the marks of the Alisons of Boola Boola, and of sundry
of their neighbours, were collected, to be driven down and reclaimed by their owners, and the
victory was complete.

CHAPTER XII.

THE GOLDEN FRUIT.

While all this was passing on the other side the world, Eustace fulfilled his wish for a season
in London, was presented by Lord Erymanth, went to a court ball, showed his horses in the Park,
lived at a club, and went to Ascot and Epsom.  He fulfilled Harold's boast that he might be
trusted not to get into mischief, for he really had no taste for vice, and when left to himself
had the suspicious dislike to spending money which is so often found where the intellect is
below the average.  Vanity and self-consequence were the poor fellow's leading foibles, and
he did not find that they were gratified when among his equals and superiors in station. How not find a less indifferent and cold depths less off and hard for the
father she Zubulzu?

Ramona was beautiful, elegant, there was nothing foolish and while living in high society, and
not fall into the pit, had to have fans, young and old friends that estimated that cared for her,
and some of which, despite all his modesty and severity of morals, could she be kind, granting
favors those breed predilection and clean and friendly no longer trust the austere virtue,
but neither the sanctity prohibited. How is it that none of those friends first tried to avoid
falling into the abyss, or tried to remove it after without demanding
in return the humiliation and disgrace?

It is possible that the circumstances have so that an unfortunate person does not find who turn away,
but should not be assumed, without insulting or slandering the human race unfortunate that such person
is not offended because it really does not exist in the world. Misfortune Ramona arrives, therefore
the rarest if not the most incredible extremes. Out of hunchback nobody there to assist it or to look for
it: neither raised nor other poor people, or people, middle class,
friends or relatives of your family, or ladies and gentlemen of the
aristocratic society that has grown up and has since lived.

Strange is also the complete and terrible misery to which the author leads her heroine, providing
it to do so magnanimous generosity, which can not but be a bit confused
with the simplicity even in the thinking of fictional people and despised
material interests.

Anyone would think, finally, the idea that a young healthy woman, twenty-five or twenty years,
carefully educated, must have some ability to know something, have some means, industry or
resource to earn an honest living. It can be nurse, teacher rich or chaperon. You can teach music,
French, English, and hand work to first letters. You can embroider, paint, make something, in short,
it is worth two or three pesetas daily. Bad luck tightening, but not always chokes. In The
chasm is too note the strong author's efforts to hasten her as his heroine throwing on such
a depth that does not able to leave, that he had no recourse but death or infamy. Ramona driven
by the gloomy imagination of Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo, is to fall fatally in this horrible dilemma:
either kill or be the mistress of the bullfighter Severiano, aka the band. And as the unhappy
Ramona lacks the courage that is required premeditated suicide, or if the value is not missing,
his conscience or religious ban him committing such heinous crime, Ramona opt on the other end
of the dilemma, and it is seen, at the end of the novel, which will incur an sin uglier, dirtier
and more plebeian, though less fierce and less unlike suicide natural
order and reason and divine will.

While reading the last pages of the abyss we forge for a few moments of pleasant Ramona illusion
that, in the midst of its abandonment, was to find a noble defender in the torero someone
to protect her brutally without requiring payment, but, as already indicated, this illusion fades
quickly. The bullfighter is no better than the other beings of our
species.

Prominent among them only by their energy, but this energy does not manifest its activity
by any generous impulse, but motivated only by selfish and bestial appetites.

Although as stated above, despite some improprieties and improbabilities in details, and despite
too many coincidences that occur with regard to seem fortuitous, as the sudden appearance of a bullfighter
in a serious time that saves Ramona the most shameful and miserable trance, the pit is planned
and written with such art, their reading interests, attracts and
seduces, but instead to delight grieve, ending up discouraged, if
we had no recourse to think that everything is fake and false, that
everything is fixed, exaggerated and teratology, and not ordinary
and current, fortunately.

In short, I would dare to call me Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo of good painter of manners, although I
am glad that showed less bitter taste for bad painter, and that he should put less black, less shadows
and more light, ink and more pink and blue sky on his palette. Perhaps in the future do so without
persist in producing extraordinary grieving effects more than just
the minds of his readers. Very much so, in my opinion, will win with
this, Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo.  It had been a succession of falls lower and lower, as with each failure habits
of drunkenness and dissipation fastened on him, and peculation and dishonesty on that congenial
soil grew into ruffianism.   Expelled from the gold diggings for some act too mean even for
that atmosphere, he had become the leader of a gang of runaway shepherds in the recesses of
the Red Valley, and spread increasing terror there until the attack on him in his stronghold,
when Harold's cousinly embrace (really intended to spare his life, as well as that of the magistrate)
had absolutely injured his spine, probably for life.  He had with great difficulty been carried
to Sydney, and there placed in the hospital instead of the jail; since, disabled as he was,
no one wished to prosecute the poor wretch, and identification was always a difficulty.  Harold
had been taking daily care of him, and had found him in his weak and broken state ready to
soften, nay, to shed tears, at the thought of his mother; evincing feelings that might be of
little service if he had recovered, but if he were crippled for life might be the beginning
of better things.  Harold had given him the Bible, and the stockings, and had left him alone
with them.  The Bible was as yet left untouched, as if he were afraid of it, but he had ever
since been turning over and fondling the stockings, as though all the love that the poor mother
had been knitting into them for years and years, apparently in vain, were exhaling like the
heat and colours stored by the sun in ages past in our coals. The sun passes through many layers of water and
all so full of clarity, but there in the depths, lost and obscures the view, including iris,
reflexes, sunflowers and lightning Argentina, and nothing distinguishes accurately and steadily.
The Father had not changed in appearance at least. The same serenity as sweetly as ever. Not alter
his voice to speak of D. Nor Jaime D. Jaime. In speaking with Dona Luz, showed Father loving
former benevolence.  He would even endure the son, and lodge
him in one of the dependencies of his house, which had large grounds looking into beautiful
Sydney Bay, provided he could secure such a person.

Even an escort had been arranged, as a brother of the gentleman was in England, and about to
return with his wife to Australia; so that I was at once to communicate with them, pack her
up, and consign her to them. To Mrs. Alison herself Harold wrote with the offer of the situation,
and a representation of her son's need and longing for her, telling her the poor fellow's affectionate
messages, and promising himself to meet her at Sydney on her arrival.

He must needs await the arrival of Prometesky's pardon, in answer to the recommendations that
had gone by this very mail, and which he had had no difficulty in obtaining.  The squatters
round Boola Boola would have done anything for the man who had delivered them from the Red
Valley gang; and, besides, there was no one who had been long enough in the country to remember
anything adverse to the old hermit mechanist, and most of them could hardly believe that he
"had not come out at his own expense."  And at Sydney, as a visitor, highly spoken of by letters
from the Colonial Secretary, and in company with an English gentleman connected as was Mr.
Tracy, Harold found himself in a very different sphere from that of the wild young sheep-farmer,
coming down half for business, half for roistering diversion. Wow, that is
good! Well I say it or print it on paper! That, my master, Don Marcelo, and the jito is passed
over as much of right ... and no good.

Well, well, it's an idea! - This is Lituca, put your finger on the sore, neither more nor less,
and call things by their names, even though you apparently believe
otherwise to pass the buck ... and pardon me the frankness. - But
if you have not reached that case, trapacerón of the devil, how do
I answer him? - In the event that I have come to you the question.
- But you know better than me what is said than done. - It is true
that I know, not better, but, on the traces, as well as you, and yet,
I insist on the question, leaving us eventually more or less possible
or probable and placing in the real and positive and practicable .

And so I ask again: today, this minute,
as you are, as you think and feel, which of the above suitors choose?

Which of these do you
think, today, right now, I'd be happier having you for a husband?
- But, my heavenly Mother!

... Look who is the subject of this
man of Satan!

How am I to tell me these things? - As others
say, Lituca ... - Well, I told endenantes, and perfectly clear. - And
answered perfectly clear to you that it was impossible to ask. -
For that reason I ask ... That same desire now. - I do not agree
that response to my question.

There was now living as you live, and here it is live otherwise
very different. - Then call it hache, yet with it. - I can not I
call it. - And come on, Jesus is Lord, to the rattle!

How can any soul of God, that you tell? - In Castilian current ... by
law ... no escape lanes. - Lifetime !...-- and here he made a grimace
of impatience of most magicians I've seen a woman, and even gave two
slaps on her lap, and then, straightening and stiffening the cunning
head slightly voice and gesture, he said -: "And in sum and discharge,
what obligation do I have to declare it, nor does it matter to the
Nah, you know?

I pretended to take seriously and as a hard lesson these words and
only replied to them to forgive my boldness ... Then let the rogue
other laugh, and said in a tone that showed the largest casual desire,
if by chance I was really annoyed me: - So now that the shock to punish
the mischief, for mischief is, and large, the coaxing a woman who
never had thoughts ... But Tochon on me - suddenly exclaimed ruefully
clasping his hands and the face -.



Hippolyta's fortune was in a complicated state, which made her settlements long in being made
out; and as Eustace did not wish to turn me out till the wedding, I had time to wait to ascertain
what Harold would like me to do.  I hoped that Dora was so inconvenient an appendage that I
should be allowed to keep her, but I found that Hippolyta had designs on her--saying, truly
enough, that she could neither write nor spell and knew not a word of any language.  "Poor
Lucy Alison, what could be expected of her!"  So Dora was to go to the married cousins in London,
who, by thus taking her in, would be enabled to have a superior governess for their own tribe.
Poor Dora! how fiercely she showed her love for me all those weeks of reprieve, and how hard
I laboured to impress upon her that her intended system of defiance to the whole Horsman family
was not, by any means, such a proof of affection as either Harry or I should relish. (N. of E.) [32] Christmas child, celebrated the night of December
7, the day before the Feast of the Conception of the Holy Catholic
Church, a popular feast day.

(N. of E.) [33] Artillery Maestranza de la Habana.

Situated behind the Palace of Administration, this was a correctional
institution for slaves who were deemed rebellious by written order
of their masters.

The most common form of punishment was whipping and this often went on for two or three days.
 (a title that most supposed
to be entirely unfounded) made a greater profit by selling the necessaries of life to the diggers,
than did his son by gold-digging and washing.

Poor Alice, the stately farmhouse beauty of thirty years ago, was a stooping, haggard, broken-down
wreck--not a slattern, but an overworked drudge, with a face fitter for seventy than for fifty
years old, and a ghastly look of long-continued sickness. His voice became laced with mocking laughter.

"It's funny- thought Don Acisclo.

What will be lifted now with his father twelve or thirteen years dead,
and she so far out of season."

In this, Dona Luz finished
reading the letter.