There is nothing in this atmospheric environment of ours that is not endowed with intelligence.
Everyone who postulates a first cause begins with the universal intelligence. This intelligence
is given to us as a beginning, it remains with us to the end.

The acceptation of the truth of the unity of intelligence is the first step toward investigation.
All finite life is an embodiment of universal substance and intelligence in some form--this
is truth.

Physical scientists everywhere are showing us the infinitesimal lives working continually and
in ways that are wonderful.

Psychologists are opening daily the hidden chambers of this physical and metaphysical world,
and giving us high lights on what we once thought impossible of investigation; they are showing
us astounding examples of conscious ideation in every order of life, and are aiding us to draw
interesting conclusions.

There is a great universal intelligence and a remote finite expression of this intelligence;
the lesser is always dependent upon the greater and our human life becomes the microcosmic
pattern of the macrocosmic world.

With this premise firmly under our feet let us go on to the question of the intelligence of
the physical tissues of the human body, and our relation to disease, health, poverty and opulence.

Every cell of our physical body is intelligent and capable of being instructed into finer grades
of expression; this is the process by which we refine matter into spirit and by which we pass
from a lower to a higher expression of wholeness and build our cells into a grade of consciousness
so high that we produce objective expressions of such perfect response that we become the higher
revelation of the cosmic consciousness.

The higher we go in intellectualizing ourselves, the closer we draw to the cosmic consciousness,
and the more familiar we become with its laws. The highest life is the one that includes the most.

It is a natural law that we have at all times unconscious thought relation to the universal
abundance and our thoughts are the conscious agents of construction and destruction, and we
work through them as soon as we are old enough to think and reason.

Disease and poverty would never manifest for us if we did not some time recognize it in our
atmospheric environment with our thoughts, and work it out on the objective plane through the
law of atomic attraction.

Whenever doubt, worry, anger and negative thoughts take possession of our field of consciousness
(the everyday mind), we are creating these things for ourselves in the cosmic currents and
they cannot refuse to register in form either in our body or in our environment.

It can be seen that if, year after year, we separate ourselves from the positive creative cosmic
intelligence, and put up our images of personal limitation, the creative intelligence is joined
to the weaker energy and cannot refuse to work out the conditions with which they are related.

The human mind is the agent which must be taught to stand as sentinel and force our minds to
people our currents with thoughts which make only for the perfect health, perpetual opulence
and divine realizations.

The minor intelligence of our cells would just as readily work out the universal law of perfection
if we only knew enough to intelligently direct them and not overpower them by our negative
personal directions.

When we have once established in our minds the truth of this universal cosmic intelligence,
in which there is no sickness, poverty or death, unless we recognize it, it does not take us
long to work out better conditions for ourselves in the physical body and environment.

No matter what our lack may be, we can know that it is because we have set our human thought
to work under a personal negative law instead of a positive creative universal one. We have
only to stop, face about, and begin to direct our thoughts intelligently, and in union with
the higher plan, and solicit co-operation with all the finite forces around us.

If we find ourselves diseased, with pain, and physical mal-positions we can speak to our physical
cells as we would to a friend and connect them with the higher creative currents and help them
to get into a higher form of building; they are ready at any moment to answer, "The sheep know
their shepherd's voice and obey it." They must begin to build in the new likeness and in the
very moment that we consciously direct them; this is the law, there is no appeal from it.

Everything comes to us from the Infinite atomic ethers through the law of Divine attraction,
and when we have built and rebuilt our cells into an intelligent relationship with absolute
wholeness, we become a magnet, so highly sensitized and so magnetic and carefully polarized,
that we are an attracting center for everything in our atmospheric environment, and our physical
body and our environment become the expression of our thought world.

When we know enough to send our thoughts into the universal energy with only the recognitions
of positive creations, such as health, wealth, love, divine realization and actualization,
then our material world must be made the immediate reproduction of these things.

The sick world passes along with all its thoughts poised in the destructive recognition; we
meet them upon this pathway, and knowing the law of the higher constructive power of building
we must meet their questioning with some answer that will restore them to the state of consciousness
they have lost.

The very first truth that every sick life must know is that thoughts are things, and make themselves
felt in form, and that in the great atmospheric energy, like attracts like. Our consciousness
becomes for us the wireless stations which attract and register the universal messages, and
each station attracts its own from whatever plane or state of consciousness it vibrates.

The invisible world is something and its substance is something, and that we do not understand
it and have improper correspondence, is no proof that the power of correct correspondence does
not exist.

There are great occult laws of relationship always awaiting our deepening comprehension:

  "Till one appears who bears,
   All nature silent is,
   Silent for evermore,
   Beating its waves of force
   On an unanswering shore
   Till one appears who bears."

The cosmic atmospheric energy in which we live, move and have our being is always ready to
become manifested in form, and may become manifested by anyone who knows how to create a form
for himself.

It has been manifested in many varied forms by the children of men, but it has not yet entered
into the hearts of men to conceive of the glories that are yet awaiting them when one appears
who really does hear, and knows the full truths of cosmic power.

This is the secret of Cosmic Therapeutics, and those who know this secret really do become
the twentieth century mystics and are rulers over the manifestations of finite and infinite
energy. When we come to this point of demonstration we are the world's greatest physicians.
With this knowledge we may conquer not only disease and poverty and despair, but we may overcome
the last enemy--Death, and live and have being in a world of universal power.

There are grades and grades of intelligence both in the human and the Absolute mind: All grades
of cosmic currents are ever ready waiting to respond to those who touch them; there is nothing
mysterious or unattainable about them; they are the natural results of natural laws, and we
come into union with them through growth and recognition.

We first come to a consciousness of our universal, atmospheric relationship with all that is,
then we learn to understand the response that comes to us from every person and everything;
then we reach out in perfect faith with our deep of need, calling to the deep of supply, and
the doors of a thousand hidden chambers of nature open bringing divine revelation into our souls.

Absent Treatments

The sick world has always had its scientific and religious investigation, and in addition to
this new-found power of atmospheric creation there is another great truth which the sick world
must know in order to make its own union, and this is the truth of the power to manipulate
these Cosmic currents not only of our own creation, but for anyone who touches our life; we
cannot only think and realize and actualize for ourselves, but we can reach out into the formless
energy and create, direct and control these great universal currents so that they will have
the power to rebuild another's life.

We have a great psychological Cosmic truth known as "absent treatments" but which is really
COSMIC THERAPEUTICS in our new understanding; we use cosmic currents to heal ourselves and
we manipulate them for another thereby eliminating time and distance; we get behind the things
created and understand and deal with the Energy which creates.

The sick world has tried all the things of the physical world through the medium of objective
lines of transference--drugs, electricity, diet, baths and what not, each one a part of the
cosmic consciousness, but it finds that the laws still exist, and as long as they remain related
with the laws of disease in flesh it will manifest for them in flesh.

Absent treatments is the power to connect with and direct the Cosmic atmospheric currents which
make for positive expression of health, and when we have laid hold of this power, we can change
at will any vibration of negativeness with which we find ourself or others expressing, and
we do it through the power of thought, feeling and revelation.

These higher laws of relationship are only mysterious and strange to those who do not understand;
the Hottentot stands in wonder and amazement at the X-ray machine, but the skilled operator
turns on its power in spite of this ignorance and disbelief, and it works whether he believes
it or not. Just so the skillful operator in Cosmic Therapeutics can generate, control and direct
the power of the Cosmic consciousness which he understands, and it brings its results whether
the skeptical mind of man accepts or denies.

This power to manipulate nature's finer forces is only hidden from those who do not seek to
find; in the moment a soul knows that it is possible to connect through thought and to manipulate
through consciousness, it is born into union with the Energy that creates and can say, "Let
there be light" over its own world.

We can stand in the great Cosmic Energy and with tools a thousand times finer than the finest
X-ray or vibratory machine known to science and project our thought power into regions of an
ether so fine, so vibrant, so vital that the very touch of them upon our being fills us with
the great pulsing energy of the universe. In just the instant we connect with these currents
our old vibratory rates of living are changed and we have passed from death into life; we are
healed to stay healed through conscious union with the ALL-HEALTH currents of the Universe.

There are many clumsy operators in any field of science, and there are plenty of them in this
new world of Cosmic Therapeutics, but investigation and application give unfoldment and skill,
and we will soon pass into such a complete understanding of these higher laws of being that
it will be a novelty to find a life unacquainted with them, and everyone will be using Cosmic
Therapeutics in some degree.

The fundamental law of absent treatments is the truth of the Oneness of life and intelligence,
and the ready response of the Absolute intelligence to the finite mind.

Each life has its own direct line of thought connection with this Universal Energy, and no
matter where it stands in its comprehension, it can be taught to understand this simple truth
of thought relationship.

We can think ourselves to the outermost rim of things and there connect with the diverse differentiated
energy which can only make for disease and lack, or we can think ourselves to the very center
of the Cosmic heart and find there the "peace that passeth understanding." We find this center
and attract its energy through human thoughts of power, love, hope, faith, joy, purity, patience
and consciousness of infinite union, and our every action carries with it into the external
world a power that manifests for us as health in our body and wealth in our environment.

When we know that all life is universal atmospheric intelligence and that it responds to us
from any point we touch it, we need then only to throw ourselves into conscious thought union
with everything which we desire; forgetting all the weak negative things we do not desire,
and this conscious connection leads us into relation with the energy that must eventually manifest
in form.

If we want to heal ourselves we stand with our whole life open to the positive creative Cosmic
currents and let them beat through us and around us; we WILL then and there to pass our whole
being into union with every creative universal force, and to feel the power of its energy sweeping
through us; we hold our life to this higher understanding until the great flood tide of the
universe comes sweeping along our veins and through our being, washing away in its resistless
force all the lesser moorings which hold us to the thoughts of disease or decay; we have then
the life more abundantly than is promised and we feel that we have entered into that place
that is prepared for the people of GOD; we are healed to stay healed for the very life blood
of the universe is in our veins.

If we then want to give an absent treatment, and send to another this Energy that creates we
just take the thoughts of our Cosmic atmospheric relationship in our mind, and reaching out
first in perfect thinking we build for them a perfect thought body, and place it in the Cosmic
Energy; holding fast to this image we pass with it into the deeper states of being where thinking
ceases, and KNOWING is the law, and we bid them stand forth with us in conscious union whole,
complete, the God-child, one with the ALL-HEALTH of the Universe.

When we can do this, our work is finished, and we can let them go, secure in the consciousness
that they are one with us in strength and power. When we have really understood this higher
law of recognition we look with all-seeing eyes into the face of Cosmic Intelligence, and we
see the infinite supply answering our finite lack, we abide in a position of knowing which
passes us externally into health of body and environment.

How to Give Absent Treatment

Concentrate your mind on the one whom you wish to heal, then build a mental vision of him;
see him in consciousness just as whole and perfect as if he was really radiant with health.
Make believe that he is standing before you a perfect picture of physical perfection, work
on your vision until you can produce and hold the most beautiful idealized picture of human
beauty of flesh, form and character. Never forget to illumine your perfect thought-patient
with a divine light of spiritual radiance. This perfected "make-believe-self" must be the risen
God within them and it must come forth resplendent in a new glory. When you can hold a perfect
vision of him and make yourself blind to anything but this image of beauty, health and power--then
place him in the Divine Life and leave him. God, the great universal intelligence, will make
the balance good. He will finish what you have begun. There is concerted action between the
atomic mind of infinite substance and the mind of man, "and as the Father raiseth up the dead
and quickeneth them, so has he given the son the power to quicken whom He will."

This vision held daily and intensified by belief and conscious command will be accepted by
the spiritual consciousness of the patient and whether his surface mind accept it or not, his
deeper consciousness gives the stimulation to his body and this registers it in form and he
is healed to stay healed through the silent laws of mind. "And he stood between the living
and the dead and the plague was stayed" because by his own transcendent consciousness he set
in operation the higher laws of intelligence in substance.

It is written that in the Psychological Institute in France, Professor Prisbram, in one of
his psychological experiments, asked a patient to think powerfully and concentratedly upon
a make-believe vision of a bottle--he did, with his hand on a sensitive plate in a developing
fluid, and slowly the picture of the bottle registered upon the plate.

Just as this make-believe bottle registered upon the plate, just so does the make-believe perfect
flesh-body register in the cells of the old, and under the law of renewal of tissue, it is
developed into form. This vision is the true self that is latent in every life. "The first
man, Adam, was of the earth, earthy, the last man, Adam, was a living soul." "There is a body
terrestrial and there is a body celestial, and the glory of the terrestrial is one and the
glory of the celestial is another." And with the vision of the celestial body, in which the
consciousness vibrates as a living soul, our treatment is accomplished and we have made our
mind a conscious part of the mighty plan and we can ask whatsoever we will and it will be granted.

How often shall we treat an absent patient?

Three times daily and between these times forget them utterly, give them to the Cosmic forces,
the Absolute. Holding on to a patient in thought often delays his recovery. When you have done
your spiritual visualizing powerfully and perfectly, stop! The Universal Law will do the rest;
never give an anxious thought to them, nor recognize death; vibrate life and more and more
life to them and just as the current runs along the wire just so this silent Cosmic intelligence
will flow from you to them, and health will come, sometimes slowly, sometimes quickly, back
along their veins.