The old man caught his breath with a choking sob. He was clinging to Montague like a frightened
child, and staring with a wild, hunted look upon his face. Montague sat transfixed.

"Yes," the other rushed on, "that's the truth, as God hears me! And it's the first time I've
ever spoken it in my life! I have to hide it--because men would laugh at me--they pretend they're
not afraid! But I lie awake all night, and it's like a fiend that sits by my bedside! I lie
and listen to my own heart--I feel it beating, and I think how weak it is, and what thin walls
it has, and what a wretched, helpless thing it is to have your life depend on that!--You don't
know what that is, I suppose."

Montague shook his head.

"You're young, you see," said the other. "You have health--everybody has health, except me!
And everybody hates me--I haven't got a friend in the world!"

Montague was quite taken aback by the suddenness of this outburst. He tried to stop it, for
he felt almost indecent in listening--it was not fair to take a man off his guard like this.
But the stranger could not be stopped--he was completely unstrung, and his voice grew louder
and louder.

"It's every word of it true," he exclaimed wildly. "And I can't stand it any more. I can't
stand anything any more. I was young and strong once--I could take care of myself; and I said:
I'll make money, I'll be master of other men! But I was a fool--I forgot my health. And now
all the money on earth can't do me any good! I'd give ten million dollars to-day for a body
like any other man's--and this--this is what I have!"

He struck his hands against his bosom. "Look at it!" he cried, hysterically. "This is what
I've got to live in! It won't digest any food, and I can't keep it warm--there's nothing right
with it! How would you like to lie awake at night and say to yourself that your teeth were
decaying and you couldn't help it--your hair was falling out, and nobody could stop it? You're
old and worn out--falling to pieces; and everybody hates you--everybody's waiting for you to
die, so that they can get you out of the way. The doctors come, and they're all humbugs! They
shake their heads and use long words--they know they can't do you any good, but they want their
big fees! And all they do is to frighten you worse, and make you sicker than ever!"

There was nothing that Montague could do save to sit and listen to this outburst of wretchedness.
His attempts to soothe the old man only had the effect of exciting him more.

"Why does it all have to fall on me?" he moaned. "I want to be like other people--I want to
live! And instead, I'm like a man with a pack of hungry wolves prowling round him--that's what
it's like! It's like Nature--hungry and cruel and savage! You think you know what life is;
it seems so beautiful and gentle and pleasant--that's when you're on top! But now I'm down,
and I KNOW what it is--it's a thing like a nightmare, that reaches out for you to clutch you
and crush you! And you can't get away from it--you're helpless as a rat in a corner--you're
damned--you're damned!" The miserable man's voice broke in a cry of despair, and he sank down
in a heap in front of Montague, shaking and sobbing. The other was trembling slightly, and
stricken with awe.

There was a long silence, and then the stranger lifted his tear-stained face, and Montague
helped to support him. "Have a little more of the whisky," said he.

"No," the other answered feebly, "I'd better not."

"--My doctors won't let me have whisky," he added, after a while. "That's my liver. I've so
many don'ts, you know, that it takes a note-book to keep track of them. And all of them together
do me no good! Think of it--I have to live on graham crackers and milk--actually, not a thing
has passed my lips for two years but graham crackers and milk."

And then suddenly, with a start, it came to Montague where he had seen this wrinkled old face
before. It was Laura Hegan's uncle, whom the Major had pointed out to him in the dining-room
of the Millionaires' Club! Old Henry S. Grimes, who was really only sixty, but looked eighty;
and who owned slum tenements, and evicted more people in a month than could be crowded into
the club-house!

Montague gave no sign, but sat holding the man in his arms. A little trickle of blood came
from under the handkerchief and ran down his cheek; Montague felt him tremble as he touched
this with his ringer.

"Is it much of a cut?" he asked.

"Not much," said Montague; "two or three stitches, perhaps."

"Send for my family physician," the other added. "If I should faint, or anything, you'll find
his name in my card-case. What's that?"

There was the sound of voices down the road. "Hello!"' Montague shouted; and a moment later
two men in automobile costume came running toward him. They stopped, staring in dismay at the
sight which confronted them.

At Montague's suggestion they made haste to find a log by means of which they lifted the auto
sufficiently to drag out the body of the chauffeur. Montague saw that it was quite cold.

He went back to old Grimes. "Where do you wish to go?" he asked.

The other hesitated. "I was bound for the Harrisons'--" he said.

"The Leslie Harrisons?" asked Montague. (They were people he had met at the Devons'.)

The other noticed his look of recognition. "Do you know them?" he asked.

"I do," said Montague.

"It isn't far," said the old man. "Perhaps I had best go there."--And then he hesitated for
a moment; and catching Montague by the arm, and pulling him toward him, whispered, "Tell me--you-you
won't tell--"

Montague, comprehending what he meant, answered, "It will be between us." At the same time
he felt a new thrill of revulsion for this most miserable old creature.

They lifted him into the car; and because they delayed long enough to lay a blanket over the
body of the chauffeur, he asked peevishly why they did not start. During the ten or fifteen
minutes' trip he sat clinging to Montague, shuddering with fright every time they rounded a
turn in the road.

They reached the Harrisons' place; and the footman who opened the door was startled out of
his studied impassivity by the sight of a big bundle of bearskin in Montague's arms. "Send
for Mrs. Harrison," said Montague, and laid the bundle upon a divan in the hall. "Get a doctor
as quickly as you can," he added to a second attendant.

Mrs. Harrison came. "It's Mr. Grimes," said Montague; and then he heard a frightened exclamation,
and turned and saw Laura Hegan, in a walking costume, fresh from the cold outside.

"What is it?" she cried. And he told her, as quickly as he could, and she ran to help the old
man. Montague stood by, and later carried him upstairs, and waited below until the doctor came.

It was only when he set out for home again that he found time to think about Laura Hegan, and
how beautiful she had looked in her furs. He wondered if it would always be his fate to meet
her under circumstances which left her no time to be aware of his own existence.

At home he told about his adventure, and found himself quite a hero for the rest of the day.
He was obliged to give interviews to several newspaper reporters, and to refuse to let one
of them take his picture. Every one at the Devons' seemed to know old Harry Grimes, and Montague
thought to himself that if the comments of this particular group of people were a fair sample,
the poor wretch was right in saying that he had not a friend in the world.

When he came downstairs the next morning, he found elaborate accounts of the accident in the
papers, and learned that Grimes had nothing worse than a scalp wound and a severe shock. Even
so, he felt it was incumbent upon him to pay a visit of inquiry, and rode over shortly before
lunch.

Laura Hegan came down to see him, wearing a morning gown of white. She confirmed the good news
of the papers, and said that her uncle was resting quietly. (She did not say that his physician
had come post-haste, with two nurses, and taken up his residence in the house, and that the
poor old millionaire was denied even his graham crackers and milk). Instead she said that he
had mentioned Montague's kindness particularly, and asked her to thank him. Montague was cynical
enough to doubt this.

It was the first time that he had ever had any occasion to talk with Miss Hegan. He noticed
her gentle and caressing voice, with the least touch of the South in it; and he was glad to
find that it was possible for her to talk without breaking the spell of her serene and noble
beauty. Montague stayed as long as he had any right to stay.

And all the way as he rode home he was thinking about Laura Hegan. Here for the first time
was a woman whom he felt he should like to know; a woman with reserve and dignity, and some
ideas in her life. And it was impossible for him to know her--because she was rich!

There was no dodging this fact--Montague did not even try. He had met women with fortunes already,
and he knew how they felt about themselves, and how the rest of the world felt about them.
They might wish in their hearts to be something else besides the keepers of a treasure-chest,
but their wishes were futile; the money went with them, and they had to defend it against all
comers. Montague recalled one heiress after another--débutantes, some of them, exquisite and
delicate as butterflies--but under the surface as hard as chain-armour. All their lives they
had been trained to think of themselves as representing money, and of every one who came near
them as adventurers seeking money. In every word they uttered, in every glance and motion,
one might read this meaning. And then he thought of Laura Hegan, with the fortune she would
inherit; and he pictured what her life must be--the toadies and parasites and flatterers who
would lay siege to her--the scheming mammas and the affectionate sisters and cousins who would
plot to gain her confidence! For a man who was poor, and who meant to keep his self-respect,
was there any possible conclusion except that she was entirely unknowable to him?

CHAPTER XVI

Montague came back to the city, and dug into his books again; while Alice gave her spare hours
to watching the progress of the new gown in which she was to uphold the honour of the family
at Mrs. Devon's opening ball. The great event was due in the next week and Society was as much
excited about it as a family of children before Christmas. All whom Montague met were invited
and all were going unless they happened to be in mourning. Their gossip was all of the disappointed
ones, and their bitterness and heartburning.

Mrs. Devon's mansion was thrown open early on the eventful evening, but few would come until
midnight. It was the fashion to attend the Opera first, and previous to that half a dozen people
would give big dinners. He was a fortunate person who did not hear from his liver after this
occasion; for at one o'clock came Mrs. Devon's massive supper, and then again at four o'clock
another supper. To prepare these repasts a dozen extra chefs had been imported into the Devon
establishment for a week--for it was part of the great lady's pride to permit no outside caterer
to prepare anything for her guests.

