I had accompanied Mr. Horne to the Rhine; and we had reached Brussels on our return, just at
the close of that revolution which ended in affording a throne to the son-in-law of George
the Fourth. At that moment General Chasse's name and fame were in every man's mouth, and, like
other curious admirers of the brave, Mr. Horne determined to devote two days to the scene of
the late events at Antwerp.  Antwerp, moreover, possesses perhaps the finest spire, and certainly
one of the three or four finest pictures, in the world. Of General Chasse, of the cathedral,
and of the Rubens, I had heard much, and was therefore well pleased that such should be his
resolution.  This accomplished we were to return to Brussels; and thence, via Ghent, Ostend,
and Dover, I to complete my legal studies in London, and Mr. Horne to enjoy once more the peaceful
retirement of Ollerton rectory.  As we were to be absent from Brussels but one night we were
enabled to indulge in the gratification of travelling without our luggage.  A small sac-de-nuit
was prepared; brushes, combs, razors, strops, a change of linen, &c. &c., were carefully put
up; but our heavy baggage, our coats, waistcoats, and other wearing apparel were unnecessary.
It was delightful to feel oneself so light-handed.  The reverend gentleman, with my humble
self by his side, left the portal of the Hotel de Belle Vue at 7 a.m., in good humour with
all the world.  There were no railroads in those days; but a cabriolet, big enough to hold
six persons, with rope traces and corresponding appendages, deposited us at the Golden Fleece
in something less than six hours.  The inward man was duly fortified, and we started for the
castle.

It boots not here to describe the effects which gunpowder and grape- shot had had on the walls
of Antwerp.  Let the curious in these matters read the horrors of the siege of Troy, or the
history of Jerusalem taken by Titus.  The one may be found in Homer, and the other in Josephus.
Or if they prefer doings of a later date there is the taking of Sebastopol, as narrated in
the columns of the "Times" newspaper.  The accounts are equally true, instructive, and intelligible.
In the mean time allow the Rev. Augustus Horne and myself to enter the private chambers of
the renowned though defeated general.

We rambled for a while through the covered way, over the glacis and along the counterscarp,
and listened to the guide as he detailed to us, in already accustomed words, how the siege
had gone.  Then we got into the private apartments of the general, and, having dexterously
shaken off our attendant, wandered at large among the deserted rooms.

"It is clear that no one ever comes here," said I.

"No," said the Rev. Augustus; "it seems not; and to tell the truth, I don't know why any one
should come.  The chambers in themselves are not attractive."

What he said was true.  They were plain, ugly, square, unfurnished rooms, here a big one, and
there a little one, as is usual in most houses;--unfurnished, that is, for the most part. 
In one place we did find a table and a few chairs, in another a bedstead, and so on. But to
me it was pleasant to indulge in those ruminations which any traces of the great or unfortunate
create in softly sympathising minds.  For a time we communicated our thoughts to each other
as we roamed free as air through the apartments; and then I lingered for a few moments behind,
while Mr. Horne moved on with a quicker step.

At last I entered the bedchamber of the general, and there I overtook my friend.  He was inspecting,
with much attention, an article of the great man's wardrobe which he held in his hand.  It
was precisely that virile habiliment to which a well-known gallant captain alludes in his conversation
with the posthumous appearance of Miss Bailey, as containing a Bank of England 5 pound note.

"The general must have been a large man, George, or he would hardly have filled these," said
Mr. Horne, holding up to the light the respectable leathern articles in question.  "He must
have been a very large man,--the largest man in Antwerp, I should think; or else his tailor
has done him more than justice."

They were certainly large, and had about them a charming regimental military appearance.  They
were made of white leather, with bright metal buttons at the knees and bright metal buttons
at the top. They owned no pockets, and were, with the exception of the legitimate outlet, continuous
in the circumference of the waistband. No dangling strings gave them an appearance of senile
imbecility. Were it not for a certain rigidity, sternness, and mental inflexibility,--we will
call it military ardour,--with which they were imbued, they would have created envy in the
bosom of a fox- hunter. There we found a keeper in uniform of the Swiss of Louis
XVI, securing with much aplomb to three English ladies he had fought like a lion in the usual
day of August 10, escaped by a miracle. Although the illustrious fighter having stated no more
than sixty years, and was very knowledgeable in point of French geography, that did not prevent
a serious citizen "perfidious Albion" were eagerly collecting the reminiscences of the Swiss
and carefully writing them a portfolio of travel, as news of the first order.

If the naive credulity of the island made us smile, I confess I did not understand the pride
that the citizens of Lucerne maintain this strange monument, which to my eyes was but a pattern
of infamy, or at least a sad reminiscence. Instead of devoting monuments to the memory of the degradation
of the noble and free people of Switzerland, citizens the Confederation should make every effort
to condemn to oblivion the flamboyant mercenary which for centuries has made Switzerland a hotbed of
soldiers of the most odious tyranny and the most corrupt and corrupting governments. If in the
last ten years has Swiss mercenaries seen looting Peruza, as soldiers of the Pope and defending
atrocities the cause of the Bourbons of Naples, it must be remembered also, in honor of radicalism
Swiss, the assemblies and the government of the Confederation have taken action at this time strong
to end the mercenaries. Thanks to the incomparable Garibaldi and to Gialdini and other general Italian,
Swiss soldiers have disappeared from southern Italy; and between the major results of the Italian
revolution will not be one of the less significant the replacement of the heroic and selfless
volunteer (an instrument of emancipation and symbol the brotherhood of the people) instead of
a mercenary from another era, an instrument of oppression and a symbol of human degradation.

*
* * * *

       Lucerne, mainly Catholic city, has about 11.500 inhabitants, which
in 1857 only 317 were Protestants.

Thanks to steam navigation of the lake, in relation to the road leading to Italy by the Saint-Gothard,
and the recent railroad that has been rapid communication with Bern and railways in western
and northern Switzerland, Lucerne begins to have considerable commercial importance, though
perhaps partly lose it when Italy and Switzerland have direct and prompt communication. Lucerne industry
is reduced to some tissues cotton, flax and hemp and articles of hosiery, and factories are very
subordinate. Produce also straw hats and other items of little importance. For the rest, Lucerne
is faithful general thought (the result of the emulation system that generates the federal independence)
that inspires so careful to the Swiss interest in training establishments and charities. The isolation
of nature had been to the Swiss villages, before the invention modern industry in the field
of communications, had made them understand that they should Take full force themselves. Therefore, it
has been so deep and general feeling in Switzerland fraternity, which is manifested in the numerous
hospitals, hospices and other facilities similar. As to the education, emulation, on the one
hand, sustained for autonomy social policy and the cantons, and second, the progress of democratic ideas
and institutions after 1798, and 1848 in particular, have favored the multiplication of institutions
intended to propagate the knowledge of all kinds in the masses.

I will note here, subject to subsequent observations, some curious contrasts that attentive
traveler easily seen in the cities of Switzerland.

In no country are so appropriate comparisons as in Switzerland, where a small but highly varied
territory coexist Confederate several very different races, with different religions, practices,
arts, and institutions very different. Without wishing in any way infer general rules in favor
or against any religion, I can say that without any notable exception, I have observed in all
cities Switzerland a clear contrast with respect to the mercenary, the messiness, the situation
of the establishments and customs, and public instruction of the masses. The Protestant cantons
supplied to an insignificant number of despots, as mercenaries, the vast Most or almost all of these ever
left the Catholic cantons.
  They were held up as though in wonder at that which the red-nosed
holder of the scissors had dared to do.

Opposite to this lady, and with her face fully tamed to me, was a kindly-looking, fat motherly
woman, with light-coloured hair, not in the best order.  She was hot and scarlet with exercise,
being perhaps too stout for the steep steps of the fortress; and in one hand she held a handkerchief,
with which from time to time she wiped her brow.  In the other hand she held one of the extremities
of my friend's property, feeling--good, careful soul!--what was the texture of the cloth. 
As she did so, I could see a glance of approbation pass across her warm features.  I liked
that lady's face, in spite of her untidy hair, and felt that had she been alone my friend would
not have been injured.

On either side of her there stood a flaxen-haired maiden, with long curls, large blue eyes,
fresh red cheeks, an undefined lumpy nose, and large good-humoured mouth.  They were as like
as two peas, only that one was half an inch taller than the other; and there was no difficulty
in discovering, at a moment's glance, that they were the children of that over-heated matron
who was feeling the web of my friend's cloth.

But the principal figure was she who held the centre place in the group.  She was tall and
thin, with fierce-looking eyes, rendered more fierce by the spectacles which she wore; with
a red nose as I said before; and about her an undescribable something which quite convinced
me that she had never known--could never know--aught of the comforts of married life. The humble HOWEVER canton is superior to another ten cantons, as to the extension territorial,
measuring an area of ​​1.092 square kilometers, taking in the extra length (From south to north) 25
miles, and its greatest width 43.  I immediately
conceived a deep hatred for that Queen of the Harpies.

"Well, I suppose they can't be wanted again," said the mother, rubbing her forehead.

