"Upon my honour, I am greatly obliged to my friends for their good opinion!"

"Now do not, if you can help it, snort, and stare, and snuff the wind, and look so exceedingly
like a startled horse--There's no such offence as you suppose--you are not charged with any
petty larceny or vulgar felony--by no means. This fellow was carrying money from Government,
both specie and bills, to pay the troops in the north; and it is said he has been also robbed
of some despatches of great consequence."

"And so it is high treason, then, and not simple robbery, of which I am accused!"

"Certainly--which, you know, has been in all ages accounted the crime of a gentleman. You will
find plenty in this country, and one not far from your elbow, who think it a merit to distress
the Hanoverian government by every means possible."

"Neither my politics nor my morals, Miss Vernon, are of a description so accommodating."

"I really begin to believe that you are a Presbyterian and Hanoverian in good earnest. But
what do you propose to do?"

"Instantly to refute this atrocious calumny.--Before whom," I asked, "was this extraordinary
accusation laid."

"Before old Squire Inglewood, who had sufficient unwillingness to receive it. He sent tidings
to my uncle, I suppose, that he might smuggle you away into Scotland, out of reach of the warrant.
But my uncle is sensible that his religion and old predilections render him obnoxious to Government,
and that, were he caught playing booty, he would be disarmed, and probably dismounted (which
would be the worse evil of the two), as a Jacobite, papist, and suspected person."*

* On occasions of public alarm, in the beginning of the eighteenth century, the horses of the
Catholics were often seized upon, as they were always supposed to be on the eve of rising in
rebellion.

"I can conceive that, sooner than lose his hunters, he would give up his nephew."

"His nephew, nieces, sons--daughters, if he had them, and whole generation," said Diana;--"therefore
trust not to him, even for a single moment, but make the best of your way before they can serve
the warrant."

"That I shall certainly do; but it shall be to the house of this Squire Inglewood--Which way
does it lie?"

"About five miles off, in the low ground, behind yonder plantations--you may see the tower
of the clock-house."

"I will be there in a few minutes," said I, putting my horse in motion.

"And I will go with you, and show you the way," said Diana, putting her palfrey also to the trot.

"Do not think of it, Miss Vernon," I replied. "It is not--permit me the freedom of a friend--it
is not proper, scarcely even delicate, in you to go with me on such an errand as I am now upon."

"I understand your meaning," said Miss Vernon, a slight blush crossing her haughty brow;--"it
is plainly spoken;" and after a moment's pause she added, "and I believe kindly meant."

"It is indeed, Miss Vernon. Can you think me insensible of the interest you show me, or ungrateful
for it?" said I, with even more earnestness than I could have wished to express. "Yours is
meant for true kindness, shown best at the hour of need. But I must not, for your own sake--for
the chance of misconstruction--suffer you to pursue the dictates of your generosity; this is
so public an occasion--it is almost like venturing into an open court of justice."

"And if it were not almost, but altogether entering into an open court of justice, do you think
I would not go there if I thought it right, and wished to protect a friend? You have no one
to stand by you--you are a stranger; and here, in the outskirts of the kingdom, country justices
do odd things. My uncle has no desire to embroil himself in your affair; Rashleigh is absent,
and were he here, there is no knowing which side he might take; the rest are all more stupid
and brutal one than another. I will go with you, and I do not fear being able to serve you.
I am no fine lady, to be terrified to death with law-books, hard words, or big wigs."

"But my dear Miss Vernon"--

"But my dear Mr. Francis, be patient and quiet, and let me take my own way; for when I take
the bit between my teeth, there is no bridle will stop me."

Flattered with the interest so lovely a creature seemed to take in my fate, yet vexed at the
ridiculous appearance I should make, by carrying a girl of eighteen along with me as an advocate,
and seriously concerned for the misconstruction to which her motives might be exposed, I endeavoured
to combat her resolution to accompany me to Squire Inglewood's. The self-willed girl told me
roundly, that my dissuasions were absolutely in vain; that she was a true Vernon, whom no consideration,
not even that of being able to do but little to assist him, should induce to abandon a friend
in distress; and that all I could say on the subject might be very well for pretty, well-educated,
well-behaved misses from a town boarding-school, but did not apply to her, who was accustomed
to mind nobody's opinion but her own.

