The second great defect in our economic order, from the point of view of coöperation, has been
the inequality of its distribution. This has been due largely to competition when parties were
unequal, not merely in their ability, but in their opportunity. And the most serious, though
not the most apparent, aspect of this inequality, has not been that some have more comfort
or luxuries to enjoy; it is the fact that wealth means power. In so far as it can set prices
on all that we eat, wear, and enjoy, it is controlling the intimate affairs of life more thoroughly
than any government ever attempted. In so far as it controls natural resources, means of transportation,
organization of credit, and the capital necessary for large-scale manufacturing and marketing,
it can set prices. The great questions then are, as with political power: How can this great
power be coöperatively used? Is it serving all or a few?

Two notable doctrines of the courts point ways for ethics. The first is that of property affected
with public interest. Applied thus far by the courts to warehouses, transportation, and similar
public services, what limits can we set ethically to the doctrine that power of one man over
his fellows, whether through his office, or through his property, is affected with public interest?

The police power, which sets the welfare of all above private property when these conflict,
is a second doctrine whose ethical import far outruns its legal applications.

Yet it is by neither of these that the most significant progress has been made toward removing
that handicap of inequality which is the chief injustice of our economic system. It is by our
great educational system, liberal in its provisions, generously supported by all classes, unselfishly
served, opening to all doors of opportunity which once were closed to the many, the most successful
department of our democratic institutions in helping and gaining confidence of all--a system
of which this University of California is one of the most notable leaders and the most useful
members--that fair conditions for competition and intelligent coöperation in the economic world
are increasingly possible.

V

What bearing has this sketch of the significance and progress of coöperation upon the international
questions which now overshadow all else? Certainly the world cannot remain as before: great
powers struggling for empire; lesser powers struggling for their separate existence; great
areas of backward peoples viewed as subjects for exploitation; we ourselves aloof.

It is not necessary to discuss in this country the principle of dominance and world empire.
It contradicts our whole philosophy. Safety for dominance lies only in a civilization of discipline
from above down, in ruthless repression of all thinking on the part of the subject class or race.

Nor can I see any genuine alternative in what some advocate--reliance by each nation on its
own military strength as the sole effective guarantee for its interests. After the military
lessons of this war, the concentration of scientific, economic, and even educational attention
upon military purposes would almost inevitably be vastly in excess of anything previously conceived.
What limits can be set to the armies of France and Great Britain if these are to protect those
countries from a German empire already double its previous extent, and taking steps to control
the resources of eastern Europe and the near East? What navy could guarantee German commerce
against the combined forces of Great Britain and the United States? What limits to the frightfulness
yet to be discovered by chemist and bacteriologist? What guarantee against the insidious growth
of a militarist attitude even in democratically minded peoples if the constant terror of war
exalts military preparations to the supreme place? Something has changed the Germany of other
days which many of us loved even while we shrank from its militarist masters. Is it absolutely
certain that nothing can change the spirit of democratic peoples? At any rate, America, which
has experimented on a larger scale with coöperation--political, economic, and religious--than
any other continent, may well assert steadily and insistently that this is the more hopeful
path. It may urge this upon distrustful Europe.

The obstacles to coöperation are:

1. The survival of the principle of dominance, showing itself in desire for political power
and prestige, and in certain conceptions of national honor.

2. The principle of non-social competition, exhibited in part in the political policy of eliminating
weaker peoples, and conspicuously in foreign trade when the use of unfair methods relies upon
national power to back up its exploitation or monopoly.

3. The principle of nationalistic sentiment, itself based on coöperation, on social tradition
and common ideals, but bound up so closely with political sovereignty and antagonisms as to
become exclusive instead of coöperative in its attitude toward other cultures.

The principle of dominance deters from coöperation, not only the people that seeks to dominate,
but peoples that fear to be dominated or to become involved in entangling alliances. Doubtless
a policy of aloofness was long the safe policy for us. We could not trust political liberty
to an alliance with monarchies, even as with equal right some European peoples might distrust
the policies of a republic seemingly controlled by the slavery interest. At the present time
one great power professes itself incredulous of the fairness of any world tribunal; smaller
powers fear the commanding influence of the great; new national groups just struggling to expression
fear that a league of nations would be based on present status and therefore give them no recognition,
or else a measure of recognition conditioned by past injustices rather than by future aspirations
and real desert. All these fears are justified in so far as the principle of dominance is still
potent. The only league that can be trusted by peoples willing to live and let live, is one
that is controlled by a coöperative spirit. And yet who can doubt that this spirit is spreading?
Few governments are now organized on the avowed basis that military power, which embodies the
spirit of dominance, should be superior to civil control, and even with them the principle
of irresponsible rule, despite its reinforcement by military success, is likely to yield to
the spirit of the age when once the pressure of war is removed which now holds former protesters
against militarism solid in its support. For all powers that are genuine in their desire for
coöperation there is overwhelming reason to try it; for only by the combined strength of those
who accept this principle can liberty and justice be maintained against the aggression of powers
capable of concentrating all their resources with a suddenness and ruthlessness in which dominance
is probably superior.

Yet coöperation for protection of liberty and justice is liable to fall short of humanity's
hopes unless liberty and justice be themselves defined in a coöperative sense. The great liberties
which man has gained, as step by step he has risen from savagery, have not been chiefly the
assertion of already existing powers or the striking-off of fetters forged by his fellows.
They have been additions to previous powers. Science, art, invention, associated life in all
its forms, have opened the windows of his dwelling, have given possibilities to his choice,
have given the dream and the interpretation which have set him free from his prison. The liberty
to which international coöperation points is not merely self-direction or self-determination,
but a larger freedom from fear, a larger freedom from suspicion, a fuller control over nature
and society, a new set of ideas, which will make men free in a far larger degree than ever before.

Similarly justice needs to be coöperatively defined. A justice that looks merely to existing
status will not give lasting peace. Peoples change in needs as truly as they differ in needs.
But no people can be trusted to judge its own needs any more than to judge its own right. A
justice which adheres rigidly to vested interests, and a justice which is based on expanding
interests, are likely to be deadlocked unless a constructive spirit is brought to bear. Abstract
rights to the soil, to trade, to expansion, must be subordinate to the supreme question: How
can peoples live together and help instead of destroy? This can be approached only from an
international point of view.

The second obstacle, unsocial competition, is for trade what dominance is in politics. It prevents
that solution for many of the delicate problems of international life which coöperation through
trade might otherwise afford. Exchange of goods and services by voluntary trade accomplishes
what once seemed attainable only by conquest or slavery. If Germany or Japan or Italy needs
iron or coal; if England needs wheat, or if the United States sugar, it is possible, or should
be possible, to obtain these without owning the country in which are the mines, grain, and
sugar cane. The United States needs Canada's products; it has no desire to own Canada. But
in recent years the exchange of products has been subjected to a new influence. National self-interest
has been added to private self-interest. This has intensified and called out many of the worst
features of antagonism and inequality.

Few in this country have realized the extent to which other countries have organized their
foreign commerce on national lines. We are now becoming informed as to the carefully worked-out
programmes of commercial education, merchant marines, trade agreements, consular service, financial
and moral support from the home government, and mutual aid among various salesmen of the same
nationality living in a foreign country. We are preparing to undertake similar enterprises.
We are reminded that "eighty per cent of the world's people live in the countries bordering
on the Pacific Ocean, and that as a result of the rearrangement of trade routes, San Francisco's
chance of becoming the greatest distributing port of the Pacific for goods en route to the
markets of the Orient, are now more promising than ever before." Can the United States take
part in this commerce in such a way as to help, not hinder, international progress in harmony?
Not unless we remember that commerce may be as predatory as armies, and that we must provide
international guarantees against the exclusive types of competition which we have had to control
by law in our own domestic affairs. An Indian or an African may be deprived of his possessions
quite as effectively by trade as by violence. We need at least as high standards of social
welfare as in domestic commerce. I cannot better present the situation than by quoting from
a recent article by Mr. William Notz in the "Journal of Political Economy" (Feb. 1918):

