One thing that was annoying to our advance was the German "pill boxes" in which machine gunners
were placed. These pill boxes were of concrete. They were round and flat, a few square, and
took their name because of their resemblance to a pill box. They had slits about six inches
wide and eighteen inches long in the concrete through which the Huns fired their machine guns
at our troops. Our most effective weapon against these pill boxes was our one pounders. They
fired a small shell directly at the box and continued to fire until they got the range of the
slit. The shells would then penetrate the slit and hit the other side of the box, exploding
when they did so, and killing or wounding the occupants. Once the range was obtained, our gunners
kept pouring in these shells until there was no longer any fear that the Fritz soldiers in
that box would harm any more Americans. Our boys put many of these pill boxes out of commission
with big loss to the enemy. They made duty in a pill box certain death for the Huns when any
Americans were around.

We spent a rather restless night after our first day's advance. Though we had marched many
miles and were mentally and physically fatigued, it was not easy to sleep. We were in constant
danger of counter attack and of being shelled by the enemy, and the sensation was not pleasant.

Early in the morning of September 13th, the second day of the drive, we advanced again in the
gray of the early dawn. It was between 8 and 9 o'clock on this morning that I saw a great aerial
fight in which probably thirty-five and perhaps forty machines participated. We had advanced
so far the first day that the Germans sent their aircraft out in numbers on the second day
to look at the territory that had been lost. Our men were ready for them. It was the most thrilling
sight I ever witnessed, and I cannot imagine anything more sensational. At first these machines
were very high in the air, perhaps ten thousand feet, for they were mere specks in the sky
to the natural vision. It was wonderful to see them manoeuvering for positions of advantage.
They twisted, turned, looped and dove. At times two or three would be very close together and
then again they would separate. Little white puffs of smoke told the tale that the machine
guns were in action. They reminded me of bees swarming, as they buzzed and circled around each
other in the air. As they fought they descended, coming nearer to earth and thus plainer to
our vision. Suddenly one dropped out of the ranks, a struck machine. We knew it was permanently
out of commission the minute it started to fall, for it dropped like a dead bird. It was a
Hun machine and it dropped close to where I was located, so close in fact that within a few
minutes I was inspecting it and taking small souvenirs to send home from its collapsed wings.
Then another dropped, but it fell far from where we were located and its descent was so swift
that we could not see its insignia and were unable to tell whether or not it was a Hun machine.
Then one came down wounded, but still able to fly. It was an American machine, for it sought
refuge in back of our lines. And so the fight continued for a few minutes--it did not last
long--until a total of eight machines dropped and several others flew away wounded. We reach a certain height we are like
saints in the church facades. Below, are admired for their beauty, viewed closely, a horror
by the ugliness of the stone gnawed by time.
 The Allied
fleet of planes in this fight was composed mostly of Americans, though our airmen were aided
by a couple of British and a couple of French machines.

We continued our advance throughout the second day, though we did not proceed as rapidly as
on the first day. This was because the roads were in poorer condition and supplies could not
be so rapidly moved forward and for the further reason that the country was more wooded and
offered Fritz a better opportunity for defense. Our boys were counter-attacked on several occasions,
but each time they sent the Huns flying to the rear with heavy losses. In hand to hand fighting,
such as often resulted when counter attacks were lodged, the Germans were no match for the
Americans, who seemed to excel in close work which required bravery, skill and dash. In fact,
it was in this kind of work that our boys showed Fritz what we mean in America by "punch."

On the third day we advanced as far as Thiacourt, which was our objective. On this day we also
met with stubborn resistance. It was here that we encountered many pill boxes and it required
considerable difficult and accurate work to put them out of business.

It was on the night of September 15th that we saw our hardest fighting, and were given a taste
of how hard Germans could fight when pressed. It was on this night that our losses were the
heaviest of the drive.

My post was dug in on a ridge that was occupied by a detachment of incomparable fighters--the
Marines. The ridge was only about 500 yards in length. The roads being in bad condition, we
were unable to get the protection of any artillery. All that we had to keep Fritz at bay on
this ridge was about forty machine guns, which were no match for the heavy shells that the
Huns were pouring on us, having our range to a nicety. We were in what is known as "graves,"
or shallow trenches, not having had time to dig deep trenches or to strengthen our positions
as we were constantly under fire. But these Marines laid down a machine gun barrage, the first
that I had ever seen. They kept up the fire all night and thus held Fritz away. It was a tense
period. Hun shells were dropping all around us and frequently right among us, but the machine
guns never ceased their excellent defensive work. When day broke, and the Hun ceased firing,
only seventeen of these machine guns and their crews were in condition to fight. Twenty-three
of them had been destroyed by the German artillery. It was a sad sight that met our eyes the
morning when we saw the losses that we had suffered during the night.

It was on the night of the fourth day of the drive that fresh men were brought up, and those
of us who had been out in front during the drive were relieved. It was, indeed, a great relief.
It permitted us to relax our bodies and minds after four days of steady strain, with no more
food than was sufficient to sustain us and without rest during the entire time. We were grateful
to be away for a short time from the devastating fire that the Huns were pouring into our front
line trenches in an endeavor to check a further penetration into their lines, but we were still
under shell fire.

We were taken a short distance to the rear, where we were billeted in German dugouts. The day
before these had been occupied by German officers. They were elaborately fitted up with all
things necessary for luxury and comfort, such as beds, bathtubs, electric lights, etc.

It was here, seemingly as a reward for my small services in the great fight, that I met my
friend and companion, McKinley Johnston, of Sacramento. Nothing could have pleased me more
for McKinley Johnston is like a brother to me, having been my companion since boyhood. It was
with him that I had talked of enlisting long before I volunteered, and it was he who enlisted
with me. Though we became soldiers together and entered the same company, the fortunes of war
separated us in France, and united us at a moment that was most gratifying to us both. We sat
down together and related our experiences. He was driving a truck, and from him I learned of
remarkable escapes that he had had from death during the four days of the drive. On one occasion
a Hun shell, sufficient in size to have blown him to atoms, lodged in his truck among supplies
and failed to explode. I saw the shell myself, also saw the hole in the top of the truck through
which it passed and can vouch for the truthfulness of the story. On another occasion a shrapnel
shell exploded on the road just to the right of his truck. When it burst, it sent small pieces
of metal flying in all directions. About twenty-five or thirty of these passed through his
truck, but not one struck him. I saw the holes they made. The motor of the truck was not as
fortunate as the driver. A number of the pieces passed through the hood and lodged in the engine.
It was damaged considerably, but it still ran and McKinley was able to complete his trip. I
marveled at these stories because they concerned a young man of whom I am very fond, but escapes
of this kind were numerous in these days and almost every soldier who passed through the drive
can truthfully tell of similar escapes. We were facing death all the time and the remarkable
thing is that so many of us did pass through the drive and come out alive.

CHAPTER VII

Gassed

One of the happiest days that I experienced during the period that I was at war was on Friday,
September 20, 1918. On this day, after having made several visits to our new posts in the front
line, I came back to our billet, where, to my delight and surprise, I found eight letters from
home awaiting me. No one knows the joy that a letter from home gives to a soldier on the firing
line. It is like taking him out of hell and placing him back on earth again. For several days
we had been in the very thickest of the fight, facing death at every minute, seeing our companions
fall around us, doing everything we possibly could to help our side win, and willing to go
back and do it all over again without complaint--and then to get these welcome letters from
dear ones 9,000 miles away right in the midst of it all. Is it any wonder that on such occasions
we frequently gave way to our emotions?

The letters that I received were enjoyed not only by me, but by my companion, McKinley Johnston,
as well, as he knew all of my people and was as familiar as I was with the things that they
wrote about. It is a peculiar circumstance, but it is a fact, nevertheless, that all of the
boys, even those who did not know my folks and who came from other States than California,
were interested in these letters. They were news from home and that is what all the boys were
craving. They wanted to read anything that came from America. So, after reading the letters,
I passed them all around and every boy in the camp read them. After getting the letters back,
I read them over several times. Several of them contained photographs of familiar scenes and
faces, and it seemed good to look upon them again, for no one knew but that it might be the
last time we would see them. I thought it would be a nice thing to sit right down and write,
after reading these letters, but when I attempted it, I was so overcome with emotion caused
by thoughts of those who were near and dear to me, that I was unable to give expression to
my thoughts.

The position of the American troops at this time was not favorable. The enemy held the commanding
ground, and was concealed in woods, while our troops were out in the open. 

Gabriel had acquired in the seminar that hardness church that makes a warrior priest, more attentive
to the interests of the Church that the family's affections. For this is not impressed much with the
death of his father. So on Monday, September 23rd, we gave Fritz a three-hour barrage
and it was a hot one. By the time the barrage started, all our light artillery had been brought
up and put in place, and we were able to rain shells from the famous 75's upon the enemy in
torrents. This barrage was for the purpose of breaking up the morale of the Germans. We were
counter-barraged by the Huns, and for a time they made it hot for us. But our superiority began
to show after about an hour's firing. The men in the Flash Division worked hard to give our
gunners the correct location of the German batteries. We worked hard and fast and the accuracy
of our effort was shown by the silencing of the German guns. One by one they ceased firing,
as the American artillery, with the data we supplied them, dropped shells on the Hun batteries.

It was just about 5:45 in the morning when our artillery ceased firing and our boys advanced
again. This time our objectives were only about two kilometers in back of the German front
trenches. We met with stubborn resistance at first, but with the usual American determination
and pluck, we soon forced the Boche back.

It was here that I first saw the German minnewafers and trench mortars at work. The shells
thrown from the minnewafers are as much feared as any German weapon of war. They are thrown
from a large gun with a smooth bore and short barrel. The projectile is shaped like a rolling
pin, though it is much larger. In each end, or handle of the shell, is a cap, which explodes
as the handle strikes the ground. As the projectile somersaults as it travels, one handle or
the other is sure to hit the earth, so there are no "duds" that I saw among these shells. They
explode with a terrific racket and tear up the earth for a great distance around the spot where
they land. They are not thrown very high in the air, and are intended for use in close fighting,
that is to say, two or three hundred yards. As the shells whirl through the air, you can plainly
hear them whistling, and if you look sharply you can occasionally see them coming. These minnewafers
and mortars are of various ranges--from three and four inches up to twelve and fourteen inches.
Aside from these trench guns, the Germans in this fight also resisted heavily with machine
gun nests and one pounders.

In going over the top this time, we did not have the protection that we did when the St. Mihiel
drive started. In other words, we did not have any tanks or any aerial protection, but had
to advance with only such help as the artillery could give us.

The Germans were well protected and it took clever work to outwit them. Their machine gun nests
were always cleverly concealed. Many of them were concealed in trees, and it was a common sight
to see our infantrymen advance unseen by the machine gunners, and then with their rifles, shoot
them out of the trees. I had seen machine gun nests in trees before, but never so many as this
time. Not only were they numerous, but they were so well provided with ammunition that they
could fire thousands of rounds of shells, if necessary. I have seen long belts of cartridges
hanging to limbs of trees, all ready for use on the part of the gunners. I have also seen many
of these belts attached together so as to provide an almost endless chain of cartridges for
the gun. Under one tree where there had been a nest, I saw empty cartridge shells eight inches
deep, which was some shooting for a short fight such as this was. That machine gun had certainly
done all that could be expected of it.

