DYNEVOR TERRACE:

OR

THE CLUE OF LIFE.

BY

CHARLOTTE M. YONGE.

THE AUTHOR OF 'THE HEIR OF REDCLYFFE'

CONTENTS

      I.  CHARLOTTE.
     II.  AN OLD SCHOOLMISTRESS.
    III.  LOUIS LE DEBONNAIRE.
     IV.  THISTLE-DOWN.
      V.  THE TWO MINISTERS.
     VI.  FAREWELLS.
    VII.  GOSSAMER.
   VIII.  A TRUANT DISPOSITION.
     IX.  THE FAMILY COMPACT.
      X.  THE BETTER PART OF VALOUR.
     XI.  A HALTING PROPOSAL.
    XII.  CHILDE ROLAND.
   XIII.  FROSTY, BUT KINDLY.
    XIV.  NEW INHABITANTS.
     XV.  MOTLEY THE ONLY WEAR.
    XVI.  THE FRUIT OF THE CHRISTMAS-TREE
   XVII.  THE RIVALS.
  XVIII.  REST FOR THE WEARY.
    XIX.  MOONSHINE.
     XX.  THE FANTASTIC VISCOUNT.
    XXI.  THE HERO OF THE BARRICADES.
   XXII.  BURGOMASTERS AND GREAT ONE-EYERS.

VOLUME I

 Who wisdom's sacred prize would win,
 Must with the fear of God begin;
 Immortal praise and heavenly skill
 Have they who know and do His will.
                            New Version.

CHAPTER I.

CHARLOTTE.
                     BP. CORBET.

An ancient leafless stump of a horse-chesnut stood in the middle of a dusty field, bordered
on the south side by a row of houses of some pretension.  Against this stump, a pretty delicate
fair girl of seventeen, whose short lilac sleeves revealed slender white arms, and her tight,
plain cap tresses of flaxen hair that many a beauty might have envied, was banging a cocoa-nut
mat, chanting by way of accompaniment in a sort of cadence--

 'I have found out a gift for my fur,
  I have found where the wood-pigeons breed;
  But let me the plunder forbear,
  She will say--'

'Hollo, I'll give you a shilling for 'em!' was the unlooked-for conclusion, causing her to
start aside with a slight scream, as there stood beside her a stout, black-eyed, round-faced
lad, his ruddy cheeks and loutish air showing more rusticity than agreed with his keen, saucy
expression, and mechanic's dress.

'So that's what you call beating a mat,' said he, catching it from her hands, and mimicking
the tender clasp of her little fingers. 'D'ye think it's alive, that you use it so gingerly?
Look here! Give it him well!' as he made it resound against the tree, and emit a whirlwind
of dust.  'Lay it into him with some jolly good song fit to fetch a stroke home with!  Why,
I heard my young Lord say, when Shakspeare was a butcher, he used to make speeches at the calves,
as if they was for a sacrifice, or ever he could lift a knife to 'em.'

'Shakspeare!  He as wrote Romeo and Juliet, and all that!  He a butcher!  Why, he was a poet!'
cried the girl, indignantly.

'If you know better than Lord Fitzjocelyn, you may!' said the boy.

'I couldn't have thought it!' sighed the maiden.

'It's the best of it!' cried the lad, eagerly.  'Why, Charlotte, don't ye see, he rose hisself.
Anybody may rise hisself as has a mind to it!'

'Yes, I've read that in books said Charlotte.  'You can, men can, Tom, if you would but educate
yourself like Edmund! in the Old English Baron.  But then, you know whose son you are.  There
can't be no catastrophe--'

'I don't want none,' said Tom.  'We are all equal by birth, so the orator proves without a
doubt, and we'll show it one of these days. A rare lady I'll make of you yet, Charlotte Arnold.'

'O hush, Tom, I can never be a lady--and I can't stand dawdling here--nor you neither.  'Tisn't
right to want to be out of our station, though I do wish I lived in an old castle, where the
maidens worked tapestry, and heard minstrels, never had no stairs to scour. Come, give me my
mats, and thank you kindly!'

'I'll take 'em in,' said Tom, shouldering them.  ''Tis breakfast-hour, so I thought I'd just
run up and ax you when my young Lord goes up to Oxford.

'He is gone,' said Charlotte; 'he was here yesterday to take leave of missus. Mr. James goes
later--'

'Gone!' cried Tom.  'If he didn't say he'd come and see me at Mr. Smith's!'

'Did you want to speak to him?'

'I wanted to see him particular.  There's a thing lays heavy on my mind.  You see that place
down in Ferny dell--there's a steep bank down to the water.  Well, my young Lord was very keen
about building a kind of steps there in the summer, and he and I settled the stones, and I
was to cement 'em.  By comes Mr. Frost, and finds faults, what I thought he'd no call to; so
I flings down my trowel, and wouldn't go on for he!  I was so mortal angry, I would not go
back to the work; and I believe my Lord forgot it--and then he went back to college; and Frampton
and Gervas, they put on me, and you know how 'twas I come away from Ormersfield. I was not
going to say a word to one of that lot! but if I could see Lord Fitzjocelyn, I'd tell him they
stones arn't fixed; and if the frost gets into 'em, there'll be a pretty go next time there's
a tolerablish weight!  But there--it is his own look-out!  If he never thought it worth his
while to keep his promise, and come and see me--'

'O Tom! that isn't right!  He only forgot--I hear Mrs. Beckett telling him he'd forget his
own head if it wasn't fixed on, and Mr. James is always at him.'

'Forget!  Aye, there's nothing gentlefolks forget like poor folks. But I've done with he! 
Let him look out--I kept my promises to him long enough, but if he don't keep his'n--'

'For shame, for shame, Tom!  You don't mean it!' cried Charlotte. 'But, oh!' with a different
tone, 'give me the mat! There's the old Lord and Mr. Poynings riding down the terrace!'

'I ain't ashamed of nothing!' said the lad, proudly; and as Charlotte snatched away the mats,
and vanished like a frightened hare, he stalked along like a village Hampden, muttering, 'The
old tyrant shall see whether I'm to be trampled on!' and with both hands in his pockets, he
gazed straight up into the face of the grave elderly gentleman, who never even perceived him.
He could merely bandy glances with Poynings, the groom, and he was so far from indifferent
that he significantly lifted up the end of his whip.  Nothing could more have gratified Tom,
who retorted with a grimace and murmur, 'Don't you wish you may catch me?  You jealous syc--what
is the word, sick of uncles or aunts, was it, that the orator called 'em?  He'd say I'd a good
miss of being one of that sort, and that my young Lord there opened my eyes in time.  No better
than the rest of 'em--'

And the clock striking eight, he quickened his pace to return to his work.  He had for the
two or three previous years been nominally under the gardener at Ormersfield, but really a
sort of follower and favourite to the young heir, Lord Fitzjocelyn--a position which had brought
on him dislike from the superior servants, who were not propitiated by his independent and
insubordinate temper.  Faults on every side had led to his dismissal; but Lord Fitzjocelyn
had placed him at an ironmonger's shop in the town of Northwold, where he had been just long
enough to become accessible to the various temptations of a lad in such a situation.

Charlotte sped hastily round the end of the block of buildings, hurried down the little back
garden, and flew breathlessly into her own kitchen, as a haven of refuge, but she found a tall,
stiff starched, elderly woman standing just within the door, and heard her last words.

'Well! as I said, 'tis no concern of mine; only I thought it the part of a friend to give you
a warning, when I seen it with my own eyes!-- Ah! here she is!' as Charlotte dropped into a
chair.  'Yes, yes, Miss, you need not think to deceive me; I saw you from Miss Mercy's window--'

'Saw what?' faintly exclaimed Charlotte.

'You know well enough,' was the return.  'You may think to blind Mrs. Beckett here, but I know
what over good-nature to young girls comes to. Pretty use to make of your fine scholarship,
to be encouraging followers and sweethearts, at that time in the morning too!'

'Speak up, Charlotte,' said the other occupant of the room, a pleasant little brisk woman,
with soft brown, eyes, a clear pale skin, and a face smooth, in spite of nearly sixty years;
'speak up, and tell Mrs. Martha the truth, that you never encouraged no one.'

The girl's face was all one flame, but she rose up, and clasping her hands together, exclaimed--'Me
encourage!  I never thought of what Mrs. Martha says!  I don't know what it is all about!'

'Here, Jane Beckett,' cried Mrs. Martha; 'd'ye see what 'tis to vindicate her!  Will you take
her word against mine, that she's been gossiping this half hour with that young rogue as was
turned off at Ormersfield?'

'Tom Madison!  cried the girl, in utter amaze.  'Oh! Mrs. Martha!'

'Well! I can't stop!' said Martha. 'I must get Miss Faithfull's breakfast! but if you was under
me, Miss Charlotte, I can tell you it would be better for you!  You'll sup sorrow yet, and
you'll both recollect my advice, both of you.'

Wherewith the Cassandra departed, and Charlotte, throwing her apron over her face, began to
cry and sob piteously.

'My dear! what is it now? exclaimed her kind companion, pulling down her apron, and trying
to draw down first one, then the other of the arms which persisted in veiling the crimson face.
'Surely you don't think missus or I would mistrust you, or think you'd take up with the likes
of him!'

'How could she be so cruel--so spiteful,' sobbed Charlotte, 'when he only came to ask one question,
and did a good turn for me with the mats.  I never thought of such a thing.  Sweetheart, indeed!
So cruel of her!'

'Bless me!' said Jane, 'girls used to think it only civility to say they had a sweetheart!'

'Don't, Mrs. Beckett!  I hate the word!  I don't want no such thing! I won't never speak to
Tom Madison again, if such constructions is to be put on it!'

'Well, after all, Charlotte dear, that will be the safest way. You are young yet, and best
not to think of settling, special if you aren't sure of one that is steady and religious, and
you'd better keep yourself up, and not get a name for gossiping--though there's no harm done
yet, so don't make such a work.  Bless me, if I don't hear his lordship's voice!  He ain't
never come so early!'

'Yes, he is,' said Charlotte, recovering from her sobs; 'he rode up as I came in.'

'Well, to be sure, he is come to breakfast!  I hope nothin's amiss with my young Lord!  I must
run up with a cup and plate, and you, make the place tidy, in case Mr. Poynings comes in. 
You'd better run into the scullery and wash your face; 'tis all tears!  You're a terrible one
to cry, Charlotte!' with a kind, cheering smile and caress.

Mrs. Beckett bustled off, leaving Charlotte to restore herself to the little handy piece of
household mechanism which kind, patient, motherly training had rendered her.

Charlotte Arnold had been fairly educated at a village school, and tenderly brought up at home
till left an orphan, when she had been taken into her present place.  She had much native refinement
and imagination, which, half cultivated, produced a curious mixture of romance and simplicity.
Her insatiable taste for reading was meritorious in the eyes of Mrs. Beckett, who, unlearned
herself, thought any book better than 'gadding about,' and, after hearing her daily portion
of the Bible, listened to the most adventurous romances, with a sense of pleasure and duty
in keeping the girl to her book. She loved the little fragile orphan, taught her, and had patience
with her, and trusted the true high sound principle which she recognised in Charlotte, amid
much that she could not fathom, and set down alternately to the score of scholarship and youth.

Taste, modesty, and timidity were guards to Charlotte.  A broad stare was terror to her, and
she had many a fictitious horror, as well as better-founded ones.  Truly she said, she hated
the broad words Martha had used.  One who craved a true knight to be twitted with a sweetheart!
Martha and Tom Madison were almost equally distasteful, as connected with such a reproach;
and the little maiden drew into herself, promenaded her fancy in castles and tournaments, kept
under Jane's wing, and was upheld by her as a sensible, prudent girl.

CHAPTER II.

AN OLD SCHOOLMISTRESS.
                             WORDSWORTH.

Unconscious of Charlotte's flight and Tom's affront, the Earl of Ormersfield rode along Dynevor
Terrace--a row of houses with handsome cemented fronts, tragic and comic masks alternating
over the downstairs windows, and the centre of the block adorned with a pediment and colonnade;
but there was an air as if something ailed the place: the gardens were weedy, the glass doors
hazy, the cement stained and scarred, and many of the windows closed and dark, like eyes wanting
speculation, or with merely the dreary words 'To be let' enlivening their blank gloom.  At
the house where Charlotte had vanished, he drew his rein, and opened the gate--not one of the
rusty ones--he entered the garden, where all was trim and fresh, the shadow of the house lying
across the sward, and preserving the hoar-frost, which, in the sunshine, was melting into diamond
drops on the lingering China roses.

Without ring or knock, he passed into a narrow, carpetless vestibule, unadorned except by a
beautiful blue Wedgewood vase, and laying down hat and whip, mounted the bare staircase, long
since divested of all paint or polish.  Avoiding the door of the principal room, he opened
another at the side, and stood in a flood of sunshine, pouring in from the window, which looked
over all the roofs of the town, to the coppices and moorlands of Ormersfield.  On the bright
fire sung a kettle, a white cat purred on the hearth, a canary twittered merrily in the window,
and the light smiled on a languishing Dresden shepherdess and her lover on the mantelpiece,
and danced on the ceiling, reflected from a beautifully chased silver cream-jug--an inconsistent
companion for the homely black teapot and willow-patterned plates, though the two cups of rare
Indian porcelain were not unworthy of it.  The furniture was the same mixture of the ordinary
and the choice, either worn and shabby, or such as would suit a virtuoso, but the whole arranged
with taste and care that made the effect bright, pleasant, and comfortable. Lord Ormersfield
stood on the hearth-rug waiting.  His face was that of one who had learnt to wait, more considerate
than acute, and bearing the stamp both of toil and suffering, as if grief had taken away all
mobility of expression, and left a stern, thoughtful steadfastness.

Presently a lady entered the room.  Her hair was white as snow, and she could not have seen
less than seventy-seven years; but beauty was not gone from her features--smiles were still
on her lips, brightness in her clear hazel eyes, buoyancy in her tread, and alertness and dignity
in her tall, slender, unbent figure.  There was nothing so remarkable about her as the elasticity
as well as sweetness of her whole look and bearing, as if, while she had something to love,
nothing could be capable of crushing her.

'You here!' she exclaimed, holding out her hand to her guest.  'You are come to breakfast.'

'Thank you; I wished to see you without interrupting your day's work. Have you many scholars
at present?'

'Only seven, and three go into school at Easter.  Jem and Clara, wish me to undertake no more,
but I should sorely miss the little fellows. I wish they may do me as much credit as Sydney
Calcott.  He wrote himself to tell me of his success.'

'I am glad to hear it.  He is a very promising young man.'

'I tell him I shall come to honour, as the old dame who taught him to spell.  My scholars may
make a Dr. Busby of me in history.'

'I am afraid your preferment will depend chiefly on James and young Calcott.'

'Nay, Louis tells me that he is going to read wonderfully hard; and if he chooses, he can do
more than even Sydney Calcott.'

'If!' said the Earl.

Jane here entered with another cup and plate, and Lord Ormersfield sat down to the breakfast-table.
After some minutes' pause he said, 'Have you heard from Peru?'

'Not by this mail.  Have you?'

'Yes, I have.  Mary is coming home.'

'Mary!' she cried, almost springing up--'Mary Ponsonby?  This is good news--unless,' as she
watched his grave face, 'it is her health that brings her.'

'It is.  She has consulted the surgeon of the Libra, a very able man, who tells her that there
is absolute need of good advice and a colder climate; and Ponsonby has consented to let her
and her daughter come home in the Libra.  I expect them in February.'

'My poor Mary!  But she will get better away from him.  I trust he is not coming!'

'Not he,' said Lord Ormersfield.

'Dear, dear Mary!  I had scarcely dared to hope to see her again,' cried the old lady, with
tears in her eyes.  'I hope she will be allowed to be with us, not kept in London with his
sister.  London does her no good.'

'The very purport of my visit,' said Lord Ormersfield, 'was to ask whether you could do me
the favour to set aside your scholars, and enable me to receive Mrs. Ponsonby at home.'

'Thank you--oh, thank you.  There is nothing I should like better, but I must consider--'

'Clara would find a companion in the younger Mary in the holidays, and if James would make
Fitzjocelyn his charge, it would complete the obligation.  It would be by far the best arrangement
for Mary's comfort, and it would be the greatest satisfaction to me to see her with you at
Ormersfield.'

'I believe it would indeed,' said the old lady, more touched than the outward manner of the
Earl seemed to warrant.  'I would--you know I would do my very best that you and Mary should
be comfortable together'--and her voice trembled--'but you see I cannot promise all at once.
I must see about these little boys.  I must talk to Jem. In short, you must not be disappointed'--and
she put her hands before her face, trying to laugh, but almost overcome.

'Nay, I did not mean to press you,' said Lord Ormersfield, gently; 'but I thought, since James
has had the fellowship and Clara has been at school, that you wished to give up your pupils.'

'So I do,' said the lady, but still not yielding absolutely.

'For the rest, I am very anxious that James should accept Fitzjocelyn as his pupil.  I have
always considered their friendship as the best hope, and other plans have had so little success,
that--'

'I'm not going to hear Louis abused!' she exclaimed, gaily.

'Yes,' said Lord Ormersfield, with a look nearly approaching a smile, 'you are the last person
I ought to invite, if I wish to keep your nephew unspoiled.'

'I wish there were any one else to spoil him!'

'For his sake, then, come and make Ormersfield cheerful.  It will be far better for him.'

'And for you, to see more of Jem,' she added.  'If he were yours, what would you say to such
hours?'

The last words were aimed at a young man who came briskly into the room, and as he kissed her,
and shook hands with the Earl, answered in a quick, bright tone, 'Shocking, aye.  All owing
to sitting up till one!'

'Reading?' said the Earl.

'Reading,' he answered, with a sort of laughing satisfaction in dashing aside the approval
expressed in the query, 'but not quite as you suppose.  See here,' as he held up maliciously
a railway novel.

'I am afraid I know where it came from,' said Lord Ormersfield.

'Exactly so,' said James.  'It was Fitzjocelyn's desertion of it that excited my curiosity.'

'Indeed.  I should have thought his desertions far too common to excite any curiosity.'

'By no means.  He always has a reason.'

'A plausible one.'

'More than plausible,' cried James, excitement sparkling in his vivid black eyes.  'It happens
that this is the very book that you would most rejoice to see distasteful to him--low morality,
false principles, morbid excitement, not a line that ought to please a healthy mind.'--

'Yet it has interest enough for you.'

'I am not Fitzjocelyn.'

'You know how to plead for him.'

'I speak simple truth,' bluntly answered James, running his hand through his black hair, to
the ruin of the morning smoothness, so that it, as well as the whole of his quick, dark countenance
seemed to have undergone a change from sunny south to stormy north in the few moments since
his first appearance.

After a short silence, Lord Ormersfield turned to him, saying 'I have been begging a favour
of my aunt, and I have another to ask of you,' and repeating his explanation, begged him to
undertake the tutorship of his son.

'I shall not be at liberty at Easter,' said James, 'I have all but undertaken some men at Oxford.'

'Oh, my dear Jem!' exclaimed the old lady, 'is that settled beyond alteration?'

'I'm not going to throw them over.'

'Then I shall hope for you at Midsummer,' said the Earl.

'We shall see how things stand,' he returned, ungraciously.

'I shall write to you,' said Lord Ormersfield, still undaunted, and soon after taking his leave.

'Cool!' cried James, as soon as he was gone.  'To expect you to give up your school at his
beck, to come and keep house for him as long as it may suit him!'

'Nay, Jem, he knew how few boys I have, and that I intended to give them up.  You don't mean
to refuse Louis?' she said, imploringly.

'I shall certainly not take him at Easter.  It would be a mere farce intended to compensate
to us for giving up the school, and I'll not lend myself to it while I can have real work.'

'At Midsummer, then.  You know he will never let Louis spend a long vacation without a tutor.'

'I hate to be at Ormersfield,' proceeded James, vehemently, 'to see Fitzjocelyn browbeaten
and contradicted every moment, and myself set up for a model.  I may steal a horse, while he
may not look over the wall! Did you observe the inconsistency?--angry with the poor fellow
first for having the book, and then for not reading the whole, while it became amiable and
praiseworthy in me to burn out a candle over it!'

'Ah! that was my concern.  I tell him he would sing another note if you were his son.'

'I'd soon make him!  I would not stand what Louis does.  The more he is set down and sneered
at, the more debonnaire he looks, till I could rave at him for taking it so easily.'

'I hoped you might have hindered them from fretting each other, as they do so often.'

'I should only be a fresh element of discord, while his lordship will persist in making me
his pattern young man.  It makes me hate myself, especially as Louis is such an unaccountable
fellow that he won't.'

'I am sorry you dislike the plan so much.'

'Do you mean that you wish for it, grandmamma? cried he, turning full round on her with an
air of extreme amazement.  'If you do, there's an end of it; but I thought you valued nothing
more than an independent home.'

'Nor would I give it up on any account,' said she.  'I do not imagine this could possibly last
for more than a few months, or a year at the utmost.  But you know, dear Jem, I would do nothing
you did not like.'

'That's nothing to the purpose,' replied James.  'Though it is to be considered whether Ormersfield
is likely to be the best preparation for Clara's future life.  However, I see you wish it--'

'I confess that I do, for a few months at least, which need interfere neither with Clara nor
with you.  I have not seen Lord Ormersfield so eager for many years, and I should be very sorry
to prevent those two from being comfortably together in the old home--'

'And can't that be without a chaperon?' exclaimed James, laughing. 'Why, his lordship is fifty-five,
and she can't be much less.  That is a good joke.'

'It is not punctilio,' said his grandmother, looking distressed.  'It is needful to be on the
safe side with such a man as Mr. Ponsonby. My fear is that he may send her home with orders
not to come near us.'

'She used to be always at Ormersfield in the old times.'

'Yes, when my sister was alive.  Ah! you were too young to know about those matters then. 
The fact was, that things had come to such a pass from Mr. Ponsonby's neglect and unkindness,
that Lord Ormersfield, standing in the place of her brother, thought it right to interfere.
His mother went to London with him, to bring poor Mary and her little girl back to Ormersfield,
and there they were till my sister's death, when of course they could not remain.  Mr. Ponsonby
had just got his appointment as British envoy in Peru, and wished her to go with him. It was
much against Lord Ormersfield's advice, but she thought it her duty, poor dear.  I believe
he positively hates Lord Ormersfield; and as if for a parting unkindness, he left his little
girl at school with orders to spend her holidays with his sister, and never to be with us.'

'That accounts for it!' said James.  'I never knew all this! nor why we were so entirely cut
off from Mary Ponsonby.  I wonder what she is now! She was a droll sturdy child in those days!
We used to call her Downright Dunstable!  She was almost of the same age as Louis, and a great
deal stouter, and used to fight for him and herself too. Has not she been out in Peru?'

'Yes, she went out at seventeen.  I believe she is an infinite comfort to her mother.'

'Poor Mary!  Well, we children lived in the middle of a tragedy, and little suspected it! 
By the bye, what relation are the Ponsonbys to us?'

'Mrs. Ponsonby is my niece.  My dear sister, Mary--'

'Married Mr. Raymond--yes, I know!  I'll make the whole lucid; I'll draw up a pedigree, and
Louis shall learn it.'  And with elaborate neatness he wrote as follows, filling in the dates
from the first leaf of an old Bible, after his grandmother had left the room.  The task, lightly
undertaken, became a mournful one, and as he read over his performance, his countenance varied
from the gentleness of regret to a look of sarcastic pride, as though he felt that the world
had dealt hardly by him, and yet disdained to complain.

                                                                              KING ARTHUR
                                                                                   -
                                                                 Pendragons and Dynevors innumerable
                                                                                    -
                                                                        Roland Dynevor, d. 1793
                                                                                   -
             1.                                                                    2.                                               3.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

             -                                                                     -                                             -

  Catharine, m. James Frost Dynevor, Esq.                         Elizabeth, m. Jocelyn, 3rd Earl of Ormersfield           Mary, m. Ch. Raymond, Esq.
   b. 1770            b. 1765                                       b. 1772          b. 1760                               b. 1774     d.1802
                      d. 1816                                       d. 1835          d. 1833                               d. 1800

  1.                                     2.
  --------------------------------------------------                 Jocelyn, m. Louisa Villars,                           Mary, m. Robert Ponsonby Esq.,

  Henry Roland m. Frances Preston    Oliver J. Frost                4th Earl of    b. 1805                                 b. 1796    British Envoy
  Frost Dynevor        b. 1802          Dynevor                     Ormersfield    d. 1826                                                in Peru.
    b. 1794            d. 1832          b. 1797                       b. 1792
    d. 1832

  1.                  2.             3.           4.        5.
  ------------------------------------------------------------
  James Roland      Frances      Catharine   Oliver      Clara            Louis Fitzjocelyn                                Mary Ponsonby
  Frost Dynevor     b. 1826       b. 1827    b. 1829     b. 1831         Viscount Fitzjocelyn                                 b. 1826
   b. 1824          d. 1832       d. 1832    d. 1832                            b. 1826.
  Fellow of St.
  F. College,
  Oxford.

'Since 1816,' muttered James, as he finished.  'Thirty years of drudgery!  When shall I be
able to relieve her?  Ha!  O. J. F. Dynevor, Esquire, if it were you who were coming from Peru,
you would find a score to settle!'

He ran down stairs to assist his grandmother in the Latin lessons of her little school, the
usual employment of his vacations.

Catharine Dynevor had begun life with little prospect of spending nearly half of it as mistress
of a school.

Her father was the last male of the Dynevors of Cheveleigh--a family mounting up to the days
of the Pendragons--and she had been made to take the place of an eldest son, inheriting the
extensive landed property on condition that her name and arms should be assumed in case of
her marriage.  Her choice was one of the instances in which her affections had the mastery
over her next strongest characteristic, family pride.  She married a highly-educated and wealthy
gentleman, of good family, but of mercantile connexions, such as her father, if living, would
have disdained.  Her married life was, however, perfectly unclouded, her ample means gave her
the power of dispensing joy, and her temperament was so blithe and unselfish that no pleasure
ever palled upon her.  Cheveleigh was a proverb for hospitality, affording unfailing fetes
for all ages, full of a graceful ease and freedom that inspired enjoyment.

Mr. Frost Dynevor was a man of refined taste, open-handed even to extravagance, liberal in
all his appointments, and gratifying to the utmost his love of art and decoration, while his
charities and generous actions were hearty and lavish enough to satisfy even his warm-hearted wife.

Joined with all this was a strong turn for speculations.  When the mind has once become absorbed
in earthly visions of wealth and prosperity, the excitement exercises such a fascination over
the senses that the judgment loses balance.  Bold assumptions are taken as certainties, and
made the foundation of fresh fabrics--the very power of discerning between fact and possibility
departs, and, in mere good-will, men, honest and honourable at heart, risk their own and their
neighbours' property, and ruin their character and good name, by the very actions most foreign
to to their nature, ere it had fallen under the strong delusion.

Mr. Frost Dynevor had the misfortune to live in a country rich in mineral wealth, and to have
a brother-in-law easily guided, and with more love of figures than power of investigating estimates
on a large scale.  Mines were set on foot, companies established, and buildings commenced,
and the results were only to be paralleled by those of the chalybeate springs discovered by
Mr. Dynevor at the little town of Northwold, which were pronounced by his favourite hanger-on
to be destined 'literally to cut the throat of Bath and Cheltenham.'

Some towns are said to have required the life of a child ere their foundations could be laid.
Many a speculation has swallowed a life and fortune before its time for thriving has come.
Mr. Frost Dynevor and Lord Ormersfield were the foremost victims to the Cheveleigh iron foundries
and the Northwold baths.  The close of the war brought a commercial crisis that their companies
could not stand; and Mr. Dynevor's death spared him from the sight of the crash, which his
talent and sagacity might possibly have averted.  He had shown no misgivings, but, no sooner
was he removed from the helm, than the vessel was found on the brink of destruction.  Enormous
sums had been sunk without tangible return, and the liabilities of the companies far surpassed
anything that they had realized.

Lord Ormersfield was stunned and helpless.  Mrs. Dynevor had but one idea--namely, to sacrifice
everything to clear her husband's name. Her sons were mere boys, and the only person who proved
himself able to act or judge was the heir of Ormersfield, then about four-and-twenty, who came
forward with sound judgment and upright dispassionate sense of justice to cope with the difficulties
and clear away the involvements.

He joined his father in mortgaging land, sacrificing timber, and reducing the establishment,
so as to set the estate in the way of finally becoming free, though at the expense of rigid
economy and self-denial.

Cheveleigh could not have been saved, even had the heiress not been willing to yield everything
to satisfy the just claims of the creditors.  She was happy when she heard that it would suffice,
and that no one would be able to accuse her husband of having wronged him. But for this, she
would hardly have submitted to retain what her nephew succeeded in securing for her--namely,
an income of about 150 pounds per annum, and the row of houses called Dynevor Terrace, one
of the building ventures at Northwold.  This was the sole dependence with which she and her
sons quitted the home of their forefathers.  'Never mind, mother,' said Henry, kissing her,
to prevent the tears from springing, 'home is wherever we are together!' 'Never fear, mother,'
echoed Oliver, with knitted brow and clenched hands, 'I will win it back.'

Oliver was a quiet lad, of diligent, methodical habits, and willingly accepted a clerkship
in a mercantile house, which owed some obligations to his father.  At the end of a couple of
years he was sent to reside in South America; and his parting words to his mother were--'When
you see me again, Cheveleigh shall be yours.'

'Oh, my boy, take care.  Remember, 'They that haste to be rich shall not be innocent.''

That was the last time she had seen Oliver.

Her great object was to maintain herself independently and to complete Henry's education as
a gentleman.  With this view she took up her abode in the least eligible of her houses at Northwold,
and, dropping the aristocratic name which alone remained of her heiress-ship, opened a school
for little boys, declaring that she was rejoiced to recall the days when Henry and Oliver wore
frocks and learnt to spell. If any human being could sweeten the Latin Grammar, it was Mrs.
Frost, with the motherliness of a dame, and the refinement of a lady, unfailing sympathy and
buoyant spirits, she loved each urchin, and each urchin loved her, till she had become a sort
of adopted grandmamma to all Northwold and the neighbourhood.

Henry went to Oxford.  He gained no scholarship, took no honours, but he fell neither into
debt nor disgrace; he led a goodnatured easy life, and made a vast number of friends; and when
he was not staying with them, he and his mother were supremely happy together.  He walked with
her, read to her, sang to her, and played with her pupils.  He had always been brought up as
the heir--petted, humoured, and waited on--a post which he filled with goodhumoured easy grace,
and which he continued to fill in the same manner, though he had no one to wait on him but
his mother, and her faithful servant Jane Beckett.  Years passed on, and they seemed perfectly
satisfied with their division of labour,--Mrs. Frost kept school, and Henry played the flute,
or shot over the Ormersfield property.

If any one remonstrated, Henry was always said to be waiting for a government appointment,
which was to be procured by the Ormersfield interest.  More for the sake of his mother than
of himself, the Ormersfield interest was at length exerted, and the appointment was conferred
on him.  The immediate consequence was his marriage with the first pretty girl he met, poorer
than himself, and all the Ormersfield interest failed to make his mother angry with him.

The cholera of 1832 put an end to poor Henry's desultory life.  His house, in a crowded part
of London, was especially doomed by the deadly sickness; and out of the whole family the sole
survivors were a little girl of ten months old, and a boy of seven years, the latter of whom
was with his grandmother at Northwold.

Mrs. Frost was one of the women of whom affection makes unconscious heroines.  She could never
sink, as long as there was aught to need her love and care; and though Henry had been her darling,
the very knowledge that his orphans had no one but herself to depend on, seemed to brace her
energies with fresh life.  They were left entirely on her hands, her son Oliver made no offers
of assistance. He had risen, so as to be a prosperous merchant at Lima, and he wrote with regularity
and dutifulness, but he had never proposed coming to England, and did not proffer any aid in
the charge of his brother's children.  If she had expected anything from him, she did not say
so; she seldom spoke of him, but never without tenderness, and usually as her 'poor Oliver,'
and she abstained from teaching her grandchildren either to look to their rich uncle or to
mourn over their lost inheritance.  Cheveleigh was a winter evening's romance with no one but
Jane Beckett; and the grandmother always answered the children's inquiries by bidding them
prove their ancient blood by resolute independence, and by that true dignity which wealth could
neither give nor take away.

Of that dignity, Mrs. Frost was a perfect model.  A singular compound of the gentle and the
lofty, of tenderness and independence, she had never ceased to be the Northwold standard of
the 'real lady,' too mild and gracious to be regarded as proud and poor, and yet too dignified
for any liberty to be attempted, her only fault, that touch of pride, so ladylike and refined
that it was kept out of sight, and never offended, and everything else so sweet and winning
that there was scarcely a being who did not love, as well as honour her, for the cheerfulness
and resignation that had borne her through her many trials.  Her trustful spirit and warm heart
had been an elixir of youth, and had preserved her freshness and elasticity long after her
sister and brother-in-law at Ormersfield had grown aged and sunk into the grave, and even her
nephew was fast verging upon more than middle age.

CHAPTER III.

LOUIS LE DEBONNAIRE.
                                        ISC WATTS.

Ormersfield Park was extensive, ranging into fine broken ground, rocky and overgrown with brushwood;
but it bore the marks of retrenchment; there was hardly a large timber tree on the estate,
enclosures had been begun and deserted, and the deer had been sold off to make room for farmers'
cattle, which grazed up to the very front door.

The house was of the stately era of Anne, with a heavy portico and clumsy pediment on the garden
side, all the windows of the suite of rooms opening on a broad stone terrace, whence steps
descended to the lawn, neatly kept, but sombre, for want of openings in the surrounding evergreens.

It was early March, and a lady wrapped in a shawl was seated on the terrace, enjoying the mild
gleam of spring, and the freshness of the sun-warmed air, which awoke a smile of welcome as
it breathed on her faded cheek, and her eyes gazed on the scene, in fond recognition.

It had been the home of Mrs. Ponsonby's childhood; and the slopes of turf and belts of dark
ilex were fraught with many a recollection of girlish musings, youthful visions, and later,
intervals of tranquillity and repose.  After fourteen years spent in South America, how many
threads she had to take up again!  She had been as a sister to her cousin, Lord Ormersfield,
and had shared more of his confidence than any other person during their earlier years, but
afterwards their intercourse had necessarily been confined to brief and guarded letters. She
had found him unchanged in his kindness to herself, and she was the more led to ponder on the
grave, stern impassiveness of his manner to others, and to try to understand the tone of mind
that it indicated.

She recalled him as he had been in his first youth--reserved, sensible, thoughtful, but with
the fire of ambition burning strongly within, and ever and anon flashing forth vividly, repressed
at once as too demonstrative, but filling her with enthusiastic admiration. She remembered
him calmly and manfully meeting the shock of the failure, that would, he knew, fetter and encumber
him through life--how resolutely he had faced the difficulties, how unselfishly he had put
himself out of the question, how uprightly he had dealt by the creditors, how considerately
by his father and aunt, how wise and moderate his proceedings had been throughout.  She recollected
how she had shared his aspirations, and gloried in his consistent and prudent course, without
perceiving what sorrow had since taught her-that ambition was to him what pleasure was to other
young men.  What had it not been to her when that ambition began to be gratified! when he had
become a leading man in Parliament, and by-and-by held office.

There, a change came over the spirit of her dream; and though she sighed, she could not but
smile at the fair picture that rose before her, of a young girl of radiant loveliness, her
golden curls drooping over her neck, and her eyes blue as the starry veronica by the hedge
side, smiling in the sunshine.  She thought of the glances of proud delight that her cousin
had stolen at her, to read in her face, that his Louisa was more than all he had told her.
Little was needed to make her love the sweet, caressing young creature who had thrown her arms
round her, and told her that she saw it was all nonsense to tell her she was such a good, grave,
dreadful cousin Mary!  Yet there had been some few misgivings!  So short an acquaintance! 
Her cousin too busy for more than being bewitched by the lovely face!  The Villiers family,
so gay and fashionable!  Might not all have been foreseen? And yet, of what use would foresight
have been?  The gentleman was deeply attached, and the lady's family courted the match, the
distinction he had won, atoning for his encumbered fortune.

Other scenes arose on her memory--Louisa, a triumphant beauty, living on the homage she received,
all brilliance, grace, and enjoyment. But there was a darkening background which grew more
prominent.  Poor Louisa had little wisdom by nature, and her education had been solely directed
to enable her to shine in the world, not to render her fit for the companionship of a man of
domestic tastes, accustomed to the society of superior women.  There was nothing to fall back
upon, nothing to make a home, she was listless and weary whenever gaiety failed her--and he,
disappointed and baffled, too unbending to draw her out, too much occupied to watch over her,
yielded to her tastes, and let her pursue her favourite enjoyments unchecked.

A time had come when childish vanity and frivolity were verging on levity and imprudence. 
Expostulations fell powerless on her shallowness.  Painful was the remembrance of the deprecating
roguish glance of the beautiful eyes, and the coaxing caresses with which she kissed away the
lecture, and made promises, only to forget them.  She was like the soulless Undine, with her
reckless gaiety and sweetness, so loving and childish that there was no being displeased with
her, so innocent and devoid of all art or guile in her wilfulness, that her faults could hardly
bear a harsher name than follies.

Again, Mrs. Ponsonby thought of the days when she herself had been left to stay with her old
uncle and aunt.  In this very house while her husband was absent abroad, when she had assisted
them to receive the poor young wife, sent home in failing health.  She thought of the sad weeks,
so melancholy in the impossibility of making an impression, or of leading poor Louisa from
her frivolities, she recalled the sorrow of hearing her build on future schemes of pleasure,
the dead blank when her prattle on them failed, the tedium of deeper subjects, and yet the
bewitching sweetness overpowering all vexation at her exceeding silliness.  Though full one-and-twenty
years had passed, still the tears thrilled warm into Mrs. Ponsonby's eyes at the thought of
Louisa's fond clinging to her, in spite of many an admonition and even exertion of authority,
for she alone dared to control the spoilt child's self-will; and had far more power than the
husband, who seemed to act as a check and restraint, and whose presence rendered her no longer
easy and natural.  One confidence had explained the whole.

'You know, Mary dear, I always was so much afraid of him!  If I had had my own way, I know
who it would have been; but there were mamma and Anna Maria always saying how fortunate I was,
and that he would be Prime Minister, and all the rest.  Oh! I was far too young and foolish
for him.  He should have married a sober body, such as you, Mary!  Why did he not?  She wished
she had never teased him by going out so much, and letting people talk nonsense; he had been
very kind, and she was not half good enough for him.  That confession, made to him, would have
been balm for ever; but she had not resolution for the effort, and the days slid away till
the worst fears were fulfilled.  Nay, were they the worst fears?  Was there not an unavowed
sense that it was safer that she should die, while innocent of all but wayward folly, than
be left to perils which she was so little able to resist?

The iron expression of grief on her husband's face had forbidden all sympathy, all attempt
at consolation.  He had returned at once to his business in London, there to find that poor
Louisa's extravagance had equalled her folly, and that he, whose pride it had been to redeem
his paternal property, was thrown back by heavy debts on his own account. This had been known
to Mrs. Ponsonby, but by no word from him; he had never permitted the most distant reference
to his wife, and yet, with inconsistency betraying his passionate love, he had ordered one
of the most beautiful and costly monuments that art could execute, for her grave at Ormersfield,
and had sent brief but explicit orders that, contrary to all family precedent, his infant should
bear no name but Louis.

On this boy Mrs. Ponsonby had founded all her hopes of a renewal of happiness for her cousin;
but when she had left England there had been little amalgamation between the volatile animated
boy, and his grave unbending father.  She could not conjure up any more comfortable picture
of them than the child uneasily perched on his papa's knee, looking wistfully for a way of
escape, and his father with an air of having lifted him up as a duty, without knowing what
to do with him or to say to him.

At her earnest advice, the little fellow had been placed as a boarder with his great aunt,
Mrs. Frost, when his grandmother's death had deprived him of all that was homelike at Ormersfield,
He had been with her till he was old enough for a public school, and she spoke of him as if
he were no less dear to her than her own grandchildren; but she was one who saw no fault in
those whom she loved, and Mrs. Ponsonby had been rendered a little anxious by a certain tone
of dissatisfaction in Lord Ormersfield's curt mention of his son, and above all by his cold
manner of announcing that this was the day when he would return from Oxford for the Easter
vacation.

Could it be that the son was unworthy, or had the father's feelings been too much chilled ever
to warm again, and all home affections lost in the strife of politics?  These had ever since
engaged him, whether in or out of office, leaving little time for society or for any domestic
pursuit.

Her reflections were interrupted by a call of 'Mamma!' and her daughter came running up the
steps.  Mary Ponsonby had too wide a face for beauty, and not slightness enough for symmetry,
but nothing could be more pleasing and trustworthy than the open countenance, the steady, clear,
greenish-brown eyes, the kind, sensible mouth, the firm chin, broad though rather short forehead,
and healthy though not highly-coloured cheek; and the voice--full, soft, and cheerful--well
agreed with the expression, and always brought gladness and promise of sympathy.

'See, mamma, what we have found for you.'

'Violets!  The very purple ones that used to grow on the orchard bank!'

'So they did.  Mary knew exactly where to look for them,' said Mrs. Frost, who had followed
her up the steps.

'And there is Gervas,' continued Mary; 'so charmed to hear of you, that we had almost brought
him to see you.'

Mrs. Ponsonby declared herself so much invigorated by Ormersfield air, that she would go to
see her old friend the gardener.  Mary hurried to fetch her bonnet, and returned while a panegyric
was going on upon her abilities as maid-of-all-work, in her mother's difficulties with male
housemaids--black and brown--and washerwomen who rode on horseback in white satin shoes.  She
looked as if it were hardly natural that any one but herself should support her mother, when
Mrs. Frost tenderly drew Mrs. Ponsonby's arm into her own; and it was indeed strange to see
the younger lady so frail and broken, and the elder so strong, vigorous, and active; as they
moved along in the sunshine, pausing to note each spring blossom that bordered the gravel,
and entered the walled kitchen-garden, where espaliers ran parallel with the walks, dividing
the vegetables from the narrow flower-beds, illuminated by crocuses opening the depths of their
golden hearts to the sunbeams and the revelling bees.   Old Gervas, in a patriarchal red waistcoat,
welcomed Mrs. Ponsonby with more warmth than flattery.   Bless me, ma'am, I'm right glad to
see you; but how old you be!'

'I must come home to learn how to grow young, Gervas,' said she, smiling; 'I hear Betty is
as youthful as my aunt here.'

'Ay, ma'am, Betty do fight it out tolerablish,' was the reply to this compliment.

'Why, Gervas, what's all that wilderness?  Surely those used to be strawberry beds.'

'Yes, ma'am, the earliest hautboys; don't ye mind?  My young Lord came and begged it of me,
and, bless the lad, I can't refuse him nothing.'

'He seems to be no gardener!'

'He said he wanted to make a Botany Bay sort of garden,' said the old man; 'and sure enough
'tis a garden of weeds he's made of it, and mine into the bargain!  He has a great big thistle
here, and the down blows right over my beds, thick as snow, so that it is three women's work
to be a match for the weeds; but speak to him of pulling it up, ye'd think 'twas the heart
out of him.'

'Does he ever work here?'

'At first it was nought else; he and that young chap, Madison, always bringing docks and darnel
out of the hedges, and plants from the nursery gardens, and bringing rockwork, and letting
water in to make a swamp.  There's no saying what's in the lad's head!  But, of late, he's
not done much but by times lying on the bank, reading or speaking verses out loud to himself,
or getting young Madison off his work to listen to him.  Once he got me to hear; but, ma'am,
'twas all about fairies and such like, putting an ass's head on an honest body as had lost
his way.  I told him 'twas no good for him or the boy to read such stuff, and I'd ha' none
of it; but, if he chose to read me some good book, he'd be welcome--for the candles baint so
good as they used, and I can't get no spectacles to suit me.'

'And did he read to you?'

'A bit or two, ma'am, if the humour took him.  But he's young, you see, ma'am.  I'm right glad
he'll find you here.  My old woman says he do want a lady about the place to make him comfortable
like.'

'And who is this young Madison?' asked Mrs. Ponsonby, when they had turned from the old gardener.

'To hear Jem, you would believe that he is the most promising plant rearing for Botany Bay!'
said Mrs. Frost.  'He is a boy from that wild place Marksedge, whom Louis took interest in,
and made more familiar than Jem liked, or than, perhaps, was good for him.  It did not answer;
the servants did not like it, and it ended in his being sent to work with Smith, the ironmonger.
Poor Louis! he took it sadly to heart, for he had taken great pains with the boy.'

'I like to hear the old name, Louis!'

'I can't help it,' said Mrs. Frost.  'He must be his old aunt Kitty's Louis le Debonnaire!
Don't you, remember your calling him so when he was a baby?'

'Oh yes, it has exactly recalled to me the sort of gracious look that he used to have--half
sly, half sweet-and so very pretty!'

'It suits him as well now.  He is the kind of being who must have a pet name;' and Mrs. Frost,
hoping he might be already arrived, could hardly slacken her eager step so as to keep pace
with her niece's feeble movements.  She was disappointed; the carriage had returned without
Lord Fitzjocelyn.  His hat and luggage were come, but he himself was missing.  Mrs. Frost was
very uneasy, but his father silenced conjectures by saying, that it was his usual way, and
he would make his appearance before the evening.  He would not send to meet another train,
saying, that the penalty of irregularity must be borne, and the horses should not suffer for
such freaks; and he would fain have been utterly indifferent, but he was evidently listening
to every sound, and betrayed his anxiety by the decision with which he checked all expression
of his aunt's fears.

There was no arrival all that evening, no explanation in the morning; and Betty Gervas, whom
Mary went to visit in the course of the day, began to wonder whether the young Lord could be
gone for a soldier--the usual fate of all missing village lads.

Mary was on her way home, through the park, along a path skirting the top of a wooded ravine,
a dashing rivulet making a pleasant murmur among the rocks below, and glancing here and there
through the brushwood that clothed the precipitous banks, when, with a sudden rustling and
crackling, a man leaped upon the path with a stone in each hand.

Mary started, but she did not lose her presence of mind, and her next glance showed her that
the apparition was not alarming, and was nearly as much amazed as herself.  It was a tall slight
young man, in a suit of shepherd's plaid, with a fair face and graceful agile form, recalling
the word debonnaire as she had yesterday heard it applied. In instant conviction that this
was the truant, she put out her hand by the same impulse that lighted his features with a smile
of welcome, and the years of separation seemed annihilated as he exclaimed, 'My cousin Mary!'
and grasped her hand, adding, 'I hope I did not frighten you--'

'Oh no; but where did you come from?'

'Up a hill perpendicular, like Hotspur,' he replied, in soft low quiet tones, which were a
strange contrast to the words.  'No, see here,' and parting the bushes he showed some rude
steps, half nature, half art, leading between the ferns and mountain-ash, and looking very
inviting.

'How delightful!' cried Mary.

'I am glad you appreciate it,' he exclaimed; 'I will finish it off now, and put a rail.  I
did not care to go on when I had lost the poor fellow who helped me, but it saves a world of
distance.'

'It must be very pretty amongst those beautiful ferns!'

'You can't conceive anything more charming,' he continued, with the same low distinct utterance,
but an earnestness that almost took away her breath.  'There are nine ferns on this bank--that
is, if we have the Scolopendrium Loevigatum, as I am persuaded.  Do you know anything of ferns?
Ah! you come from the land of tree ferns.'

'Oh!  I am so glad to exchange them for our home flowers.  Primroses look so friendly and natural.'

'These rocks are perfect nests for them, and they even overhang the river.  This is the best
bit of the stream, so rapid and foaming that I must throw a bridge across for Aunt Catharine.
Which would be most appropriate?  I was weighing it as I came up--a simple stone, or a rustic
performance in wood?'

'I should like stone,' said Mary, amused by his eagerness.

'A rough Druidical stone!  That's it!  The idea of rude negligent strength accords with such
places, and this is a stone country.  I know the very stone!  Do come down and see!'

'To-morrow, if you please,' said Mary.  'Mamma must want me, and--but I suppose they know of
your return at home.'

'No, they don't.  They have learnt by experience that the right time is the one never to expect
me.'

Mary's eyes were all astonishment, as she said, between wonder and reproof, 'Is that on purpose?'

'Adventures are thrust on some people,' was the nonchalant reply, with shoulders depressed,
and a twinkle of the eye, as if he purposed amazing his auditor.'

'I hope you have had an adventure, for nothing else could justify you,' said Mary, with some
humour, but more gravity.

'Only a stray infant-errant, cast on my mercy at the junction station. Nurse, between eating
and gossiping left behind--bell rings--engine squeaks--train starts--Fitzjocelyn and infant
vis-a-vis.'

'You don't mean a baby?'

'A child of five years old, who soon ceased howling, and confided his history to me.  He had
been visiting grandmamma in London, and was going home to Illershall; so I found the best plan
would be to leave the train at the next station, and take him home.'

'Oh, that was quite another thing!' exclaimed Mary, gratified at being able to like him.  'Could
you find his home?'

'Yes; he knew his name and address too well to be lost or mislaid. I would have come home as
soon as I had seen him in at the door; but the whole family rushed out on me, and conjured
me first to dine and then to sleep.  They are capital people.  Dobbs is superintendent of the
copper and tin works--a thoroughly right-minded man, with a nice, ladylike wife, the right
sort of sound stuff that old England's heart is made of.  It was worth anything to have seen
it!  They do incalculable good with their work-people.  I saw the whole concern.'

He launched into an explanation of the process, producing from his pocket, papers of the ore,
in every stage of manufacture, and twisting them up so carelessly, that they would have become
a mass of confusion, had not Mary undertaken the repacking.

As they approached the house, the library window was thrown up, and Mrs. Frost came hurrying
down with outstretched arms.  She was met by her young nephew with an overflow of fond affection,
before he looked up and beheld his father standing upright and motionless on the highest step.
His excuses were made more lightly and easily than seemed to suit such rigid looks; but Lord
Ormersfield bent his head as if resigning himself perforce to the explanation, and, with the
softened voice in which he always spoke to Mrs. Ponsonby, said, 'Here he is--Louis, you remember
your cousin.'

She was positively startled; for it was as if his mother's deep blue eyes were raised to hers,
and there were the same regular delicate features, fair, transparent complexion, and glossy
light-brown hair tinted with gold--the same careless yet deprecating glance, the same engaging
smile that warmed her heart to him at once, in spite of an air which was not that of wisdom.

'How little altered you are!' she exclaimed.  'If you were not taller than your father, I should
say you were the same Louis that I left fourteen years ago.'

'I fear that is the chief change,' said Lord Ormersfield.

'A boy that would be a boy all his life, like Sir Thomas More's son!' said Louis, coolly and
simply, but with a twinkle in the corner of his eye, as if he said it on purpose to be provoking;
and Mrs. Frost interposed by asking where the cousins had met, and whether they had known each
other.

'I knew him by what you said yesterday,' said Mary.

'Louis le Debonnaire? asked Mrs. Frost, smiling.

'No, Mary; not that name!' he exclaimed.  'It is what Jem calls me, when he has nothing more
cutting to say--'

'Aye, because it is exactly what you look when you know you deserve a scolding--with your shoulders
pulled down, and your face made up!' said his aunt, patting him.

When Mrs. Ponsonby and Mary had left the room to dress, Louis exclaimed, 'And that is Mrs.
Ponsonby!  How ill she does look!  Her very voice has broken down, though it still has the
sweet sound that I could never forget!  Has she had advice?'

'Dr. Hastings saw her in London,' said his father.  'He sent her into the country at once,
and thinks that there is fair hope that complete rest of spirits may check the disease.'

'Will she stay here?' said Louis, eagerly.  'That would be like old times, and we could make
her very comfortable.  I would train those two ponies for her drives--'

'I wish she would remain here,' said his father; 'but she is bent on becoming my aunt's tenant.'

'Ha!  That is next best!  They could do nothing more commendable. Will they be a windfall for
the House Beautiful?'

'No,' said Mrs. Frost.  'They wish to have a house of their own, in case Mr. Ponsonby should
come home, or Miss Ponsonby to stay with them.'

'The respected aunt who brought Mary up!  How long has she been at Lima?'

'Four years.'

'Four years!  She has not made use of her opportunities!  Alas for the illusion dispelled!
The Spanish walk and mantilla melt away; and behold! the primitive wide-mouthed body of fourteen
years since!'

Mrs. Frost laughed, but it seemed to be a serious matter with Lord Ormersfield. 'If you could
appreciate sterling worth,' he said, 'you would be ashamed to speak of your cousin with such
conceited disrespect.'

All the effect was to make Louis walk quietly out of the room; but his shoulder and eyebrow
made a secret telegraph of amazement to Mrs. Frost.

The new arrival seemed to have put the Earl into a state of constant restless anxiety, subdued
and concealed with a high hand, but still visible to one who knew him so intimately as did
Mrs. Ponsonby.  She saw that he watched each word and gesture, and studied her looks to judge
of the opinion they might create in her.  Now the process was much like weighing and balancing
the down of Fitzjocelyn's own favourite thistle; the profusion, the unsubstantiality, and the
volatility being far too similar; and there was something positively sad in the solicitous
heed taken of such utter heedlessness.

The reigning idea was the expedition to Illershall, and the excellent condition of the work-people
under his new friend the superintendent. Forgetful that mines were a tender subject, the eager
speaker became certain that copper must exist in the neighbourhood, and what an employment
it would afford to all the country round.  'Marksedge must be the very place, the soil promises
metallic veins, the discovery would be the utmost boon to the people.  It would lead to industry
and civilization, and counteract all the evils we have brought on them. Mary, do you remember
Marksedge, the place of exile?'

'Not that I know of.'

'No; we were too young to understand the iniquity.  In the last generation, it was not the
plan to stone Naboth, but to remove him. Great people could not endure little people; so, by
way of kindness, our whole population of Ormersfield, except a few necessary retainers, were
transported bodily from betwixt the wind and our nobility, located on a moor beyond our confines,
a generous gift to the poor-rates of Bletchynden, away from church, away from work, away from
superintendence, away from all amenities of the poor man's life!'

This was one of the improvements to which Mr. Dynevor had prompted the last Earl; but Louis
did not know whom he was cutting, as he uttered this tirade, with a glow on his cheek and eye,
but with his usual soft, modulated intonation and polished language, the distinctness and deliberation
taking off all air of rattle, and rendering his words more impressive.

'Indeed! is there much distress at Marksedge?' said Mrs. Ponsonby.

'They have gifts with our own poor at Christmas,' said Lord Ormersfield, 'but they are a defiant,
ungrateful set, always in distress by their own fault.'

'What cause have they for gratitude?' exclaimed his son.  'For being turned out of house and
home? for the three miles' walk to their daily work!  Yes, it is the fact.  The dozen families
left here, with edicts against lodgers, cannot suffice for the farmer's work; and all Norris's
and Beecher's men have to walk six miles every day of their lives, besides the hard day's work.
They are still farther from their parish, they are no one's charge, they have neither church
nor school, and whom should we blame for their being lawless?'

'It used to be thought a very good thing for the parish,' said Mrs. Frost, looking at her niece.
'I remember being sorry for the poor people, but we did not see things in the light in which
Louis puts it.'

'Young men like to find fault with the doings of their elders,' said Lord Ormersfield.

'Nothing can make me regard it otherwise than as a wicked sin!' said Louis.

'Nay, my dear,' mildly said Aunt Catharine, 'if it were mistaken, I am sure it was not intentionally
cruel.'

'What I call wicked is to sacrifice the welfare of dependents to our own selfish convenience!
And you would call it cruel too, Aunt Catharine, if you could hear the poor creatures beg as
a favour of Mr. Holdsworth to be buried among their kin, and know how it has preyed on the
minds of the dying that they might not lie here among their own people.'

'Change the subject, Fitzjocelyn,' said his father: 'the thing is done, and cannot be undone.'

'The undoing is my daily thought,' said Louis.  'If I could have tried my plan of weaving cordage
out of cotton-grass and thistle-down, I think I could have contrived for them.'

Mary looked up, and met his merry blue eye.  Was he saying it so gravely to try whether he
could take her in?  'If you could--' she said, and he went off into a hearty laugh, and finished
by saying, so that no one could guess whether it was sport or earnest, 'Even taking into account
the depredations of the goldfinches, it would be an admirable speculation, and would confer
immeasurable benefits on the owners of waste lands.  I mean to take out a patent when I have
succeeded in the spinning.'

'A patent for a donkey,' whispered Aunt Catharine.  He responded with a deferential bow, and
the conversation was changed by the Earl; but copper was still the subject uppermost with Louis,
and no sooner was dinner over than he followed the ladies to the library, and began searching
every book on metals and minerals, till he had heaped up a pile of volumes, whence be rang
the changes on oxide, pyrites, and carbonate, and octohedron crystals--names which poor Mrs.
Frost had heard but too often.  At last it came to certainty that he had seen the very masses
containing ore; he would send one to-morrow to Illershall to be analysed, and bring his friend
Dobbs down to view the spot.

'Not in my time,' interposed Lord Ormersfield.  'I would not wish for a greater misfortune
than the discovery of a mine on my property.'

'No wonder,' thought Mrs. Ponsonby, as she recollected Wheal Salamanca and Wheal Catharine,
and Wheal Dynevor, and all the other wheals that had wheeled away all Cheveleigh and half Ormersfield,
till the last unfortunate wheal failed when the rope broke, and there were no funds to buy
a new one.  No wonder Lord Ormersfield trembled when he heard his son launch out into those
easily-ascending conjectural calculations, freely working sums in his head, so exactly like
the old Earl, his grandfather, that she could have laughed, but for sympathy with the father,
and anxiety to see how the son would take the damp so vexatiously cast on his projects.

He made the gesture that Mrs. Frost called debonnaire--read on for five minutes in silence,
insisted on teaching his aunt the cause of the colours in peacock ores, compared them to a
pigeon's neck, and talked of old Betty Gervas's tame pigeons; whence he proceeded to memories
of the days that he and Mary had spent together, and asked which of their old haunts she had
revisited.  Had she been into the nursery?

'Oh yes! but I wondered you had sent the old walnut press into that lumber-room.'

'Is that satire?' said Louis, starting and looking in her face.

'I don't know what you mean.'

'I have a better right to ask what you mean by stigmatizing my apartment as a lumber-room?'

'It was only what I saw from the door,' said Mary, a little confused, but rallying and answering
with spirit; 'and I must maintain that, if you mean the room over the garden entrance, it is
very like a lumber-room.'

'Ah, Mary! you have not outgrown the delusions of your sex.  Is an Englishman's house his castle
while housemaids maraud over it, ransacking his possessions, irritating poor peaceful dust
that only wants to be let alone, sweeping away cherished cobwebs?'

'Oh, if you cherish cobwebs!' said Mary.

'Did not the fortunes of Scotland hang on a spider's thread?  Did not a cobweb save the life
of Mahomet, or Ali, or a mediaeval saint--no matter which?  Was not a spider the solace of
the Bastille?  Have not I lain for hours on a summer morning watching the tremulous lines of
the beautiful geometrical composition?'

'More shame for you!' said Mary, with a sort of dry humorous bluntness.

'The very answer you would have made in old times,' cried Louis, delighted.  'O Mary, you bring
me back the days of my youth!  You never would see the giant who used to live in that press!'

'I remember our great fall from the top of it.'

'Oh yes!' cried Louis;  'Jem Frost had set us up there bolt upright for sentries, and I saw
the enemies too soon, when you would not allow that they were there.  I was going to fire my
musket at them; but you used violence to keep me steady to my duty--pulled my hair, did not you?'

'I know you scratched me, and we both rolled off together!  I wonder we were not both killed!'

'That did not trouble Jem!  He picked us up, and ordered us into arrest under the bed for breach
of discipline.'

'I fear Jem was a martinet,' said Mrs. Frost.

'That he was!  A general formed on the model of him who, not contented with assaulting a demi-lune,
had taken une lune toute entiere.  We had a siege of the Fort Bombadero, inaccessible, and
with mortars firing double-hand grenades.  They were dandelion clocks, and there were nettles
to act the part of poisoned spikes on the breach.'

'I remember the nettles,' said Mary, 'and Jem's driving you to gather them; you standing with
your bare legs in the nettle-bed, when he would make me dig, and I could not come to help you!'

'On duty in the trenches.  Your sense of duty was exemplary.  I remember your digging on, like
a very Casablanca, all alone, in the midst of a thunder-storm, because Jem had forgotten to
call you in, crying all the time with fear of the lightning!'

'You came to help me,' said Mary.  'You came rushing out from the nursery to my rescue!'

'I could not make you stir.  We were taken prisoners by a sally from the nursery.  For once
in your life, you were in disgrace!'

'I quite thought I ought to mind Jem,' said Mary, 'and never knew whether it was play or earnest.'

'Only so could you transgress,' said Louis,--'you who never cried, except as my amateur Mungo
Malagrowther.  Poor Mary! what an amazement it was to me to find you breaking your heart over
the utmost penalties of the nursery law, when to me they only afforded agreeable occasions
of showing that I did not care!  I must have been intolerable till you and Mrs. Ponsonby took
me in hand!'

'I am glad you own your obligations,' said Lord Ormersfield.

'I own myself as much obliged to Mary for making me wise, as to Jem for making me foolish.'

'It is not the cause of gratitude I should have expected,' said his father.

'Alas! if he and Clara were but here!' sighed Louis.  'I entreated him in terms that might
have moved a pyramid from its base, but the Frost was arctic.  An iceberg will move, but he
is past all melting!'

'I respect his steadiness of purpose,' said the Earl; 'I know no young man whom I honour more
than James.'

His aunt and his son were looking towards each other with glistening eyes of triumph and congratulation,
and Mrs. Frost cleared her voice to say that he was making far too much of her Jemmy; a very
good boy, to be sure, but if he said so much of him, the Marys would be disappointed to see
nothing but a little fiery Welshman.

CHAPTER IV.

THISTLE-DOWN.

  Lightly soars the thistle-down,
    Lightly does it float--,
  Lightly seeds of care are sown,
    Little do we note.
  Watch life's thistles bud and blow,
    Oh, 'tis pleasant folly;
  But when all life's paths they strew,
    Then comes melancholy.
                  Poetry Past and Present.

Mary Ponsonby had led a life of change and wandering that had given her few strong local attachments.
The period she had spent at Ormersfield, when she was from five to seven years old, had been
the most joyous part of her life, and had given her a strong feeling for the place where she
had lived with her mother, and in an atmosphere of affection, free from the shadow of that
skeleton in the house, which had darkened her childhood more than she understood.

The great weakness of Mrs. Ponsonby's life had been her over-hasty acceptance of a man, whom
she did not thoroughly know, because her delicacy had taken alarm at foolish gossip about herself
and her cousin.  It was a folly that had been severely visited.  Irreligious himself, Mr. Ponsonby
disliked his wife's strictness; he resented her affection for her own family, gave way to dissipated
habits, and made her miserable both by violence and neglect.  Born late of this unhappy marriage,
little Mary was his only substantial link to his wife, and he had never been wanting in tenderness
to her: but many a storm had raged over the poor child's head; and, though she did not know
why the kind old Countess had come to remove her and her mother, and 'papa' was still a loved
and honoured title, she was fully sensible of the calm security at Ormersfield.

When Mr. Ponsonby had recalled his wife on his appointment at Lima, Mary had been left in England
for education, under the charge of his sister in London.  Miss Ponsonby was good and kind,
but of narrow views, thinking all titled people fashionable, and all fashionable people reprobate,
jealous of her sister-in-law's love for her own family, and, though unable to believe her brother
blameless, holding it as an axiom that married people could not fall out without faults on
both sides, and charging a large share of their unhappiness on the house of Fitzjocelyn.  Principle
had prevented her from endeavouring to weaken the little girl's affection to her mother; but
it had been her great object to train her up in habits of sober judgment, and freedom from
all the romance, poetry, and enthusiasm which she fancied had been injurious to Mrs. Ponsonby.
The soil was of the very kind that she would have chosen.  Mary was intelligent, but with more
sense than fancy, more practical than intellectual, and preferring the homely to the tasteful.
At school, study and accomplishments were mere tasks, her recreation was found in acts of kindness
to her companions, and her hopes were all fixed on the going out to Peru, to be useful to her
father and mother.  At seventeen she went; full of active, housewifely habits, with a clear
head, sound heart, and cramped mind, her spirits even and cheerful, but not high nor mirthful,
after ten years of evenings spent in needlework beside a dry maiden aunt.

Nor was the home she found at Lima likely to foster the joyousness of early girlhood.  Mr.
Ponsonby was excessively fond of her; but his affection to her only marked, by contrast, the
gulf between him and her mother.  There was no longer any open misconduct on his part, and
Mrs. Ponsonby was almost tremblingly attentive to his wishes; but he was chill and sarcastic
in his manner towards her, and her nervous attacks often betrayed that she had been made to
suffer in private for differences of opinion.  Health and spirits were breaking down; and,
though she never uttered a word of complaint, the sight of her sufferings was trying for a
warm-hearted young girl.

Mary's refuge was hearty affection to both parents.  She would not reason nor notice where
filial tact taught her that it was best to be ignorant; she charged all tracasseries on the
Peruvian republic, and set herself simply to ameliorate each vexation as it arose, and divert
attention from it without generalizing, even to herself, on the state of the family.  The English
comfort which she brought into the Limenian household was one element of peace; and her brisk,
energetic habits produced an air of ease and pleasantness that did much to make home agreeable
to her father, and removed many cares which oppressed her mother.  To her, Mary was all the
world-daughter, comforter, friend, and nurse, unfailing in deeds of love or words of cheer,
and removing all sense of dreariness and solitude. And Mary had found her mother all, and more
than all she remembered, and admired and loved her with a deep, quiet glow of intense affection.
There was so much call for Mary's actual exertion of various kinds, that there was little opportunity
for cultivating or enlarging her mind by books, though the scenes and circumstances around
her could not but take some effect. Still, at twenty-one she was so much what she had been
at seventeen--so staid, sensible, and practical, that Miss Ponsonby gladly pronounced her not
in the least spoilt.

Fain would her aunt have kept both her and her mother as her guests; but Mrs. Ponsonby had
permission to choose whatever residence best suited her, and felt that Bryanston-square and
Miss Ponsonby would be fatal to her harassed spirits.  She yearned after the home and companions
of her youth, and Miss Ponsonby could only look severe, talk of London doctors, and take Mary
aside to warn her against temptations from fashionable people.

Mary had been looking for the fashionable people ever since, and the first sign of them she
had seen, was the air and figure of her cousin Fitzjocelyn.  Probably good Aunt Melicent would
distrust him; and yet his odd startling talk, and the arch look of mischief in the corners
of his mouth and eyes, had so much likeness to the little Louis of old times, that she could
not look on him as a stranger nor as a formidable being; but was always recurring to the almost
monitorial sense of protection, with which she formerly used to regard him, when she shared
his nursery.

Her mother had cultivated her love for Ormersfield, and she was charmed by her visits to old
haunts, well remembering everything. She gladly recognised the little low-browed church, the
dumpy tower, and grave-yard rising so high that it seemed to intend to bury the church itself,
and permitted many a view, through the lattices, of the seats, and the Fitzjocelyn hatchments
and monuments.

She lingered after church on Sunday afternoon with Mrs. Frost to look at Lady Fitzjocelyn's
monument.  It was in the chancel, a recumbent figure in white marble, as if newly fallen asleep,
and with the lovely features chiselled from a cast taken after death had fixed and ennobled
their beauty.

'It is just like Louis's profile!' said Mrs. Frost, as they came out.

'Well,' said Louis, who was nearer than she was aware, 'I hope at least no one will make me
the occasion of a lion when I am dead.'

'It is very beautiful,' said Mary.

'May be so; but the sentiment is destroyed by its having been six months in the Royal Academy,
number 16,136, and by seeing it down among the excursions in the Northwold Guide.'

'Louis, my dear, you should not be satirical on this,' said Mrs. Frost.

'I never meant it,' said Louis, 'but I never could love that monument. It used to oppress me
with a sense of having a white marble mother! And, seriously, it fills up the chancel as if
it were its show-room, according to our family tradition that the church is dedicated to the
Fitzjocelyns.  Living or dead, we have taken it all to ourselves.'

'It was a very fair, respectable congregation,' said his aunt.

'Exactly so.  That is my complaint.  Everything belonging to his lordship is respectable--except
his son.'

'Take care, Louis; here is Mary looking as if she would take you at your word.'

'Pray, Mary, do they let no one who is not respectable go to church in Peru?'

'I do not think you would change your congregation for the wretched crowds of brown beggars,'
said Mary.

'Would I not?' cried Louis.  'Oh! if the analogous class here in England could but feel that
the church was for them!--not driven out and thrust aside, by our respectability.'

'Marksedge to wit!' said a good-humoured voice, as Mr. Holdsworth, the young Vicar, appeared
at his own wicket, with a hearty greeting. 'I never hear those words without knowing where
you are, Fitzjocelyn.'

'I hope to be there literally some day this week,' said Louis.  'Will you walk with me?  I
want to ask old Madison how his grandson goes on. I missed going to see after the boy last
time I was at home.'

'I fear he has not been going on well, and have been sorry for it ever since,' said the Vicar.
'His master told me that he found him very idle and saucy.'

'People of that sort never know how to speak to a lad,' said Louis. 'It is their own rating
that they ought to blame.'

'Not Tom Madison, I know,' said Mr. Holdsworth, laughing.  'But I did not come out to combat
that point, but to inquire after the commissions you kindly undertook.'

'I have brought you such a set of prizes!  Red rubrics, red margins; and for the apparatus,
I have brought a globe with all the mountains in high relief;--yes, and an admirable physical
atlas, and a box of instruments and models for applying mathematics to mechanics.  We might
give evening lectures, and interest the young farmers.'

'Pray,' said the Vicar, with a sound of dismay, 'where may the bill be? I thought the limits
were two pounds eighteen.'

'Oh!  I take all that on myself.'

'We shall see,' said Mr. Holdsworth, not gratefully.  'Was Origen sent home in time for you
to bring?'

'There!' cried Louis, starting, 'Origen is lying on the very chair where I put him last January.
I will write to Jem Frost to-morrow to send him to the binder.'

'Is it of any use to ask for the music?'

'I assure you, Mr. Holdsworth, I am very sorry.  I'll write at once to Frost.'

'Then I am afraid the parish will not be reformed as you promised last Christmas,' said the
Vicar, turning, with a smile, to Mrs. Frost.  'We were to be civilized by weekly concerts in
the school.'

'What were you to play, Louis?' said Mrs. Frost, laughing.

'I was to imitate all the birds in the air at once,' said Louis, beginning to chirp like a
melee of sparrows, turning it into the croak of a raven, and breaking off suddenly with, 'I
beg your pardon--I forgot it was Sunday! Indeed, Mr. Holdsworth, I can say no more than that
I was a wretch not to remember.  Next time I'll write it all down in the top of my hat, with
a pathetic entreaty that if my hat be stolen, the thief shall fulfil the commissions, and punctually
send in the bill to the Rev. W. B. Holdsworth!'

'I shall hardly run the risk,' said Mr. Holdsworth, smiling, as he parted with them, and disappeared
within his clipped yew hedges.

'Poor, ill-used Mr. Holdsworth!' cried Aunt Catharine.

'Yes, it was base to forget the binding of that book,' said Louis, gravely.  'I wish I knew
what amends to make.'

'You owe amends far more for making a present of a commission.  I used to do the like, to save
myself trouble, till I came down in the world, and then I found it had been a mere air de grand
seigneur.'

'I should not dare to serve you or Jem so; but I thought the school was impersonal, and could
receive a favour.'

'It is no favour, unless you clearly define where the commission ended and the gift began.
Careless benefits oblige no one.'

Fitzjocelyn received his aunt's scoldings very prettily.  His manner to her was a becoming
mixture of the chivalrous, the filial, and the playful.  Mary watched it as a new and pretty
picture.  All his confidence, too, seemed to be hers; but who could help pouring out his heart
to the ever-indulgent, sympathizing Aunt Catharine?  It was evidently the greatest treat to
him to have her for his guest, and his attention to her extended even to the reading a sermon
to her in the evening, to spare her eyes; a measure so entirely after Aunt Melicent's heart,
that Mary decided that even she would not think her cousin so hopelessly fashionable.

Goodnatured he was, without doubt; for as the three ladies were sitting down to a sociable
morning of work and reading aloud, he came in to say he was going to see after Tom Madison,
and to ask if there were any commands for Northwold, with his checked shooting-jacket pockets
so puffed out that his aunt began patting and inquiring. 'Provisions for the House Beautiful,'
he said, as forth came on the one side a long rough brown yam.  'I saw it at a shop in London,'
he said, 'and thought the Faithfull sisters would like to be reminded of their West Indian
feasts.'  And, 'to make the balance true,' he had in the other pocket a lambswool shawl of
gorgeous dyes, with wools to make the like, and the receipt, in what he called 'female algebra,'
the long knitting-pins under his arm like a riding-whip.  He explained that he thought it would
be a winter's work for Miss Salome to imitate it, and that she would succour half-a-dozen families
with the proceeds; and Mrs. Ponsonby was pleased to hear him speak so affectionately of the
two old maiden sisters.  They were the nieces of an old gentleman to whom the central and handsomest
house of Dynevor Terrace had been let.  He had an annuity which had died with him, and they
inherited very little but the furniture with which they had lived on in the same house, in
hopes of lodgers, and paying rent to Mrs. Frost when they had any.  There was a close friendship
and perfect understanding between her and them, and, as she truly assured them, full and constant
rent could hardly have done her as much good as their neighbourhood.  Miss Mercy was the Sister
of Charity of all Northwold; Miss Salome, who was confined to her chair by a complaint in her
knee, knitted and made fancy-works, the sale of which furnished funds for her charities.  She
was highly educated, and had a great knowledge of natural history.  Fitzjocelyn had given their
abode the name of the House Beautiful, as being redolent of the essence of the Pilgrim's Progress;
and the title was so fully accepted by their friends, that the very postman would soon know
it. He lingered, discoursing on this topic, while Mary repacked his parcels, and his aunt gave
him a message to Jane Beckett, to send the carpenter to No. 5 before Mary's visit of inspection;
but she prophesied that he would forget; and, in fact, it was no good augury that he left the
knitting-pins behind him on the table, and Mary was only just in time to catch him with them
at the front door.

'Thank you, Mary--you are the universal memory,' he said.  'What rest you must give my father's
methodical spirit!  I saw you pile up all those Blackwoods of mine this morning, just as he
was going to fall upon them.'

'If you saw it, I should have expected you to do it yourself,' said Mary, in her quaint downright
manner.

'Never expect me to do what is expected,' answered he.

'Do you do that because it is not expected?' said Mary, feeling almost as if he were beyond
the pale of reason, as she saw him adjusting a plant of groundsel in his cap.

'It is for the dicky-bird at my aunt's.  There's no lack of it at the Terrace; but it is an
old habit, and there always was an illusion that Ormersfield groundsel is a superior article.'

'I suppose that is why you grow go much.'

'Are you a gardener?  Some day we will go to work, clear the place, and separate the botanical
from the intrusive!'

'I should like it, of all things!'

'I'll send the horse round to the stable, and begin at once!' exclaimed Louis, all eagerness;
but Mary demurred, as she had promised to read to her mother and aunt some of their old favourites,
Madame de Sevigne's letters, and his attention flew off to his restless steed, which he wanted
her to admire.

'My Yeomanry charger,' he said.  'We turn out five troopers.  I hope you will be here when
we go out, for going round to Northwold brought me into a direful scrape when I went to exhibit
myself to the dear old Terrace world.  My father said it was an unworthy ambition.  What would
he have thought, if he had seen Jane stroking me down with the brush on the plea of dust, but
really on the principle of stroking a dog!  Good old Jane!  Have you seen her yet?  Has she
talked to you about Master Oliver?'

The horse became so impatient, that Mary had no time for more than a monosyllable, before Louis
was obliged to mount and ride off; and he was seen no more till just before dinner, when, with
a shade of French malice, Mrs. Frost inquired about Jane and the carpenter: she had seen the
cap, still decorated with groundsel, lying in the hall, and had a shrewd suspicion, but the
answer went beyond her expectations--'Ah!' he said, 'it is all the effect of the Norman mania!'

'What have you been doing?  What is the matter?' she cried, alarmed.

'The matter is not with me, but with the magistrates.'

'My dear Louis, don't look so very wise and capable, or I shall think it a very bad scrape
indeed!  Pray tell me what you have been about.'

'You know Sir Gilbert Brewster and Mr. Shoreland are rabid about the little brook between their
estates, of which each wishes to arrogate to himself the exclusive fishing.  Their keepers
watch like the Austrian guard on the Danube, in a life of perpetual assault and battery.  Last
Saturday, March 3rd, 1847, one Benjamin Hodgekin, aged fifteen, had the misfortune to wash
his feet in the debateable water; the belligerent powers made common cause, and haled the wretch
before the Petty Sessions.  His mother met me.  She lived in service here till she married
a man at Marksedge, now dead.  This poor boy is an admirable son, the main stay of the family,
who must starve if he were imprisoned, and she declared, with tears in her eyes, that she could
not bear for a child of hers to be sent to gaol, and begged me to speak to the gentlemen.'
He started up with kindling eyes and vehement manner.  'I went to the Justice-room!'

'My dear! with the groundsel?'

'And the knitting-needles!'

On rushed the narration, unheeding trifles.  'There was the array: Mr. Calcott in the chair,
and old Freeman, and Captain Shaw, and fat Sir Gilbert, and all the rest, met to condemn this
wretched widow's son for washing his feet in a gutter!'

'Pray what said the indictment?' asked Mrs. Ponsonby.

'Oh, that he had killed an infant trout of the value of three farthings!  Three giant keepers
made oath to it, but I had his own mother's word that he was washing his feet!'

No one could help laughing, but Fitzjocelyn was far past perceiving any such thing.  'Urge
what I would, they fined him.  I talked to old Brewster!  I appealed to his generosity, if
there be room for generosity about a trout no bigger than a gudgeon!  I talked to Mr. Calcott,
who, I thought, had more sense, but Justice Shallow would have been more practicable!  No one
took a rational view but Ramsbotham of the factory, a very sensible man, with excellent feeling.
When it is recorded in history, who will believe that seven moral, well-meaning men agreed
in condemning a poor lad of fifteen to a fine of five shillings, costs three-and-sixpence--a
sum he could no more pay than I the National Debt, and with the alternative of three months'
imprisonment, branding and contaminating for life, and destroying all self-respect?  I paid
the fine, so there is one act of destruction the less on the heads of the English squirearchy.'

'Act of destruction!'

'The worst destruction is to blast a man's character because the love of adventure is strong
within him--!'

He was at this point when Lord Ormersfield entered, and after his daily civil ceremonious inquiries
of the ladies whether they had walked or driven out, he turned to his son, saying, 'I met Mr.
Calcott just now, and heard from him that he had been sorry to convict a person in whom you
took interest, a lad from Marksedge. What did you know of him?'

'I was prompted by common justice and humanity,' said Louis.  'My protection was claimed for
the poor boy, as the son of an old servant of ours.'

'Indeed!  I think you must have been imposed on.  Mr. Calcott spoke of the family as notorious
poachers.'

'Find a poor fellow on the wrong side of a hedge, and not a squire but will swear that he is
a hardened ruffian!'

'Usually with reason,' said the Earl.  'Pray when did this person's parents allege that they
had been in my service?'

'It was his mother.  Her name was Blackett, and she left us on her marriage with one of the
Hodgekins.'

Lord Ormersfield rang the bell, and Frampton, the butler and confidential servant, formed on
his own model, made his appearance.

'Do you know whether a woman of the name of Blackett ever lived in service here?'

'Not that I am aware of, my Lord.  I will ascertain the fact.'

In a few moments Frampton returned.  'Yes, my Lord, a girl named Blackett was once engaged
to help in the scullery, but was discharged for dishonesty at the end of a month.'

'Did not Frampton know that that related to me?' said Louis, sotto voce, to his aunt.  'Did
he not trust that he was reducing me from a sea anemone to a lump of quaking jelly?'

So far from this consummation, Lord Fitzjocelyn looked as triumphant as Don Quixote liberating
Gines de Pasamonte.  He and his father might have sat for illustrations of

          'Youth is full of pleasance,
           Age is full of care,'

as they occupied the two ends of the dinner-table; the Earl concealing anxiety and vexation,
under more than ordinary punctilious politeness; the Viscount doing his share of the honours
with easy, winning grace and attention, and rattling on in an under-tone of lively conversation
with Aunt Catharine.  Mary was silently amazed at her encouraging him; but perhaps she could
not help spoiling him the more, because there was a storm impending.  At least, as soon as
she was in the drawing-room, she became restless and nervous, and said that she wished his
father could see that speaking sternly to him never did any good; besides, it was mere inconsiderateness,
the excess of chivalrous compassion.

Mrs. Ponsonby said she thought young men's ardour more apt to be against than for the poacher.

'I must confess,' said Aunt Catherine, with all the reluctance of a high-spirited Dynevor,--'I
must confess that Louis is no sportsman! He was eager about it once, till he had become a good
shot; and then it lost all zest for him, and he prefers his own vagaries.  He never takes a
gun unless James drives him out; and, oddly enough, his father is quite vexed at his indifference,
as if it were not manly. If his father would only understand him!'

The specimen of that day had almost made Mrs. Ponsonby fear that there was nothing to understand,
and that only dear Aunt Kitty's affection could perceive anything but amiable folly, and it
was not much better when the young gentleman reappeared, looking very debonnaire, and, sitting
down beside Mrs. Frost, said, in a voice meant for her alone--'Henry IV; Part II., the insult
to Chief Justice Gascoigne.  My father will presently enter and address you:

                         'O that it could be proved
      That some night-tripping fairy had exchanged
      In cradle-cloths our children as they lay,--
      Call'd yours Fitzjocelyn--mine, Frost Dynevor!'

'For shame, Louis!  I shall have to call you Fitzjocelyn!  You are behaving very ill.'

'Insulting the English constitution in the person of seven squires.'

'Don't, my dear!  It was the very thing to vex your father that you should have put yourself
in such a position.'

'Bearding the Northwold bench with a groundsel plume and a knitting-needle:

     'With a needle for a sword, and a thimble for a hat,
      Wilt thou fight a traverse with the Castle cat?'

The proper champion in such a cause, since 'What cat's averse to fish?''

'No, Louis dear,' said his aunt, struggling like a girl to keep her countenance; 'this is no
time for nonsense.  One would think you had no feeling for your father.'

'My dear aunt, I can't go to gaol like Prince Hal.  I do assure you, I did not assault the
bench with the knitting-pins.  What am I to do?'

'Not set at nought your father's displeasure.'

'I can't help it,' said he, almost sadly, though half smiling.  'What would become of me if
I tried to support the full weight? Interfering with institutions, ruining reputation, blasting
bulwarks, patronizing poachers, vituperating venerated--'

'Quite true,' cried Aunt Catherine, with spirit.  'You know you had no business there, lecturing
a set of men old enough to be your grandfathers, and talking them all to death, no doubt.'

'Well, Aunt Kitty, if oppression maddens the wise, what must it do to the foolish?'

'If you only allow that it was foolish--'

'No; I had rather know whether it was wrong.  I believe I was too eager, and not respectful
enough to the old squire: and, on reflection, it might have been a matter of obedience to my
father, not to interfere with the prejudices of true-born English magistrates.  Yes, I was
wrong: I would have owned it sooner, but for the shell he fired over my head.  And for the
rest, I don't know how to repent of having protested against tyranny.'

There was something redeeming in the conclusion, and it was a comfort, for it was impossible
to retain anger with one so gently, good-humouredly polite and attentive.

A practical answer to the champion was not long in coming.  He volunteered the next day to
walk to Northwold with Mrs. Frost and Mary, who wanted to spend the morning in selecting a
house in Dynevor Terrace, and to be fetched home by-and-by, when Mrs. Ponsonby took her airing.
Two miles seemed nothing to Aunt Catharine, who accepted her nephew's arm for love, and not
for need, as he discoursed of all the animals that might be naturalized in England, obtained
from Mary an account of the llamas of the Andes, and rode off upon a scheme of an importation
to make the fortune of Marksedge by a manufacture of Alpaca umbrellas.

Meantime, he must show the beautiful American ducks which he hoped to naturalize on the pond
near the keeper's lodge: but, whistle and call as he would, nothing showed itself but screaming
Canada geese.  He ran round, pulled out a boat half full of water, and, with a foot on each
side, paddled across to a bushy island in the centre,--but in vain. The keeper's wife, who
had the charge over them, came out: 'Oh, my Lord, I am so sorry!  They pretty ducks!'

'Ha! the foxes?'

'I wish it was, my Lord; but it is they poachers out at Marksedge that are so daring, they
would come anywheres--and you see the ducks would roost up in the trees, and you said I was
not to shut 'em up at night. My master was out up by Beech hollow; I heerd a gun, and looked
out; I seen a man and a boy--I'd take my oath it was young Hodgekin.  They do say Nanny Hodgekin,
she as was one of the Blacketts, whose husband was transported, took in two ducks next morning
to Northwold.  Warren couldn't make nothing of it; but if ever he meets that Hodgekin again,
he says he shall catch it!'

'Well, Mrs. Warren, it can't be helped--thank you for the good care you took of the poor ducks,'
said Louis, kindly; and as he walked on through the gate, he gave a long sigh, and said, 'My
dainty ducks! So there's an end of them, and all their tameness!'  But the smile could not
but return.  'It is lucky the case does not come before the bench! but really that woman deserves
a medal for coolness!'

'I suppose,' said Mary, 'she could have paid the fine with the price of the ducks.'

'Ah! the beauties!  I wish Mr. Hodgekin had fallen on the pheasants instead!  However, I am
thankful he and Warren did not come to a collision about them.  I am always expecting that,
having made those Marksedge people thieves, murder will be the next consequence.'

A few seconds sufficed to bring the ludicrous back.  'How pat it comes! Mary, did you prime
Mrs. Warren, or did Frampton?'

'I believe you had rather laugh at yourself than at any one else,' exclaimed his aunt, who
felt baffled at having thrown away her compassion.

'Of course.  One knows how much can be borne.  Why, Mary, has that set you studying,--do you
dissent?'

'I was thinking whether it is the best thing to be always ready to laugh at oneself,' said
Mary.  'Does it always help in mending?'

''Don't care' came to a bad end,' said Louis; 'but on the other hand, care killed a cat--so
there are two sides to the question.'

While Mary was feeling disappointed at his light tone, he changed it to one that was almost
mournful.  'The worst of it is, that 'don't care' is my refuge.  Whatever I do care about is
always thwarted by Frampton or somebody, and being for ever thrown over, I have only to fall
as softly as I can.'

'You know, my dear,' said Mrs. Frost, 'that your father has no command of means to gratify you.'

'There are means enough for ourselves,' said Louis; 'that is the needful duty.  What merely
personal indulgence did I ever ask for that was refused me?'

'If that is all you have to complain of, I can't pity you,' said Mary.

'Listen, Mary.  Let me wish for a horse, there it is!  Let me wish for a painted window, we
can't afford it, though, after all, it would not eat; but horses are an adjunct of state and
propriety.  So again, the parish feasted last 18th of January, because I came of age, and it
was proper; while if I ask that our people may be released from work on Good Friday or Ascension
Day, it is thought outrageous.'

'If I remember right, my dear,' interposed his aunt, 'you wanted no work to be done on any
saint's-day.  Was there not a scheme that Mr. Holdsworth called the cricket cure!'

'That may yet be.  No one knows the good a few free days would do the poor.  But I developed
my plan too rapidly!  I'll try again for their church-going on Good Friday.'

'I think you ought to succeed there.'

'I know how it will be.  My father will ring, propound the matter to Frampton; the answer will
be, 'Quite impracticable, my Lord,' and there will be an end of it.'

'Perhaps not.  At least it will have been considered,' said Mary.

'True,' said Louis; 'but you little know what it is to have a Frampton! If he be a fair sample
of prime ministers, no wonder Princes of Wales go into the opposition!'

'I thought Frampton was a very valuable superior servant.'

'Exactly so.  That is the worst of it.  He is supreme authority, and well deserves it.  When
la Grande Mademoiselle stood before the gates of Orleans calling to the sentinel to open them,
he never stirred a step, but replied merely with profound bows.  That is my case.  I make a
request, am answered, 'Yes, my Lord;' find no results, repeat the process, and at the fourth
time am silenced with, 'Quite impracticable my Lord.''

'Surely Frampton is respectful?'

'It is his very essence.  He is a thorough aristocrat, respecting himself, and therefore respecting
all others as they deserve.  He respects a Viscount Fitzjocelyn as an appendage nearly as needful
as the wyverns on each side of the shield; but as to the individual holding that office, he
regards him much as he would one of the wyverns with a fool's-cap on.'

And with those words, Fitzjocelyn had sprung into the hedge to gather the earliest willow-catkins,
and came down dilating on their silvery, downy buds and golden blossoms, and on the pleasure
they would give Miss Faithfull, till Mary, who had been beginning to compassionate him, was
almost vexed to think her pity wasted on grievances of mere random talk.

Warm and kindly was his greeting of his aunt's good old servant, Jane Beckett, whom Mary was
well pleased to meet as one of the kind friends of her childhood.  The refinement that was
like an atmosphere around Mrs. Frost, seemed to have extended even to her servants; for Jane,
though she could hardly read, and carried her accounts in her head, had manners of a gentle
warmth and propriety that had a grace of their own, even in her racy, bad grammar; and there
was no withstanding the merry smile that twitched up one side of her mouth, while her eyes
twinkled in the varied moods prompted by an inexhaustible fund of good temper, sympathy, and
affection, but the fulness of her love was for the distant 'Master Oliver,' whose young nursery-maid
she had been.  Her eyes winked between tears and smiles when she heard that Miss Mary had seen
him but five months ago, and she inquired after him, gloried in his prosperity, and talked
of his coming home, with far less reserve than his mother had done.

Mary was struck, also, with the pretty, modest looks of the little underling, and remarked
on them as they proceeded to the inspection of the next house.

'Yes,' said Louis, 'Charlotte is something between a wood sorrel and a five-plume moth.  Tom
Madison, as usual, shows exquisite taste. She is a perfect Lady of Eschalott.'

'Now, Louis!' said his aunt, standing still, and really looking annoyed, 'you know I cannot
encourage any such thing.  Poor little Charlotte is an orphan, and I am all the more responsible
for her.'

'There's a chivalry in poor Tom--'

'Nonsense!' said his aunt, as if resolved not to hear him out, because afraid of herself. 
'Don't say any more about it.  I wish I had never allowed of his bringing your messages.'

'Who set him down in the kitchen to drink a cup of beer?' said Louis, mischievously.

'Ah! well! one comfort is, that girls never care for boys of the same age,' replied Aunt Catharine,
as she turned the key, and admitted them into No. 7; when Fitzjocelyn confused Mary's judgment
with his recommendations, till Aunt Catharine pointing out the broken shutter, and asking if
he would not have been better employed in fetching the carpenter, than in hectoring the magistrates,
he promised to make up for it, fetched a piece of wood and James's tools, and was quickly at
work, his Aunt only warning him, that if he lost Jem's tools she would not say it was her fault.

By the time Mary's imagination had portrayed what paper, paint, furniture, and habitation might
make the house, and had discerned how to arrange a pretty little study in case of her father's
return; he had completed the repair in a workmanlike manner, and putting two fingers to his
cap, asked, 'Any other little job for me, ma'am?'

Of course, he forgot the tools, till shamed by Mary's turning back for them, and after a merry
luncheon, served up in haste by Jane, they betook themselves to Number 8, where the Miss Faithfulls
were seated at a dessert of hard biscuits and water, of neither of which they ever partook:
they only adhered to the hereditary institution of sitting for twenty minutes after dinner
with their red and purple doileys before them.

Mary seemed to herself carried back fourteen years, and to understand why her childish fancy
had always believed Christiana's Mercy a living character, when she found herself in the calm,
happy little household. The chief change was that she must now bend down, instead of reaching
up, to receive the kind embraces.  Even the garments seemed unchanged, the dark merino gowns,
black silk aprons, white cap-ribbons, the soft little Indian shawl worn by the elder sister,
the ribbon bow by the younger, distinctions that used to puzzle her infant speculation, not
aware that the coloured bow was Miss Mercy's ensign of youth, and that its absence would have
made Miss Salome feel aged indeed.  The two sisters were much alike--but the younger was the
more spare, shrivelled up into a cheery nonpareil, her bloom changed into something quite as
fresh and healthful, and her blithe tripping step always active, except when her fingers were
nimbly taking their turn.  Miss Salome had become more plump, her cheek was smoother and paler,
her eye more placid, her air that of a patient invalid, and her countenance more intellectual
than her sister's. She said less about their extreme enjoyment of the yam, and while Mrs. Frost
and Mary held counsel with Miss Mercy on servants and furniture, there was a talk on entomology
going on between her and Fitzjocelyn.

It was very pretty to see him with the old ladies, so gently attentive, without patronizing,
and they, though evidently doting on him, laughing at him, and treating him like a spoilt child.
He insisted on Mary's seeing their ordinary sitting room, which nature had intended for a housekeeper's
room, but which ladylike inhabitants had rendered what he called the very 'kernel of the House
Beautiful.' There were the stands of flowers in the window; the bullfinch scolding in his cage,
the rare old shells and china on the old-fashioned cabinets that Mary so well remembered; and
the silk patchwork sofa-cover, the old piano, and Miss Faithfull's arm chair by the fire, her
little table with her beautiful knitting, and often a flower or insect that she was copying;
for she still drew nicely; and she smiled and consented, as Louis pulled out her portfolios,
life-long collections of portraits of birds, flowers, or insects. Her knitting found a sale
at the workshop, where the object was well known, and the proceeds were diffused by her sister,
and whether she deserved her name might be guessed by the basket of poor people's stores beside
her chair.

Miss Mercy was well known in every dusky Northwold lane or alley, where she always found or
made a welcome for herself.  The kindly counsel and ready hand were more potent than far larger
means without them.

Such neighbours were in themselves a host, and Mary and her mother both felt as if they had
attained a region of unwonted tranquillity and repose, when they had agreed to rent No. 5,
Dynevor Terrace, from the ensuing Lady-day, and to take possession when carpenters and upholsterers
should have worked their will.

Louis was half-way home when he exclaimed, 'There! I have missed Tom Madison a second time.
When shall I ever remember him at the right time?'

Little did Louis guess the effect his neglect was taking!  Charlotte Arnold might have told,
for Mrs. Martha had brought in stories of his unsteadiness and idle habits that confirmed her
in her obedience to Jane.  She never went out alone in his leisure hours; never looked for
him in returning from church--alas! that was not the place to look for him now.  And yet she
could not believe him such a very bad boy as she was told he had become.

CHAPTER V.

THE TWO MINISTERS.
                                     MERRICK.

Mrs. Ponsonby had seen in the tropics birds of brilliant hues, that even, whilst the gazer
pronounced them all one beaming tint of gorgeous purple, would give one flutter, and in another
light would flash with golden green or fiery scarlet.  No less startling and unexpected were
the aspects of Lord Fitzjocelyn, 'Every thing by starts, and nothing long;' sometimes absorbed
in study, sometimes equally ardent over a childish game; wild about philanthropic plans, and
apparently forgetting them the instant a cold word had fallen on them; attempting everything,
finishing nothing; dipping into every kind of book, and forsaking it after a cursory glance;
ever busy, yet ever idle; full of desultory knowledge, ranging through all kinds of reading
and natural history, and still more full of talk.  This last was perhaps his most decided gift.
To any one, of whatever degree, he would talk, he could hardly have been silent ten minutes
with any human being, except Frampton or his father, and whether deep reflections or arrant
nonsense came out of his mouth, seemed an even chance, though both alike were in the same soft
low voice, and with the same air of quaint pensive simplicity.  He was exceedingly provoking,
and yet there was no being provoked with him!

He was so sincere, affectionate, and obliging, that not to love him was impossible, yet that
love only made his faults more annoying, and Mrs. Ponsonby could well understand his father's
perpetual restless anxiety, for his foibles were exactly of the sort most likely to tease such
a man as the Earl, and the most positively unsatisfactory part of his character was the insouciance
that he displayed when his trifling or his wild projects had given umbrage.  Yet, even here,
she could not but feel a hope, such as it was, that the carelessness might be the effect of
want of sympathy and visible affection from his father, whose very anxiety made him the more
unbending; and that, what a worse temper might have resented, rendered a good one gaily reckless
and unheeding.

She often wondered whether she should try to give a hint--but Lord Ormersfield seemed to dread
leading to the subject, although on all else that interested him he came to her as in old times,
and seemed greatly refreshed and softened by her companionship.

An old friend and former fellow-minister had proposed spending a night at Ormersfield.  He
was the person whom the Earl most highly esteemed, and, in his own dignified way, he was solicitous
that the household should be in more than usually perfect order, holding a long conference
with the man of whom he was sure, Frampton.  Would that he could have been equally sure of
his son!  He looked at him almost wistfully several times during breakfast, and at last, as
they rose, gave an exhortation 'that he would be punctual to dinner at half-past seven, which
would give him ample time, and he hoped he would be--' He paused for a word, and his son supplied
it.  'On my good behaviour, I understand.'  With that he walked off, leaving Lord Ormersfield
telling Mrs. Ponsonby that it was the first introduction, as he had 'for various reasons' thought
it undesirable to bring Fitzjocelyn early to London, and betraying his own anxiety as to the
impression he might produce on Sir Miles Oakstead.  His own perplexity and despondency showed
themselves in his desire to view his son with the eyes of others, and he also thought the tenor
of Fitzjocelyn's future life might be coloured by his friend's opinion.

Evening brought the guest.  Mrs. Ponsonby was not well enough to appear at dinner, but Mary
and Mrs. Frost, pleased to see an historical character, were in the drawing-room, enjoying
Sir Miles's agreeable conversation, until they caught certain misgivings reflected in each
other's looks, as time wore on and nothing had been seen or heard of Louis.  The half-hour
struck; the Earl waited five minutes, then rang the bell.  'Is Lord Fitzjocelyn come in?'

'No, my Lord.'

'Bring in the dinner.'

Mary longed to fly in search of him, and spare further vexation.  She had assumed all an elder
sister's feelings, and suffered for him as she used to do, when he was in disgrace and would
not heed it.  She heard no more of the conversation, and was insensible to the honour of going
in to dinner with the late Secretary of State, as she saw the empty place at the table.

The soup was over, when she was aware of a step in the hall, and beside her stood a grey figure,
bespattered with mud, shading his eyes with his hand, as if dazzled by the lights.  'I beg
your pardon,' were the words, 'but I was obliged to go to Northwold.  I have shot a rose-coloured
pastor!'

'Shot him!' cried Mary.  'Was he much hurt?'

'Killed!  I took him to Miss Faithfull, to be sketched before he is stuffed--'

A clearer view of the company, a wave of the hand from the Earl, and the young gentleman was
gone.  Next he opened the library door, saying, 'Here's my pretty behaviour!'

'Louis! what is the matter?' cried Mrs. Ponsonby.

'I entirely forgot the right honourable, and marched into the dining-room to tell Aunt Catharine
that I have killed a rose-coloured pastor.'

'Killed what?'

'A bird, hardly ever seen in England.  I spied him in the fir-wood, went to Warren for a gun,
brought him down, and walked on to the House Beautiful, where Miss Faithfull was enchanted.
She will copy him, and send him to the bird-stuffer.  I looked in to give directions, and old
Jenyns was amazed; he never knew one shot here before, so early in the year too.  He says we
must send the account to the Ornithological--'

'Do you know how wet you are?  exclaimed Mrs. Ponsonby, seeing rivulets dropping from his coat.

'I see.  It rained all the way home, and was so dark, I could not see the footpath; and when
I came in, my eyes were blinded by the light, and my head so full of the pastor, that the other
minister never occurred to me, and remains under the impression that I have confessed a sacrilegious
murder.'

'You really are incorrigible!' cried Mrs. Ponsonby.  'Why are you not dressing for dinner?'

'Because you are going to give me a cup of your tea.'

'Certainly not.  I shall begin to think you purposely mortified your father, when you know
he wanted you to be reasonable.'

'The lower species never show off well to strangers,' said Fitzjocelyn, coolly; but, as he
lighted his candle, he added, with more candour, 'I beg your pardon--indeed I did not do this
on purpose, but don't say anything about appearances--there's something in me that is sure
to revolt.'

So noiselessly that the moment was unknown, the vacant chair was filled by a gentleman irreproachably
attired, his face glowing with exercise, or with what made him very debonnaire and really silent,
dining rapidly and unobtrusively, and never raising his eyes even to his aunt, probably intending
thus to remain all the evening; but presently Sir Miles turned to him and said, 'Pray satisfy
my curiosity.  Who is the rose-coloured pastor?'

Louis raised his eyes, and meeting a pleasing, sensible face, out beamed his arch look of suppressed
fun as he answered, 'He is not at all clerical.  He is otherwise called the rose-coloured ouzel
or starling.'

'Whence is that other startling name?'

'From his attending flocks of sheep, on the same mission as jackdaws fulfil here--which likewise
have an ecclesiastical reputation--

     'A great frequenter of the church.''

Fearing alike nonsense and ornithology, Lord Ormersfield changed the subject, and Louis subsided,
but when the gentlemen came into the drawing-room, Mrs. Ponsonby was surprised to see him taking
a fair share, and no more, of the conversation.  Some information had been wanted about the
terms of labour in the mining districts, and Louis's visit to Illershall enabled him to throw
light on the subject, with much clearness and accuracy.  Sir Miles had more literature than
Lord Ormersfield, and was more used to young men; and he began to draw Fitzjocelyn out, with
complete success.  Louis fully responded to the touch, and without a notion that he was showing
himself to the best advantage, he yielded to the pleasure, and for once proved of what he was
capable--revealing unawares an unusual amount of intelligence and observation, and great power
of expression.  Not even his aunt had ever seen him appear so much like a superior man, and
the only alloy was his father's, ill-repressed dread lest he should fall on dangerous ground,
and commit himself either to his wildly philanthropical or extravagantly monarchical views,
whichever might happen to be in the ascendant.  However, such shoals were not approached, nor
did Louis ever plunge out of his depth.  The whole of his manner and demeanour were proofs
that, in his case, much talk sprang from exuberance of ideas, not from self-conceit.

He was equally good in the morning: he had risen early to hunt up some information which Sir
Miles wanted, and the clearness and readiness with which he had found it were wonderful.  The
guest was delighted with him; gave him a warm invitation to Oakstead, and on being left alone
with Mrs. Ponsonby, whom he had formerly known, expressed his admiration of his friend's son--as
a fine, promising young man, of great ability and originality, and, what was still more remarkable,
of most simple, natural manners, perfectly free from conceit.  He seemed the more amazed, when
he found, what he would hardly believe, that Fitzjocelyn was twenty-one, and had nearly finished
his university education.

The liking was mutual.  No sooner had Sir Miles departed, than Louis came to the library in
a rapture, declaring that here was the refreshing sight of a man unspoilt by political life,
which usually ate out the hearts of people.

Mary smiled at this, and told him that he was talking 'like an old statesman weary of the world.'

'One may be weary of the world beforehand as well as after,' said he.

'That does not seem worth while,' said Mary.

'No,' he said, 'but one's own immediate look-out may not be flattering, whatever the next turn
may bring;' and he took up the newspaper, and began to turn it over.  ''As butler--as single-handed
man--as clerk and accountant.'  There, those are the lucky men, with downright work, and some
one to work for.  Or, just listen to this!' and he plunged into a story of some heroic conduct
during a shipwreck.  While he was reading it aloud, with kindling eyes and enthusiastic interest,
his father opened the door.  'Louis,' he said, 'if you are doing nothing, I should be obliged
if you would make two copies of this letter.'

Louis glanced at the end of what he was reading, laid the paper down, and opened a blotting-book.

'You had better come into the study, or you will not write correctly.'

'I can write, whatever goes on.'

'I particularly wish this to be legible and accurate.  You have begun too low down.'

Louis took another sheet.

'That pen is not fit to write with.'

'The pens are delusions,' said Louis, trying them round, in an easy, idle way: 'I never could
mend a quill!  How is this steel one? Refuses to recognise the purpose of his existence.  Aunt
Catherine, do you still forbid steel pens in your school?  If so, it must be the solitary instance.
How geese must cackle blessings on the inventor! He should have a testimonial--a silver inkstand
representing the goose that laid the golden eggs,--and all writing-masters should subscribe.
Ha! where did this pen come from?  Mary, were you the bounteous mender!  A thousand thanks.'

If Louis fretted his father by loitering and nonsense, his father was no less trying by standing
over him with advice and criticisms which would have driven most youths beyond patience, but
which he bore with constant good-humour, till his father returned to the study, when he exclaimed,
'Now, Mary, if you like to finish the wreck, it will not interrupt me.  This is mere machine-work.'

'Thank you,' said Mary; 'I should like it better afterwards.  Do you think I might do one copy
for you?  Or would it not suit Lord Ormersfield?'

Louis made polite demurs, but she overruled them and began.

He stretched himself, took up his Times, and skimmed the remaining incidents of the shipwreck,
till he was shamed by seeing Mary half-way down the first page, when he resumed his pen, overtook
her, and then relapsed into talk, till Mrs. Frost fairly left the room, to silence him.

As the two copies were completed, Lord Ormersfield returned; and Mary, with many apologies,
presented her copy, and received most gracious thanks and compliments on her firm, clear writing,
a vexation to her rather than otherwise, since 'Fitzjocelyn' was called to account for dubious
scrawls, errors, and erasures.

He meekly took another sheet, consoling himself, however, by saying, 'I warn you that pains
will only make it Miss Fanny.'

'What do you mean?'

As if glad to be instigated, he replied, 'Did you never hear of my signature being mistaken
by an ingenious person, who addressed his answer to 'Miss Fanny Jocelyn?  Why, Fanny has been
one of Jem's regular names for me ever since!  I have the envelope somewhere as a curiosity.
I'll show it to you, Mary.'

'You seem to be proud of it!' exclaimed his father, nearly out of patience.  'Pray tell me
whether you intend to copy this creditably or not.'

'I will endeavour, but the Fates must decide.  I can scrawl, or, with pains, I can imitate
Miss Fanny; but the other alternative only comes in happy moments.'

'Do you mean that you cannot write well if you choose?'

'It is like other arts--an inspiration.  Dogberry was deep when he said it came by nature.'

'Then make no more attempts.  No.  That schoolgirl's niggle is worse than the first.'

'Fanny, as I told you,' said Louis, looking vacantly up in resigned despair, yet not without
the lurking expression of amusement, 'I will try again.'

'No, I thank you.  I will have no more time wasted.'

Louis passively moved to the window, where he exclaimed that he saw Aunt Catharine sunning
herself in the garden, and must go and help her.

'Did you ever see anything like that?' cried Lord Ormersfield, thoroughly moved to displeasure.

'There was at least good-humour,' said Mrs. Ponsonby.  'Pardon me, there was almost as much
to try his temper as yours.'

'He is insensible!'

'I think not.  A word from Aunt Catharine rules him.'

'Though you counselled it, Mary, I doubt whether her training has answered.  Henry Frost should
have been a warning.'

Mary found herself blundering in her new copy, and retreated with it to the study, while her
mother made answer: 'I do not repent of my advice. The affection between him and Aunt Catherine
is the greatest blessing to him.'

'Poor boy!' said his father, forgetting his letters as he stood pondering.  Mrs. Ponsonby seized
the moment for reporting Sir Miles's opinion, but the Earl did not betray his gratification.
'First sight!' he said.  'Last night and this afternoon he is as unlike as these are,' and
he placed before her Louis's unlucky copies, together with a letter written in a bold, manly
hand.  'Three different men might have written these!  And he pretends he cannot write like
this, if he please!'

'I have no doubt it is to a certain extent true.  Yes, absolutely true. You do not conceive
the influence that mood has on some characters before they have learnt to master themselves.
I do not mean temper, but the mere frame of spirits.  Even sense of restraint will often take
away the actual power from a child, or where there is not a strong will.'

'You are right!' said he, becoming rigid as if with pain.  'He is a child!  You have not yet
told me what you think of him.  You need not hesitate.  No one sees the likeness more plainly
than I do.'

'It is strong externally,' she said; 'but I think it is more external than real, more temperament
than character.'

'You are too metaphysical for me, Mary;' and he would fain have smiled.

'I want you to be hopeful.  Half the object would be attained if you were, and he really deserves
that you should.'

'He will not let me.  If I hope at one moment, I am disappointed the next.'

'And how?  By nothing worse than boyishness.  You confirm what my aunt tells me, that there
has never been a serious complaint of him.'

'Never.  His conduct has always been blameless; but every tutor has said the same--that he
has no application, and allows himself to be surpassed by any one of moderate energy!'

'Blameless conduct!  How many fathers would give worlds to be able to give such a character
of a son!'

'There are faults that are the very indications of a manly spirit,' began the Earl, impatiently.
'Not that I mean that I wish--he has never given me any trouble--but just look at James Frost,
and you would see what I mean!  There's energy in him--fire--independence; you feel there is
substance in him, and like him the better for having a will and way of his own.'

'So, I think, has Louis; but it is so often thwarted, that it sinks away under the sense of
duty and submission.'

'If there were any consistency or reason in his fancies, they would not give way so easily;
but it is all talk, all extravagant notions--here one day, gone the next.  Not a spark of ambition!'

'Ambition is not so safe a spark that we should wish to see it lighted.'

'A man must wish to see his son hold his proper station, and aim high! No one can be satisfied
to see him a trifler.'

'I have been trying to find out why he trifles.  As far as I can see, he has no ambition, and
I do not think his turn will be for a life like yours.  His bent is towards what is to do good
to others.  He would make an admirable country gentleman.'

'A mere farmer, idling away his time in his fields.'

'No; doing infinite good by example and influence, and coming forward whenever duty required
it.  Depend upon it, the benefit to others is the impulse which can work on Louis, not personal
ambition.  Birth has already given him more than he values.'

'You may be right,' said Lord Ormersfield, 'but it is hard to see so many advantages thrown
away, and what sometimes seems like so much ability wasted.  But who can tell? he is never
the same for an hour together.'

'May it not be for want of a sphere of wholesome action?'

'He is not fit for it, Mary.  You know I resolved that the whole burthen of our losses should
fall on me; I made it my object that he should not suffer, and should freely have whatever
I had at the same age.  Everything is cleared at last.  I could give him the same income as
I started in life with; but he is so reckless of money, that I cannot feel justified in putting
it into his hands.  Say what I will, not a vacation occurs but he comes to tell me of some
paltry debt of ten or fifteen pounds.'

'He comes to tell you!  Nay, never say he has no resolution!  Such debts as those, what are
they compared with other young men's, of which they do not tell their fathers?'

'If he were like other youths, I should know how to deal with him. But you agree with me, he
is not fit to have a larger sum in his hands.'

'Perhaps not; he is too impulsive and inexperienced.  If you were to ask me how to make it
conduce to his happiness, I should say, lay out more on the estate, so as to employ more men,
and make improvements in which he would take interest.'

'I cannot make him care for the estate.  Last winter, when he came of age, I tried to explain
the state of affairs; but he was utterly indifferent--would not trouble himself to understand
the papers he was to sign, and made me quite ashamed of such an exhibition before Richardson.'

'I wish I could defend him!  And yet--you will think me unreasonable, but I do believe that
if he had thought the welfare of others was concerned, he would have attended more.'

'Umph!'

'I am not sure that it is not his good qualities that make him so hard to deal with.  The want
of selfishness and vanity seem to take away two common springs of action, but I do believe
that patience will bring out something much higher when you have found the way to reach it.'

'That I certainly have not, if it be there!'

'To cultivate his sympathies with you,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, hesitating, and not venturing to
look into his face.

'Enough, Mary,' he said, hastily.  You said the like to me once before.'

'But,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, firmly, 'here there is a foundation to work on.  There are affections
that only need to be drawn out to make you happy, and him--not, perhaps, what you now wish,
but better than you wish.'

His face had become hard as he answered, 'Thank you, Mary; you have always meant the best.
You have always been kind to me, and to all belonging to me.'

Her heart ached for the father and son, understanding each other so little, and paining each
other so much, and she feared that the Earl's mind had been too much cramped, and his feelings
too much chilled, for such softening on his part as could alone, as it seemed, prevent Louis
from being estranged, and left to his naturally fickle and indolent disposition.

Mary had in the mean time completed her copies, and left them on the Earl's table; and wishing
neither to be thanked nor contrasted with Louis, she put on her bonnet, to go in search of
Aunt Catharine.  Not finding her in the garden, she decided on visiting old Gervas and his
wife, who had gladly caught at her offer of reading to them.  The visit over, she returned
by the favourite path above Ferny dell, gathering primroses, and meditating how to stir up
Louis to finish off his rocky steps, and make one piece of work complete.  She paused at the
summit of them, and was much inclined to descend and examine what was wanting, when she started
at hearing a rustling beneath, then a low moan and an attempt at a call.  The bushes and a
projecting rock cut off her view; but, in some trepidation, she called out, 'Is any one there?'
Little did she expect the answer--

'It is I--Fitzjocelyn.  Come!--I have had a fall.'

'I'm coming--are you hurt?' she cried, as with shaking limbs she prepared to begin the descent.

'Not that way,' he called; 'it gave way--go to the left.'

She was almost disobeying; but, recalling herself to thought, she hurried along the top till
the bank became practicable, and tore her way through brake and brier, till she could return
along the side of the stream.

Horror-struck, she perceived that a heavy stone had given way and rolled down, bearing Louis
with it, to the bottom, where he lay, ghastly and helpless.  She called to him; and he tried
to raise himself, but sank back.  'Mary! is it you?  I thought I should have died here,' he
said; as she knelt by him, exclaiming, 'Oh, Louis! Louis! what a dreadful fall!'

'It is my fault,' he eagerly interrupted.  'I am glad it has happened to no one else.'

'And you are terribly hurt! I must go for help! but what can I do for you?  Would you like
some water?

'Water!  Oh! I have heard it all this time gurgling there!'

She filled his cap, and bathed his face, apparently to his great relief, and she ventured to
ask if he had been long there.

'Very long!' he said.  'I must have fainted after I got the stone off my foot, so I missed
Gervas going by.  I thought no one else would come near.  Thank God!'

Mary almost grew sick as she saw how dreadfully his left ankle had been crushed by a heavy
stone; and her very turning towards it made him shudder, and say, 'Don't touch me!  I am shattered
all over.'

'I am afraid I should only hurt you,' she said, with difficulty controlling herself.  'I had
better fetch some one.'

He did not know how to be left again; but the damp chilliness of his hands made her the more
anxious to procure assistance, and, after spreading her shawl over him, she made the utmost
speed out of the thicket.  As she emerged, she saw Lord Ormersfield riding with his groom,
and her scream and sign arrested him; but, by the time they met, she could utter nothing but
'Louis!'

'Another accident!' was the almost impatient answer.

'He is dreadfully hurt!' she said, sobbing and breathless.  'His foot is crushed!  He has been
there this hour!'

The alarm was indeed given.  The Earl seemed about to rush away without knowing whither; and
she had absolutely to withhold him, while, summoning her faculties, she gave directions to
Poynings. Then she let him draw her on, too fast for speaking, until they reached the spot
where Louis lay, so spent with pain and cold, that he barely opened his eyes at their voices,
made no distinct answers as to his hurts, and shrank and moaned when his father would have
raised him.

Mary contrived to place his head on her lap, bathed his forehead and chafed his hands, while
Lord Ormersfield stood watching him with looks of misery, or paced about, anxiously looking
for the servants.

They came at last, all too soon for poor Louis, who suffered terribly in the transport, and
gave few tokens of consciousness, except a cry now and then extorted by a rougher movement.

None of the household, scarcely even Mrs. Frost, seemed at first to be able to believe that
Lord Fitzjocelyn could really have hurt himself seriously.  'Again!' was the first word of
every one, for his many slight accidents were treated like crying 'Wolf;' but Frampton himself
looked perfectly pale and shocked when he perceived how the matter really stood; and neither
he nor Lord Ormersfield was half so helpful as Mrs. Frost.  The shock only called out her energy
in behalf of her darling, and, tender as her nature was, she shrank from nothing that could
soothe and alleviate his suffering; and it did infinitely comfort him, as he held her hand
and looked with affection into her face, even in the extremity of pain.

Fain would others have been the same support; but his father, though not leaving him, was completely
unnerved, and unable to do anything; and Mrs. Ponsonby was suffering under one of the attacks
that were brought on by any sudden agitation.  Mary, though giddy and throbbing in every pulse,
was forced to put a resolute check on herself--brace her limbs, steady her voice, and keep
her face composed, while every faculty was absorbed in listening for sounds from her cousin's
room, and her heart was quivering with an anguish of prayer and suspense. Could she but hide
her burning cheeks for one moment, let out one of the sobs that seemed to be rending her breast,
throw herself on her knees and burst into tears, what an infinite relief it would be!  But
Mary had learnt to spend her life in having no self.

CHAPTER VI.

FAREWELLS.

  What yet is there that I should do,
    Lingering in this darksome vale?
  Proud and mighty, fair to view,
    Are our schemes, and yet they fail,
  Like the sand before the wind,
    That no power of man can bind.
                      ARNDT, Lyra Germanica.

Dynevor Terrace was said to have dark, damp kitchens, but by none who had ever been in No.
5, when the little compact fire was compressed to one glowing red crater of cinders, their
smile laughing ruddily back from the bright array on the dresser, the drugget laid down, the
round oaken table brought forward, and Jane Beckett, in afternoon trim, tending her geraniums,
the offspring of the parting Cheveleigh nosegay, or gauffreing her mistress's caps.  No wonder
that on raw evenings, Master James, Miss Clara, or my young Lord, had often been found gossiping
with Jane, toasting their own cheeks as well as the bread, or pinching their fingers in her
gauffreing machine.

Yet, poor little Charlotte Arnold learnt that the kitchen could be dreary, when Mrs. Beckett
had been summoned to nurse Lord Fitzjocelyn, and she remained in sole charge, under Mrs. Martha's
occasional supervision.  She found herself, her household cares over all too soon, on a cold
light March afternoon, with the clock ticking loud enough for midnight, the smoke-jack indulging
in supernatural groans, and the whole lonely house full of undefined terrors, with an unlimited
space of the like solitude before her.  She would even have been glad to be sure of an evening
of Mrs. Martha's good advice, and of darning stockings!  She sat down by the round table to
Mr. James's wristbands; but every creak or crack of the furniture made her start, and think
of death-watches.  She might have learnt to contemn superstition, but that did not prevent
it from affecting her nerves.

She spread her favourite study, The Old English Baron, on the table before her; but the hero
had some connexion in her mind with Tom Madison, for whom she had always coveted a battle-field
in France. What would he feel when he heard how he had filled up his course of evil, being
well-nigh the death of his benefactor!  If any one ought to be haunted, it would assuredly
be no other than Tom!

Chills running over her at the thought, she turned to the fire as the thing nearest life, but
at the moment started at a hollow call of her own name.  A face was looking in at her through
the geraniums!  She shrieked aloud, and clasped her hands over her eyes.

'Don't make a row.  Open the door!'

It was such a relief to hear something unghostly, that she sprang to the door; but as she undid
it, all her scruples seized her, and she tried to hold it, saying, 'Don't come in!  You unfortunate
boy, do you know what you have done?'

But Tom Madison was in a mood to which her female nature cowered.  He pushed the door open,
saying authoritatively, 'Tell me how he is!'

'He is as ill as he can be to be alive,' said Charlotte, actuated at once by the importance
of being the repository of such tidings, and by the excitement of communicating them to one
so deeply concerned. 'Mr. Poynings came in to fetch Mrs. Beckett--he would have no one else
to nurse him--and he says the old Lord and Missus have never had their clothes off these two
nights.'

'Then, was it along of them stones?' asked the lad, hoarsely.

'Yourself should know best!' returned Charlotte.  'Mr. Poynings says 'twas a piece of rock
as big as that warming-pan as crushed his ankle! and you know--'

'I know nothing,' said Tom.  'Master kept me in all day yesterday, and I only heard just now
at Little Northwold, where I've been to take home some knives of Squire Calcott's.  Master
may blow me up if he likes, but I couldn't come till I'd heard the rights of it.  Is he so
very bad?'

'They've sent up to London for a doctor,' pursued Charlotte.  'Mr. Walby don't give but little
hope of him.  Poor young gentleman, I'm sure he had a good word from high and low!'

'Well! I'm gone!' cried Tom, vehemently.  'Goodbye to you, Charlotte Arnold!  You'll never
see me in these parts more!'

'Gone!  Oh, Tom! what do you mean!'

'D'ye think I'll stay here to have this here cast in my face?  Such a one as won't never walk
the earth again!' and he burst out into passionate tears.  'I wish I was dead!'

'Oh, hush, Tom!--that is wicked!'

'May be so!  I am all that's wicked, and you all turn against me!'

'I don't turn against you,' sobbed Charlotte, moved to the bottom of her gentle heart.

'You! you turned against me long ago.  You've been too proud to cast one look at me these three
months; and he forgot me; and that's what drew me on, when who cared what became of me--nor
I neither now.'

'Don't speak that way!  Don't say 'twas pride.  Oh no! but I had to behave proper, and how
should I keep up acquaintance when they said you went on--unsteady--'

'Aye, aye!  I know how it is,' said poor Tom, with broken-down humility: 'I was not fit for
you then, and I'm next thing to a murderer now; and you're like a white dove that the very
fingers of me would grime.  I'll take myself out of your way; but, let what will come of me,
I'll never forget you, Charlotte.'

'Oh, wait, Tom!  If I could but say it right!--Oh! I know there's something about biding patiently,
and getting a blessing--if you'd only stop while I recollect it.'

'I thought I heard voices!' exclaimed Mrs. Martha, suddenly descending on them.  'I wonder
you aren't ashamed of yourselves, and the family in such trouble!  Downright owdacious!'

'Be this your house?' said Tom, stepping before Charlotte, his dejection giving way instantly
to rude independence.

'Oh, very well,' said Martha, with dignity.  'I know what to expect from such sort of people.
The house and young woman is in my charge, sir; and if you don't be off, I'll call the police.'

'Never trouble your old bones!' retorted Tom.

'Good-bye to you, Charlotte;' and, as in defiance of Martha, he took her passive hand.  'You'll
remember one as loved you true and faithful, but was drove desperate!  Good-bye!  I'll not
trouble no one no more!'

The three concluding negatives with which he dashed out of the house utterly overwhelmed Charlotte,
and made her perfectly insensible to Mrs. Martha's objurgations.  She believed in the most
horrible and desperate intentions, and sobbed herself into such violent hysterics that Miss
Mercy came in to assist--imagined that the rude boy had terrified her, misunderstood her shamefaced
attempts at explanation, and left her lying on her bed, crying quietly over her secret terrors,
and over that first, strangely-made declaration of love. The white dove! she did not deserve
it, but it was so poetical! and poor Tom was so unhappy!  She had not time even to think what
was become of her own character for wisdom and prudence.

The next morning, between monition and triumph, Martha announced that the good-for-nothing
chap was off with a valuable parcel of Mr. Calcott's, and the police were after him; with much
more about his former idle habits,--frequenting of democratic oratory, public-houses, and fondness
for bad company and strolling actors.  Meek and easily cowed, Charlotte only opened her lips
to say she knew that he had taken home Mr. Calcott's parcel.  But this brought down a storm
on her for being impertinent enough to defend him, and she sat trembling till it had subsided;
and Martha retreating, left her to weep unrestrainedly over her wild fancies, and the world's
cruelty and injustice towards one whom, as she was now ready to declare, she loved with her
whole heart.

The bell rang sharply, knocks rattled at the front door!  She was sure that Tom had been just
taken out of the river!  But instinct to answer the bell awoke at the second furious clattering
and double pealing, which allowed no time for her to compose her tear-streaked, swollen face,
especially as the hasty sounds suggested 'Mr. James.'

Mr. James it was, but the expected rebuke for keeping him waiting was not spoken.  As he saw
her sorrowful looks, he only said, low and softly, 'Is it so, Charlotte?'  In his eyes, there
could be but one cause for grief, and Charlotte's heart smote her for hypocrisy, when she could
barely command her voice to reply, 'No, sir; my Lord has had a little better night.'

He spoke with unusual gentleness, as he made more inquiries than she could answer; and when,
after a few minutes, he turned to walk on to Ormersfield, he said, kindly, 'Good-bye, Charlotte;
I'll send you word if I find him better:' and the tears rose in his eyes at the thought how
every one loved the patient.

He was not wrong.  There was everywhere great affection and sympathy for the bright, fantastic
being whom all laughed at and liked, and Northwold and the neighbourhood felt that they could
have better spared something more valuable.

The danger was hardly exaggerated even by Charlotte.  The chill of the long exposure had brought
on high fever; and besides the crushed ankle, there had been severe contusions, which had resulted
in an acute pain in the side, hitherto untouched by remedies, and beyond the comprehension
of the old Northwold surgeon, Mr. Walby.  As yet, however, the idea of peril had not presented
itself to Louis, though he was perfectly sensible.  Severe pain and illness were new to him;
and though not fretful nor impatient, he had not the stoicism either of pride or of physical
indifference, put little restraint on the expression of suffering, and was to an almost childish
degree absorbed in the present.  He was always considerate and grateful; and his fond affection
for his Aunt Catharine, and for good old Jane, never failed to show itself whenever they did
anything for his relief; and they were the best of nurses.

Poor Lord Ormersfield longed to be equally effective; but he was neither handy nor ready, and
could only sit hour after hour beside his son, never moving except to help the nurses, or to
try to catch the slightest accent of the sufferer.  Look up when Louis would, he always saw
the same bowed head, and earnest eyes, which, as Mrs. Ponsonby told her daughter, looked as
they did when Louisa was dying.

The coming of the London surgeon was an era to which Louis evidently looked anxiously, with
the iteration of sickness, often reckoning the hours till he could arrive; and when at last
he came, there was an evident effort to command attention.

When the visit was over, and the surgeon was taking leave after the consultation, Fitzjocelyn
calmly desired to know his opinion, and kept his eyes steadily fixed on his face, weighing
the import of each word. All depended on the subduing the inflammatory action, in the side;
and there was every reason to hope that he would have strength for the severe treatment necessary.
There was no reason to despond.

'I understand--thank you,' said Louis.

He shut his eyes, and lay so still that Mrs. Frost trusted that he slept; but when his father
came in, they were open, and Lord Ormersfield, bending over him, hoped he was in less pain.

'Thank you, there is not much difference.'  But the plaintive sound was gone, the suffering
was not the sole thought.

'Walby is coming with the leeches at two o'clock,' said Lord Ormersfield: 'I reckon much on them.'

'Thank you.'  Silence again, but his face spoke a wish, and his aunt Catharine said, 'What,
my dear?'

'I should like to see Mr. Holdsworth,' said Louis, with eyes appealing to his father.

'He has been here to inquire every day,' said the Earl, choosing neither to refuse nor understand.
'Whenever it is not too much for you--'

'It must be quickly, before I am weaker,' said Louis.  'Let it be before Walby returns, father.'

'Whatever you wish, my dear--' and Lord Ormersfield, turning towards the table, wrote a note,
which Mrs. Frost offered to despatch, thinking that her presence oppressed her elder nephew,
who looked bowed down by the intensity of grief, which, unexpressed, seemed to pervade the
whole man and weigh him to the earth: and perhaps this also struck Louis for the first time,
for, after having lain silent for some minutes, he softly said, 'Father!'

The Earl was instantly beside him, but, instead of speaking, Louis gazed in his face, and sighed,
as he murmured, 'I was meant to have been a comfort to you.'

'My dear boy--' began Lord Ormersfield, but he could not trust his voice, as he saw Louis's
eyes moist with tears.

'I wish I had!' he continued; 'but I have never been anything but a care and vexation, and
I see it all too late.'

'Nay, Louis,' said his father, trying to assume his usual tone of authority, as if to prove
his security, 'you must not give way to feelings of illness.  It is weak to despond.'

'It is best to face it,' said the young man, with slow and feeble utterance, but with no quailing
of eye or voice.  'But oh, father! I did not think you would feel it so much.  I am not worth it.'

For the Earl could neither speak nor breathe, as if smothered by one mighty unuttered sob,
and holding his son's hand between both his own, pressed it convulsively.

'I am glad Mrs. Ponsonby is here,' said Louis; 'and you will soon find what a nice fellow Edward
Fitzjocelyn is, whom you may make just what--'

'Louis, my own boy, hush!  I cannot bear this,' cried his father, in an accent wrung from him
by excess of grief.

'I may recover,' said Louis, finding it his turn to comfort, 'and I should like to be longer
with you, to try to make up--'

'You will.  The leeches must relieve you.  Only keep up your spirits: you have many years before
you of happiness and success.'

The words brought a look of oppression over Louis's face, but it cleared as he said, 'I am
more willing to be spared those years!'

His father positively started.  'Louis, my poor boy,' he said, 'is it really so?  I know I
have seemed a cold, severe father.'

'Oh, do not say so!' exclaimed Louis; 'I have deserved far less-idle, ungrateful, careless
of your wishes.  I did not know I could pain you so much, or I would not have done it.  You
have forgiven often, say you forgive now.'

'You have far more to forgive than I,' said the Earl.

'If I could tell you the half-waywardness, discontent, neglect, levity, wasted time--my treatment
of you only three days back. Everything purposed--nothing done!  Oh! what a life to bring before
the Judge!' And he covered his face, but his father heard long-drawn sobs.

'Compose yourself, my dear boy,' he exclaimed, exceedingly grieved and perplexed.  'You know
there is no cause to despond; and even--even if there were, you have no reason to distress
yourself.  I can say, from the bottom of my heart, that you have never given me cause for real
anxiety, your conduct has been exemplary, and I never saw such attention to religion in any
young man.  These are mere trifles--'

'Oh, hush, father!' exclaimed Louis.  'You are only making it worse; you little know what I
am!  If Mr. Holdsworth would come!'

'He could only tell you the same,' said his father.  'You may take every comfort in thinking
how blameless you have been, keeping so clear of all the faults of your age.  I may not have
esteemed you as you deserved, my poor Louis; but, be assured that very few can have so little
to reproach themselves with as you have.'

Louis almost smiled.  'Poor comfort that,' he said, 'even if it were true; but oh, father!'
and there was a light in his eye, 'I had thought of 'He hath blotted out like a cloud thy transgressions.''

'That is right.  One like you must find comfort in thinking.'

'There is comfort ineffable,' said Louis; 'but if I knew what I may dare to take home to myself!
It is all so dim and confused.  This pain will not let anything come connectedly.  Would you
give me that little manuscript book!'

It was given; and as the many loose leaves fell under Louis's weak hand, his father was amazed
at the mass of copies of prayers, texts, and meditations that he had brought together; the
earlier pages containing childish prayers written in Aunt Catharine's hand. Louis's cheeks
coloured at the revelation of his hidden life, as his father put them together for him.

'It is of no use,' he said, sadly; 'I cannot read.  Perhaps my aunt would come and read this
to me.'

'Let me,' said his father; and Louis looked pleased.

Lord Ormersfield read what was pointed out.  To him it was a glimpse of a very new world of
contrition, faith, hope, and prayer; but he saw the uneasy expression on Louis's face give
place to serenity, as one already at home in that sphere.

'Thank you,' he said.  'That was what I wanted.  Mr. Holdsworth will soon come, and then I
don't want to say much more.  Only don't take this too much to heart--I am not worth it; and
but for you and the dear Terrace home, I can be very glad.  If I may hope, the hope is so bright!
Here there are so many ways of going wrong, and all I do always fails; and yet I always tried
to do Him service.  Oh, to have all perfect!--no failure--no inconsistency--no self!  Can it be?'

'I always tried to do Him service!' Sadly and dejectedly as the words were spoken--mournful
as was the contrast between the will and the result, this was the true cause that there was
peace with Louis. Unstable, negligent, impetuous, and weak as he had been, the one earnest
purpose had been his, guarding the heart, though not yet controlling the judgment.  His soul
was awake to the unseen, and thus the sense of the reality of bliss ineffable, and power to
take comfort in the one great Sacrifice, came with no novelty nor strangeness.  It was a more
solemn, more painful preparation, but such as he had habitually made, only now it was for a
more perfect Festival.

His father, as much awestruck by his hopes as distressed by his penitence, still gave himself
credit for having soothed him, and went to meet and forewarn the Vicar that poor Fitzjocelyn
was inclined to despond, and was attaching such importance to the merest, foibles in a most
innocent life, that he required the most tender and careful encouragement.  He spoke in his
usual tone of authoritative courtesy; and then, finding that his son wished to be left alone
with Mr. Holdsworth, he went to the library to seek the only person to whom he could bear to talk.

'Mary,' he said, 'you were right.  I have done so little to make that poor boy of mine happy,
that he does not wish for life.'

Mrs. Ponsonby looked up surprised.  'Are you sure of what he meant?' she said.  'Was it not
that this life has nothing to compare with that which is to come?'

'But what can be more unnatural?' said the Earl.  'At his age, with everything before him,
nothing but what he felt as my harshness could so have checked hope and enjoyment.  My poor
Louis!'  And, though eye and voice were steady and tearless, no words could express the anguish
of his under-tone.

Mrs. Ponsonby adduced instances showing that, to early youth, with heart still untainted by
the world, the joys of the Life Everlasting have often so beamed out as to efface all that
earth could promise, but he could not be argued out of self-reproach for his own want of sympathy,
and spoke mournfully of his cold manner, sternness to small faults, and denial of gratifications.

Mary the younger could not help rising from her corner to say, 'Indeed, Louis said the other
day that you never had denied him any personal indulgence.'

'My dear, he never asked for personal indulgences,' said the Earl. His further speech was interrupted
by a quick step, a slow opening of the door, and the entrance of James Frost, who grasped his
outstretched hand with a breathless inquiry.

'He is very ill--' Lord Ormersfield paused, too much oppressed to say more.

'No better?  What did the London surgeon say? what?'

'He says there is no time to be lost in attacking the inflammation. If we can subdue that,
he may recover; but the state of the ankle weakens him severely.  I believe myself that he
is going fast,' said the Earl, with the same despairing calmness; and James, after gazing at
him to collect his meaning, dropped into a chair, covered his face with his hands, and sobbed
aloud.

Lord Ormersfield looked on as if he almost envied the relief of the outburst, but James's first
movement was to turn on him, as if he were neglecting his son, sharply demanding, 'Who is with
him?'

'He wished to be left with Mr. Holdsworth.'

'Is it come to this!' cried James.  'Oh, why did I not come down with him?  I might have prevented
all this!'

'You could not have acted otherwise,' said the Earl, kindly.  'Your engagement was already formed.'

'I could!' said James.  'I would not.  I thought it one of your excuses for helping us.'

'It is vain to lament these things now,' said Lord Ormersfield.  'It is very kind in you to
have come down, and it will give him great pleasure if he be able to see you.'

'If!'  James stammered between consternation and anger at the doubt, and treated the Earl with
a kind of implied resentment as if for injustice suffered by Louis, but it was affecting to
see his petulance received with patience, almost with gratitude, as a proof of his affection
for Louis.  The Earl stood upright and motionless before the fire, answering steadily, but
in an almost inward voice, all the detailed questions put by James, who, seated on one chair,
with his hands locked on the back of the other, looked keenly up to him with his sharp black
eyes, often overflowing with tears, and his voice broken by grief.  When he had elicited that
Louis had been much excited and distressed by the thought of his failings, he burst out, 'Whatever
you may think, Lord Ormersfield, no one ever had less on his conscience!'

'I am sure of it.'

'I know of no one who would have given up his own way again and again without a murmur, only
to be called fickle.'

'Yes, it has often been so,' meekly said Lord Ormersfield.

'Fickle!' repeated James, warming with the topic, and pouring out what had been boiling within
for years.  'He was only fickle because his standard was too high to be reached!  You thought
him weak!'

'There may be weakness by nature strengthened by principle,' said Mrs. Ponsonby.

'True,' cried Jem, who, having taken no previous notice of her, had at first on her speaking
bent his brows on her as if to extend to her the storm he was inflicting on poor, defenceless
Lord Ormersfield, 'he is thought soft because of his easy way; but come to the point where
harm displays itself, you can't move him a step farther--though he hangs back in such a quiet,
careless fashion, that it seems as if he was only tired of the whole concern, and so it goes
down again as changeableness.'

'You always did him justice,' said Lord Ormersfield, laying his hand on his cousin's shoulder,
but James retreated ungraciously.

'I suppose, where he saw evil, he actually took a dislike,' said Mrs. Ponsonby.

'It is an absolute repugnance to anything bad.  You,' turning again on the Earl, 'had an idea
of his being too ready to run into all sorts of company; but I told you there was no danger.'

'You told me I might trust to his disgust to anything unrefined or dissipated.  You knew him best.'

'There is that about him which men, not otherwise particular, respect as they might a woman
or a child.  They never show themselves in their true colours, and I have known him uphold
them because he has never seen their worst side!'

'I have always thought he learnt that peculiar refinement from your grandmother.'

'I think,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, softly, 'that it is purity of heart which makes him see heaven
so bright.'

'Sydney Calcott walked part of the way with me,' continued Jem, 'and showed more feeling than
I thought was in him.  He said just what I do, that he never saw any one to whom evil seemed
so unable to cling. He spoke of him at school--said he was the friend of all the juniors, but
too dreamy and uncertain for fellows of his own standing.  He said, at first they did not know
what to make of him, with his soft looks and cool ways--they could not make him understand
bullying, for he could not be frightened nor put in a passion.  Only once, one great lout tried
forcing bad language on him, and then Fitzjocelyn struck him, fought him, and was thoroughly
licked, to be sure: but Calcott said it was a moral victory--no one tried the like again--'

James was interrupted by Mr. Holdsworth's entrance.  He said a few words apart to the Earl,
who answered, with alarm, 'Not now; he has gone through enough.'

'I told him so, but he is very anxious, and begged me to return in the evening.'

'Thank you.  You had better join us at dinner.'

The Vicar understood Lord Ormersfield better than did James, and said, pressing his hand, 'My
Lord, it is heart-breaking, but the blessedness is more than we can feel.'

Mrs. Ponsonby and Mary were left to try to pacify James, who was half mad at his exclusion
from the sickroom, and very angry with every hint of resignation--abusing the treatment of
the doctors, calling Mr. Walby an old woman, and vehemently bent on prophesying the well-doing
of the patient.  Keenly sensitive, grief and suspense made him unusually irritable; and he
seemed to have no power of waiting patiently, and trusting the event to wiser Hands.

Mrs. Ponsonby dared not entertain any such ardent wishes.  Life had not afforded her so much
joy that she should deem it the greatest good, and all that she had heard gave her the impression
that Louis was too soft and gentle for the world's hard encounter,--most pure and innocent,
sincere and loving at present, but rather with the qualities of childhood than of manhood,
with little strength or perseverance, so that the very dread of taint or wear made it almost
a relief to think of his freshness and sweetness being secured for ever.  Even when she thought
of his father, and shrank from such grief for him, she could not but see a hope that this affliction
might soften the heart closed up by the first and far worse sorrow, and detach it from the
interests that had absorbed it too exclusively.  All this was her food for silent meditation.
Mary sat reading or working beside her, paler perhaps than her wont, and betraying that her
ear caught every sound on the stairs, but venturing no word except the most matter-of-fact
remark, quietly giving force to the more favourable symptoms.

Not till after Mr. Walby's second visit, when there was a little respite in the hard life-and-death
contest between the remedies and the inflammation, could Mrs. Frost spare a few moments for
her grandson. She met him on the stairs--threw her arms round his neck, called him her poor
Jemmy, and hastily told him that he must not make her cry.  He looked anxiously in her face,
and told her that he must take her place, for she was worn out.'

'No, thank you, my dear, I can rest by-and-by.'

It sounded very hopeless.

'Come, granny, you always take the bright side.'

'Who knows which is the bright side?' she said.  'Such as he are always the first.  But there,
dear Jem, I told you not to make too much of granny--' and hastily withdrawing her hand, she
gave a parting caress to his hair as he stood on the step below her, and returned to her charge.

It would have been an inexpressible comfort to James to have had some one to reproach.  His
own wretchedness was like a personal injury, and an offence that he could resent would have
been a positive relief.  He was forced to get out of the way of Frampton coming up with a tray
of lemonade, and glared at him, as if even a station on the stairs were denied, then dashed
out of doors, and paced the garden, goaded by every association the scene recalled.  It seemed
a mere barbarity to deprive him of what he now esteemed as the charm of his life--the cousin
who had been as a brother, ever seeking his sympathy, never offended by his sharp, imperious
temper, and though often slighted or tyrannized over, meeting all in his own debonnaire fashion,
and never forsaking the poor, hard-working student, so that he might well feel that the world
could not offer him aught like Louis Fitzjocelyn.

He stood in the midst of the botanical garden, and, with almost triumphant satisfaction, prognosticated
that now there would be regret that Louis's schemes had been neglected or sneered at, and when
too late, his father might feel as much sorrow as he had time for.  It was the bitterness,
not the softness of grief, in which he looked forth into the dull blue east-windy haze deepening
in the twilight, and presently beheld something dark moving along under the orchard bank beneath.
'Hollo! who's there?' he exclaimed, and the form, rearing itself, disclosed young Madison,
never a favourite with him, and though, as a persecuted protege of Louis, having claims which
at another time might have softened him, coming forward at an unlucky moment, when his irritation
only wanted an object on which to discharge itself.  It was plain that one who came skulking
in the private grounds could intend no good, and James greeted him, harshly, with 'You've no
business here!'

'I'm doing no harm,' said the boy, doggedly, for his temper was as stubborn as James's was
excitable.

'No harm! lurking here in that fashion in the dark!  You'll not make me believe that!  Let
me hear what brings you here!  The truth, mind!'

'I came to hear how Lord Fitzjocelyn is,' said Tom, with brief bluntness and defiance.

'A likely story!  What, you came to ask the apple-trees?' and James scornfully laughed.  'There
was no back-door, I suppose!  I could forgive you anything but such a barefaced falsehood,
when you know it was your own intolerable carelessness that was the only cause of the accident!'

'Better say 'twas yourself!' cried Tom, hoarse with passion and shaking all over.

The provocation was intense enough to bring back James's real principle and self-restraint,
and he spoke with more dignity.  'You seem to be beside yourself, Madison,' he said, 'you had
better go at once, before any one finds you here.  Lord Fitzjocelyn cared for you so much,
that I should not wish for you to meet your deserts under present circumstances.  Go!  I wish
to have no more of your tongue!'

The boy was bounding off, while James walked slowly after to see him beyond the grounds, and
finding Warren the keeper, desired him to be on the look-out.  Warren replied with the tidings
that Madison had run away from his place, and that the police were looking out for him on the
suspicion of having stolen Mr. Calcott's parcel, moralizing further on the depravity of such
doings when my young Lord was so ill, but accounting for the whole by pronouncing poaching
to be bred in the bone of the Marksedge people.

This little scene had done Jem a great deal of good, both by the exhalation of bitterness and
by the final exertion of forbearance. He had, indeed, been under two great fallacies on this
day,--soothing Charlotte for the grief that was not caused by Fitzjocelyn's illness, and driving
to extremity the lad brimming over with sorrow not inferior to his own.  Little did he know
what a gentle word might have done for that poor, wild, tempestuous spirit!

Yet, James's heart smote him that evening, when, according to Louis's earnest wish, Mr. Holdsworth
came again, and they all were admitted to the room, and he saw the feeble sign and summons
to the Vicar to bend down and listen.  'Tell poor Madison, it was wrong in me not to go to
see him.  Give him one of my books, and tell him to go on well!'

That day had been one of rapid change, and the remedies and suffering had so exhausted Louis
that he could scarcely speak, and seemed hardly conscious who was present.  All his faculties
were absorbed in the one wish, which late in the evening was granted.  The scene was like an
epitome of his life--the large irregular room, cumbered with the disorderly apparatus of all
his multifarious pursuits, while there he lay on his little narrow iron bed, his features so
fair and colourless as to be strangely like his mother's marble effigy--his eyes closed, and
his brows often contracted with pain, so that there was a doubt how far his attention was free,
but still with a calm, pure sweetness, that settled down more and more, as if he were being
lulled into a sleep.

'He is asleep,' Mrs. Frost said, as they all rose up.

They felt what that sleep might become.

'We might as well wish to detain a snow-wreath,' thought Mr. Holdsworth.

CHAPTER VII.

GOSSAMER.

  Chaos is come again.--Othello.

That sleep was not unto death.  When James and Mary came simultaneously creeping to the door
in the grey twilight of the morning, they heard that there had been less pain and more rest,
and gradually throughout the day, there was a diminution of the dangerous symptoms, till the
trembling hope revived that the patient might be given back again to life.

James was still sadly aggrieved at being forbidden the sick-room, and exceedingly envied Lord
Ormersfield's seat there.  He declared, so that Mary doubted whether it were jest or earnest,
that the Earl only remained there because society expected it from their relative positions,
and that it must retard poor Fitzjocelyn's recovery to be perpetually basilisked by those cold
grey eyes.  Mary stood up gallantly for the Earl, who had always been so kind to her, and,
on her mother's authority, vouched for his strong though hidden, feelings; to which Jem replied,
'Aye! he was hiding a strong fear of being too late for the beginning of the Session.'

'I do not think it right to impute motives,' said Mary.

'I would not, Mary, if I could help it,' said James, 'but through the whole course of my life
I have never seen a token that his lordship is worthy of his son.  If he were an ordinary,
practical, common-place block, apt to support his dignity, he might value him, but all the
grace, peculiarity, and conventionality is a mere burthen and vexation, utterly wasted.'

Mary knew that she was a common-place block, and did not wonder at herself for not agreeing
with James, but cherishing a strong conviction that the father and son would now leave off
rubbing against each other; since no unprejudiced person could doubt of the strong affection
of the father, nor of the warm gratitude of the son. In spite of the asperity with which James
spoke of the Earl, she was beginning to like him almost as much as she esteemed him.  This
had not been the case in their childhood, when he used to be praised by the elders for his
obedience to his grandmother and his progress in the Northwold Grammar School; but was terribly
overbearing with his juniors, and whether he cuffed Louis or led him into mischief, equally
distressed her.  Grown up, he was peculiarly vif, quick and ready, unselfish in all his ways,
and warmly affectionate--very agreeable companion where his sensitiveness was not wounded,
and meriting high honour by his deeper qualities.  Young as he was, he had already relieved
his grandmother from his own maintenance: he had turned to the utmost account his education
at the endowed school at Northwold; by sheer diligence, had obtained, first a scholarship and
then a fellowship at Oxford; and now, by practising rigid economy, and spending his vacations
in tuition, he was enabled to send his sister to a boarding-school.  He had stolen a few days
from his pupils on hearing of Fitzjocelyn's danger, but was forced to return as soon as the
improvement became confirmed.  On the previous day, he asked Mary to walk with him to the scene
of the accident, and they discussed the cause with more coolness than they really felt, as
they shuddered at the depth of the fall, and the size of the stones.

James declared it all the fault of that runaway scamp, young Madison, in whom Louis had always
been deceived, and who had never been seen since the night of his apparition in the garden.

'Poor boy! I suppose that was the reason he ran away,' said Mary.

'A very good thing, too.  He would never have been anything but a torment to Louis.  I remember
telling him he was setting the stones so as to break the neck of some one!'

'I think it would be of more use to build them up than to settle how they broke down,' said
Mary.  'Do you think we could manage it safely?'

'A capital thought!' cried James, eagerly, and no sooner said than done.  The two cousins set
to work--procured some cement from the bricklayer in the village, and toiled at their masonry
with right good-will as long as light and time served them, then made an appointment to meet
at half-past six next morning, and finish their work.

When the rendezvous took place, they were rejoicing over Mrs. Frost's report of an excellent
night, and over her own happy looks, from which James prognosticated that all her fatigue and
watching had done no harm to her vigorous frame, for which gladness was always the best cordial.
It was a joyous beginning on that spring morning, and seemed to add fresh sparkles to the dazzling
dewdrops, and double merriment to the blackbirds and thrushes answering each other far and
wide, around, as the sun drew up the grey veil of morning mist. 'They all seem holding a feast
for his recovery!' exclaimed Mary, warming for once into poetry, as she trudged along, leaving
green footmarks in the silver dew.

'Well they may,' said James; 'for who loves them better than he?  I grudge myself this lovely
morning, when he is lying there, and my poor Clara is caged up at that place--the two who would
the most enjoy it.'

'Your going to see her will be as good as the spring morning.'

'Poor child!  I dread it!' sighed Jem.

It was his first voluntary mention of his sister.  He had always turned the conversation when
Mrs. Ponsonby or Mary had tried to inquire for her, and Mary was glad to lead him on to say more.

'I remember her last when you were teaching her to run alone, and letting none of us touch
her, because you said she was your child, and belonged to no one else.'

'I should not be so ungrateful, now that I am come to the sense of my responsibility in teaching
her to go alone.'

'But she has Aunt Catherine,' said Mary, thinking that he was putting the natural guardian
out of the question as much now as in the days referred to.

'My grandmother never had to do with any girl before, and does not profess to understand them.
She let Clara be regularly a boy in school, at first learning the same lessons, and then teaching;
and whatever I tried to impress in the feminine line, naturally, all went for nothing.  She
is as wild as a hare, and has not a particle of a girl about her!'

'But she is very young.'

'There it is again!  She grows so outrageously.  She is not sixteen, and there she is taller
than granny already.  It is getting quite absurd.'

'What advice do you want on that head?'

'Seriously, it is a disadvantage, especially to that sort of girl, who can't afford to look
like a woman before her time.  Well, as she must probably depend on herself, I looked out for
as good a school as could be had for the means, and thought I had succeeded, and that she would
be brought into some sort of shape.  Granny was ready to break her heart, but thought it quite
right.'

'Then, does it not answer?'

'That is just what I can't tell.  You have been used to schools: I wish you could tell me whether
it is a necessary evil, or Clara's own idiosyncrasy, or peculiar to the place.'

'Whether what is?'

'Her misery!'

'Misery!  Why, there is nothing of that in her letters to my aunt. There is not a complaint.'

'She is a brave girl, who spares granny, when she knows it would be of no use to distress her.
Judge now, there's the sort of letter that I get from her.'

Mary read.

'DEAREST JEMMY,--Write to me as quick as ever you can, and tell me how Louis is; and let me
come home, or I shall run mad.  It is no good telling me to command my feelings; I am sure
I would if I could, for the girls are more detestable than ever; but what can one do when one
cannot sleep nor eat?  All the screaming and crying has got into one bump in my throat, because
I can't get it out in peace.  If I could only shy the inkstand at the English teacher's head!
or get one moment alone and out of sight!  Let me come home.  I could at least run messages;
and it is of no use for me to stay here, for I can't learn, and all the girls are looking at
me.  If they were but boys, they would have sense! or if I could but kick them!  This will
make you angry, but do forgive me; I can't help it, for I am so very unhappy.  Louis is as
much to me as you are, and no one ever was so kind; but I know he will get well--I know he
will; only if I knew the pain was better, and could but hear every minute.  You need not come
to fetch me; only send me a telegraph, and one to Miss Brigham.  I have money enough for a
second-class ticket, and would come that instant.  If you saw the eyes and heard the whispers
of these girls, I am sure you would.  I should laugh at such nonsense any other time, but now
I only ask to be wretched quietly in a corner.

              'Your affectionate, nearly crazy, sister,
                                       'CLARA FROST DYNEVOR.'

Mary might well say that there was nothing more expedient than going to see Clara, and 'much,'
said poor James, 'he should gain by that,' especially on the head that made him most uneasy,
and on which he could only hint lightly--namely, whether the girls were 'putting nonsense in
her head.'

'If they had done her any harm, she would never have written such a letter,' said Mary.

'True,' said Jem.  'She is a mere child, and never got that notion into her head for a moment;
but if they put it in, we are done for! Or if the place were ever so bad, I can't remove her
now, when granny is thus occupied.  One reason why I made a point of her going to school was,
that I thought doing everything that Fitzjocelyn did was no preparation for being a governess.'

'Oh! I hope it will not come to that!  Mr. Oliver Dynevor talks of coming home in a very few
years.'

'So few, that we shall be grey before he comes.  No; Clara and I are not going to be bound
to him for the wealth heaped up while my grandmother was left in poverty.  We mean to be independent.'

Mary was glad to revert to Clara.

'I must do the best I can for her for the present,' said Jem,--'try to harden her against the
girls, and leave her to bear it.  Poor dear! it makes one's heart ache!  And to have done it
oneself, too! Then, in the holidays, perhaps, you will help me to judge.  You will be her friend,
Mary; there's nothing she needs so much.  I thought she would have found one at school but
they are not the right stamp of animal.  She has been too much thrown on Louis; and though
he has made a noble thing of her, that must come to an end, and the sooner the better.'

Certainly, it was a perplexity for a young elder brother; but there could not but remain some
simple wonder in Mary's mind whether the obvious person, Mrs. Frost, had not better have been
left to decide for her granddaughter.

The building operations gave full occupation to the powers of the two cousins, and in good
time before breakfast, all was successfully completed,--a hand-rail affixed, and the passage
cleared out, till it looked so creditable, as well as solid, that there was no more to wish
for but that Louis should be able to see their handiwork.

James went away in the better spirits for having been allowed to shake Louis by the hand and
exchange a few words with him.  Mary augured that it would be the better for Clara and for
the pupils.

All that further transpired from him was a cheerful letter to Mrs. Frost, speaking of Clara
as perfectly well, and beginning to accommodate herself to her situation, and from this Mary
gathered that he was better satisfied.

The days brought gradual improvement to the patient, under Mrs. Frost's tender nursing, and
his father's constant assiduity; both of which, as he revived, seemed to afford him the greatest
pleasure, and were requited with the utmost warmth and caressing sweetness towards his aunt,
and towards his father with ever-fresh gratitude and delight. Lord Ormersfield was like another
man, in the sick-room, whence he never willingly absented himself for an hour.

One day, however, when he was forced to go to Northwold on business, Louis put on a fit of
coaxing importunity.  Nothing would serve him but some of Jane Beckett's choice dried pears,
in the corner of the oaken cupboard, the key of which was in Aunt Kitty's pocket, and no one
must fetch them for him but Aunt Kitty herself, he was so absurdly earnest and grave about
them, that Jane scolded him, and Mrs. Frost saw recovery in his arch eyes; understanding all
the time that it was all an excuse for complimenting Jane, and sending her to air herself,
visit the Faithfull sisters, and inspect the Lady of Eschalott.  So she consented to accompany
Lord Ormersfield, and leave their charge to Mrs. Ponsonby, who found Louis quite elated at
the success of his manoeuvre--so much disposed to talk, and so solicitous for the good of his
nurses, that she ventured on a bold stroke.

His chamber was nearly as much like a lumber-room as ever; for any attempt to clear away or
disturb his possessions had seemed, in his half-conscious condition, to excite and tease him
so much, that it had been at once relinquished.  Although the room was large, it was always
too much crowded with his goods; and the tables and chairs that had been brought in during
his illness, had added to the accumulation which was the despair of Mrs. Beckett and Mr. Frampton.
Mrs. Ponsonby thought it was time for Louis to make a sacrifice in his turn, and ventured to
suggest that he was well enough to say where some of his things might be bestowed; and though
he winced, she persevered in representing how unpleasant it must be to his father to live in
the midst of so much confusion.  The debonnaire expression passed over his face, as he glanced
around, saying, 'You are right. I never reflected on the stretch of kindness it must have been.
It shall be done.  If I lose everything, it will not be soon that I find it out.'

It evidently cost him a good deal, and Mrs. Ponsonby proposed that Mary should come and deal
with his treasures; a plan at which he caught so eagerly, that it was decided that no time
was like the present, and Mary was called.  He could move nothing but his hands; but they were
eagerly held out in welcome: and his eyes glittered with the bright smile that once she had
feared never to see again. She felt a moisture in her own which made her glad to turn aside
to her task even while he complimented her with an allusion to the labours of Hercules.  It
did not seem uncalled-for, when she began by raising a huge sheet of paper that had been thrown
in desperation to veil the confusion upon the table, and which proved to be the Ordnance map
of the county, embellished with numerous streaks of paint.  'The outlines of the old Saxon
wappentakes,' said Louis: 'I was trying to make them out in blue, and the Roman roads in red.
That mark is spontaneous; it has been against some paint.'

Which paint was found in dried swamps in saucers, while cakes of lake and Prussian blue adhered
to the drawing-board.

'The colour-box is probably in the walnut-press; but I advise you not to irritate that yet.
Let me see that drawing, the design for the cottages that Frampton nipped in the bud--'

'How pretty and comfortable they do look!' exclaimed Mary, pleased to come to something that
was within her sphere of comprehension. 'If they were but finished!'

'Ah!  I thought of them when I was lying there in the dell!   Had they been allowed to stand
where I wanted them, there would have been no lack of people going home from work; but, 'Quite
impracticable' came in my way, and I had no heart to finish the drawing.'

'What a pity!' exclaimed Mary.

'This was Richardson's veto, two degrees worse than Frampton's; and I shall never be able to
abuse Frampton again.  I have seen him in his true light now, and never was any one more kind
and considerate.  Ha, Mary, what's that?'

'It looks like a rainbow in convulsions.'

'Now, Mary, did not I tell you that I could not laugh?  It is a diagram to illustrate the theory
of light for Clara.'

'Does she understand that?' cried Mary.

'Clara?  She understands anything but going to school--poor child! Yes, burn that map of the
strata,--not that--it is to be a painted window whenever I can afford one, but I never could
make money stay with me. I never could think why--'

The why was evident enough in the heterogeneous mass--crumpled prints, blank drawing-paper,
and maps heaped ruinously over and under books, stuffed birds, geological specimens, dislocated
microscopes, pieces of Roman pavement, curiosities innumerable and indescribable; among which
roamed blotting-books, memorandum-books, four pieces of Indian rubber, three pair of compasses,
seven paper-knives, ten knives, thirteen odd gloves, fifteen pencils, pens beyond reckoning,
a purse, a key, half a poem on the Siege of Granada, three parts of an essay upon Spade Husbandry,
the dramatis personae of a tragedy on Queen Brunehault, scores of old letters, and the dust
of three years and a half.

Louis owned that the arrangements conduced to finding rather than losing, and rejoiced at the
disinterment of his long-lost treasures; but either he grew weary, or the many fragments, the
ghosts of departed fancies, made him thoughtful; for he became silent, and only watched and
smiled as Mary quietly and noiselessly completed her reforms, and arranged table and chairs
for the comfort of his father and aunt.  He thanked her warmly, and hoped that she would pursue
her kind task another day,--a permission which she justly esteemed a great testimony to her
having avoided annoying him.  It was a great amusement to him to watch the surprised and pleased
looks of his various nurses as each came in, and a real gratification to see his father settle
himself with an air of comfort, observing that 'they were under great obligations to Mary.'
Still, the sight of the arrangements had left a dreary, dissatisfied feeling with Louis: it
might have been caught from Mary's involuntary look of disappointment at each incomplete commencement
that she encountered,--the multitude of undertakings hastily begun, laid aside and neglected--nothing
properly carried out.  It seemed a mere waste of life, and dwelt on his spirits, with a weariness
of himself and his own want of steadfastness--a sense of having disappointed her and disappointed
himself, and he sighed so heavily several times, that his aunt anxiously asked whether he were
in pain.  He was, however, so much better, that no one was to sit up with him at night--only
his father would sleep on a bed on the floor.  As he bade him good night, Louis, for the first
time, made the request that he might have his Bible given to him, as well as his little book;
and on his father advising him not to attempt the effort of reading, he said, 'Thank you; I
think I can read my two verses: I want to take up my old habits.'

'Have you really kept up this habit constantly?' asked his father, with wonder that Louis did
not understand.

'Aunt Catharine taught it to us, he said.  'I neglected it one half-year at school; but I grew
so uncomfortable, that I began again.'

The Earl gave the little worn volume, saying, 'Yes, Louis, there has been a thread running
through your life.'

'Has there been one thread?' sadly mused Louis, as he found the weight of the thick book too
much for his weak hands, and his eyes and head too dizzy and confused for more than one verse:--

     'I am come that they might have life,
      And that they might have it more abundantly.''

The Bible sank in his hands, and he fell into a slumber so sound and refreshing, that when
he opened his eyes in early morning, he did not at first realize that he was not awakening
to health and activity, nor why he had an instinctive dread of moving.  He turned his eyes
towards the window, uncurtained, so that he could see the breaking dawn.  The sky, deep blue
above, faded and glowed towards the horizon into gold, redder and more radiant below; and in
the midst, fast becoming merged in the increasing light, shone the planet Venus, in her pale,
calm brilliance.

There was repose and delight in dwelling on that fair morning sky, and Louis lay dreamily gazing,
while thoughts passed over his mind, more defined and connected than pain and weakness had
as yet permitted. Since those hours in which he had roused his faculties to meet with approaching
death, he had been seldom awake to aught but the sensations of the moment, and had only just
become either strong enough, or sufficiently at leisure for anything like reflection.  As he
watched the eastern reddening, he could not but revert to the feelings with which he had believed
himself at the gate of the City that needs neither sun nor moon to lighten it, and, for the
first time, he consciously realized that he was restored to this world of life.

The sensation was not unmixed.  His youthful spirit bounded at the prospect of returning vigour,
his warm heart clung round those whom he loved, and the perception of his numerous faults made
him grateful for a longer probation; but still he had a sense of having been at the borders
of the glorious Land, and thence turned back to a tedious, doubtful pilgrimage.

There was much to occasion this state of mind.  His life had been without great troubles, but
with many mortifications; he had never been long satisfied with himself or his pursuits, his
ardour had only been the prelude to vexation and self-abasement, and in his station in the
world there was little incentive to exertion.  He had a strong sense of responsibility, with
a temperament made up of tenderness, refinement, and inertness, such as shrank from the career
set before him.  He had seen just enough of political life to destroy any romance of patriotism,
and to make him regard it as little more than party spirit, and dread the hardening and deadening
process on the mind.  He had a dismal experience of his own philanthropy; and he had a conscience
that would not sit down satisfied with selfish ease, pleasure, or intellectual pursuits.  His
smooth, bright, loving temper had made him happy; but the past was all melancholy, neglect,
and futile enterprise; he had no attaching home--no future visions; and, on the outskirts of
manhood, he shrank back from the turmoil, the temptations, and the roughness that awaited him--nay,
from the mere effort of perseverance, and could almost have sighed to think how nearly the
death-pang had been over, and the home of Love, Life, and Light had been won for ever:--

     'I am come that they might have life,
      And that they might have it more abundantly.'

The words returned on him, and with them what his father had said, 'You have had a thread running
through your life.'  He was in a state between sleeping and waking, when the confines of reflection
and dreaming came very near together, and when vague impressions, hardly noticed at the time
they were made, began to tell on him without his own conscious volition.  It was to him as
if from that brightening eastern heaven, multitudes of threads of light were floating hither
and thither, as he had often watched the gossamer undulating in the sunshine.  Some were firm,
purely white, and glistening here and there with rainbow tints as they tended straight upwards,
shining more and more into the perfect day; but for the most part they were tangled together
in inextricable confusion, intermingled with many a broken end, like fleeces of cobweb driven
together by the autumn wind,--some sailing aimlessly, or with shattered tangled strands-some
white, some dark, some anchored to mere leaves or sprays, some tending down to the abyss, but
all in such a perplexed maze that the eye could seldom trace which were directed up, which
downwards, which were of pure texture, which defiled and stained.

In the abortive, unsatisfactory attempt to follow out one fluctuating clue, not without whiteness,
and heaving often upwards, but frail, wavering, ravelled, and tangled, so that scarcely could
he find one line that held together, Louis awoke to find his father wondering that he could
sleep with the sun shining full on his face.

'It was hardly quite a dream,' said Louis, as he related it to Mrs. Frost.

'It would make a very pretty allegory.'

'It is too real for that just now,' he said.  'It was the moral of all my broken strands that
Mary held up to me yesterday.'

'I hope you are going to do more than point your moral, my dear.  You always were good at that.'

'I mean it,' said Louis, earnestly.  'I do not believe such an illness--ay, or such a dream--can
come for nothing.'

So back went his thoughts to the flaws in his own course; and chiefly he bewailed his want
of sympathy for his father.  Material obedience and submission had been yielded, but, having
little cause to believe himself beloved, his heart had never been called into action so as
to soften the clashings of two essentially dissimilar characters. Instead of rebelling, or
even of murmuring, he had hid disappointment in indifference, taken refuge in levity and versatility,
and even consoled himself by sporting with what he regarded as prejudice or unjust displeasure.
All this cost him much regret and self-reproach at each proof of the affection so long veiled
by reserve.  Never would he have given pain, had he guessed that his father could feel; but
he had grown up to imagine the whole man made up of politics and conventionalities, and his
new discoveries gave him at least as much contrition as pleasure.

After long study of the debates, that morning, his father prepared to write.  Louis asked for
the paper, saying his senses would just serve for the advertisements, but presently he made
an exclamation of surprise at beholding, in full progress, the measure which had brought Sir
Miles Oakstead to Ormersfield, one of peculiar interest to the Earl.  His blank look of wonder
amused Mrs. Ponsonby, but seemed somewhat to hurt his father.

'You did not suppose I could attend to such matters now?' he said.

'But I am so much better!'

Fearing that the habit of reserve would check any exchange of feeling, Mrs. Ponsonby said,
'Did you fancy your father could not think of you except upon compulsion?'

'I beg your pardon, father,' said Louis, smiling, while a tear rose to his eyes, 'I little
thought I was obstructing the business of the nation.  What will Sir Miles do to me?'

'Sir Miles has written a most kind and gratifying letter,' said Lord Ormersfield, 'expressing
great anxiety for you, and a high opinion of your powers.'

Louis had never heard of his own powers, except for mischief, and the colour returned to his
cheeks, as he listened to the kind and cordial letter, written in the first shock of the tidings
of the accident. He enjoyed the pleasure it gave his father far more than the commendation
to himself; for he well knew, as he said, that 'there is something embellishing in a catastrophe,'
and he supposed 'that had driven out the rose-coloured pastor.'

'There is always indulgence at your age,' said the Earl.  'You have created an impression which
may be of great importance to you by-and-by.'

Louis recurred to politics.  The measure was one which approved itself to his mind, and he
showed all the interest which was usually stifled, by such subjects being forced on him.  He
was distressed at detaining his father when his presence might be essential to the success
of his party, and the Earl could not bear to leave him while still confined to his bed.  The
little scene, so calm, and apparently so cold, seemed to cement the attachment of father and
son, by convincing Louis of the full extent of his father's love; and his enthusiasm began
to invest the Earl's grey head with a perfect halo of wisdom slighted and affection injured;
and the tenor of his thread of life shone out bright and silvery before him, spun out of projects
of devoting heart and soul to his father's happiness, and meriting his fondness.

The grave Earl was looking through a magnifying-glass no less powerful. He had not been so
happy since his marriage; the consciousness of his own cold manner made him grateful for any
demonstration from his son, and the many little graces of look and manner which Louis had inherited
from his mother added to the charm. The sense of previous injustice enhanced all his good qualities,
and it was easy to believe him perfect, while nothing was required of him but to lie still.
Day and night did Lord Ormersfield wait upon him, grudging every moment spent away from him,
and trying to forestall each wish, till he became almost afraid to express a desire, on account
of the trouble it would cause. Mary found the Earl one day wandering among the vines in the
old hothouse, in search of a flower, when, to her amusement, he selected a stiff pert double
hyacinth, the special aversion of his son, who nevertheless received it most graciously, and
would fain have concealed the headache caused by the scent, until Mrs. Frost privately abstracted
it.  Another day, he went, unasked, to hasten the birdstuffer in finishing the rose-coloured
pastor; and when it came, himself brought it up-stairs, unpacked it, and set it up where Louis
could best admire its black nodding crest and pink wings; unaware that to his son it seemed
a memento of his own misdeeds--a perpetual lesson against wayward carelessness.

'It is like a new love,' said Mrs. Ponsonby; 'but oh! how much depends upon Louis after his
recovery!'

'You don't mistrust his goodness now, mamma!'

'I could not bear to do so.  I believe I was thinking of his father more than of himself. 
After having been so much struck by his religious feeling, I dread nothing so much as his father
finding him deficient in manliness or strength of character.'

CHAPTER VIII.

A TRUANT DISPOSITION.

  Gathering up each broken thread.
                             WHYTEHEAD.

'Tom Madison is come back,' said the Vicar, as he sat beside Fitzjocelyn's couch, a day or
two after Lord Ormersfield had gone to London.

'Come back--where has he been?' exclaimed Louis.

'There!' said the Vicar, with a gesture of dismay; 'I forgot that you were to hear nothing
of it!  However, I should think you were well enough to support the communication.'

'What is it?' cried Louis, the blood rushing into his cheeks so suddenly, that Mr. Holdsworth
felt guilty of having disregarded the precautions that he had fancied exaggerated by the fond
aunt.  'Poor fellow--he has not--' but, checking himself, he added, 'I am particularly anxious
to hear of him.'

'I wish there were anything more gratifying to tell you; but he took the opportunity of the
height of your illness to run away from his place, and has just been passed home to his parish.
After all your pains, it is very mortifying, but--'

'Pains!  Don't you know how I neglected him latterly!' said Louis. 'Poor fellow--then--' but
he stopped himself again, and added, 'You heard nothing of the grounds?'

'They were not difficult to find,' said Mr. Holdsworth.  'It is the old story.  He was, as
Mrs. Smith told me, 'a great trial'--more and more disposed to be saucy and disobedient, taking
up with the most good-for-nothing boys in the town, haunting those Chartist lectures, and never
coming home in proper time at night.  The very last evening, he had come in at eleven o'clock,
and when his master rebuked him, came out with something about the rights of man.  He was sent
to Little Northwold, about the middle of the day, to carry home some silver-handled knives
of Mr. Calcott's, and returned no more. Smith fancied, at first, that he had made off with
the plate, and set the police after him, but that proved to be an overhasty measure, for the
parcel had been safely left.  However, Miss Faithfull's servant found him frightening Mrs.
Frost's poor little kitchen-maid into fits, and the next day James Frost detected him lurking
suspiciously about the garden here, and set Warren to warn him off--'

Louis gave a kind of groan, and struck his hand against the couch in despair, then said, anxiously,
'What then?'

'No more was heard of him, till yesterday the police passed him home to the Union as a vagabond.
He looks very ill and ragged; but he is in one of those sullen moods, when no one can get a
word out of him. Smith declines prosecuting for running away, being only too glad of the riddance
on any terms; so there he is at his grandfather's, ready for any sort of mischief.'

'Mr. Holdsworth,' said Louis, raising himself on his elbow, 'you are judging, like every one
else, from appearances.  If I were at liberty to tell the whole, you would see what a noble
nature it was that I trifled with; and they have been hounding--Poor Tom! would it have been
better for him that I had never seen him?  It is a fearful thing, this blind treading about
among souls, not knowing whether one does good or harm!'

'If you feel so,' said Mr. Holdsworth, hoping to lead him from the unfortunate subject, 'what
must we do?'

'My position, if I live, seems to have as much power for evil, without the supernatural power
for good.  Doing hastily, or leaving undone, are equally fatal!'

'Nay, what hope can there be but in fear, and sense of responsibility?'

'I think not.  I do more mischief than those who do not go out of their way to think of the
matter at all!'

'Do you!' said the Vicar, smiling.  'At least, I know, for my own part, I prefer all the trouble
and perplexity you give me, to a squire who would let me and my parish jog on our own way.'

'I dare say young Brewster never spoilt a Tom Madison.'

'The sight of self indulgence spoils more than injudicious care does. Besides, I look on these
experiments as giving experience.'

'Nice experience of my best efforts!'

'Pardon me, Fitzjocelyn, have we seen your best?'

'I hope you will!' said Louis, vigorously.  'And to begin, will you tell this poor boy to come
to me?'

Mr. Holdsworth had an unmitigated sense of his own indiscretion, and not such a high one of
Fitzjocelyn's discretion as to make him think the interview sufficiently desirable for the
culprit, to justify the possible mischief to the adviser, whose wisdom and folly were equally
perplexing, and who would surely be either disappointed or deceived. Dissuasions and arguments,
however, failed; and Mrs. Frost, who was appealed to as a last resource, no sooner found that
her patient's heart was set on the meeting, than she consented, and persuaded Mr. Holdsworth
that no harm would ensue equal to the evil of her boy lying there distressing himself.

Accordingly, in due time, Mr. Holdsworth admitted the lad, and, on a sign from Louis, shut
himself out, leaving the runaway standing within the door, a monument of surly embarrassment.
Raising himself, Louis said, affectionately, 'Never mind, Tom, don't you see how fast I am
getting over it?'

The lad looked up, but apparently saw little such assurance in the thin pale cheeks, and feeble,
recumbent form; for his face twitched all over, resumed the same sullen stolidity, and was
bent down again.

'Come near, Tom,' continued Louis, with unabated kindness--'come and sit down here.  I am afraid
you have suffered a great deal,' as the boy shambled with an awkward footsore gait.  'It was
a great pity you ran away.'

'I couldn't stay!' burst out Tom, half crying.

'Why not?'

'Not to have that there cast in my teeth!' he exclaimed, with blunt incivility.

'Did any one reproach you?' said Louis, anxiously.  'I thought no one knew it but ourselves.'

'You knew it, then, my Lord?' asked Tom, staring.

'I found out directly that there was no cement,' said Louis.  'I had suspected it before, and
intended to examine whenever I had time.'

'Well!  I thought, when I came back, no one did seem to guess as 'twas all along of me!' cried
Tom.  'So sure I thought you hadn't known it, my Lord.  And you never said nothing, my Lord!'

'I trust not.  I would not consciously have accused you of what was quite as much my fault
as yours.  That would not have been fair play.'

'If I won't give it to Bill Bettesworth!' cried Tom.

'What has he done?'

'Always telling me that gentlefolks hadn't got no notion of fair play with the like of us,
but held us like the dirt to be trampled on! But there--I'll let him know--'

'Who is he?'

'A young man what works with Mr. Smith,' returned Tom, his sullenness having given place to
a frank, open manner, such as any one but Louis would have deemed too free and ready.

'Was he your great friend at Northwold?'

'A chap must speak to some one,' was Tom's answer.

'And what kind of a some one was he?'

'Why, he comes down Illershall way.  He knows a thing or two, and can go on like an orator
or a play-book--or like yourself, my Lord.'

'Thank you.  I hope the thing or two were of the right sort.'

Tom looked sheepish.

'I heard something about bad companions.  I hope he was not one.  I ought to have come and
visited you, Tom; I have been very sorry I did not.  You'd better let me hear all about it,
for I fear there must have been worse scrapes than this of the stones.'

'Worse!' cried Tom--'sure nothing could be worserer!'

'I wish there were no evils worse than careless forgetfulness,' said Louis.

'I didn't forget!' said Tom.  'I meant to have told you whenever you came to see me, but'--his
eyes filled and his voice began to alter--'you never came, and she at the Terrace wouldn't
look at me! And Bill and the rest of them was always at me, asking when I expected my aristocrat,
and jeering me 'cause I'd said you wasn't like the rest of 'em.  So then I thought I'd have
my liberty too, and show I didn't care no more than they, and spite you all.'

'How little one thinks of the grievous harm a little selfish heedlessness may do!' sighed Louis,
half aloud.  'If you had only looked to something better than me, Tom!  And so you ran into
mischief?'

Half confession, half vindication ensued, and the poor fellow's story was manifest enough.
His faults had been unsteadiness and misplaced independence rather than any of the more degrading
stamp of evils. The public-house had not been sought for liquor's sake, but for that of the
orator who inflamed the crude imaginations and aspirations that effervesced in the youth's
mind; and the rudely-exercised authority of master and foreman had only driven his fierce temper
further astray. With sense of right sufficient to be dissatisfied with himself, and taste and
principle just enough developed to loathe the evils round him, hardened and soured by Louis's
neglect, and rendered discontented by Chartist preachers, he had come to long for any sort
of change or break; and the tidings of the accident, coupled with the hard words which he knew
himself to deserve but too well, had put the finishing stroke.

Hearing that the police were in pursuit of him, he had fancied it was on account of the harm
done by his negligence.  'I hid about for a day,' he said: 'somehow I felt as if I could not
go far off, till I heard how you were, my Lord, and I'd made up my mind that as soon as ever
I heard the first stroke of the bell, I'd go and find the police, and his Lordship might hang
me, and glad!'

Louis was nearer a tear than a smile.

'Then Mr. Frost finds me, and was mad at me.  Nothing wasn't bad enough for me, and he sets
Mr. Warren to see me off, so I had nothing for it but to cut.'

'What did you think of doing?' sighed Louis.

'I made for the sea.  If I could have got to them places in the Indies, such as that Philip
went to, as you reads about in the verse-book--he as killed his wife and lost his son, and
made friends with that there big rascal, and had the chest of gold--'

'Philip Mortham!  Were you going in search of buccaneers?'

'I don't know, my Lord.  Once you told me of some English Sir, as kills the pirates, and is
some sort of a king.  I thought, may be, now you'd tell me where they goes to dig for gold.'

'Oh, Tom, Tom, what a mess I have made of your notions!'

'Isn't there no such place?'

'It's a bad business, and what can you want of it?'

'I want to get shut of them as orders one about here and there, with never a civil word.  Besides,'
looking down, 'there's one I'd like to see live like a lady.'

'Would that make her happier?'

'I'll never see her put about, and slave and drudge, as poor mother did!' exclaimed Tom.

'That's a better spirit than the mere dislike to a master,' said Louis. 'What is life but obedience?'

'I'd obey fast enough, if folk would only speak like you do--not drive one about like a dog,
when one knows one is every bit as good as they.'

'I'm sure I never knew that!'

Tom stared broadly.

'I never saw the person who was not my superior,' repeated Louis, quietly, and in full earnest.
'Not that this would make rough words pleasanter, I suppose.  The only cure I could ever see
for the ills of the world is, that each should heartily respect his neighbour.'

Paradoxes musingly uttered, and flying over his head, wore to Tom a natural and comfortable
atmosphere; and the conversation proceeded. Louis found that geography had been as much at
fault as chronology, and that the runaway had found himself not at the sea, but at Illershall,
where he had applied for work, and had taken a great fancy to Mr. Dobbs, but had been rejected
for want of a character, since the good superintendent made it his rule to keep up a high standard
among his men.  Wandering had succeeded, in which, moneyless, forlorn, and unable to find employment,
he had been obliged to part with portions of his clothing to procure food; his strength began
to give way, and he had been found by the police sleeping under a hedge; he was questioned,
and sent home, crestfallen, sullen, and miserable, unwilling to stay at Marksedge, yet not
knowing where to go.

His hankering was for Illershall, and Louis, thinking of the judicious care, the evening school,
and the openings for promotion, decided at once that the experiment should be tried without
loss of time.  He desired Tom to bring him ink and paper, and hastily wrote:

'DEAR MR. DOBBS,--You would do me a great kindness by employing this poor fellow, and bearing
with him.  I have managed him very ill, but he would reward any care.  Have an eye to him,
and put him in communication with the chaplain.  If you can take him, I will write more at
length.  If you have heard of my accident, you will excuse more at present.

                            'Yours very truly,
                                   'FITZJOCELYN.'

Then arose the question, how Tom was to get to Illershall.  He did not know; and Louis directed
his search into the places where the loose money in his pocket might have been put.  When it
was found, Tom scrupled at the proposed half-sovereign.  Three-and-fourpence would pay for
his ticket.  'You will want a supper and a bed.  Go respectably, Tom, and keep so. It will
be some consolation for the mischief I have done you!'

'You done me harm!' cried Tom.  'Why, 'tis all along of you that I ain't a regularly-built scamp!'

'Very irregularly built, whatever you are!' said Louis.  But I'll tell you what you shall do
for me,' continued he, with anxious earnestness. 'Do you know the hollow ash-tree that shades
over Inglewood stile?  It has a stout sucker, with a honeysuckle grown into it--coming up among
the moss, where the great white vase-shaped funguses grew up in the autumn.'

'I know him, my Lord,' said Tom, brightening at the detail, given with all a sick man's vivid
remembrance of the out-of-doors world.

'I have fixed my mind on that stick!  I think it has a bend at the root.  Will you cut it for
me, and trim it up for a walking-stick?'

'That I will, my Lord!'

'Thank you.  Bring it up to me between seven and eight in the morning, if you please; and so
I shall see you again--'

Mr. Holdsworth was already entering to close the conversation, which had been already over-long
and exciting, for Louis, sinking back, mournfully exclaimed, 'The medley of that poor boy's
mind is the worst of my pieces of work.  I have made him too refined for one class, and left
him too rough for another--discontented with his station, and too desultory and insubordinate
to rise, nobleness of nature turning to arrogance, fact and fiction all mixed up together.
It would be a study, if one was not so sorry!'

Nevertheless, Mr. Holdsworth could not understand how even Fitzjocelyn could have given the
lad a recommendation, and he would have remonstrated, but that the long interview had already
been sufficiently trying; so he did his best to have faith in his eccentric friend's good intentions.

In the early morning, Tom Madison made his appearance, in his best clothes, erect and open-faced,
a strong contrast to the jaded, downcast being who had yesterday presented himself.  The stick
was prepared to perfection, and Louis acknowledged it with gratitude proportioned to the fancies
that he had spent on it, poising it, feeling the cool grey bark, and raising himself in bed
to try how he should lean on it. 'Hang it up there, Tom, within my reach.  It seems like a
beginning of independence.'

'I wish, my Lord,' blurted out Tom, in agitation, 'you'd tell me if you're to go lame for life,
and then I should know the worst of it.'

'I suspect no one knows either the worst or the best,' said Louis, kindly.  'Since the pain
has gone off, I have been content, and asked no questions.  Mr. Walby says my ankle is going
on so well, that it is a real picture, and a pleasure to touch it; and though I can't say the
pleasure is mutual, I ought to be satisfied.'

'You'll only laugh at me!' half sobbed Tom, 'and if there was but anything I could do!  I've
wished my own legs was cut off--and serve me right--ever since I seen you lying there.'

'Thank you; I'm afraid they would have been no use to me!  But, seriously, if I had been moderately
prudent, it would not have happened.  And as it is, I hope I shall be glad of that roll in
Ferny dell to the end of my life.'

'I did go to see after mending them stones!' cried Tom, as if injured by losing this one compensation;
'but they are all done up, and there ain't nothing to do to them.'

'Look here, Tom: if you want to do anything for me, it is easily told, what would be the greatest
boon to me.  They tell me I've spoilt you, and I partly believe it, for I put more of my own
fancies into you than of real good, and the way I treated you made you impatient of control:
and then, because I could not keep you on as I should have wished,--as, unluckily, you and
I were not made to live together on a desert island,--I left you without the little help I
might have given.  Now, Tom, if you go to the bad, I shall know it is all my fault--'

'That it ain't,' the boy tried to say, eagerly, but Louis went on.

'Don't let my bad management be the ruin of you.  Take a turn from this moment.  You know Who
can help you, and Who, if you had thought of Him, would have kept you straight when I forgot.
Put all the stuff out of your head about one man being equal to another.  Equal they are; but
some have the trial of ruling, others of obeying, and the last are the lucky ones.  If we could
only see their souls, we should know it. You'll find evening schools and lectures at Illershall;
you'd better take to them, for you've more real liking for that sort of thing than for mischief;
and if you finished up your education, you'd get into a line that would make you happier, and
where you might do much good. There--promise me that you'll think of these things, and take
heed to your Sundays.'

'I promise,' said Tom.

'And mind you write to me, Tom, and tell how you get on.  I'll write, and let you know about
your grandfather, and Marksedge news and all--'

The 'Thank you, my Lord,' came with great pleasure and alacrity.

'Some day, when you are a foreman, perhaps I may bring Miss Clara to see copper-smelting. 
Only mind, that you'll never go on soundly, nor even be fit to make your pretty tidy nest for
any gentle bird, unless you mind one thing most of all; and that is, that we have had a new
Life given us, and we have to begin now, and live it for ever and ever.'

As he raised himself, holding out his pale, slender hand from his white sleeve, his clear blue
eyes earnestly fixed on the sky, his face all one onward look, something of that sense of the
unseen passed into the confused, turbulent spirit of the boy, very susceptible of poetical
impressions, and his young lord's countenance connected itself with all the floating notions
left in his mind by parable or allegory.  He did not speak, as Louis heartily shook his hardy
red hand, and bade him good speed, but his bow and pulled forelock at the door had in them
more of real reverence than of conventional courtesy.

Of tastes and perceptions above his breeding, the very sense of his own deficiencies had made
him still more rugged and clownish, and removed him from the sympathies of his own class, while
he almost idolized the two most refined beings whom he knew, Lord Fitzjocelyn and Charlotte
Arnold.  On an interview with her, his heart was set. He had taken leave of his half-childish
grandfather, made up his bundle, and marched into Northwold, with three hours still to spare
ere the starting of the parliamentary train.  Sympathy, hope, resolution, and the sense of
respectability had made another man of him; and, above all, he dwelt on the prospect held out
of repairing the deficiencies of his learning. The consciousness of ignorance and awkwardness
was very painful, and he longed to rub it off, and take the place for which he felt his powers.
'I will work!' thought he; 'I have a will to it, and, please God, when I come back next, it
won't be as a rough, ignorant lout that I'll stand before Charlotte!'

'Louis,' said Mary Ponsonby, as she sat at work beside him that afternoon, after an expedition
to the new house at Dynevor Terrace, 'I want to know, if you please, how you have been acting
like a gentleman.'

'I did not know that I had been acting at all of late.'

'I could not help hearing something in Aunt Catharine's garden that has made me very curious.'

'Ha!' cried Louis, eagerly.

'I was sowing some annuals in our back garden, and heard voices through the trellis.  Presently
I heard, quite loud, 'My young Lord has behaved like a real gentleman, as he is, and no mistake,
or I'd never have been here now.'  And, presently, 'I've promised him, and I promise you, Charlotte,
to keep my Church, and have no more to do with them things. I'll keep it as sacred as they
keeps the Temperance pledge; for sure I'm bound to him, as he forgave me, and kept my secret
as if I'd been his own brother: and when I've proved it, won't that satisfy you, Charlotte?'

'And what did Charlotte say?'

'I think she was crying; but I thought listening any more would be unfair, so I ran upstairs
and threw up the drawing-room window to warn them.'

'Oh, Mary, how unfeeling!'

'I thought it could be doing no good!'

'That is so like prudent people, who can allow no true love under five hundred pounds a year!
Did you see them?  How did they look?'

'Charlotte was standing in an attitude, her hands clasped over her broom.  The gentleman was
a country-looking boy--'

'Bearing himself like a sensible, pugnacious cock-robin?  Poor fellow, so you marred their
parting.'

'Charlotte flew into the house, and the boy walked off up the garden. Was he your Madison,
Louis? for I thought my aunt did not think it right to encourage him about her house.'

'And so he is to be thwarted in what would best raise and refine him. That great, bright leading
star of a well-placed affection is not to be allowed to help him through all the storms and
quicksands in his way.'

Good Mary might well open her eyes, but, pondering a little, she said, 'He need not leave off
liking Charlotte, if that is to do him good; but I suppose the question is, what is safest
for her?'

'Well, he is safe enough.  He is gone to Illershall to earn her.'

'Oh! then I don't care!  But you have not answered me, and I think I can guess the boy's secret
that you have been keeping.  Did you not once tell me that you trusted those stones in Ferny
dell to him?'

'Now, Mary, you must keep his secret!'

'But why was it made one?  Did you think it unkind to say that it was his fault?'

'Of course I did.  When I thought it was all over with me, I could not go and charge the poor
fellow with it, so as to make him a marked man. I was only afraid that thinking so often of
stopping myself, I should bring it out by mistake.'

Mary looked down, and thought; then raised her eyes suddenly, and said, as if surprised, 'That
was really very noble in you, Louis!' Then, thinking on, she said, 'But how few people would
think it worth while!'

'Yes,' said Louis; 'but I had a real regard for this poor fellow, and an instinct, perhaps
perverse, of shielding him; so I could not accuse him on my own account.  Besides, I believe
I am far more guilty towards him.  His neglect only hurt my ankle--my neglect left him to fall
into temptation.'

'Yet, by the way he talks of you--'

'Yes, he has the sort of generous disposition on which a little delicacy makes a thousand times
more impression than a whole pile of benefits I hope and trust that he is going to repair all
that is past. I wish I could make out whether good intentions overrule errors in detail, or
only make them more fatal.'

Mary was glad to reason out the question.  Abstract practical views interested her, and she
had much depth and observation, more original than if she had read more and thought less. 
Of course, no conclusion was arrived at; but the two cousins had an argument of much enjoyment
and some advantage to both.

Affairs glided on quietly till the Saturday, when Lord Ormersfield returned.  Never had he
so truly known what it was to come home as when he mounted the stairs, with steps unlike his
usual measured tread, and beheld his son's look of animated welcome, and eager, outstretched hands.

'I was afraid,' said the Earl, presently, 'that you had not felt so well,' and he touched his
own upper lip to indicate that the same feature in his son was covered with down like a young bird.

Louis blushed a little, but spoke indifferently.  'I thought it a pity not to leave it for
the regulation moustache for the Yeomanry.'

'I wish I could think you likely to be fit to go out with the Yeomanry.'

'Every effort must be made!' cried Louis.  'What do they say in London about the invasion?'

It was the year 1847, when a French invasion was in every one's mouth, and Sydney Calcott had
been retailing all sorts of facts about war-steamers and artillery, in a visit to Fitzjocelyn,
whose patriotism had forthwith run mad, so that he looked quite baffled when his father coolly
set the whole down as 'the regular ten years' panic.'  There was a fervid glow within him of
awe, courage, and enterprise, the outward symbol of which was that infant yellow moustache.
He was obliged, however, to allow the subject to be dismissed, while his father told him of
Sir Miles Oakstead's kind inquiries, and gave a message of greeting from his aunt Lady Conway,
delivering himself of it as an unpleasant duty, and adding, as he turned to Mrs. Ponsonby,
'She desired to be remembered to you, Mary.'

'I have not seen her for many years.  Is Sir Walter alive?'

'No; he died about three years ago.'

'I suppose her daughters are not come out yet?'

'Her own are in the school-room; but there is a step-daughter who is much admired.'

'Those cousins of mine,' exclaimed Louis, 'it is strange that I have never seen them.  I think
I had better employ some of my spare time this summer in making their acquaintance.'

Mrs. Ponsonby perceived that the Earl had become inspired with a deadly terror of the handsome
stepdaughter; for he turned aside and began to unpack a parcel.  It was M'Culloch's Natural
Theology, into which Louis had once dipped at Mr. Calcott's, and had expressed a wish to read
it. His father had taken some pains to procure this too-scarce book for him, and he seized
on it with delighted and surprised gratitude, plunging at once into the middle, and reading
aloud a most eloquent passage upon electricity.  No beauty, however, could atone to Lord Ormersfield
for the outrage upon method.  'If you would oblige me, Louis,' he said, 'you would read that
book consecutively.'

'To oblige you, certainly,' said Louis, smiling, and turning to the first page, but his vivacious
eagerness was extinguished.

M'Culloch is not an author to be thoroughly read without a strong effort.  His gems are of
the purest ray, but they lie embedded in a hard crust of reasoning and disquisition; and on
the first morning, Louis, barely strong enough yet for a battle with his own volatility, looked,
and owned himself, dead beat by the first chapter.

Mary took pity on him.  She had been much interested by his account of the work, and would
be delighted if he would read it with her. He brightened at once, and the regular habit began,
greatly to their mutual enjoyment.  Mary liked the argument, Louis liked explaining it; and
the flood of allusions was delightful to both, with his richness of illustration, and Mary's
actual experience of ocean and mountains.  She brought him whatever books he wanted, and from
the benevolent view of entertaining him while a prisoner, came to be more interested than her
mother had ever expected to see her in anything literary.  It was amusing to see the two cousins
unconsciously educating each other--the one learning expansion, the other concentration, of
mind.  Mary could now thoroughly trust Louis's goodness, and therefore began by bearing with
his vagaries, and gradually tracing the grain of wisdom that was usually at their root; and
her eyes were opened to new worlds, where all was not evil or uninteresting that Aunt Melicent
distrusted.  Louis made her teach him Spanish; and his insight into grammar and keen delight
in the majestic language and rich literature infected her, while he was amused by her positive
distaste to anything incomplete, and playfully, though half murmuringly, submitted to his 'good
governess,' and let her keep him in excellent order.  She knew where all his property was,
and, in her quaint, straightforward way, would refuse to give him whatever 'was not good for him.'

It was all to oblige Mary that, when he could sit up and use pen and pencil, he set to work
to finish his cottage plans, and soon drew and talked himself into a vehement condition about
Marksedge.  Mary's patronage drew on the work, even to hasty learning of perspective enough
for a pretty elevation intelligible to the unlearned, and a hopeless calculation of the expense.

The plans lay on the table when next his father came home, and their interest was explained.

'Did you draw all these yourself?' exclaimed the Earl.  'Where did you learn architectural
drawing?  I should have thought them done by a professional hand.'

'It is easy enough to get it up from books,' said Louis; 'and Mary kept me to the point, in
case you should be willing to consider the matter. I would have written out the estimate; but
this book allows for bricks, and we could use the stone at Inglewood more cheaply, to say nothing
of beauty.'

'Well,' said Lord Ormersfield, considering, 'you have every right to have a voice in the management
of the property.  I should like to hear your views with regard to these cottages.'

Colouring deeply, and with earnest thanks, Fitzjocelyn stated the injury both to labourers
and employers, caused by their distance from their work; he explained where he thought the
buildings ought to stand, and was even guarded enough to show that the rents would justify
the outlay.  He had considered the matter so much, that he could even have encountered Richardson;
and his father was only afraid that what was so plausible must be insecure.  Caution contended
with a real desire to gratify his son, and to find him in the right.  He must know the wishes
of the farmer, be sure of the cost, and be certain of the spot intended.  His crippled means
had estranged him from duties that he could not fulfil according to his wishes, and, though
not a hard landlord, he had no intercourse with his tenants, took little interest in his estate,
and was such a stranger to the localities, that Louis could not make him understand the nook
selected for the buildings.  He had seen the arable field called 'Great Courtiers,' and the
farm called 'Small Profits,' on the map, but did not know their ups and downs much better than
the coast of China.

'Mary knows them!' said Louis.  'She made all my measurements there, before I planned the gardens.'

'Mary seems to be a good friend to your designs,' said the Earl, looking kindly at her.

'The best!' said Louis.  'I begin to have some hope of my doings when I see her take them in hand.'

Lord Ormersfield thanked Mary, and asked whether it would be trespassing too much on her kindness
to ask her to show him the place in question.  She was delighted, and they set out at once,
the Earl almost overpowering her by his exceeding graciousness, so that she was nearly ready
to laugh when he complimented her on knowing her way through the bye-paths of his own park
so much better than he did. 'It is a great pleasure to me that you can feel it something like
home,' he said.

'I was so happy here as a child,' said Mary, heartily, 'that it must seem to me more of a home
than any other place.'

'I hope it may always be so, my dear.'

He checked himself, as if he had been about to speak even more warmly; and Mary did the honours
of the proposed site for the cottages, a waste strip fronting a parish lane, open to the south,
and looking full of capabilities, all of which she pointed out after Louis's well-learned lesson,
as eagerly as if it had been her own affair.

Lord Ormersfield gave due force to all, but still was prudent.  'I must find out,' he said,
'whether this place be in my hands, or included in Morris's lease.  You see, Mary, this is
an encumbered property, with every disadvantage, so that I cannot always act as you and Louis
would wish; but we so far see our way out of our difficulties, that, if guided by good sense,
he will be able to effect far more than I have ever done.'

'I believe,' was Mary's answer, 'this green is in the farmer's hands, but that he has no use
for it.'

'I should like to be certain of his wishes.  Farmers are so unwilling to increase the rates,
that I should not like to consent till I know that it would be really a convenience to him.'

Mary suggested that there stood the farmhouse; and the Earl apologetically asked if she would
dislike their proceeding thither, as he would not detain her long.  She eagerly declared that
Louis would be 'so glad,' and Lord Ormersfield turned his steps to the door, where he had only
been once in his life, when he was a very young man, trying to like shooting.

The round-eyed little maid would say nothing but 'Walk in, sir,' in answer to inquiries if
Mr. Norris were at home; and they walked into a parlour, chill with closed windows, and as
stiff and fine as the lilac streamers of the cap that Mrs. Norris had just put on for their
reception.  Nevertheless, she was a sensible, well-mannered woman, and after explaining that
her husband was close at hand, showed genuine warmth and interest in inquiring for Lord Fitzjocelyn.
As the conversation began to flag, Mary had recourse to admiring a handsome silver tankard
on a side table.  It was the prize of a ploughing-match eight years ago, and brought out a
story that evidently always went with it, how Mrs. Norris had been unwell and stayed at home,
and had first heard of her husband's triumph by seeing the young Lord galloping headlong up
the homefield, hurraing, and waving his cap.  He had taken his pony the instant he heard the
decision, and rushed off to be the first to bring the news to Mrs. Norris, wild with the honour
of Small Profits.  'And,' said the farmer's wife, 'I always say Norris was as pleased with
what I told him, as I was with the tankard!'

Norris here came in, an unpretending, quiet man, of the modern, intelligent race of farmers.
There was anxiety at first in his eye, but it cleared off as he heard the cause of his landlord's
visit, and he was as propitious as any cautious farmer could be.  He was strong on the present
inconveniences, and agreed that it would be a great boon to have a few families brought back,
such as were steady, and would not burden the rates; but the few recurred so often as to show
that he was afraid of a general migration of Marksedge.  Lord Ormersfield thereupon promised
that he should be consulted as to the individuals.

'Thank you, my Lord.  There are some families at Marksedge that one would not wish to see nearer
here; and I'll not say but I should like to have a voice in the matter, for they are apt to
take advantage of Lord Fitzjocelyn's kindness.'

'I quite understand you.  Nothing can be more reasonable.  I only acted because my son was
persuaded it was your wish.'

'It is so, my Lord.  I am greatly obliged.  He has often talked of it with me, and I had mentioned
the matter to Mr. Richardson, but he thought your lordship would be averse to doing anything.'

'I have not been able to do all I could have wished,' said the Earl. 'My son will have it in
his power to turn more attention to the property.'

And he is a thorough farmer's friend, as they all say,' earnestly exclaimed Norris, with warmth
breaking through the civil formal manner.

'True,' said Lord Ormersfield, gratified; 'he is very much attached to the place, and all connected
with it.'

'I'm sure they're the same to him,' replied the farmer.  'As an instance, my Lord, you'll excuse
it--do you see that boy driving in the cows?  You would not look for much from him.   Well,
the morning the doctor from London came down, that boy came to his work, crying so that I thought
he was ill.  'No, master,' said he, 'but what'll ever become of us when we've lost my young
Lord?'  And he burst out again, fit to break his heart.  I told him I was sorry enough myself,
but to go to his work, for crying would do no good.  'I can't help it, master,' says he, 'when
I looks at the pigs.  Didn't he find 'em all in the park, and me nutting--and helped me his
own self to drive 'em out before Mr. Warren see 'em, and lifted the little pigs over the gap
as tender as if they were Christians?'

'Yes, that's the way with them all,' interposed Mrs. Norris: 'he has the good word of high
and low.'

Lord Ormersfield smiled: he smiled better than he used to do, and took leave.

'Fitzjocelyn will be a popular man,' he said.

Mary could not help being diverted at this moral deduced from the pig-story.  'Every one is
fond of him,' was all she said.

'Talent and popularity,' continued the Earl.  'He will have great influence.  The free, prepossessing
manner is a great advantage, where it is so natural and devoid of effort.'

'It comes of his loving every one,' said Mary, almost indignantly.

'It is a decided advantage,' continued the Earl, complacently.  'I have no doubt but that he
has every endowment requisite for success. You and your mother have done much in developing
his character, my dear; and I see every reason to hope that the same influence continued will
produce the most beneficial results.'

Mary thought this a magnificent compliment, even considering that no one but her mamma had
succeeded in teaching Louis to read when a little boy, or in making him persevere in anything
now: but then, when Lord Ormersfield did pay a compliment, it was always in the style of Louis XIV.

CHAPTER IX.

THE FAMILY COMPACT.

'Mary,' said Mrs. Frost.

Mrs. Ponsonby was sitting by the open window of the library, inhaling the pleasant scents of
July.  Raising her eyes, she saw her aunt gazing at her with a look somewhat perplexed, but
brim full of mischievous frolic.  However, the question was only--'Where is that boy?'

'He is gone down with Mary to his cottage-building.'

'Oh! if Mary is with him, I don't care,' said Aunt Catharine, sitting down to her knitting;
but her ball seemed restless, and while she pursued it, she broke out into a little laugh,
and exclaimed, 'I beg your pardon, my dear, but I cannot help it.  I never heard anything so
funny!'

'As this scheme,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, with a little hesitation.

'Then you have the other side of it in your letter,' cried Mrs. Frost, giving way to her merriment.
'The Arabian Nights themselves, the two viziers laying their heads together, and sending home
orders to us to make up the match!'

'My letter does not go so far,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, amused, but anxious.

'Yours is the lady's side.  My orders are precise.  Oliver has talked it over with Mr. Ponsonby,
and finds the connexion would be agreeable; so he issues a decree that his nephew, Roland Dynevor--(poor
Jem--he would not know himself!)--should enter on no profession, but forthwith pay his addresses
to Miss Ponsonby, since he will shortly be in a position befitting the heir of our family!'

'You leave Prince Roland in happy ignorance,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, blushing a little.

'Certainly--or he would fly off like a sky-rocket at the first symptom of the princess.'

'Then I think we need not alter our plans.  All that Mary's father tells me is, that he does
not intend to return home as yet, though his successor is appointed, since he is much occupied
by this new partnership with Oliver, and expects that the investment will be successful.  He
quite approves of our living at the Terrace, especially as he thinks I ought to be informed
that Oliver has declared his intentions with regard to his nephew, and so if anything should
arise between the young people, I am not to discourage it.'

'Mary is in request,' said Mrs. Frost, slyly, and as she met Mrs. Ponsonby's eyes full of uneasy
inquiry.  'You don't mean that you have not observed at least his elder lordship's most decided
courtship? Don't be too innocent, my dear.'

'Pray don't say so, Aunt Kitty, or you will make me uncomfortable in staying here.  If the
like ever crossed his mind, he must perceive that the two are just what we were together ourselves.'

'That might make him wish it the more,' Aunt Catharine had almost said, but she restrained
it halfway, and said, 'Louis is hardly come to the time of life for a grande passion.'

'True.  He is wonderfully young, and Mary not only seems much older, but is by no means the
girl to attract a mere youth.  I rather suspect she will have no courtship but from the elders.'

'In spite of her opportunities.  What would some mammas--Lord Ormersfield's bugbear, for instance,
Lady Conway--give for such a chance!  Three months of a lame young Lord, and such a lame young
Lord as my Louis!'

