He will, for instance, be prepared to be so guided in connexion with such questions as whether
disease could, if more knowledge were available, be to a large extent prevented and cured;
as to how far animal experiments would contribute to the acquirement of that knowledge; and
as to how far the physical suffering which might be involved in these experiments can be minimised
or abolished. But not every man is prepared to fall in with this programme of inflicting physical
suffering for the relief of physical suffering. There is also a type of spiritually-minded
man who in this world of violence sets his face uncompromisingly against the taking of any
life and the infliction of any physical suffering--refusing to make himself a partaker of evil.

An idealist of this type will, like Tolstoy, be an anti-militarist. He will advocate a general
gaol delivery for criminals. He will be a vegetarian. He will not allow an animal's life to
be taken in his house, though the mice scamper over his floors. And he will, consistently with
his conviction that it is immoral to resort to force, refuse to take any part in legislation
or government.

This attitude, which is that commended by the Hindoo and the Buddhist religions, is, of course,
a quite unpractical attitude towards life. It is, in fact, a self-destructive attitude, unless
a man's fellow-citizens are prepared by forcible means to secure to him the enjoyment of the
work of his hands or of his inherited property, or unless those who refuse to desist from the
exercise of force are prepared to untake the support of idealists.

We have not only these two classes of men--the ordinary man who has no compunction in resorting
to force when the requirements of life demand it, and the idealist who refuses to have any
lot or part in violence; there is also a hybrid. This male hybrid will descant on the general
iniquity of violence, and then not only connive at those forms of violence which minister to
his personal comforts, but also make a virtue of trying to abate by legal violence some particular
form of physical suffering which happens to offend in a quite special manner his individual
sensibility.

There is absolutely nothing to be said about this kind of reforming crank, except only that
anything which may be said in relation to the female legislative reformer may be appositely
said of him; and perhaps also this, that the ordinary man holds him both in intellectual and
in moral contempt, and is resolved not to allow him to do any really serious injury to the
community.

To become formidable this quasi-male person must, as he recognises, ally himself with the female
legislative reformer.

Passing on to deal with her, it imports us first to realise that while the male voter has--except
where important constitutional issues were in question--been accustomed to leave actual legislation
to the expert, the female reformer gives notice beforehand that she will, as soon as ever she
gets the suffrage, insist on pressing forward by her vote her reforming schemes.

What would result from the ordinary voter legislating on matters which require expert knowledge
will be plain to every one who will consider the evolution of law.

There stand over against each other here, as an example and a warning, the Roman Law, which
was the creation of legal experts: the praetor and the jurisconsult; and the legal system of
the Greeks, which was the creation of a popular assembly--and it was a popular assembly which
was quite ideally intelligent.

Upon the Roman Law has been built the law of the greater part of the civilised world. The Greek
is a by-word for inconsequence.

How can one, then, without cold shudders think of that legal system which the female amateur
legal reformer would bring to the birth?

Let us consider her qualifications.  Let us first take cognisance of the fact that the reforming
woman will neither stand to the principle that man may, where this gives a balance of advantage,
inflict on his fellow-man, and a fortiori upon animals, death and physical suffering; nor yet
will she stand to the principle that it is ethically unlawful to do deeds of violence.

She spends her life halting between these two opinions, eternally shilly-shallying.

She will, for instance, begin by announcing that it can never be lawful to do evil that good
may come; and that killing and inflicting suffering is an evil. (In reality the precept of
not doing evil that good may come has relation only to breaking for idealistic purposes moral
laws of higher obligation.) She will then go back upon that and concede that war may sometimes
be lawful, and that the punishment of criminals is not an evil. But if her emotions are touched
by the forcible feeding of a criminal militant suffragist, she will again go back upon that
and declare that the application of force is an intolerable evil.

Or, again, she will concede that the slaughtering of animals for food is not an evil, but that
what is really unforgivable is the infliction of physical suffering on animals. And all the
time for her, as well as for man, calves and lambs are being emasculated to make her meat succulent;
wild animals are painfully done to death to provide her table with delicacies; birds with young
in the nest are shot so that she may parade in their plumage; or fur-bearing animals are for
her comfort and adornment massacred and tortured in traps.

When a man crank who is co-responsible for these things begins to talk idealistic reforms,
the ordinary decent man refuses to have anything more to say to him.

But when a woman crank holds this language, the man merely shrugs his shoulders. "It is," he
tells himself, "after all, the woman whom God gave him."

It must be confessed that the problem as to how man with a dual nature may best accommodate
himself to a world of violence presents a very difficult problem.

It would obviously be no solution to follow out everywhere a programme of violence. Not even
the predatory animals do that. Tigers do not savage their cubs; hawks do not pluck hawks' eyes;
and dogs do not fight bitches.

Nor would, as has been shown, the solution of the problem be arrived at by everywhere surrendering--if
we had been given the grace to do this--to the compunctious visitings of nature.

What is required is to find the proper compromise.  As to what that would be there is, as between
the ordinary man and woman on the one side, and the male crank and the battalions of sentimental
women on the other, a conflict which is, to all intents and purposes, a sex war.

The compromise which ordinary human nature had fixed upon--and it is one which, ministering
as it does to the survival of the race, has been adopted through the whole range of nature--is
that of making within the world in which violence rules a series of enclaves in which the application
of violence is progressively restricted and limited.

Outside the outermost of the series of ring fences thus constituted would be the realm of uncompromising
violence such as exists when human life is endangered by wild animals, or murderous criminals,
or savages. Just within this outermost fence would be civilised war--for in civilised war non-combatants
and prisoners and wounded are excluded from the application of violence. In like manner we
bring humanity in general within a more sheltered enclosure than animals--pet animals within
a more sheltered enclosure than other animals. Again, we bring those who belong to the white
race within a narrower protecting circle than mankind in general, and those of our own nation
within a still narrower one.

Following out the same principle, we include women and children within a narrower shelter fence
than our adult fellow-male; and we use the weapon of force more reluctantly when we are dealing
with our relatives and friends than when we are dealing with those who are not personally known
to us; and finally, we lay it aside more completely when we are dealing with the women of our
households than when we are dealing with the males.

The cause of civilisation and of the amenities, and the welfare of the nation, of the family,
and of woman, are all intimately bound up with a faithful adherence to this compromise.

But this policy imposes upon those whom it shelters from violence corresponding obligations.

In war non-combatants--not to speak of the wounded on the battlefield--must desist from hostile
action on the pain of being shot down like wild beasts. And though an individual non-combatant
might think it a patriotic action for him to take part in war, the thoughtful man would recognise
that such action was a violation of a well-understood covenant made in the interest of civilisation,
and that to break through this covenant was to abrogate a humanitarian arrangement by which
the general body of non-combatants immensely benefits.

Exactly the same principle finds, as already pointed out, application when a woman employs
direct violence, or aspires to exercise by voting indirect violence.

One always wonders if the suffragist appreciates all that woman stands to lose and all that
she imperils by resort to physical force. One ought not to have to tell her that, if she had
to fight for her position, her status would be that which is assigned to her among the Kaffirs--not
that which civilised man concedes to her.

>From considering the compromise by which man adapts his dual nature to violence in the world,
we turn to that which the female legislative reformer would seek to impose by the aid of her vote.

Her proposal, as the reader will have discerned, would be that all those evils which make appeal
to the feminine emotions should be legally prohibited, and that all those which fail to make
this appeal shall be tolerated.

In the former class would be included those which come directly under woman's ken, or have
been brought vividly before the eyes of her imagination by emotional description. And the specially
intolerable evils will be those which, owing to the fact that they fall upon woman or her immediate
belongings, induce in the female legislative reformer pangs of sympathetic discomfort.

In the class of evils which the suffragist is content to tolerate, or say nothing about, would
be those which are incapable of evoking in her such sympathetic pangs, and she concerns herself
very little with those evils which do not furnish her with a text for recriminations against man.

Conspicuous in this programme is the absence of any sense of proportion. One would have imagined
that it would have been plain to everybody that the evils which individual women suffer at
the hands of man are very far from being the most serious ills of humanity. One would have
imagined that the suffering inflicted by disease and by bad social conditions--suffering which
falls upon man and woman alike--deserved a first place in the thoughts of every reformer. And
one might have expected it to be common knowledge that the wrongs individual men inflict upon
women have a full counterpart in the wrongs which individual women inflict upon men. It may
quite well be that there are mists which here "blot and fill the perspective" of the female
legislative reformer. But to look only upon one's own things, and not also upon the things
of others, is not for that morally innocent.

There is further to be noted in connexion with the female legislative reformer that she has
never been able to see why she should be required to put her aspirations into practical shape,
or to consider ways and means, or to submit the practicability of her schemes to expert opinion.
One also recognises that from a purely human point of view such tactics are judicious. For
if the schemes of the female legislative reformer were once to be reviewed from the point of
view of their practicability, her utility as a legislator would come into question, and the
suffragist could no longer give out that there has been committed to her from on High a mission
to draw water for man-kind out of the wells of salvation.

Lastly, we have to reflect in connection with the female legislative reformer that to go about
proposing to reform the laws means to abandon that special field of usefulness which lies open
to woman in alleviating misery and redressing those hard cases which will, under all laws and
regulations of human manufacture and under all social dispositions, inevitably occur. Now when
a woman leaves a social task which is commensurate with her abilities, and which asks from
her personal effort and self-sacrifice, for a task which is quite beyond her abilities, but
which, she thinks, will bring her personal kudos, shall we impute it to her for righteousness?

V

ULTERIOR ENDS WHICH THE WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE MOVEMENT HAS IN VIEW

We have now sufficiently considered the suffragist's humanitarian schemes, and we may lead
up to the consideration of her further projects by contrasting woman's suffrage as it presents
itself under colonial conditions--i.e. woman's suffrage without the female legislative reformer
and the feminist--with the woman suffrage which is being agitated for in England--i.e. woman
suffrage with the female legislative reformer and the feminist.

In the colonies and undeveloped countries generally where women are in a minority, and where
owing to the fact that practically all have an opportunity of marrying, there are not for woman
any difficult economic and physiological conditions, there is no woman's question; and by consequence
no female legislative reformer or feminist. The woman voter follows, as the opportunist politicians
who enfranchised her intended, the lead of her men-folk--serving only a pawn in the game of
politics. Under such conditions woman's suffrage kleaves things as they are, except only that
it undermines the logical foundations of the law, and still further debases the standard of
public efficiency and public morality.

In countries, such as England, where an excess female population [1] has made economic difficulties
for woman, and where the severe sexual restrictions, which here obtains, have bred in her sex-hostility,
the suffrage movement has as its avowed ulterior object the abrogation of all distinctions
which depend upon sex; and the achievement of the economic independence of woman.

[1] In England and Wales there are, in a population of 8,000,000 women between the ages of
twenty and fifty, 3,000,000 unmarried women.

To secure this economic independence every post, occupation, and Government service is to be
thrown open to woman; she is to receive everywhere the same wages as man; male and female are
to work side by side; and they are indiscriminately to be put in command the one over the other.
Furthermore, legal rights are to be secured to the wife over her husband's property and earnings.
The programme is, in fact, to give to woman an economic independence out of the earnings and
taxes of man.

Nor does feminist ambition stop short here. It demands that women shall be included in every
advisory committee, every governing board, every jury, every judicial bench, every electorate,
every parliament, and every ministerial cabinet; further, that every masculine foundation,
university, school of learning, academy, trade union, professional corporation and scientific
society shall be converted into an epicene institution--until we shall have everywhere one
vast cock-and-hen show.

