In humid climates like ours, sandy soils may seem very open and friable on the surface but
frequently hold some unpleasant subsoil surprises. Over geologic time spans, mineral grains
are slowly destroyed by weak soil acids and clay is formed from the breakdown products. Then
heavy winter rainfall transports these minuscule clay particles deeper into the earth, where
they concentrate. It is not unusual to find a sandy topsoil underlaid with a dense, cement-like,
clayey sand subsoil extending down several feet. If very impervious, a thick, dense deposition
like this may be called hardpan.

The spading fork cannot cure this condition as simply as it can eliminate thin plowpan. Here
is one situation where, if I had a neighbor with a large tractor and subsoil plow, I'd hire
him to fracture my land 3 or 4 feet deep. Painstakingly double or even triple digging will
also loosen this layer. Another possible strategy for a smaller garden would be to rent a gasoline-powered
posthole auger, spread manure or compost an inch or two thick, and then bore numerous, almost
adjoining holes 4 feet deep all over the garden.

Clayey subsoil can supply surprisingly larger amounts of moisture than the granular sandy surface
might imply, but only if the earth is opened deeply and becomes more accessible to root growth.
Fortunately, once root development increases at greater depths, the organic matter content
and accessibility of this clayey layer can be maintained through intelligent green manuring,
postponing for years the need to subsoil again. Green manuring is discussed in detail shortly.

Other sites may have gooey, very fine clay topsoils, almost inevitably with gooey, very fine
clay subsoils as well. Though incorporation of extraordinarily large quantities of organic
matter can turn the top few inches into something that behaves a little like loam, it is quite
impractical to work in humus to a depth of 4 or 5 feet. Root development will still be limited
to the surface layer. Very fine clays don't make likely dry gardens.

Not all clay soils are "fine clay soils," totally compacted and airless. For example, on the
gentler slopes of the geologic old Cascades, those 50-million-year-old black basalts that form
the Cascades foothills and appear in other places throughout the maritime Northwest, a deep,
friable, red clay soil called (in Oregon) Jori often forms. Jori clays can be 6 to 8 feet deep
and are sufficiently porous and well drained to have been used for highly productive orchard
crops. Water-wise gardeners can do wonders with Joris and other similar soils, though clays
never grow the best root crops.

Spotting a Likely Site

Observing the condition of wild plants can reveal a good site to garden without much irrigation.
Where Himalaya or Evergreen blackberries grow 2 feet tall and produce small, dull-tasting fruit,
there is not much available soil moisture. Where they grow 6 feet tall and the berries are
sweet and good sized, there is deep, open soil. When the berry vines are 8 or more feet tall
and the fruits are especially huge, usually there is both deep, loose soil and a higher than
usual amount of fertility.

Other native vegetation can also reveal a lot about soil moisture reserves. For years I wondered
at the short leaders and sad appearance of Douglas fir in the vicinity of Yelm, Washington.
Were they due to extreme soil infertility? Then I learned that conifer trees respond more to
summertime soil moisture than to fertility. I obtained a soil survey of Thurston County and
discovered that much of that area was very sandy with gravelly subsoil. Eureka!

