The baggage wagon had brought the trunks, and when she had paid her bill, they were delivered
at the outer wharf-end, where also arrived at about the same time a miscellaneous assortment
of supplies from the store and a Japanese with her two handbags. So far as Miss Estella Benton
could see, she was about to embark on the last stage of her journey.

"How soon will you start?" she inquired, when the last of the stuff was stowed aboard the little
steamer.

"Twenty minutes or so," Benton answered. "Say," he went on casually, "have you got any money,
Stell? I owe a fellow thirty dollars, and I left the bank roll and my check book at camp."

Miss Benton drew the purse from her hand bag and gave it to him. He pocketed it and went off
down the wharf, with the brief assurance that he would be gone only a minute or so.

The minute, however, lengthened to nearly an hour, and Sam Davis had his blow-off valve hissing,
and Stella Benton was casting impatient glances shoreward before Charlie strolled leisurely back.

"You needn't fire up quite so strong, Sam," he called down. "We won't start for a couple of
hours yet."

"Sufferin' Moses!" Davis poked his fiery thatch out from the engine room. "I might 'a' known
better'n to sweat over firin' up. You generally manage to make about three false starts to
one get-away."

Benton laughed good-naturedly and turned away.

"Do you usually allow your men to address you in that impertinent way?" Miss Benton desired
to know.

Charlie looked blank for a second. Then he smiled, and linking his arm affectionately in hers,
drew her off along the wharf, chuckling to himself. 

Exactly pass he can'you understand the matters not let or private?'"" or said himself addressing
about remarks what
call to remarks about kind let'primitive'""'i've lived matters,'ve,'girl--
why,'ve remarks!'""'call up, you blamed his lady!

 We're what you'll call primitive
out here, yet. You want to forget that master and man business, the servant proposition, and
proper respect, and all that rot. Outside the English colonies in one or two big towns, that
attitude doesn't go in B.C. People in this neck of the woods stand pretty much on the same
class footing, and you'll get in bad and get me in bad if you don't remember that. I've got
ten loggers working for me in the woods. Whether they're impertinent or profane cuts no figure
so long as they handle the job properly. They're men, you understand, not servants. None of
them would hesitate to tell me what he thinks about me or anything I do. If I don't like it,
I can fight him or fire him. They won't stand for the sort of airs you're accustomed to. They
have the utmost respect for a woman, but a man is merely a two-legged male human like themselves,
whether he wears mackinaws or broadcloth, has a barrel of money of none at all. This will seem
odd to you at first, but you'll get used to it. You'll find things rather different out here."

"I suppose so," she agreed. "But it sounds queer. For instance, if one of papa's clerks or
the chauffeur had spoken like that, he'd have been discharged on the spot."

"The logger's a different breed," Benton observed drily. "Or perhaps only the same breed manifesting
under different conditions. He isn't servile. He doesn't have to be."

"Why the delay, though?" she reverted to the point. "I thought you were all ready to go."

"I am," Charlie enlightened. "But while I was at the store just now, Paul Abbey 'phoned from
Vancouver to know if there was an up-lake boat in. His people are big lumber guns here, and
it will accommodate him and won't hurt me to wait a couple of hours and drop him off at their
camp. I've got more or less business dealings with them, and it doesn't hurt to be neighborly.
He'd have to hire a gas-boat otherwise. Besides, Paul's a pretty good head."

