SOME RAMBLING NOTES OF AN IDLE EXCURSION

by Mark Twain

I.

All the journeyings I had ever done had been purely in the way of business. The pleasant May
weather suggested a novelty namely, a trip for pure recreation, the bread-and-butter element
left out. The Reverend said he would go, too; a good man, one of the best of men, although
a clergyman. By eleven at night we were in New Haven and on board the New York boat. We bought
our tickets, and then went wandering around here and there, in the solid comfort of being free
and idle, and of putting distance between ourselves and the mails and telegraphs.

After a while I went to my stateroom and undressed, but the night was too enticing for bed.
We were moving down the bay now, and it was pleasant to stand at the window and take the cool
night breeze and watch the gliding lights on shore. Presently, two elderly men sat down under
that window and began a conversation. Their talk was properly no business of mine, yet I was
feeling friendly toward the world and willing to be entertained. I soon gathered that they
were brothers, that they were from a small Connecticut village, and that the matter in hand
concerned the cemetery. Said one:

"Now, John, we talked it all over amongst ourselves, and this is what we've done. You see,
everybody was a-movin' from the old buryin'-ground, and our folks was 'most about left to theirselves,
as you may say. They was crowded, too, as you know; lot wa'n't big enough in the first place;
and last year, when Seth's wife died, we couldn't hardly tuck her in. She sort o' overlaid
Deacon Shorb's lot, and he soured on her, so to speak, and on the rest of us, too. So we talked
it over, and I was for a lay out in the new simitery on the hill. They wa'n't unwilling, if
it was cheap. Well, the two best and biggest plots was No. 8 and No. 9--both of a size; nice
comfortable room for twenty-six--twenty-six full-growns, that is; but you reckon in children
and other shorts, and strike an average, and I should say you might lay in thirty, or maybe
thirty-two or three, pretty genteel--no crowdin' to signify."

"That's a plenty, William. Which one did you buy?"

"Well, I'm a-comin' to that, John. You see, No. 8 was thirteen dollars, No. 9 fourteen--"

"I see. So's't you took No. 8."

"You wait. I took No. 9. And I'll tell you for why. In the first place, Deacon Shorb wanted
it. Well, after the way he'd gone on about Seth's wife overlappin' his prem'ses, I'd 'a' beat
him out of that No. 9 if I'd 'a' had to stand two dollars extra, let alone one. That's the
way I felt about it. Says I, what's a dollar, anyway? Life's on'y a pilgrimage, says I; we
ain't here for good, and we can't take it with us, says I. So I just dumped it down, knowin'
the Lord don't suffer a good deed to go for nothin', and cal'latin' to take it out o' somebody
in the course o' trade. Then there was another reason, John. No. 9's a long way the handiest
lot in the simitery, and the likeliest for situation. It lays right on top of a knoll in the
dead center of the buryin' ground; and you can see Millport from there, and Tracy's, and Hopper
Mount, and a raft o' farms, and so on. There ain't no better outlook from a buryin'-plot in
the state. Si Higgins says so, and I reckon he ought to know. Well, and that ain't all. 'Course
Shorb had to take No. 8; wa'n't no help for 't. Now, No. 8 jines onto No. 9, but it's on the
slope of the hill, and every time it rains it 'll soak right down onto the Shorbs. Si Higgins
says 't when the deacon's time comes, he better take out fire and marine insurance both on
his remains."

Here there was the sound of a low, placid, duplicate chuckle of appreciation and satisfaction.

"Now, John, here's a little rough draft of the ground that I've made on a piece of paper. Up
here in the left-hand corner we've bunched the departed; took them from the old graveyard and
stowed them one alongside o' t'other, on a first-come-first-served plan, no partialities, with
Gran'ther Jones for a starter, on'y because it happened so, and windin' up indiscriminate with
Seth's twins. A little crowded towards the end of the lay-out, maybe, but we reckoned 'twa'n't
best to scatter the twins. Well, next comes the livin'. Here, where it's marked A, we're goin'
to put Mariar and her family, when they're called; B, that's for Brother Hosea and hisn; C,
Calvin and tribe. What's left is these two lots here--just the gem of the whole patch for general
style and outlook; they're for me and my folks, and you and yourn. Which of them would you
rather be buried in?"

"I swan, you've took me mighty unexpected, William! It sort of started the shivers. Fact is,
I was thinkin' so busy about makin' things comfortable for the others, I hadn't thought about
being buried myself."

"Life's on'y a fleetin' show, John, as the sayin' is. We've all got to go, sooner or later.
To go with a clean record's the main thing. Fact is, it's the on'y thing worth strivin' for, John."

"Yes, that's so, William, that's so; there ain't no getting around it. Which of these lots
would you recommend?"

"Well, it depends, John. Are you particular about outlook?"

"I don't say I am, William, I don't say I ain't. Reely, I don't know. But mainly, I reckon,
I'd set store by a south exposure."

"That's easy fixed, John. They're both south exposure. They take the sun, and the Shorbs get
the shade."

"How about site, William?"

"D's a sandy sile, E's mostly loom."

"You may gimme E, then; William; a sandy sile caves in, more or less, and costs for repairs."

"All right, set your name down here, John, under E. Now, if you don't mind payin' me your share
of the fourteen dollars, John, while we're on the business, everything's fixed."

After some Niggling and sharp bargaining the money was paid, and John bade his brother good
night and took his leave. There was silence for some moments; then a soft chuckle welled up
from the lonely William, and he muttered: "I declare for 't, if I haven't made a mistake! It's
D that's mostly loom, not E. And John's booked for a sandy site after all."

There was another soft chuckle, and William departed to his rest also.

The next day, in New York, was a hot one. Still we managed to get more or less entertainment
out of it. Toward the middle of the afternoon we arrived on board the stanch steamship Bermuda,
with bag and baggage, and hunted for a shady place. It was blazing summer weather, until we
were half-way down the harbor. Then I buttoned my coat closely; half an hour later I put on
a spring overcoat and buttoned that. As we passed the light-ship I added an ulster and tied
a handkerchief around the collar to hold it snug to my neck. So rapidly had the summer gone
and winter come again?

By nightfall we were far out at sea, with no land in sight. No telegrams could come here, no
letters, no news. This was an uplifting thought. It was still more uplifting to reflect that
the millions of harassed people on shore behind us were suffering just as usual.

The next day brought us into the midst of the Atlantic solitudes--out of smoke-colored sounding
into fathomless deep blue; no ships visible anywhere over the wide ocean; no company but Mother
Carey's chickens wheeling, darting, skimming the waves in the sun. There were some seafaring
men among the passengers, and conversation drifted into matter concerning ships and sailors.
One said that "true as the needle to the pole" was a bad figure, since the needle seldom pointed
to the pole. He said a ship's compass was not faithful to any particular point, but was the
most fickle and treacherous of the servants of man. It was forever changing. It changed every
day in the year; consequently the amount of the daily variation had to be ciphered out and
allowance made for it, else the mariner would go utterly astray. Another said there was a vast
fortune waiting for the genius who should invent a compass that would not be affected by the
local influences of an iron ship. He said there was only one creature more fickle than a wooden
ship's compass, and that was the compass of an iron ship. Then came reference to the well known
fact that an experienced mariner can look at the compass of a new iron vessel, thousands of
mile from her birthplace, and tell which way her head was pointing when she was in process
of building.

Now an ancient whale-ship master fell to talking about the sort of crews they used to have
in his early days. Said he:

"Sometimes we'd have a batch of college students Queer lot. Ignorant? Why, they didn't know
the catheads from the main brace. But if you took them for fools you'd get bit, sure. They'd
learn more in a month than another man would in a year. We had one, once, in the Mary Ann,
that came aboard with gold spectacles on. And besides, he was rigged out from main truck to
keelson in the nobbiest clothes that ever saw a fo'castle. He had a chestful, too: cloaks,
and broadcloth coats, and velvet vests; everything swell, you know; and didn't the saltwater
fix them out for him? I guess not! Well, going to sea, the mate told him to go aloft and help
shake out the foreto'gallants'l. Up he shins to the foretop, with his spectacles on, and in
a minute down he comes again, looking insulted. Says the mate, 'What did you come down for?'
Says the chap, 'P'r'aps you didn't notice that there ain't any ladders above there.' You see
we hadn't any shrouds above the foretop. The men bursted out in a laugh such as I guess you
never heard the like of. Next night, which was dark and rainy, the mate ordered this chap to
go aloft about something, and I'm dummed if he didn't start up with an umbrella and a lantern!
But no matter; he made a mighty good sailor before the voyage was done, and we had to hunt
up something else to laugh at. Years afterwards, when I had forgot all about him, I comes into
Boston, mate of a ship, and was loafing around town with the second mate, and it so happened
that we stepped into the Revere House, thinking maybe we would chance the salt-horse in that
big diningroom for a flyer, as the boys say. Some fellows were talking just at our elbow, and
one says, 'Yonder's the new governor of Massachusetts--at that table over there with the ladies.'
We took a good look my mate and I, for we hadn't either of us ever see a governor before. I
looked and looked at that face and then all of a sudden it popped on me! But didn't give any
sign. Says I, 'Mate, I've a notion to go over and shake hands with him.' Says he 'I think I
see you doing it, Tom.' Says I, 'Mate I'm a-going to do it.' Says he, 'Oh, yes, I guess so.
Maybe you don't want to bet you will, Tom?' Say I, 'I don't mind going a V on it, mate.' Says
he 'Put it up.' 'Up she goes,' says I, planking the cash. This surprised him. But he covered
it, and says pretty sarcastic, 'Hadn't you better take your grub with the governor and the
ladies, Tom?' Says I 'Upon second thoughts, I will.' Says he, 'Well Tom, you aye a dum fool.'
Says I, 'Maybe I am maybe I ain't; but the main question is, do you wan to risk two and a half
that I won't do it?' 'Make it a V,' says he. 'Done,' says I. I started, him a giggling and
slapping his hand on his thigh, he felt so good. I went over there and leaned my knuckle: on
the table a minute and looked the governor in the face, and says I, 'Mr. Gardner, don't you
know me? He stared, and I stared, and he stared. Then all of a sudden he sings out, 'Tom Bowling,
by the holy poker! Ladies, it's old Tom Bowling, that you've heard me talk about--shipmate
of mine in the Mary Ann.' He rose up and shook hands with me ever so hearty--I sort of glanced
around and took a realizing sense of my mate's saucer eyes--and then says the governor, 'Plant
yourself, Tom, plant yourself; you can't cat your anchor again till you've had a feed with
me and the ladies!' I planted myself alongside the governor, and canted my eye around toward
my mate. Well, sir, his dead-lights were bugged out like tompions; and his mouth stood that
wide open that you could have laid a ham in it without him noticing it."

There was great applause at the conclusion of the old captain's story; then, after a moment's
silence, a grave, pale young man said:

"Had you ever met the governor before?"

The old captain looked steadily at this inquirer awhile, and then got up and walked aft without
making any reply. One passenger after another stole a furtive glance at the inquirer; but failed
to make him out, and so gave him up. It took some little work to get the talk-machinery to
running smoothly again after this derangement; but at length a conversation sprang up about
that important and jealously guarded instrument, a ship's timekeeper, its exceeding delicate
accuracy, and the wreck and destruction that have sometimes resulted from its varying a few
seemingly trifling moments from the true time; then, in due course, my comrade, the Reverend,
got off on a yarn, with a fair wind and everything drawing. It was a true story, too--about
Captain Rounceville's shipwreck--true in every detail. It was to this effect:

Captain Rounceville's vessel was lost in mid-Atlantic, and likewise his wife and his two little
children. Captain Rounceville and seven seamen escaped with life, but with little else. A small,
rudely constructed raft was to be their home for eight days. They had neither provisions nor
water. They had scarcely any clothing; no one had a coat but the captain. This coat was changing
hands all the time, for the weather was very cold. Whenever a man became exhausted with the
cold, they put the coat on him and laid him down between two shipmates until the garment and
their bodies had warmed life into him again. Among the sailors was a Portuguese who knew no
English. He seemed to have no thought of his own calamity, but was concerned only about the
captain's bitter loss of wife and children. By day he would look his dumb compassion in the
captain's face; and by night, in the darkness and the driving spray and rain, he would seek
out the captain and try to comfort him with caressing pats on the shoulder. One day, when hunger
and thirst were making their sure inroad; upon the men's strength and spirits, a floating barrel
was seen at a distance. It seemed a great find, for doubtless it contained food of some sort.
A brave fellow swam to it, and after long and exhausting effort got it to the raft. It was
eagerly opened. It was a barrel of magnesia! On the fifth day an onion was spied. A sailor
swam off and got it. Although perishing with hunger, he brought it in its integrity and put
it into the captain's hand. The history of the sea teaches that among starving, shipwrecked
men selfishness is rare, and a wonder-compelling magnanimity the rule. The onion was equally
divided into eight parts, and eaten with deep thanksgivings. On the eighth day a distant ship
was sighted. Attempts were made to hoist an oar, with Captain Rounceville's coat on it for
a signal. There were many failures, for the men were but skeletons now, and strengthless. At
last success was achieved, but the signal brought no help. The ship faded out of sight and
left despair behind her. By and by another ship appeared, and passed so near that the castaways,
every eye eloquent with gratitude, made ready to welcome the boat that would be sent to save
them. But this ship also drove on, and left these men staring their unutterable surprise and
dismay into each other's ashen faces. Late in the day, still another ship came up out of the
distance, but the men noted with a pang that her course was one which would not bring her nearer.
Their remnant of life was nearly spent; their lips and tongues were swollen, parched, cracked
with eight days' thirst; their bodies starved; and here was their last chance gliding relentlessly
from them; they would not be alive when the next sun rose. For a day or two past the men had
lost their voices, but now Captain Rounceville whispered, "Let us pray." The Portuguese patted
him on the shoulder in sign of deep approval. All knelt at the base of the oar that was waving
the signal-coat aloft, and bowed their heads. The sea was tossing; the sun rested, a red, rayless
disk, on the sea-line in the west. When the men presently raised their heads they would have
roared a hallelujah if they had had a voice--the ship's sails lay wrinkled and flapping against
her masts--she was going about! Here was rescue at last, and in the very last instant of time
that was left for it. No, not rescue yet--only the imminent prospect of it. The red disk sank
under the sea, and darkness blotted out the ship. By and by came a pleasant sound-oars moving
in a boat's rowlocks. Nearer it came, and nearer-within thirty steps, but nothing visible.
Then a deep voice: "Hol-lo!" The castaways could not answer; their swollen tongues refused
voice. The boat skirted round and round the raft, started away--the agony of it!--returned,
rested the oars, close at hand, listening, no doubt. The deep voice again: "Hol-lo! Where are
ye, shipmates?" Captain Rounceville whispered to his men, saying: "Whisper your best, boys!
now--all at once!" So they sent out an eightfold whisper in hoarse concert: "Here!", There
was life in it if it succeeded; death if it failed. After that supreme moment Captain Rounceville
was conscious of nothing until he came to himself on board the saving ship. Said the Reverend,
concluding:

"There was one little moment of time in which that raft could be visible from that ship, and
only one. If that one little fleeting moment had passed unfruitful, those men's doom was sealed.
As close as that does God shave events foreordained from the beginning of the world. When the
sun reached the water's edge that day, the captain of that ship was sitting on deck reading
his prayer-book. The book fell; he stooped to pick it up, and happened to glance at the sun.
In that instant that far-off raft appeared for a second against the red disk, its needlelike
oar and diminutive signal cut sharp and black against the bright surface, and in the next instant
was thrust away into the dusk again. But that ship, that captain, and that pregnant instant
had had their work appointed for them in the dawn of time and could not fail of the performance.
The chronometer of God never errs!"

There was deep, thoughtful silence for some moments. Then the grave, pale young man said:

"What is the chronometer of God?"

II.

At dinner, six o'clock, the same people assembled whom we had talked with on deck and seen
at luncheon and breakfast this second day out, and at dinner the evening before. That is to
say, three journeying ship-masters, a Boston merchant, and a returning Bermudian who had been
absent from his Bermuda thirteen years; these sat on the starboard side. On the port side sat
the Reverend in the seat of honor; the pale young man next to him; I next; next to me an aged
Bermudian, returning to his sunny islands after an absence of twenty-seven years. Of course,
our captain was at the head of the table, the purser at the foot of it. A small company, but
small companies are pleasantest.

No racks upon the table; the sky cloudless, the sun brilliant, the blue sea scarcely ruffled;
then what had become of the four married couples, the three bachelors, and the active and obliging
doctor from the rural districts of Pennsylvania?--for all these were on deck when we sailed
down New York harbor. This is the explanation. I quote from my note-book:

     Thursday, 3.30 P.M.  Under way, passing the Battery.  The large
     party, of four married couples, three bachelors, and a cheery,
     exhilarating doctor from the wilds of Pennsylvania, are evidently
     traveling together.  All but the doctor grouped in camp-chairs on
     deck.

     Passing principal fort.  The doctor is one of those people who has
     an infallible preventive of seasickness; is flitting from friend to
     friend administering it and saying, "Don't you be afraid; I know
     this medicine; absolutely infallible; prepared under my own
     supervision."  Takes a dose himself, intrepidly.

     4.15 P.M.  Two of those ladies have struck their colors,
     notwithstanding the "infallible."  They have gone below.  The other
     two begin to show distress.

     5 P.M.  Exit one husband and one bachelor.  These still had their
     infallible in cargo when they started, but arrived at the
     companionway without it.

     5.10.  Lady No. 3, two bachelors, and one married man have gone
     below with their own opinion of the infallible.

     5.20.  Passing Quarantine Hulk.  The infallible has done the
     business for all the party except the Scotchman's wife and the
     author of that formidable remedy.

     Nearing the Light-Ship.  Exit the Scotchman's wife, head drooped on
     stewardess's shoulder.

     Entering the open sea.  Exit doctor!

The rout seems permanent; hence the smallness of the company at table since the voyage began.
Our captain is a grave, handsome Hercules of thirty-five, with a brown hand of such majestic
size that one cannot eat for admiring it and wondering if a single kid or calf could furnish
material for gloving it.

Conversation not general; drones along between couples. One catches a sentence here and there.
Like this, from Bermudian of thirteen years' absence: "It is the nature of women to ask trivial,
irrelevant, and pursuing questions--questions that pursue you from a beginning in nothing to
a run-to-cover in nowhere." Reply of Bermudian of twenty-seven years' absence: "Yes; and to
think they have logical, analytical minds and argumentative ability. You see 'em begin to whet
up whenever they smell argument in the air." Plainly these be philosophers.

Twice since we left port our engines have stopped for a couple of minutes at a time. Now they
stop again. Says the pale young man, meditatively, "There!--that engineer is sitting down to
rest again."

Grave stare from the captain, whose mighty jaws cease to work, and whose harpooned potato stops
in midair on its way to his open, paralyzed mouth. Presently he says in measured tones, "Is
it your idea that the engineer of this ship propels her by a crank turned by his own hands?"

The pale young man studies over this a moment, then lifts up his guileless eyes, and says,
"Don't he?"

Thus gently falls the death-blow to further conversation, and the dinner drags to its close
in a reflective silence, disturbed by no sounds but the murmurous wash of the sea and the subdued
clash of teeth.

After a smoke and a promenade on deck, where is no motion to discompose our steps, we think
of a game of whist. We ask the brisk and capable stewardess from Ireland if there are any cards
in the ship.

"Bless your soul, dear, indeed there is. Not a whole pack, true for ye, but not enough missing
to signify."

However, I happened by accident to bethink me of a new pack in a morocco case, in my trunk,
which I had placed there by mistake, thinking it to be a flask of something. So a party of
us conquered the tedium of the evening with a few games and were ready for bed at six bells,
mariner's time, the signal for putting out the lights.

There was much chat in the smoking-cabin on the upper deck after luncheon to-day, mostly whaler
yarns from those old sea-captains. Captain Tom Bowling was garrulous. He had that garrulous
attention to minor detail which is born of secluded farm life or life at sea on long voyages,
where there is little to do and time no object. He would sail along till he was right in the
most exciting part of a yarn, and then say, "Well, as I was saying, the rudder was fouled,
ship driving before the gale, head-on, straight for the iceberg, all hands holding their breath,
turned to stone, top-hamper giving 'way, sails blown to ribbons, first one stick going, then
another, boom! smash! crash! duck your head and stand from under! when up comes Johnny Rogers,
capstan-bar in hand, eyes a-blazing, hair a-flying... no, 'twa'n't Johnny Rogers... lemme see
... seems to me Johnny Rogers wa'n't along that voyage; he was along one voyage, I know that
mighty well, but somehow it seems to me that he signed the articles for this voyage, but--but--whether
he come along or not, or got left, or something happened--"

And so on and so on till the excitement all cooled down and nobody cared whether the ship struck
the iceberg or not.

In the course of his talk he rambled into a criticism upon New England degrees of merit in
ship building. Said he, "You get a vessel built away down Maine-way; Bath, for instance; what's
the result? First thing you do, you want to heave her down for repairs--that's the result!
Well, sir, she hain't been hove down a week till you can heave a dog through her seams. You
send that vessel to sea, and what's the result? She wets her oakum the first trip! Leave it
to any man if 'tain't so. Well, you let our folks build you a vessel--down New Bedford-way.
What's the result? Well, sir, you might take that ship and heave her down, and keep her hove
down six months, and she'll never shed a tear!"

Everybody, landsmen and all, recognized the descriptive neatness of that figure, and applauded,
which greatly pleased the old man. A moment later, the meek eyes of the pale young fellow heretofore
mentioned came up slowly, rested upon the old man's face a moment, and the meek mouth began
to open.

"Shet your head!" shouted the old mariner.

It was a rather startling surprise to everybody, but it was effective in the matter of its
purpose. So the conversation flowed on instead of perishing.

There was some talk about the perils of the sea, and a landsman delivered himself of the customary
nonsense about the poor mariner wandering in far oceans, tempest-tossed, pursued by dangers,
every storm-blast and thunderbolt in the home skies moving the friends by snug firesides to
compassion for that poor mariner, and prayers for his succor. Captain Bowling put up with this
for a while, and then burst out with a new view of the matter.

"Come, belay there! I have read this kind of rot all my life in poetry and tales and such-like
rubbage. Pity for the poor mariner! sympathy for the poor mariner! All right enough, but not
in the way the poetry puts it. Pity for the mariner's wife! all right again, but not in the
way the poetry puts it. Look-a here! whose life's the safest in the whole world The poor mariner's.
You look at the statistics, you'll see. So don't you fool away any sympathy on the poor mariner's
dangers and privations and sufferings. Leave that to the poetry muffs. Now you look at the
other side a minute. Here is Captain Brace, forty years old, been at sea thirty. On his way
now to take command of his ship and sail south from Bermuda. Next week he'll be under way;
easy times; comfortable quarters; passengers, sociable company; just enough to do to keep his
mind healthy and not tire him; king over his ship, boss of everything and everybody; thirty
years' safety to learn him that his profession ain't a dangerous one. Now you look back at
his home. His wife's a feeble woman; she's a stranger in New York; shut up in blazing hot or
freezing cold lodgings, according to the season; don't know anybody hardly; no company but
her lonesomeness and her thoughts; husband gone six months at a time. She has borne eight children;
five of them she has buried without her husband ever setting eyes on them. She watches them
all the long nights till they died--he comfortable on the sea; she followed them to the grave
she heard the clods fall that broke her heart he comfortable on the sea; she mourned at home,
weeks and weeks, missing them every day and every hour--he cheerful at sea, knowing nothing
about it. Now look at it a minute--turn it over in your mind and size it: five children born,
she among strangers, and him not by to hearten her; buried, and him not by to comfort her;
think of that! Sympathy for the poor mariner's perils is rot; give it to his wife's hard lines,
where it belongs! Poetry makes out that all the wife worries about is the dangers her husband's
running. She's got substantialer things to worry over, I tell you. Poetry's always pitying
the poor mariner on account of his perils at sea; better a blamed sight pity him for the nights
he can't sleep for thinking of how he had to leave his wife in her very birth pains, lonesome
and friendless, in the thick of disease and trouble and death. If there's one thing that can
make me madder than another, it's this sappy, damned maritime poetry!"

Captain Brace was a patient, gentle, seldom speaking man, with a pathetic something in his
bronzed face that had been a mystery up to this time, but stood interpreted now since we had
heard his story. He had voyaged eighteen times to the Mediterranean, seven times to India,
once to the arctic pole in a discovery-ship, and "between times" had visited all the remote
seas and ocean corners of the globe. But he said that twelve years ago, on account of his family,
he "settled down," and ever since then had ceased to roam. And what do you suppose was this
simple-hearted, lifelong wanderer's idea of settling down and ceasing to roam? Why, the making
of two five-month voyages a year between Surinam and Boston for sugar and molasses!

Among other talk to-day, it came out that whale-ships carry no doctor. The captain adds the
doctorship to his own duties. He not only gives medicines, but sets broken limbs after notions
of his own, or saws them off and sears the stump when amputation seems best. The captain is
provided with a medicine-chest, with the medicines numbered instead of named. A book of directions
goes with this. It describes diseases and symptoms, and says, "Give a teaspoonful of No. 9
once an hour," or "Give ten grains of No. 12 every half-hour," etc. One of our sea-captains
came across a skipper in the North Pacific who was in a state of great surprise and perplexity.
Said he:

"There's something rotten about this medicine-chest business. One of my men was sick--nothing
much the matter. I looked in the book: it said give him a teaspoonful of No. 15. I went to
the medicine-chest, and I see I was out of No. 15. I judged I'd got to get up a combination
somehow that would fill the bill; so I hove into the fellow half a teaspoonful of No. 8 and
half a teaspoonful of No. 7, and I'll be hanged if it didn't kill him in fifteen minutes! There's
something about this medicine-chest system that's too many for me!"

"Yes, I have heard that said."

"And it's so, too. There ain't a book that begins with it.

At eight o'clock on the third morning out from New York, land was sighted. Away across the
sunny waves one saw a faint dark stripe stretched along under the horizon-or pretended to see
it, for the credit of his eyesight. Even the Reverend said he saw it, a thing which was manifestly
not so. But I never have seen any one who was morally strong enough to confess that he could
not see land when others claimed that they could.

