There has been ample testimony of the excellent way in which this admirable scheme was created
and carried out. Numerous letters, touching in their expressions of gratitude, were received
from men of all ranks whose sufferings were alleviated in the Yeomanry Hospitals; newspapers
commented upon it at the time, but it is only those who were behind the scenes that can tell
what arduous work it entailed, and of how unflinchingly it was faced by the chairman of the
committee. Constant interviews with War Office officials, with doctors, with nurses; the hundreds
of letters that had to be written daily; the questions, necessary and unnecessary, that had
to be answered; the estimates that had to be examined, would have proved a nightmare to anyone
not possessed of the keenest intellect combined with the strongest will. It involved close
and unremitting attention from morning till night, and this not for one week, but for many
months; and yet no detail was ever momentarily shirked by one who loved an outdoor life. Lady
Georgiana realized to the full the responsibilities of having this vast sum of money entrusted
to her by the British public, and not wisely, but too well, did she devote herself to discharging
it.

Her services to the country were as zealous as they were invaluable. By her quick grasp of
the details of administration, by the marvellous tact and skill she exercised, and by the energy
she threw into her undertaking, every difficulty was mastered. At this present time many hundreds
of men, who were ten years ago facing a desperate foe, can reflect gratefully, if sadly, that
they owe their lives to the generous and unselfish efforts of a brave woman who is no longer
with us; for, after all, Lady Georgiana Curzon was human, and had to pay the price of all she
did. Her great exertions seriously told upon her health, as was only to be expected, and long
before the conclusion of her strenuous labours she felt their effects, although she ignored
them. Lady Chesham was no less energetic a worker, and had as an additional anxiety the fact
of her husband and son[42] being both at the front. It was imperative that one of these two
ladies, who were responsible for starting the fund, should personally superintend the erection
and the opening of the large base hospital at Deelfontein, and as Lady Georgiana Curzon had
made herself almost indispensable in London by her adroitness in managing already sorely harassed
War Office officials, and in keeping her committee unanimous and contented, it was decided
that Lady Chesham should proceed to the scene of the war. My sister gladly gave up this stirring
role for the more prosaic, but equally important, work in London, and when I returned home,
in July, 1900, I found her still completely absorbed by her self-imposed task. Already her
health was failing, and overtaxed nature was having its revenge. During the next two years,
in spite of repeated warnings and advice, she gave herself no rest, but all the while she cherished
the wish to pay a visit to that continent which had been the theatre of her great enterprise.
At length, in August, 1902, in the week following the coronation of Their Majesties, we sailed
together for Cape Town, a sea-voyage having been recommended to her in view of her refusal
to try any of the foreign health-resorts, which might have effected a cure. By the death of
her father-in-law, my sister was then Lady Howe, but it will be with her old name of Lady Georgiana
Curzon or "Lady Georgie"--as she was known to her intimates--that the task she achieved will
ever be associated.

More than seven years had elapsed since my first visit, and nearly twenty-six months from the
time I had left South Africa in the July following the termination of the Mafeking siege, when
I found myself back in the old familiar haunts. Groot Schuurr had never looked more lovely
than on the sunny September morning when we arrived there from the mail-steamer, after a tedious
and annoying delay in disembarking of several hours, connected with permits under martial law.
This delay was rendered more aggravating by the fact that, on the very day of our arrival,[43]
the same law ceased to exist, and that our ship was the last to have to submit to the ordeal.
Many and sad were the changes that had come to pass in the two years, and nowhere did they
seem more evident than when one crossed the threshold of Mr. Rhodes's home. The central figure,
so often referred to in the foregoing pages, was no more, and one soon perceived that the void
left by that giant spirit, so inseparably connected with vast enterprises, could never be filled.
This was not merely apparent in the silent, echoing house, on the slopes of the mountain he
loved so well, in the circle of devoted friends and adherents, who seemed left like sheep without
a shepherd, but also in the political arena, in the future prospects of that extensive Northern
Territory which he had practically discovered and opened up. It seemed as if Providence had
been very hard in allowing one individual to acquire such vast influence, and to be possessed
of so much genius, and then not to permit the half-done task to be accomplished.

That this must also have been Mr. Rhodes's reflection was proved by the pathetic words he so
often repeated during his last illness: "So little done, so much to do."

Groot Schuurr was outwardly the same as in the old days, and kept up in the way one knew that
the great man would have wished. We went for the same rides he used to take. The view was as
glorious as ever, the animals were flourishing and increasing in numbers, the old lions gazed
placidly down from their roomy cage on a ledge of Table Mountain, the peacocks screamed and
plumed themselves, and the herd of zebras grazed in picturesque glades. Nothing was changed
there to outward appearances, and one had to go farther afield to see evidences of the dismay
caused by the pillar being abruptly broken off. Cape Town itself, I soon noted, was altered
by the war almost beyond recognition. From the dull and uninteresting seaport town I remembered
it when we came there in 1895, it seemed, seven years later, one of the busiest cities imaginable,
with the most enormous street traffic. The pavements were thronged, the shops were crowded,
and numerous were the smart, khaki-clad figures, bronzed and bearded, that were to be seen
on all sides. The Mount Nelson Hotel, which had been opened just before the war, was crowded
with them--some very youthful, who had early acquired manhood and selfreliance in a foreign
land; others grey-headed, with rows of medal ribbons, dimmed in colour from exposure to all
weathers, whose names were strangely familiar as recording heroic achievements.

At that time Sir Gordon Sprigg, of the Progressive Party, was in power and Prime Minister;
but he was only kept in office by the Bond, who made the Ministers more or less ridiculous
in the eyes of the country by causing them to dance like puppets at their bidding. It was in
the House of Assembly--where he was a whale amongst minnows--that the void was so acutely felt
surrounding the vacant seat so long occupied by Mr. Rhodes, and it was not an encouraging sight,
for those of his supporters who tried to carry on his traditions, to gaze on the sparsely filled
ranks of the Progressive Party, and then at the crowded seats of the Bond on the other side.

We were told, by people who had met the Boer Generals on their recent visit to the colony,
that these latter were not in the least cast down by the result of the war; that they simply
meant to bide their time and win in the Council Chamber what they had lost on the battle-field;
that the oft-reiterated sentence, "South Africa for the Dutch," was by no means an extinct
volcano or a parrot-cry of the past. It was evident that political feeling was, in any case,
running very high; it almost stopped social intercourse, it divided families. To be a member
of the Loyal Women's League was sufficient to be ostracized in any Dutch village, the Boers
pretending that the name outraged their feelings, and that distinctions between loyal and disloyal
were invidious. Federation--Mr. Rhodes's great ideal--which has since come rapidly and triumphantly
to be an accomplished fact, was then temporarily relegated to the background; the Bond, apparently,
had not made up their minds to declare for it, but they were hard at work in their old shrewd
way, obtaining influence by getting their own men appointed to vacancies at the post-office
and in the railway departments, while the Loyalists appeared to be having almost as bad a time
as in the old days before the war. At the present moment, in spite of all the good-will borne
to the new Union of South Africa by great and small in all lands where the British flag flies,
it is well to remember, without harbouring any grudge, certain incidents of the past. A thorough
knowledge of the people which are to be assimilated with British colonists is absolutely necessary,
that all may in the end respect, as well as like, each other.

From Cape Town, where my sister transacted a great deal of business connected with the winding-up
of the Yeomanry Hospital, we went to Bloemfontein, and were the guests at Government House
of my old Mafeking friend, Sir Hamilton Gould Adams, promoted to the important post of Governor
of the Orange River Colony. From that town we drove across to Kimberley, taking two days to
accomplish this somewhat tedious journey. We stayed one night with a German farmer, who had
surrendered to the English when Bloemfontein was occupied by Lord Roberts, and his case was
typical of many similar awkward predicaments which occurred frequently during the ups and downs
of the war. When Lord Roberts's army swept on from Bloemfontein, the Boers in a measure swept
back, and our host was for months persecuted by his own people, finally made a prisoner, and
was within an ace of being shot; in fact, it was only the peace that saved his life.

Next day we made our noonday halt at Poplar Grove, the scene of one of Lord Roberts's fights,
and farther on we passed Koodoos Rand Drift, where General French had cut off Cronje and forced
him back on Paardeberg. All along these roads it was very melancholy to see the ruined farms,
some with the impoverished owner in possession, others still standing empty. A Boer farmhouse
is not at any time the counterpart of the snug dwelling we know in England, but it was heartbreaking
to see these homes as they were at the conclusion of the war, when, in nearly every instance,
the roof, window-frames, and doors, were things of the past. When a waggon could be espied
standing near the door, and a few lean oxen grazing at hand, it was a sign that the owner had
returned home, and, on closer inspection, a whole family of children would probably be discovered
sheltered by a tin lean-to fixed to the side of the house, or huddled in a tent pitched close
by. They all seemed wonderfully patient, but looked despairing and miserable. At one of these
houses we spoke to the daughter of such a family who was able to converse in English. She told
us her father had died during the war, that two of her brothers had fought for the English,
and had returned with khaki uniforms and nothing else, but that the third had thrown in his
lot with the Boers, and had come back the proud possessor of four horses.

At Kimberley we had motors placed at our disposal by Mr. Gardner Williams, manager of the De
Beers Company, and were amused to hear how excited the Kaffirs had been at the first automobile
to appear in the Diamond City, and how they had thrown themselves down to peer underneath in
order to discover the horse. These motors, however, were not of much use on the veldt, and
we soon found Kimberley very dull, and decided to make a flying tour through Rhodesia to Beira,
taking a steamer at that port for Delagoa Bay, on our road to Johannesburg. Our first halting-place
was at Mafeking, where we arrived one bitterly cold, blowy morning at 6 a.m. I do not think
I ever realized, during all those months of the siege, what a glaring little spot it was. When
I returned there two years later: the dust was flying in clouds, the sun was blinding, and
accentuated the absence of any shade.

Six hours spent there were more than sufficient, and it was astounding to think of the many
months that it had been our home. It has often been said, I reflected, that it is the people
you consort with, not the place you live at, that constitute an agreeable existence; and of
the former all I could find to say was, "Where are they gone, the old familiar faces?" Beyond
the Mayor of the town, who called to reiterate warm thanks for the Mafeking Fund, and a nigger
coachman who used to take me out for Sunday drives, I failed to perceive one face I knew in
the town during the siege; but at the convent we received the warmest welcome from the Mother
Superior and the nuns. This community appeared to be in quite affluent circumstances: the building
was restored, the chapel rebuilt and plentifully decorated with new images; there was a full
complement of day-boarders, who were energetically practising on several pianos, and many new
Sisters had made their appearance; upstairs, the room where was located the Maxim gun was filled
by thirty snowwhite beds. It was quite refreshing to find one circle who had recovered from
their hardships, and who, if anything, were rather more prosperous than before the war. We
paid a flying visit to the little cemetery, which was beautifully kept, and where many fairly
recent graves were in evidence, chiefly due to enteric fever after the siege. There we particularly
noted a very fine marble cross, erected to the memory of Captain Ronald Vernon; and as we were
admiring this monument we met an old Kimberley acquaintance in the person of Mrs. Currey, who
had been our hostess at the time of the Jameson Raid. Her husband had since died, and this
lady was travelling round that part of Africa representing the Loyal Women's League, who did
such splendid work in marking out and tending the soldiers' graves.

At Mafeking we picked up the Rhodesian train de luxe, and travelled in the greatest comfort
to Bulawayo, and on to Salisbury. At that town we met a party, comprising, amongst others,
Dr. Jameson and the late Mr. Alfred Beit, who were making a tour of inspection connected with
satisfying the many wants of the Rhodesian settlers. These pioneers were beginning to feel
the loss of the great man to whom they had turned for everything. His faithful lieutenants
were doing their best to replace him, and the rôle of the first-named, apparently, was to make
the necessary speeches, that of the latter to write the equally important cheques.

With these gentlemen we continued our journey to Beira, stopping at a few places of interest
on the way. The country between Salisbury and Beira is flat and marshy, and was, till the advent
of the railway, a veritable Zoological Garden as regards game of all sorts. The climate is
deadly for man and beast, and mortality was high during the construction of the Beira Railway,
which connected Rhodesia with an eastern outlet on the sea. Among uninteresting towns, I think
Beira should be placed high on the list; the streets are so deep in sand that carriages are
out of the question, and the only means of transport is by small trucks on narrow rails. As
may be imagined, we did not linger there, but went at once on board the German steamer, which
duly landed us at Lorenzo Marques forty-eight hours later, after an exceedingly rough voyage.

The following day was Sunday, and having been told there was a service at the English Church
at 9.30 a.m., we duly went there at that hour, only to find the church apparently deserted,
and not a movement or sound emanating therefrom. However, on peeping in at one of the windows,
we discovered a clergyman most gorgeously apparelled in green and gold, preparing to discourse
to a congregation of two persons! Evidently the residents found the climate too oppressively
hot for church that Sunday morning.

In the afternoon we were able to see some portions of that wonderful harbour, of worldwide
reputation. Literally translated, the local name for the same means the "English River," and
it is virtually an arm of the sea, stretching inland like a deep bay, in which three separate
good-sized streams find an outlet. Some few miles up these rivers, we were told, grand shooting
was still to be had, the game including hippopotami, rhinoceroses, and buffalo, which roam
through fever-stricken swamps of tropical vegetation. The glories of the vast harbour of Delagoa
Bay can better be imagined than described. In the words of a resident, "It would hold the navies
of the world," and some years back it might have been purchased for £12,000. With the war just
over, people were beginning to realize how trade and development would be facilitated if this
great seaport belonged to the British Empire. A "United Africa" was already looming in the
distance, and it required but little imagination on the part of the traveller, calling to mind
the short rail journey connecting it with the mining centres of the Transvaal, to determine
what a thriving, busy place Lorenzo Marques would then become. During the day the temperature
was tropical, but by evening the atmosphere freshened, and was almost invigorating as the fierce
sun sank to rest and its place was taken by a full moon. From our hotel, standing high on the
cliff above the bay, the view was then like fairyland: an ugly old coal-hulk, a somewhat antiquated
Portuguese gunboat, and even the diminutive and unpleasant German steamer which had brought
us from Beira, all were tinged with silver and enveloped in romance, to which they could certainly
lay no claim in reality.

