Then he fell. Driven to the wall, as it seemed to him, he took the only road he saw that led,
or seemed to lead, to deliverance. He yielded his will to the voice of the tempter, he tasted
the freedom, the exhilaration, the wild joy that his imagination had pictured--drank deep of it!

And then he paid the price he had known all along he would have to pay, though in the hour
of his severest temptation the knowledge had not had power to make him strong. Neither, in
that hour, had he been able to foresee how hard the price would be. That shadowy, yet very
real other self, his avenging conscience, in whose approval he had so long happily rested,
arose in its wrath and rebuked him as he had never been rebuked before. It scourged him. It
held up before him his bright prospects, his lately acquired and enviable social position,
assuring him as it held them up, of their insecurity. It pointed with warning finger to the
end of the rainbow and the road leading to it seemed to have suddenly grown ten times longer
and rougher than before.

Finally it held up the images of his two good angels, "Muddie," with her heart of oak, and
her tender, sorrow-stricken face, and Virginia, whose soft eyes were a heaven of trustful love--whose
beauty, whose purity and innocence, the stored sweets of whose nature were for him alone, and
to whom he was as faultless, as supreme as the sun in heaven.

It was too much. The dejection into which his "blue devils" had cast him was as nothing to
the remorse that overwhelmed him now. On his knees before Heaven he confessed that his last
estate was worse than his first, and cried aloud for forgiveness for the past and strength
for the future.

In this mood he sat down to write to Mr. Kennedy (who had been absent upon a summer vacation
when he left Baltimore) a letter of acknowledgment for his benefactions--for whatever The Dreamer
was, it is very certain that he was not ungrateful.

The date he placed at the top of his page was "September 11, 1835."

"I received a letter yesterday," he wrote, "which tells me you are back in town. I hasten therefore,
to write you and express by letter what I have always found it impossible to express orally--my
deep sense of gratitude for your frequent and effectual assistance and kindness.

"Through your influence Mr. White has been induced to employ me in assisting him with the editorial
duties of his Magazine--at a salary of $520 per annum."

He had not intended to mention his troubles to Mr. Kennedy, but with each word he wrote the
impulse to unburden himself which he always felt when talking to this kind, sympathetic man,
grew stronger and he found his pen almost automatically taking an unexpected turn. It was out
of the abundance of his anguished heart that he added:

"The situation is agreeable to me for many reasons--but alas! it appears that nothing can now
give me pleasure--or the slightest gratification. Excuse me, my Dear Sir, if in this letter
you find much incoherency. My feelings at this moment are pitiable indeed. You will believe
me when I say that I am still miserable in spite of the great improvement in my circumstances;
for a man who is writing for effect does not write thus. My heart is open before you--if it
be worth reading, read it. I am wretched and know not why. Console me--for you can. Convince
me that it is worth one's while to live. Persuade me to do what is right. You will not fail
to see that I am suffering from a depression of spirits which will ruin me if it be long continued.
Write me then, and quickly. Urge me to do what is right. Your words will have more weight with
me than the words of others--for you were my friend when no one else was."

Some men of more goodness than wisdom might have read this letter with impatience--perhaps
disgust, and tossed it into the waste basket, not deeming it worth an answer, or pigeon-holed
it to be answered in a more convenient season--which would probably never have arrived. It
is easy to imagine the contempt with which John Allan would have perused it. Not so John Kennedy.
Busy lawyer and successful man of letters and of the world though he was, he had gone out of
his way to stretch a hand to the gifted starveling he had discovered struggling for a foothold
on the bottommost rung of the ladder of literary fame, and had not only helped him up the ladder
but had drawn him, in his weakness and his strength, into the circle of his friendship, and
now he had no idea of letting him go. Mr. Kennedy was a great lawyer with a great tenderness
for human nature, born of a great knowledge of it. He did not expect young men--even talented
ones--to be faultless or to be fountains of sound sense, or even always to be strong of will.
When he received Edgar Poe's wail he had just returned to his office after a long vacation
and found himself over head and ears in work; but he responded at once. If it had seemed to
him a foolish letter he did not say so. If it had shocked or disappointed him, he did not say
so. He wrote in the kindly tolerant and understanding tone he always took with his protegé
a letter wholesome and bracing as a breath from the salt sea.

"My dear Poe," he began, in his simple familiar way, "I am sorry to see you in such plight
as your letter shows you in. It is strange that just at the time when everybody is praising
you and when Fortune has begun to smile upon your hitherto wretched circumstances you should
be invaded by these villainous blue devils. It belongs however, to your age and temper to be
thus buffeted--but be assured it only wants a little resolution to master the adversary forever.
Rise early, live generously, and make cheerful acquaintances and I have no doubt you will send
these misgivings of the heart all to the Devil. You will doubtless do well henceforth in literature
and add to your comforts as well as your reputation which it gives me great pleasure to tell
you is everywhere rising in popular esteem."

This and more he wrote, in kind, encouraging vein, and closed his letter with a friendly invitation:

"Write to me frequently, and believe me very truly

    "Yours,

    "JOHN P. KENNEDY."

The same post that brought Mr. Kennedy's letter brought The Dreamer other mail from Baltimore--brought
him letters from both Virginia and Mother Clemm.

They had an especial reason for writing, each said. They had news for him--news which was most
disturbing to them and they feared it would be to him.

Disturbing indeed, was the news the letters brought. It drove him into a rage and aroused him
into action which made him forget all of his late troubles.

Their Cousin Neilson and his wife, they wrote him, had not ceased to bring every argument they
could think of to bear upon Virginia to induce her to break her engagement and had finally
proposed that they should take her into their home, treat her as an own daughter or young sister,
providing for her all things needful and desirable for a young girl of her station, until her
eighteenth birthday, after which if she and Edgar had not changed their minds, they could be
married.

He dashed off and posted answers to the letters at once, making violent protest against a scheme
that seemed to him positively iniquitous and pleading with "Muddie" to keep Virginia for him.
But writing was not enough. He determined to answer in person.

A day or two later Virginia and her mother were in the act of discussing his letters, which
had just come, when the sitting-room door quietly opened, and there stood the man who was all
the world to them!

Virginia, with a scream of delight, was in his arms in a flash and began telling him, breathlessly,
what a fright she had been in for fear "Cousin Neilson" would take her away and she would never
see him again.

With a rising tide of tenderness for her and rage against their cousin, he kissed the trouble
from her eyes.

"Don't be afraid, sweetheart," he murmured, "He shall never take you from me. I have come back
to marry you!"

"To marry her?" exclaimed Mrs. Clemm. "At once, do you mean?"

"At once! Today or tomorrow--for I must be getting back to Richmond as soon as possible. Don't
you see, Muddie, that this is just a plot of Neilson's to separate us? He never cared for me--he
loves Virginia and is determined I shall not have her. But we'll outwit him! We'll be married
at once. We'll have to keep it secret at first--until I am able to provide a home for my little
wife and our dear mother in Richmond, but I will go away with peace of mind and leave her in
peace of mind, for once she is mine only death can come between us. We will keep it secret
dear," he added, with his lips on the dusky hair of the little maid who was still held fast
in his arms. "We will keep it secret, but if Neilson Poe becomes troublesome you will only
have to show him your marriage certificate."

Virginia joyfully agreed to this plan, while the widow, finding opposition useless, finally
consented too--and the impetuous lover was off post-haste for a license.

It was a unique little wedding which took place next day in Christ Church, when a beautiful,
dreamy looking youth, with intellectual brow and classic profile and a beautiful, dreamy-looking
maid, half his age, plighted their troth. The only attendant was Mother Clemm in her habitual
plain black dress and widow's cap, with floating cap-strings, sheer and snowy white. No music,
no flowers, no witnesses even, save the widowed mother and the aged sexton who was bound over
to strict secrecy.

But in the dim, still, empty church the beautiful words of the old, old rite seemed to this
strange pair of lovers to take on new solemnity as they fell from the lips of the white robed
priest and sank deep into their young hearts, filling and thrilling them with fresh hope and
faith and love and high resolve.

CHAPTER XXII.

In the following spring Edgar Poe and Virginia Clemm were, strange as it may seem, principals
in another wedding. The months intervening between the two ceremonies had been teeming with
interest to them both--filled with work and with happiness just short of that perfect satisfaction--that
completeness--that unattainable which it is part of being a mortal with an immortal mind and
soul to be continually striving after, and missing, and will be until the half-light of this
world is merged into the light ineffable of the one to come.

The Dreamer had returned from his brief visit to Baltimore a new man. The blue devils were
gone. The heart and mind which they had made their dwelling-place were swept clean of every
vestige of them and were filled to overflowing with a sweet and rare presence--the presence
of her who lived with no other thought than to love and be loved by him; for he felt that her
spirit was with him at every moment of the day, though her fair body was other whither. The
consciousness of the secret he carried in his heart flooded his nature with sunshine. Because
of it he carried his head more proudly--wore a new dignity which his friends attributed entirely
to the success of his work upon the magazine. He was filled with peace and good will to all
the world. He was happy and wanted everybody else to be happy--it was apparent in himself and
in his work. In his dreamy moods his fancy spread a broader, a stronger wing, and soared with
new daring to heights unexplored before. When Edgar Goodfellow was in the ascendency he threw
himself with unwonted zest into the pleasures that were "like poppies spread" in the way of
the successful author and editor--the literary lion of the town.

He had always been an enthusiastic and graceful dancer and now nothing else seemed to give
him so natural a vent for the happiness that was beating in his veins. His feet seemed like
his pen, to be inspired. He felt that he could dance till Doomsday and all the prettiest, most
bewitching girls let him see how pleased they were to have him for a partner. In the brief,
glowing rests between the dances he rewarded them with charming talk, and verses in praise
of their loveliness which seemed to fall without the slightest effort from his tongue into
their pretty, delighted ears or from his pencil into their albums.

There was at least one fair damsel--a slight, willowy creature with violet eyes and flaxen
ringlets, who treasured the graceful lines he dedicated to her with a feeling warmer than friendship.
She was pretty Eliza White, the daughter of his employer, the owner of the Southern Literary
Messenger. She was herself a lover of poetry and romance, and a dreamer of dreams, all of which
had erelong merged into one sweet dream so secret, so sacred that she scarce dared own it to
her own inner self, and its central figure was her father's handsome assistant editor, who
rested in blissful ignorance of the havoc he was making in her maiden heart, engrossed as he
was in his own secret--his own romance.

New energy, new zest, new life seemed to have entered his blood. He had endless capacity for
work as well as for pleasure and could write all day and dance half the night and then lie
awake star-gazing the other half and rise ready and eager for the day's work in the morning.
Such a tonic--such a stimulant did his love for his faraway bride and his consciousness of
her love for him prove.

He was happy--very, very happy, but he desired to be happier still. The simple, beautiful words
of the old, old rite uttered in the dim, empty church had woven an invisible bond between him
and the maiden whom he loved to call in his heart his wife though the time when he could claim
her before the world was not yet.

The miracle that this bond wrought in him was a revelation to him. Was the priest a wizard?
Did the words of the ancient rite possess any intrinsic power of enchantment undreamed of by
the uninitiated?

He had not believed it possible for mortal to love more wholly--more madly than he had loved
the little Virginia before that sacred ceremony, but after it he knew there were heights of
love of which he had not hitherto had a glimpse. Just the right to say to his heart "She is
my own--my wife--" made her tenfold more precious than she had ever been before, but it also
made the separation tenfold harder to bear--made it beyond his power to bear!

The Valley of the Many-Colored Grass had been dissolved--the spell that had brought it into
being broken, by the separation, and he longed with a longing that was as hunger and thirst
to reconstruct this magical world in which he and his Virginia dwelt apart with her who was
mother to them both, in Richmond. And so, poor as he was, he arranged to bring Virginia and
Mother Clemm to Richmond and establish them in a boarding house where he could see them often
and wait with better grace the still happier day of making his marriage public.

The day came more speedily than they had let themselves hope. The popularity of the Messenger
and the fame of its assistant editor had grown with leaps and bounds. The new year brought
the welcome gift of promotion to full editorship, with an increase of salary. With the opening
spring began plans for the divulging of the great secret--for public acknowledgment of the
marriage. But how was it to be done?--That was the question! Edgar Poe knew too well the disapproval
with which the world regarded secret marriages--with which he himself regarded them, ordinarily.
His sense of refinement of fitness, of the sacredness of the marriage tie, revolted from the
very idea.

In what fashion then, could he and his little bride proclaim their secret that would not do
violence to their own taste or set a buzz of gossip going? That the horrid lips of gossip should
so much as breathe the name of his Virginia--that Mrs. Grundy should dare shrug her decorous
shoulders, if ever so slightly, at mention of that sacred name--. The bare suggestion was intolerable!

At last a solution offered itself to his mind. Not for an instant did he regret the sacred
ceremony in Christ Church, Baltimore. Not for worlds would he have cut short for one moment
of time the duration of the beautiful spiritual marriage when he had been able to say to himself:
"She whose presence fills my heart and my life--whose spirit I can feel near me at my work,
in my hours of recreation and in my dreams, is my wife." But of this exquisite, this inexpressibly
dear union the world was in utter ignorance. It was known only to the Mother, the priest and
the aged sexton. To these witnesses always, as to themselves, their marriage would date from
the moment when the blessing was invoked above their bowed heads in Christ Church, but to the
world--why not let it date from the day in which they would claim each other before the world,
in Richmond?

The thing was most simple! A second ceremony in the presence of a few friends--a brief announcement
in next day's paper--and their life would be begun with the dignity, the prestige, of public
marriage.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sixteenth of May was the day chosen for the event which was more like a wedding in Arcady
than in latter-day society. As at the secret ceremony, the customary preparations for a wedding
were conspicuously absent; yet was not the whole town gala with sunshine and verdure and May-bloom
and bird-song?

Edgar Poe looked every inch a bridegroom as, with his girl-wife upon his arm, he stepped forth
from Mrs. Yarrington's boarding-house, opposite the green slopes of Capitol Square. A bridegroom
indeed!--plainly, but perfectly apparelled--handsome, proud, fearless--his great eyes luminous
with solemn joy.

The simplest of white frocks became Virginia's innocence and beauty more than costly bridal
array and the nosegay of white violets above her chaste bosom was her only ornament.

With this sweet pair came the happy mother and a little train of close friends. It was late
afternoon. The sunshine was mellow and the air was filled with the delicious insense which
in mid-May the majestic paulonia tree drops from its purple bells and which is the very breath
of the warm-natured South.

No line of carriages stood at the door. No awning shut the picture they made from admiring
eyes, but happily the little party chatted together as they strolled under over-arching greenery
to the corner of Main and Seventh Streets, where in the prim parlor of the Presbyterian minister,
the words were pronounced which told the world that Edgar Poe and Virginia Clemm were one.

Upon the return of the party to Mrs. Yarrington's, a cake was cut, the health and happiness
of the bride and groom were drunk in wine of "Muddie's" own make, and the modest festival was over.

       *       *       *       *       *

How happy the young lovers and dreamers were in their home-making! Their housekeeping and furnishings
were the simplest, but love made everything beautiful and sufficient. They had a garden in
which they planted all their favorite flowers and to which came the birds--the birds with whom
they had discovered a sudden kinship, for they too, were nesting--and filled it with music.
And they sang and chatted as happily as the birds themselves as the pretty business progressed.

How delightful it was to receive their friends, together, in their own home and at their own
board--Eddie's old friends, especially. Rob Stanard, now a prosperous lawyer, and Rob Sully
whose reputation as an artist was growing, were the first to call and present their compliments
to the bride and groom; and how cordial they were! How affectionate to Eddie--how warm in their
expressions of friendship for the girl-wife!

Virginia found it the greatest fun imaginable to go to market with "Muddie," with a basket
hanging from her pretty arm. The market men and women began to daily watch for the sweet face
and tripping step of the exquisite child whom it seemed so comical to address as "Mrs. Poe,"
and who rewarded their open admiration with the loveliest smile, the prettiest words of greeting
and interest, the merriest rippling laugh that rang through the market place and waked echoes
in many a heart that had believed itself a stranger to joy.

And the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass was reconstructed in even more than its old beauty.
The flowers of love and contentment and innocent pleasure that besprinkled its green carpet
had never been so many or so gay, the dream-mountains that shut it in from the rest of the
world were as fair as sunset clouds, and the peace that flowed through it as a river broke
into singing as it flowed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meantime Edgar Poe worked--and worked--and worked.

Every number of the Messenger contained page after page of the brilliantly conceived and artistically
worded product of his brain and pen. His heart--his imagination satisfied and at rest in the
love and comradeship of a woman who fulfilled his ideal of beauty, of character, and of charm,
whose mind he himself had taught and trained to appreciate and to love the things that meant
most to him, whose sympathy responded to his every mood, whose voice soothed his tired nerves
with the music that was one of the necessities of his temperament, a woman, withal, who lived
with no other thought than to love and be loved by him--his harassing devils cast out by this
true heartsease, Edgar Poe's industry and his power of mental production were almost past belief.

As he worked a dream that had long been half-formed in his brain took definite shape and became
the moving influence of the intellectual side of his life. His literary conscience had always
been strict--even exacting--with him, making him push the quest for the right word in which
to express his idea--just the right word, no other--to its farthest limit. Urged by this conscience,
he could rarely ever feel that his work was finished, but kept revising, polishing and republishing
it in improved form, even after it had been once given to the world. He had in his youth contemplated
serving his country as a soldier. He now began to dream of serving her as a captain of literature,
as it were--as a defender of purity of style; for this dream which became the most serious
purpose of his life was of raising the standard of American letters to the ideal perfection
after which he strove in his own writings.

For his campaign a trusty weapon was at hand in the editorial department of the Southern Literary
Messenger, which he turned into a sword of fearless, merciless criticism.

Literary criticism (so called) in America had been hitherto mere puffery--puffery for the most
part of weak, prolix, commonplace scribblings of little would-be authors and poets. A reformation
in criticism, therefore, Edgar Poe conceived to be the only remedy for the prevalent mediocrity
in writing that was vitiating the taste of the day, the only hope of placing American literature
upon a footing of equality with that of England--in a word, for bringing about anything approaching
the perfection of which he dreamed.

The new kind of criticism to which he introduced his readers created a sensation by reason
of its very novelty. His brilliant, but withering critiques were more eagerly looked for than
the most thrilling of his stories, and though the little, namby-pamby authors whom the gleaming
sword mowed down by tens were his and the Messenger's enemies for life, the interested readers
that were gathered in by hundreds were loud in their praise of the progressiveness of the magazine
and the genius of the man who was making it.

In the North as well as the South the name of Edgar Poe was now on many lips and serious attention
began to be paid to the opinion of the Southern Literary Messenger.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Between his literary work, his home and his social life in Richmond, it would seem that every
need of The Dreamer's being was now satisfied and the days of his life were moving in perfect
harmony. But "the little rift within the lute" all too soon made its appearance. It was caused
by the alarm of Mr. White, the owner and founder of the Messenger.

"Little Tom White" was a most admirable man--within his limitations. If he was not especially
interesting, his daughter Eliza of the violet eyes was, and he was reliable--which was better.
He had a kind little heart and a clear little business head and his advice upon all matters
(within his experience) was safe. Though he saw from the handsome increase in the number of
the Messenger's subscribers that his young editor was a valuable aid, he did not realize how
valuable. Indeed, Edgar Poe and his style of writing were entirely outside of Mr. White's experience.
They were so altogether unlike anything he had known before that in spite of the praise of
the thousands of readers which they had brought to the magazine the dissatisfaction of the
tens of little namby-pamby authors alarmed him. Edgar Poe found him one morning in a state
of positive trepidation. He sat at his desk in the Messenger office with the morning's mail--an
unusually large pile of it--before him. In it there were a number of new subscriptions, several
letters from the little authors protesting against the manner in which their works were handled
in the review columns of the magazine and one or two from well-known and highly respected country
gentlemen expressing their disapproval of the strangeness in Edgar Poe's tales and poems.

Mr. White appreciated the genius of his editor--within his limitations--but he was afraid of
it and these letters made him more afraid of it. He saw that he must speak to Edgar--add his
protest to the protests of the little authors and the country gentlemen and see if he could
not persuade him to tone down the sharpness of his criticisms and the strangeness of his stories.

It was with a feeling of relief that he saw the trim, black-clad figure of the young editor
and author at the door, for he would like to settle the business before him at once. His manner
was grave--solemn--as he approached the subject upon which his employe must be spoken to.

"Edgar," he said, when good-mornings had been exchanged, "I want you to read these letters.
They are in the same line as some others we have been receiving lately--but more so--decidedly
more so."

"Ah?" said The Dreamer, as he seated himself at the desk and began to unfold and glance over
the letters.

"Little Tom" watched his face with a feeling of wonder at the look of mixed scorn and amusement
that appeared in the expressive eyes and mouth as he read. Finally the anxious little man laid
his hand upon the arm of his unruly assistant, with an air of kindly patronage.

"You have talent, Edgar," he said, with a touch of condescension, "Good talent--especially
for criticism--and will some day make your mark in that line if you will stick to it and let
these weird stories alone. We must have fewer of the stories in future and more critiques,
but milder ones. It is the critiques that the readers want; but in both stories and critiques
you must put a restraint on that pen of yours, Edgar. In the stories less of the weird--the
strange--in the critiques, less of the satirical. Let moderation be your watchword, my boy.
Cultivate moderation in your writing, and with your endowment you will make a name for yourself
as well as the magazine."

Edgar Poe was all attention--respectful attention that was most encouraging--while Mr. White
was speaking, and when he had finished sat with a contemplative look in his eyes, as if weighing
the words he had just heard. Presently he looked up and with the expression of face and voice
of one who in all seriousness seeks information, asked,

"Is moderation really the word you are after, Mr. White, or is it mediocrity?"

The announcement at the very moment when the question was put, of a visitor--a welcome one,
for he brought a new subscription--precluded a reply, and in the busy day that followed the
broken thread of conversation was never taken up again. But the unanswered question left Mr.
White with a confused sense which stayed with him during the whole day and at intervals all
through it he was asking himself what Edgar Poe meant. Truly his talented employe was a puzzling
fellow! Could it be possible that the question asked with that serious face, that quiet respectful
air, was intended for a joke? That the impudent fellow could have been quizzing him? No wonder
his stories gave people shivers--there was at times something about the fellow himself which
was positively uncanny!

That he and "little Tom" would always see opposite sides of the picture became more and more
apparent to The Dreamer as time went on and along with this difficulty another and a more serious
one arose.

Though the amount of work--of successful work, for it brought the Messenger a steadily increasing
stream of new subscribers--which he was now putting forth, should have surrounded the beloved
wife and mother with luxuries and placed him beyond the reach of financial embarrassment, the
returns he received from the entire fruitage of his brilliant talent--his untiring pen--at
this the prime-time of his life--in the fullness of mental and physical vigour, was so small
that he was constantly harrassed by debt and frequently reduced to the humiliating necessity
of borrowing from his friends to make two ends meet.

The plain truth was gradually borne in upon him--the prizes of fame and wealth that for the
sake of his sweet bride he coveted more earnestly than ever before, were not to be found, by
him, in Richmond, or as an employe of Mr. White. But the hues of the bow of promise with which
hope spanned the sky of his inward vision were still bright, and he believed that at its end
the coveted prizes would surely still be found--provided he did not lose heart and give up
the quest. Indications of the growth of his reputation at the North had been many. In the North
the facilities for publishing were so much more abundant than in the South. The publishing
houses and the periodicals of New York, of Boston, and of Philadelphia would create a demand
for literary work--and from these large cities his message to the world would go out with greater
authority than from a small town like Richmond.

It was not until the year 1838 that he finally resolved to make the break and sent in his resignation
to the Messenger. In the three years since his first appearance in its columns the number of
names upon its subscription list had increased from seven hundred to five thousand.

Though Edgar Poe's connection with the magazine as editor was at an end, Mr. White took pains
to announce that he was to continue to be a regular contributor and the appearance of his serial
story, "Arthur Gordon Pym," then running, was to be uninterrupted.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a far cry from the gardens and porches and open houses of Richmond to the streets of
New York--from the easy going country town where society held but one circle, to a city, with
its locked doors and its wheels within wheels. Indeed, the single circle in Richmond, bound
together as it was by the elastic, but secure, tie of Virginia cousinship and neighborliness
then regarded as almost the same thing as relationship, was practically one big family. Whoever
was not your cousin or your neighbor was the next best thing--either your neighbor's cousin
or your cousin's neighbor--so there you were.

Though Edgar and Virginia Poe and the Widow Clemm had no blood kin in Richmond they were, during
those two years' residence there, taken into the very heart of this pleasant, kindly circle,
and it was with keen homesickness that they realized that "in a whole cityful friends they
had none."

But if this trio of dreamers felt strangely out of place in the streets of New York, they looked
more so. As they sauntered along, in their leisurely southern fashion, their picturesque appearance
arrested the gaze of many a hurrying passer-by. In contrast to the up-to-date, alert, keen-eyed
crowd upon the busy streets, the air of distinction which marked them everywhere was more pronounced
than ever. They gave the impression of a certain exquisite fineness of quality, combined with
quaintness, that one is sensible of in looking upon rare china.

In and out--in and out--among the crowds of these streets where being a stranger he felt himself
peculiarly alone, Edgar the Dreamer walked many days in his quest for work. Here, there and
everywhere, his pale face and solemn eyes with less and less of hope in them were seen. He
had been right in believing that his reputation was growing and had reached New York--yet no
one wanted his work. The supply of literature exceeded the demand, he was told everywhere.
It is true that he succeeded in placing an occasional article, for which he would be paid the
merest pittance. Man should not expect to live by writing alone, he found to be the general
opinion--he should have a business or profession and do his scribbling in the left-over hours.

Still, his appearance at the door of a newspaper, magazine or book publisher's office, accompanied
by the announcement of his name, brought him respect and a polite hearing--if that could afford
any satisfaction to a man whose darling wife was growing wan from insufficient food.

One devoted friend he and his family made in Mr. Gowans, a Scotchman and a book-collector of
means and cultivation, whose fancy for them went so far as to induce him to become a member
of the unique little family in the dingy wooden shanty which they had succeeded in renting
for a song. To this old gentleman, who had the reputation of being something of a crank, The
Dreamer's conversation and Virginia's beauty and exquisite singing were never-failing wells
of delight, while the generous sum that he paid for the privilege of sharing their home was
an equal benefit to them and went a long way toward supplying the simple table. The little
checks which "little Tom" White sent for the monthly instalments of "Arthur Gordon Pym," upon
which his ex-editor industriously worked, were also most welcome. But with all they could scrape
together the income was insufficient to keep three souls within three bodies, and three bodies
decently covered.

Before the year in New York was out the rainbow was pale in the sky--its colors were faded
and its end was invisible--obscured by lowering clouds. At the moment when it seemed faintest
it came out clear again--this time setting toward Philadelphia, whose name the hope that rarely
left him for long at a time whispered in The Dreamer's ear.

