When it was decided that Charles Edward should throw himself on the loyalty of the Clans, and
intimation was given of the whole scheme, Lord George Murray prepared for action. The landing
of the Prince, the erection of a standard at Glenfinnin, the march through Lochiel, and the
encampment between Glengarry and Fort Augustus, were events which he did not personally aid
by his presence. He was, indeed, busily employed in assembling his father's tenantry; and it
was not until the Prince arrived at Perth that Lord George Murray was presented to him; he
was almost immediately created a Lieutenant-General in the Prince's service. His power in the
Highlands was, indeed, of a far greater extent than that military rank would seem to imply;
for, although the Marquis of Tullibardine was the nominal commander in the North, to Lord George
Murray was entrusted the actual management of affairs; an arrangement with which the modest
and conscientious Tullibardine willingly complied.

The character of Lord George might be considered as partly sobered by time; since, at the commencement
of the Rebellion of 1745, he was forty years of age. He was in the full vigour, therefore,
of his great natural and intellectual powers, which, when at that period of life they have
been ripened by exercise and experience, are perhaps at their zenith. The person of Lord George
was tall and robust; he had the self-denial and energy of his countrymen. He slept little,
and entered into every description of detail; he was persevering in everything which he undertook;
he was vigilant, active, and diligent. To these qualities he united a natural genius for military
operations; and his powers were such, that it was justly thought, that, had he been well instructed
in military tactics, he would have formed one of the ablest generals of the day. As it was,
the retreat from Derby, ill-advised as it may be deemed, is said to have sufficiently manifested
his skill as a commander.

In addition to these attributes, Lord George was brave to the highest degree; and, in all engagements,
was always the first to rush sword in hand into danger. As he advanced to the charge, and looked
round upon the Highlanders, whose character he well understood, it was his practice to say,
"I do not ask you, my lads, to go before; but only to follow me."[26] It cannot be a matter
of surprise, that, with this bold and resolute spirit, Lord George was the darling of the Highland
soldiers; and that his strong influence over their minds should have enabled him to obviate,
in some measure, the deficiencies of discipline. "Taking them," as a contemporary writer asserts,
"merely as they came from the plough, he made them perform prodigies of valour against English
armies, always greatly superior in number to that of the Prince Charles Edward, although the
English troops are allowed to be the best in Europe." Thus endowed, Lord George Murray showed
how feeble are the advantages of birth, compared with those of nature's gift. In rank, if not
in family connections, and in an hereditary hold upon the affections of his countrymen, the
Duke of Perth might be esteemed superior; but, brave and honourable as he was, that amiable
nobleman could never obtain the confidence of the army as a general. It is not, however, to
be supposed that any commander would ever have obtained an influence over a Highland army,
if he had not added high birth to his other requisites. The Clansmen were especially aristocratic
in their notions; and the names which they had honoured and loved from their birth, were alone
those to which they would eagerly respond.

To counterbalance the fine, soldierly characteristics which graced the lofty and heroic Lord
George Murray, some defects, of too stern a nature to be called weaknesses, but yet indicative
of narrowness of mind, clouded his excellent qualities. Unlike most great men, he was not open
to conviction. That noble candour, which can bear counsels, or receive even admonition with
gratitude, was not a part of his haughty nature. A sense of superiority over every human being
rendered him impatient of the slightest controul, and greedy of exclusive power. He was imperious
and determined; and was deficient in the courtesy which forms, combined with honesty, so fine
an attribute in a soldier's bearing. "He wanted," says one who knew him well, "the sole ordering
of everything."[27]

At Perth, Lord George Murray met with the famous Chevalier Johnstone, whom he soon adopted
into his service. This young soldier, whose pen has supplied memoirs of the Rebellion of 1745,
and upon whose statements much of the reported merits of Lord George Murray rests, was the
only son of a merchant in Edinburgh, and the descendant of an ancient and well-connected family.
By the marriage of his sister he was nearly related to the House of Rollo; and, from these
and other circumstances, he mingled with the best society in his native city.

Having been educated in Jacobite and Episcopalian principles, young Johnstone hailed with delight
the arrival of Prince Charles: he resolved instantly to join his standard. Escaping from Edinburgh,
he hastened to Duncrub, the seat of Lord Rollo, near Perth. Here he awaited the arrival of
the young Chevalier; and here he was introduced by his cousins, the daughters of Lord Rollo,
to the Duke of Perth and to Lord George Murray. The Chevalier Johnstone was one of the first
Low-countrymen that joined the standard of Charles Edward.

Lord George Murray very soon discovered that the requisites for forming a good soldier and
an active partizan were centred in young Johnstone. For the former he was qualified by an open
and impetuous character, generally combined with a desperate courage. The jollity and licence
of the Cavalier school, which characterized Johnstone, did not materially detract from, but
added rather to the popularity of his character. As a partizan, he has proved his zeal by his
Memoirs, which afford a sample of much heat and prejudice, and which have, in upholding Lord
George Murray, done an injury to the memory of Charles Edward, of which the adversaries of
his cause have not failed to take advantage. To many errors of character, and to some egotism,
the Chevalier Johnstone, as he came to be called in after-life, united a kind heart and an
enthusiastic disposition. He acted for a considerable time as aide-de-camp to Lord George Murray,
and afterwards in the same capacity with the Prince. But his liveliest admiration appears to
have been directed towards the general who has been classed with Montrose and Dundee,[28] and
no subsequent service under other masters ever effaced his impression of respect and confidence
to Lord George Murray. After the battle of Preston-Pans Johnstone received a captain's commission
from the Prince: and, exhausted with his duties as aide-de-camp, he formed a company, with
which he joined the Duke of Perth's regiment. His history, mingled up as it is with that of
the General under whom he first served, must necessarily be incorporated with the following
narrative.

Lord George Murray continued, for some time, busily engaged in rallying around him his brother's
vassals. The Duke of Atholl is partly proprietor, partly superior, of the country which bears
his name. That region is inhabited by Stuarts and Robinsons, none of the Duke's name living
upon his estates. Of these, several have fiefs or mortgages of the Atholl family, and command
the common people of their respective Clans; but, like other Highlanders, they believe that
they are bound to rise in arms when the chief of their whole Clan requires it. The vassals
on the Atholl territory were well-affected to the Stuarts, great pains having been taken by
the father of Lord George Murray, notwithstanding his efforts to appear loyal to the Government,
to infuse the spirit of Jacobitism among them.[29]

Of the events which succeeded his joining the Prince's standard at Perth, until the commencement
of the retreat from Derby, Lord George Murray has left a succinct relation. It is written,
as are his letters, in a plain, free, manly style, which dispels all doubt as to the sincerity
of the narrator.

"I joined the standard at Perth,"[30] he begins, "the day his Royal Highness arrived there.
As I had formerly known something of a Highland army, the first thing I did was to advise the
Prince to endeavour to get proper people for provisors and commissaries, for otherwise there
would be no keeping the men together, and they would straggle through the whole country upon
their marches if it was left to themselves to find provisions; which, beside the inconveniency
of irregular marches, and much time lost, great abuses would be committed, which, above all
things, we were to avoid. I got many of the men to make small knapsacks of sacking before we
left Perth, to carry a peck of meal each upon occasion; and I caused take as many threepenny
loaves there as would be three days' bread to our small army, which was carried in carts. I
sent about a thousand of these knapsacks to Crieff, to meet the men who were coming from Atholl."

The difficulties which Lord George encountered were, it is evident, considerable. Upon the
arrival of Charles Edward at Perth, his army amounted only to two thousand men,[31] until he
was joined by Lord George Murray, by the Duke of Perth, and by Lord Nairn, and other persons
of distinction.[32] There were few persons in that army who were capable, by being versed in
military affairs, of giving Lord George Murray any advice or assistance. The Highland chiefs
possessed the most heroic courage; but they knew no other manoeuvre but that of rushing, sword
in hand, upon an enemy. The Irish officers were equally deficient in experience and knowledge;
and, with the exception of Mr. Sullivan, are stated "to have had no more knowledge than the
whole stock of subalterns, namely, the knowing how to mount and quit guard." Such is the description
given of the collected forces by Johnstone. But, although not trained as regular soldiers,
and accustomed chiefly to the care of herds of black cattle, whom they wandered after in the
mountains, the Highlanders had a discipline of their own. Their chiefs usually kept about them
several retainers experienced in the use of arms; and a meeting of two or three gentlemen was
sure to bring together a little army, for the habits of the clansmen were essentially military.
It was, some considered, a circumstance favourable to Lord George Murray, that, being unprepared
by an early military education, he was unfettered by its formal rules, and therefore was more
calculated to lead an undisciplined army of Highlanders, whose native energies he knew how
to direct better than a skilful tactician would have ventured to do.[33] During his stay at
Perth, the Highlanders, so prone to irregularities when not in active service, were tranquil
under the strictest military rule.[34]

It was here, however, that the first seeds of dissension were sown between Charles Edward and
Lord George. Sir Thomas Sheridan, the tutor of the Prince, who was allowed to "have lived and
died a man of honour," but who was manifestly incapable of the great charge intrusted to him,
both in the education of the young Princes and as their adviser in after-life, added to his
other deficiencies a total ignorance of the British constitution and habits of thinking. The
Prince, of course, was equally ill-informed. They were therefore in the practice, in conversation,
of espousing sentiments of arbitrary power, which were equally impolitic and unbecoming. Sincere
and shrewd, Lord George Murray lost no time in expressing to Charles Edward his decided disapproval
of this tone of discourse. His motives in these expostulations were excellent, but his overbearing
manner nullified all the good that might have been effected. He offended the Prince, who repressed
indeed his secret indignation, but whose pride, fostered by circumstances, could ill brook
the assumption of his General.[35]

It was not until the Prince reached Edinburgh that a regular Council was formed; consisting
of the Duke of Perth, Lord George Murray, Lord Elcho, Secretary Murray, Sir Thomas Sheridan,
and Mr. Sullivan, the Highland chiefs, and afterwards of all the colonels in the army. But,
among the advisers of the Prince, an "ill-timed emulation," as Mr. Maxwell calls it, now crept
in, and bred great dissension and animosities. "The dissensions," he states, "began at Edinburgh:"
according to Sir Walter Scott, they had an earlier origin, and originated at Perth.

They were aggravated, as in the Council at Perth in the time of Lord Mar, by the base passions
of an individual. Detesting the weak and crooked policy of Mar and viewing from his calm position
as an inferior actor, with a fiendish pleasure, the embarrassments and mistakes of him whom
he hated, stood the Master of Sinclair. Blinded by a selfish jealousy of power over the mind
of him whom he afterwards betrayed to the ruin which he was working, and "aiming at nothing
less than the sole direction and management of everything, the Secretary Murray sacrificed
to this evil passion, this thirst for ascendancy, all the hopes of prosperity to Charles Edward--all
present peace to the harassed and perplexed young man whom his counsels had brought to Scotland.
It was he," strongly, and perhaps bitterly, writes Mr. Maxwell, "that had engaged the Prince
to make this attempt upon so slight a foundation, and the wonderful success that had hitherto
attended it was placed to his account."

By some the sincerity of Murray's loyalty and good-faith were even credited. The Duke of Perth,
among a few others, judged of Murray's heart by his own, went readily into all his schemes,
and confirmed the Prince in the opinion which he had imbibed of his favourite. After Kelly
had left the Prince, Murray contrived to gain over Sullivan and Sir Thomas Sheridan, and by
that means effectually governed Charles Edward. The fearless, lofty, honest character of Lord
George Murray alone offered an obstacle to the efforts of the Secretary to obtain, for his
own purposes, an entire controul; he cherished towards the General that aversion which a mean
and servile nature ever feels to one whose dealings are free from fraud or deceit. He also
feared him as a rival, and it became his aim to undermine him, and to lay a plot for the chief
stay and prop of the undertaking. It was naturally to be supposed that Lord George Murray's
age, his high birth, his experience and influence, and his great capacity, would have given
him an advantage over his dastardly rival, and have gained the first consideration with the
Prince. But Murray of Broughton, unhappily, had acquired an early influence over the credulous
mind of the young adventurer. His acquaintance beneath the roof of the Santi Apostoli had secured
an unhappy confidence in his fidelity and worth. He shortly took advantage of the sentiments
which ought to have ensured the nicest honour, the most scrupulous truth, in return, to deceive
and to mislead his young master.[36]

Unfortunately there was one point upon which the honour of Lord George Murray was to be suspected.
He "was said" to have solicited a commission in the English army.[37] Upon this supposed early
defection of Lord George to the Hanoverian party, Murray grounded his accusations.

