I cannot describe at length the whole of our journey from thence to our tents at Jericho, nor
back to Jerusalem, nor even from Jerusalem to Jaffa.  At Jericho we did sleep in tents, paying
so much per night, according to the tariff.  We wandered out at night, and drank coffee with
a family of Arabs in the desert, sitting in a ring round their coffee-kettle.  And we saw a
Turkish soldier punished with the bastinado,--a sight which did not do me any good, and which
made Smith very sick.  Indeed after the first blow he walked away. Jericho is a remarkable
spot in that pilgrim week, and I wish I had space to describe it.  But I have not, for I must
hurry on, back to Jerusalem and thence to Jaffa.  I had much to tell also of those Bedouins;
how they were essentially true to us, but teased us almost to frenzy by their continual begging.
They begged for our food and our drink, for our cigars and our gunpowder, for the clothes off
our backs, and the handkerchiefs out of our pockets.  As to gunpowder I had none to give them,
for my charges were all made up in cartridges; and I learned that the guns behind their backs
were a mere pretence, for they had not a grain of powder among them.

We slept one night in Jerusalem, and started early on the following morning.  Smith came to
my hotel so that we might be ready together for the move.  We still carried with us Joseph
and the mucherry-boy; but for our Bedouins, who had duly received their forty shillings a piece,
we had no further use.  On our road down to Jerusalem we had much chat together, but only one
adventure.  Those pilgrims, of whom I have spoken, journey to Jerusalem in the greatest number
by the route which we were now taking from it, and they come in long droves, reaching Jaffa
in crowds by the French and Austrian steamers from Smyrna, Damascus, and Constantinople.  As
their number confers security in that somewhat insecure country, many travellers from the west
of Europe make arrangements to travel with them.  On our way down we met the last of these
caravans for the year, and we were passing it for more than two hours.  On this occasion I
rode first, and Smith was immediately behind me; but of a sudden I observed him to wheel his
horse round, and to clamber downwards among bushes and stones towards a river that ran below
us.  "Hallo, Smith," I cried, "you will destroy your horse, and yourself too."  But he would
not answer me, and all I could do was to draw up in the path and wait. My confusion was made
the worse, as at that moment a long string of pilgrims was passing by.  "Good morning, sir,"
said an old man to me in good English.  I looked up as I answered him, and saw a grey- haired
gentleman, of very solemn and sad aspect.  He might be seventy years of age, and I could see
that he was attended by three or four servants.  I shall never forget the severe and sorrowful
expression of his eyes, over which his heavy eyebrows hung low. "Are there many English in
Jerusalem?" he asked.  "A good many," I replied; "there always are at Easter."  "Can you tell
me anything of any of them?" he asked.  "Not a word," said I, for I knew no one; "but our consul
can."  And then we bowed to each other and he passed on.

I got off my horse and scrambled down on foot after Smith.  I found him gathering berries and
bushes as though his very soul were mad with botany; but as I had seen nothing of this in him
before, I asked what strange freak had taken him.

"You were talking to that old man," he said.

"Well, yes, I was."

"That is the relation of whom I have spoken to you."

"The d- he is!"

"And I would avoid him, if it be possible."

I then learned that the old gentleman was his uncle.  He had no living father or mother, and
he now supposed that his relative was going to Jerusalem in quest of him.  "If so," said I,
"you will undoubtedly give him leg bail, unless the Austrian boat is more than ordinarily late.
It is as much as we shall do to catch it, and you may be half over Africa, or far gone on your
way to India, before he can be on your track again."

"I will tell you all about it at Alexandria," he replied; and then he scrambled up again with
his horse, and we went on.  That night we slept at the Armenian convent at Ramlath, or Ramath.
This place is supposed to stand on the site of Arimathea, and is marked as such in many of
the maps.  The monks at this time of the year are very busy, as the pilgrims all stay here
for one night on their routes backwards and forwards, and the place on such occasions is terribly
crowded.  On the night of our visit it was nearly empty, as a caravan had left it that morning;
and thus we were indulged with separate cells, a point on which my companion seemed to lay
considerable stress.

On the following day, at about noon, we entered Jaffa, and put up at an inn there which is
kept by a Pole.  The boat from Beyrout, which touches at Jaffa on its way to Alexandria, was
not yet in, nor even sighted; we were therefore amply in time.  "Shall we sail to-night?" I
asked of the agent.  "Yes, in all probability," he replied.  "If the signal be seen before
three we shall do so.  If not, then not;" and so I returned to the hotel.

Smith had involuntarily shown signs of fatigue during the journey, but yet he had borne up
well against it.  I had never felt called on to grant any extra indulgence as to time because
the work was too much for him.  But now he was a good deal knocked up, and I was a little frightened
fearing that I had over-driven him under the heat of the sun.  I was alarmed lest he should
have fever, and proposed to send for the Jaffa doctor.  But this he utterly refused.  He would
shut himself for an hour or two in his room, he said, and by that time he trusted the boat
would be in sight.  It was clear to me that he was very anxious on the subject, fearing that
his uncle would be back upon his heels before he had started.

I ordered a serious breakfast for myself, for with me, on such occasions, my appetite demands
more immediate attention than my limbs.  I also acknowledge that I become fatigued, and can
lay myself at length during such idle days and sleep from hour to hour; but the desire to do
so never comes till I have well eaten and drunken.  A bottle of French wine, three or four
cutlets of goats' flesh, an omelet made out of the freshest eggs, and an enormous dish of oranges,
was the banquet set before me; and though I might have found fault with it in Paris or London,
I thought that it did well enough in Jaffa.  My poor friend could not join me, but had a cup
of coffee in his room.  "At any rate take a little brandy in it," I said to him, as I stood
over his bed.  "I could not swallow it," said he, looking at me with almost beseeching eyes.
"Beshrew the fellow," I said to myself as I left him, carefully closing the door, so that the
sound should not shake him; "he is little better than a woman, and yet I have become as fond
of him as though he were my brother."

I went out at three, but up to that time the boat had not been signalled.  "And we shall not
get out to-night?"  "No, not to- night," said the agent.  "And what time to-morrow?"  "If she
comes in this evening, you will start by daylight.  But they so manage her departure from Beyrout,
that she seldom is here in the evening." "It will be noon to-morrow then?"  "Yes," the man
said, "noon to- morrow."  I calculated, however, that the old gentleman could not possibly
be on our track by that time.  He would not have reached Jerusalem till late in the day on
which we saw him, and it would take him some time to obtain tidings of his nephew.  But it
might be possible that messengers sent by him should reach Jaffa by four or five on the day
after his arrival.  That would be this very day which we were now wasting at Jaffa.  Having
thus made my calculations, I returned to Smith to give him such consolation as it might be
in my power to afford.

He seemed to be dreadfully afflicted by all this.  "He will have traced me to Jerusalem, and
then again away; and will follow me immediately."

"That is all very well," I said; "but let even a young man do the best he can, and he will
not get from Jerusalem to Jaffa in less than twelve hours.  Your uncle is not a young man,
and could not possibly do the journey under two days."

"But he will send.  He will not mind what money he spends."

"And if he does send, take off your hat to his messengers, and bid them carry your complaints
back.  You are not a felon whom he can arrest."

"No, he cannot arrest me; but, ah! you do not understand;" and then he sat up on the bed, and
seemed as though he were going to wring his hands in despair.

I waited for some half hour in his room, thinking that he would tell me this story of his.
If he required that I should give him my aid in the presence either of his uncle or of his
uncle's myrmidons, I must at any rate know what was likely to be the dispute between them.
But as he said nothing I suggested that he should stroll out with me among the orange-groves
by which the town is surrounded.  In answer to this he looked up piteously into my face as
though begging me to be merciful to him.  "You are strong," said he, "and cannot understand
what it is to feel fatigue as I do."  And yet he had declared on commencing his journey that
he would not be found to complain?  Nor had he complained by a single word till after that
encounter with his uncle.  Nay, he had borne up well till this news had reached us of the boat
being late.  I felt convinced that if the boat were at this moment lying in the harbour all
that appearance of excessive weakness would soon vanish.  What it was that he feared I could
not guess; but it was manifest to me that some great terror almost overwhelmed him.

"My idea is," said I, and I suppose that I spoke with something less of good-nature in my tone
than I had assumed for the last day or two, "that no man should, under any circumstances, be
so afraid of another man, as to tremble at his presence,--either at his presence or his expected
presence."

"Ah, now you are angry with me; now you despise me!"

"Neither the one nor the other.  But if I may take the liberty of a friend with you, I should
advise you to combat this feeling of horror.  If you do not, it will unman you.  After all,
what can your uncle do to you?  He cannot rob you of your heart and soul.  He cannot touch
your inner self."

"You do not know," he said.

"Ah but, Smith, I do know that.  Whatever may be this quarrel between you and him, you should
not tremble at the thought of him; unless indeed--"

"Unless what?"

"Unless you had done aught that should make you tremble before every honest man."  I own I
had begun to have my doubts of him, and to fear that he had absolutely disgraced himself. 
Even in such case I,--I individually,--did not wish to be severe on him; but I should be annoyed
to find that I had opened my heart to a swindler or a practised knave.

"I will tell you all to-morrow," said he; "but I have been guilty of nothing of that sort."

In the evening he did come out, and sat with me as I smoked my cigar.  The boat, he was told,
would almost undoubtedly come in by daybreak on the following morning, and be off at nine;
whereas it was very improbable that any arrival from Jerusalem would be so early as that. 
"Beside," I reminded him, "your uncle will hardly hurry down to Jaffa, because he will have
no reason to think but what you have already started.  There are no telegraphs here, you know."

In the evening he was still very sad, though the paroxysm of his terror seemed to have passed
away.  I would not bother him, as he had himself chosen the following morning for the telling
of his story.  So I sat and smoked, and talked to him about our past journey, and by degrees
the power of speech came back to him, and I again felt that I loved him!  Yes, loved him! 
I have not taken many such fancies into my head, at so short a notice; but I did love him,
as though he were a younger brother.  I felt a delight in serving him, and though I was almost
old enough to be his father, I ministered to him as though he had been an old man, or a woman.

On the following morning we were stirring at daybreak, and found that the vessel was in sight.
She would be in the roads off the town in two hours' time, they said, and would start at eleven
or twelve.  And then we walked round by the gate of the town, and sauntered a quarter of a
mile or so along the way that leads towards Jerusalem.  I could see that his eye was anxiously
turned down the road, but he said nothing.  We saw no cloud of dust, and then we returned to
breakfast.

"The steamer has come to anchor," said our dirty Polish host to us in execrable English.  "And
we may be off on board," said Smith. "Not yet," he said; "they must put their cargo out first."
I saw, however, that Smith was uneasy, and I made up my mind to go off to the vessel at once.
When they should see an English portmanteau making an offer to come up the gangway, the Austrian
sailors would not stop it.  So I called for the bill, and ordered that the things should be
taken down to the wretched broken heap of rotten timber which they called a quay.  Smith had
not told me his story, but no doubt he would as soon as he was on board.

I was in the act of squabbling with the Pole over the last demand for piastres, when we heard
a noise in the gateway of the inn, and I saw Smith's countenance become pale.  It was an Englishman's
voice asking if there were any strangers there; so I went into the courtyard, closing the door
behind me, and turning the key upon the landlord and Smith.  "Smith," said I to myself, "will
keep the Pole quiet if he have any wit left."

The man who had asked the question had the air of an upper English servant, and I thought that
I recognised one of those whom I had seen with the old gentleman on the road; but the matter
was soon put at rest by the appearance of that gentleman himself.  He walked up into the courtyard,
looked hard at me from under those bushy eyebrows, just raised his hat, and then--said, "I
believe I am speaking to Mr. Jones."

"Yes," said I, "I am Mr. Jones.  Can I have the honour of serving you?"

There was something peculiarly unpleasant about this man's face.  At the present moment I examined
it closely, and could understand the great aversion which his nephew felt towards him.  He
looked like a gentleman and like a man of talent, nor was there anything of meanness in his
face; neither was he ill-looking, in the usual acceptation of the word; but one could see that
he was solemn, austere, and overbearing; that he would be incapable of any light enjoyment,
and unforgiving towards all offences.  I took him to be a man who, being old himself, could
never remember that he had been young, and who, therefore, hated the levities of youth.  To
me such a character is specially odious; for I would fain, if it be possible, be young even
to my grave.  Smith, if he were clever, might escape from the window of the room, which opened
out upon a terrace, and still get down to the steamer.  I would keep the old man in play for
some time; and, even though I lost my passage, would be true to my friend.  There lay our joint
luggage at my feet in the yard.  If Smith would venture away without his portion of it, all
might yet be right.

"My name, sir, is Sir William Weston," he began.  I had heard of the name before, and knew
him to be a man of wealth, and family, and note.  I took off my hat, and said that I had much
honour in meeting Sir William Weston.

"And I presume you know the object with which I am now here," he continued.

"Not exactly," said I.  "Nor do I understand how I possibly should know it, seeing that, up
to this moment, I did not even know your name, and have heard nothing concerning either your
movements or your affairs."

"Sir," said he, "I have hitherto believed that I might at any rate expect from you the truth."

"Sir," said I, "I am bold to think that you will not dare to tell me, either now, or at any
other time, that you have received, or expect to receive, from me anything that is not true."

He then stood still, looking at me for a moment or two, and I beg to assert that I looked as
fully at him.  There was, at any rate, no cause why I should tremble before him.  I was not
his nephew, nor was I responsible for his nephew's doings towards him.  Two of his servants
were behind him, and on my side there stood a boy and girl belonging to the inn.  They, however,
could not understand a word of English.  I saw that he was hesitating, but at last he spoke
out.  I confess, now, that his words, when they were spoken, did, at the first moment, make
me tremble.

"I have to charge you," said he, "with eloping with my niece, and I demand of you to inform
me where she is.  You are perfectly aware that I am her guardian by law."

I did tremble;--not that I cared much for Sir William's guardianship, but I saw before me so
terrible an embarrassment!  And then I felt so thoroughly abashed in that I had allowed myself
to be so deceived!  It all came back upon me in a moment, and covered me with a shame that
even made me blush.  I had travelled through the desert with a woman for days, and had not
discovered her, though she had given me a thousand signs.  All those signs I remembered now,
and I blushed pain fully.  When her hand was on my forehead I still thought that she was a
man!  I declare that at this moment I felt a stronger disinclination to face my late companion
than I did to encounter her angry uncle.

"Your niece!" I said, speaking with a sheepish bewilderment which should have convinced him
at once of my innocence.  She had asked me, too, whether I was a married man, and I had denied
it.  How was I to escape from such a mess of misfortunes?  I declare that I began to forget
her troubles in my own.

"Yes, my niece,--Miss Julia Weston.  The disgrace which you have brought upon me must be wiped
out; but my first duty is to save that unfortunate young woman from further misery."

"If it be as you say," I exclaimed, "by the honour of a gentleman--"

"I care nothing for the honour of a gentleman till I see it proved. Be good enough to inform
me, sir, whether Miss Weston is in this house."

For a moment I hesitated; but I saw at once that I should make myself responsible for certain
mischief, of which I was at any rate hitherto in truth innocent, if I allowed myself to become
a party to concealing a young lady.  Up to this period I could at any rate defend myself, whether
my defence were believed or not believed.  I still had a hope that the charming Julia might
have escaped through the window, and a feeling that if she had done so I was not responsible.
When I turned the lock I turned it on Smith.

For a moment I hesitated, and then walked slowly across the yard and opened the door.  "Sir
William," I said, as I did so, "I travelled here with a companion dressed as a man; and I believed
him to be what he seemed till this minute."

"Sir!" said Sir William, with a look of scorn in his face which gave me the lie in my teeth
as plainly as any words could do.  And then he entered the room.  The Pole was standing in
one corner, apparently amazed at what was going on, and Smith,--I may as well call her Miss
Weston at once, for the baronet's statement was true,- -was sitting on a sort of divan in the
corner of the chamber hiding her face in her hands.  She had made no attempt at an escape,
and a full explanation was therefore indispensable.  For myself I own that I felt ashamed of
my part in the play,--ashamed even of my own innocency.  Had I been less innocent I should
certainly have contrived to appear much less guilty.  Had it occurred to me on the banks of
the Jordan that Smith was a lady, I should not have travelled with her in her gentleman's habiliments
from Jerusalem to Jaffa.  Had she consented to remain under my protection, she must have done
so without a masquerade.

The uncle stood still and looked at his niece.  He probably understood how thoroughly stern
and disagreeable was his own face, and considered that he could punish the crime of his relative
in no severer way than by looking at her.  In this I think he was right. But at last there
was a necessity for speaking.  "Unfortunate young woman!" he said, and then paused.

"We had better get rid of the landlord," I said, "before we come to any explanation."  And
I motioned to the man to leave the room. This he did very unwillingly, but at last he was gone.

"I fear that it is needless to care on her account who may hear the story of her shame," said
Sir William.  I looked at Miss Weston, but she still sat hiding her face.  However, if she
did not defend herself, it was necessary that I should defend both her and me.

"I do not know how far I may be at liberty to speak with reference to the private matters of
yourself or of your--your niece, Sir William Weston.  I would not willingly interfere--"

"Sir," said he, "your interference has already taken place.  Will you have the goodness to
explain to me what are your intentions with regard to that lady?"

My intentions!  Heaven help me!  My intentions, of course, were to leave her in her uncle's
hands.  Indeed, I could hardly be said to have formed any intention since I had learned that
I had been honoured by a lady's presence.  At this moment I deeply regretted that I had thoughtlessly
stated to her that I was an unmarried man. In doing so I had had no object.  But at that time
"Smith" had been quite a stranger to me, and I had not thought it necessary to declare my own
private concerns.  Since that I had talked so little of myself that the fact of my family at
home had not been mentioned. "Will you have the goodness to explain what are your intentions
with regard to that lady?" said the baronet.

"Oh, Uncle William!" exclaimed Miss Weston, now at length raising her head from her hands.

"Hold your peace, madam," said he.  "When called upon to speak, you will find your words with
difficulty enough.  Sir, I am waiting for an answer from you."

"But, uncle, he is nothing to me;--the gentleman is nothing to me!"

"By the heavens above us, he shall be something, or I will know the reason why!  What! he has
gone off with you; he has travelled through the country with you, hiding you from your only
natural friend; he has been your companion for weeks--"

"Six days, sir," said I.

"Sir!" said the baronet, again giving me the lie.  "And now," he continued, addressing his
niece, "you tell me that he is nothing to you.  He shall give me his promise that he will make
you his wife at the consulate at Alexandria, or I will destroy him.  I know who he is."

"If you know who I am," said I, "you must know--"

But he would not listen to me.  "And as for you, madam, unless he makes me that promise--"
And then he paused in his threat, and, turning round, looked me in the face.  I saw that she
also was looking at me, though not openly as he did; and some flattering devil that was at
work round my heart, would have persuaded that she also would have heard a certain answer given
without dismay,--would even have received comfort in her agony from such an answer.  But the
reader knows how completely that answer was out of my power.

"I have not the slightest ground for supposing," said I, "that the lady would accede to such
an arrangement,--if it were possible.  My acquaintance with her has been altogether confined
to--.  To tell the truth, I have not been in Miss Weston's confidence, and have only taken
her for that which she has seemed to be."

"Sir!" said the baronet, again looking at me as though he would wither me on the spot for my
falsehood.

"It is true!" said Julia, getting up from her seat, and appealing with clasped hands to her
uncle--"as true as Heaven."

"Madam!" said he, "do you both take me for a fool?"

"That you should take me for one," said I, "would be very natural. The facts are as we state
to you.  Miss Weston,--as I now learn that she is,--did me the honour of calling at my hotel,
having heard--" And then it seemed to me as though I were attempting to screen myself by telling
the story against her, so I was again silent. Never in my life had I been in a position of
such extraordinary difficulty.  The duty which I owed to Julia as a woman, and to Sir William
as a guardian, and to myself as the father of a family, all clashed with each other.  I was
anxious to be generous, honest, and prudent, but it was impossible; so I made up my mind to
say nothing further.

"Mr. Jones," said the baronet, "I have explained to you the only arrangement which under the
present circumstances I can permit to pass without open exposure and condign punishment.  That
you are a gentleman by birth, education, and position I am aware,"--whereupon I raised my hat,
and then he continued:  "That lady has three hundred a year of her own--"

"And attractions, personal and mental, which are worth ten times the money," said I, and I
bowed to my fair friend, who looked at me the while with sad beseeching eyes.  I confess that
the mistress of my bosom, had she known my thoughts at that one moment, might have had cause
for anger.

"Very well," continued he.  "Then the proposal which I name, cannot, I imagine, but be satisfactory.
If you will make to her and to me the only amends which it is in your power as a gentleman
to afford, I will forgive all.  Tell me that you will make her your wife on your arrival in Egypt."

I would have given anything not to have looked at Miss Weston at this moment, but I could not
help it.  I did turn my face half round to her before I answered, and then felt that I had
been cruel in doing so.  "Sir William," said I, "I have at home already a wife and family of
my own."

"It is not true!" said he, retreating a step, and staring at me with amazement.

"There is something, sir," I replied, "in the unprecedented circumstances of this meeting,
and in your position with regard to that lady, which, joined to your advanced age, will enable
me to regard that useless insult as unspoken.  I am a married man.  There is the signature
of my wife's last letter," and I handed him one which I had received as I was leaving Jerusalem.

But the coarse violent contradiction which Sir William had given me was nothing compared with
the reproach conveyed in Miss Weston's countenance.  She looked at me as though all her anger
were now turned against me.  And yet, methought, there was more of sorrow than of resentment
in her countenance.  But what cause was there for either?  Why should I be reproached, even
by her look?  She did not remember at the moment that when I answered her chance question as
to my domestic affairs, I had answered it as to a man who was a stranger to me, and not as
to a beautiful woman, with whom I was about to pass certain days in close and intimate society.
To her, at the moment, it seemed as though I had cruelly deceived her.  In truth, the one person
really deceived had been myself.

And here I must explain, on behalf of the lady, that when she first joined me she had no other
view than that of seeing the banks of the Jordan in that guise which she had chosen to assume,
in order to escape from the solemnity and austerity of a disagreeable relative. She had been
very foolish, and that was all.  I take it that she had first left her uncle at Constantinople,
but on this point I never got certain information.  Afterwards, while we were travelling together,
the idea had come upon her, that she might go on as far as Alexandria with me.  And then I
know nothing further of the lady's intentions, but I am certain that her wishes were good and
pure. Her uncle had been intolerable to her, and she had fled from him. Such had been her offence,
and no more.

"Then, sir," said the baronet, giving me back my letter, "you must be a double-dyed villain."

"And you, sir," said I -.  But here Julia Weston interrupted me.

"Uncle, you altogether wrong this gentleman," she said.  "He has been kind to me beyond my
power of words to express; but, till told by you, he knew nothing of my secret.  Nor would
he have known it," she added, looking down upon the ground.  As to that latter assertion, I
was at liberty to believe as much as I pleased.

The Pole now came to the door, informing us that any who wished to start by the packet must
go on board, and therefore, as the unreasonable old gentleman perceived, it was necessary that
we should all make our arrangements.  I cannot say that they were such as enable me to look
back on them with satisfaction.  He did seem now at last to believe that I had been an unconscious
agent in his niece's stratagem, but he hardly on that account became civil to me. "It was absolutely
necessary," he said, "that he and that unfortunate young woman," as he would call her, "should
depart at once,--by this ship now going."  To this proposition of course I made no opposition.
"And you, Mr. Jones," he continued, "will at once perceive that you, as a gentleman, should
allow us to proceed on our journey without the honour of your company."

This was very dreadful, but what could I say; or, indeed, what could I do?  My most earnest
desire in the matter was to save Miss Weston from annoyance; and under existing circumstances
my presence on board could not but be a burden to her.  And then, if I went,--if I did go,
in opposition to the wishes of the baronet, could I trust my own prudence?  It was better for
all parties that I should remain.

"Sir William," said I, after a minute's consideration, "if you will apologise to me for the
gross insults you have offered me, it shall be as you say."

"Mr. Jones," said Sir William, "I do apologise for the words which I used to you while I was
labouring under a very natural misconception of the circumstances."  I do not know that I was
much the better for the apology, but at the moment I regarded it sufficient.

Their things were then hurried down to the strand, and I accompanied them to the ruined quay.
I took off my hat to Sir William as he was first let down into the boat.  He descended first,
so that he might receive his niece,--for all Jaffa now knew that it was a lady,--and then I
gave her my hand for the last time.  "God bless you, Miss Weston," I said, pressing it closely.
"God bless you, Mr. Jones," she replied.  And from that day to this I have neither spoken to
her nor seen her.

I waited a fortnight at Jaffa for the French boat, eating cutlets of goat's flesh, and wandering
among the orange groves.  I certainly look back on that fortnight as the most miserable period
of my life. I had been deceived, and had failed to discover the deceit, even though the deceiver
had perhaps wished that I should do so.  For that blindness I have never forgiven myself.