BOHN'S STANDARD LIBRARY

THE PROSE WORKS

OF

JONATHAN SWIFT, D.D.

EDITED BY

TEMPLE SCOTT

WITH A BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION BY

THE RT. HON. W.E.H. LECKY, M.P.

VOL.

SWIFT'S

WRITINGS ON RELIGION

AND THE CHURCH

VOL. II

CONTENTS.

TRACTS ON THE SACRAMENTAL TEST:

A Letter Concerning the Sacramental Test

The Presbyterian's Plea of Merit

Narrative of Attempts for the Repeal of the Sacramental Test

Queries relating to the Sacramental Test

Advantages proposed by Repealing the Sacramental Test

Reasons for Repealing the Sacramental Test in Favour of the Catholics

Some Few Thoughts concerning the Repeal of the Test

Ten Reasons for Repealing the Test Act

SERMONS:

On Mutual Subjection

On the Testimony of Conscience

On the Trinity

On Brotherly Love

On the Difficulty of Knowing One's Self

On False Witness

On the Wisdom of this World

On Doing Good

On the Martyrdom of King Charles I

On the Poor Man's Contentment

On the Wretched Condition of Ireland

On Sleeping in Church

APPENDICES:

I. Remarks on Dr. Gibbs's Paraphrase of the Psalms

II. Proposal for Preventing the further Growth of Popery

III. Swift and Serjeant Bettesworth

IV. A True and Faithful Narrative of what passed in London

INDEX TO THE WRITINGS ON RELIGION AND THE CHURCH

NOTE.

The portrait which forms the frontispiece to this volume is taken, by permission, from the
painting in the possession of the Earl of Howth, K.P.

*****       *****       *****       *****       *****

A LETTER

FROM A MEMBER OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS IN IRELAND TO

A MEMBER OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS IN ENGLAND

CONCERNING THE

SACRAMENTAL TEST.

WRITTEN IN THE YEAR 1708.

NOTE.

In the "foreword" to the reprint of this tract in the "Miscellanies" of 1711, Swift remarks:
"I have been assured that the suspicion which the supposed author lay under for writing this
letter absolutely ruined him with the late ministry." The "late ministry" was the Whig ministry
of which Godolphin was the Premier. To this ministry the repeal of the Test Act was a matter
of much concern. To test the effect of such a repeal it was determined to try it in Ireland
first. There the Presbyterians had distinguished themselves by their loyalty to William and
the Protestant succession. These, therefore, offered a good excuse for the introduction of
such a measure, particularly when, in 1708, an invasion was rumoured, they were the first to
send in loyal addresses to the Queen. Swift likened this method to "that of a discreet physician,
who first gives a new medicine to a dog, before he prescribes it to a human creature." Further,
the Speaker of the Irish House had come over to England to agitate for the repeal. On this
matter Swift wrote to Archbishop King, under date April 15th (the letter was first published
by Mr. John Forster in his "Life of Swift," p. 246), as follows: "Some days ago my Lord Somers
entered with me into discourse about the Test clause, and desired my opinion upon it, which
I gave him truly, though with all the gentleness I could; because, as I am inclined and obliged
to value the friendship he professes for me, so he is a person whose favour I would engage
in the affairs of the First Fruits.... If it became me to give ill names to ill things and
persons, I should be at a loss to find bad enough for the villainy and baseness of a certain
lawyer of Ireland [Speaker Brodrick, afterwards Lord Midleton], who is in a station the least
of all others excusable for such proceedings, and yet has been going about most industriously
to all his acquaintance of both houses towards the end of the session to show the necessity
of taking off the Test clause in Ireland by an act here, wherein you may be sure he had his
brother's assistance. If such a project should be resumed next session, and I in England, unless
your grace send me your absolute commands to the contrary, which I should be sorry to receive,
I could hardly forbear publishing some paper in opposition to it, or leaving one behind me,
if there should be occasion." In August of the same year the agitation for the repeal was renewed,
and in December Swift published his "Letter on the Sacramental Test," writing as if from Dublin
and as a member of the Irish House of Commons. When he writes to King in the following month
he makes a mild attempt to convince the Archbishop that the pamphlet was not of his authorship.
"The author has gone out of his way to reflect on me as a person likely to write for repealing
the test, which I am sure is very unfair treatment. This is all I am likely to get by the company
I keep. I am used like a sober man with a drunken face, have the scandal of the vice without
the satisfaction." But King was not deceived. In his reply to Swift he simply remarks: "You
need not be concerned: I will engage you will lose nothing by that paper." Swift, however,
lost more than the Archbishop thought; for "that paper" led to his severance from the Whigs,
and, in after life, to much contumely cast on his character for being a political renegade.
Because "he was not Whig enough;" because he would not forsake his Church for his party, critics
and biographers have thought fit to make little of him, and to compare him to his discredit
with contemporaries whose intellects he held in the palm of his hand, and to whom he might
have stood as a moral exemplar.

Swift refers to this tract in his "Memoirs relating to the change in the Queen's Ministry,"
as follows:--"It was everybody's opinion, that the Earl of Wharton would endeavour, when he
went to Ireland, to take off the test, as a step to have it taken off here: upon which I drew
up and printed a pamphlet, by way of a letter from a member of parliament here, shewing the
danger to the Church by such an intent. Although I took all care to be private, yet the Lieutenant's
chaplain, and some others guessed me to be the author, and told his Excellency their suspicions;
whereupon I saw him no more until I went to Ireland."

The tract is one of the most favourable specimens of Swift's controversial method and trenchant
satire. The style is excellent--forcible and pithy; while the arguments are like most of Swift's
arguments, aptly to the point with yet a potentiality of application which fits them for the
most general statement of the principles under discussion. Scott considers the pamphlet "as
having materially contributed to the loss of the bill for repeal of the Test Act during the
Earl of Pembroke's vice-royalty." In the same year Swift wrote "A Letter to a Member of Parliament
in Ireland on choosing a new Speaker there." This short tract bears also on the question of
the Test; but it is not included in this volume, since it was intended as an electioneering
pamphlet.

I have been unable to obtain access to a copy of the first edition of the "Letter on the Sacramental
Test." The text here given is that of the "Miscellanies" of 1711, collated with that given
in the "Miscellanies," 1728, and with those printed by Faulkner, Hawkesworth, and Scott.

[T.S.]

  A LETTER CONCERNING THE
  SACRAMENTAL TEST.

ADVERTISEMENT.[1]

[Footnote 1: This "Advertisement" is taken from "Miscellanies in Prose and Verse," printed
for John Morphew, 1711. On page 314 of that volume it forms a "foreword" to "A Letter concerning
the Sacramental Test." It is omitted from the reprint in the "Miscellanies" of 1728. The page
which Swift says he has taken leave to omit cannot be identified. Probably this was another
of Swift's manoeuvres for concealing the identity of the author. The "Advertisement" of George
Faulkner to his edition of Swift's Works (vol. iv., 1735) is as follows:

"In the second volume of Doctor Swift's and Mr. Pope's 'Miscellanies,' I found the following
treatise, which had been printed in London, with some other of the Dean's works, many years
before, but at first came out by itself in the year 1708, as the date shews: And it was at
a juncture when the Dissenters were endeavouring to repeal the Sacramental Test, as by common
fame, and some pamphlets published to the same purpose, they seem to be now again attempting,
with great hope of success. I have, therefore, taken the liberty to make an extract out of
that discourse, omitting only some passages which relate to certain persons, and are of no
consequence to the argument. But the author's weight of reasoning seems at present to have
more weight than it had in those times, when the discourse first appeared.

"The author, in this letter, personates a Member of Parliament here [Dublin], to a Member of
Parliament in England.

"The Speaker mentioned in this letter was Allen Broderick, afterwards Chancellor and Lord Middleton;
and the prelate was Dr. Lyndsay, afterwards Lord Primate," [T.S.]]

The following letter is supposed by some judicious persons to be of the same author, and, if
their conjectures be right, it will be of no disadvantage to him to have it revived, considering
the time when it was writ, the persons then at the helm, and the designs in agitation, against
which this paper so boldly appeared. I have taken leave to omit about a page which was purely
personal, and of no use to the subject.

Dublin, Dec. 4, 1708.

Sir,

I received your letter, wherein you tell me of the strange representations made of us on your
side of the water. The instance you are pleased to mention is that of the Presbyterian missionary,
who, according to your phrase, hath been lately persecuted at Drogheda for his religion: But
it is easy to observe, how mighty industrious some people have been for three or four years
past, to hand about stories of the hardships, the merits, the number, and the power of the
Presbyterians in Ireland, to raise formidable ideas of the dangers of Popery there, and to
transmit all for England, improved by great additions, and with special care to have them inserted
with comments in those infamous weekly papers that infest your coffee-houses. So, when the
clause enacting a Sacramental Test was put in execution, it was given out in England, that
half the justices of peace through this kingdom had laid down their commissions; whereas upon
examination, the whole number was found to amount only to a dozen or thirteen, and those generally
of the lowest rate in fortune and understanding, and some of them superannuated. So, when the
Earl of Pembroke was in Ireland and the Parliament sitting, a formal story was very gravely
carried to his Excellency by some zealous members, of a priest newly arrived from abroad to
the north-west parts of Ireland, who had publicly preached to his people, to fall a-murdering
the Protestants; which, though invented to serve an end they were then upon, and are still
driving at, it was presently handed over, and printed with shrewd remarks by your worthy scribblers.
In like manner, the account of that person who was lately expelled our university for reflecting
on the memory of King William, what a dust it raised, and how foully it was related, is fresh
enough in memory.[2] Neither would people be convinced till the university was at the pains
of publishing a Latin paper to justify themselves. And, to mention no more, this story of the
persecution at Drogheda, how it hath been spread and aggravated, what consequences have been
drawn from it, and what reproaches fixed on those who have least deserved them, we are already
informed. Now if the end of all this proceeding were a secret and mystery, I should not undertake
to give it an interpretation, but sufficient care hath been taken to give it sufficient explanation.[3]
First, by addresses artificially (if not illegally) procured, to shew the miserable state of
the dissenters in Ireland by reason of the Sacramental Test, and to desire the Queen's intercession
that it might be repealed. Then it is manifest that our Speaker, when he was last year in England,
solicited, in person, several members of both Houses, to have it repealed by an act there,
though it be a matter purely national, that cannot possibly interfere with the trade and interest
of England, and though he himself appeared formerly the most zealous of all men against the
injustice of binding a nation by laws to which they do not consent. And lastly, those weekly
libellers, whenever they get a tale by the end relating to Ireland, without ever troubling
their thoughts about the truth, always end it with an application against the Sacramental Test,
and the absolute necessity there is of repealing it in both kingdoms. I know it may be reckoned
a weakness to say anything of such trifles as are below a serious man's notice; much less would
I disparage the understanding of any party to think they would choose the vilest and most ignorant
among mankind, to employ them for assertors of a cause. I shall only say, that the scandalous
liberty those wretches take would hardly be allowed, if it were not mingled with opinions that
some men would be glad to advance. Besides, how insipid soever those papers are, they seem
to be levelled to the understandings of a great number; they are grown a necessary part in
coffee-house furniture, and some time or other may happen to be read by customers of all ranks,
for curiosity and amusement; because they lie always in the way. One of these authors (the
fellow that was pilloried I have forgot his name)[4] is indeed so grave, sententious, dogmatical
a rogue, that there is no enduring him; the Observator[5] is much the brisker of the two, and
I think farther gone of late in lies and impudence, than his Presbyterian brother. The reason
why I mention him, is to have an occasion of letting you know, that you have not dealt so gallantly
with us, as we did with you in a parallel case: Last year, a paper was brought here from England,
called, "A Dialogue between the Archbishop of Canterbury and Mr. Higgins," which we ordered
to be burnt by the common hangman, as it well deserved; though we have no more to do with his
Grace of Canterbury[6] than you have with the Archbishop of Dublin[7]; nor can you love and
reverence your prelate more than we do ours, whom you tamely suffer to be abused openly, and
by name, by that paltry rascal of an Observator; and lately upon an affair wherein he had no
concern; I mean the business of the missionary at Drogheda, wherein our excellent primate was
engaged, and did nothing but according to law and discretion. But because the Lord Archbishop
of Dublin hath been upon several occasions of late years, misrepresented in England, I would
willingly set you right in his character. For his great sufferings and eminent services he
was by the late King promoted to the see of Derry. About the same time, he wrote a book to
justify the Revolution, wherein was an account of King James's proceedings in Ireland, and
the late Archbishop Tillotson recommended it to the King as the most serviceable treatise that
could have been published at such a juncture.[8] And as his Grace set out upon those principles,
he has proceeded so ever since, as a loyal subject to the Queen, entirely for the succession
in the Protestant line, and for ever excluding the Pretender; and though a firm friend to the
Church, yet with indulgence toward dissenters, as appears from his conduct at Derry, where
he was settled for many years among the most virulent of the sect; yet upon his removal to
Dublin, they parted from him with tears in their eyes, and universal acknowledgments of his
wisdom and goodness. For the rest, it must be owned, he does not busy himself by entering deep
into any party, but rather spends his time in acts of hospitality and charity, in building
of churches, repairing his palace, in introducing and preferring the worthiest persons he can
find, without other regards; in short, in the practice of all virtues that can become a public
or private life. This and more, if possible, is due to so excellent a person, who may be justly
reckoned among the greatest and most learned prelates of his age, however his character may
be defiled by such mean and dirty hands as those of the Observator or such as employ him.[9]

[Footnote 2:  The Provost and Fellows of Trinity College, Dublin, had lately expelled Edward
Forbes for the cause mentioned in the text. [S.]]

[Footnote 3:  Faulkner prints: "But sufficient care hath been taken to explain it." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: Daniel Defoe (1663?-1731), the son of a Cripplegate butcher. Entered business
as a hosier, but failed. In 1695 he was appointed one of the commissioners for duties on glass.
Wrote "The True Born Englishman" (1701); "The Shortest Way with the Dissenters," for which
he was pilloried, fined, and imprisoned; and numerous other works, including "Robinson Crusoe;"
"Life of Captain Singleton;" "History of Duncan Campbell;" "Life of Moll Flanders;" "Roxana;"
"Life of Colonel Jack;" "Journal of the Plague;" "History of the Devil;" and "Religious Courtship."
He edited a paper called "The Review," to which Swift here refers, and against which Charles
Leslie wrote his "Rehearsals." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: John Tutchin, a virulent writer of the reign of James II. For a political work
in defence of Monmouth he was sentenced by Judge Jefferies to be whipped through several market
towns. He wrote the "Observator" (begun April, 1702), and suffered at the hands of the Tories
for his writings. He died in great poverty in 1708, at the age of forty-seven. He was also
the author of a play entitled, "The Unfortunate Shepherd." For his attacks on the Roman Catholics
he was in 1691 created Bishop of Lincoln. He was made Archbishop of Canterbury in 1694. He
wrote a "Discourse of Idolatry," an answer to Hobbes, and published several sermons. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: Dr. William King. See vol. iii., p. 241, note. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8:  Dr. King was twice imprisoned in the castle of Dublin after the landing of King
James in Ireland in 1699, and narrowly escaped assassination. The title of the work alluded
to is: "The State of the Protestants in Ireland under the late King James's Government, in
which their carriage towards him is justified, and the absolute necessity of their endeavouring
to be freed from his Government, and of submitting to their present Majesties, is demonstrated."
[S.]]

[Footnote 9:  The portion of this paragraph beginning with "The reason why I mention him,"
to the end, "such as employ him," is omitted by Faulkner. [T.S.]]

I now come to answer the other part of your letter, and shall give you my opinion freely about
repealing the Sacramental Test; only whereas you desire my thoughts as a friend, and not as
I am a member of parliament, I must assure you they are exactly the same in both capacities.

I must begin by telling you, we are generally surprised at your wonderful kindness to us on
this occasion, it being so very industrious to teach us to see our interest in a point where
we are so unable to see it ourselves. This hath given us some suspicion; and though in my own
particular, I am hugely bent to believe, that whenever you concern yourselves in our affairs,
it is certainly for our good, yet I have the misfortune to be something singular in this belief,
and therefore I never attempt to justify it, but content myself to possess my own opinion in
private, for fear of encountering men of more wit or words than I have to spare.

We at this distance, who see nothing of the spring of actions, are forced by mere conjecture
to assign two reasons for your desiring us to repeal the Sacramental Test: One is, because
you are said to imagine it will be one step towards the like good work in England: The other
more immediate, that it will open a way for rewarding several persons who have well deserved
upon a great occasion, but who are now unqualified through that impediment.

I do not frequently quote poets, especially English, but I remember there is in some of Mr.
Cowley's love verses, a strain that I thought extraordinary at fifteen, and have often since
imagined it to be spoken by Ireland:

  "Forbid it Heaven my life should be
  Weigh'd with her least conveniency:"

In short, whatever advantage you propose to yourselves by repealing the Sacramental Test, speak
it out plainly, 'tis the best argument you can use, for we value your interest much more than
our own: If your little finger be sore, and you think a poultice made of our vitals will give
it any ease, speak the word and it shall be done; the interest of our whole kingdom is at any
time ready to strike to that of your poorest fishing towns; it is hard you will not accept
our services, unless we believe at the same time that you are only consulting our profit, and
giving us marks of your love. If there be a fire at some distance, and I immediately blow up
my house before there be occasion, because you are a man of quality, and apprehend some danger
to a corner of your stable; yet why should you require me to attend next morning at your levee
with my humble thanks for the favour you have done me?

If we might be allowed to judge for ourselves, we had abundance of benefit by the Sacramental
Test, and foresee a number of mischiefs would be the consequence of repealing it, and we conceive
the objections made against it by the dissenters are of no manner of force: They tell us of
their merits in the late war in Ireland, and how cheerfully they engaged for the safety of
the nation; that had they thought they had been fighting only other people's quarrels, perhaps
it might have cooled their zeal; and that for the future, they shall sit down quietly and let
us do our work ourselves; nay, that it is necessary they should do so, since they cannot take
up arms under the penalty of high treason.

Now supposing them to have done their duty, as I believe they did, and not to trouble them
about the fly on the wheel; I thought Liberty, Property and Religion had been the three subjects
of the quarrel, and have not all those been amply secured to them? Had they not at that time
a mental reservation for power and employments? And must these two articles be added henceforward
in our national quarrels? It is grown a mighty conceit among some men to melt down the phrase
of a Church Established by law into that of the Religion of the Magistrate; of which appellation
it is easier to find the reason than the sense: If by the magistrate they mean the prince,
the expression includes a falsehood; for when King James was prince[10], the Established Church
was the same it is now. If by the same word they mean the Legislature, we desire no more. Be
that as it will, we of this kingdom believe the Church of Ireland to be the National Church,
and the only one established by law, and are willing by the same law to give a toleration to
dissenters: But if once we repeal our Sacramental Test, and grant a toleration, or suspend
the execution of the penal laws, I do not see how we can be said to have any Established Church
remaining; or rather why there will not be as many established churches, as there are sects
of dissenters. No, say they, yours will still be the National Church, because your bishops
and clergy are maintained by the public; but, that, I suppose, will be of no long duration,
and it would be very unjust it should, because, to speak in Tindal's phrase,[11] it is not
reasonable that revenues should be annexed to one opinion more than another, when all are equally
lawful, and 'tis the same author's maxim, that no freeborn subject ought to pay for maintaining
speculations he does not believe. But why should any man, upon account of opinions he cannot
help, be deprived of the opportunity of serving his Queen and country? Their zeal is commendable,
and when employments go a begging for want of hands, they shall be sure to have the refusal,
only upon condition they will not pretend to them upon maxims which equally include atheists,
Turks, Jews, infidels, and heretics, or which is still more dangerous, even Papists themselves;
the former you allow, the other you deny, because these last own a foreign power, and therefore
must be shut out. But there is no great weight in this; for their religion can suit with free
states, with limited or absolute monarchies, as well as a better, and the Pope's power in France
is but a shadow; so that upon this foot there need be no great danger to the constitution by
admitting Papists to employments. I will help you to enough of them who shall be ready to allow
the Pope as little power here as you please; and the bare opinion of his being vicar of Christ
is but a speculative point, for which no man it seems ought to be deprived of the capacity
of serving his country.

[Footnote 10: The words from "the expression" to "was prince" are omitted by Faulkner in his
edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: See vol. iii, p. 9, note. [T.S.]]

But, if you please, I will tell you the great objection we have against repealing this same
Sacramental Test. It is, that we are verily persuaded the consequence will be an entire alteration
of religion among us in a no great compass of years. And, pray observe, how we reason here
in Ireland upon this matter.

We observe the Scots in our northern parts, to be a brave, industrious people, extremely devoted
to their religion, and full of an undisturbed affection towards each other. Numbers of that
noble nation, invited by the fertilities of the soil, are glad to exchange their barren hills
of Loquabar, by a voyage of three hours, for our fruitful vales of Down and Antrim, so productive
of that grain, which, at little trouble and less expense finds diet and lodging for themselves
and their cattle.[12] These people by their extreme parsimony, wonderful dexterity in dealing,
and firm adherence to one another, soon grow into wealth from the smallest beginnings, never
are rooted out where they once fix, and increase daily by new supplies; besides when they are
the superior number in any tract of ground, they are not over patient of mixture; but such,
whom they cannot assimilate, soon find it their interest to remove. I have done all in my power
on some land of my own to preserve two or three English fellows in their neighbourhood, but
found it impossible, though one of them thought he had sufficiently made his court by turning
Presbyterian. Add to all this, that they bring along with them from Scotland a most formidable
notion of our Church, which they look upon at least three degrees worse than Popery; and it
is natural it should be so, since they come over full fraught with that spirit which taught
them to abolish Episcopacy at home.

[Footnote 12: From this passage, perhaps, Johnson derived the famous definition of oats, in
his Dictionary, as the food of horses in England, and of men in Scotland. [S.]]

Then we proceed farther, and observe, that the gentlemen of employments here, make a very considerable
number in the House of Commons, and have no other merit but that of doing their duty in their
several stations; therefore when the Test is repealed, it will be highly reasonable they should
give place to those who have much greater services to plead. The commissions of the revenue
are soon disposed of, and the collectors and other officers throughout this kingdom, are generally
appointed by the commissioners, which give them a mighty influence in every country. As much
may be said of the great officers in the law; and when this door is open to let dissenters
into the commissions of the peace, to make them High Sheriffs, Mayors of Corporations, and
officers of the army and militia; I do not see how it can be otherwise, considering their industry
and our supineness, but that they may in a very few years grow to a majority in the House of
Commons, and consequently make themselves the national religion, and have a fair pretence to
demand the revenues of the Church for their teachers. I know it will be objected, that if all
this should happen as I describe, yet the Presbyterian religion could never be made the national
by act of Parliament, because our bishops are so great a number in the House of Lords, and
without a majority there, the Church could not be abolished. But I have two very good expedients
for that, which I shall leave you to guess, and I dare swear our Speaker here has often thought
on, especially having endeavoured at one of them so lately. That this design is not so foreign
from some people's thoughts, I must let you know that an honest bellwether[13] of our house
(you have him now in England, I wish you could keep him there) had the impudence some years
ago, in Parliament time, to shake my Lord Bishop of Kilaloe[14] by his lawn sleeve, and tell
him in a threatening manner, "that he hoped to live to see the day when there should not be
one of his order in the kingdom."

[Footnote 13: Supposed to be Mr. Broderick. [F.]]

[Footnote 14: Dr. Lindsay, afterwards Lord Primate. [S.]]

These last lines perhaps you think a digression; therefore to return: I have told you the consequences
we fully reckon upon from repealing the Sacramental Test, which although the greatest number
of such as are for doing it, are actually in no manner of pain about it, and many of them care
not threepence whether there be any Church, or no; yet because they pretend to argue from conscience
as well as policy and interest, I thought it proper to understand and answer them accordingly.

Now, sir, in answer to your question, whether if an attempt should be made here for repealing
the Sacramental Test, it would be likely to succeed? The number of professed dissenters in
this Parliament was, as I remember, something under a dozen, and I cannot call to mind above
thirty others who were expected to fall in with them. This is certain, that the Presbyterian
party having with great industry mustered up their forces, did endeavour one day upon occasion
of a hint in my Lord Pembroke's speech, to introduce a debate about repealing the Test clause,
when there appeared at least four to one odds against them; and the ablest of those who were
reckoned the most staunch and thorough-paced Whigs upon all other occasions, fell off with
an abhorrence at the first mention of this.

I must desire you to take notice, that the terms of Whig and Tory, do not properly express
the different interests in our parliament. So that the parties among us are made up, on one
side, of moderate Whigs, and on the other, of Presbyterians and their abettors; by which last
I mean, such who can equally go to a Church or Conventicle, or such who are indifferent to
all religion in general, or lastly such who affect to bear a personal rancour toward the clergy:
These last are a set of men not of our own growth, their principles at least have been imported
of late years; yet this whole party put together will not, I am confident, amount to above
fifty men in Parliament, which can hardly be worked up into a majority of three hundred.

[Footnote 15: The passage beginning with "I remember when I was last in England," and ending
with "within our definition," is omitted by Faulkner. [T.S.]]

As to the House of Lords, the difficulty there is conceived at least as great as in ours. So
many of our temporal peers live in England, that the bishops are generally pretty near a par
of the House, and we reckon they will be all to a man against repealing the Test; and yet their
lordships are generally thought as good Whigs upon our principles as any in the kingdom. There
are indeed a few lay lords who appear to have no great devotion for Episcopacy; and perhaps
one or two more with whom certain powerful motives might be used for removing any difficulty
whatsoever; but these are in no sort of a number to carry any point against the conjunction
of the rest and the whole bench of bishops.

Besides, the whole body of our clergy is utterly against repealing the Test, though they are
entirely devoted to her Majesty, and hardly one in a hundred who are not very good Whigs in
our acceptation of the word. And I must let you know, that we of Ireland are not yet come up
to other folk's refinements; for we generally love and esteem our clergy, and think they deserve
it; nay, we are apt to lay some weight upon their opinion, and would not willingly disoblige
them, at least unless it were upon some greater point of interest than this. And their judgment
in the present affair is the more to be regarded, because they are the last persons who will
be affected by it: This makes us think them impartial, and that their concern is only for religion
and the interest of the kingdom. Because the act which repeals the Test, will only qualify
a layman for an employment, but not a Presbyterian or Anabaptist preacher for a church-living.
Now I must take leave to inform you, that several members of our House, and myself among the
rest, knowing some time ago what was upon the anvil, went to all the clergy we knew of any
distinction, and desired their judgment of the matter, wherein we found a most wonderful agreement;
there being but one divine that we could hear of in the whole kingdom, who appeared of a contrary
sentiment, wherein he afterwards stood alone in the convocation, very little to his credit,
though, as he hoped, very much to his interest.

I will now consider a little the arguments offered to shew the advantages, or rather the necessity,
of repealing the Test in Ireland. We are told, the Popish interest is here so formidable, that
all hands should be joined to keep it under; that the only names of distinction among us ought
to be those of Protestant and Papist, and that this expedient is the only means to unite all
Protestants upon one common bottom. All which is nothing but misrepresentation and mistake.
Their lands are almost entirely taken from them, and they are rendered incapable of purchasing
any more; and for the little that remains, provision is made by the late act against Popery,
that it will daily crumble away: To prevent which, some of the most considerable among them
are already turned Protestants, and so in all probability will many more. Neither are they
at all likely to join in any considerable numbers with an invader, having found so ill success
when they were much more numerous and powerful; when they had a prince of their own religion
to head them, had been trained for some years under a Popish deputy, and received such mighty
aids from the French king.

As to that argument used for repealing the Test, that it will unite all Protestants against
the common enemy, I wonder by what figure those gentlemen speak who are pleased to advance
it: Suppose in order to increase the friendship between you and me, a law should pass that
I must have half your estate; do you think that would much advance the union between us? Or,
suppose I share my fortune equally between my own children, and a stranger whom I take into
my protection; will that be a method to unite them? Tis an odd way of uniting parties, to deprive
a majority of part of their ancient right, by conferring it on a faction who had never any
right at all, and therefore cannot be said to suffer any loss or injury if it be refused them.
Neither is it very clear, how far some people may stretch the term of common enemy. How many
are there of those that call themselves Protestants, who look upon our worship to be idolatrous
as well as that of the Papists, and with great charity put Prelacy and Popery together, as
terms convertible?

And, therefore, there is one small doubt, I would be willingly satisfied in before I agree
to the repealing of the Test; that is, whether, these same Protestants, when they have by their
dexterity made themselves the national religion, and disposed the Church revenues among their
pastors or themselves, will be so kind to allow us dissenters, I do not say a share in employments,
but a bare toleration by law? The reason of my doubt is, because I have been so very idle as
to read above fifty pamphlets, written by as many Presbyterian divines, loudly disclaiming
this idol Toleration, some of them calling it (I know not how properly) a rag of Popery, and
all agreeing it was to establish iniquity by law. Now, I would be glad to know when and where
their successors have renounced this doctrine, and before what witnesses. Because, methinks
I should be loth to see my poor titular bishop in partibus, seized on by mistake in the dark
for a Jesuit, or be forced myself to keep my chaplain disguised like my butler, and steal to
prayers in a back room, as my grandfather[l6] used in those times when the Church of England
was malignant.

[Footnote 16: This is Thomas Swift, vicar of Goodrich, in Herefordshire, "much distinguished
by his courage, as well as his loyalty to King Charles the First, and the sufferings he underwent
for that prince, more than any person of his condition in England." See the "Fragment of Autobiography,"
printed by Scott and Forster in their Lives of Swift. [T.S.]]

But this is ripping up old quarrels long forgot; Popery is now the common enemy, against which
we must all unite; I have been tired in history with the perpetual folly of those states who
call in foreigners to assist them against a common enemy: But the mischief was, those allies
would never be brought to allow that the common enemy was quite subdued. And they had reason;
for it proved at last, that one part of the common enemy was those who called them in, and
so the allies became at length the masters.

'Tis agreed among naturalists that a lion is a larger, a stronger, and more dangerous enemy
than a cat; yet if a man were to have his choice, either a lion at his foot, bound fast with
three or four chains, his teeth drawn out, and his claws pared to the quick, or an angry cat
in full liberty at his throat; he would take no long time to determine.

I have been sometimes admiring the wonderful significancy of that word persecution, and what
various interpretations it hath acquired even within my memory. When I was a boy, I often heard
the Presbyterians complain that they were not permitted to serve God in their own way; they
said they did not repine at our employments, but thought that all men who live peaceably ought
to have liberty of conscience, and leave to assemble. That impediment being removed at the
Revolution, they soon learned to swallow the Sacramental Test and began to take very large
steps, wherein all that offered to oppose them, were called men of a persecuting spirit. During
the time the Bill against Occasional Conformity was on foot, persecution was every day rung
in our ears, and now at last the Sacramental Test itself has the same name. Where then is this
matter likely to end, when the obtaining of one request is only used as a step to demand another?
A lover is ever complaining of cruelty while anything is denied him, and when the lady ceases
to be cruel, she is from the next moment at his mercy: So persecution it seems, is everything
that will not leave it in men's power to persecute others.

There is one argument offered against a Sacramental Test, by a sort of men who are content
to be styled of the Church of England, who perhaps attend its service in the morning, and go
with their wives to a conventicle in the afternoon, confessing they hear very good doctrine
in both. These men are much offended that so holy an institution as that of the Lord's Supper
should be made subservient to such mercenary purposes as the getting of an employment. Now,
it seems, the law, concluding all men to be members of that Church where they receive the Sacrament;
and supposing all men to live like Christians (especially those who are to have employments)
did imagine they received the Sacrament in course about four times a year, and therefore only
desired it might appear by certificate to the public, that such who took an office were members
of the Church established, by doing their ordinary duty. However, lest we should offend them,
we have often desired they would deal candidly with us; for if the matter stuck only there,
we would propose it in parliament, that every man who takes an employment should, instead of
receiving the sacrament, be obliged to swear, that he is a member of the Church of Ireland
by law established, with Episcopacy, and so forth; and as they do now in Scotland, to be true
to the Kirk. But when we drive them thus far, they always retire to the main body of the argument,
urge the hardship that men should be deprived the liberty of serving their Queen and country,
on account of their conscience: And, in short, have recourse to the common style of their half
brethren. Now whether this be a sincere way of arguing, I will appeal to any other judgment
but theirs.

There is another topic of clamour somewhat parallel to the foregoing: It seems, by the Test
clause, the military officers are obliged to receive the Sacrament as well as the civil. And
it is a matter of some patience to hear the dissenters declaiming upon this occasion: They
cry they are disarmed, they are used like Papists; when an enemy appears at home, or from abroad,
they must sit still, and see their throats cut, or be hanged for high treason if they offer
to defend themselves. Miserable condition! Woful dilemma! It is happy for us all, that the
Pretender was not apprized of this passive Presbyterian principle, else he would have infallibly
landed in our northern parts, and found them all sat down in their formalities, as the Gauls
did the Roman senators, ready to die with honour in their callings. Sometimes to appease their
indignation, we venture to give them hopes that in such a case the government will perhaps
connive, and hardly be so severe to hang them for defending it against the letter of the law;
to which they readily answer, that they will not lie at our mercy, but let us fight our battles
ourselves. Sometimes we offer to get an act, by which upon all Popish insurrections at home,
or Popish invasion from abroad, the government shall be empowered to grant commissions to all
Protestants whatsoever, without that persecuting circumstance of obliging them to say their
prayers when they receive the Sacrament; but they abhor all thoughts of occasional commissions,
they will not do our drudgery, and we reap the benefit: It is not worth their while to fight
pro aris et focis, and they had rather lose their estates, liberties, religion and lives, than
the pleasure of governing.

But to bring this discourse toward a conclusion: If the dissenters will be satisfied with such
a toleration by law as hath been granted them in England, I believe the majority of both Houses
will fall readily in with it; farther it will be hard to persuade this House of Commons, and
perhaps much harder the next. For, to say the truth, we make a mighty difference here between
suffering thistles to grow among us, and wearing them for posies. We are fully convinced in
our consciences, that we shall always tolerate them, but not quite so fully that they will
always tolerate us, when it comes to their turn; and we are the majority, and we are in possession.

He who argues in defence of a law in force, not antiquated or obsolete, but lately enacted,
is certainly on the safer side, and may be allowed to point out the dangers he conceives to
foresee in the abrogation of it.

For if the consequences of repealing this clause, should at some time or other enable the Presbyterians
to work themselves up into the National Church; instead of uniting Protestants, it would sow
eternal divisions among them. First, their own sects, which now lie dormant, would be soon
at cuffs again with each other about power and preferment; and the dissenting Episcopals, perhaps
discontented to such a degree, as upon some fair unhappy occasion, would be able to shake the
firmest loyalty, which none can deny theirs to be.

Neither is it very difficult to conjecture from some late proceedings, at what a rate this
faction is likely to drive wherever it gets the whip and the seat. They have already set up
courts of spiritual judicature in open contempt of the laws: They send missionaries everywhere,
without being invited, in order to convert the Church of England folks to Christianity. They
are as vigilant as I know who, to attend persons on their death-beds, and for purposes much
alike. And what practices such principles as these (with many other that might be invidious
to mention) may spawn when they are laid out to the sun, you may determine at leisure.

Lastly, Whether we are so entirely sure of their loyalty upon the present foot of government
as you may imagine, their detractors make a question, which however, does, I think, by no means
affect the body of dissenters; but the instance produced is, of some among their leading teachers
in the north, who having refused the Abjuration Oath, yet continue their preaching, and have
abundance of followers. The particulars are out of my head, but the fact is notorious enough,
and I believe has been published; I think it a pity, it has not been remedied.

Thus, I have fairly given you, Sir, my own opinion, as well as that of a great majority in
both Houses here, relating to this weighty affair, upon which I am confident you may securely
reckon. I will leave you to make what use of it you please.

I am, with great respect, Sir,

Yours, &c.

*****       *****       *****       *****       *****

THE PRESBYTERIANS' PLEA OF MERIT.

NOTE.

THE reference casually made by Swift, in his "Letter on the Sacramental Test," to his grandfather
and the "malignant Church," probably points to one of the causes for his persistent dislike
towards the Protestant dissenters. His attitude displays a profound disgust both for their
teaching and their conduct; and he found, very early, occasion to ridicule them, as may be
seen in his description of Jack, Martin, and Peter in "A Tale of a Tub" (see vol. i. of this
edition). In spite, however, of this attitude, Swift seems to have remained silent on the question
of the repeal of the Test Act for a period of more than twenty years. He had published his
"Letter from a Member of the House of Commons in Ireland" in 1708; but it was not until 1731
that he again took up his pen against Dissent.

In that year, and in the two subsequent ones, the Presbyterians fought very strenuously for
a mitigation of the laws against them; and the literature which has been handed down to us
of that fight is by no means insignificant. The tracts which we know to be of Swift's authorship
are: "The Presbyterians' Plea of Merit" (1731); "A Narrative of the several Attempts which
the Dissenters of Ireland have made for a repeal of the Sacramental Test" (1731); "The Advantages
proposed by Repealing the Sacramental Test impartially considered" (1732); "Queries Relating
to the Sacramental Test" (1732); "Reasons humbly offered to the Parliament of Ireland for Repealing
the Test in favour of Roman Catholics" (1733); "Some Few Thoughts Concerning the Test;" and,
according to Sir Walter Scott, "Ten Reasons for Repealing the Test Act."

Monck Mason, in his elaborate note on this particular literature of the period (see "History
of St. Patrick's Cathedral," pp. 387, 388, notes), gives a list of sixteen pamphlets, many
of which he considers to be so well written that they would have done no discredit to Swift
himself. The list is here transcribed for the benefit of the student:

(i.) "Nature and Consequences of the Sacramental Test considered; with Remarks humbly offered
for the Repeal of it." 1732.

(ii.) "Remarks on a Pamphlet, entitled, 'The Nature and Consequences of the Sacramental Test
Considered.'" Dublin, 1732, 12mo.

(iii.) "The History of the Test Act: in which the Mistakes in some Writings against it are
Rectified, and the Importance of it to the Church explained." Printed at London and Dublin:
and reprinted by George Faulkner. 1733, 12mo.

(iv.) "Plain Reasons against the Repeal of the Test Act; humbly offered to publick Consideration."
Dublin: printed by George Faulkner. 1733, 12mo.

(v.) "The Test Act Examined by the Test of Reason." Dublin, 1733, 12mo.

(vi.) "The Case of the Episcopal Dissenters in Scotland, and that of the Dissenters in Ireland
Compared; with Relation to Toleration, and a Capacity for Civil Offices. In a Letter to a Member
of Parliament." Dublin, 1733, 8vo.

¶ This tract refers to another entitled: "The Tables Turned against the Presbyterians; or,
Reasons against the Sacramental Test, by a General Assembly of Scotland."

(vii.) "The Case of the Test Considered, with respect to Ireland." Dublin, Faulkner, 1733.

(viii) "The natural Impossibilities of better Uniting Protestants &c. by Repealing the Test."
Dublin: Printed by George Faulkner, 1733.

(ix.) "Ten Reasons for Repealing the Test Act."

¶ Scott reprints this as Swift's from the broadside original.

(x-xi.) "A Vindication of the Protestant Dissenters from the Aspersions Cast upon them in a
late Pamphlet, entitled, 'The Presbyterians 'Plea of Merit &c.,' with some Remarks on a Paper
called 'The Correspondent,' giving a pretended Narrative, &c."

¶ Swift refers to this pamphlet in his "Roman Catholic Reasons for Repealing the Test." It
is also noted by the printer of the undated second edition of the London reprint of "The Plea."

(xii.) "The Dispute Adjusted, about the proper time of applying for a Repeal of the Corporation
and Test Acts: by shewing that no time is proper. By the Reverend Father in God, Edmund Lord
Bishop of London."

¶ Faulkner, in the second edition of "The Presbyterians' Plea," advertises this tract to appear
in 1733. The author of "The Case of the Episcopal Dissenters in Scotland" mentions that it
has been "lately re-printed" in Ireland, but that it is "falsely ascribed to the Bishop of London."

(xiii.) "The Test Act considered in a Political Light." 1733. Broadside.

(xiv.) "Queries upon the Demand of the Presbyterians to have the Sacramental Test Repealed
at this Session of Parliament." 1733. Broadside.

¶ These Queries differ somewhat from those put by Swift in 1732.

(xv.) "A Letter from a Freeman of a certain Burrough, in the North of Ireland, to his Friend
and Representative in Parliament; shewing Reasons why the Test Act should not be Repealed."
1733. Broadside.

(xvi.)
  "The Grunter's Request
       To take Off the Test."
                     [A Poem.] 1733. 12mo.

Scott suggests ("Life of Jonathan Swift," 1824, p.401) that "probably more occasional tracts"
were written by the Dean on the subject of the Test "than have yet been recovered." The curious
student may satisfy himself on this matter by reading the above pamphlets. Neither Monck Mason,
Dr. Barrett, nor Scott himself, cared to take upon themselves to decide whether any of them
were by Swift; nor have any of the Dean's modern biographers thrown any light on the subject.
A point to note in this consideration is the fact that Faulkner, in his collected edition of
Swift's works, did not include any of these; and, as he himself published many of them, he
would certainly have known something of their authorship.

Swift's agitation against the repeal of the Test was so successful that the Irish House of
Commons found itself in a majority for the Test. In addition to the prose tracts Swift wrote
a stinging poem "On the Words Brother Protestants and Fellow Christians," an expression familiarly
used by the advocates for the Repeal of the Test Act. This poem brought him into personal conflict
with one Serjeant Bettesworth, who "openly swore, before many hundreds of people, that upon
the first opportunity, by the help of ruffians, he would murder or maim the Dean of St. Patrick's."

The affair ended in the further ridicule of Bettesworth, who complained in the Irish House
of Commons that the lampoon had cost him £1,200 a year. A full account of Swift's interview
with Bettesworth is given by Swift in a letter to the Duke of Dorset, dated January, 1733-1734;
and the "Grub Street Journal" for August 9th, 1734, tells how the inhabitants of the City of
Dublin came to Swift's aid. Perhaps Bettesworth finally found consolation in the thought, satirically
suggested by Dr. William Dunkin, that, after all, it might be worth the loss of money to be
"transmitted to posterity in Dr. Swift's works."

  "For had he not pointed me out, I had slept till
  E'en Doomsday, a poor insignificant reptile;
  Half lawyer, half actor, pert, dull, and inglorious,
  Obscure, and unheard of--but now I'm notorious:
  Fame has but two gates, a white and a black one;
  The worst they can say is, I got in at the back one:
  If the end be obtained 'tis equal what portal
  I enter, since I'm to be render'd immortal:
  So clysters applied to the anus, 'tis said,
  By skilful physicians, give ease to the head--
  Though my title be spurious, why should I be dastard,
  A man is a man though he should be a bastard.
  Why sure 'tis some comfort that heroes should slay us,
  If I fall, I would fall by the hand of Aeneas;
  And who by the Drapier would not rather damn'd be,
  Than demigoddized by madrigal Namby."[1]

[Footnote 1: Namby was the nickname for Ambrose Philips.]

Scott, and all Swift's editors and biographers, state that "The Presbyterians' Plea of Merit"
was first published in 1731. What authority they have for this statement, I have not been able
to discover. My own research has, so far, failed to find a copy of it with the date, 1731,
on the title-page. The edition upon which the present text is based, is that printed by Faulkner
in 1733, of the title-page of which, a facsimile is here given. This, I believe to be the first
edition. Scott, following Nichols, states that in the first edition of "The Plea," the "Ode
to Humphry French, Esq.," appeared, and that in the second edition, this ode was omitted to
make room for the "Narrative of the Several Attempts made for the Repeal of the Test Act."
Now in the British Museum, there are two undated editions of "The Plea," which bear out this
statement; but these, as the title-pages inform us, are London reprints of Dublin editions.
Since, however, no one has recorded dated Dublin editions corresponding exactly to these London
reprints, the evidence of the reprints counts for very little. Monck Mason, a very accurate
authority, usually, says distinctly, "The Plea" was printed in 1731, and a second edition issued
in 1733; but one gathers from his note that the only edition in his possession was that of
1733, and this has neither the "Ode" nor the "Narrative"; the last page consisting of an advertisement
of the collected editions of Swift's works, which Faulkner was then preparing. The first of
the London reprints bears no indication of any particular edition; the second has the words
"second edition" on the title-page. In his note to this reprint of the "Narrative," and in
his "Life of Swift," Scott refers to a Dublin periodical called "The Correspondent" (in which
the "Narrative" was first published) as being printed in 1731. The only edition of this periodical,
of which I have either seen or heard, is the copy in the British Museum, and that copy distinctly
states: "Printed by James Hoey in Skinner-Row, 1733." If, therefore, this be the first edition
of "The Correspondent," the "Narrative" must be ascribed to the year 1733, and the second edition
of "The Plea" to the end of the same, or the beginning of the following year. I conclude, therefore,
first, that the first edition of "The Plea" is that dated "Dublin, 1733;" second, that the
undated London reprint with the "Ode" is of the same year; and, lastly, that the undated second
London reprint with the "Narrative," is probably of the year, 1734. Examining Scott's text
of this tract, one is forced to the conclusion that he could not have seen the Dublin edition
of 1733; whereas, its almost exact similarity to the London reprint suggests that he used that.
For purposes of the present text all three editions have been collated with one another, and
with those given by Faulkner, Hawkesworth and Scott.

[T.S.]

  THE
  Presbyterians PLEA
  OF
  MERIT;
  In Order to take off the
  TEST,
  Impartially Examined.

  DUBLIN:

  Printed and fold by GEORGE FAULKNER, in
  Essex-Street, opposite to the Bridge, 1733.

We have been told in the common newspapers, that all attempts are to be made this session by
the Presbyterians, and their abettors, for taking off the Test, as a kind of preparatory step,
to make it go down smoother in England. For, if once their light would so shine, the Papists,
delighted with the blaze, would all come in, and dance about it. [T.S.]]

The Presbyterians have, ever since the Revolution directed their learned casuists to employ
their pens on this subject; by shewing the merits and pretensions upon which they claim this
justice; as founded upon the services they did toward the restoration of King Charles the Second;
and at the Revolution under the Prince of Orange. Which pleas I take to be the most singular,
in their kind, that ever were offered in the face of the sun, against the most glaring light
of truth, and against a continuation of public facts, known to all Europe for twenty years
together. I shall, therefore, impartially examine the merits and conduct of the Presbyterians,
upon those two great events; and the pretensions to favour, which they challenge upon them.

Soon after the Reformation of the Church in England, under Edward the Sixth, upon Queen Mary's
succeeding to the crown, who restored Popery, many Protestants fled out of England, to escape
the persecution raised against the Church, as her brother had left it established. Some of
these exiles went to Geneva; which city had received the doctrine of Calvin, and rejected the
government of bishops; with many other refinements. These English exiles readily embraced the
Geneva system; and having added farther improvements of their own, upon Queen Mary's death
returned to England; where they preached up their own opinions; inveighing bitterly against
Episcopacy, and all rites and ceremonies, however innocent and ancient in the Church: building
upon this foundation; to run as far as possible from Popery, even in the most minute and indifferent
circumstances: this faction, under the name of Puritan, became very turbulent, during the whole
reign of Queen Elizabeth; and were always discouraged by that wise queen, as well as by her
two successors. However, their numbers, as well as their insolence and perverseness, so far
increased, that soon after the death of King James the First, many instances of their petulancy
and scurrility, are to be seen in their pamphlets, written for some years after; which was
a trade they began in the days of Queen Elizabeth: particularly with great rancour against
the bishops, the habits, and the ceremonies: Such were that scurrilous libel under the title
of Martin Mar-prelate,[2] and several others. And, although the Earl of Clarendon[3] tells
us, that, until the year 1640, (as I remember) the kingdom was in a state of perfect peace
and happiness, without the least appearance of thought or design toward making any alterations
in religion or government; yet I have found, by often rummaging for old books in Little Britain
and Duck-Lane, a great number of pamphlets printed from the year 1530[4] to 1640, full of as
bold and impious railing expressions, against the lawful power of the Crown, and the order
of bishops, as ever were uttered during the Rebellion, or the whole subsequent tyranny of that
fanatic anarchy. However, I find it manifest, that Puritanism did not erect itself into a new,
separate species of religion, till some time after the Rebellion began. For, in the latter
times of King James the First, and the former part of his son, there were several Puritan bishops,
and many Puritan private clergymen; while people went, as their inclinations led them, to hear
preachers of each party in the parish churches. For the Puritan clergy had received Episcopal
orders as well as the rest. But, soon after the Rebellion broke out, the term Puritan gradually
dropped, and that of Presbyterian succeeded; which sect was, in two or three years, established
in all its forms, by what they called an Ordinance of the Lords and Commons, without consulting
the King; who was then at war against his rebels. And, from this period the Church continued
under persecution, till monarchy was restored in the year 1660.

[Footnote 2: According to Mr. Edward Arber the writers of these famous tracts were the Rev.
John Penny and Job Throckmorton, Esq. He calls these two writers "the most eminent prose satirists
of the Elizabethan age." For a full account of these tracts and the controversy, see Mr. Arber's
"Introductory Sketch to the Martin Mar-prelate Controversy, 1588-1590" (1879, English Scholar's
Library). The aim of the Mar-prelate writers is thus stated by the able author of that sketch:
"To ridicule and affront a proud hierarchy [the bishops] endowed with large legal means of
doing mischief, and not wanting in will to exercise these powers to the full. The spell of
the unnatural civil power which had been enjoyed by the Papal prelates in this country remained
with their Protestant successors until this Controversy broke it: so that from this time onwards
the bishops set about to forge a new spell, 'the Divine Right of their temporal position and
power', which hallucination was dissolved by the Long Parliament: from which time a bishop
has usually been considered no more than a man" (Preface, pp. 11-12). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: Edward Hyde, Earl of Clarendon (1608-1674), the author of the "History of the
Great Rebellion." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: The original edition has 1630. [T.S.]]

In a year or two after; we began to hear of a new party risen, and growing in the Parliament,
as well as the army; under the name of Independent: It spread, indeed somewhat more in the
latter; but not equal with the Presbyterians, either in weight or number, till the very time[5]
that the King was murdered.

[Footnote 5: Faulkner prints: "until some time before the King was murdered."[T.S.]]

When the King, who was then a prisoner in the Isle of Wight, had made his last concessions
for a peace to the Commissioners of the Parliament, who attended him there; upon their return
to London, they reported his Majesty's answer to the House. Whereupon, a number of moderate
members, who, as Ludlow[6] says, had secured their own terms with his Majesty, managed with
so much art, as to obtain a majority, in a thin house, for passing a vote, that the King's
concessions were a ground for future settlement. But the great officers of the army, joining
with the discontented members, came to a resolution, of excluding all those who had consented
to that vote; which they executed in a military way. Ireton told Fairfax the General,[7] a
rigid Presbyterian, of this resolution; who thereupon issued his orders for drawing out the
army the next morning, and placing guards in Westminster-hall, the Court of Requests, and the
lobby; who, in obedience to the General, in conjunction with those members who opposed the
vote, would let no member enter the House, except those of their own party. Upon which, the
question for bringing the King to justice, was immediately put and carried without opposition,
that I can find. Then, an order was made for his trial; the time and place appointed; the judges
named; of whom Fairfax himself was one; although by the advice or threats of his wife, he declined
sitting among them. However, by fresh orders under his own hand, which I have seen in print,
he appointed guards to attend the judges at the trial, and to keep the city in quiet; as he
did likewise to prevent any opposition from the people, upon the day of execution.

[Footnote 6: Edmund Ludlow (1620?-1693) lieutenant-general of the Parliamentary army. He was
one of the judges of King Charles's trial, and who signed the death-warrant. He died at Vevay,
in Switzerland, where he had fled on finding that Charles's judges were not included in the
Act of Indemnity. His memoirs were printed at Vevay in 1698-1699.3 vols. 8vo. It is to these
Swift refers. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: Ireton and Fairfax were two famous generals of the Parliamentary army serving
with Cromwell. [T.S.]]

From what I have already deduced, it appears manifest, that the differences between those two
sects, Presbyterian and Independent, did not then amount to half so much as what there is between
a Whig and Tory at present among us. The design of utterly extirpating monarchy and episcopacy,
was equally the same in both; evidently the consequence of the very same principles, upon which
the Presbyterians alone began, continued, and would have ended in the same events; if towards
the conclusion, they had not been bearded by that new party, with whom they could not agree
about dividing the spoil. However, they held a good share of civil and military employments
during the whole time of the usurpation; whose names, and actions, and preferments, are frequent
in the accounts of those times. For I make no doubt, that all the prudent Presbyterians complied
in proper seasons, falling in with the stream; and thereby got that share in employments, which
many of them held to the Restoration; and perhaps too many of them after. In the same manner,
we find our wisest Tories, in both kingdoms, upon the change of hands and measures at the Queen's
death, have endeavoured for several years, by due compliances, to recover the time they had
lost by a temporary obstinacy; wherein they have well succeeded, according to their degrees
of merit. Of whose names I could here make honourable mention, if I did not fear it might offend
their modesty.

As to what is alleged, that some of the Presbyterians declared openly against the King's murder,
I allow it to be true. But, from what motives? No other can possibly be assigned, than perfect
spite, rage, and envy, to find themselves wormed out of all power by a new infant spawn of
Independents, sprung from their own bowels. It is true; the differences in religious tenets
between them are very few and trifling; the chief quarrel, as far as I remember, relating to
congregational and national assemblies. But, wherever interest or power thinks fit to interfere,
it little imports what principles the opposite parties think fit to charge upon each other:
for, we see, at this day, that the Tories are more hated by the whole set of zealous Whigs,
than the very Papists themselves; and, in effect, as much unqualified for the smallest office:
although, both these parties assert themselves to be of the same religion, in all its branches
of doctrine and discipline; and profess the same loyalty to the same Protestant King and his heirs.

If the reader would know what became of this Independent party, upon whom all the mischief
is charged by their Presbyterian brethren; he may please to observe, that during the whole
usurpation, they contended by degrees with their parent sect, and, as I have already said,
shared in employments; and gradually, after the Restoration, mingled with the mass of Presbyterians;
lying ever since undistinguished in the herd of dissenters.

The Presbyterian merit is of as little weight, when they allege themselves instrumental towards
the King's restoration. The kingdom grew tired with those ridiculous models of government:
First, by a House of Lords and Commons, without a king; then without bishops; afterwards by
a Rump[8] and lords temporal: then by a Rump alone; next by a single person for life, in conjunction
with a council: by agitators: by major-generals: by a new kind of representatives from the
three kingdoms: by the keepers of the liberties of England; with other schemes that have slipped
out of my memory. Cromwell was dead; his son Richard, a weak, ignorant wretch, who gave up
his monarchy much in the same manner with the two usurping kings of Brentford.[9] The people
harassed with taxes and other oppressions; the King's party, then called the Cavaliers began
to recover their spirits. The few nobility scattered through the kingdom, who lived in a most
retired manner, observing the confusion of things, could no longer endure to be ridden by bakers,
cobblers, brewers, and the like, at the head of armies; and plundering everywhere like French
dragoons: The Rump assembly grew despicable to those who had raised them: The city of London,
exhausted by almost twenty years contributing to their own ruin, declared against them. The
Rump, after many deaths and resurrections, was, in the most contemptuous manner, kicked out,
and burned in effigy. The excluded members were let in: a free Parliament called in as legal
a manner as the times would allow; and the King restored.

[Footnote 8: This name was given to that part of the House of Commons which remained after
the moderate men had been expelled by military-force. [S.]]

[Footnote 9: In the "Rehearsal."]

The second claim of Presbyterian merit is founded upon their services against the dangerous
designs of King James the Second; while that prince was using all his endeavours to introduce
Popery, which he openly professed upon his coming to the crown: To this they add, their eminent
services at the Revolution, under the Prince of Orange.

Now, the quantum of Presbyterian merit, during the four years' reign of that weak, bigoted,
and ill-advised prince, as well as at the time of the Revolution, will easily be computed,
by a recourse to a great number of histories, pamphlets, and public papers, printed in those
times, and some afterwards; beside the verbal testimonies of many persons yet alive, who are
old enough to have known and observed the Dissenters' conduct in that critical period.

It is agreed, that upon King Charles the Second's death, soon after his successor had publicly
owned himself a Roman Catholic; he began with his first caresses to the Church party; from
whom having received very cold discouraging answers; he applied to the Presbyterian leaders
and teachers, being advised by the priests and Popish courtiers, that the safest method toward
introducing his own religion, would be by taking off the Sacramental Test, and giving a full
liberty of conscience to all religions, (I suppose, that professed Christianity.) It seems,
that the Presbyterians, in the latter years of King Charles the Second, upon account of certain
plots, (allowed by Bishop Burnet to be genuine) had been, for a short time, forbid to hold
their conventicles: Whereupon, these charitable Christians, out of perfect resentment against
the Church, received the gracious offers of King James with the strongest professions of loyalty,
and highest acknowledgments for his favour. I have seen several of their addresses, full of
thanks and praises, with bitter insinuations of what they had suffered; putting themselves
and the Papists upon the same foot; as fellow-sufferers for conscience; and with the style
of, Our brethren the Roman Catholics. About this time began the project of closeting, (which
has since been practised many times, with more art and success,) where the principal gentlemen
of the kingdom were privately catechised by his Majesty, to know whether, if a new parliament
were called, they would agree to pass an act for repealing the Sacramental Test, and establishing
a general liberty of conscience. But he received so little encouragement, that, despairing
of success, he had recourse to his dispensing power, which the judges had determined to be
part of his prerogative. By colour of this determination, he preferred several Presbyterians,
and many Papists, to civil and military employments. While the king was thus busied, it is
well known, that Monsieur Fagel, the Dutch envoy in London, delivered the opinion of the Prince
and Princess of Orange, concerning the repeal of the Test; whereof the king had sent an account
to their Highnesses, to know how far they approved of it. The substance of their answer, as
reported by Fagel, was this, "That their highnesses thought very well of a liberty of conscience;
but by no means of giving employments to any other persons, than those who were of the National
Church." This opinion was confirmed by several reasons: I cannot be more particular, not having
the paper by me, although it hath been printed in many accounts of those times. And thus much
every moderate churchman would perhaps submit to: But, to trust any part of the civil power
in the hands of those whose interest, inclination, conscience, and former practices have been
wholly turned to introduce a different system of religion and government, hath very few examples
in any Christian state; nor any at all in Holland, the great patroness of universal toleration.

Upon the first intelligence King James received of an intended invasion by the Prince of Orange;
among great numbers of Papists, to increase his troops, he gave commissions to several Presbyterians;
some of whom had been officers under the Rump; and particularly he placed one Richards, a noted
Presbyterian, at the head of a regiment; who had been governor of Wexford in Cromwell's time,
and is often mentioned by Ludlow in his Memoirs. This regiment was raised in England against
the Prince of Orange: the colonel made his son a captain, whom I knew, and who was as zealous
a Presbyterian as his father. However at the time of the prince's landing, the father easily
foreseeing how things would go, went over, like many others to the prince, who continued him
in his regiment; but coming over a year or two after to assist in raising the siege of Derry,
he behaved himself so like either a coward or a traitor, that his regiment was taken from him.

I will now consider the conduct of the Church party, during the whole reign of that unfortunate
king. They were so unanimous against promising to pass an act for repealing the Test, and establishing
a general liberty of conscience; that the king durst not trust a parliament; but encouraged
by the professions of loyalty given him by his Presbyterian friends, went on with his dispensing
power.

The Church clergy, at that time are allowed to have written the best collection of tracts against
Popery that ever appeared in England; which are to this day in the highest esteem. But, upon
the strictest enquiry, I could never hear of above one or two papers published by the Presbyterians
at that time upon the same subject. Seven great prelates (he of Canterbury among the rest)
were sent to the Tower, for presenting a petition, wherein they desired to be excused in not
obeying an illegal command from the King. The Bishop of London, Dr. Compton,[10] was summoned
to answer before the Commissioners for Ecclesiastical Affairs, for not suspending Dr. Sharp[11]
(afterwards Archbishop of York) by the King's command. If the Presbyterians expressed the same
zeal upon any occasion, the instances of it are not as I can find, left upon record, or transmitted
by tradition. The proceedings against Magdalen College in Oxford, for refusing to comply with
the King's mandate for admitting a professed Papist upon their foundation, are a standing proof
of the courage and firmness in religion shewn by that learned society, to the ruin of their
fortunes. The Presbyterians know very well, that I could produce many more instances of the
same kind. But these are enough in so short a paper as I intend at present.

[Footnote 10: Henry Compton (1632-1713), educated at Oxford, was created Bishop of London in
1675. During the Revolution of 1688 he conveyed the Princess Anne from London to Nottingham.
After, he crowned her Queen of England. He was the author of a few works of little importance,
such as the "Treatise on the Holy Communion." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: John Sharp (1644-1714) was educated at Cambridge, and created Archbishop of York
in 1691. He gave great offence to James II. by his preaching against Roman Catholicism. This
is the same Archbishop Sharp who prevented Swift's appointment to a bishopric, by urging that
the author of "A Tale of a Tub" was not a proper person to hold such an office. See note prefixed
to "A Tale of a Tub," vol. i., p. xcvi, of this edition of Swift's Works. [T.S.]]

It is indeed very true, that after King William was settled on the English throne, the Presbyterians
began to appear, and offer their credentials, and demand favour; and the new King having been
originally bred a Calvinist, was desirous enough to make them easy (if that would do it) by
a legal toleration; although in his heart he never bore much affection to that sect; nor designed
to favour them farther than it stood with the present scheme of politics: as I have long since
been assured by the greatest men of Whig principles at that time in England.

It is likewise true, nor will it be denied; that when the King was possessed of the English
crown; and the remainder of the quarrel was left to be decided in this kingdom; the Presbyterians
wisely chose to join with the Protestant army, rather than with that of King James their old
friend, whose affairs were then in a manner desperate. They were wise enough to know, that
this kingdom, divided against itself, could never prevail against the united power of England.
They fought pro aris et focis; for their estates and religion; which latter will never suffer
so much by the Church of England as by that of Rome, where they are counted heretics as well
as we: and consequently they have no other game to play. But, what merit they can build upon
having joined with a Protestant army, under a King they acknowledged, to defend their own liberties
and properties against a Popish enemy under an abdicated King; is, I confess to me absolutely
inconceivable; and I believe will equally be so for ever, to any reasonable man.

When these sectaries were several years ago making the same attempt for abolishing the Test,
many groundless reports were industriously and seasonably spread, of an invasion threatened
by the Pretender on the north of Ireland. At which time the Presbyterians in their pamphlets,
argued in a menacing manner, that if the Pretender should invade those parts of the kingdom,
where the numbers and estates of dissenters chiefly lay; they would sit still, and let us fight
our own battles;[12] since they were to reap no advantage, whichever side should be victors.
If this were the course they intended to take in such a case; I should desire to know, how
they could contrive safely to stand neuters, otherwise than by a compact with the Pretender
and his army, to support their neutrality, and protect them against the forces of the Crown?
This is a necessary supposition; because they must otherwise have inevitably been a prey to
both. However, by this frank declaration, they sufficiently shewed their good-will; and confirmed
the common charge laid at their door; that a Scottish or northern Presbyterian hates our Episcopal
Established Church more than Popery itself. And, the reason for this hatred, is natural enough;
because it is the Church alone, that stands in the way between them and power, which Popery
doth not.

[Footnote 12: See the poem, reprinted by Monck Mason ("History of St. Patrick's," p. 388 note),
entitled:

  "The Grunters' request
  To take off the Test,"

in which the poet advises his "lauds" to "faight y'er ain battel." [T.S.]]

Upon this occasion I am in some doubt, whether the political spreaders of those chimerical
invasions, made a judicious choice in fixing the northern parts of Ireland for that romantic
enterprize. Nor, can I well understand the wisdom of the Presbyterians in countenancing and
confirming those reports. Because it seems to cast a most infamous reflection upon the loyalty
and religious principles of their whole body: For if there had been any truth in the matter,
the consequence must have been allowed, that the Pretender counted upon more assistance from
his father's friends the Presbyterians, by choosing to land in those very parts, where their
number, wealth, and power most prevailed; rather than among those of his own religion. And
therefore, in charity to this sect, I rather incline to believe, that those reports of an invasion
were formed and spread by the race of small politicians, in order to do a seasonable job.

As to Popery in general, which for a thousand years past hath been introducing and multiplying
corruptions both in doctrine and discipline; I look upon it to be the most absurd system of
Christianity professed by any nation. But I cannot apprehend this kingdom to be in much danger
from it. If it hath been thought fit, as some observe, to abate of the law's rigour against
Popery in this kingdom, I am confident it was done for very wise reasons, considering the situation
of affairs abroad at different times, and the interest of the Protestant religion in general.
And as I do not find the least fault in this proceeding; so I do not conceive why a sunk discarded
party, who neither expect nor desire anything more than a quiet life; should under the names
of highflyers, Jacobites, and many other vile appellations, be charged so often in print, and
at common tables, with endeavouring to introduce Popery and the Pretender; while the Papists
abhor them above all other men, on account of severities against their priests in her late
Majesty's reign; when the now disbanded reprobate party was in power. This I was convinced
of some years ago by a long journey into the southern parts; where I had the curiosity to send
for many priests of the parishes I passed through; and, to my great satisfaction found them
everywhere abounding in professions of loyalty to the late King George; for which they gave
me the reasons above-mentioned; at the same time complaining bitterly of the hardships they
suffered under the Queen's last ministry.

I return from this digression to the modest demands of the Presbyterians for a repeal of the
Sacramental Test, as a reward for their merits at the Restoration and the Revolution; which
merits I have fairly represented as well as my memory will allow me. If I have committed any
mistakes they must be of little moment. The facts and principal circumstances are what I have
obtained and digested, from reading the histories of those times, written by each party; and
many thousands have done the same as well as I, who I am sure have in their minds drawn the
same conclusions.

This is the faction, and these the men, who are now resuming their applications, and giving
in their bills of merit to both kingdoms upon two points, which of all others, they have the
least pretensions to offer. I have collected the facts with all possible impartiality, from
the current histories of those times; and have shewn, although very briefly, the gradual proceedings
of those sectaries under the denomination of Puritans, Presbyterians, and Independents, for
about the space of an hundred and eighty years, from the beginning of Queen Elizabeth to this
present time. But, notwithstanding all that can be said, these very schismatics (for such they
are in temporals as well as spirituals) are now again expecting, soliciting, and demanding,
(not without insinuating threats, according to their custom) that the Parliament should fix
them upon an equal foot with the Church established. I would fain know to what branch of the
legislature they can have the forehead to apply. Not to my lords the bishops; who must have
often read, how the predecessors of this very faction, acting upon the same principles, drove
the whole bench out of the house; who were then, and hitherto continue one of the three estates.
Not to the temporal peers, the second of the three estates; who must have heard, that, immediately
after those rebellious fanatics had murdered their king, they voted a House of Lords to be
useless and dangerous, and would let them sit no longer, otherwise than when elected as commoners:
Not to the House of Commons; who must have heard, that in those fanatic times the Presbyterian
and Independent commanders in the army, by military power, expelled all the moderate men out
of the house, and left a Rump to govern the nation. Lastly, not to the Crown, which those very
saints destined to rule the earth, trampled under their feet, and then in cold blood murdered
the blessed wearer.

But, the session now approaching, and a clan of dissenting teachers being come up to town from
their northern headquarters, accompanied by many of their elders and agents, and supported
by a general contribution, to solicit their establishment, with a capacity of holding all military
as well as civil employments; I think it high time, that this paper should see the light. However,
I cannot conclude without freely confessing, that if the Presbyterians should obtain their
ends, I could not be sorry to find them mistaken in the point which they have most at heart
by the repeal of the Test; I mean the benefit of employments. For, after all, what assurance
can a Scottish northern dissenter, born on Irish ground, have, that he shall be treated with
as much favour as a true Scot born beyond the Tweed?

I am ready enough to believe that all I have said will avail but little. I have the common
excuse of other men, when I think myself bound by all religious and civil ties, to discharge
my conscience, and to warn my countrymen upon this important occasion. It is true, the advocates
for this scheme promise a new world, after this blessed work shall be completed: that all animosities
and faction must immediately drop; that the only distinction in this kingdom will then be of
Papist and Protestant. For, as to Whig and Tory, High Church and Low Church, Jacobite and Hanoverian,
Court and Country party, English and Irish interests, Dissenters and Conformists, New Light
and Old Light, Anabaptist and Independent, Quaker and Muggletonian, they will all meet and
jumble together into a perfect harmony, at the sessions and assizes, on the bench and in the
revenues; and upon the whole, in all civil and military trust, not excepting the great councils
of the nation. For it is wisely argued thus, that a kingdom being no more than a larger knot
of friends met together, it is against the rules of good manners to shut any person out of
the company, except the Papists; who profess themselves of another club.

I am at a loss to know what arts the Presbyterian sect intends to use, in convincing the world
of their loyalty to kingly government; which long before the prevalence, or even the birth
of their independent rivals, as soon as the King's forces were overcome, declared their principles
to be against monarchy, as well as Episcopacy and the House of Lords, even till the King was
restored: At which event, although they were forced to submit to the present power, yet I have
not heard that they did ever, to this day, renounce any one principle by which their predecessors
then acted; yet this they have been challenged to do, or at least to shew that others have
done it for them, by a certain doctor,[13] who, as I am told, has much employed his pen in
the like disputes. I own, they will be ready enough to insinuate themselves into any government:
But, if they mean to be honest and upright, they will and must endeavour by all means, which
they shall think lawful, to introduce and establish their own scheme of religion, as nearest
approaching to the word of God, by casting out all superstitious ceremonies, ecclesiastical
titles, habits, distinctions, and superiorities, as rags of Popery; in order to a thorough
reformation; and, as in charity bound, to promote the salvation of their countrymen: wishing
with St. Paul, that the whole kingdom were as they are. But what assurance will they please
to give, that when their sect shall become the national established worship, they will treat
Us Dissenters as we have treated them? Was this their course of proceeding during the dominion
of the saints? Were not all the remainders of the Episcopal Church in those days, especially
the clergy, under a persecution for above a dozen years, equal to that of the primitive Christians
under heathen emperors? That this proceeding was suitable to their principles, is known enough;
for many of their preachers then writ books expressly against allowing any liberty of conscience,
in a religion different from their own; producing many arguments to prove that opinion; and
among the rest one frequently insisted on; that allowing such a liberty would be to establish
iniquity by a law: Many of these writings are yet to be seen;[14] and I hear, have been quoted
by the doctor above mentioned.

[Footnote 13: Dr. Tisdal, in a tract entitled, "The Case of the Sacramental Test stated and
argued." Tisdal died 4th June, 1736. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 14: See many hundred quotations to prove this, in the treatise called "Scotch Presbyterian
Eloquence." [Note in Faulkner's edition, 1738.]]

As to their great objection of prostituting that holy institution, the blessed Sacrament, by
way of a test before admittance into any employment; I ask, whether they would not be content
to receive it after their own manner, for the office of a judge, for that of a commissioner
in the revenue, for a regiment of horse, or to be a lord justice? I believe they would scruple
it as little, as a long grace before and after dinner; which they can say without bending a
knee; for, as I have been told, their manner of taking bread and wine in their conventicles,
is performed with little more solemnity than at their common meals. And, therefore, since they
look upon our practice in receiving the elements, to be idolatrous; they neither can, nor ought,
in conscience, to allow us that liberty, otherwise than by connivance, and a bare toleration,
like what is permitted to the Papists. But, lest we should offend them, I am ready to change
this test for another; although, I am afraid, that sanctified reason is, by no means, the point
where the difficulty pinches; and only offered by pretended churchmen, as if they could be
content with our believing, that the impiety and profanation of making the Sacrament a test,
were the only objection. I therefore propose, that before the present law be repealed, another
may be enacted; that no man shall receive any employment, before he swears himself to be a
true member of the Church of Ireland, in doctrine and discipline, &c., and, that he will never
frequent, or communicate with any other form of worship. It shall likewise be further enacted,
that whoever offends, &c., shall be fined five hundred pounds, imprisoned for a year and a
day, and rendered incapable of all public trust for ever. Otherwise, I do insist that those
pious, indulgent, external professors of our national religion, shall either give up that fallacious
hypocritical reason for taking off the Test; or freely confess, that they desire to have a
gate wide open for every sect, without any test at all, except that of swearing loyalty to
the King: Which, however, considering their principles, with regard to monarchy yet unrenounced,
might, if they would please to look deep enough into their own hearts, prove a more bitter
test than any other that the law hath yet invented.

For, from the first time that these sectaries appeared in the world, it hath been always found,
by their whole proceeding, that they professed an utter hatred to kingly government. I can
recollect, at present, three civil establishments, where Calvinists, and some other reformers
who rejected Episcopacy, possess the supreme power; and, these are all republics; I mean Holland,
Geneva, and the reformed Swiss cantons. I do not say this in diminution, or disgrace to commonwealths;
wherein, I confess, I have much altered many opinions under which I was educated, having been
led by some observation, long experience, and a thorough detestation for the corruptions of
mankind: Insomuch, that I am now justly liable to the censure of Hobbes, who complains, that
the youth of England imbibe ill opinions, from reading the histories of Ancient Greece and
Rome, those renowned scenes of liberty and every virtue.

But, as to monarchs; who must be supposed well to study and understand their own interest;
they will best consider, whether those people, who in all their actions, preachings, and writings,
have openly declared themselves against regal power, are to be safely placed in an equal degree
of favour and trust with those who have been always found the true and only friends to the
English establishment. From which consideration, I could have added one more article to my
new test, if I had thought it worth my time.

I have been assured by some persons who were present, that several of these dissenting teachers,
upon their first arrival hither to solicit the repeal of the Test, were pleased to express
their gratitude, by publicly drinking the healths of certain eminent patrons, whom they pretend
to have found among us; if this be true, and that the Test must be delivered up by the very
commanders appointed to defend it, the affair is already, in effect, at an end.

NOTE.

This tract occupies Nos. iii. and iv. of a periodical paper called "The Correspondent," originally
printed at Dublin "by James Hoey in Skinner-Row, 1733." The text here given is that of the
original "Correspondent"; that given by Scott and Nichols is evidently taken from the London
reprint. It will be seen that the matter as it was originally printed contains much more than
was afterwards reprinted. I have indicated in footnotes where Scott's omissions occur. The
title of the periodical runs: "The Correspondent, No. iii. [No. iv.] Humbly inscribed to the
Conforming Nobility and Gentry of Ireland." Nos. i. and ii. dealt with "Old and New Light Presbyterians";
but these are not by Swift. In Nichols's edition this pamphlet appears in the second volume
of the "Supplement to Dr. Swift's Works," 1779, p. 307. See note to the previous pamphlet,
where the question of the date of the first publication of this tract is discussed. It may
be, as Monck Mason suggests ("History of St. Patrick's," p. 389, note h), that a separate and
second edition of this "Narrative" was likewise printed, of the same size as "The Presbyterians'
Plea," and bound up, occasionally with that pamphlet; but such an edition I have never seen.
The only reprint of the time examined, is that by A. Dodd, of Temple Bar, affixed to the second
London edition of "The Presbyterians' Plea of Merit," and the date of which may be put down
to 1734.

My intention is in this and some following "Correspondents," to vindicate the Test Act, from
the insolent aspersions which are thrown upon it, and to answer objections, which are raised
against it, particularly by an anonymous author, in a paper entitled, "The Nature and Consequence
of the Sacramental Test considered," &c., printed anno 1731, upon the opening of the last session
of parliament, and now republished.

When the oath of supremacy was repealed which had been the Church's great security since the
second of Queen Elizabeth, against both Papists and Presbyterians, who equally refused it,
I presume it is no secret now to tell the reader, that the repeal of that oath opened a sluice
and let in such a current of dissenters into some of our corporations, as bore down all before
them.

[Footnote 1: From the beginning of this paragraph to the word "in" is omitted in the editions
issued by Scott and Nichols. The words "A Narrative... Sacramental Test" are used by Scott
as part of the sub-title of the tract; but he adds the date, 1731. This is a mistake, since
"The Correspondent" appeared in 1733; and if it did appear in the second edition of "The Plea,"
that edition was published either in the same or in the following year. [T.S.]]

Although the Sacramental Test had been for a considerable time in force in England, yet that
law did not reach Ireland, where the Church was more oppressed by dissenters; and where her
most sanguine friends were glad to compound, to preserve what legal security she had left,
rather than to attempt any new, or even to recover what she had lost: And in truth they had
no reason to expect it, at a time when the dissenters had the interest to have a motion made
and debated in parliament, that there might be a temporary repeal of all the penal laws against
them, and when they were so flushed with the conquest they had made in some corporations, as
to reject all overtures of a toleration; and to that end, had employed Mr. Boyse[2] to write
against it with the utmost contempt, calling it "a stone instead of bread; a serpent instead
of a fish."

[Footnote 2: In his note Scott calls him "Samuel" Boyse, but he is distinctly mentioned further
on in the tract as "Jo: Boyse." The Rev. Joseph Boyse was a native of Leeds, who had settled
in Dublin in 1683 as joint-pastor with Dr. Daniel Williams. He died in poverty in 1728; and
in the same year his works were published in two folio volumes. His son, Samuel Boyse, the
poet, died in 1749. [T.S.]]

When the Church was in this situation, the clause of the Sacramental Test was happily sent
over from England, tacked to the Popery Bill, which alarmed the whole body of the dissenters
to that degree, that their managers began to ply with the greatest artifice, and industry,
to prevent its passing into a law. But (to the honour of that parliament be it spoken), the
whole body of both Lords and Commons (some few excepted) passed the clause with great readiness,
and defended it afterwards with as great resolution.

The immediate consequence of this law was the recovery of several corporations, which the conformists
had given to the dissenters, and the preservation of others, to which the "enterprising people"
had made very bold and quick approaches.

It was hoped that this signal defeat would have discouraged the dissenters from any further
attempts against a law, which had so unanimously passed both houses: But the contrary soon
appeared. For, upon meeting of the Parliament, held by the Earl of Pembroke,[3] they quickly
reassumed their wonted courage and confidence, and made no doubt, but they should either procure
an absolute repeal thereof, or get it so far relaxed, as that they might be admitted to offices
of military trust: To this, they apprehended themselves encouraged by a paragraph in his Excellency's
speech to both Houses (which they applied to themselves) which was, "That the Queen would be
glad of any expedient, for strengthening the interests of her Protestant subjects of Ireland."

[Footnote 3: It will be remembered that the earl's viceroyalty commenced April 7th, 1707. It
was in his train that Swift came to England in that year.[T.S.]]

The advocates for the dissenters immediately took hold of this handle, and in order to prepare
the way for this expedient, insisted boldly upon their merit and loyalty, charged the Church
with persecution, and extolled their signal behaviour in the late Revolution, to that degree,
as if by their signal prowess, they had saved the nation.

But all this, was only to prepare the way for the grand engine, which was forming to beat down
this law; and that was their expedient addresses.

The first of this kind was, from a provincial synod of the northern dissenters, beginning with
high encomiums upon themselves, and as high demands from the public, "for their untainted loyalty
in all turns of government," which they said, was "the natural consequence of their known principles";
expressions, which, had they been applied to them by their adversaries, must have been understood
as spoken ironically, and indeed to have been the greatest sarcasm imaginable upon them; especially,
when we consider the insolent treatment given to her Majesty in the very same address; for
immediately after they pass this compliment upon themselves, they tell her Majesty, they deeply
regret the Sacramental Test; and frankly declared, that neither the gentlemen, nor people of
their persuasion, could (they must mean would) serve her, whatever exigencies might arise,
unless that law was repealed.

The managers for the kirk, following this precedent, endeavoured to obtain addresses to the
same purpose from the corporations, and though they proved unsuccessful in most, they procured
them from several of our most considerable conforming corporations; and that too at a critical
juncture, when numbers of Scotch Presbyterians, who had deserved well in the affair of the
Union, and could not be rewarded in England (where the Test Act was in force) stood ready to
overrun our preferments as soon as the Test should be repealed in Ireland.

But after all when it came to a decisive trial in the House of Commons, the dissenters were
defeated.

When the managers found the House of Commons could not be brought into that scheme of an expedient,
to be offered by them; their refinement upon this, was, to move for an address, "That the House
would accept of an expedient from her Majesty," but this also was rejected; for by this project,
the managers would have led the Queen into this dilemma, either to disoblige the whole body
of the dissenters, by refusing to name the expedient, or else to give up the conformists to
the insults and encroachments of the dissenters, by the repeal of that law, which was declared
by the House of Lords, to be the great security of the Established Church, and of the English
interest of Ireland.

The next attempt they made against the Test was during the government of Lord Wharton.[4]

[Footnote 4: Wharton was appointed Lord Lieutenant on November 25th, 1708. This Wharton is
the Thomas, Lord Wharton, against whom Swift wrote one of his bitterest and most personal attacks.
He was the eldest son of Philip, Lord Wharton, and was created a marquis by George I. He died
April 12th, 1715. The ballad of "Lillibullero" is attributed to him. [T.S.]]

The dissenters seemed more resolute now than ever, to have the Test repealed, especially when
his Excellency had declared from the throne, "that they were neither to be persecuted nor molested."
For they who had all along called the Test Act a persecution, might reasonably conclude that
grievance would be removed; when they were told by the chief governor, that they were not to
be even "molested." But to their great confusion, they were soon undeceived, when they found
upon trial, that the House of Commons, would not bear the least motion towards it.

Their movements to repeal the Test Act being stopped this way; the managers were obliged to
take several other ways to come at it: And at the time, that some pretended to soothe, others
seemed to threaten even the legislature, with a view, (as must be presumed) that those, whom
they could not cajole, might be frightened into it.[5]

[Footnote 5: Scott omits the words from "with a view" to the end of the paragraph. [T.S.]]

There happened about the time, when the project of the expedient was on foot, an excellent
occasion, to express their resentments against this law, and that was, when great numbers of
them refused the oath of allegiance, and to oppose the Pretender; insisting upon a repeal of
the Test Act, as the condition of their arming in defence of their Queen and country.

The government was not reduced to such straits, as to submit to that condition; and the Test
stood firm, in spite of both the dissenters and the Pretender, until the latter was driven
from our coasts: And then, one would have thought the hopes of the former, would have vanished
with him.

But it proved quite contrary: For those sons of the earth, rebounding with fresh vigour from
their falls, recovered new strength and spirit from every defeat, and the next attempt was
bolder (considering the circumstances they were in) than any they had made before.

The case was this: The House of Lords of Ireland had accused them to the Queen of several illegal
practices, which highly concerned the safety of our constitution, both in church and state:
The particulars of which charge, were summed up in a representation from the Lords to this effect:

"That they (the dissenters) had opposed and persecuted the conformists, in those parts where
their power prevailed, had invaded their congregations, propagated their schism in places where
it had not the least footing formerly; that they were protected from a legal prosecution by
a noli prosequi in the case of Drogheda."

"That they refused to take conforming apprentices, and confined trade among themselves, exclusive
of the conformists."

"That in their illegal assemblies they had prosecuted and censured their people for being married
according to law."

"That they have thrown public and scandalous reflections upon the Episcopal order, and upon
our laws, particularly the Sacramental Test, and had misapplied the royal bounty of £1,200
per annum, in propagating their schism, and undermining the Church: And had exercised an illegal
jurisdiction in their Presbyteries and Synods," &c.

To this representation of the Lords, the dissenters remonstrate in an address to the Queen,
or rather an appeal to their own people, in which, although it is evident, they were conscious
of those crimes whereof they stood accused, as appears by the evasions they make to this high
charge. Yet even under these circumstances (such was their modesty) they pressed for a repeal
of the Test Act, by the modest appellation of a grievance and odious mark of infamy, &c. Of
which more hereafter. There is one particular in another address which I cannot omit. The House
of Lords in their representation, had accused one dissenting teacher in particular (well known
to Mr. Boyse). The charge was in these words:

"Nor has the legislature itself escaped the censure of a bold author of theirs, who has published
in print, that the Sacramental Test is only an engine to advance a state faction, and to debase
religion, to serve base and unworthy purposes."

To this, Mr. Boyse answers, in an address to the Queen, in the year 1712, subscribed only by
himself, and five more dissenting teachers, in these words.

"As to this part of their Lordships' complaint, we beg leave to lay before your Majesty the
words of that author, which are these.

"'Nor can we altogether excuse those, who turn the holy Eucharist into an engine, to advance
a state faction, and endeavour to confine the communion table of our Lord, by their arbitrary
enclosures to a party; religion is thereby debased to serve mean and unworthy purposes.' We
humbly conceive that the author in that passage, makes no mention of the legislature at all,
&c., and we cannot omit on this occasion, to regret it, as the great unhappiness of this kingdom,
that dissenters should now be disabled from concurring in the defence of it, in any future
exigency and danger, and should have the same infamy put upon them with the Irish Papists.

"We therefore humbly hope, that your Majesty shall consider, how little real grounds there
are for those complaints made by their Lordships."

What a mixture of impudence and prevarication is this! That one dissenting teacher accused
to his prince of having censured the legislature, should presume, backed only by five more
of the same quality and profession, to transcribe the guilty paragraph, and (to secure his
meaning from all possibility of being mistaken,) annex another to it; wherein, they rail at
that very law, for which he in so audacious a manner censured the Queen and Parliament, and
at the same time should expect to be acquitted by her Majesty, because he had not mentioned
the word "legislature": 'Tis true the word legislature is not expressed in that paragraph;
but let Mr. Boyse[6] say, what other power but the legislature, could in this sense, "turn
the holy Eucharist into an engine to advance a state faction, or confine offices of trust,
or the communion table of our Lord, by their arbitrary enclosures, to a party." It is plain
he can from his principles intend no others, but the legislators of the Sacramental Test; though
at the same time I freely own, that this is a vile description of them: For neither have they
by this law, made the Sacramental Test an engine to advance, but rather to depress a state
faction, nor have they made any arbitrary enclosures, of the communion table of our Lord, since
as many as please, may receive the Sacrament with us in our churches; and those who will not,
may freely, as before, receive it in their separate congregations: Nor in the last place, is
religion hereby debased, to serve mean and unworthy purposes; nor is it any more than all lawgivers
do, by enjoining an oath of allegiance, and making that a religious test. For an oath is an
act of religious worship as well as the Eucharist.

[Footnote 6: Scott remarks that "Mr. Boyse is here and in other places, spoken of as alive,
which was the case, I presume, when the tract first appeared in 'The Correspondent.'" The tract,
however, was printed in the periodical in 1733, and Boyse died in 1728. It may be that when
Swift first wrote "The Narrative," Mr. Boyse was alive; in that case its date must be put down
to an earlier year than either 1733 or even 1731. Or it may be that the style of so referring
to Boyse was used for an argumentative effect, to appeal to any reader who was in sympathy
with Boyse's opinions. [T.S.]]

Upon the whole, is not this an instance of prodigious boldness in Mr. Boyse, backed with only
five dissenting teachers, thus to recriminate upon the Irish House of Lords (as they were pleased
to call them in the title of their printed address,) and almost to insist with her Majesty,
upon the repeal of a law, which she had stamped with her royal authority, but a few years before?

The[7] next instance, of the resolution of the dissenters, against this law, was the attempt
made during the government of the Duke of Shrewsbury.[8]

[Footnote 7: From this paragraph to the end is taken from "The Correspondent," No. iv. The
text as given by Scott is considerably altered from that which appeared in the periodical. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: From September, 1713, until the Queen's death in 1714. [T.S.]]

This attack was by the whole compacted body, of their teachers and elders, with a formidable
engine, called a "representation of grievances," in which, after they had reviled the Test
Act, with the same odious appellations, and insisted upon the same insolent arguments, for
the repeal thereof, which they had formerly urged to the Queen: They expressed themselves to
his Grace in these words:

"We beg leave to say, that those persons must be inexcusable, and chargeable, with all the
bad consequences that may follow, who in such a kingdom as this, disable, disgrace, and divide
Protestants; a thing that ought not to be done at any time, or in any place, much less than
in this," &c.

Is it possible to conceive any thing more provoking than this humble supplication of these
remonstrators? Does not this sound like a demand of the repeal of the Test, at the peril of
those, who dare refuse it? Is it not an application with a hat in one hand, and a sword in
the other, and that too, in the style of a King of Ulster, to a King of Connaught, --"Repeal
the Test, or if you don't........."

But to proceed in this narrative: Notwithstanding the defeat of the dissenters in England,
in their late attempt against the Test, their brethren in Ireland, are so far from being discouraged,
that they seem now to conceive greater hopes of having it repealed here, than ever.[9] What
grounds they have for these hopes, was a secret to us, and I presume, to themselves; however
private whispers begin now to grow into general rumours, and their managers proceed with great
art and assiduity, from feeling of pulses, to telling of noses.

[Footnote 9: From this word to the end of this paragraph is omitted by Scott.[T.S.]]

In order to prepare necessaries, and furnish topics for this attempt, there was a paper printed
upon the opening of last session, and now republished; entitled, "The Nature and Consequences
of the Sacramental Test considered, with reasons humbly offered for the Repeal thereof."[10]

[Footnote 10: This pamphlet was reprinted in London in 1732. See note prefixed to "The Presbyterians'
Plea of Merit" [T.S.]]

It is not my intention, to follow this author, through all the mazes and windings of his reasoning
upon this subject, which (in truth) seem such incoherent shreds, that it is impossible to tie
them together; and therefore, what I purpose is, to answer such objections to the Test, as
are advanced either by this author, or any other which have any appearance of reason, or plausibility.

I know it is not prudent to despise an adversary, nor fair to prepossess readers, before I
show this bold and insolent writer, in his proper figure and dress; and therefore, however
I may take him to be a feeble advocate for the repeal of the Test, in point of reasoning, yet
I freely allow him to be a most resolute champion in point of courage, who has, with such intrepidity,
attacked, not only the first enactors of this law, but all such, who shall continue it, by
giving their negatives to a repeal. I will in this "Correspondent" only transcribe a few quotations
from this author, to shew the gallantry of this aggressor.

Page the 19th[11] he says: "the truth is the imposition of the Test, and continuing it in such
a state of the kingdom, appears (at first sight,) so great an absurdity in politics, as can
never be accounted for."

[Footnote 11: Page 23 in edition London, 1732. [T.S.]]

Who are these absurd politicians? Who first passed, and secondly continue the Sacramental Test,
in all the preceding attempts of the Dissenters to repeal it? Are they not the majority of
both Houses of Parliament?[12]

[Footnote 12: Omitted by Scott in his edition, 1824. [T.S.]]

But to strengthen his reflections, page 26,[13] he gives the whole legislature to understand,
that continuing the Test, does not become the wisdom, and justice of the legislature, under
the pretence of its being for the advantage of the state, when it is really prejudicial to
it; and further tells us, it infringes on the indisputable rights of the dissenters.

[Footnote 13: Pp. 32-33 in London reprint. Scott places passages here in quotation marks, the
original in "The Correspondent" has no such marks, nor are the passages quoted verbatim from
the pamphlet referred to.[T.S.]]

Page, the 57th,[14] he says, "The gentlemen of the House of Commons, who framed the bill, to
prevent the farther growth of Popery, instead of approving the Test clause which was inserted,
publicly declared their dislike to it, and their resolution to take the first opportunity of
repealing it, though at that time they unwillingly passed it, rather than lose a bill they
were so fond of. This resolution has not been as yet fulfilled, for what reasons, our worthy
patriots themselves know best."

[Footnote 14: P. 71 in London reprint [T.S.]]

I should be glad this author would inform us, who, and how many of those members joined in
this resolution, to repeal the Test; or where that resolution is to be found, which he mentions
twice in the same paragraph; surely not in the books of the House of Commons!

If not, suppose some few gentlemen in the House of Commons, and to be sure very few they were,
who publicly declared their dislike to it, or entered into any resolution; this, I think, he
should have explained, and not insinuated so gross a reflection on a great majority of the
House of Commons, who first passed this law, and have ever since opposed all attempts to repeal
it; these are the gentleman whom, in sarcasm and irony, he is pleased to call the "worthy,"
that is, the unworthy patriots themselves.

But to mention no more, he concludes his notable piece, with these remarkable words, pages
62-63.[15]

[Footnote 15: P. 79 of London reprint. [T.S.]]

"Thus it appears, with regard to the Protestant succession, which has now happily taken place,
how reasonable it is to repeal the Sacramental Test, and that granting that favour to the Dissenters,"
which, by the way, cannot be granted but by parliament; "can be disagreeable to none, who have
a just sense of the many blessings we enjoy, by the Protestant succession, in his Majesty's
royal family."

I will not trouble the reader with any more quotations, to the same purpose, out of this libel,
for so I must now call it, but take leave to make some general observations on those paragraphs
I have mentioned.

[Footnote: This paragraph is omitted by Scott. [T.S.]]

I conceive, it will be readily allowed, that in all applications, either from any body of men,
or from any particular subject to the legislature, or any branch thereof, we are to take the
highest encomiums as purely complimental; if there be the least insinuation of disrespect or
reflection therein, in such cases I say, you are to take the compliments in the lowest sense,
but all the reflections in the highest sense the expressions can bear; inasmuch as, the first
may be presumed matter of form, the latter must be matter of resentment.

[Footnote: This paragraph is much curtailed by Scott, who combines it with the next paragraph
of the present text. [T.S.]]

Now, if we apply this observation, to what this bold adventurer has said, with respect to the
legislators, of the Sacramental Test; Does he not directly and plainly charge them with injustice,
imprudence, gross absurdity and Jacobitism? Let the most prejudiced reader that is not pre-determined
against conviction, say, whether this libeller of the parliament, has not drawn up a high charge
against the makers and continuers of this law.

It is readily allowed, that this has been the old style of these champions, who have attacked
the Test, as in the instances before mentioned, with this difference, that he descends lower
in his charge, and has been more particular than any of his brethren.

[Footnote: This paragraph is omitted by Scott. [T.S.]]

Notwithstanding my resentment, which to be sure, he does not value, I would be sorry he should
bring upon himself the resentment of those he has been so free with, and I cannot help advising
him, to take all possible care, and use all effectual means, to conjure the printer, corrector,
and publisher of this libel to secrecy; that however the author may be suspected, he may not
be discovered. Upon the whole, is not this author, justly to be reputed a defamer, till he
produces instances wherein the conforming nobility and gentry of Ireland, have shown their
disaffection to the succession of the illustrious House of Hanover?

Did they ever refuse the oath of abjuration, or support any conforming nonjuring teachers in
their congregations? Did ever any conforming gentlemen, or common people, refuse to be arrayed,
when the militia was raised, upon the invasion of the Pretender? Did any of them ever shew
the least reluctance, or make any exception against their officers, whether they were Dissenters
or Churchmen?

It may be said, that from these insinuations, I would have it understood, that the dissenters
encouraged some of their teachers, who refused the oath of abjuration; and that even in the
article of danger, when the Pretender made his attempt in Scotland, our northern Presbyterians
shewed great reluctance in taking arms, upon the array of militia.

I freely own it is my intention; and I must affirm both facts to be true, however they have
the assurance to deny it.

What can be more notorious, than the protection, countenance, and support, which was continued
to Riddall, McBride, and McCrackan,[16] who absolutely refused the oath of abjuration; and
yet were continued to teach in their congregations, after they returned from Scotland, when
a prosecution was directed, and a council in criminal causes, was sent down to the county of
Antrim to prosecute them.

[Footnote 16: Riddall, McBride, and McCrackan were three Presbyterian clergymen who refused
to take the oath of abjuring the Pretender. Of Riddall and McCrackan little is known; but John
McBride (1651?-1718) (according to the writer in the "Dictionary of National Biography") was
born in Ulster, and graduated at Glasgow. He was a strong advocate of the Hanoverian succession,
but avoided the oath of abjuration, in 1703, by retiring to Glasgow. He returned to Belfast
in 1713, and died there. His humorous excuse for non-abjuration is recorded by the writer of
the article in the Dictionary, and is worth repeating: "Once upon a time there was a bearn,
that cou'd not be persuaded to bann the de'el because he did not know but he might soon come
into his clutches." [T.S.]]

With respect to the parliament; did ever any House of Commons shew greater alacrity in raising
money, and equipping ships, in defence of the King, than the last House did upon the expected
invasion of the Pretender? And did ever any parliament give money with greater unanimity, for
the support of the Crown, than the present has done, whatever the wants of their private families
might be? And must a very great majority of those persons, be branded with the infamous aspersion
of disaffection to the illustrious House of Hanover, should they refuse to give their voices
for the repeal of the Test?

I am fully persuaded that this author, and his fellow-labourers, do not believe one word of
this heavy charge; but their present circumstances are such, that they must run all hazards.

In many places their congregations are sub-divided, and have chosen an Old and New Light teacher,
and consequently those stipends must support two, which were enjoyed by one before.[17]

[Footnote 17: This paragraph is omitted by Scott. [T.S.]]

A great number of the nonconforming gentlemen daily leave them, though they have not made any
convert to their persuasion, among the conforming gentlemen of fortune; many who were nonconformists
themselves, and many men whose parents were elders, or rigid nonconformists, are now constant
communicants, and justices of peace in their several counties; insomuch, that it is highly
probable, should the Test continue twenty years longer, there would not be a gentleman left
to solicit a repeal.

I shall hereafter take occasion to shew, how inconsiderable they are, for their numbers and
fortunes, who can be served or obliged by this repeal, which number is daily lessening.

The dissenting teachers are sufficiently aware, that the general conformity of the gentlemen,
will be followed, by the conformity of numbers of the people; and should it not be so, that
they will be but poorly supported by them; that by the continuance of the Test, "their craft
will be in danger to be set at nought," and in all probability, will end in a general conformity
of the Presbyterians to the Established Church.

So that, they have the strongest reasons in the world, to press for the repeal of the Test;
but those reasons, must have equal force for the continuance of it, with all that wish the
peace of the Church and State, and would not have us torn in pieces, with endless and causeless
divisions.

There is one short passage more, I had like to have omitted, which our author leaves as a sting
in the tail of his libel; his words are these, page 59th.[18]

[Footnote 18: P. 74 in London reprint. [T.S.]]

"The truth is, no one party of a religious denomination, in Britain or Ireland, were so united,
as they, (the dissenters) indeed, no one, but they, in an inviolable attachment to the Protestant
succession." To detect the folly of this assertion, I subjoin the following letter from a person
of known integrity, and inviolably attached to the Protestant succession, as any dissenter
in the kingdom, I mean Mr. Warreng of Warrengstown, then a member of parliament, and commissioner
of array, in the county of Down, upon the expected invasion of the Pretender.

This letter was writ in a short time after the array, of the militia, for the truth of which
I refer to Mr. Warreng himself.

"Sir,

"That I may fulfil your desire, by giving you an account, how the dissenters in my neighbourhood
behaved themselves, when we were threatened with an invasion of the Pretender. Be pleased to
know, that upon an alarm given of his being landed near Derry, none were more zealous and ready
in setting watch and keeping guard, than they, to prevent such disorders, as might happen at
that time, by ill-designing persons, passing through, and disturbing the peace of the country.

"But when the government thought fit, to have the kingdom arrayed, and sent commissioners into
these parts, some time after it appeared, that the dissenters had, by that time, been otherwise
instructed, for several who were so forward before, behaved themselves after a very different
manner, some refusing, and others with reluctancy, appearing upon the array, to be enlisted,
and serve in the militia.

"This behaviour surprised me so much, that I took occasion to discourse several of them, over
whom, I thought I had as much influence, as any other person, and found them upon the common
argument, of having their hands tied up by a late act of parliament, &c. Whereupon I took some
pains to shew the act to them, and wherein they were mistaken. I further pressed their concurrence
with us, in procuring the common peace and security of our country, and though they seemed
convinced by what I said, yet I was given to understand, their behaviour was according to the
sentiments of some persons, whom they thought themselves obliged to observe, or be directed
by, &c."

*****       *****       *****       *****       *****

QUAERIES

WROTE BY

DR. J. SWIFT, IN THE YEAR 1732.

[RELATING TO THE SACRAMENTAL TEST.]

    Very proper to be read (at this Time) by every Member of the
    Established Church.

NOTE.

The text of this tract is based on that of the original broadside, collated with those given
by Faulkner and Scott. These queries seem to be based on those by Swift, though they are not
quite the same.

[T.S.]

  QUAERIES WROTE BY DR. J. SWIFT,
  IN THE YEAR 1732.

QUERY.

Whether hatred and violence between parties in a state be not more inflamed by different views
of interest, than by the greater or lesser differences between them, either in religion or
government?

Whether it be any part of the question, at this time, which of the two religions is worse,
Popery, or Fanaticism; or not rather, which of the two, (having both the same good will) is
in the hopefullest condition to ruin the Church?

Whether the sectaries, whenever they come to prevail, will not ruin the Church as infallibly
and effectually as the Papists?

Whether the prevailing sectaries could allow liberty of conscience to Dissenters, without belying
all their former practice, and almost all their former writings?

Whether many hundred thousand Scotch Presbyterians, are not full as virulent against the Episcopal
Church, as they are against the Papists; or, as they would have us think, the Papists are against
them?

Whether the Dutch, who are most distinguished for allowing liberty of conscience, do ever admit
any persons, who profess a different scheme of worship from their own, into civil employments;
although they may be forced by the nature of their government, to receive mercenary troops
of all religions?

Whether the Dissenters ever pretended, until of late years, to desire more than a bare toleration?

Whether, if it be true, what a sorry pamphleteer asserts, who lately writ for repealing the
Test, that the Dissenters in this kingdom are equally numerous with the Churchmen: It would
not be a necessary point of prudence, by all proper and lawful means to prevent their further
increase?

The great argument given by those whom they call Low Church men, to justify the large tolerations
allowed to Dissenters, hath been; that by such indulgencies, the rancour of those sectaries
would gradually wear off, many of them would come over to us, and their parties, in a little
time, crumble to nothing.

QUERY.

If what the above pamphleteer asserts, that the sectaries, are in equal numbers with conformists,
it doth not clearly follow, that those repeated tolerations, have operated directly contrary
to what those Low Church politicians pretended to foresee and expect.

Whether any clergyman, however dignified or distinguished, if he think his own profession most
agreeable to Holy Scriptures, and the primitive Church, can really wish in his heart, that
all sectaries should be upon an equal foot with the Churchmen, in the point of civil power
and employments?

Whether Episcopacy, which is held by the Church to be a divine and apostolic institution, be
not a fundamental point of religion, particularly in that essential one of conferring holy orders?

Whether, by necessary consequences, the several expedients among the sectaries to constitute
their teachers, are not absolutely null and void?

Whether the sectaries will ever agree to accept ordination only from bishops?

Whether the bishops and clergy will be content to give up Episcopacy, as a point indifferent,
without which the Church can well subsist?

Whether that great tenderness towards sectaries, which now so much prevails, be chiefly owing
to the fears of Popery, or to that spirit of atheism, deism, scepticism, and universal immorality,
which all good men so much lament?

Granting Popery to have many more errors in religion than any one branch of the sectaries;
let us examine the actions of both, as they have each affected the peace of these kingdoms,
with allowance for the short time which the sectaries had to act in, who are in a manner but
of yesterday. The Papists in the time of King James II. used all endeavours to establish their
superstition; wherein they failed, by the united power of English Church protestants, with
the Prince of Orange's assistance. But it cannot be asserted, that these bigotted Papists had
the least design to depose or murder their King, much less to abolish kingly government; nor
was it their interest or inclination to attempt either.

On the other side the Puritans, who had almost from the beginning of Queen Elizabeth's reign,
been a perpetual thorn in the Church's side, joining with the Scotch enthusiasts, in the time
of King Charles the First, were the principal cause of the Irish rebellion and massacre, by
distressing that Prince, and making it impossible for him to send over timely succours. And,
after that pious Prince had satisfied his Parliament in every single point to be complained
of; the same sectaries by poisoning the minds and affections of the people, with the most false
and wicked representations of their King, were able, in the compass of a few years, to embroil
the three nations in a bloody rebellion, at the expense of many thousand lives; to turn the
kingly power into anarchy; or murder their Prince in the face of the world, and (in their own
style) to destroy the Church root and branch.

The account therefore stands thus. The Papists aimed at one pernicious act, which was to destroy
the Protestant religion; wherein, by God's mercy, and the assistance of our glorious King William,
they absolutely failed. The sectaries attempted the three most infernal actions, that could
possibly enter into the hearts of men, forsaken by God; which were, the murder of a most pious
King, the destruction of our monarchy, and the extirpation of the Church; and succeeded in
them all.

Upon which, I put the following queries. Whether any of those sectaries have ever yet in a
solemn public manner, renounced any one of those principles upon which their predecessors then
acted?

Whether, considering the cruel persecutions of the Episcopal Church, during the course of that
horrid rebellion and the consequences of it, until the happy Restoration; is it not manifest,
that the persecuting spirit lieth so equally divided between the Papists and the sectaries,
that a feather would turn the balance on either side?

And, therefore, lastly, Whether any person of common understanding, who professeth himself
a member of the Church established, although, perhaps, with little inward regard to any religion
(which is too often the case) if he loveth the peace and welfare of his country; can, after
cool thinking, rejoice to see a power placed again in the hands of so restless, so ambitious,
and so merciless a faction, to act over all the same parts a second time?

Whether the candour of that expression, so frequent of late in sermons and pamphlets, of the
"strength and number of the Papists in Ireland," can be justified? For as to their number,
however great, it is always magnified in proportion to the zeal, or politics, of the speaker
and writer; but it is a gross imposition upon common reason, to terrify us with their strength.
For Popery, under the circumstances it lieth in this kingdom; although it be offensive, and
inconvenient enough, from the consequences it hath to increase the rapine, sloth and ignorance,
as well as poverty of the natives; is not properly dangerous in that sense, as some would have
us take it; because it is universally hated by every party of a different religious profession.
It is the contempt of the wise: The best topic for clamours of designing men: But the real
terror only of fools. The landed Popish interest in England, far exceedeth that among us, even
in proportion to the wealth and extent of each kingdom. The little that remaineth here, is
daily dropping into Protestant hands, by purchase or descent; and that affected complaint of
counterfeit converts, will fall with the cause of it in half a generation; unless it be raised
or kept alive, as a continual fund of merit and eloquence. The Papists are wholly disarmed.
They have neither courage, leaders, money, or inclinations to rebel. They want every advantage
which they formerly possessed, to follow that trade; and wherein, even with those advantages,
they always miscarried. They appear very easy, and satisfied under that connivance which they
enjoyed during the whole last reign; nor ever scrupled to reproach another party, under which
they pretend to have suffered so much severity.

Upon these considerations I must confess to have suspended much of my pity towards the great
dreaders of Popery; many of whom appear to be hale, strong, active young men; who, as I am
told, eat, drink, and sleep heartily; and are very cheerful (as they have exceeding good reason)
upon all other subjects. However, I cannot too much commend the generous concern, which, our
neighbours and others, who come from the same neighbourhood, are so kind to express for us
upon this account; although the former be further removed from the dangers of Popery, by twenty
leagues of salt water: But this, I fear, is a digression.

When an artificial report was raised here many years ago, of an intended invasion by the Pretender,
(which blew over after it had done its office) the Dissenters argued in their talk, and in
their pamphlets, after this manner, applying themselves to those of the Church. "Gentlemen,
if the Pretender had landed, as the law now standeth, we durst not assist you; and therefore,
unless you take off the Test, whenever you shall happen to be invaded in earnest, if we are
desired to take up arms in your defence, our answer shall be, Pray, gentlemen, fight your own
battles,[1] we will lie by quietly; conquer your enemies by yourselves, if you can; we will
not do your drudgery." This way of reasoning I have heard from several of their chiefs and
abettors, in an hundred conversations; and have read it in twenty pamphlets: And, I am confident,
it will be offered again, if the project should fail to take off the Test.

[Footnote 1: See note, p. 40, referring to the poem:

  "The Grunters' request
  To take off the Test." [T.S.]]

Upon which piece of oratory and reasoning I form the following query. Whether, in case of an
invasion from the Pretender (which is not quite so probable as from the Grand Signior) the
Dissenters can, with prudence and safety, offer the same plea; except they shall have made
a previous stipulation with the invaders? And, Whether the full freedom of their religion and
trade, their lives, properties, wives and children, are not, and have not always been reckoned
sufficient motives for repelling invasions, especially in our sectaries, who call themselves
the truest Protestants, by virtue of their pretended or real fierceness against Popery?

Whether omitting or neglecting to celebrate the day of the martyrdom of the blessed King Charles
the First, enjoined by Act of Parliament, can be justly reckoned a particular and distinguishing
mark of good affection to the present government?

Whether in those churches, where the said day is observed, it will fully answer the intent
of the said Act; if the preacher shall commend, excuse, palliate, or extenuate the murder of
that royal Martyr; and lay the guilt of that horrid rebellion, with all its consequences, the
following usurpations, the entire destruction of the Church, the cruel and continual persecutions
of those who could be discovered to profess its doctrines, with the ensuing Babel of fanaticism,
to the account of that blessed King; who, by granting the Petition of Right, and passing every
bill that could be asked for the security of the subject, had, by the confession even of those
wicked men, before the war began, left them nothing more to demand?

Whether such a preacher as I have named, (whereof there have been more than one not many years
past, even in the presence of viceroys) who takes that course as a means for promotion; may
not be thought to step a little out of the common road, in a monarchy where the descendants
of that most blessed Martyr have reigned to this day?

I ground the reason of making these queries, on the title of the act; to which I refer the reader.

*****       *****       *****       *****       *****

THE ADVANTAGES

PROPOSED BY REPEALING THE SACRAMENTAL

TEST,

IMPARTIALLY CONSIDERED.

BY THE REV. DR. SWIFT, DEAN OF ST. PATRICK'S,

Dublin, Printed; London, Re-printed for J. Roberts at the Oxford Arms in Warwick Lane. 1732.
(Price Six-pence.)

NOTE.

The text here given is that of the London reprint of the original edition, which has been collated
with that given by Faulkner (vol. iv., 1735). In 1790 the tract was reprinted by J. Walters,
and it is evidently from this reprint that Scott obtained his text; for the two agree in almost
every particular.

[T.S.]

  THE ADVANTAGES PROPOSED BY REPEALING
  THE SACRAMENTAL
  TEST, IMPARTIALLY
  CONSIDERED.

Whoever writes impartially upon this subject, must do it not only as a mere secular man, but
as one who is altogether indifferent to any particular system of Christianity. And, I think,
in whatever country that religion predominates, there is one certain form of worship and ceremony,
which is looked upon as the established, and consequently only the priests of that particular
form, are maintained at the public charge, and all civil employments are bestowed among those
who comply (at least outwardly) with the same establishment.

This method is strictly observed, even by our neighbours the Dutch, who are confessed to allow
the fullest liberty to conscience of any Christian state; and yet are never known to admit
any persons into religious or civil offices, who do not conform to the legal worship. As to
their military men, they are indeed not so scrupulous, being, by the nature of their government,
under a necessity of hiring foreign troops of whatever religious denomination, upon every great
emergency, and maintaining no small number in time of peace.

This caution therefore of making one established faith, seems to be universal, and founded
upon the strongest reasons; the mistaken, or affected zeal of obstinacy, and enthusiasm, having
produced such a number of horrible, destructive events, throughout all Christendom. For, whoever
begins to think the national worship is wrong, in any important article of practice or belief,
will, if he be serious, naturally have a zeal to make as many proselytes as he can, and a nation
may possibly have an hundred different sects with their leaders; every one of which hath an
equal right to plead; they must "obey God rather than man," must "cry aloud and spare not,"
must "lift up their voice like a trumpet"

This was the very case of England, during the fanatic times. And against all this, there seems
to be no defence, but that of supporting one established form of doctrine and discipline; leaving
the rest to a bare liberty of conscience, but without any maintenance or encouragement from
the public.

Wherever this national religion grows so corrupt, or is thought to do so by a very great majority
of learned[1] people, joined to the governing party, whether prince or senate, or both, it
ought to be changed, provided the work might be done without blood or tumults.[2] Yet, whenever
such a change shall be made, some other establishment must succeed (although for the worse),
allowing all deviations that would break the union to be only tolerated. In this sense, those
who affirm, that every law, which is contrary to the law of God, is void in itself, seem to
be mistaken. For, many laws in Popish kingdoms and states, many more among the Turks, and perhaps
not a few in other countries, are directly against the divine laws; and yet, God knows, are
very far from being void in the executive parts.

[Footnote 1: Scott has "landed." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Scott has "confusion." [T.S.]]

Thus, for instance, if the three estates of Parliament in England (whereof the lords spiritual[3]
are one) should agree, and obtain the royal assent to abolish Episcopacy, together with the
liturgy, and the whole frame of the English church, as "burthensome, dangerous, and contrary
to Holy Scripture"; and that Presbytery, Anabaptism, Quakerism, Independency,[4] or any other
subdivided sect among us, should be established in its place; without question, all peaceable
subjects ought passively to submit, and the predominant sect must become the religion established,
the public maintaining no other teachers, nor admitting any persons of a different religious
profession, into civil offices; at least, if their intention be to preserve the nation in peace.

[Footnote 3: Scott inserts here the words: "who represent the Church." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: Scott inserts here "Muggletonianism, Brownism, Familism." [T.S.]]

Supposing then, that the present system of religion were abolished; and Presbytery, which stands
much the fairest, with its synods and classes, and all its forms and ceremonies, essential
or circumstantial, were erected into the national worship: Their teachers, and no others, could
have any legal claim to be supported at the public charge, whether by stipends or tithes; and
only the rest of the same faith to be capable of civil employments.

If there be any true reasoning in what I have laid down, it should seem, that the project now
in agitation for repealing the Test Act, and yet leaving the name of an establishment to the
present national church, is altogether inconsistent, and may admit of consequences, which those,
who are the most indifferent to any religion at all, are possibly not aware of.

I presume, whenever the Test shall be repealed, which obliges all men, who enter into office
under the Crown, to receive the sacrament according to the rites of the Church of Ireland,
the way to employments will immediately be left open to all dissenters, (except Papists) whose
consciences can suffer them to take the common oaths in such cases prescribed, after which
they are qualified to fill any lay station in this kingdom, from that of chief governor, to
an exciseman.

Thus of the three judges on each bench, the first may be a Presbyterian, the second a Free-will
Baptist, and the third a Churchman; the Lord Chancellor may be an Independent; the revenues
may be managed by seven commissioners of as many different sects; and the like of all other
employments. Not to mention the strong probability, that the lawfulness of taking oaths may
be revealed to the Quakers, who then will stand upon as good a foot for preferment, as any
other loyal subject. It is easy[5] to imagine, under such a motley administration of affairs,
what a clashing there will be of interests and inclinations, what puttings and haulings backwards
and forwards, what a zeal and bias in each religionist, to advance his own tribe, and depress
the others. For, I suppose nothing will be readier granted, than that how indifferent soever
most men are in faith and morals, yet whether out of artifice, natural complexion, or love
of contradiction, none are more obstinate in maintaining their own opinions, and worrying all
who differ from them, than those who publicly shew the least sense, either of religion or common
honesty.

[Footnote 5: Scott has "obvious." [T.S.]]

As to the latter, Bishop Burnet tells us, that the Presbyterians, in the fanatic times, professed
themselves to be above morality; which, as we find in some of their writings, was numbered
among the "beggarly elements"; and accordingly at this day, no scruples of conscience with
regard to conformity, are in any trade or calling, inconsistent with the greatest fraud, oppression,
perjury, or any other vice.

This brings to my memory a passage in Montaigne, of a common prostitute, who, in the storming
of a town, when a soldier came up to her chamber, and offered violence to her chastity, rather
chose to venture her neck, by leaping out of the window, than suffer a rape; yet still continued
her trade of lewdness, whilst she had any customers left.[6]

[Footnote 6: The passage referred to by Swift is to be found in the first chapter of the second
book of Florio's translation of Montaigne's "Essays"--"Of the Inconstancie of our Actions." [T.S.]]

I confess, that in my private judgment, an unlimited permission of all sects whatsoever (except
Papists) to enjoy employments, would be less pernicious to the public, than a fair struggle
between two contenders; because in the former case, such a jumble of principles, might possibly
have the effect of contrary poisons mingled together, which a strong constitution might perhaps
be able for some time to survive.

But however, I shall take the other, and more probable supposition, that this battle for employments,
is to be fought only between the Presbyterians, and those of the church yet established. I
shall not enter into the merits of either side, by examining which of the two is the better
spiritual economy, or which is most suited to the civil constitution: But the question turns
upon this point: When the Presbyterians shall have got their share of employments (which, must
be one full half, or else they cannot look upon themselves as fairly dealt with) I ask, whether
they ought not by their own principles, and by the strictest rules of conscience, to use the
utmost of their skill, power, and influence, in order to reduce the whole kingdom to an uniformity
in religion, both as to doctrine and discipline, most agreeable to the word of God. Wherein,
if they can succeed without blood (as, under the present disposition of things, it is very
possible they may) it is to be hoped they will at last be satisfied: Only I would warn them
of a few difficulties. The first is for compromising that important controversy about the Old
Light and the New;[7] which otherwise may, after this establishment, split them as wide as
Papist and Protestant, Whig and Tory, or Churchmen and Dissenters; and consequently the work
will be to begin again. For in religious quarrels, it is of little moment how few or small
the differences are, especially when the dispute is only about power. Thus the jealous Presbyterians
of the north, are more alienated from the established clergy, than from the Romish priests;
taxing the former with idolatrous worship, as disguised Papists, ceremony-mongers, and many
other terms of arts, and this for a very powerful reason, because the clergy stand in their
way, which the Popish priests do not. Thus I am assured, that the quarrel between Old and New
Light men, is managed with more rage and rancour, than any other dispute of the highest importance;
and this because it serves to lessen or increase their several congregations, from whom they
receive their contributions.

[Footnote 7: See "The Correspondent," Nos. 1 and 2, 1733, and note prefixed to present reprint
of "Narrative of Several Attempts for the Repeal of the Sacramental Test" [T.S.]]

Another difficulty which may embarrass the Presbyterians after their establishment, will be
how to adjust their claim of the kirk's independency on the civil power, with the constitution
of this monarchy; a point so delicate, that it hath often filled the heads of great patriots
with dangerous notions of the church-clergy, without the least ground of suspicion.

As to the Presbyterians allowing liberty of conscience to those of Episcopal principles, when
their own kirk is predominant, their writers are so universally agreed in the negative, as
well as their practice during Oliver's reign, that I believe no reasonable Churchman, (who
must then be a dissenter) will expect it.

I shall here take notice, that in the division of employments among the Presbyterians, after
this approaching repeal of the Test Act, supposing them, in proper time, to have an equal share,
I compute the odds will be three or four to one on their side, in any further scheme they may
have towards making their religion national. For I reckon, all those gentlemen sent over from
England, whatever religion they profess, or have been educated in, to be of that party: Since
it is no mark of prudence, for any persons to oppose the current of a nation, where they are
in some sort only sojourners, unless they have it in direction.

If there be any maxim in politics, not to be controlled, it must be the following: That those
whose private interest is united with the interest of their country, supposing them to be of
equal understanding with the rest of their neighbours, will heartily wish, that the nation
should thrive. Out of these are indubitably excepted all persons who are sent from another
kingdom, to be employed in places of profit or power; because they can possibly bear no affection
to the place where they sojourn, even for life; their sole business being to advance themselves,
by following the advice of their principals. I except, likewise, those persons who are taken
into offices, although natives of the land, because they are greater gainers while they keep
their offices, than they could possibly be by mending the miserable condition of their country.

I except, Thirdly, all hopers, who, by balancing accounts with themselves, turn the scale on
the same side; because the strong expectation of a good certain salary, will outweigh the loss
by bad rents, received out of lands in moneyless times.

If my lords, the bishops, who, I hear, are now employed in a scheme for regulating the conduct
and maintenance of the inferior clergy, shall in their wisdom and piety, and love of the church,
consent to this repeal of the Test, I have not the least doubt, that the whole reverend body
will cheerfully submit to their spiritual fathers, of whose paternal tenderness for their welfare,
they have already found so many amazing instances.

I am not, therefore, under the least concern about the clergy on this account. They will (for
some time) be no great sufferers by this repeal; because I cannot recollect among all our sects,
any one that gives latitude enough to take the oaths required at an institution to a church-living;
and, until that bar shall be removed, the present Episcopal clergy are safe for two years.
Although it may be thought somewhat unequal, that in the northern parts, where there may be
three Dissenters to one Churchman, the whole revenue should be engrossed by one who hath so
small a part of the cure.

It is true, indeed, that this disadvantage, which the Dissenters at present lie under, of a
disability to receive church-preferments, will be easily remedied by the repeal of the Test.
For the dissenting teachers are under no incapacity of accepting civil and military employments,
wherein they agree perfectly with the Popish clergy, among whom great cardinals and prelates
have been commanders of armies, chief ministers, knights of many orders, ambassadors, secretaries
of state, and in most high offices under the Crown, although they assert the indelible character,
which no sectaries among us did ever assume. But, that many, both Presbyterians and Independents,
commanders, as well as private soldiers, were professed preachers in the time of their dominion,
is allowed by all. Cromwell himself was a preacher, and hath left us one of his sermons in
print[8]: So was Col. Howard, Sir George Downing,[9] and several others whose names are on
record. I can, therefore, see no reason why a painful Presbyterian teacher, as soon as the
Test shall be repealed, may not be privileged, to hold along with his spiritual office and
stipend, a commission in the army, or the civil list in commendam: For, as I take it, the Church
of England is the only body of Christians, which, in effect, disqualifies those who are employed
to preach its doctrine, from sharing in the civil power, further than as senators; which, however,
was an institution[10] begun in times of Popery, many hundred years before the Reformation,
and woven with the very institution of this limited monarchy.

[Footnote 8: Scott inserts here the words: "exactly in the same style and manner with those
of our modern Presbyterian teachers." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: Sir George Downing (1623?-1684) born in England, completed his education at Harvard,
Mass., U.S.A. In 1650, we hear of him as scout-master general of Cromwell's army in Scotland.
He wrote many of the letters in "Mercurius Politicus." Distinguished himself principally as
Cromwell's ambassador in France and Holland. Through Thomas Howard, however, he obtained an
opportunity while legate in Holland for the Rump Parliament, for ingratiating himself in Charles
II.'s favour. This Howard was brother to the Earl of Suffolk. As a consequence of this favour,
Downing was made a baronet at the Restoration; and although a man of undoubted ability, his
character has come down to us by no means free from taint. Many of his despatches are quoted
by Clarendon in that writer's great history. Downing also wrote: "A Reply to the Remarks of
the Deputies of the States-General upon Sir G. Downing's Memorial," 1665,; and "Discourses
vindicating his Royal Master from a Libel," 1672. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: Scott has, instead of "which, however, was an institution," the words, "yet this
was a privilege." [T.S.]]

There is indeed another method, by which the stipends of dissenting teachers may be raised,
and the farmer much relieved; If it should be thought proper to reward a people so deserving,
and so loyal by their principles. Every bishop, upon the vacancy of a church-living, can sequester
the profits for the use of the next incumbent. Upon a lapse of half a year, the donation falls
to the archbishop, and after a full year to the Crown, during pleasure; therefore it would
be no hardship for any clergyman alive, if, in those parts of Ireland, where the number of
sectaries much exceed that of the conformists, the profits, when sequestered, might be applied
to the support of the dissenting teacher, who hath so many souls to take care of, whereby the
poor tenants would be much relieved in these hard times, and in a better condition to pay their
rents.

But there is another difficulty in this matter, against which a remedy doth not so readily
occur. For, supposing the Test Act repealed, and the Dissenters in consequence fully qualified
for all secular employments, the question may still be put, whether those of Ireland will be
often the persons on whom they shall be bestowed; because it is imagined, there may be another
seminary[11] in view, more numerous and more needy, as well as more meriting, and more easily
contented with such low offices, as some nearer neighbours hardly think it worth stirring from
their chimney-sides to obtain. And, I am told, it is the common practice of those who are skilled
in the management of bees, that when they see a foreign swarm at some distance, approaching
with an intention to plunder their hives, these artists have a trick to divert them into some
neighbouring apiary, there to make what havoc they please. This I should not have hinted, if
I had not known it already, to have gotten ground in many suspecting heads: For it is the peculiar
talent of this nation, to see dangers afar off: To all which I can only say, that our native
Presbyterians, must, by pains and industry, raise such a fund of merit, as will answer to a
birth six degrees more to the north. If they cannot arrive at this perfection, as several of
the established church have compassed by indefatigable pains, I do not well see how their affairs
will much mend by repealing the Test; for, to be qualified by law for[12] an employment, and
yet to be disqualified in fact, as it will much increase the mortification, so it will withdraw
the pity of many among their well-wishers, and utterly deprive them of that merit, they have
so long made of being a loyal, true Protestant people, persecuted only for religion.

[Footnote 11: Scotland.]

[Footnote 12: Scott has "to accept." [T.S.]]

If this happen to be their case, they must wait maturity of time, till they can by prudent,
gentle steps make their faith become the religion established in the nation, after which, I
do not in the least doubt, their taking the most effectual methods to secure their power against
those who must then be Dissenters in their turn, whereof, if we may form a future opinion from
present times, and the disposition of Dissenters, who love to make a thorough reformation,
the number and qualities will be very inconsiderable.

Thus I have with the utmost sincerity, after long thinking, given my judgment upon this arduous
affair; but with the utmost deference and submission to public wisdom and power.

*****       *****       *****       *****       *****

REASONS HUMBLY OFFERED TO THE

PARLIAMENT OF IRELAND FOR

REPEALING THE SACRAMENTAL

TEST, &C.

NOTE.

In the 4to edition of Swift's works (1755) is given the following note:

"The author having before examined 'The Presbyterians' Plea of Merit' with respect to their
own principles and practices, has in this tract put them in the balance against Papists."

In a reprint of this tract in the second volume of "Political Tracts," 2 vols. 8vo, 1738, London,
is the following "Advertisement"--neither Scott, Faulkner, nor Hawkesworth give this. Probably
it appeared in the first edition; but as I have not been able to come across this, I am not
certain.

"In the years 1732, and 1733, an attempt was made for repealing the Test Act in Ireland, introductory
of a like attempt in England. The various arguments for it were answered in every shape; but
no way more effectually than by examining what pretence the Presbyterians had to share in all
the privileges of government, either from their own principles and behaviour, or compared with
those of other sectaries. Under the former head they were fully silenced by our author in 'The
Presbyterians' Plea of Merit Impartially Examined'. They are now put in the balance with Papists,
whom though they have sometimes styled their brethren in adversity, yet when placed in competition,
they will hate as brethren likewise. But let them here dispute the preference, and then put
in their claim to be part of the establishment." "The arguments pretended to be urged by the
Roman Catholics, in this tract," says Monck Mason, "consist partly of true statements and partly
of ironical allusions, which are combined together into such a trellis work, as to render it
almost unassailable."

The text here given is that from the 4to edition (1755) of Swift's Works, collated with that
in the second volume of "Political Tracts" above referred to.

  Drawn partly from Arguments as they are
  Catholics, and partly from Arguments
  common to them with their Brethren the
  Dissenters.

  WRITTEN IN THE YEAR 1733.

It is well known, that the first conquerors of this kingdom were English Catholics, subjects
to English Catholic kings, from whom, by their valour and success, they obtained large portions
of land given them as a reward for their many victories over the Irish: To which merit our
brethren the Dissenters of any denomination whatsoever, have not the least pretensions.

It is confessed, that the posterity of those first victorious Catholics were often forced to
rise in their own defence, against new colonies from England, who treated them like mere native
Irish, with innumerable oppressions; depriving them of their lands, and driving them by force
of arms into the most desolate parts of the kingdom. Till in the next generation, the children
of these tyrants were used in the same manner by new English adventurers, which practice continued
for many centuries. But it is agreed on all hands, that no insurrections were ever made, except
after great oppressions by fresh invaders. Whereas all the rebellions of Puritans, Presbyterians,
Independents, and other sectaries, constantly began before any provocations were given, except
that they were not suffered to change the government in Church and State, and seize both into
their own hands; which, however, at last they did, with the murder of their King and of many
thousands of his best subjects.

The Catholics were always defenders of monarchy, as constituted in these kingdoms. Whereas
our brethren the Dissenters were always republicans, both in principle and practice. It is
well known that all the Catholics of these kingdoms, both priests and laity, are true Whigs
in the best and most proper sense of the word; bearing as well in their hearts, as in their
outward profession, an entire loyalty to the royal house of Hanover in the person and posterity
of George II. against the Pretender and all his adherents. To which they think themselves bound
in gratitude as well as conscience, by the lenity wherewith they have been treated since the
death of Queen Anne, so different from what they suffered in the four last years of that Princess,
during the administration of that wicked minister, the Earl of Oxford.

The Catholics of this kingdom humbly hope, that they have at least as fair a title as any of
their brother Dissenters, to the appelation of Protestants. They have always protested against
the selling, dethroning, or murdering their Kings: Against the usurpations and avarice of the
court of Rome: Against Deism, Atheism, Socinianism, Quakerism, Muggletonianism, Fanaticism,
Brownism, as well as against all Jews, Turks, Infidels, and Heretics. Whereas the title of
Protestants assumed by the whole herd of Dissenters (except ourselves) dependeth entirely upon
their protesting against archbishops, bishops, deans, and chapters, with their revenues; and
the whole hierarchy. Which are the very expressions used in The Solemn League and Covenant,[1]
where the word Popery is only mentioned ad invidiam; because the Catholics agree with the Episcopal
church in those fundamentals.

[Footnote 1:   A solemn league and covenant entered into between the Scots and English fanatics,
in the rebellion against King Charles I., 1643, by which they solemnly engaged, among other
things, "To endeavour the extirpation of prelacy, that is, church government by archbishops,
bishops, deans, archdeacons, and all other episcopal officers, depending on that hierarchy." [H.]]

Although the Catholics cannot deny, that in the great rebellion against King Charles I. more
soldiers of their religion were in the Parliament army than in His Majesty's troops; and that
many Jesuits and friars went about in the disguise of Presbyterian and Independent ministers,
to preach up rebellion; as the best historians of those times inform us; yet the bulk of Catholics
in both kingdoms preserved their loyalty entire.

The Catholics have some reason to think it a little hard, when their enemies will not please
to distinguish between the rebellious riot committed by that brutal ruffian, Sir Phelim O'Neal[2]
with his tumultuous crew of rabble; and the forces raised afterwards by the Catholic lords
and gentlemen of the English pale, in defence of the King after the English rebellion began.
It is well known, that His Majesty's affairs were in great distraction some time before, by
an invasion of the covenanting, Scottish, kirk rebels, and by the base terms the King was forced
to accept, that they might be kept in quiet, at a juncture when he was every hour threatened
at home by that fanatic party, which soon after set all in a flame. And, if the Catholic army
in Ireland fought for their King against the forces sent over by the Parliament, then in actual
rebellion against him, what person of loyal principles can be so partial to deny, that they
did their duty, by joining with the Marquis of Ormonde, and other commanders, who bore their
commissions from the King? For which, great numbers of them lost their lives, and forfeited
their estates; a great part of the latter being now possessed by many descendants from those
very men who had drawn their swords in the service of that rebellious Parliament which cut
off his head, and destroyed monarchy. And what is more amazing, although the same persons,
when the Irish were entirely subdued, continued in power under the Rump; were chief confidants,
and faithful subjects to Cromwell, yet being wise enough to foresee a restoration, they seized
the forts and castles here, out of the hands of their old brethren in rebellion, for the service
of the King; just saving the tide, and putting in a stock of merit, sufficient not only to
preserve the lands which the Catholics lost by their loyalty; but likewise to preserve their
civil and military employments, or be higher advanced.

[Footnote 2: Sir Phelim O'Neill (1604?-1683) one of the most picturesque characters of Irish
history. For his share in the rebellion of 1641 he was expelled from the Irish House of Commons.
The rebellion was an attempt to assist Charles as against the Parliament, and O'Neill forged
a commission, purporting to come from the King, authorizing the Irish to rise in his favour.
The Scottish settlers in Ulster, on whom O'Neill relied for aid disappointed him, and he thereupon
set to work to reduce all their towns. The famous siege of Drogheda was one of the many incidents
of his campaign. He joined forces with his kinsman, Owen Roe O'Neill, but a jealous difference
on his part urged Sir Phelim to support Ormonde, in 1640, in that general's endeavours for
a peace. Sir Phelim, however, was not included in the benefit of the Articles of Kilkenny,
and a price was placed on his head. He was betrayed by Philip Roe McHugh O'Neill, brought to
Dublin, and executed as a traitor. [T.S.]]

Those insurrections wherewith the Catholics are charged from the beginning of the seventeenth
century to the great English rebellion, were occasioned by many oppressions they lay under.
They had no intention to introduce a new religion, but to enjoy the liberty of preserving the
old; the very same which their ancestors professed from the time that Christianity was first
introduced into this island, which was by Catholics; but whether mingled with corruptions,
as some pretend, doth not belong to the question. They had no design to change the government;
they never attempted to fight against, to imprison, to betray, to sell, to bring to a trial,
or to murder their King. The schismatics acted by a spirit directly contrary; they united in
a Solemn League and Covenant, to alter the whole system of spiritual government, established
in all Christian nations, and of apostolic institution; concluding the tragedy with the murder
of the King in cold blood, and upon mature deliberation; at the same time changing the monarchy
into a commonwealth.

The Catholics of Ireland, in the great rebellion, lost their estates for fighting in defence
of their King. The schismatics, who cut off the father's head, forced the son to fly for his
life, and overturned the whole ancient frame of government, religious and civil; obtained grants
of those very estates which the Catholics lost in defence of the ancient constitution, many
of which estates are at this day possessed by the posterity of those schismatics: And thus,
they gained by their rebellion what the Catholics lost by their loyalty.[3]

[Footnote 3: This paragraph is omitted in edition of 1743, but it is printed in that of 1755.
[T.S.]]

We allow the Catholics to be brethren of the Dissenters; some people, indeed, (which we cannot
allow) would have them to be our children, because we both dissent from the Church established,
and both agree in abolishing this persecuting Sacramental Test; by which negative discouragement
we are both rendered incapable of civil and military employments. However, we cannot but wonder
at the bold familiarity of these schismatics, in calling the members of the National Church
their brethren and fellow Protestants. It is true, that all these sects (except the Catholics)
are brethren to each other in faction, ignorance, iniquity, perverseness, pride, and (if we
except the Quakers) in rebellion. But, how the churchmen can be styled their fellow Protestants,
we cannot comprehend. Because, when the whole Babel of sectaries joined against the Church,
the King, and the nobility for twenty years, in a match at football; where the proverb expressly
tells us, that all are fellows; while the three kingdoms were tossed to and fro, the churches,
and cities, and royal palaces shattered to pieces by their balls, their buffets, and their
kicks; the victors would allow no more fellows at football: But murdered, sequestered, plundered,
deprived, banished to the plantations, or enslaved all their opposers who had lost the game.

It is said the world is governed by opinion; and politicians assure us, that all power is founded
thereupon. Wherefore, as all human creatures are fond to distraction of their own opinions;
and so much the more, as those opinions are absurd, ridiculous, or of little moment; it must
follow, that they are equally fond of power. But no opinions are maintained with so much obstinacy
as those in religion, especially by such zealots who never bore the least regard to religion,
conscience, honour, justice, truth, mercy, or common morality, farther than in outward appearance;
under the mask of hypocrisy, to promote their diabolical designs. And therefore Bishop Burnet,
one of their oracles, tells us honestly, that the saints of those fanatic times, pronounced
themselves above morality; which they reckoned among "beggarly elements"; but the meaning of
those two last words thus applied, we confess to be above our understanding.

Among those kingdoms and states which first embraced the Reformation, England appears to have
received it in the most regular way; where it was introduced in a peaceable manner, by the
supreme power of a King,[4] and the three estates in Parliament; to which, as the highest legislative
authority, all subjects are bound passively to submit. Neither was there much blood shed on
so great a change of religion. But a considerable number of lords, and other persons of quality
through the kingdom still continued in their old faith, and were, notwithstanding their difference
in religion, employed in offices civil as well as military, more or less in every reign, until
the Test Act in the time of King Charles II. However, from the time of the Reformation, the
number of Catholics gradually and considerably lessened. So that in the reign of King Charles
I. England became, in a great degree, a Protestant Kingdom, without taking the sectaries into
the number; the legality whereof, with respect to human laws, the Catholics never disputed:
But the Puritans, and other schismatics, without the least pretence to any such authority,
by an open rebellion, destroyed that legal Reformation, as we observed before, murdered their
King, and changed the monarchy into a republic. It is therefore not to be wondered at, if the
Catholics, in such a Babel of religions, chose to adhere to their own faith left to them by
their ancestors, rather than seek for a better among a rabble of hypocritical, rebellious,
deluding knaves, or deluded enthusiasts.

[Footnote 4: Henry VIII [H.]]

We repeat once more, that if a national religion be changed by the supreme legislative power,
we cannot dispute the human legality of such a change. But we humbly conceive, that if any
considerable party of men which differs from an establishment, either old or new, can deserve
liberty of conscience, it ought to consist of those who for want of conviction, or of a right
understanding the merits of each cause, conceive themselves bound in conscience to adhere to
the religion of their ancestors; because they are of all others least likely to be authors
of innovations, either in Church or State.

On t'other side; If the reformation of religion be founded upon rebellion against the King,
without whose consent, by the nature of our constitution, no law can pass. If this reformation
be introduced by only one of the three estates, I mean the Commons, and not by one half even
of those Commons; and this by the assistance of a rebellious army: Again, if this reformation
were carried on by the exclusion of nobles both lay and spiritual (who constitute the two other
parts of the three estates) by the murder of their King, and by abolishing the whole system
of government; the Catholics cannot see why the successors of those schismatics, who are universally
accused by all parties except themselves, and a few infamous abettors, for still retaining
the same principles in religion and government, under which their predecessors acted; should
pretend to a better share of civil or military trust, profit and power than the Catholics,
who during all that period of twenty years, were continually persecuted with utmost severity,
merely on account of their loyalty and constant adherence to kingly power.

We now come to those arguments for repealing the Sacramental Test, which equally affect the
Catholics, and their brethren the Dissenters.

First, We agree with our fellow Dissenters; that "persecution merely for conscience' sake,
is against the genius of the Gospel."[5] And so likewise is "any law for depriving men of their
natural and civil rights which they claim as men." We are also ready enough to allow that "the
smallest negative discouragements for uniformity's sake are so many persecutions." Because,
it cannot be denied, that the scratch of a pin is in some degree a real wound, as much as a
stab through the heart. In like manner, an incapacity by law for any man to be made a judge,
a colonel, or justice of the peace, "merely on a point of conscience, is a negative discouragement,"
and consequently a real persecution: For, in this case, the author of the pamphlet quoted in
the margin[6] puts a very pertinent and powerful question: That, "If God be the sole lord of
the conscience, why should the rights of conscience be subject to human jurisdiction?" Now
to apply this to the Catholics: The belief of transubstantiation "is a matter purely of religion
and conscience, which doth not affect the political interest of society as such. Therefore,
Why should the rights of conscience, whereof God is the sole lord, be subject to human jurisdiction?"
And why should God be deprived of this right over a Catholic's conscience any more than over
that of any other Dissenter?

[Footnote 5: Vid. Reasons for the Repeal of the Sacramental Test. [Note in edit. 1738.]]

[Footnote 6: Idem.]

And whereas another author among our brethren the Dissenters, hath very justly complained,
that by this persecuting Test Act, great numbers of true Protestants have been forced to leave
the kingdom, and fly to the plantations, rather than stay here branded with an incapacity for
civil and military employments; we do affirm, that the Catholics can bring many more instances
of the same kind; some thousands of their religion have been forced by the Sacramental Test,
to retire into other countries, rather than live here under the incapacity of wearing swords,
sitting in Parliament, and getting that share of power and profit which belongs to them as
fellow Christians, whereof they are deprived "merely upon account of conscience, which would
not allow them to take the sacrament after the manner prescribed in the liturgy." Hence it
clearly follows in the words of the same author,[7] "That if we Catholics are uncapable of
employments, we are punished for our dissent, that is, for our conscience, which wholly turns
upon political considerations."

[Footnote 7: See "Reasons against the Test." [Note in edit. 1738.]]

The Catholics are willing to acknowledge the King's supremacy, whenever their brethren the
Dissenters shall please to shew them the example.

Further, The Catholics, whenever their religion shall come to be the national established faith,
are willing to undergo the same test offered by the author already quoted. His words are these:
"To end this debate, by putting it upon a foot which I hope will appear to every impartial
person a fair and equitable one; We Catholics propose, with submission to the proper judges,
that effectual security be taken against persecution, by obliging all who are admitted into
places of power and trust, whatever their religious profession be, in the most solemn manner
to disclaim persecuting principles." It is hoped the public will take notice of these words;
"Whatever their religious profession be;" which plainly include the Catholics; and for which
we return thanks to our dissenting brethren.

And, whereas it is objected by those of the established Church, that if the schismatics and
fanatics were once put into a capacity of possessing civil and military employments; they would
never be at ease till they had raised their own way of worship into the national religion through
all His Majesty's dominions, equal with the true orthodox Scottish kirk; which when they had
once brought to pass, they would no more allow liberty of conscience to Episcopal Dissenters,
than they did in the time of the great English rebellion, and in the succeeding fanatic anarchy
till the King was restored. There is another very learned schismatical pamphleteer,[8] who
in answer to a malignant libel, called, The Presbyterians' Plea of Merit, &c., clearly wipes
off this aspersion; by assuring all Episcopal Protestants of the present Church, upon his own
word, and to his own knowledge, that our brethren the Dissenters will never offer at such an
attempt. In like manner, the Catholics when legally required, will openly declare upon their
words and honours, that, as soon as their negative discouragements and their persecution shall
be removed by repealing the Sacramental Test, they will leave it entirely to the merits of
the cause, whether the kingdom shall think fit to make their faith the established religion or not.

[Footnote 8: "Vindication of the Protestant Dissenters." This pamphlet has been mentioned in
the note prefixed to "The Presbyterians' Plea of Merit." It was written as a reply to that
tract, and to the "Narrative."[T.S.]]

And again, Whereas our Presbyterian brethren in many of their pamphlets, take much offence,
that the great rebellion in England, the murder of the King, with the entire change of religion
and government, are perpetually objected against them both in and out of season, by our common
enemy, the present conformists: We do declare in the defence of our said brethren, that the
reproach aforesaid is an old worn-out threadbare cant, which they always disdained to answer:
And I very well remember, that, having once told a certain conformist, how much I wondered
to hear him and his tribe, dwelling perpetually on so beaten a subject; he was pleased to divert
the discourse with a foolish story, which I cannot forbear telling to his disgrace. He said,
there was a clergyman in Yorkshire, who for fifteen years together preached every Sunday against
drunkenness: Whereat the parishioners being much offended, complained to the archbishop; who
having sent for the clergyman, and severely reprimanded him, the minister had no better an
answer, than by confessing the fact; adding, that all the parish were drunkards; that he desired
to reclaim them from one vice before he would begin upon another; and, since they still continued
to be as great drunkards as before, he resolved to go on, except his Grace would please to
forbid him.

We are very sensible how heavy an accusation lieth upon the Catholics of Ireland; that some
years before King Charles II. was restored, when theirs and the King's forces were entirely
reduced, and the kingdom declared by the Rump to be settled; after all His Majesty's generals
were forced to fly to France, or other countries, the heads of the said Catholics who remained
here in an enslaved condition, joined to send an invitation to the Duke of Lorrain; engaging,
upon his appearing here with his forces, to deliver up the whole island to his power, and declare
him their sovereign; which, after the Restoration, was proved against them by Dean Boyle, since
primate, who produced the very original instrument at the board. The Catholics freely acknowledge
the fact to be true; and, at the same time appeal to all the world, whether a wiser, a better,
a more honourable, or a more justifiable project could have been thought of. They were then
reduced to slavery and beggary by the English rebels, many thousands of them murdered, the
rest deprived of their estates, and driven to live on a small pittance in the wilds of Connaught;
at a time when either the Rump or Cromwell absolutely governed the three kingdoms. And the
question will turn upon this, Whether the Catholics, deprived of all their possessions, governed
with a rod of iron, and in utter despair of ever seeing the monarchy restored, for the preservation
of which they had suffered so much, were to be blamed for calling in a foreign prince of their
own religion, who had a considerable army to support them; rather than submit to so infamous
an usurper as Cromwell, or such a bloody and ignominious conventicle as the Rump. And I have
often heard, not only our friends the Dissenters, but even our common enemy the Conformists,
who are conversant in the history of those times, freely confess, that considering the miserable
situation the Irish were then in, they could not have thought of a braver or more virtuous
attempt; by which they might have been instruments of restoring the lawful monarch, at least
to the recovery of England and Scotland, from those betrayers, and sellers, and murderers of
his royal father.

To conclude, Whereas the last quoted author complains very heavily and frequently of a brand
that lies upon them, it is a great mistake: For the first original brand hath been long taken
off. Only we confess, the scar will probably remain and be visible for ever to those who know
the principles by which they acted, and until those principles shall be openly renounced; else
it must continue to all generations, like the mark set upon Cain, which some authors say descended
to all his posterity: Or like the Roman nose and Austrian lip, or like the long bag of flesh
hanging down from the gills of the people in Piedmont. But as for any brands fixed on schismatics
for several years past, they have been all made with cold iron; like thieves, who by the benefit
of the clergy are condemned to be only burned in the hand; but escape the pain and the mark,
by being in fee with the jailor. Which advantage the schismatical teachers will never want,
who, as we are assured, and of which there is a very fresh instance, have the souls, and bodies,
and purses of the people a hundred times more at their mercy, than the Catholic priests could
ever pretend to.

Therefore, upon the whole, the Catholics do humbly petition (without the least insinuation
of threatening) that upon this favourable juncture their incapacity for civil and military
employments may be wholly taken off, for the very same reasons (besides others more cogent)
that are now offered by their brethren the Dissenters.

And your petitioners, as in duty bound, shall ever pray, &c.[9]

Dublin, Nov. 1733.

[Footnote 9: In this controversy the author was again victorious, for the Test was not repealed.
[H.]]

*****       *****       *****       *****       *****

SOME FEW THOUGHTS

CONCERNING THE REPEAL OF THE TEST.[1]

[Footnote 1: The text is that of the quarto edition (1765) of Swift's Works. [T.S.]]

Those of either side who have written upon this subject of the Test, in making or answering
objections, seem to fail by not pressing sufficiently the chief point upon which the controversy
turns. The arguments used by those who write for the Church are very good in their kind, but
will have little force under the present corruptions of mankind, because the authors treat
this subject tanquam in republicâ, Platonis, et non in fæce Romuli.

It must be confessed, that, considering how few employments of any consequence fall to the
share of those English who are born in this kingdom, and those few very dearly purchased, at
the expense of conscience, liberty, and all regard for the public good, they are not worth
contending for: And, if nothing but profit were in the case, it would hardly cost me one sigh
when I should see those few scraps thrown among every species of fanatics, to scuffle for among
themselves.

And this will infallibly be the case, after repealing the Test.

For, every subdivision of sect will, with equal justice, pretend to have a share; and, as it
is usual with sharers, will never think they have enough, while any pretender is left unprovided.
I shall not except the Quakers; because, when the passage is once let open for all sects to
partake in public emoluments, it is very probable the lawfulness of taking oaths, and wearing
carnal weapons,[2] may be revealed to the brotherhood; which thought, I confess, was first
put into my head by one of the shrewdest Quakers in this kingdom.[3]

[Footnote 2:  The Quakers were more likely to admit this relaxation of their peculiar tenets,
as, upon their first appearance as a sect, they did not by any means profess the principle
of non-resistance, which they afterwards adopted. [S.]]

[Footnote 3: The Quaker hinted at by Dr. Swift was Mr. George Rooke, a linen-draper. [S.]]

*****       *****       *****       *****       *****

TEN REASONS FOR REPEALING

THE TEST ACT.[1]

[Footnote 1: "This Tract is from a rare broadside copy. It appears to be written by the Dean,
and the arguments correspond with those he uses elsewhere"  So says Scott; but Monck Mason
considers this tract no more the work of Swift than several others he mentions. See note prefixed
to "The Presbyterians' Plea of Merit." [T.S.]]

I.

Because the Presbyterians are people of such great interest in this kingdom, that there are
not above ten of their persuasion in the House of Commons, and but one in the House of Lords;
though they are not obliged to take the sacrament in the Established Church to qualify them
to be members of either House.

2. Because those of the Established Church of this kingdom are so disaffected to the King,
that not one of them worth mentioning, except the late Duke of Ormond,[2] has been concerned
in the rebellion; and that our Parliament, though there be so few Presbyterians, has, upon
all occasions, proved its loyalty to King George, and has readily agreed to and enacted what
might support his government.

[Footnote 2: James Butler, Duke of Ormond (1610-1688), was lieutenant-general of the army of
Ireland during the rebellion of 1641. After his defeat of General Preston, in 1643, he was
appointed Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland; but retired to France on the fall of the Stuart dynasty.
The execution of Charles caused Ormond to land again in Ireland for the purpose of rousing
that country in favour of the royal cause; but he forsook it on the landing of Cromwell. At
the Restoration he came over with Charles, and was raised, for his services, to the dukedom.
He was, however, deprived of his lord-lieutenancy for his friendship for the exiled Clarendon.
He had a narrow escape for his life from the plots of Colonel Blood, whom he forgave at the
request of the King. In 1682 he was rewarded by being promoted to an English dukedom. [T.S.]]

3. Because very few of the Presbyterians have lost an employment worth £20 per annum, for not
qualifying themselves according to the Test Act; nor will they accept of a militia commission,
though they do of one in the army.

4. Because, if they are not in the militia and other places of trust, the Pretender and his
adherents will destroy us; when he has no one to support him but the King of Spain; when King
George is at a good understanding with Sweden, Prussia, and Denmark; and when he has made the
best alliances in Christendom. When the Emperor, King of Great Britain, the French King, the
King of Sardinia, are all in the quadruple alliance against the Spaniard, his upstart cardinal,[3]
and the Pretender; when bloody plots against Great Britain and France are blown up; when the
Spanish fleet is quite dispersed; when the French army is overrunning Spain; and when the rebels
in Scotland are cut off.

[Footnote 3: Cardinal Julius Alberoni (1664-1752), born at Parma, obtained the favour, when
a humble parish priest, of the Duke of Vendôme, by informing that general of the whereabouts
of some corn, which the country folk had hidden. He followed the Duke to Spain, and was successful
in bringing about the marriage between the Princess of Parma and Philip V. For this service
he was made Prime Minister of Spain, a cardinal, and Archbishop of Valencia. He entered heartily
into Philip's designs for recovering Spain's lost territory, and showed even more boldness
than his royal master in their execution. His reduction of Sardinia precipitated the alliance
between England, France, Holland, and afterwards, Austria. Spain, with Alberoni as its guiding
spirit, supported the Jacobite cause to harass England, and conquered Sicily. But at Messina
the Spanish fleet was destroyed by the English, and in the north of Spain the forces of Philip
were repulsed by the French. In the end, Spain gave way, and Alberoni was dismissed to retire
to Rome, and to be safely lodged in the Jesuits' College there. On his release he returned
to his native town, but died at Rome. [T.S.]]

5. The test clause should be repealed, because it is a defence against the reformation the
Presbyterians long since promised the churches of England and Ireland, viz.

[Footnote 4: Vide "Confession of Faith," pp. 304, 305.]

6. Because the Presbyterian Church-Government may be independent of the state. The Lord Jesus
is King and Head of his Church;[5] hath therein appointed a government in the hands of church-officers,
distinct from the civil magistrate. As magistrates may lawfully call a synod of ministers to
consult and advise with about matters of religion; so, if magistrates be open enemies to the
Church, the ministers of Christ of themselves, by virtue of their office, or they with other
fit persons, upon delegation from their churches, may meet together in such assemblies.[6]

[Footnote 5: "Confession of Faith," p. 87.]

[Footnote 6: Ibid., pp. 88, 89.]

7. Because they have not the free use of their religion, when they disdain a toleration.

8. Because they have so much charity for Episcopacy, as to account it iniquitous. The address
of the General Assembly to the Duke of Queensbury in the late reign says, that to tolerate
the Episcopal clergy in Scotland would be to establish iniquity by a law.

9. Because repealing the test clause will probably disoblige ten of his Majesty's good subjects,
for one it can oblige.

10. Because, if the test clause be repealed, the Presbyterians may with the better grace get
into employments, and the easier worm out those of the Established Church.

*****       *****       *****       *****       *****

SERMONS.

The following Form of Prayer, which Dr. Swift constantly used in the pulpit before his sermon,
is copied from his own handwriting:

"Almighty and most merciful God! forgive us all our sins. Give us grace heartily to repent
them, and to lead new lives. Graft in our hearts a true love and veneration for thy holy name
and word. Make thy pastors burning and shining lights, able to convince gainsayers, and to
save others and themselves. Bless this congregation here met together in thy name; grant them
to hear and receive thy holy word, to the salvation of their own souls. Lastly, we desire to
return thee praise and thanksgiving for all thy mercies bestowed upon us; but chiefly for the
Fountain of them all, Jesus Christ our Lord, in whose name and words we further call upon thee,
saying, 'Our Father,' &c."

NOTE.

These twelve sermons are what have been handed down to us of a bundle of thirty-five which
Swift, some years before his death, gave to Dr. Sheridan. Swift had no great opinion of them
himself, if we may judge from what he said to his friend when he offered him the bundle. "You
may have them if you please; they may be of use to you, they never were of any to me." There
is not much in any of them of that quality which characterizes the average sermon. For the
artifices of rhetoric which are usually employed to move hearers Swift had no small contempt.
He aimed to convince the mind by plain statements of common-sense views. He had no faith in
a conviction brought about under the stress of emotional excitement. His sermons exactly answer
to the advice he gave a young clergyman--"First tell the people what is their duty, and then
convince them that it is so." In the note to his reprint of these sermons Sir Walter Scott
has very admirably summed up their qualities.

"The Sermons of Swift," says Scott, "have none of that thunder which appals, or that resistless
and winning softness which melts, the hearts of an audience. He can never have enjoyed the
triumph of uniting hundreds in one ardent sentiment of love, of terror, or of devotion. His
reasoning, however powerful, and indeed unanswerable, convinces the understanding, but is never
addressed to the heart; and, indeed, from his instructions to a young clergyman, he seems hardly
to have considered pathos as a legitimate ingredient in an English sermon. Occasionally, too,
Swift's misanthropic habits break out even from the pulpit; nor is he altogether able to suppress
his disdain of those fellow mortals, on whose behalf was accomplished the great work of redemption.
With such unamiable feelings towards his hearers, the preacher might indeed command their respect,
but could never excite their sympathy. It may be feared that his Sermons were less popular
from another cause, imputable more to the congregation than to the pastor. Swift spared not
the vices of rich or poor; and, disdaining to amuse the imaginations of his audience with discussion
of dark points of divinity, or warm them by a flow of sentimental devotion, he rushes at once
to the point of moral depravity, and upbraids them with their favourite and predominant vices
in a tone of stern reproof, bordering upon reproach. In short, he tears the bandages from their
wounds, like the hasty surgeon of a crowded hospital, and applies the incision knife and caustic
with salutary, but rough and untamed severity. But, alas! the mind must be already victorious
over the worst of its evil propensities, that can profit by this harsh medicine. There is a
principle of opposition in our nature, which mans itself with obstinacy even against avowed
truth, when it approaches our feelings in a harsh and insulting manner. And Swift was probably
sensible, that his discourses, owing to these various causes, did not produce the powerful
effects most grateful to the feelings of the preacher, because they reflect back to him those
of the audience.

"But although the Sermons of Swift are deficient in eloquence, and were lightly esteemed by
their author, they must not be undervalued by the modern reader. They exhibit, in an eminent
degree, that powerful grasp of intellect which distinguished the author above all his contemporaries.
In no religious discourses can be found more sound good sense, more happy and forcible views
of the immediate subject. The reasoning is not only irresistible, but managed in a mode so
simple and clear, that its force is obvious to the most ordinary capacity. Upon all subjects
of morality, the preacher maintains the character of a rigid and inflexible monitor; neither
admitting apology for that which is wrong, nor softening the difficulty of adhering to that
which is right; a stern stoicism of doctrine, that may fail in finding many converts, but leads
to excellence in the few manly minds who dare to embrace it. In treating the doctrinal points
of belief, (as in his Sermon upon the Trinity,) Swift systematically refuses to quit the high
and pre-eminent ground which the defender of Christianity is entitled to occupy, or to submit
to the test of human reason, mysteries which are placed, by their very nature, far beyond our
finite capacities. Swift considered, that, in religion, as in profane science, there must be
certain ultimate laws which are to be received as fundamental truths, although we are incapable
of defining or analysing their nature; and he censures those divines, who, in presumptuous
confidence of their own logical powers, enter into controversy upon such mysteries of faith,
without considering that they give thereby the most undue advantage to the infidel. Our author
wisely and consistently declared reason an incompetent judge of doctrines, of which God had
declared the fact, concealing from man the manner. He contended, that he who, upon the whole,
receives the Christian religion as of divine inspiration, must be contented to depend upon
God's truth, and his holy word, and receive with humble faith the mysteries which are too high
for comprehension. Above all, Swift points out, with his usual forcible precision, the mischievous
tendency of those investigations which, while they assail one fundamental doctrine of the Christian
religion, shake and endanger the whole fabric, destroy the settled faith of thousands, pervert
and mislead the genius of the learned and acute, destroy and confound the religious principles
of the simple and ignorant."

In 1744, Faulkner printed three sermons as a single volume; these were "On Mutual Subjection,"
"On Conscience," and "On the Trinity." The other sermons appeared in the various editions issued
by Nichols and others. The text here given is that of the volume of 1744, of Hawkesworth and Scott.

[T.S.]

ON MUTUAL SUBJECTION.

I PETER, V. 5.

"--Yea, all of you be subject one to another."

The Apostle having in many parts of this epistle given directions to Christians concerning
the duty of subjection or obedience to superiors; in the several instances of the subject to
his prince, the child to his parent, the servant to his master, the wife to her husband, and
the younger to the elder; doth here, in the words of my text, sum up the whole, by advancing
a point of doctrine, which at first may appear a little extraordinary: "Yea, all of you," saith
he, "be subject one to another." For it should seem, that two persons cannot properly be said
to be subject to each other, and that subjection is only due from inferiors to those above
them: yet St Paul hath several passages to the same purpose. For he exhorts the Romans, "in
honour to prefer one another:"[1] and the Philippians, "that in lowliness of mind they should
each esteem other better than themselves;"[2] and the Ephesians, "that they should submit themselves
one to another in the fear of the Lord."[3] Here we find these two great apostles recommending
to all Christians this duty of mutual subjection. For we may observe by St Peter, that having
mentioned the several relations which men bear to each other, as governor and subject, master
and servant, and the rest which I have already repeated, he maketh no exception, but sums up
the whole with commanding "all to be subject one to another." From whence we may conclude,
that this subjection due from all men to all men, is something more than the compliment of
course, when our betters are pleased to tell us they are our humble servants, but understand
us to be their slaves.

[Footnote 1: Rom. xii. 10.]

[Footnote 2: Philip. ii. 3.]

[Footnote 3: Ephes. v. 21.]

I know very well, that some of those who explain this text, apply it to humility, to the duties
of charity, to private exhortations, and to bearing with each other's infirmities: And it is
probable, the apostle may have had a regard to all these: But however, many learned men agree,
that there is something more understood, and so the words in their plain natural meaning must
import; as you will observe yourselves, if you read them with the beginning of the verse, which
is thus: "Likewise ye younger submit yourselves unto the elder; yea, all of you be subject
one to another." So, that upon the whole, there must be some kind of subjection due from every
man to every man, which cannot be made void by any power, pre-eminence, or authority whatsoever.
Now, what sort of subjection this is, and how it ought to be paid, shall be the subject of
my present discourse.

As God hath contrived all the works of nature to be useful, and in some manner a support to
each other, by which the whole frame of the world under his providence is preserved and kept
up; so, among mankind, our particular stations are appointed to each of us by God Almighty,
wherein we are obliged to act, as far as our power reacheth, toward the good of the whole community.
And he who doth not perform that part assigned him, toward advancing the benefit of the whole,
in proportion to his opportunities and abilities, is not only a useless, but a very mischievous
member of the public: Because he taketh his share of the profit, and yet leaves his share of
the burden to be borne by others, which is the true principal cause of most miseries and misfortunes
in life. For, a wise man who doth not assist with his counsels, a great man with his protection,
a rich man with his bounty and charity, and a poor man with his labour, are perfect nuisances
in a commonwealth. Neither is any condition of life more honourable in the sight of God than
another; otherwise he would be a respecter of persons, which he assureth us he is not: For
he hath proposed the same salvation to all men, and hath only placed them in different ways
or stations to work it out. Princes are born with no more advantages of strength or wisdom
than other men; and, by an unhappy education, are usually more defective in both than thousands
of their subjects. They depend for every necessary of life upon the meanest of their people:
Besides, obedience and subjection were never enjoined by God to humour the passions, lusts,
and vanities of those who demand them from us; but we are commanded to obey our governors,
because disobedience would breed seditions in the state. Thus servants are directed to obey
their masters, children their parents, and wives their husbands; not from any respect of persons
in God, but because otherwise there would be nothing but confusion in private families. This
matter will be clearly explained, by considering the comparison which St Paul maketh between
the Church of Christ and the body of man: For the same resemblance will hold, not only to families
and kingdoms, but to the whole corporation of mankind. "The eye," saith he,[4] "cannot say
unto the hand, I have no need of thee; nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of thee.
Nay, much more, those members of the body which seem to be more feeble, are necessary. The
case is directly the same among mankind. The prince cannot say to the merchant, I have no need
of thee; nor the merchant to the labourer, I have no need of thee. Nay, much more those members,
&c. For the poor are generally more necessary members of the commonwealth than the rich: Which
clearly shews, that God never intented such possessions for the sake and service of those to
whom he lends them: but because he hath assigned every man his particular station to be useful
in life; and this for the reason given by the apostle, "that there should be no schism in the
body."[5]

[Footnote 4: 1 Corin. xii. 21, 23, 26.]

[Footnote 5: 1 Corin. xii. 25.]

From hence may partly be gathered the nature of that subjection which we all owe to one another.
God Almighty hath been pleased to put us into an imperfect state, where we have perpetual occasion
of each other's assistance. There is none so low, as not to be in a capacity of assisting the
highest; nor so high, as not to want the assistance of the lowest.

It plainly appears from what hath been said, that no one human creature is more worthy than
another in the sight of God; farther, than according to the goodness or holiness of their lives;
and, that power, wealth, and the like outward advantages, are so far from being the marks of
God's approving or preferring those on whom they are bestowed, that, on the contrary, he is
pleased to suffer them to be almost engrossed by those who have least title to his favour.
Now, according to this equality wherein God hath placed all mankind, with relation himself,
you will observe, that in all the relations between man and man, there is a mutual dependence,
whereby the one cannot subsist without the other. Thus, no man can be a prince without subjects,
nor a master without servants, nor a father without children. And this both explains and confirms
the doctrine of the text: For, where there is a mutual dependence, there must be a mutual duty,
and consequently a mutual subjection. For instance, the subject must only obey his prince,
because God commands it, human laws require it, and the safety of the public maketh it necessary:
(For the same reasons we must obey all that are in authority, and submit ourselves, not only
to the good and gentle, but also to the froward, whether they rule according to our liking
or no.) On the other side, in those countries that pretend to freedom, princes are subject
to those laws which their people have chosen; they are bound to protect their subjects in liberty,
property, and religion; to receive their petitions, and redress their grievances: So, that
the best prince is, in the opinion of wisemen, only the greatest servant of the nation; not
only a servant to the public in general, but in some sort to every man in it. In the like manner,
a servant owes obedience, and diligence and faithfulness to his master, from whom, at the same
time, he hath a just demand for protection, and maintenance, and gentle treatment. Nay, even
the poor beggar hath a just demand of an alms from the rich man, who is guilty of fraud, injustice,
and oppression, if he doth not afford relief according to his abilities.

But this subjection we all owe one another is nowhere more necessary than in the common conversations
of life; for without it there could be no society among men. If the learned would not sometimes
submit to the ignorant, the wise to the simple, the gentle to the froward, the old to the weaknesses
of the young, there would be nothing but everlasting variance in the world. This our Saviour
himself confirmed by his own example; for he appeared in the form of a servant, and washed
his disciples' feet, adding those memorable words: "Ye call me Lord and Master, and ye say
well, for so I am. If I then your Lord and Master wash your feet, how much more ought ye to
wash one another's feet?" Under which expression of washing the feet, is included all that
subjection, assistance, love, and duty, which every good Christian ought to pay his brother,
in whatever station God hath placed him. For the greatest prince and the meanest slave, are
not, by infinite degrees so distant, as our Saviour and those disciples whose feet he vouchsafed
to wash.

And, although this doctrine of subjecting ourselves to one another may seem to grate upon the
pride and vanity of mankind, and may therefore be hard to be digested by those who value themselves
upon their greatness or their wealth; yet, it is really no more than what most men practise
upon other occasions. For, if our neighbour who is our inferior comes to see us, we rise to
receive him, we place him above us, and respect him as if he were better than ourselves; and
this is thought both decent and necessary, and is usually called good manners. Now the duty
required by the apostle, is only that we should enlarge our minds, and that what we thus practice
in the common course of life, we should imitate in all our actions and proceedings whatsoever;
since our Saviour tells us, that every man is our neighbour, and since we are so ready in the
point of civility, to yield to others in our own houses, where only we have any title to govern.

Having thus shewn you what sort of subjection it is which all men owe one to another, and in
what manner it ought to be paid, I shall now draw some observations from what hath been said.

And first: A thorough practice of this duty of subjecting ourselves to the wants and infirmities
of each other, would utterly extinguish in us the vice of pride. For, if God hath pleased to
entrust me with a talent, not for my own sake, but for the service of others, and at the same
time hath left me full of wants and necessities which others must supply; I can then have no
cause to set any extraordinary value upon myself, or to despise my brother, because he hath
not the same talents which were lent to me. His being may probably be as useful to the public
as mine; and, therefore, by the rules of right reason, I am in no sort preferable to him.

Secondly: It is very manifest, from what hath been said, that no man ought to look upon the
advantages of life, such as riches, honour, power, and the like, as his property, but merely
as a trust, which God hath deposited with him, to be employed for the use of his brethren;
and God will certainly punish the breach of that trust, although the laws of man will not,
or rather indeed cannot; because the trust was conferred only by God, who hath not left it
to any power on earth to decide infallibly whether a man maketh a good use of his talents or
no, or to punish him where he fails. And therefore God seems to have more particularly taken
this matter into his own hands, and will most certainly reward or punish us in proportion to
our good or ill performance in it. Now, although the advantages which one man possesseth more
than another, may in some sense be called his property with respect to other men, yet with
respect to God they are, as I said, only a trust: which will plainly appear from hence. If
a man doth not use those advantages to the good of the public, or the benefit of his neighbour,
it is certain he doth not deserve them; and consequently, that God never intended them for
a blessing to him; and on the other side, whoever doth employ his talents as he ought, will
find by his own experience, that they were chiefly lent him for the service of others: for
to the service of others he will certainly employ them.

Thirdly: If we could all be brought to practise this duty of subjecting ourselves to each other,
it would very much contribute to the general happiness of mankind: for this would root out
envy and malice from the heart of man; because you cannot envy your neighbour's strength, if
he maketh use of it to defend your life, or carry your burden; you cannot envy his wisdom,
if he gives you good counsel; nor his riches, if he supplieth you in your wants; nor his greatness,
if he employs it to your protection. The miseries of life are not properly owing to the unequal
distribution of things; but God Almighty, the great King of Heaven, is treated like the kings
of the earth; who, although perhaps intending well themselves, have often most abominable ministers
and stewards; and those generally the vilest, to whom they entrust the most talents. But here
is the difference, that the princes of this world see by other men's eyes, but God sees all
things; and therefore whenever he permits his blessings to be dealt among those who are unworthy,
we may certainly conclude that he intends them only as a punishment to an evil world, as well
as to the owners. It were well, if those would consider this, whose riches serve them only
as a spur to avarice, or as an instrument to their lusts; whose wisdom is only of this world,
to put false colours upon things, to call good evil, and evil good, against the conviction
of their own consciences; and lastly, who employ their power and favour in acts of oppression
or injustice, in misrepresenting persons and things, or in countenancing the wicked to the
ruin of the innocent.

Fourthly: The practice of this duty of being subject to one another, would make us rest contented
in the several stations of life wherein God hath thought fit to place us; because it would
in the best and easiest manner bring us back as it were to that early state of the Gospel when
Christians had all things in common. For, if the poor found the rich disposed to supply their
wants; if the ignorant found the wise ready to instruct and direct them; or if the weak might
always find protection from the mighty; they could none of them with the least pretence of
justice lament their own condition.

From all that hath been hitherto said, it appears, that great abilities of any sort, when they
are employed as God directs, do but make the owners of them greater and more painful servants
to their neighbour, and the public; however, we are by no means to conclude from hence, that
they are not really blessings, when they are in the hands of good men. For first, what can
be a greater honour than to be chosen one of the stewards and dispensers of God's bounty to
mankind? What is there, that can give a generous spirit more pleasure and complacency of mind,
than to consider that he is an instrument of doing much good? that great numbers owe to him,
under God, their subsistence, their safety, their health, and the good conduct of their lives?
The wickedest man upon earth taketh a pleasure in doing good to those he loveth; and therefore
surely a good Christian, who obeys our Saviour's command of loving all men, cannot but take
delight in doing good even to his enemies. God, who giveth all things to all men, can receive
nothing from any; and those among men, who do the most good, and receive the fewest returns,
do most resemble their Creator: for which reason, St Paul delivereth it as a saying of our
Saviour, that "it is more blessed to give than to receive." By this rule, what must become
of those things which the world valueth as the greatest blessings, riches, power, and the like,
when our Saviour plainly determines, that the best way to make them blessings, is to part with
them? Therefore, although the advantages which one man hath over another, may be called blessings,
yet they are by no means so in the sense the world usually understands. Thus, for example,
great riches are no blessing in themselves; because the poor man, with the common necessaries
of life enjoys more health, and hath fewer cares without them: How then do they become blessings?
No otherwise, than by being employed in feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, rewarding worthy
men, and in short, doing acts of charity and generosity. Thus likewise, power is no blessing
in itself, because private men bear less envy, and trouble, and anguish without it. But when
it is employed to protect the innocent, to relieve the oppressed, and to punish the oppressor,
then it becomes a great blessing. And so lastly even great wisdom is in the opinion of Solomon
not a blessing in itself: For "in much wisdom is much sorrow;" and men of common understandings,
if they serve God and mind their callings, make fewer mistakes in the conduct of life than
those who have better heads. And yet, wisdom is a mighty blessing, when it is applied to good
purposes, to instruct the ignorant, to be a faithful counsellor either in public or private,
to be a director to youth, and to many other ends needless here to mention.

To conclude: God sent us into the world to obey his commands, by doing as much good as our
abilities will reach, and as little evil as our many infirmities will permit. Some he hath
only trusted with one talent, some with five, and some with ten. No man is without his talent;
and he that is faithful or negligent in a little, shall be rewarded or punished, as well as
he that hath been so in a great deal.

Consider what hath been said; and the Lord give you a right understanding in all things. To
whom with the Son and the Holy Ghost, be all honour and glory, now and for ever.

ON THE TESTIMONY OF CONSCIENCE.

2 CORINTHIANS, I. 12. PART OF IT.

"----For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience."

There is no word more frequently in the mouths of men, than that of conscience, and the meaning
of it is in some measure generally understood: However, because it is likewise a word extremely
abused by many people, who apply other meanings to it, which God Almighty never intended; I
shall explain it to you in the clearest manner I am able. The word conscience properly signifies,
that knowledge which a man hath within himself of his own thoughts and actions. And, because,
if a man judgeth fairly of his own actions by comparing them with the law of God, his mind
will either approve or condemn him according as he hath done good or evil; therefore this knowledge
or conscience may properly be called both an accuser and a judge. So that whenever our conscience
accuseth us, we are certainly guilty; but we are not always innocent when it doth not accuse
us: For very often, through the hardness of our hearts, or the fondness and favour we bear
to ourselves, or through ignorance or neglect, we do not suffer our conscience to take any
cognizance of several sins we commit. There is another office likewise belonging to conscience,
which is that of being our director and guide; and the wrong use of this hath been the occasion
of more evils under the sun, than almost all other causes put together. For, as conscience
is nothing else but the knowledge we have of what we are thinking and doing; so it can guide
us no farther than that knowledge reacheth. And therefore God hath placed conscience in us
to be our director only in those actions which Scripture and reason plainly tell us to be good
or evil. But in cases too difficult or doubtful for us to comprehend or determine, there conscience
is not concerned; because it cannot advise in what it doth not understand, nor decide where
it is itself in doubt: but, by God's great mercy, those difficult points are never of absolute
necessity to our salvation. There is likewise another evil, that men often say, a thing is
against their conscience, when really it is not. For instance: Ask any of those who differ
from the worship established, why they do not come to church? They will say, they dislike the
ceremonies, the prayers, the habits, and the like, and therefore it goes against their conscience:
But they are mistaken, their teacher hath put those words into their mouths; for a man's conscience
can go no higher than his knowledge; and therefore until he has thoroughly examined by Scripture,
and the practice of the ancient church, whether those points are blameable or no, his conscience
cannot possibly direct him to condemn them. Hence have likewise arisen those mistakes about
what is usually called "Liberty of Conscience"; which, properly speaking, is no more than a
liberty of knowing our own thoughts; which liberty no one can take from us. But those words
have obtained quite different meanings: Liberty of conscience is now-a-days not only understood
to be the liberty of believing what men please, but also of endeavouring to propagate the belief
as much as they can, and to overthrow the faith which the laws have already established, to
be rewarded by the public for those wicked endeavours: And this is the liberty of conscience
which the fanatics are now openly in the face of the world endeavouring at with their utmost
application. At the same time it cannot but be observed, that those very persons, who under
pretence of a public spirit and tenderness towards their Christian brethren, are so zealous
for such a liberty of conscience as this, are of all others the least tender to those who differ
from them in the smallest point relating to government; and I wish I could not say, that the
Majesty of the living God may be offended with more security than the memory of a dead prince.
But the wisdom of the world at present seems to agree with that of the heathen Emperor, who
said, if the gods were offended, it was their own concern, and they were able to vindicate
themselves.[1]

[Footnote 1: The saying of Tiberius as given by Tacitus ("Annals," bk. i., c. lxxiii.), Deorum
offensa diis curæ. [T.S.]]

But although conscience hath been abused to those wicked purposes which I have already related,
yet a due regard to the directions it plainly giveth us, as well as to its accusations, reproaches,
and advices, would be of the greatest use to mankind, both for their present welfare and future
happiness.

Therefore, my discourse at this time shall be directed to prove to you, that there is no solid,
firm foundation for virtue, but on a conscience which is guided by religion.

In order to this, I shall first shew you the weakness and uncertainty of two false principles,
which many people set up in the place of conscience, for a guide to their actions.

The first of these principles is, what the world usually calls Moral Honesty. There are some
people, who appear very indifferent as to religion, and yet have the repute of being just and
fair in their dealings; and these are generally known by the character of good moral men. But
now, if you look into the grounds and the motives of such a man's actions, you shall find them
to be no other than his own ease and interest. For example: You trust a moral man with your
money in the way of trade; you trust another with the defence of your cause at law, and perhaps
they both deal justly with you. Why? Not from any regard they have for justice, but because
their fortune depends upon their credit, and a stain of open public dishonesty must be to their
disadvantage. But let it consist with such a man's interest and safety to wrong you, and then
it will be impossible you can have any hold upon him; because there is nothing left to give
him a check, or put in the balance against his profit. For, if he hath nothing to govern himself
by, but the opinion of the world, as long as he can conceal his injustice from the world, he
thinks he is safe.

Besides, it is found by experience, that those men who set up for morality without regard to
religion, are generally but virtuous in part; they will be just in their dealings between man
and man; but if they find themselves disposed to pride, lust, intemperance, or avarice, they
do not think their morality concerned to check them in any of these vices, because it is the
great rule of such men, that they may lawfully follow the dictates of nature, wherever their
safety, health, and fortune, are not injured. So, that upon the whole, there is hardly one
vice which a mere moral man may not upon some occasions allow himself to practise.

The other false principle, which some men set up in the place of conscience to be their director
in life, is what those who pretend to it, call Honour.

This word is often made the sanction of an oath; it is reckoned a great commendation to be
a man of strict honour; and it is commonly understood, that a man of honour can never be guilty
of a base action. This is usually the style of military men; of persons with titles; and of
others who pretend to birth and quality. It is true, indeed, that in ancient times it was universally
understood, that honour was the reward of virtue; but if such honour as is now-a-days going
will not permit a man to do a base action, it must be allowed, there are very few such things
as base actions in nature. No man of honour, as that word is usually understood, did ever pretend
that his honour obliged him to be chaste or temperate; to pay his creditors; to be useful to
his country; to do good to mankind; to endeavour to be wise, or learned; to regard his word,
his promise, or his oath; or if he hath any of these virtues, they were never learned in the
catechism of honour; which contains but two precepts, the punctual payment of debts contracted
at play, and the right understanding the several degrees of an affront, in order to revenge
it by the death of an adversary.

But suppose, this principle of honour, which some men so much boast of, did really produce
more virtues than it ever pretended to; yet since the very being of that honour dependeth upon
the breath, the opinion, or the fancy of the people, the virtues derived from it could be of
no long or certain duration. For example: Suppose a man from a principle of honour should resolve
to be just, or chaste, or temperate; and yet the censuring world should take a humour of refusing
him those characters; he would then think the obligation at an end. Or, on the other side,
if he thought he could gain honour by the falsest and vilest action, (which is a case that
very often happens,) he would then make no scruple to perform it. And God knows, it would be
an unhappy state, to have the religion, the liberty, or the property of a people lodged in
such hands, which however hath been too often the case.

What I have said upon this principle of honour may perhaps be thought of small concernment
to most of you who are my hearers: However, a caution was not altogether unnecessary; since
there is nothing by which not only the vulgar, but the honest tradesman hath been so much deceived,
as this infamous pretence to honour in too many of their betters.

Having thus shewn you the weakness and uncertainty of those principles which some men set up
in the place of conscience to direct them in their actions, I shall now endeavour to prove
to you that there is no solid, firm foundation of virtue, but in a conscience directed by the
principles of religion.

There is no way of judging how far we may depend upon the actions of men, otherwise than by
knowing the motives, and grounds, and causes of them; and, if the motives of our actions be
not resolved and determined into the law of God, they will be precarious and uncertain, and
liable to perpetual changes. I will shew you what I mean, by an example: Suppose a man thinks
it his duty to obey his parents, because reason tells him so, because he is obliged by gratitude,
and because the laws of his country command him to do so; but, if he stops here, his parents
can have no lasting security; for an occasion may happen, wherein it may be extremely his interest
to be disobedient, and where the laws of the land can lay no hold upon him: therefore, before
such a man can safely be trusted, he must proceed farther, and consider, that his reason is
the gift of God; that God commanded him to be obedient to the laws, and did moreover in a particular
manner enjoin him to be dutiful to his parents; after which, if he lays due weight upon those
considerations, he will probably continue in his duty to the end of his life: Because no earthly
interest can ever come in competition to balance the danger of offending his Creator, or the
happiness of pleasing him. And of all this his conscience will certainly inform him, if he
hath any regard to religion.

Secondly: Fear and hope are the two greatest natural motives of all men's actions: But, neither
of these passions will ever put us in the way of virtue, unless they be directed by conscience.
For although virtuous men do sometimes accidentally make their way to preferment, yet the world
is so corrupted, that no man can reasonably hope to be rewarded in it, merely upon account
of his virtue. And consequently, the fear of punishment in this life will preserve men from
very few vices, since some of the blackest and basest do often prove the surest steps to favour;
such as ingratitude, hypocrisy, treachery, malice, subornation, atheism, and many more which
human laws do little concern themselves about. But when conscience placeth before us the hopes
of everlasting happiness, and the fears of everlasting misery, as the reward and punishment
of our good or evil actions, our reason can find no way to avoid the force of such an argument,
otherwise than by running into infidelity.

Lastly: Conscience will direct us to love God, and to put our whole trust and confidence in
him. Our love of God will inspire us with a detestation for sin, as what is of all things most
contrary to his divine nature; and if we have an entire confidence in him, that will enable
us to subdue and despise all the allurements of the world.

It may here be objected, if conscience be so sure a director to us Christians in the conduct
of our lives, how comes it to pass, that the ancient heathens, who had no other lights but
those of nature and reason, should so far exceed us in all manner of virtue, as plainly appears
by many examples they have left on record?

To which it may be answered; first, those heathens were extremely strict and exact in the education
of their children; whereas among us this care is so much laid aside, that the more God hath
blessed any man with estate or quality, just so much the less in proportion is the care he
taketh in the education of his children, and particularly of that child which is to inherit
his fortune: Of which the effects are visible enough among the great ones of the world. Again,
those heathens did in a particular manner instil the principle into their children, of loving
their country; which is so far otherwise now-a-days, that, of the several parties among us,
there is none of them that seems to have so much as heard, whether there be such a virtue in
the world; as plainly appears by their practices, and especially when they are placed in those
stations where they can only have opportunity of shewing it. Lastly; the most considerable
among the heathens did generally believe rewards and punishments in a life to come; which is
the great principle for conscience to work upon; Whereas too many of those who would be thought
the most considerable among us, do, both by their practices and their discourses, plainly affirm,
that they believe nothing at all of the matter.

Wherefore, since it hath manifestly appeared that a religious conscience is the only true solid
foundation upon which virtue can be built, give me leave, before I conclude, to let you see
how necessary such a conscience is, to conduct us in every station and condition of our lives.

That a religious conscience is necessary in any station, is confessed even by those who tell
us, that all religion was invented by cunning men, in order to keep the world in awe. For,
if religion, by the confession of its adversaries, be necessary towards the well-governing
of mankind; then every wise man in power will be sure not only to choose out for every station
under him such persons as are most likely to be kept in awe by religion, but likewise to carry
some appearance of it himself, or else he is a very weak politician. And accordingly in any
country where great persons affect to be open despisers of religion, their counsels will be
found at last to be fully as destructive to the state as to the church. Great abilities, without
the fear of God, are most dangerous instruments, when they are trusted with power. The laws
of man have thought fit, that those who are called to any office of trust should be bound by
an oath to the faithful discharge of it: But, an oath is an appeal to God, and therefore can
have no influence except upon those who believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those
that seek him, and a punisher of those who disobey him: And therefore, we see, the laws themselves
are forced to have recourse to conscience in these cases, because their penalties cannot reach
the arts of cunning men, who can find ways to be guilty of a thousand injustices without being
discovered, or at least without being punished. And the reason why we find so many frauds,
abuses, and corruptions, where any trust is conferred, can be no other, than that there is
so little conscience and religion left in the world, or at least that men in their choice of
instruments have private ends in view, which are very different from the service of the public.
Besides, it is certain, that men who profess to have no religion, are full as zealous to bring
over proselytes as any Papist or fanatic can be. And therefore, if those who are in station
high enough to be of influence or example to others; if those (I say) openly profess a contempt
or disbelief of religion, they will be sure to make all their dependents of their own principles;
and what security can the public expect from such persons, whenever their interests, or their
lusts, come into competition with their duty? It is very possible for a man who hath the appearance
of religion, and is a great pretender to conscience, to be wicked and a hypocrite; but, it
is impossible for a man who openly declares against religion, to give any reasonable security
that he will not be false and cruel, and corrupt, whenever a temptation offers, which he values
more than he does the power wherewith he was trusted. And, if such a man doth not betray his
cause and his master, it is only because the temptation was not properly offered, or the profit
was too small, or the danger was too great. And hence it is, that we find so little truth or
justice among us, because there are so very few, who either in the service of the public, or
in common dealings with each other, do ever look farther than their own advantage, and how
to guard themselves against the laws of the country; which a man may do by favour, by secrecy,
or by cunning, although he breaks almost every law of God.

Therefore to conclude: It plainly appears, that unless men are guided by the advice and judgment
of a conscience founded on religion, they can give no security that they will be either good
subjects, faithful servants of the public, or honest in their mutual dealings; since there
is no other tie through which the pride, or lust, or avarice, or ambition of mankind will not
certainly break one time or other.

Consider what has been said, &c.

ON THE TRINITY.

I. EPIST.

This day being set apart to acknowledge our belief in the Eternal Trinity, I thought it might
be proper to employ my present discourse entirely upon that subject; and, I hope, to handle
it in such a manner, that the most ignorant among you may return home better informed of your
duty in this great point, than probably you are at present.

It must be confessed, that by the weakness and indiscretion of busy (or at best, of well-meaning)
people, as well as by the malice of those who are enemies to all revealed religion, and are
not content to possess their own infidelity in silence, without communicating it to the disturbance
of mankind; I say, by these means, it must be confessed, that the doctrine of the Trinity hath
suffered very much, and made Christianity suffer along with it. For these two things must be
granted: First, that men of wicked lives would be very glad there were no truth in Christianity
at all; and secondly, if they can pick out any one single article in the Christian religion
which appears not agreeable to their own corrupted reason, or to the arguments of those bad
people, who follow the trade of seducing others, they presently conclude, that the truth of
the whole Gospel must sink along with that one article; which is just as wise, as if a man
should say, because he dislikes one law of his country, he will therefore observe no law at
all; and yet, that one law may be very reasonable in itself, although he does not allow it,
or does not know the reason of the law-givers.

Thus it hath happened with the great doctrine of the Trinity; which word is indeed not in the
Scripture, but was a term of art invented in the earlier times to express the doctrine by a
single word, for the sake of brevity and convenience. The doctrine then, as delivered in Holy
Scripture, although not exactly in the same words, is very short, and amounts only to this,
that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, are each of them God, and yet there is but one
God. For, as to the word Person, when we say there are three Persons; and as to those other
explanations in the Athanasian Creed this day read to you (whether compiled by Athanasius or
no) they were taken up three hundred years after Christ, to expound this doctrine; and I will
tell you upon what occasion. About that time there sprang up a heresy of a people called Arians,
from one Arius the leader of them. These denied our Saviour to be God, although they allowed
all the rest of the Gospel (wherein they were more sincere than their followers among us).
Thus the Christian world was divided into two parts, until at length, by the zeal and courage
of St Athanasius, the Arians were condemned in a general council, and a creed formed upon the
true faith, as St Athanasius hath settled it. This creed is now read at certain times in our
churches, which, although it is useful for edification to those who understand it; yet, since
it containeth some nice and philosophical points which few people can comprehend, the bulk
of mankind is obliged to believe no more than the Scripture doctrine, as I have delivered it.
Because that creed was intended only as an answer to the Arians in their own way, who were
very subtle disputers.

But this heresy having revived in the world about a hundred years ago, and continued ever since;
not out of a zeal to truth, but to give a loose to wickedness, by throwing off all religion;
several divines, in order to answer the cavils of those adversaries to truth and morality,
began to find out farther explanations of this doctrine of the Trinity, by rules of philosophy;
which have multiplied controversies to such a degree, as to beget scruples that have perplexed
the minds of many sober Christians, who otherwise could never have entertained them.

I must therefore be bold to affirm, that the method taken by many of those learned men to defend
the doctrine of the Trinity, hath been founded upon a mistake.

It must be allowed, that every man is bound to follow the rules and directions of that measure
of reason which God hath given him; and indeed he cannot do otherwise, if he will be sincere,
or act like a man. For instance: If I should be commanded by an angel from heaven to believe
it is midnight at noon-day; yet I could not believe him. So, if I were directly told in Scripture
that three are one, and one is three, I could not conceive or believe it in the natural common
sense of that expression, but must suppose that something dark or mystical was meant, which
it pleased God to conceal from me and from all the world. Thus, in the text, "There are Three
that bear record," &c. Am I capable of knowing and defining what union and what distinction
there may be in the divine nature, which possibly may be hid from the angels themselves? Again,
I see it plainly declared in Scripture, that there is but one God; and yet I find our Saviour
claiming the prerogative of God in knowing men's thoughts; in saying, "He and his Father are
one;" and, "before Abraham was, I am." I read, that the disciples worshipped him; that Thomas
said to him, "My Lord and my God." I read likewise that the Holy Ghost bestowed the gift of
tongues, and the power of working miracles; which, if rightly considered, is as great a miracle
as any, that a number of illiterate men should of a sudden be qualified to speak all the languages
then known in the world; such as could be done by the inspiration of God done. From these several
texts it is plain, that God commands us to believe that there is an union and there is a distinction;
but what that union, or what that distinction is, all mankind are equally ignorant, and must
continue so, at least till the day of judgment, without some new revelation.

But because I cannot conceive the nature of this union and distinction in the divine nature,
am I therefore to reject them as absurd and impossible; as I would, if any one told me that
three men are one, and one man is three? We are told, that a man and his wife are one flesh;
this I can comprehend the meaning of; yet, literally taken, it is a thing impossible. But the
apostle tell us, "We see but in part, and we know but in part;" and yet we would comprehend
all the secret ways and workings of God.

Therefore I shall again repeat the doctrine of the Trinity, as it is positively affirmed in
Scripture: that God is there expressed in three different names, as Father, as Son, and as
Holy Ghost: that each of these is God, and that there is but one God. But this union and distinction
are a mystery utterly unknown to mankind.

This is enough for any good Christian to believe on this great article, without ever inquiring
any farther: And, this can be contrary to no man's reason, although the knowledge of it is
hid from him.

But there is another difficulty of great importance among those who quarrel with the doctrine
of the Trinity, as well as with several other articles of Christianity; which is, that our
religion abounds in mysteries, and these they are so bold as to revile as cant, imposture,
and priestcraft. It is impossible for us to determine for what reasons God thought fit to communicate
some things to us in part, and leave some part a mystery. But so it is in fact, and so the
Holy Scripture tells us in several places. For instance: the resurrection and change of our
bodies are called mysteries by St Paul: and our Saviour's incarnation is another: The Kingdom
of God is called a mystery by our Saviour, to be only known to his disciples; so is faith,
and the word of God by St Paul. I omit many others. So, that to declare against all mysteries
without distinction or exception, is to declare against the whole tenor of the New Testament.

There are two conditions that may bring a mystery under suspicion. First, when it is not taught
and commanded in Holy Writ; or, secondly, when the mystery turns to the advantage of those
who preach it to others. Now, as to the first, it can never be said, that we preach mysteries
without warrant from Holy Scripture, although I confess this of the Trinity may have sometimes
been explained by human invention, which might perhaps better have been spared. As to the second,
it will not be possible to charge the Protestant priesthood with proposing any temporal advantage
to themselves by broaching or multiplying, or preaching of mysteries. Does this mystery of
the Trinity, for instance, and the descent of the Holy Ghost, bring the least profit or power
to the preachers? No; it is as great a mystery to themselves as it is to the meanest of their
hearers; and may be rather a cause of humiliation, by putting their understanding in that point
upon a level with the most ignorant of their flock. It is true indeed, the Roman church hath
very much enriched herself by trading in mysteries, for which they have not the least authority
from Scripture, and were fitted only to advance their own temporal wealth and grandeur; such
as transubstantiation, the worshipping of images, indulgences for sins, purgatory, and masses
for the dead; with many more: But, it is the perpetual talent of those who have ill-will to
our Church, or a contempt for all religion, taken up by the wickedness of their lives, to charge
us with the errors and corruptions of Popery, which all Protestants have thrown off near two
hundred years: whereas, those mysteries held by us have no prospect of power, pomp, or wealth,
but have been ever maintained by the universal body of true believers from the days of the
apostles, and will be so to the resurrection; neither will the gates of hell prevail against them.

It may be thought perhaps a strange thing, that God should require us to believe mysteries,
while the reason or manner of what we are to believe is above our comprehension, and wholly
concealed from us: neither doth it appear at first sight, that the believing or not believing
them doth concern either the glory of God, or contribute to the goodness or wickedness of our
lives. But this is a great and dangerous mistake. We see what a mighty weight is laid upon
faith, both in the Old and New Testament. In the former we read how the faith of Abraham is
praised, who could believe that God would raise from him a great nation, at the very time that
he was commanded to sacrifice his only son, and despaired of any other issue. And this was
to him a great mystery. Our Saviour is perpetually preaching faith to his disciples, or reproaching
them with the want of it: and St Paul produceth numerous examples of the wonders done by faith.
And all this is highly reasonable: For faith is an entire dependence upon the truth, the power,
the justice, and the mercy of God; which dependence will certainly incline us to obey him in
all things. So, that the great excellency of faith, consists in the consequence it hath upon
our actions: as, if we depend upon the truth and wisdom of a man, we shall certainly be more
disposed to follow his advice. Therefore, let no man think that he can lead as good a moral
life without faith as with it; for this reason, because he who hath no faith, cannot, by the
strength of his own reason or endeavours, so easily resist temptations, as the other who depends
upon God's assistance in the overcoming his frailties, and is sure to be rewarded for ever
in heaven for his victory over them. "Faith," says the apostle, "is the evidence of things
not seen": he means, that faith is a virtue by which anything commanded us by God to believe
appears evident and certain to us, although we do not see, nor can conceive it; because, by
faith we entirely depend upon the truth and power of God.

It is an old and true distinction, that things may be above our reason, without being contrary
to it. Of this kind are the power, the nature, and the universal presence of God, with innumerable
other points. How little do those who quarrel with mysteries, know of the commonest actions
of nature! The growth of an animal, of a plant, or of the smallest seed, is a mystery to the
wisest among men. If an ignorant person were told that a loadstone would draw iron at a distance,
he might say it was a thing contrary to his reason, and could not believe before he saw it
with his eyes.

The manner whereby the soul and body are united, and how they are distinguished, is wholly
unaccountable to us. We see but one part, and yet we know we consist of two; and this is a
mystery we cannot comprehend, any more than that of the Trinity.

From what hath been said, it is manifest that God did never command us to believe, nor his
ministers to preach, any doctrine which is contrary to the reason he hath pleased to endow
us with; but for his own wise ends has thought fit to conceal from us the nature of the thing
he commands; thereby to try our faith and obedience, and increase our dependence upon him.

