(51) Lastly, from Job xxxviii:28, it is plain that God had ordained for the whole human race
the law to reverence God, to keep from evil doing, or to do well, and that Job, although a
Gentile, was of all men most acceptable to God, because he exceeded all in piety and religion. No. .. Do you keep quiet? Neither. Would you answer with a long and well-studied
speech? Less. It was not appropriate to say: "Ave Maria! D. Augustine, what things have you!
". The response to handsome gift was so difficult and complex, it would be best to entrust
paper. A letter! Happy idea. Amparo took paper and pen ... But the difficulties were such from
the first word that I threw the pen convinced of her inability to work so delicate. All he could think
of was pale, bland and affected, as if speaking for her a character in the novels of D. José
Ido. Nothing, no written papers. The style is a lie. The truth looks and silent.

Things are bubbling in your head, silly thought, projects that did, the dejection he felt at
once, set it in such a state of overexcitation, if was not the same madness, little he needed
to get there. Añadíanse frenzy so many reasons the wonders told by Philip that evening, which looked
exactly like the Thousand and One Nights consolidated to home style. In rebullicio he had in
his head, he saw Amparo taps bathroom, kitchen with many doors and stoves, the piles of clothes
and dishes, figurines Porcelain and the birds of the music box. And paced the room, giving air and
space effluvium anyone vain thoughts, and sat to watch carefully in the light, and went from one
place to another house.
 (57) It suffices, then, that we find in the Old Testament Gentiles,
and uncircumcised, as Noah, Enoch, Abimelech, Balaam, &c., exercising prophetic gifts; further,
that Hebrew prophets were sent by God, not only to their own nation but to many others also.
(58) Ezekiel prophesied to all the nations then known; Obadiah to none, that we are aware of,
save the Idumeans; and Jonah was chiefly the prophet to the Ninevites. (59) Isaiah bewails
and predicts the calamities, and hails the restoration not only of the Jews but also of other
nations, for he says (chap. xvi:9), "Therefore I will bewail Jazer with weeping;" and in chap.
xix. he foretells first the calamities and then the restoration of the Egyptians (see verses
19, 20, 21, 25), saying that God shall send them a Saviour to free them, that the Lord shall
be known in Egypt, and, further, that the Egyptians shall worship God with sacrifice and oblation;
and, at last, he calls that nation the blessed Egyptian people of God; all of which particulars
are specially noteworthy.

(60) Jeremiah is called, not the prophet of the Hebrew nation, but simply the prophet of the
nations (see Jer:i.5). (61) He also mournfully foretells the calamities of the nations, and
predicts their restoration, for he says (xlviii:31) of the Moabites, "Therefore will I howl
for Moab, and I will cryout for all Moab" (verse 36), "and therefore mine heart shall sound
for Moab like pipes;" in the end he prophesies their restoration, as also the restoration of
the Egyptians, Ammonites, and Elamites. Merciful God! Is it the end that the door of his house?

He put his hand on the knob of shiny metal.

"Is this - he thought - the first and last time I call here? ".

Do not have time to do more considerations.

Philip opened the door.

"Do you love ...?».

- It is not ... But whatever you ...

Amparo entered. And it was! ... Fate frowned, announcing a disaster.

These jokes of the time how heavy they are!

These apparent discrepancies eternal clock, making sometimes match
the steps of people, some not, contrary to human wishes always, and
to our, already hurt us, are the most readily visible in the large
reality of time.

While not appreciate the idea of ​​continuity without these frequent disengagement of our
steps with the toothed wheel that is not spent endless ever.

Art, abusing Perhaps for their own purposes, could not discredit
this hidden logic, on the terms machine rests private and public events,
and these come to be pedestal of the organism we call history.

"Do you know where he go?" - Said the Empress from the room.

- At
the home of Dona Marcelina Polo, Calle de la Estrella.

This morning I went to an appointment, and they told me at noon.

-
At midnight!

...

- Yes, ma'am ... I do not know how you found him.

Not ten minutes left.

Must go now Hita by street or alley of the Dog.

Have you come by Costanilla?

- Yes, and by car.

- Aguárdele you ... will soon return.

He went from classroom to cabinet, and then another that was ... yours.

Irony of fate!

Centeno is away ...

"Philip."

- Miss ...

- Nothing, nothing.

Is ...

Pulse gave him out again and run back home.

He represented in his dazed mind two papers written by her long before, two brief letters, full
of nonsense and greater shame that you could conceive ... His heart was not heart razor was
running wild shot and was going to break any time now ... Goodbye hope! At the time Knight entered
the apartment of the wife of mahogany, both spoke ...

"Philip."

-
Miss ...

- I'm ... show me the output.

I find it difficult to walk through this maze.

He took a few steps.

Lacked forces and sank down into a chair. Feared losing consciousness.

"Are you ill? ... Do you want to call Dona Marta? ".

- No, by God, do not call anyone.

Look over, please bring me a glass of water.

- At the time.

In the short time that Philip was out, Amparo spread their looks for the luxury room where he was.
"Here was I going to live - she thought, as fierce off the bottom rejected of his soul the
wild joy that he wanted to enter it -. I would live here ... because here I my life is finished.

"Thank
you - said to Philip, taking the glass of water and putting it on the table -. Now I'll to do
another favor. "

- What you send me.

- Well, you have the goodness
- Amparo said slowly, searching her bag and pulling out a paper -
go to the pharmacy, which is in the same street, two doors down ...
Take the recipe, I bring this medicine ... It's something that I take
every day for the nerves, you know .. Wait, have the money ... Prontito
runs, here I wait ...

- I at the time.

From the hallway, and rushed
back Centeno said

'If you do not get bored ...».

- What?

- Nothing,
I'm going to wind the music box of pajarucos. This will entertain
you while alone.

The orchestra began to play in miniature, and birds,
opening and flapping their Piquitos wings, it seemed that singing
in that forest enclosed in a lantern. Very satisfied of its occurrence,
Felipe went.

The unfortunate turned his attention to the birds during
very short time. Then he thought In its resolution, which was unbreakable.
In five minutes everything concluded. When he returned, he would find
her dead. What would you say? What would you do? ... Why would rage,
determined to kill her or to say terrible things, what was far worse
than death. How to support such a shame big? ... Impossible, impossible.
Killing all end soon. In the concern for suicide no longer occur to
the similarity that steps had to play or novel, and Thus their enthusiasm
cooled momentarily murderer. Abhorred affectation. But remembering
the cards, such was his horror of existence, but did not want Felipe
come back soon to conclude at once. (80) Therefore Moses had in view nothing beyond the special election of the Jews,
as I have explained it, and made no other request to God. (81) I confess that in Paul's Epistle
to the Romans, I find another text which carries more weight, namely, where Paul seems to teach
a different doctrine from that here set down, for he there says (Rom. iii:1): "What advantage
then hath the Jew? or what profit is there of circumcision? (82) Much every way: chiefly, because
that unto them were committed the oracles of God."

(83) But if we look to the doctrine which Paul especially desired to teach, we shall find nothing
repugnant to our present contention; on the contrary, his doctrine is the same as ours, for
he says (Rom. iii:29) "that God is the God of the Jews and of the Gentiles, and" (ch. ii:25,
26) "But,

if thou be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision. (84) Therefore if
the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted
for circumcision?" (85) Further, in chap. iv:verse 9, he says that all alike, Jew and Gentile,
were under sin, and that without commandment and law there is no sin. (86) Wherefore it is
most evident that to all men absolutely was revealed the law under which all lived - namely,
the law which has regard only to true virtue, not the law established in respect to, and in
the formation of a particular state and adapted to the disposition of a particular people. The home was today ... Do not be angry, sister - said running his hand by side
with flattery -. I had to pawn your shawl ...

Amparo was really angry, but the other found no better reason to placate these:

"To avoid this, dear, but you just have to bring many thousands of house of lords Bringas ... Open
boquirrita precious and asking, asking ... For them it would like
... Tell me, if not had done what I did today what would we eat?,
"we will stay with your cupcakes Astorga and your yard and a half
of tape?

".

Amparo, silent and overwhelmed with grief, had spread a cloth on the
rubber of a table skirts. Put up some chipped dishes, spoons with
the handle broken and two forks whose bone handles keys seemed ripped
from an old piano.

(90) It now only remains to us to answer the arguments of those who would persuade themselves
that the election of the Jews was not temporal, and merely in respect of their commonwealth,
but eternal; for, they say, we see the Jews after the loss of their commonwealth, and after
being scattered so many years and separated from all other nations, still surviving, which
is without parallel among other peoples, and further the Scriptures seem to teach that God
has chosen for Himself the Jews for ever, so that though they have lost their commonwealth,
they still nevertheless remain God's elect. 

"Do not cry, do not cry - Polo said a little stunned, staring at the tablecloth -. When I see you so
distressed I do not know how I feel. Indeed, a curse on us ...».

And pouring from his chest as big a sigh that seemed to snort a lion,
he meditated a short time, head on his hand.

Both weighed him an idea he had.

XVI

"I have an idea, Torment, I have an idea - he whispered like a whimper -. Here the say, and
do not laugh at it. It is an idea born in my solitude, raised in my sadness, and you both look
a little wild ... Is that because there is no help for me in this society, as I'm not as strong
as my passion and I've made in my state so great horror, I have been come to mind to land,
but a lot of land, between me and this country and I happened to my bones back in the latest
in the world, on an island in Asia, or in California or in any British colony ... There are beautiful
lands over there, land that is havens, where all is innocence of manners and true equality,
land without history, girl, where no one would question what he thinks, fertile fields, where
each crop trembling mystery land patriarchal societies begin and
which resemble those Bible paints for us.

I dream of breaking all over and leave there, forgetting what I've been and Following killing
of the big mistake of my life, it got me where I have called and misled the society and to
God, putting a mask to make people bu. "

Upon hearing this, flash of joy shone in the eyes of Torment, which at the purpose of migrate
looked easy solution to the terrible problem that was hampering their
lives and their future.

More soon turned its joy in disgust, when Polo said this:

"Yes, that's my idea ... go there, but taking you with me ... What,
are you scared?

Feeble!

Things look too near and you are afraid of even the flies.

The world is great, and God is bigger than the world ... Will you come? ".

- Yo! - Said the young woman making an effort to conceal his horror and shook her head.

- Give me a reason.

- Not.

- But one reason ...

- Not.

- I will answer you with a thousand
arguments that will convince fixed. I thought so much of it! ... I
have seen so clearly the smallness of our surroundings! ... Institutions
that seem so huge so terrible, so universal, are grains of sand, when
the thought shot this ball and go to where it is now is night. Beware
that the planet is large, care is great, and in it all kinds of things,
people! ... Lie to think ...

Torment not started to think about anything,
and if not, I'd think he meant. Silent, looked their own hands crossed
on his knees.

"Give me a reason - repeated Polo -; tell you something
that you have occurred.

(97) When the prophets, in speaking of this election which regards only true virtue, mixed
up much concerning sacrifices and ceremonies, and the rebuilding of the temple and city, they
wished by such figurative expressions, after the manner and nature of prophecy, to expound
matters spiritual, so as at the same time to show to the Jews, whose prophets they were, the
true restoration of the state and of the temple to be expected about the time of Cyrus.

(98) At the present time, therefore, there is absolutely nothing which the Jews can arrogate
to themselves beyond other people.

(99) As to their continuance so long after dispersion and the loss of empire, there is nothing
marvellous in it, for they so separated themselves from every other nation as to draw down
upon themselves universal hate, not only by their outward rites, rites conflicting with those
of other nations, but also by the sign of circumcision which they most scrupulously observe.

(100) That they have been preserved in great measure by Gentile hatred, experience demonstrates.
(101) When the king of Spain formerly compelled the Jews to embrace the State religion or to
go into exile, a large number of Jews accepted Catholicism. (102) Now, as these renegades were
admitted to all the native privileges of Spaniards, and deemed worthy of filling all honourable
offices, it came to pass that they straightway became so intermingled with the Spaniards as
to leave of themselves no relic or remembrance. 

"In five minutes ... without hesitation ... ie without any pain - thought Amparo, lost to the point
of looking at the paper as a friend sad -. It will not happen tomorrow.

"

Put it in the pocket of his suit, making her own desire to go to the
drugstore in search of your choice.

But when? ... That afternoon and at night either. It would be premature. Al next day ... no set time
...

The solitude in which was continued all afternoon, more sinister and
terrifying by the hour was spent.

Came one night and wet sky darkened, like a quagmire. Would believe that were to raise grass roofs,
and top felt the splash of the feet of passers in the mire of the streets.

Was six, seven, eight. Not a living soul came to the door of that house Green to pull the bell
cord. The nine, and no one was coming! At ten steps; but the steps were lost in another apartment.
At eleven doubt, anxiety, delirium. The twelve counted twelve times in the clock of the University
within the last hope had given themselves same. The one went short and elusive, blending in with
the 0:30. Hearing the two, mind of the Empress repeated deluded concept that drunk who said:
Two times one? That clock is wrong. The three were accompanied by distant ridges de gallo,
and four followed so closely on the three, who both seemed to neglect the time or were hours
twins. Amparo brief slumber hid the sound of five. But suddenly he saw the roof home. The day began
to get into it, that is, another day, following one another happened.

Dumbest thing ...! For on that day had to kill without mercy. Dawned raining also the land drinking
tears from heaven.

Amparo had not dressed because he had slept on
the couch dressed. She noted that I could not do anything without
making mistakes. To take a towel grabbed the candlestick.
(77) So much for the first point which I wished to explain and demonstrate. (86) All this absolutely
agrees with what was set out in our fourth point concerning natural law. (xiiii6, 17). Ivii:20)
"are like the troubled sea, for them there is no peace."

CHAPTER V. - OF THE CEREMONIAL LAW.

(9) Other passages of Scripture testify to the same truth, but these two will suffice. (11)
In all the five books commonly attributed to Moses nothing is promised, as I have said, beyond
temporal benefits, such as honours, fame, victories, riches, enjoyments, and health. 

"What you looking at? - He said Rosalia - have you noticed in the ring you bought for Augustine
you? ... Do not believe it's me that they appropriate what is foreign. The cousin told me yesterday
that he could take for me ...».

The bride did not answer.

(21) In Psalms xv. and xxiv. no mention is made of ceremonies, but only of moral doctrines,
inasmuch as there is no question of anything but blessedness, and blessedness is symbolically
promised: it is quite certain that the expressions, "the hill of God," and "His tents and the
dwellers therein," refer to blessedness and security of soul, not to the actual mount of Jerusalem
and the tabernacle of Moses, for these latter were not dwelt in by anyone, and only the sons
of Levi ministered there. 

Here's the reader some of the reasons why, following the serious altercation with Dona Rosa Don
Candido was made out to meet Montes de Oca. No spat by indiscretions had with his wife. What
scold! Is it needed for the settlement of a project that had been meditating for a short time this
part. I wanted as a doctor certifies that without risk of life was not possible the transfer
of the patient in the hospital de Paula, the new madhouse. Such were the thoughts that most concerned the spirit of Don Candido and
made him suffer the tortures of hell by the time we historian.

Now: of course desirable to proceed to the kidnapping of the girl? (Jer. ix:23.) (25) As though God had
said that, after the desolation of the city, He would require nothing special from the Jews
beyond the natural law by which all men are bound.

