History Primers. Edited by J.R. GREEN.

HISTORY OF FRANCE.

BY

CHARLOTTE M. YONGE. 1882.

CONTENTS.

                                     PAGE

CHAPTER I.

THE EARLIER KINGS OF FRANCE             1

CHAPTER II.

THE HUNDRED YEARS' WAR                 25

CHAPTER III.

THE STRUGGLE WITH BURGUNDY             43

CHAPTER IV.

THE ITALIAN WARS                       52

CHAPTER V.

THE WARS OF RELIGION                   63

CHAPTER VI.

POWER OF THE CROWN                     81

CHAPTER VII.

THE REVOLUTION                        102

CHAPTER VIII.

FRANCE SINCE THE REVOLUTION           116

FRANCE.

CHAPTER I.

THE EARLIER KINGS OF FRANCE.

1. France.--The country we now know as France is the tract of land shut in by the British Channel,
the Bay of Biscay, the Pyrenees, the Mediterranean, and the Alps. But this country only gained
the name of France by degrees. In the earliest days of which we have any account, it was peopled
by the Celts, and it was known to the Romans as part of a larger country which bore the name
of Gaul. After all of it, save the north-western moorlands, or what we now call Brittany, had
been conquered and settled by the Romans, it was overrun by tribes of the great Teutonic race,
the same family to which Englishmen belong. Of these tribes, the Goths settled in the provinces
to the south; the Burgundians, in the east, around the Jura; while the Franks, coming over
the rivers in its unprotected north-eastern corner, and making themselves masters of a far
wider territory, broke up into two kingdoms--that of the Eastern Franks in what is now Germany,
and that of the Western Franks reaching from the Rhine to the Atlantic. These Franks subdued
all the other Teutonic conquerors of Gaul, while they adopted the religion, the language, and
some of the civilization of the Romanized Gauls who became their subjects. Under the second
Frankish dynasty, the Empire was renewed in the West, where it had been for a time put an end
to by these Teutonic invasions, and the then Frankish king, Charles the Great, took his place
as Emperor at its head. But in the time of his grandsons the various kingdoms and nations of
which the Empire was composed, fell apart again under different descendants of his. One of
these, Charles the Bald, was made King of the Western Franks in what was termed the Neustrian,
or "not eastern," kingdom, from which the present France has sprung. This kingdom in name covered
all the country west of the Upper Meuse, but practically the Neustrian king had little power
south of the Loire; and the Celts of Brittany were never included in it.

2. The House of Paris.--The great danger which this Neustrian kingdom had to meet came from
the Northmen, or as they were called in England the Danes. These ravaged in Neustria as they
ravaged in England; and a large part of the northern coast, including the mouth of the Seine,
was given by Charles the Bald to Rolf or Rollo, one of their leaders, whose land became known
as the Northman's land, or Normandy. What most checked the ravages of these pirates was the
resistance of Paris, a town which commanded the road along the river Seine; and it was in defending
the city of Paris from the Northmen, that a warrior named Robert the Strong gained the trust
and affection of the inhabitants of the Neustrian kingdom. He and his family became Counts
(i.e., judges and protectors) of Paris, and Dukes (or leaders) of the Franks. Three generations
of them were really great men--Robert the Strong, Odo, and Hugh the White; and when the descendants
of Charles the Great had died out, a Duke of the Franks, Hugh Capet, was in 987 crowned King
of the Franks. All the after kings of France down to Louis Philippe were descendants of Hugh
Capet. By this change, however, he gained little in real power; for, though he claimed to rule
over the whole country of the Neustrian Franks, his authority was little heeded, save in the
domain which he had possessed as Count of Paris, including the cities of Paris, Orleans, Amiens,
and Rheims (the coronation place). He was guardian, too, of the great Abbeys of St. Denys and
St. Martin of Tours. The Duke of Normandy and the Count of Anjou to the west, the Count of
Flanders to the north, the Count of Champagne to the east, and the Duke of Aquitaine to the
south, paid him homage, but were the only actual rulers in their own domains.

3. The Kingdom of Hugh Capet.--The language of Hugh's kingdom was clipped Latin; the peasantry
and townsmen were mostly Gaulish; the nobles were almost entirely Frank. There was an understanding
that the king could only act by their consent, and must be chosen by them; but matters went
more by old custom and the right of the strongest than by any law. A Salic law, so called from
the place whence the Franks had come, was supposed to exist; but this had never been used by
their subjects, whose law remained that of the old Roman Empire. Both of these systems of law,
however, fell into disuse, and were replaced by rude bodies of "customs," which gradually grew
up. The habits of the time were exceedingly rude and ferocious. The Franks had been the fiercest
and most untamable of all the Teutonic nations, and only submitted themselves to the influence
of Christianity and civilization from the respect which the Roman Empire inspired. Charles
the Great had tried to bring in Roman cultivation, but we find him reproaching the young Franks
in his schools with letting themselves be surpassed by the Gauls, whom they despised; and in
the disorders that followed his death, barbarism increased again. The convents alone kept up
any remnants of culture; but as the fury of the Northmen was chiefly directed to them, numbers
had been destroyed, and there was more ignorance and wretchedness than at any other time. In
the duchy of Aquitaine, much more of the old Roman civilization survived, both among the cities
and the nobility; and the Normans, newly settled in the north, had brought with them the vigour
of their race. They had taken up such dead or dying culture as they found in France, and were
carrying it further, so as in some degree to awaken their neighbours. Kings and their great
vassals could generally read and write, and understand the Latin in which all records were
made, but few except the clergy studied at all. There were schools in convents, and already
at Paris a university was growing up for the study of theology, grammar, law, philosophy, and
music, the sciences which were held to form a course of education. The doctors of these sciences
lectured; the scholars of low degree lived, begged, and struggled as best they could; and gentlemen
were lodged with clergy, who served as a sort of private tutors.

