A Ribband of Blue AND OTHER BIBLE STUDIES

By J. HUDSON TAYLOR. (A companion volume to "Union and Communion," and to "Separation and Service.")

London CHINA INLAND MISSION, Newington Green, N. Morgan & Scott, 12, Paternoster Buildings, E.C.

A Ribband Of Blue.

We would draw the attention of beloved friends to the instructive passage with which the fifteenth
chapter of Numbers closes; and may GOD, through our meditation on His precious Word, make it
yet more precious and practical to each one of us, for CHRIST our REDEEMER'S sake!

The whole chapter is full of important teaching. It commences with instruction concerning the
burnt-offering, the sacrifice in performing a vow, and the free-will offering. It was not to
be supposed that any one might present his sacrifice to GOD according to his own thought and
plan. If it were to be acceptable--a sweet savour unto the LORD--it must be an offering in
every respect such as GOD had appointed. We cannot become acceptable to GOD in ways of our
own devising; from beginning to end it must be, "Not my will, but Thine, be done."

Then, from the seventeenth to the twenty-first verse, the LORD claims a first-fruits. The people
of GOD were not to eat their fill, consume all that they cared to consume, and then give to
GOD somewhat of the remainder; but before they touched the bread of the land, a heave-offering
was to be offered to the LORD; and when the requirement of GOD had been fully met, then, and
not till then, were they at liberty to satisfy their own hunger and supply their own wants.
How often we see the reverse of this in daily life! Not only are necessaries first supplied
from the income, but every fancied luxury is procured without stint, before the question of
the consecration of substance to GOD is really entertained.

Next follow the directions concerning errors from heedlessness and ignorance. The people were
not to imagine that sin was not sinful if it were unconsciously committed. Man's knowledge
and consciousness do not make wrong right or right wrong. The will of GOD was revealed and
ought to have been known: not to know that will was in itself sinful; and not to do that will,
whether consciously or unconsciously, was sin--sin that could only be put away by atoning sacrifice.

GOD dealt in much mercy and grace with those who committed sins of ignorance; though, when
the sin became known and recognised, confession and sacrifice were immediately needful. But,
thank GOD! the sacrifice was ordained, and the sin could be put away.

It was not so with the presumptuous sin. No sacrifice was appointed for a man, whether born
in the land or a stranger, who reproached the LORD by presumptuous sin. Of that man it was
said, "that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him."

This distinction is very important to make. We are not to think that our holiest service is
free from sin, or can be accepted save through JESUS CHRIST our LORD. We are not to suppose
that sins of omission, any more than sins of commission, are looked lightly upon by GOD: sins
of forgetfulness and heedlessness or ignorance are more than frailties--are real sins, needing
atoning sacrifice. GOD deals very gently and graciously with us in these matters; when transgression
or iniquity is brought home to the conscience, "if we confess our sins, He is faithful and
just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." Even when walking
in the light, "as He is in the light," we are not beyond the need of atonement. Though our
fellowship with GOD be unbroken by any conscious transgression, it continues unbroken only
because "the blood of JESUS CHRIST HIS SON is cleansing us from all sin."

The man, however, who would presume on GOD's forgiveness, and despise GOD's holiness and His
claim upon His people, by doing deliberately the thing that he knows to be contrary to GOD's
will, that man will find spiritual dearth and spiritual death inevitably follow. His communion
with GOD is brought to an end, and it is hard to say how far Satan may not be permitted to
carry such a backslider in heart and life. It is awfully possible not merely to "grieve" and
to "resist," but even to "quench" the SPIRIT of GOD.

We have a solemn example of presumptuous sin in the case of the man found gathering sticks
on the Sabbath day. He was not--he could not be ignorant of GOD'S ordinance concerning the
Sabbath. The gathering of sticks was not to meet a necessity; his case was not parallel with
that of the poor man who perhaps had received his wages late on Saturday night, and has had
no opportunity of purchasing food in time to prepare it for the day of rest. To the Israelite,
the double supply of manna was given on the morning of the day before the Sabbath; and as the
uncooked manna would not keep, it was necessary that early in that day it should be prepared
for food. He had, therefore, no need of sticks to cook his Sabbath's dinner. And the country
was so hot that no man would kindle a fire from choice or preference. His object in gathering
sticks was simply to show, openly and publicly, that he despised GOD, and refused to obey His
holy ordinance: rightly, therefore, was that man put to death.

But occasion was taken in connection with this judgment to introduce the wearing of the

"RIBBAND OF BLUE."

GOD would have all His people wear a badge. Throughout their generations they were to make
them fringes in the borders of their garments, and to put upon the fringe of the borders a
ribband of blue, that they might look upon it and remember all the commandments of the LORD,
and do them, and might be a holy people, holy unto their GOD, who brought them out of the land
of Egypt, to be their GOD.

Blue is the colour of heaven. The beautiful waters of the sea reflect it, and are as blue as
the cloudless sky. When the clouds come between, then, and then only, is the deep blue lost.
But it is the will of GOD that there should never be a cloud between His people and Himself;
and that, as the Israelite of old, wherever he went, carried the ribband of blue, so His people
to-day should manifest a heavenly spirit and temper wherever they go; and should, like Moses,
in their very countenances bear witness to the glory and beauty of the GOD whom they love and
serve.

How interesting it must have been to see that ribband of blue carried by the farmer into the
field, by the merchant to his place of business, by the maid-servant into the innermost parts
of the dwelling, when performing her daily duties. Is it less important that the Christian
of today, called to be a witness for CHRIST, should be manifestly characterised by His spirit?
And should not this Spirit of GOD-likeness be carried into the smallest details of life, and
not be merely reserved for special occasions? If we understand aright the meaning of our SAVIOUR'S
direction "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your FATHER which is in heaven is perfect," it
teaches this great truth.

We are to be the salt of the earth and the light of the world, not to break one of the least
of the commandments, not to give way to anger, not to tolerate the thought of impurity, to
give no rash promises, or in conversation to say more than yea or nay. The spirit of retaliation
is not to be indulged in; a yieldingness of spirit is to characterise the child of the kingdom;
those who hate and despitefully use us are to be pitied, and loved, and prayed for. Then comes
the direction, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your FATHER which is in heaven is perfect."
In the little frictions of daily life, as well as in the more serious trials and persecutions
to which the Christian is exposed, he is to be manifestly an imitator of his heavenly FATHER.

Now, GOD'S perfection is an absolute perfection; while ours, at best, is only relative. A needle
may be a perfect needle, in every respect adapted for the work for which it was made. It is
not, however, a microscopic object; under magnifying power it becomes a rough, honeycombed
poker, with a ragged hole in the place of the eye. But it was not made to be a microscopic
object; and, being adapted to the purpose for which it was made, it may properly be considered
a perfect needle. So we are not called to be perfect angels, or in any respect Divine, but
we are called to be perfect Christians, performing the privileged duties that as such devolve
upon us.

Our FATHER makes according to His perfection the least little thing that He makes. The tiniest
fly, the smallest animalcule, the dust of a butterfly's wing, however highly you may magnify
them, are seen to be absolutely perfect. Should not the little things of our daily life be
as relatively perfect in the case of each Christian as the lesser creations of GOD are absolutely
perfect? Ought we not to glorify GOD in the formation of each letter that we write, and as
Christians to write a more legible hand than unconverted people can be expected to do? Ought
we not to be more thorough in our service, not simply doing well that which will be seen and
noticed, but as our FATHER makes many a flower to bloom unseen in the lonely desert, so to
do all that we can do, as under His eye, though no other eye ever take note of it?

It is our privilege to take our rest and recreation for the purpose of pleasing Him; to lay
aside our garments at night neatly (for He is in the room, and watches over us while we sleep),
to wash, to dress, to smooth the hair, with His eye in view; and, in short, in all that we
are and in all that we do to use the full measure of ability which GOD has given us to the
glory of His holy Name? Were we always so to live, how beautiful Christian life would become!
how much more worthy a witness we should bear to the world of Him whose witnesses we are! May
the life we are living be characterised by the growth in grace which will glorify GOD; and
may tell-tale faces, and glad hearts, and loving service be to each one of us as "a ribband
of blue," reflecting the very hue of heaven, and reminding ourselves and one another of our
privileges to "remember all the commandments of the LORD, and do them."

Blessed Prosperity Meditations On The First Psalm.

INTRODUCTORY.

There is a prosperity which is not blessed: it comes not from above but from beneath, and it
leads away from, not towards heaven. Many besides the Psalmist have been envious at the foolish
when seeing the prosperity of the wicked, and have been tempted to ask, "Is there knowledge
in the MOST HIGH?" While Satan remains the GOD of this world, and has it is his power to prosper
his votaries, this source of perplexity will always continue to those who do not enter into
the sanctuary and consider the latter end of the worldling.

Nor is it the godless only who are tempted by the offer of a prosperity which comes from beneath.
Our SAVIOUR Himself was tempted by the arch-enemy in this way. CHRIST was told that all that
He desired to accomplish for the kingdoms of this world might be effected by an easier path
than the cross--a little compromise with him who held the power and was able to bestow the
kingdoms, and all should be His own. The lying wiles of the seducer were instantly rejected
by our LORD; not so ineffective are such wiles to many of His people; a little policy rather
than the course for which conscience pleads; a little want of integrity in business dealings;
a little compromise with the ways of the world, followed by a prosperity which brings no blessing,
these prove often that the enemy's arts are still the same.

