 This did not proceed from the prevalence of a certain disease among
the painters, known at the present time as an "enlarged head," but from the fact that no artist
accustomed to free-hand drawing and at liberty to wander all over his canvas at will would
bring himself down to working through a magnifying-glass, a necessity, often, in transferring
a drawing to wood.

With this discovery, however, of making available even the roughest drawing, the simplest blot
in color or a scratch in charcoal, and photographing its exact textures upon a wooden block,
the camera reducing it in size and thus perfecting it, the artist immediately took the place
of the draftsman, and at the same time introduced into the work an artistic quality, a dash,
a vim and spirit entirely unknown before.

Three things were needed to utilize this marvellously useful discovery: first, a painter of
rank; second, an engraver who could express the textures and technics of the several artists--that
is, reproduce the exact values of an original in wash, an original in charcoal, or an original
in oil; and third, a magazine with sufficient capital, taste, and intelligence to reproduce
these results upon a printed page. We had the painters, and the engravers developed rapidly.
The third requirement, of taste and intelligence, was found in Mr. A. W. Drake, then art director
of Scribner's Monthly, and, after its merging into the Century, the distinguished art director
of the Century Magazine.

When the Tile Club was formed in New York it consisted of a group of men (I was its scullion
for seven years, its entire life, and, being thus an honored servant, was familiar with its
many affairs) who represented at the time the leading spirits of the different schools: William
M. Chase, Arthur Quartley, Swain Gifford, A. B. Frost, George Maynard, Frank D. Millet, Alden
Weir, Edwin A. Abbey, Charles S. Reinhart, Elihu Vedder, William Gedney Bunce, Stanford White,
Augustus Saint-Gaudens, and one or two others. The club was limited to eighteen members, there
being twelve painters and six musicians. If I am not very much mistaken, not a single painter
of this group had ever drawn upon a wooden block, and yet each one of them, as the records
of our periodicals have shown, was admirably qualified for illustrative work. At the time,
the illustrations in Harper's and Scribner's, compared with the illustrations of to-day, reminded
one of the early primers of the New England schools, with their improbable trees and impossible
animals.

I remember distinctly the first meeting of the Tile Club, in which the subject of drawing for
Scribner's Monthly was first mooted, and I do not believe I overestimate the importance that
the position of the club, taken at that time, has had and still has--not as a club, for it
was dissolved some years back--in the influence its personal art has wielded upon the printed
pages of the day.

The first magazine article was the account of a trip that we made down on Long Island, illustrated
by the club, entitled "The Tile Club Abroad," each man choosing his own medium--oil, charcoal,
water-color, etc.; the results of which were published in the then Scribner's Magazine, and
engraved by a group of men who afterward placed the art of wood-engraving in America side by
side with the best efforts ever obtained by the English and German periodicals, and one of
whom, Yuengling, took the gold medal of excellence both in Paris and Munich.

With this difference in textures, the difference between a drawing in charcoal and one made
in oil, it became necessary to invent new modes of expression with the burin. A simple line
which might express the round of the cheek or the fulness of the arm, and which would answer
for the uniform drapery of the old school, would not serve to explain the subtle quality of
one of Quartley's moonrises or the vigor and dash of one of Chase's outdoor figures sketched
in oil.

So it came about that in searching to express these new qualities, never before seen upon a
block, the technic of the new school was developed.

The next important result was the creating not only of a new school of wood-engraving, but
of an entirely distinct department for art workers, the school of the illustrator; and so we
have Abbey, Reinhart, Quartley, and, later, Church, Smedley, Dana Gibson, and dozens of others
whose names will readily come to your minds and of whose careers I have already spoken.

But the burin was too slow, even in the hands of the skilful engraver, for the necessities
of the hour. It was also too expensive; a drawing which a magazine would pay the artist $50
for would often cost $200 to engrave in the hands of a master like Yuengling or Cole. Again
photography was called into use. The "straight process," so called, of the phototype printer,
reproducing a pen-and-ink line drawing on a zinc plate which could be immediately run through
a Hoe process, was perfected. You all remember, doubtless, an illustrated daily published in
New York, called The Daily Graphic, illustrated by this process. This process, however, was
only possible where pen-and-ink drawing or a very coarse lead-pencil drawing was used in making
the original, because it was necessary that spaces of white should exist between each separate
line or mass of black. This process, however, utterly failed in all India-ink drawings. Where
these drawings covered the white of the paper, if ever so delicately, the result was a dense
black upon the plate.

Then came a race between all the inventors interested in such discoveries, both here and abroad--a
race to perfect a process which would produce from such wash drawings an exact reproduction
upon the printed page, giving all the gradations of the original and doing away not only with
the draftsman but with the wood-engraver. To Professor Vogel, of Berlin, I believe--although
an American, Ives, claims it, and some say justly--is due the credit of perfecting what is
known as the half-tone, or screen process: many others claim that Herr Meisenbach first perfected
this most important discovery.

As the wash drawing had no lines, and as it is absolutely necessary that photo-printing should
have lines--that is, clean spaces of black between white--these lines were supplied by laying
a sheet of plate glass over the drawing upon which the lines were cut by a diamond and through
which the original could be clearly seen. Of course, the light falling upon the edges of these
several diamond cuttings made little points of brilliant white between which the several blacks
and whites could be seen. This, without going very much further into the mechanical details,
is the basis of the half-tone process.

While this had its value, it had also its demerits, one of which was the total extermination
of the American wood-engraver, except for a few men like Timothy Cole, whose genius and skill
made it possible for them, by the excellence of their work, to survive the great difference
between twenty cents a square inch for transferring on zinc and twenty dollars a square inch
for engraving on wood.

There are, however, results in the half-tone process which I hold are infinitely superior to
the work of any wood-engraver of the old school. While it is true that there is no really positive
rich dark for any part of the composition--for, of course, the light specks are everywhere,
thus lightening and graying the dark--and while we lose by such defects the richness of wood-engraving,
we also get the exact touch of the artist in no more and no less a degree, particularly no
less. How often have I seen an exquisite drawing of Abbey's or Du Maurier's almost ruined by
the slipping of the burin the one-thousandth part of an inch! How infinitely superior are the
originals of John Leech's immortal caricatures in Punch to the reproductions, all because the
shadow line under an eye, or that little dot which denotes the difference between amusement
and curiosity in the expression of a face, has been cut away the thousandth part of a hair-line!
The processes of the half-tone, however, are ever accurate and the reproduction given you is
exact--with the foregoing restrictions.

Then again, in landscape effects and in some portraits, the uniformity of tone, the certainty
of every touch being reproduced, the exact balancing from dark to light, all result in better
work than can be done by the ordinary engraver.

And yet, with all the half-tone's advantages, I must admit that Yuengling's head of the "Professor"
and many of his wood-cuts in an illustrated edition of "Sir Launfal," published some years
ago, and much of the work of such masters as Cole, Wolff, Yuengling, and others, stand as monuments
for all time to the skill of hands that no process will ever excel, for they put into it that
something which the bath of vitriol will never furnish, a bite of the acid of their own genius.

Since these earlier days a new departure has been made, until now reproductive processes have
been brought to such perfection that there is hardly any texture or color scheme that can not
be matched. Note, if you will, Howard Pyle in color--rich in yellows and reds, with black and
white spaces as an enrichment. Note also A. I. Keller's transparent work in charcoal gray.
Note particularly the reproductions in the magazines of F. Walter Taylor's drawings in charcoal,
in which the very texture of the coal is preserved. And, if you will permit me, note the half
tones of my own charcoal drawings now on exhibition in the adjoining gallery. So perfect is
the reproduction that one is careful not to smudge his fingers in turning the leaves of the
publication in which they are printed.

This being the case (and the printers must be thanked as well for their share in the results),
I earnestly hope that some of my brother illustrators--the more the merrier--will seriously
consider the value of charcoal as a medium for illustrative work. There is no subject, I assure
you, that the sun shines on or its light filters into, or any phase of nature, be it rain or
storm, fog, snow, or mist, including marines, figures, sunrises and sunsets, blazing heat and
cool, transparent shadows, that cannot be visualized by it.

I hold, too, that by its use qualities can be obtained impossible to be found in either etchings,
lithographic crayon, wash, or pen and ink--especially the velvet of its black.

Charcoal is the unhampered, the free, the personal individual medium. No water, no oil, no
palette, no squeezing of tubes or wiping of tints; no scraping, scumbling, or other dilatory
and exasperating necessities. Just a piece of coal, the size of a cigarette, held flat between
the thumb and the forefinger, a sheet of paper, and then "let go." Yes, one thing more--care
must be taken to have this forefinger fastened to a sure, knowing, and fearless hand, worked
by an arm which plays easily and loosely in a ball-socket set firmly near your backbone. To
carry out the metaphor, the steam of your enthusiasm, kept in working order by the safety-valve
of your experience, and regulated by the ball-governor of your art knowledge--such as composition,
drawing, mass, light and dark--is then turned on.

Now you can "let go," and in the fullest sense, or you will never arrive. My own experience
has taught me that if an outdoor charcoal sketch, covering and containing all a man can see--and
he should neither record nor explain anything more--is not completely finished in two hours
it cannot be finished by the same man in two days or two years.

For a drawing in charcoal is really a record of a man's temperament. It represents pre-eminently
the personality of the individual--his buoyancy, his perfect health, the quickness of his gestures.
All these are shown in the way he strikes his canvas--compelling it to talk back to him. So
also does it record the man's timidity, his want of confidence in himself, his fear of spoiling
what he has already done, forgetting that a nickel will buy him another sheet of paper.

Courage, too, is a component part--not to be afraid to strike hard and fast, belaboring the
canvas as a pugilist belabors an opponent, beating nature into shape.

As for the potterer and the niggler, the men and women whose stroke goes no farther back than
their knuckles, I may frankly say that charcoal is not for them. The blow is a sledge blow
going from the spinal column, not the pitapat of a jeweller's hammer elaborating the repoussé
around a goblet.

Remember, too, that the fight is all over in two hours--three at the outside--the battle really
won or lost in the first ten minutes, if you only knew it: when you get in your first strokes,
really defining your composition and planting your big high light and your big dark. It is
all right after that. You can taper off on the little lights and darks, saving your wind, so
to speak, sparring for your next supplementary light and dark.

Remember, too, that when the fight is over you must not spoil what you have done by repetition
or finish. Let it alone. You may not have covered everything you wanted to express, but if
you have smashed in the salient features, the details will look out at you when you least expect
it. There are a thousand cross lights and untold mysteries in Rembrandt's shadows which his
friends failed to see when his canvas left his studio. It is the unexpressed which is often
most interesting. Meissonier tells his story to the end. So do Vibert, Rico, and the whole
realistic school. Corot gives you a mass of foliage, no single leaf expressed, but beneath
it lurk great, cavernous shadows in which nymphs and satyrs play hide-and-seek.

Remember, also, that just as the blunt end of a bit of charcoal is many, many times larger
than the point of an etching-needle, so are its resources for fine lines and minute dots and
scratches just that much reduced. It is the flat of the piece of coal that is valuable, not
its point.

As to what can be done with this piece of coal, I can but repeat, everything. That there are
some subjects better than others, I will admit. For me, London, its streets and buildings,
come first, especially if it be raining; and there is no question that it does rain once in
a while in London, making the wet streets and sidewalks glisten under its silver-gray sky,
little rivulets of molten silver escaping everywhere. When with these you get a background--and
I always do--of flat masses of quaint buildings, all detail lost in the haze and mist of smoke,
your delight rises to enthusiasm. Nowhere else in the world are the "values" so marvellously
preserved. You start your foreground with, say, a figure, or an umbrella, or a cab, expressed
in a stroke of jet-black, and the perspective instantly fades into grays of steeple, dome,
or roof, so delicate and vapory that there is hardly a shade of difference between earth and
sky. Or you stroll into some old church or cathedral, as I did last summer when I found myself
in that most wonderful of all English churches--and I say it deliberately--St. Bartholomew's
the Great, over in Smithfield.

Other churches have I studied in my wanderings; many and various cathedrals, basilicas, and
mosques have delighted me. I know the color and the value of tapestry and rich hangings; of
mosaics, porphyry, and verd-antiques; of fluted alabaster and the delicate tracery of the arabesque;
but the velvety quality of London soot when applied to the rough surfaces of rudely chiselled
stones, and the soft loveliness gained by grime and smoke, came to me as a revelation.

This rich black which, like a tropical fungus, grows and spreads through St. Bartholomew's
interior, hiding under its soft, caressing touch the rough angles and insistent edges of the
Norman, is what the bloom is to the grape, what the dark purpling is to the plum, mellowing
from sight the brilliancy of the under skin. And there are wide coverings of it, too, in this
wonderful church, as if some master decorator had wielded a great coal and at one sweep of
his hand had rubbed its glorious black into every crevice, crack, and cranny of wall, column,
and arch.

Certain it is that no other medium than the one used could give any idea of its charm. Neither
oil, water-color, nor pastel will transmit it--no, nor the dry-point or bitten plate. The soot
of centuries, the fogs of countless Novembers, the smoke of a thousand firesides were the pigments
which the Master Painter set upon his palette in the task of giving us one exquisitely beautiful
interior wholly in black-and-white.

So it was in the Temple when I was searching for Mr. Thackeray's haunts.

What of alterations, scrapings, patchings up, and fillings in have taken place in these various
courts and their surroundings, I did not trouble myself to find out. Nothing looks new in London
after the fogs and soot of one winter have wreaked their vengeance upon it. Whether the façade
is of brick, stone, or stucco depends entirely on the thickness of the soot, packed in or scoured
clean by winds and rains, or whether the surface is ebony or marble, as may be seen in many
of the statues on Burlington House, where a head, arm, or part of a pedestal chair has been
kept white by constant douches.

As for me, I was glad that these old haunts of Mr. Thackeray and his characters are even blacker
to-day than they might have been in his time. For the soot and grime become them, and London
as well, for that matter. A great impressionist, this smoke-smudger and wiper-out of detail,
this believer in masses and simple surfaces, this destroyer of gingerbread ornaments, petty
mouldings, and cheap flutings!

       *       *       *       *       *

And now for a few practical data as to my own way of handling the coal, which may be of value
as coming from one who has profited these many years by its infinite possibilities.

The paper is the same I use in my water-colors, a delicate, gray, double-thick charcoal paper,
laid in parallel ribs, if I may so express it, and having sufficient body and tooth to catch
and hold the faintest touch or the strongest stroke of the coal. The gray of this paper serves
as the middle tone of the drawing, the different gradations of black in the coal giving the
darks and the careful use of white chalks the high lights.

These gradations are obtained by the use of a few simple processes, by which various textures
can be given, starting, for instance, from or near the foreground, where the grit of the charcoal
is used to bring the nearer details into clear relief, the several larger gradations and textures
giving aerial perspectives being produced by a broad sweep of the hand, forcing the grit of
the coal into the crevices of the paper, the result being what I may term the first plane or
nearest atmospheric value; the house a square away, if you please--provided the subject is
a street--being the second plane.

Beyond this, farther down the street, is found, it may be, another house or other object. Now
try your thumb, rubbing your hand-smoothed charcoal into a finer and closer mesh: and for the
still more atmospheric distances down this same street, use next a rag, then a buckskin stomp,
and last of all a stiff paper stomp, each in turn producing a more atmospheric gray as the
distances fade--the last, the paper stomp, being as soft as a wash of India ink. (See diagram.)

All these you may say are tricks. They are--my own tricks, or rather use of the means which
lay at my hand, which long experience has taught me to employ, and which any one of you will
no doubt better in your own handling of the coal.

These planes being secured, any light higher than the prevailing rubbed-in tone can be wiped
out clean to the grain of the paper by a piece of ductile rubber. Any darker dark, of course,
can be obtained by retouching with the coal.

The chalk now comes into play for skies, broad sunlight effects, or crisp, sparkling lights.
The whole work is then "fixed," as I have already explained, by the use of gum shellac and
a common perfume atomizer.

And with this condensed statement I must bring this my last talk to a close, remembering as
I do that I have been addressing a body of students who are already familiar with one or more
mediums, and who, with these few spoken memoranda and a finished drawing before them, will
solve at a glance mysteries baffling to the layman.

       *       *       *       *       *

BY F. HOPKINSON SMITH

FELIX O'DAY.

THE ARM-CHAIR AT THE INN.

KENNEDY SQUARE.

THE TIDES OF BARNEGAT.

THE ROMANCE OF AN OLD-FASHIONED GENTLEMAN.

COLONEL CARTER'S CHRISTMAS.

FORTY MINUTES LATE.

THE WOOD FIRE IN No. 3.

THE VEILED LADY.

THE UNDER DOG.

IN DICKENS'S LONDON.

ENOCH CRANE. A novel planned and begun by F. Hopkinson Smith and completed by F. Berkeley Smith.

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS