Joan received the immense news gratefully but without losing her head, but with us others it
was otherwise; we could not eat or sleep or do any rational thing for the excitement and the
glory of it. During two days our pair of noble knights were in distress and trepidation on
Joan's account, for the audience was to be at night, and they were afraid that Joan would be
so paralyzed by the glare of light from the long files of torches, the solemn pomps and ceremonies,
the great concourse of renowned personages, the brilliant costumes, and the other splendors
of the Court, that she, a simple country-maid, and all unused to such things, would be overcome
by these terrors and make a piteous failure.

No doubt I could have comforted them, but I was not free to speak. Would Joan be disturbed
by this cheap spectacle, this tinsel show, with its small King and his butterfly dukelets?—she
who had spoken face to face with the princes of heaven, the familiars of God, and seen their
retinue of angels stretching back into the remoteness of the sky, myriads upon myriads, like
a measureless fan of light, a glory like the glory of the sun streaming from each of those
innumerable heads, the massed radiance filling the deeps of space with a blinding splendor?
I thought not.

Queen Yolande wanted Joan to make the best possible impression upon the King and the Court,
so she was strenuous to have her clothed in the richest stuffs, wrought upon the princeliest
pattern, and set off with jewels; but in that she had to be disappointed, of course, Joan not
being persuadable to it, but begging to be simply and sincerely dressed, as became a servant
of God, and one sent upon a mission of a serious sort and grave political import. So then the
gracious Queen imagined and contrived that simple and witching costume which I have described
to you so many times, and which I cannot think of even now in my dull age without being moved
just as rhythmical and exquisite music moves one; for that was music, that dress—that is what
it was—music that one saw with the eyes and felt in the heart. Yes, she was a poem, she was
a dream, she was a spirit when she was clothed in that.

She kept that raiment always, and wore it several times upon occasions of state, and it is
preserved to this day in the Treasury of Orleans, with two of her swords, and her banner, and
other things now sacred because they had belonged to her.

At the appointed time the Count of Vendome, a great lord of the court, came richly clothed,
with his train of servants and assistants, to conduct Joan to the King, and the two knights
and I went with her, being entitled to this privilege by reason of our official positions near
her person.

When we entered the great audience-hall, there it all was just as I have already painted it.
Here were ranks of guards in shining armor and with polished halberds; two sides of the hall
were like flower-gardens for variety of color and the magnificence of the costumes; light streamed
upon these masses of color from two hundred and fifty flambeaux. There was a wide free space
down the middle of the hall, and at the end of it was a throne royally canopied, and upon it
sat a crowned and sceptered figure nobly clothed and blazing with jewels.

It is true that Joan had been hindered and put off a good while, but now that she was admitted
to an audience at last, she was received with honors granted to only the greatest personages.
At the entrance door stood four heralds in a row, in splendid tabards, with long slender silver
trumpets at their mouths, with square silken banners depending from them embroidered with the
arms of France. As Joan and the Count passed by, these trumpets gave forth in unison one long
rich note, and as we moved down the hall under the pictured and gilded vaulting, this was repeated
at every fifty feet of our progress—six times in all. It made our good knights proud and happy,
and they held themselves erect, and stiffened their stride, and looked fine and soldierly.
They were not expecting this beautiful and honorable tribute to our little country-maid.

Joan walked two yards behind the Count, we three walked two yards behind Joan. Our solemn march
ended when we were as yet some eight or ten steps from the throne. The Count made a deep obeisance,
pronounced Joan's name, then bowed again and moved to his place among a group of officials
near the throne. I was devouring the crowned personage with all my eyes, and my heart almost
stood still with awe.

The eyes of all others were fixed upon Joan in a gaze of wonder which was half worship, and
which seemed to say, "How sweet—how lovely—how divine!" All lips were parted and motionless,
which was a sure sign that those people, who seldom forget themselves, had forgotten themselves
now, and were not conscious of anything but the one object they were gazing upon. They had
the look of people who are under the enchantment of a vision.

Then they presently began to come to life again, rousing themselves out of the spell and shaking
it off as one drives away little by little a clinging drowsiness or intoxication. Now they
fixed their attention upon Joan with a strong new interest of another sort; they were full
of curiosity to see what she would do—they having a secret and particular reason for this curiosity.
So they watched. This is what they saw:

She made no obeisance, nor even any slight inclination of her head, but stood looking toward
the throne in silence. That was all there was to see at present.

I glanced up at De Metz, and was shocked at the paleness of his face. I whispered and said:

"What is it, man, what is it?"

His answering whisper was so weak I could hardly catch it:

"They have taken advantage of the hint in her letter to play a trick upon her! She will err,
and they will laugh at her. That is not the King that sits there."

Then I glanced at Joan. She was still gazing steadfastly toward the throne, and I had the curious
fancy that even her shoulders and the back of her head expressed bewilderment. Now she turned
her head slowly, and her eye wandered along the lines of standing courtiers till it fell upon
a young man who was very quietly dressed; then her face lighted joyously, and she ran and threw
herself at his feet, and clasped his knees, exclaiming in that soft melodious voice which was
her birthright and was now charged with deep and tender feeling:

"God of his grace give you long life, O dear and gentle Dauphin!"

In his astonishment and exultation De Metz cried out:

"By the shadow of God, it is an amazing thing!" Then he mashed all the bones of my hand in
his grateful grip, and added, with a proud shake of his mane, "Now, what have these painted
infidels to say!"

Meantime the young person in the plain clothes was saying to Joan:

"Ah, you mistake, my child, I am not the King. There he is," and he pointed to the throne.

The knight's face clouded, and he muttered in grief and indignation:

"Ah, it is a shame to use her so. But for this lie she had gone through safe. I will go and
proclaim to all the house what—"

"Stay where you are!" whispered I and the Sieur Bertrand in a breath, and made him stop in
his place.

Joan did not stir from her knees, but still lifted her happy face toward the King, and said:

"No, gracious liege, you are he, and none other."

De Metz's troubles vanished away, and he said:

"Verily, she was not guessing, she knew. Now, how could she know? It is a miracle. I am content,
and will meddle no more, for I perceive that she is equal to her occasions, having that in
her head that cannot profitably be helped by the vacancy that is in mine."

This interruption of his lost me a remark or two of the other talk; however, I caught the King's
next question:

"But tell me who you are, and what would you?"

"I am called Joan the Maid, and am sent to say that the King of Heaven wills that you be crowned
and consecrated in your good city of Rheims, and be thereafter Lieutenant of the Lord of Heaven,
who is King of France. And He willeth also that you set me at my appointed work and give me
men-at-arms." After a slight pause she added, her eye lighting at the sound of her words, "For
then will I raise the siege of Orleans and break the English power!"

The young monarch's amused face sobered a little when this martial speech fell upon that sick
air like a breath blown from embattled camps and fields of war, and this trifling smile presently
faded wholly away and disappeared. He was grave now, and thoughtful. After a little he waved
his hand lightly, and all the people fell away and left those two by themselves in a vacant
space. The knights and I moved to the opposite side of the hall and stood there. We saw Joan
rise at a sign, then she and the King talked privately together.

All that host had been consumed with curiosity to see what Joan would do. Well, they had seen,
and now they were full of astonishment to see that she had really performed that strange miracle
according to the promise in her letter; and they were fully as much astonished to find that
she was not overcome by the pomps and splendors about her, but was even more tranquil and at
her ease in holding speech with a monarch than ever they themselves had been, with all their
practice and experience.

As for our two knights, they were inflated beyond measure with pride in Joan, but nearly dumb,
as to speech, they not being able to think out any way to account for her managing to carry
herself through this imposing ordeal without ever a mistake or an awkwardness of any kind to
mar the grace and credit of her great performance.

The talk between Joan and the King was long and earnest, and held in low voices. We could not
hear, but we had our eyes and could note effects; and presently we and all the house noted
one effect which was memorable and striking, and has been set down in memoirs and histories
and in testimony at the Process of Rehabilitation by some who witnessed it; for all knew it
was big with meaning, though none knew what that meaning was at that time, of course. For suddenly
we saw the King shake off his indolent attitude and straighten up like a man, and at the same
time look immeasurably astonished. It was as if Joan had told him something almost too wonderful
for belief, and yet of a most uplifting and welcome nature.

It was long before we found out the secret of this conversation, but we know it now, and all
the world knows it. That part of the talk was like this—as one may read in all histories. The
perplexed King asked Joan for a sign. He wanted to believe in her and her mission, and that
her Voices were supernatural and endowed with knowledge hidden from mortals, but how could
he do this unless these Voices could prove their claim in some absolutely unassailable way?
It was then that Joan said:

"I will give you a sign, and you shall no more doubt. There is a secret trouble in your heart
which you speak of to none—a doubt which wastes away your courage, and makes you dream of throwing
all away and fleeing from your realm. Within this little while you have been praying, in your
own breast, that God of his grace would resolve that doubt, even if the doing of it must show
you that no kingly right is lodged in you."

It was that that amazed the King, for it was as she had said: his prayer was the secret of
his own breast, and none but God could know about it. So he said:

"The sign is sufficient. I know now that these Voices are of God. They have said true in this
matter; if they have said more, tell it me—I will believe."

"They have resolved that doubt, and I bring their very words, which are these: Thou art lawful
heir to the King thy father, and true heir of France. God has spoken it. Now lift up thy head,
and doubt no more, but give me men-at-arms and let me get about my work."

Telling him he was of lawful birth was what straightened him up and made a man of him for a
moment, removing his doubts upon that head and convincing him of his royal right; and if any
could have hanged his hindering and pestiferous council and set him free, he would have answered
Joan's prayer and set her in the field. But no, those creatures were only checked, not checkmated;
they could invent some more delays.

We had been made proud by the honors which had so distinguished Joan's entrance into that place—honors
restricted to personages of very high rank and worth—but that pride was as nothing compared
with the pride we had in the honor done her upon leaving it. For whereas those first honors
were shown only to the great, these last, up to this time, had been shown only to the royal.
The King himself led Joan by the hand down the great hall to the door, the glittering multitude
standing and making reverence as they passed, and the silver trumpets sounding those rich notes
of theirs. Then he dismissed her with gracious words, bending low over her hand and kissing
it. Always—from all companies, high or low—she went forth richer in honor and esteem than when
she came.

And the King did another handsome thing by Joan, for he sent us back to Courdray Castle torch-lighted
and in state, under escort of his own troop—his guard of honor—the only soldiers he had; and
finely equipped and bedizened they were, too, though they hadn't seen the color of their wages
since they were children, as a body might say. The wonders which Joan had been performing before
the King had been carried all around by this time, so the road was so packed with people who
wanted to get a sight of her that we could hardly dig through; and as for talking together,
we couldn't, all attempts at talk being drowned in the storm of shoutings and huzzas that broke
out all along as we passed, and kept abreast of us like a wave the whole way.

Chapter 7 Our Paladin in His Glory

WE WERE doomed to suffer tedious waits and delays, and we settled ourselves down to our fate
and bore it with a dreary patience, counting the slow hours and the dull days and hoping for
a turn when God should please to send it. The Paladin was the only exception—that is to say,
he was the only one who was happy and had no heavy times. This was partly owing to the satisfaction
he got out of his clothes. He bought them at second hand—a Spanish cavalier's complete suit,
wide-brimmed hat with flowing plumes, lace collar and cuffs, faded velvet doublet and trunks,
short cloak hung from the shoulder, funnel-topped buskins, long rapier, and all that—a graceful
and picturesque costume, and the Paladin's great frame was the right place to hang it for effect.
He wore it when off duty; and when he swaggered by with one hand resting on the hilt of his
rapier, and twirling his new mustache with the other, everybody stopped to look and admire;
and well they might, for he was a fine and stately contrast to the small French gentlemen of
the day squeezed into the trivial French costume of the time.

He was king bee of the little village that snuggled under the shelter of the frowning towers
and bastions of Courdray Castle, and acknowledged lord of the tap-room of the inn. When he
opened his mouth there, he got a hearing. Those simple artisans and peasants listened with
deep and wondering interest; for he was a traveler and had seen the world—all of it that lay
between Chinon and Domremy, at any rate—and that was a wide stretch more of it than they might
ever hope to see; and he had been in battle, and knew how to paint its shock and struggle,
its perils and surprises, with an art that was all his own. He was cock of that walk, hero
of that hostelry; he drew custom as honey draws flies; so he was the pet of the innkeeper,
and of his wife and daughter, and they were his obliged and willing servants.

Most people who have the narrative gift—that great and rare endowment—have with it the defect
of telling their choice things over the same way every time, and this injures them and causes
them to sound stale and wearisome after several repetitions; but it was not so with the Paladin,
whose art was of a finer sort; it was more stirring and interesting to hear him tell about
a battle the tenth time than it was the first time, because he did not tell it twice the same
way, but always made a new battle of it and a better one, with more casualties on the enemy's
side each time, and more general wreck and disaster all around, and more widows and orphans
and suffering in the neighborhood where it happened. He could not tell his battles apart himself,
except by their names; and by the time he had told one of then ten times it had grown so that
there wasn't room enough in France for it any more, but was lapping over the edges. But up
to that point the audience would not allow him to substitute a new battle, knowing that the
old ones were the best, and sure to improve as long as France could hold them; and so, instead
of saying to him as they would have said to another, "Give us something fresh, we are fatigued
with that old thing," they would say, with one voice and with a strong interest, "Tell about
the surprise at Beaulieu again—tell it three or four times!" That is a compliment which few
narrative experts have heard in their lifetime.

At first when the Paladin heard us tell about the glories of the Royal Audience he was broken-hearted
because he was not taken with us to it; next, his talk was full of what he would have done
if he had been there; and within two days he was telling what he did do when he was there.
His mill was fairly started, now, and could be trusted to take care of its affair. Within three
nights afterward all his battles were taking a rest, for already his worshipers in the tap-room
were so infatuated with the great tale of the Royal Audience that they would have nothing else,
and so besotted with it were they that they would have cried if they could not have gotten it.

Noel Rainguesson hid himself and heard it, and came and told me, and after that we went together
to listen, bribing the inn hostess to let us have her little private parlor, where we could
stand at the wickets in the door and see and hear.

The tap-room was large, yet had a snug and cozy look, with its inviting little tables and chairs
scattered irregularly over its red brick floor, and its great fire flaming and crackling in
the wide chimney. It was a comfortable place to be in on such chilly and blustering March nights
as these, and a goodly company had taken shelter there, and were sipping their wine in contentment
and gossiping one with another in a neighborly way while they waited for the historian. The
host, the hostess, and their pretty daughter were flying here and there and yonder among the
tables and doing their best to keep up with the orders. The room was about forty feet square,
and a space or aisle down the center of it had been kept vacant and reserved for the Paladin's
needs. At the end of it was a platform ten or twelve feet wide, with a big chair and a small
table on it, and three steps leading up to it.

Among the wine-sippers were many familiar faces: the cobbler, the farrier, the blacksmith,
the wheelwright, the armorer, the maltster, the weaver, the baker, the miller's man with his
dusty coat, and so on; and conscious and important, as a matter of course, was the barber-surgeon,
for he is that in all villages. As he has to pull everybody's teeth and purge and bleed all
the grown people once a month to keep their health sound, he knows everybody, and by constant
contact with all sorts of folk becomes a master of etiquette and manners and a conversationalist
of large facility. There were plenty of carriers, drovers, and their sort, and journeymen artisans.

When the Paladin presently came sauntering indolently in, he was received with a cheer, and
the barber hustled forward and greeted him with several low and most graceful and courtly bows,
also taking his hand and touching his lips to it. Then he called in a loud voice for a stoup
of wine for the Paladin, and when the host's daughter brought it up on the platform and dropped
her courtesy and departed, the barber called after her, and told her to add the wine to his
score. This won him ejaculations of approval, which pleased him very much and made his little
rat-eyes shine; and such applause is right and proper, for when we do a liberal and gallant
thing it is but natural that we should wish to see notice taken of it.

The barber called upon the people to rise and drink the Paladin's health, and they did it with
alacrity and affectionate heartiness, clashing their metal flagons together with a simultaneous
crash, and heightening the effect with a resounding cheer. It was a fine thing to see how that
young swashbuckler had made himself so popular in a strange land in so little a while, and
without other helps to his advancement than just his tongue and the talent to use it given
him by God—a talent which was but one talent in the beginning, but was now become ten through
husbandry and the increment and usufruct that do naturally follow that and reward it as by a law.

The people sat down and began to hammer on the tables with their flagons and call for "the
King's Audience!—the King's Audience!—the King's Audience!" The Paladin stood there in one
of his best attitudes, with his plumed great hat tipped over to the left, the folds of his
short cloak drooping from his shoulder, and the one hand resting upon the hilt of his rapier
and the other lifting his beaker. As the noise died down he made a stately sort of a bow, which
he had picked up somewhere, then fetched his beaker with a sweep to his lips and tilted his
head back and drained it to the bottom. The barber jumped for it and set it upon the Paladin's
table. Then the Paladin began to walk up and down his platform with a great deal of dignity
and quite at his ease; and as he walked he talked, and every little while stopped and stood
facing his house and so standing continued his talk.

We went three nights in succession. It was plain that there was a charm about the performance
that was apart from the mere interest which attaches to lying. It was presently discoverable
that this charm lay in the Paladin's sincerity. He was not lying consciously; he believed what
he was saying. To him, his initial statements were facts, and whenever he enlarged a statement,
the enlargement became a fact too. He put his heart into his extravagant narrative, just as
a poet puts his heart into a heroic fiction, and his earnestness disarmed criticism—disarmed
it as far as he himself was concerned. Nobody believed his narrative, but all believed that
he believed it.

He made his enlargements without flourish, without emphasis, and so casually that often one
failed to notice that a change had been made. He spoke of the governor of Vaucouleurs, the
first night, simply as the governor of Vaucouleurs; he spoke of him the second night as his
uncle the governor of Vaucouleurs; the third night he was his father. He did not seem to know
that he was making these extraordinary changes; they dropped from his lips in a quite natural
and effortless way. By his first night's account the governor merely attached him to the Maid's
military escort in a general and unofficial way; the second night his uncle the governor sent
him with the Maid as lieutenant of her rear guard; the third night his father the governor
put the whole command, Maid and all, in his special charge. The first night the governor spoke
of him as a youth without name or ancestry, but "destined to achieve both"; the second night
his uncle the governor spoke of him as the latest and worthiest lineal descendent of the chiefest
and noblest of the Twelve Paladins of Charlemagne; the third night he spoke of him as the lineal
descendent of the whole dozen. In three nights he promoted the Count of Vendome from a fresh
acquaintance to a schoolmate, and then brother-in-law.

At the King's Audience everything grew, in the same way. First the four silver trumpets were
twelve, then thirty-five, finally ninety-six; and by that time he had thrown in so many drums
and cymbals that he had to lengthen the hall from five hundred feet to nine hundred to accommodate
them. Under his hand the people present multiplied in the same large way.

The first two nights he contented himself with merely describing and exaggerating the chief
dramatic incident of the Audience, but the third night he added illustration to description.
He throned the barber in his own high chair to represent the sham King; then he told how the
Court watched the Maid with intense interest and suppressed merriment, expecting to see her
fooled by the deception and get herself swept permanently out of credit by the storm of scornful
laughter which would follow. He worked this scene up till he got his house in a burning fever
of excitement and anticipation, then came his climax. Turning to the barber, he said:

"But mark you what she did. She gazed steadfastly upon that sham's villain face as I now gaze
upon yours—this being her noble and simple attitude, just as I stand now—then turned she—thus—to
me, and stretching her arm out—so—and pointing with her finger, she said, in that firm, calm
tone which she was used to use in directing the conduct of a battle, 'Pluck me this false knave
from the throne!' I, striding forward as I do now, took him by the collar and lifted him out
and held him aloft—thus—as if he had been but a child." (The house rose, shouting, stamping,
and banging with their flagons, and went fairly mad over this magnificent exhibition of strength—and
there was not the shadow of a laugh anywhere, though the spectacle of the limp but proud barber
hanging there in the air like a puppy held by the scruff of its neck was a thing that had nothing
of solemnity about it.) "Then I set him down upon his feet—thus—being minded to get him by
a better hold and heave him out of the window, but she bid me forbear, so by that error he
escaped with his life.

"Then she turned her about and viewed the throng with those eyes of hers, which are the clear-shining
windows whence her immortal wisdom looketh out upon the world, resolving its falsities and
coming at the kernel of truth that is hid within them, and presently they fell upon a young
man modestly clothed, and him she proclaimed for what he truly was, saying, 'I am thy servant—thou
art the King!' Then all were astonished, and a great shout went up, the whole six thousand
joining in it, so that the walls rocked with the volume and the tumult of it."

He made a fine and picturesque thing of the march-out from the Audience, augmenting the glories
of it to the last limit of the impossibilities; then he took from his finger and held up a
brass nut from a bolt-head which the head ostler at the castle had given him that morning,
and made his conclusion—thus:

"Then the King dismissed the Maid most graciously—as indeed was her desert—and, turning to
me, said, 'Take this signet-ring, son of the Paladins, and command me with it in your day of
need; and look you,' said he, touching my temple, 'preserve this brain, France has use for
it; and look well to its casket also, for I foresee that it will be hooped with a ducal coronet
one day.' I took the ring, and knelt and kissed his hand, saying, 'Sire, where glory calls,
there will I be found; where danger and death are thickest, that is my native air; when France
and the throne need help—well, I say nothing, for I am not of the talking sort—let my deeds
speak for me, it is all I ask.'

"So ended the most fortunate and memorable episode, so big with future weal for the crown and
the nation, and unto God be the thanks! Rise! Fill your flagons! Now—to France and the King—drink!"

They emptied them to the bottom, then burst into cheers and huzzas, and kept it up as much
as two minutes, the Paladin standing at stately ease the while and smiling benignantly from
his platform.

Chapter 8 Joan Persuades Her Inquisitors

WHEN JOAN told the King what that deep secret was that was torturing his heart, his doubts
were cleared away; he believed she was sent of God, and if he had been let alone he would have
set her upon her great mission at once. But he was not let alone. Tremouille and the holy fox
of Rheims knew their man. All they needed to say was this—and they said it:

"Your Highness says her Voices have revealed to you, by her mouth, a secret known only to yourself
and God. How can you know that her Voices are not of Satan, and she his mouthpiece?—for does
not Satan know the secrets of men and use his knowledge for the destruction of their souls?
It is a dangerous business, and your Highness will do well not to proceed in it without probing
the matter to the bottom."

That was enough. It shriveled up the King's little soul like a raisin, with terrors and apprehensions,
and straightway he privately appointed a commission of bishops to visit and question Joan daily
until they should find out whether her supernatural helps hailed from heaven or from hell.

The King's relative, the Duke of Alencon, three years prisoner of war to the English, was in
these days released from captivity through promise of a great ransom; and the name and fame
of the Maid having reached him—for the same filled all mouths now, and penetrated to all parts—he
came to Chinon to see with his own eyes what manner of creature she might be. The King sent
for Joan and introduced her to the Duke. She said, in her simple fashion:

"You are welcome; the more of the blood of France that is joined to this cause, the better
for the cause and it."

Then the two talked together, and there was just the usual result: when they departed, the
Duke was her friend and advocate.

Joan attended the King's mass the next day, and afterward dined with the King and the Duke.
The King was learning to prize her company and value her conversation; and that might well
be, for, like other kings, he was used to getting nothing out of people's talk but guarded
phrases, colorless and non-committal, or carefully tinted to tally with the color of what he
said himself; and so this kind of conversation only vexes and bores, and is wearisome; but
Joan's talk was fresh and free, sincere and honest, and unmarred by timorous self-watching
and constraint. She said the very thing that was in her mind, and said it in a plain, straightforward
way. One can believe that to the King this must have been like fresh cold water from the mountains
to parched lips used to the water of the sun-baked puddles of the plain.

After dinner Joan so charmed the Duke with her horsemanship and lance practice in the meadows
by the Castle of Chinon whither the King also had come to look on, that he made her a present
of a great black war-steed.

