It was a long night to me, and perhaps the most distressful one I ever spent. I endured agonies
of remorse for sins which I knew I had committed, and for others which I was not certain about,
yet was sure that they had been set down against me in a book by an angel who was wiser than
I and did not trust such important matters to memory.  It struck me, by and by, that I had
been making a most foolish and calamitous mistake, in one respect: doubtless I had not only
made my own destruction sure by directing attention to those other boys, but had already accomplished
theirs!--Doubtless the lightning had stretched them all dead in their beds by this time! The
anguish and the fright which this thought gave me made my previous sufferings seem trifling
by comparison.

Things had become truly serious.  I resolved to turn over a new leaf instantly; I also resolved
to connect myself with the church the next day, if I survived to see its sun appear.  I resolved
to cease from sin in all its forms, and to lead a high and blameless life for ever after. I
would be punctual at church and Sunday-school; visit the sick; carry baskets of victuals to
the poor (simply to fulfil the regulation conditions, although I knew we had none among us
so poor but they would smash the basket over my head for my pains); I would instruct other
boys in right ways, and take the resulting trouncings meekly; I would subsist entirely on tracts;
I would invade the rum shop and warn the drunkard-- and finally, if I escaped the fate of those
who early become too good to live, I would go for a missionary.

The storm subsided toward daybreak, and I dozed gradually to sleep with a sense of obligation
to Lem Hackett for going to eternal suffering in that abrupt way, and thus preventing a far
more dreadful disaster--my own loss.

But when I rose refreshed, by and by, and found that those other boys were still alive, I had
a dim sense that perhaps the whole thing was a false alarm; that the entire turmoil had been
on Lem's account and nobody's else.  The world looked so bright and safe that there did not
seem to be any real occasion to turn over a new leaf. I was a little subdued, during that day,
and perhaps the next; after that, my purpose of reforming slowly dropped out of my mind, and
I had a peaceful, comfortable time again, until the next storm.

That storm came about three weeks later; and it was the most unaccountable one, to me, that
I had ever experienced; for on the afternoon of that day, 'Dutchy' was drowned. Dutchy belonged
to our Sunday-school. He was a German lad who did not know enough to come in out of the rain;
but he was exasperatingly good, and had a prodigious memory. One Sunday he made himself the
envy of all the youth and the talk of all the admiring village, by reciting three thousand
verses of Scripture without missing a word; then he went off the very next day and got drowned.

Circumstances gave to his death a peculiar impressiveness. We were all bathing in a muddy creek
which had a deep hole in it, and in this hole the coopers had sunk a pile of green hickory
hoop poles to soak, some twelve feet under water. We were diving and 'seeing who could stay
under longest.' We managed to remain down by holding on to the hoop poles. Dutchy made such
a poor success of it that he was hailed with laughter and derision every time his head appeared
above water. At last he seemed hurt with the taunts, and begged us to stand still on the bank
and be fair with him and give him an honest count--'be friendly and kind just this once, and
not miscount for the sake of having the fun of laughing at him.' Treacherous winks were exchanged,
and all said 'All right, Dutchy--go ahead, we'll play fair.'

Dutchy plunged in, but the boys, instead of beginning to count, followed the lead of one of
their number and scampered to a range of blackberry bushes close by and hid behind it. They
imagined Dutchy's humiliation, when he should rise after a superhuman effort and find the place
silent and vacant, nobody there to applaud.  They were 'so full of laugh' with the idea, that
they were continually exploding into muffled cackles. Time swept on, and presently one who
was peeping through the briers, said, with surprise--

'Why, he hasn't come up, yet!'

The laughing stopped.

'Boys, it 's a splendid dive,' said one.

'Never mind that,' said another, 'the joke on him is all the better for it.'

There was a remark or two more, and then a pause. Talking ceased, and all began to peer through
the vines. Before long, the boys' faces began to look uneasy, then anxious, then terrified.
Still there was no movement of the placid water. Hearts began to beat fast, and faces to turn
pale. We all glided out, silently, and stood on the bank, our horrified eyes wandering back
and forth from each other's countenances to the water.

'Somebody must go down and see!'

Yes, that was plain; but nobody wanted that grisly task.

'Draw straws!'

So we did--with hands which shook so, that we hardly knew what we were about.  The lot fell
to me, and I went down. The water was so muddy I could not see anything, but I felt around
among the hoop poles, and presently grasped a limp wrist which gave me no response--and if
it had I should not have known it, I let it go with such a frightened suddenness.

The boy had been caught among the hoop poles and entangled there, helplessly.  I fled to the
surface and told the awful news. Some of us knew that if the boy were dragged out at once he
might possibly be resuscitated, but we never thought of that.  We did not think of anything;
we did not know what to do, so we did nothing--except that the smaller lads cried, piteously,
and we all struggled frantically into our clothes, putting on anybody's that came handy, and
getting them wrong- side-out and upside-down, as a rule. Then we scurried away and gave the
alarm, but none of us went back to see the end of the tragedy.  We had a more important thing
to attend to: we all flew home, and lost not a moment in getting ready to lead a better life.

The night presently closed down.  Then came on that tremendous and utterly unaccountable storm.
I was perfectly dazed; I could not understand it.  It seemed to me that there must be some
mistake. The elements were turned loose, and they rattled and banged and blazed away in the
most blind and frantic manner.  All heart and hope went out of me, and the dismal thought kept
floating through my brain, 'If a boy who knows three thousand verses by heart is not satisfactory,
what chance is there for anybody else?'

Of course I never questioned for a moment that the storm was on Dutchy's account, or that he
or any other inconsequential animal was worthy of such a majestic demonstration from on high;
the lesson of it was the only thing that troubled me; for it convinced me that if Dutchy, with
all his perfections, was not a delight, it would be vain for me to turn over a new leaf, for
I must infallibly fall hopelessly short of that boy, no matter how hard I might try.  Nevertheless
I did turn it over--a highly educated fear compelled me to do that--but succeeding days of
cheerfulness and sunshine came bothering around, and within a month I had so drifted backward
that again I was as lost and comfortable as ever.

Breakfast time approached while I mused these musings and called these ancient happenings back
to mind; so I got me back into the present and went down the hill.

On my way through town to the hotel, I saw the house which was my home when I was a boy.  At
present rates, the people who now occupy it are of no more value than I am; but in my time
they would have been worth not less than five hundred dollars apiece. They are colored folk.

After breakfast, I went out alone again, intending to hunt up some of the Sunday-schools and
see how this generation of pupils might compare with their progenitors who had sat with me
in those places and had probably taken me as a model--though I do not remember as to that now.
By the public square there had been in my day a shabby little brick church called the 'Old
Ship of Zion,' which I had attended as a Sunday- school scholar; and I found the locality easily
enough, but not the old church; it was gone, and a trig and rather hilarious new edifice was
in its place. The pupils were better dressed and better looking than were those of my time;
consequently they did not resemble their ancestors; and consequently there was nothing familiar
to me in their faces. Still, I contemplated them with a deep interest and a yearning wistfulness,
and if I had been a girl I would have cried; for they were the offspring, and represented,
and occupied the places, of boys and girls some of whom I had loved to love, and some of whom
I had loved to hate, but all of whom were dear to me for the one reason or the other, so many
years gone by--and, Lord, where be they now!

I was mightily stirred, and would have been grateful to be allowed to remain unmolested and
look my fill; but a bald-summited superintendent who had been a tow-headed Sunday-school mate
of mine on that spot in the early ages, recognized me, and I talked a flutter of wild nonsense
to those children to hide the thoughts which were in me, and which could not have been spoken
without a betrayal of feeling that would have been recognized as out of character with me.

Making speeches without preparation is no gift of mine; and I was resolved to shirk any new
opportunity, but in the next and larger Sunday-school I found myself in the rear of the assemblage;
so I was very willing to go on the platform a moment for the sake of getting a good look at
the scholars. On the spur of the moment I could not recall any of the old idiotic talks which
visitors used to insult me with when I was a pupil there; and I was sorry for this, since it
would have given me time and excuse to dawdle there and take a long and satisfying look at
what I feel at liberty to say was an array of fresh young comeliness not matchable in another
Sunday-school of the same size. As I talked merely to get a chance to inspect; and as I strung
out the random rubbish solely to prolong the inspection, I judged it but decent to confess
these low motives, and I did so.

If the Model Boy was in either of these Sunday-schools, I did not see him. The Model Boy of
my time--we never had but the one--was perfect: perfect in manners, perfect in dress, perfect
in conduct, perfect in filial piety, perfect in exterior godliness; but at bottom he was a
prig; and as for the contents of his skull, they could have changed place with the contents
of a pie and nobody would have been the worse off for it but the pie.  This fellow's reproachlessness
was a standing reproach to every lad in the village. He was the admiration of all the mothers,
and the detestation of all their sons. I was told what became of him, but as it was a disappointment
to me, I will not enter into details. He succeeded in life.

Chapter 55 A Vendetta and Other Things

DURING my three days' stay in the town, I woke up every morning with the impression that I
was a boy--for in my dreams the faces were all young again, and looked as they had looked in
the old times--but I went to bed a hundred years old, every night--for meantime I had been
seeing those faces as they are now.

Of course I suffered some surprises, along at first, before I had become adjusted to the changed
state of things. I met young ladies who did not seem to have changed at all; but they turned
out to be the daughters of the young ladies I had in mind--sometimes their grand-daughters.
When you are told that a stranger of fifty is a grandmother, there is nothing surprising about
it; but if, on the contrary, she is a person whom you knew as a little girl, it seems impossible.
You say to yourself, 'How can a little girl be a grandmother.' It takes some little time to
accept and realize the fact that while you have been growing old, your friends have not been
standing still, in that matter.

I noticed that the greatest changes observable were with the women, not the men.  I saw men
whom thirty years had changed but slightly; but their wives had grown old.  These were good
women; it is very wearing to be good.

There was a saddler whom I wished to see; but he was gone. Dead, these many years, they said.
Once or twice a day, the saddler used to go tearing down the street, putting on his coat as
he went; and then everybody knew a steamboat was coming. Everybody knew, also, that John Stavely
was not expecting anybody by the boat--or any freight, either; and Stavely must have known
that everybody knew this, still it made no difference to him; he liked to seem to himself to
be expecting a hundred thousand tons of saddles by this boat, and so he went on all his life,
enjoying being faithfully on hand to receive and receipt for those saddles, in case by any
miracle they should come. A malicious Quincy paper used always to refer to this town, in derision
as 'Stavely's Landing.'  Stavely was one of my earliest admirations; I envied him his rush
of imaginary business, and the display he was able to make of it, before strangers, as he went
flying down the street struggling with his fluttering coat.

But there was a carpenter who was my chiefest hero.  He was a mighty liar, but I did not know
that; I believed everything he said.  He was a romantic, sentimental, melodramatic fraud, and
his bearing impressed me with awe. I vividly remember the first time he took me into his confidence.
He was planing a board, and every now and then he would pause and heave a deep sigh; and occasionally
mutter broken sentences-- confused and not intelligible--but out of their midst an ejaculation
sometimes escaped which made me shiver and did me good:  one was, 'O God, it is his blood!'
I sat on the tool-chest and humbly and shudderingly admired him; for I judged he was full of
crime. At last he said in a low voice--

'My little friend, can you keep a secret?'

I eagerly said I could.

'A dark and dreadful one?'

I satisfied him on that point.

'Then I will tell you some passages in my history; for oh, I MUST relieve my burdened soul,
or I shall die!'

He cautioned me once more to be 'as silent as the grave;' then he told me he was a 'red-handed
murderer.' He put down his plane, held his hands out before him, contemplated them sadly, and
said--

'Look--with these hands I have taken the lives of thirty human beings!'

The effect which this had upon me was an inspiration to him, and he turned himself loose upon
his subject with interest and energy. He left generalizing, and went into details,--began with
his first murder; described it, told what measures he had taken to avert suspicion; then passed
to his second homicide, his third, his fourth, and so on. He had always done his murders with
a bowie-knife, and he made all my hairs rise by suddenly snatching it out and showing it to me.

At the end of this first seance I went home with six of his fearful secrets among my freightage,
and found them a great help to my dreams, which had been sluggish for a while back. I sought
him again and again, on my Saturday holidays; in fact I spent the summer with him--all of it
which was valuable to me. His fascinations never diminished, for he threw something fresh and
stirring, in the way of horror, into each successive murder. He always gave names, dates, places--everything.
This by and by enabled me to note two things:  that he had killed his victims in every quarter
of the globe, and that these victims were always named Lynch. The destruction of the Lynches
went serenely on, Saturday after Saturday, until the original thirty had multiplied to sixty--and
more to be heard from yet; then my curiosity got the better of my timidity, and I asked how
it happened that these justly punished persons all bore the same name.

My hero said he had never divulged that dark secret to any living being; but felt that he could
trust me, and therefore he would lay bare before me the story of his sad and blighted life.
He had loved one 'too fair for earth,' and she had reciprocated 'with all the sweet affection
of her pure and noble nature.' But he had a rival, a 'base hireling' named Archibald Lynch,
who said the girl should be his, or he would 'dye his hands in her heart's best blood.'  The
carpenter, 'innocent and happy in love's young dream,' gave no weight to the threat, but led
his 'golden- haired darling to the altar,' and there, the two were made one; there also, just
as the minister's hands were stretched in blessing over their heads, the fell deed was done--with
a knife--and the bride fell a corpse at her husband's feet. And what did the husband do?  He
plucked forth that knife, and kneeling by the body of his lost one, swore to 'consecrate his
life to the extermination of all the human scum that bear the hated name of Lynch.'

That was it.  He had been hunting down the Lynches and slaughtering them, from that day to
this--twenty years.  He had always used that same consecrated knife; with it he had murdered
his long array of Lynches, and with it he had left upon the forehead of each victim a peculiar
mark--a cross, deeply incised.  Said he--

'The cross of the Mysterious Avenger is known in Europe, in America, in China, in Siam, in
the Tropics, in the Polar Seas, in the deserts of Asia, in all the earth.  Wherever in the
uttermost parts of the globe, a Lynch has penetrated, there has the Mysterious Cross been seen,
and those who have seen it have shuddered and said, "It is his mark, he has been here." You
have heard of the Mysterious Avenger--look upon him, for before you stands no less a person!
But beware--breathe not a word to any soul. Be silent, and wait.  Some morning this town will
flock aghast to view a gory corpse; on its brow will be seen the awful sign, and men will tremble
and whisper, "He has been here--it is the Mysterious Avenger's mark!" You will come here, but
I shall have vanished; you will see me no more.'

This ass had been reading the 'Jibbenainosay,' no doubt, and had had his poor romantic head
turned by it; but as I had not yet seen the book then, I took his inventions for truth, and
did not suspect that he was a plagiarist.

