The answer to that question is not overwhelmingly difficult. The German people sticks to its
militarist imperialism as Mazeppa stuck to his horse; because it is bound to it, and the wolves
pursue. The attentive student of the home and foreign propaganda literature of the German Government
will realize that the case made by German imperialism, the main argument by which it sticks
to power, is this, that the Allied Governments are also imperialist, that they also aim at
conquest and aggression, that for Germany the choice is world empire or downfall and utter
ruin. This is the argument that holds the German people stiffly united. For most men in most
countries it would be a convincing argument, strong enough to override considerations of right
and wrong. I find that I myself am of this way of thinking, that whether England has done right
or wrong in the past--and I have sometimes criticized my country very bitterly--I will not
endure the prospect of seeing her at the foot of some victorious foreign nation. Neither will
any German who matters. Very few people would respect a German who did. But the case for the
Allies is that this great argument by which, and by which alone, the German Imperial Government
keeps its grip upon the German people at the present time, and keeps them facing their enemies,
is untrue. The Allies declare that they do not want to destroy the German people, they do not
want to cripple the German people; they want merely to see certain gaping wounds inflicted
by Germany repaired, and beyond that reasonable requirement they want nothing but to be assured,
completely assured, absolutely assured, against any further aggressions on the part of Germany.

Is that true? Our leaders say so, and we believe them. We would not support them if we did
not. And if it is true, have the statesmen of the Allies made it as transparently and convincingly
clear to the German people as possible? That is one of the supreme questions of the present
time. We cannot too earnestly examine it. Because in the answer to it lies the reason why so
many men were killed yesterday on the eastern and western front, so many ships sunk, so much
property destroyed, so much human energy wasted for ever upon mere destruction, and why to-morrow
and the next day and the day after--through many months yet, perhaps--the same killing and
destroying must still go on.

In many respects this war has been an amazing display of human inadaptability. The military
history of the war has still to be written, the grim story of machinery misunderstood, improvements
resisted, antiquated methods persisted in; but the broad facts are already before the public
mind. After three years of war the air offensive, the only possible decisive blow, is still
merely talked of. Not once nor twice only have the Western Allies had victory within their
grasp--and failed to grip it. The British cavalry generals wasted the great invention of the
tanks as a careless child breaks a toy. At least equally remarkable is the dragging inadaptability
of European statecraft. Everywhere the failure of ministers and statesmen to rise to the urgent
definite necessities of the present time is glaringly conspicuous. They seem to be incapable
even of thinking how the war may be brought to an end. They seem incapable of that plain speaking
to the world audience which alone can bring about a peace. They keep on with the tricks and
feints of a departed age. Both on the side of the Allies and on the side of the Germans the
declarations of public policy remain childishly vague and disingenuous, childishly "diplomatic."
They chaffer like happy imbeciles while civilization bleeds to death. It was perhaps to be
expected. Few, if any, men of over five-and-forty completely readjust themselves to changed
conditions, however novel and challenging the changes may be, and nearly all the leading figures
in these affairs are elderly men trained in a tradition of diplomatic ineffectiveness, and
now overworked and overstrained to a pitch of complete inelasticity. They go on as if it were
still 1913. Could anything be more palpably shifty and unsatisfactory, more senile, more feebly
artful, than the recent utterances of the German Chancellor? And, on our own side--

Let us examine the three leading points about this peace business in which this jaded statecraft
is most apparent.

Let the reader ask himself the following questions:--

Does he know what the Allies mean to do with the problem of Central Africa? There can be permanent
peace in the world only when tropical and sub-tropical Africa constitute a field free to the
commercial enterprise of every one irrespective of nationality, when this is no longer an area
of competition between nations. This is possible only under some supreme international control.
It requires no special knowledge nor wisdom to see that. A schoolboy can see it. Any one but
a statesman absolutely flaccid with overstrain can see that. However difficult it may prove
to work out in detail, such an international control must therefore be worked out. The manifest
solution of the problem of the German colonies in Africa is neither to return them to her nor
deprive her of them, but to give her a share in the pooled general control of mid-Africa. In
that way she can be deprived of all power for political mischief in Africa without humiliation
or economic injury. In that way, too, we can head off--and in no other way can we head off--the
power for evil, the power of developing quarrels inherent in "imperialisms" other than German.

But has the reader any assurance that this sane solution of the African problem has the support
of the Allied Governments? At best he has only a vague persuasion. And consider how the matter
looks "over there." The German Government assures the German people that the Allies intend
to cut off Germany from the African supply of raw material. That would mean the practical destruction
of German economic life. It is something far more vital to the mass of Germans than any question
of Belgium or Alsace-Lorraine. It is, therefore, one of the ideas most potent in nerving the
overstrained German people to continue their fight. Why are we, and why are the German people,
not given some definite assurance in this matter? Given reparation in Europe, is Germany to
be allowed a fair share in the control and trade of a pooled and neutralized Central Africa?
Sooner or later we must come to some such arrangement. Why not state it plainly now?

A second question is equally essential to any really permanent settlement, and it is one upon
which these eloquent but unsatisfactory mouthpieces of ours turn their backs with an equal
resolution, and that is the fate of the Ottoman Empire. What in plain English are we up to
there? Whatever happens, that Humpty Dumpty cannot be put back as it was before the war. The
idea of the German imperialist, the idea of our own little band of noisy but influential imperialist
vulgarians, is evidently a game of grab, a perilous cutting up of these areas into jostling
protectorates and spheres of influence, from which either the Germans or the Allies (according
to the side you are on) are to be viciously shut out. On such a basis this war is a war to
the death. Neither Germany, France, Britain, Italy, nor Russia can live prosperously if its
trade and enterprise is shut out from this cardinally important area. There is, therefore,
no alternative, if we are to have a satisfactory permanent pacification of the world, but local
self-development in these regions under honestly conceived international control of police
and transit and trade. Let it be granted that that will be a difficult control to organize.
None the less it has to be attempted. It has to be attempted because there is no other way
of peace. But once that conception has been clearly formulated, a second great motive why Germany
should continue fighting will have gone.

The third great issue about which there is nothing but fog and uncertainty is the so-called
"War After the War," the idea of a permanent economic alliance to prevent the economic recuperation
of Germany. Upon that idea German imperialism, in its frantic effort to keep its tormented
people fighting, naturally puts the utmost stress. The threat of War after the War robs the
reasonable German of his last inducement to turn on his Government and insist upon peace. Shut
out from all trade, unable to buy food, deprived of raw material, peace would be as bad for
Germany as war. He will argue naturally enough and reasonably enough that he may as well die
fighting as starve. This is a far more vital issue to him than the Belgian issue or Poland
or Alsace-Lorraine. Our statesmen waste their breath and slight our intelligence when these
foreground questions are thrust in front of the really fundamental matters. But as the mass
of sensible people in every country concerned, in Germany just as much as in France or Great
Britain, know perfectly well, unimpeded trade is good for every one except a few rich adventurers,
and restricted trade destroys limitless wealth and welfare for mankind to make a few private
fortunes or secure an advantage for some imperialist clique. We want an end to this economic
strategy, we want an end to this plotting of Governmental cliques against the general welfare.
In such offences Germany has been the chief of sinners, but which among the belligerent nations
can throw the first stone? Here again the way to the world's peace, the only way to enduring
peace, lies through internationalism, through an international survey of commercial treaties,
through an international control of inter-State shipping and transport rates. Unless the Allied
statesmen fail to understand the implications of their own general professions they mean that.
But why do they not say it plainly? Why do they not shout it so compactly and loudly that all
Germany will hear and understand? Why do they justify imperialism to Germany? Why do they maintain
a threatening ambiguity towards Germany on all these matters?

By doing so they leave Germany no choice but a war of desperation. They underline and endorse
the claim of German imperialism that this is a war for bare existence. They unify the German
people. They prolong the war.

§ 3

Some weeks later I was able, at the invitation of the editor, to carry the controversy against
imperialism into the Daily Mail, which has hitherto counted as a strictly imperialist paper.
The article that follows was published in the Daily Mail under the heading, "Are we Sticking
to the Point? A Discussion of War Aims."

Has this War-Aims controversy really got down to essentials? Is the purpose of this world conflict
from first to last too complicated for brevity, or can we boil it down into a statement compact
enough for a newspaper article?

And if we can, why is there all this voluminous, uneasy, unquenchable disputation about War Aims?

As to the first question, I would say that the gist of the dispute between the Central Powers
and the world can be written easily without undue cramping in an ordinary handwriting upon
a postcard. It is the second question that needs answering. And the reason why the second question
has to be asked and answered is this, that several of the Allies, and particularly we British,
are not being perfectly plain and simple-minded in our answer to the first, that there is a
division among us and in our minds, and that our division is making us ambiguous in our behaviour,
that it is weakening and dividing our action and strengthening and consolidating the enemy,
and that unless we can drag this slurred-over division of aim and spirit into the light of
day and settle it now, we are likely to remain double-minded to the end of the war, to split
our strength while the war continues and to come out of the settlement at the end with nothing
nearly worth the strain and sacrifice it has cost us.

And first, let us deal with that postcard and say what is the essential aim of the war, the
aim to which all other aims are subsidiary. It is, we have heard repeated again and again by
every statesman of importance in every Allied country, to defeat and destroy military imperialism,
to make the world safe for ever against any such deliberate aggression as Germany prepared
for forty years and brought to a climax when she crossed the Belgian frontier in 1914. We want
to make anything of that kind on the part of Germany or of any other Power henceforth impossible
in this world. That is our great aim. Whatever other objects may be sought in this war no responsible
statesman dare claim them as anything but subsidiary to that; one can say, in fact, this is
our sole aim, our other aims being but parts of it. Better that millions should die now, we
declare, than that hundreds of millions still unborn should go on living, generation after
generation, under the black tyranny of this imperialist threat.

There is our common agreement. So far, at any rate, we are united. The question I would put
to the reader is this: Are we all logically, sincerely, and fully carrying out the plain implications
of this War Aim? Or are we to any extent muddling about with it in such a way as to confuse
and disorganize our Allies, weaken our internal will, and strengthen the enemy?

Now the plain meaning of this supreme declared War Aim is that we are asking Germany to alter
her ways. We are asking Germany to become a different Germany. Either Germany has to be utterly
smashed up and destroyed or else Germany has to cease to be an aggressive military imperialism.
The former alternative is dismissed by most responsible statesmen. They declare that they do
not wish to destroy the German people or the German nationality or the civilized life of Germany.
I will not enlarge here upon the tedium and difficulties such an undertaking would present.
I will dismiss it as being not only impossible, but also as an insanely wicked project. The
second alternative, therefore, remains as our War Aim. I do not see how the sloppiest reasoner
can evade that. As we do not want to kill Germany we must want to change Germany. If we do
not want to wipe Germany off the face of the earth, then we want Germany to become the prospective
and trust-worthy friend of her fellow nations. And if words have any meaning at all, that is
saying that we are fighting to bring about a Revolution in Germany. We want Germany to become
a democratically controlled State, such as is the United States to-day, with open methods and
pacific intentions, instead of remaining a clenched fist. If we can bring that about we have
achieved our War Aim; if we cannot, then this struggle has been for us only such loss and failure
as humanity has never known before.

