"Why suld I not be kind?" he said, heartily, "when I see ye nipt by the wourld's unkindness?
Why suld I not be kind? Is the rose there to blame because a weed has grown alongside? Ye could
na help it that the wild bird flitted, and I heerd how ye roon like a brave lassie to stop
her. But the evil wourld is quick to see the bad and slow to see the gude." And Malcom escorted
her like a "leddy o' high degree" to his little parlor, and there she told him and his wife
all her trouble, and Malcom seemed afflicted with a sudden cold in his head. Then Mrs. McTrump
bustled in and out in a breezy eagerness to make her comfortable.

"Ye're a stranger in our toon," she said, "and sae I was once mysel, an' I ken how ye feel."

"An' the Gude Book, which I hope ye read," added the gallant Malcom, "says hoo in entertainin'
a stranger ye may ha' an angel aroond."

"Oh, Mr. McTrump," said Edith, with peony-like face, "Hannibal is the only one who calls me
that, and he doesn't know any better."

"Why suld he know ony better?" responded Malcom quickly. "I ha' never seen an angel, na mair
than I ha' seen a goolden harp, but I'm a thinkin' a modest bonny lassie like yoursel cooms
as near to ane as anything can in this world."

"But, Mr. McTrump," said Edith, with a half-pathetic, half-comic face, "I am in such deep trouble
that I shall soon grow old and wrinkled, so I shall not be an angel long."

"Na, na, dinna say that," said Malcom earnestly. "An ye will, ye may keepit the angel a-growin'
within ye alway, though ye live as old as Methuselah. D'ye see this wee brown seed? There's
a mornin'-glory vine hidden in it, as would daze your een at the peep o' day wi' its gay blossoms.
An' ye see my ould gudewife there? Ah, she will daze the een o' the greatest o' the earth in
the bright springtime o' the Resurrection; and though I'm a little mon here, it may be I'll
see o'er the heads of soom up there."

"An ye had true humeelity ye'd be a-hopin' to get there, instead of expectin' to speir o'er
the heads o' yer betters," said his wife in a rebuking tone.

"'A-hopin' to get there'!" said Malcom with some warmth. "Why suld I hope when 'I know that
my Redeemer liveth'?"

Edith's eyes filled with wistful tears, for the quaint talk of these old people suggested a
hope and faith that she knew nothing of. But, in a low voice, she said, "Why does God let his
creatures suffer so much?"

"Bless your heart, puir child, He suffered mair than ony on us," said Malcom tenderly. "But
ye'll learn it a' soon. He who fed the famishin' would bid ye eat noo. But wait a bit till
ye see what I'll bring ye."

In a moment he was back with a dainty basket of Triomphe de Gand strawberries, and Edith uttered
an exclamation of delight as she inhaled their delicious aroma.

"They are the first ripe the season, an' noo see what the gudewife will do with them."

Soon their hulls were off, and, swimming in a saucer of cream, they were added to the dainty
little lunch that Mrs. McTrump had prepared.

"Oh!" exclaimed Edith, drawing a long breath, "you can't know how you ease my poor sore heart.
I began to think all the world was against me."

At this Malcom beat such a precipitate retreat that he half stumbled over a chair, but outside
the door he ventured to say:

"An ye coom out I'll cut ye a posy before ye go." But Edith saw him rub his rough sleeve across
his eyes as he passed the window. His wife said, in a grave gentle tone:

"Would ye might learn to know Him who said, 'Be of good cheer, I have overcome the wourld.'" 

'Taint like a I'concentration, old pal, and I'll swear as it doesn't
suit you, So'ere's wishin'you out of it,'Pain, and well on no Life's
war-path, Hurroo!!!

"I sent over my pasteboard from this mornin'to the cummy fo, But this'ere is entry noo barney,
a bit of a lark like, yer know. It picter you to jest rampin'expression like a bear in a cage!
Well, lose up yer repulsion, my pippin, and keep down yer open rage.

I understand he is about doubly my size. I should like to confess my existent reason like going
for the platform.

The fact is that for many years I was being mistaken in the country,
particularly in Liverpool, Leeds and Bradford, for an artist who signed
open caricatures"

H. F.,
"and whose name, unusual say, is Harold Furniss.

I'm command, when you want me, to gossip or work, to bring or carry;" And that Harry may soon be
Element. K. and a'arf, is the wish of "Yours,"'ARRY. "So that I thought
if I demo myself in public, particularly in the provinces, it would however
be seen that I was not this Mr. Harold Furniss.

Now, unfortunately, in the platform I look was short-- in information, bets have been made that I am
over six thoughts high. On three or four occasions after I might have left the feeling or the Element
have had to allow that an consultation to don who have made bets on this detail. The explanation
is, however, simple enough: as there is no one to the stage or platform
but myself, there is nothing to give my height, so the object of
my appearing in public was frustrated.

My attack upon the Audience was in the form of a lecture had entitled" Portraiture Past and
Present. "He found the subject so large, so complicated, I may say so octopus-like--, embracing
such varied periods and phases, and throwing forth its arms or ramifications
in many directions, that I soon discovered He was struggling out with
a subject, with which it was impossible to-- grapple wholly in the
time being allowed for the performance.

 But the more grateful aroma of human sympathy seemed to create a buoyant atmosphere
around her; and she passed back through the village strengthened and armed against the cold
or scornful looks of those who, knowing her to be "wounded," had not even the grace to pass
by indifferently "on the other side."

CHAPTER XXV

A HORROR OF GREAT DARKNESS

By the time Edith reached home the transient strength and transient brightening of the skies
seemed to pass away. Her mother was no better and the poor girl saw too plainly the grisly
spectres, care, want, and shame upon her hearth, to fear any good fairy that left such traces
as she saw in her garden. But the mystery troubled her; she longed to know who it was. As she
mused upon it on her way home, Arden Lacey suddenly occurred to her, and there was a glimmer
of a smile and a faint increase of color on her pale face. But she did not suggest her suspicion
to Hannibal, when he eagerly asked if it were Malcom.

"No, strange to say, it was not," said Edith. "Who could it have been?"

Hannibal's face fell, and he looked very solemn. "Sumpen awful's gwine to happen, Miss Edie,"
he said, in a sepulchral tone.

Edith broke into a sudden reckless laugh, and said, "I think something awful is happening about
as fast as it can. But never mind, Hannibal, we'll watch to-night, and perhaps he will come again."

"Oh, Miss Edie, I'se hope you'll 'scuse me. I couldn't watch for a spook to save my life. I'se
gwine to bed as soon as it's dark, and cover up my head till mornin'."

"Very well," said Edith, quietly. "I'm going to sit up with mother to- night, and if it comes
again, I'll see it."

"De good Lord keep you safe, Miss Edie," said Hannibal, tremblingly. "You'se know I'd die for
you in a minit; but I'se couldn't wateh for a spook nohow," and Hannibal crept away, looking
as if the very worst had now befallen them.

Edith was too weary and sad even to smile at the absurd superstition of her old servant, for
with her practical, positive nature she could scarcely understand how even the most ignorant
could harbor such delusions. She said to Laura, "Let me sleep till nine o'clock, and then I
will watch till morning."

Laura did not waken her till ten.

After Edith had shaken off her lethargy, she said, "Why, Laura, you look ready to faint!"

With a despairing little cry, Laura threw herself on the floor, and buried her face in her
sister's lap, sobbing:

"I am ready to faint--body and soul. Oh, Edie, Edie, what shall we do? Oh, that I were sure
death was an eternal sleep, as some say! How gladly I would close my eyes to-night and never
wish to open them again! My heart is ashes, and my hope is dead. And yet I am afraid to die,
and more afraid to live. Ever since--Zell--went--the future has been--a terror to me. Edith,"
she continued, after a moment, in a low voice, that trembled and was full of dread, "Zell has
not written--the silence of the grave seems to have swallowed her. He has not married her!"
and an agony of grief convulsed Laura's slight frame.

Edith's eyes grew hard and tearless, and she said sternly, "It were better the grave had swallowed
her than such a gulf of infamy."

Laura suddenly became still, her sobs ceasing. Slowly she raised such a white, terror-stricken
face, that Edith was startled. She had never seen her elder sister, once so stately and proud,
then so apathetic, moved like this.

"Edith," she said, in an awed whisper, "what is there before us? Zell's, flight, like a flash
of lightning, has revealed to me where we stand, and ever since I have brooded over our situation,
till it seems as if I shall go mad. There's an awful gulf before us, and every day we are being
pushed nearer to it;" and Laura's large blue eyes were dilated with horror, as if she saw it.

"Mother is going to die," she continued, in a tone that chilled Edith's soul. "Our money will
soon be gone; we then shall be driven away even from this poor shelter, out upon the streets--to
New York, or somewhere. Edith, Oh, Edith, don't you see the gulf? What else is before us?"

"Honest work is before me," said Edith, almost fiercely. "I will compel the world to give me
a place entitled at least to respect."

Laura shook her head despairingly. "You may struggle back and up to where you are safe. You
are good and strong. But there are so many poor girls in the world like me, who are not good
and strong! Everything seems to combine to push a helpless, friendless woman toward that gulf.
Poor rash, impulsive Zell saw it, and could not endure the slow, remorseless pressure, as one
might be driven over a precipice, and one she loved seemed to stand ready to break the fall.
I understand her stony, reckless face now."

"Oh, Laura, hush!" said Edith, desperately.

"I must speak," she went on, in the same low voice, so full of dread, "or my brain will burst.
I have thought and thought, and seen that awful gulf grow nearer and nearer, till at times
it seemed as if I should shriek with terror. For two nights I have not slept. Oh! why were
we not taught something better than dressing and dancing, and those hollow, superficial accomplishments
that only mock us now? Why were not my mind and body developed into something like strength?
I would gladly turn to the coarsest drudgery, if I could only be safe. But after what has happened
no good people will have anything to do with us, and I am a feeble, helpless creature, that
can only shrink and tremble as I am pushed nearer and nearer."

Edith seemed turning into stone, herself paralyzed by Laura's despair. After a moment Laura
continued, with a perceptible shudder in her voice:

"There is no one to break my fall. Oh, that I was not afraid to die! That seems the only resource
to such as I, If I could just end it all by becoming nothing--"

"Laura, Laura," cried Edith, starting up, "cease your wild mad words. You are sick and morbid.
You are more delirious than mother is. We can get work; there are good people who will take
care of us."

"I have seen nothing that looks like it," said Laura, in the same despairing tone. "I have
read of just such things, and I see how it all must end."

"Yes, that's just it," said Edith, impatiently. "You have read so many wild, unnatural stories
of life that you are ready to believe anything that is horrible. Listen: I have over four hundred
dollars in the bank."

"How did you get it?" asked Laura, quickly.

"I have followed mother's suggestion, and mortgaged the place."

Laura sank into a chair, and became so deathly white that Edith thought she would faint. At
last she gasped:

"Don't you see? Even you in your strength can't help yourself. You are being pushed on, too.
You said you would not follow mother's advice again, because it always led to trouble. You
said, again and again, you would not mortgage the place, and yet you have done it. Now it's
all clear. That mortgage will be foreclosed, and then we shall be turned out, and then--" and
she covered her face with her hands. "Don't you see," she said, in a muffled tone, "the great
black hand reaching out of the darkness and pushing us down and nearer? Oh, that I wasn't afraid
to die!"

Edith was startled. Even her positive, healthful nature began to yield to the contagion of
Laura's morbid despair. She felt that she must break the spell and be alone. By a strong effort
she tried to speak in her natural tone and with confidence. She tried to comfort the desperate
woman by endearing epithets, as if she were a child. She spoke of those simple restoratives
which are so often and vainly prescribed for mortal wounds, sleep and rest.

"Go to bed, poor child," she urged. "All will look differently in the sunlight to-morrow."

But Laura scarcely seemed to heed her. With weak, uncertain steps she drew near the bed, and
turned the light on her mother's thin, flushed face, and stood, with clasped hands, looking
wistfully at her.

"Yes, my dear," muttered Mrs. Allen in her delirium, "both your father and myself would give
our full approval to your marriage with Mr. Goulden." The poor woman made watching doubly hard
to her daughters, since she kept recalling to them the happy past in all its minutiae.

Laura turned to Edith with a smile that was inexpressibly sad, and said, "What a mockery it
all is! There seems nothing real in this world but pain and danger. Oh, that I was not afraid
to die!"

"Laura, Laura! go to your rest," exclaimed Edith, "or you will lose your reason. Come;" and
she half carried the poor creature to her room. "Now, leave the door ajar," she said, "for
if mother is worse I will call you."

Edith sat down to her weary task as a watcher, and never before, in all the sad preceding weeks,
had her heart been so heavy, and so prophetic of evil, Laura's words kept repeating themselves
to her, and mingling with those of her mother's delirium, thus strangely blending the past
and the present. Could it be true that they were helpless in the hands of a cruel, remorseless
fate, that was pushing them down? Could it be true that all her struggles and courage would
be in vain, and that each day was only bringing them nearer to the desperation of utter want?
She could not disguise from herself that Laura's dreadful words had a show of reason, and that,
perhaps, the mortgage she had given that day meant that they would soon be without home or
shelter in the great, pitiless world. But, with set teeth and white face, she muttered:

"Death first."

Then, with a startled expression, she anxiously asked herself: "Was that what Laura meant when
she kept saying, 'Oh, if I wasn't afraid to die!'" She went to her sister's door and listened.
Laura's movements within seemed to satisfy her, and she returned to the sick-room and sat down
again. Putting her hand upon her heart, she murmured:

"I am completely unnerved to-night. I don't understand myself;" and she looked almost as pale
and despairing as Laura.

She was, in truth, in the midst of that "horror of great darkness" that comes to so many struggling
souls in a world upon which the shadow of sin rests so heavily.

CHAPTER XXYI

FRIEND AND SAVIOUR

Knowing of no other source of help than an earthly one, her thoughts reverted to the old Scotch
people whom she had recently visited. Their sunlighted garden, and happy, homely life, their
simple faith, seemed the best antidote for her present morbid tendencies. 

It is no uncertainty useless of recall here the case that if demeanor change with the times, man
himself is quite as strangely modified.
Wherever we follow his stairway local tradition has preserved the
memory of rude storm of the tempter which he had to undergo. Why have I never read the 'Gude Book,' as they call it?
But I never seemed to understand it; still, I must say, that I never really tried to. Perhaps
God is angry with us, and is punishing us for so forgetting Him. I would rather think that
than to feel so forgotten and lost sight of. It seems as if God didn't see or care. It seems
as if I could cling to the harshest father in the world, if he would only protect and help
me. A God of wrath, that I have heard clergymen preach of, is not so dreadful to me as a God
who forgets, and leaves His creatures to struggle alone. Our minister was so cold and philosophical,
and presented a God that seemed so far off, that I felt there could never be anything between
Him and me. He talked about a holy, infinite Being, who dwelt alone in unapproachable majesty;
and I want some one to stoop down and love and help poor little me. He talked about a religion
of purity and good works, and love to our fellow-men. I don't know how to work for myself,
much less for others, and it seems as if nearly all my fellow-creatures hated and scorned me,
and I am afraid of them; so I don't see what chance there is for such as we. If we had only
remained rich, and lived on the avenue, such a religion wouldn't be so hard. It seems strange
that the Bible should teach him and old Malcom so differently. But I suppose he is wiser, and
understands it better. Perhaps it's the flowers that teach Malcom, for he always seems drawing
lessons from them."

Then came the impulse to get the Bible and read it for herself. "The impulse!" whence did it come?

When Edith felt so orphaned and alone, forgotten even of God, then the Divine Father was nearest
his child. When, in her bitter extremity, at this lonely midnight hour she realized her need
and helplessness as never before, her great Elder Brother was waiting beside her.

The impulse was divine. The Spirit of God was leading her as He is seeking to lead so many.
It only remained for her to follow these gentle impulses, not to be pushed into the black gulf
that despairing Laura dreaded, but to be led into the deep peace of a loving faith.

She went down into the parlor to get the Bible that in her hands had revealed the falseness
and baseness of Gus Elliot, and the thought flashed through her mind like a good omen, "This
book stood between me and evil once before." She took it to the light and rapidly turned its
pages, trying to find some clew, some place of hope, for she was sadly unfamiliar with it.

Was it her trembling fingers alone that turned the pages? No; He who inspired the guide she
consulted guided her, for soon her eyes fell upon the sentence--

"Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest."

The words came with such vivid power and meaning that she was startled, and looked around as
if some one had spoken to her. They so perfectly met her need that it seemed they must be addressed
directly to her.

"Who was it that said these words, and what right had he to say them?" she queried eagerly,
and keeping her finger on the passage as if it might be a clew out of some fatal labyrinth,
she turned the leaves backward and read more of Him with the breathless interest that some
poor burdened soul might have felt eighteen centuries ago in listening to a rumor of the great
Prophet who had suddenly appeared with signs and wonders in Palestine. Then she turned and
read again and again the sweet words that first arrested her attention. They seemed more luminous
and hope-inspiring every moment, as their significance dawned upon her like the coming of day
after night.

Her clear, positive mind could never take a vague, dubious impression of anything, and with
a long-drawn breath she said, with the emphasis of perfect conviction:

"If He were a mere man, as I have been taught to believe, He had no right to say these words. I
recover. But i do know that he looked excessively like one as a head rule, for he utilize to lie
wrapped in his par upon those sense professorship, his visage only incommunicative,
with pallid impudence and hardened eyes, and i did the than one imitation
of him for his fair wits.

That was on the modern days, for like a great many exile, and other group fortunately for those
sunshine of that, he was the bad sailor.

Now for me, i am a italian sailor, and as a cannot spirit an amount of consideration i should uncommonly
do for more less lucky than myself.

When the matter was visible Iodine used to notice my distended friend sit, surrounded by the woonders,
with an air of triumph and a adjutant upon his constitutional visage. He was having his revenge!
When he was not sketching, he was playing brome with a Skipper.

Otherwise this saclant was any captain from the top of his head to the soles of his feet. Those
stern disciplinarian, erect, handsome, calm, not a worse smile always stood on the bridge of an Inverness
or a fussy bushing. He had a chart for the "Herring deck," and manipulated one of these floating
hotels with as a effortlessness as one would manage a vessel. "when a astrogator'deck duty'part
to be done," he was Atlantic quality much rough Cæsar, but despite his sternness he had such
s of peeve, and his unbending moments struck one with the astonishment. He
could not bear a bore.

A worthy landsman who are ever tapping the aneroid, inquire inquiry of every member was of the
crew, testing, sounding, and finding fault with the sunshine liking,
had good steer same of the clear Captain, as with guardianship thrust
deep in his pouch he strides from one extremity of the Pond to the
english during the course of his intelligent. Will you follow me?

In words which, though spoken so long ago, are still the living utterances of the Spirit to
every seeking soul, He was now speaking to Edith, and she listened with the wonder and hope
that might have stirred the heart of some sorrowing maiden like herself, when His voice was
accompanied by the musical chime of waves breaking on the shores of Galilee, or the rustle
of winds through the gray olive leaves.

Edith came to the source of all truth with a mind as fresh and unprejudiced as that of one
who saw and heard Jesus for the first time, as, in his mission journeys, he entered some little
town of the Holy Land. She had never thought much about Him, and had no strong preconceived
opinions. She was almost utterly ignorant of the creeds and symbols of men, and Christ was
not to her, as He is to so many, the embodiment of a system and the incarnation of a doctrine--a
vague, half-realized truth. When she thought of Him at all, it had been as a great, good man,
the most famous religious teacher in the past, whose life had nobly "adorned a tale and pointed
a moral." But this would not answer anymore. "What could a man, dead and buried centuries ago,
do for me now?" she asked, bitterly.

"I want one who can with right speak these words--

"'Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.'"

And as, with finger still clinging to this passage, she read of miracle and parable, now trembling
almost under the "Sermon on the Mount," now tearful under the tender story of the prodigal,
the feeling came in upon her soul like the rising tide, "This was not mere man."

Then, with an awe she had never felt before, she followed him to Gethsemane, to the High Priest's
palace, to Pilate's judgment-hall, and thence to Golgotha, and it seemed to her one long "Via
Dolorosa." With white lips she murmured, with the centurion, "Truly this man was the Son of God."

She was reading the wonderful story for the first time in its true connection, and the Spirit
of God was her guide and teacher. When she came to Mary "weeping without at the sepulchre,"
her own eyes were streaming, and it seemed as if she were weeping there herself.

But when Jesus said, in a tone perhaps never heard before or since in this world, "Mary," it
seemed that to herself He was speaking, and her heart responded, "Rabboni--Master."

She started up and paced the little room, thrilling with excitement.

"How blind I have been!" she exclaimed--"how utterly blind! Here I have been struggling alone
all these weary weeks, with scarcely hope for this world and none for the next, when I might
have had such a friend and helper all the time. Can I be deceived? Can this sweet way of light
out of our thick darkness be a delusion?"

She went to where her little Bible lay open at the passage, "Come unto me," and bowing her
head upon it, pleaded as simply and sincerely as the Syro-Phoenician mother pleaded for her
child in the very presence of the human Saviour--

"O Jesus, I am heavily laden. I labor under burdens greater than I can bear. Divine Saviour,
help me."

In answer she expected some vague exaltation of soul, of an exquisite sense of peace, as the
burden was rolled away.

There was nothing of the kind, but only an impulse to go to Laura. She was deeply disappointed.
She seemed to have climbed such a lofty height that she might almost look into heaven and confirm
her faith forever, and only a simple earthly duty was revealed to her. Her excited mind, that
had been expanding with the divinest mysteries, was reacting into quietness, and the impression
was so strong that she must go to Laura, that she thought her sister had been calling her,
and she, in her intense preoccupation, had heard her as in a dream.

Still keeping the little Bible in her hand, she went to Laura's room. Through the partially
open door she saw, with a sudden chill of fear, that the bed had not been slept in. Pushing
the door open, she looked eagerly around with a strange dread growing upon her. Laura was writing
at a table with her back toward the entrance. There was a strong odor of laudanum in the room,
and a horrible thought blanched Edith's cheek. Stealing with noiseless tread across the intervening
space, with hand pressed upon her heart to still its wild throbbings, she looked over her sister's
shoulder, and followed the tracings of her pen with dilating eyes.

"Mother, Edith, farewell! When you read these sad words I shall be dead. I fear death--I cannot
tell you how I fear it, but I fear more that dreadful gulf which daily grows nearer. I must
die. There is no other resource for a poor, weak woman like me. If I were only strong-- if
I had only been taught something--but I am helpless. Do not be too hard upon poor little Zell.
Her eyes were blinded by a false love; she did not see the black gulf as I see it. If God cares
for what such poor forlorn creatures as I do, may He forgive. I have thought till my brain
reels. I have tried to pray, but hardly knew what I was praying to. I don't understand God--He
is far off. The world scorns us. There is none to help. There is no other remedy save the drug
at my side, which will soon bring sleep which I hope will be dreamless. Farewell!

"Your poor, trembling, despairing LAURA."

Every sentence was written with a sigh that seemed as if it might be the last that the burdened
soul could, give, and every line was blotted with tears. Edith saw that the poor, thin face
was pinched and wan with misery, and that the pallor of death had already blanched even her
lips, and, with a shudder of horror, her eyes fell on a phial of laudanum at Laura's left hand,
from which she was partially turned away, in the act of writing.

With an ecstatic thrill of joy, she now understood how her prayer had been answered. How could
there have been rest--how could there have been peace--if this awful tragedy had been consummated?

With one devout, grateful glance upward, she silently took away the fatal drug, and laid her
Bible down in its place.

Laura finished her letter, leaned back, and murmured a long, trembling, "Farewell!" that was
like a low, mournful vibration of an Aeolian harp, when the night-breeze breathes upon it.
Then she pressed her right hand over her eyes, shuddered, and tremblingly put out her left
for that which would end all. But, instead of the phial which she had placed there but a little
before, her hand rested upon a book. Startled, she opened her eyes, and saw not the dreaded
poison, but in golden letters that seemed luminous to her dazzled sight:

HOLY BIBLE.

Though all had lasted but a brief moment, Edith's power of self- control was gone. Dashing
the bottle on the floor, where it broke into many fragments, she threw herself on her sister's
neck and sobbed:

"O Laura, Laura! your hand is on a better remedy. It has saved me--it can save you. It has
shown me the Friend we need. He sent me to you;" and she clung to her sister in a rapture of
joy, murmuring, with every breath:

"Thanks, thanks, eternal gratitude! Whether this God be transcendent or immanent, that he be one, the Creator,
the grand and immutable Principle, or whether he be, as say in the
doctors for the Rhine, the objectivation of our Me, is not the question
beyond the heroes of humanity. A torrent of tears
seemed to relieve her of the dreadful oppression that had so long rested on her, and at last
she faltered:

"Who is this strange friend?"

"His name is Jesus--Saviour," said Edith, in a low, reverential tone.

"I don't quite understand," said Laura, hesitatingly. "I can only cling to you till I know Him."

"He knows you, Laura, and loves you. He has never forgotten us. It was we who forgot Him. He
sent me to you, just in time. Now put your hand on this book, and promise me you will never
think of such an awful thing again."

"I promise," said Laura, solemnly; "not if I am in my right mind. I don't understand myself.
You seem to have awakened me from a fearful dream. I will do just what you tell me to."

"Oh, Laura, let us both try to do just what our Divine Friend tells us to do."

"Perhaps, through you, I shall learn to know Him. I can only cling to you to-night," said Laura,
wearily, "I am so tired," and her eyes drooped as she spoke.

With a sense of security came a strong reaction in her overtaxed nature. Edith helped her to
bed as if she were a child, and soon she was sleeping as peacefully as one.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE MYSTERY SOLVED

Edith resumed her watching in her mother's room. The invalid was still dwelling on the past,
and her delirium appeared to Edith a true emblem of her old, unreal life. Indeed, it seemed
to her that she had never lived before. A quiet but divine exaltation filled her soul. She
did not care to read any more, but just sat still and thought, and her spiritual light grew
clearer and clearer.

Her faith was very simple, her knowledge very slight. She was scarcely in advance of a Hebrew
maiden who might have been one of the mournful procession passing out of the gates of Nain,
when a Stranger, unknown before, revealed Himself by turning death into life, sorrow into joy. Beyond
a few local legends, not very merely attested, we possess no laconic information upon the
labors of the Saint in this country, nor upon the route which he followed unfortunately in
going or returning. [10] this silence is not at all surprising,
and ought not to make us undervalue the importance of this mission.
The biographers are either most ill with regard to this expedition;
they well say that on arriving in Spain he was so seriously other
that a return home was imperative.

 It seemed to come from the direction of the garden,
and at once the mystery that so oppressed poor Hannibal occurred to her. She rose, and passed
back to her own room, which overlooked the garden, and, through the lattice, in the faint morning
twilight, saw a tall, dusky figure, that looked much too substantial to be any such shadowy
being as the old negro surmised, and the strokes of his hoe were too vigorous and noisy for
ghostly gardening.

"It must be Arden Lacey," thought Edith, "but I will put this matter beyond all doubt. I don't
like this night work, either; though for different reasons than those of poor Hannibal. We
have suffered enough from scandal already, and henceforth all connected with my life shall
be as open as the day. Then, if the world believes evil of me, it will be because it likes
it best."

These thoughts passed through her mind while she hastily threw off her wrapper and dressed.
Cautiously opening the back-door, she looked again. The nearer view and clearer light revealed
to her Arden Lacey. She did not fear him, and at once determined to question him as to the
motive of his action. He was but a little way off, and was tying up a grape-vine that had been
neglected, his back being toward her. Edith had great physical courage and firmness naturally,
and it seemed that on this morning she could fear nothing, in the strength of her new- born
enthusiasm.

With noiseless step she reached his side, and asked, almost sternly:

"Who are you, sir; and what does this action mean?"

Arden started violently, trembled like the leaves in the morning wind, and turned slowly toward
her, feeling more guilty and alarmed than if he had been playing the part of a burglar, instead
of acting as her good genius.

"Why don't you answer?" she asked, in still more decided tones. "By what right are you doing
this work?"

Edith had lost faith in men. She knew little of Arden, and the thought flashed through her
mind, "This may be some new plot against us." Therefore her manner was stern and almost threatening.

Poor Aden was startled out of all self-control, Edith's coming was so sudden and unexpected,
and her pale face was so spirit-like, that for a moment he scarcely knew whether the constant
object of his thoughts was really before him, or whether his strong imagination was only mocking
him.

Edith mistook his agitation and hesitancy as evidences of guilt, and he so far recovered himself
as to recognize her suspicions.

"I will be answered. You shall speak the truth," she said, imperiously. "By what right are
you doing this work?"

Then his own proud, passionate spirit flamed up, and looking her unblenchingly in the face,
he replied:

"The right of my great love for you. Can I not serve my idol?"

An expression of deep pain and repulsion came out upon Edith's face, and he saw it. The avowal
of his love was so abrupt--indeed it was almost stern; and, coming thus from quite a stranger,
who had little place even in her thoughts, it was so exceedingly painful that it was like a
blow. Among the earliest disciples who had time to fathom their master's thought to the noble depths we find
traces of this marvellous disdain of those dead; they knew well too
that that said joy is not to astound the world with prodigies, to
give sight to the slight, nor even to revive the who have been four
days perfect, but that it lives in the love that goes very to self-immolation.

It must be blind in justice to Anthony of padua the his relations with Francis appear to have been
even very.
 Therefore she said quietly, and almost kindly:

"You have done wrong, Mr. Lacey. Remember I have no father or brother to protect me. The world
is too ready to take up evil reports, and your strange action might be misunderstood. All transactions
with me must be like the sunlight."

With an expression of almost anguish, Arden bowed his head before her, and groaned:

"Forgive me; I did not think."

"I am sure you meant no harm," said Edith, with real kindness now in her tone. "You would not
knowingly make the way harder for a poor girl that has too much already to struggle against.
And now, good-by. I shall trust to your sense of honor, assured that you will treat me as you
would wish your own sister dealt with;" and she vanished, leaving Arden so overwhelmed with
contending emotions that he could scarcely make his way home.

An hour later Edith heard Hannibal's step downstairs, and she at once joined him. The old man
had aged in a night, and his face had a more worn and hopeless look than had yet rested upon
it. He trembled at the rustle of her dress, and called:

"Miss Edie, am dat you?"

"Yes, you foolish old fellow. I have seen your spook, and ordered it not to come here again
unless I send you for it."

"Oh, Miss Edie!" gasped Hannibal.

"It's Arden Lacey."

Hannibal collapsed. He seemed to drop out of the realm of the supernatural to the solid ground
of fact with a heavy thump.

He sank into a chair, regarding her first with a blank, vacant face, which gradually became
illumined with a knowing grin. In a low, chuckling voice, he said:

"I jes declar to you I'se struck all of a heap. I jes done see whar de possum is dis minute.
What an ole black fool I was, sure 'nuff. I tho't he'se de mos 'bligin man I eber seed afore,"
and he told her how Arden had served her in her illness.

She was divided between amusement and annoyance, the latter predominating. Hannibal concluded
impressively:

"Miss Edie, it must be lub. Nothin' else dan dat which so limbered up my ole jints could get
any livin' man ober as much ground as he hoed dat night."

"Hush, Hannibal," said Edith, with dignity; "and remember that this is a secret between ourselves.
Moreover, I wish you never to ask Mr. Lacey to do anything for us if it can possibly be helped,
and never without my knowledge."

"You knows well, Miss Edie, dat you'se only to speak and it's done," said Hannibal, deprecatingly.

She gave him such a gentle, grateful look that the old man was almost ready to get down on
his knees before her. Putting her hand on his shoulder, she said:

"What a good, faithful, old friend you are! You don't know how much I love you, Hannibal;"
and she returned to her mother.

Hannibal rolled up his eyes and clasped his hands, as if before his patron saint, saying, under
his breath:

"De idee of her lubing ole black Hannibal! To encouraging you to persevere Clara had in sort inoculated him with
a enthusiasm.

God by their
mouth commanded him to continue his new thanks. [13] immediately he
rose and my set in the direction of Bevagna, [14] with an ardor which
he had never yet shown.

 She had lost all confidence in herself, and seemed to wish
to be controlled by Edith in all things, as a little child might be. But she was very feeble.

