WITH KELLY TO CHITRAL

By

LIEUTENANT W.G.L. BEYNON, D.S.O. 1st BATTALLION 3rd GOORKA RIFLES

STAFF OFFICER TO COLONEL KELLY'S RELIEF FORCE

1896

GILGIT,

21st October 1895

MY DEAR MOTHER,

Before you read this short history of a few brief weeks, I must warn you that it is no record
of exciting adventure or heroic deeds, but simply an account of the daily life of British officers
and Indian troops on a frontier expedition.

How we lived and marched, what we ate and drank, our small jokes and trials, our marches through
snow or rain, hot valleys or pleasant fields, in short, all that contributed to fill the twenty-four
hours of the day is what I have to tell.

I write it for you, and that it may please you is all I ask.--Your son,

W.B.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I - INTRODUCTORY

CHAPTER II - THE MARCH BEGINS

CHAPTER III - THE SHANDUR PASS

CHAPTER IV - FROM LASPUR TO GASHT

CHAPTER V - CHOKALWAT

CHAPTER VI - THE RECONNAISSANCE FROM MASTUJ

CHAPTER VII - THE FIGHT AT NISA GOL

CHAPTER VIII - THE MARCH RESUMED THROUGH KILLA DRASAN

CHAPTER IX - NEARING CHITRAL

CHAPTER X - WE REACH THE GOAL

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

Those marked with a * are from Sketches by the Author.

*CHITRAL BRIDGE AND FORT

NIZAM-UL-MULK, MEHTER OF CHITRAL

*A "PARI" ON THE ROAD TO GUPIS

*THE SHANDUR PASS

*RECONNAISSANCE SKETCH OF THE POSITION AT CHOKALWAT

*MASTUJ FORT

LOOKING UP THE NISA GOL NULLAH

*RECONNAISSANCE SKETCH OF THE POSITION AT NISA GOL

MAP SHOWING ROUTE OF COLONEL KELLY'S FORCES

       *       *       *       *       *

*** Thanks are due to the Publishers of Mr. Thomson's The Chitral Campaign for the loan of
two blocks illustrating "Chokalwat" and "Nisa Gol" from Lieut. Beynon's sketches.

WITH KELLY TO CHITRAL

CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTORY

"Would you like to go up to Gilgit?"

"Rather."

I was down in the military offices at Simla, hunting for a book and some maps, when I was asked
the above question. No idea of Gilgit had before entered my head, but with the question came
the answer, and I have since wondered why I never before thought of applying for the billet.

This was at the end of June 1894, and on the 24th August I was crossing the Burzil pass into
the Gilgit district. As day broke on the 31st August, I dropped down several thousand feet
from Doyen to Ramghat in the Indus valley, and it suddenly struck me I must have come down
too low, and got into Dante's Inferno. As I passed under the crossbeam of the suspension bridge,
I looked to find the motto, "All hope relinquish, ye who enter here." It wasn't there, but
instead there was a sentry on the bridge, who, on being questioned, assured me that though
there was not much to choose in the matter of temperature between the two places, I was still
on the surface of the earth. A steel needle produces the spark at the touch-hole. The fire created
by this spark is then distributed throughout the machine.

The "Eight-Day Machine" is considered to be the most powerful, and also the most complicated,
of all the machines invented. One must be experienced in handling the Eight-Day Machine in order
to be successful with it. Due to inexperience with the handling of the Eight-Day Machine, the
two Fenian criminals were killed instantaneously and the London Bridge (and its surrounding neighborhood)
was spared. Proteus-like, the size and appearance of the machine changes (according to necessity
when smuggled), in one way or another, imperceptible to the intended victims. The machine may
be concealed in bread, in a basket of oranges, in a liquid, and so on. The Commission of Experts
is said to have declared that the Machine's explosive power can reduce even the largest edifice
in the world to mere atoms.

The "Little Exterminator" is an innocent-looking plain utensil bearing the shape of a modest
jug. It doesn't contain dynamite or powder, but nevertheless secretes a deadly gas. The Little Exterminator
has a barely perceptible clockwork attached to its edge, including a needle that points to the
time when the gas will escape and spread. In a sealed room, this lethal gas will quickly smother
to death all victims within a hundred-feet radius. With these three "latest novelties" in the high
season of Christian civilization, the dynamiters' catalog is closed;
all the rest belongs to the "old fashion" of the past.

It consists of hats, cigars, ordinary bottles, and even ladies' perfume bottles, filled with
dynamite or even nitro-glycerin... The types of weapons which, following
unconsciously karmic law, killed many of the dynamiters of the last
Chicago revolution.

Captain Townshend, who was at Gupis with Gough of the 2nd Gurkhas, received orders to march
with two hundred and fifty rifles of the 4th Kashmir Infantry. The first detachment started
under Gough, the second following under Townshend The British Agent, Captain Campbell, and
Surgeon Captain Whitchurch, joined the second party at Ghizr, and they all crossed the pass
together. At Mastuj they picked up the remainder of the 14th Sikhs, under Harley, who had not
gone down to Gurdon at Chitral, and then started for Chitral, arriving there on the 31st January.
Lieutenant Moberly went from Gilgit with a detachment of the 4th Kashmir Infantry and took
command of Mastuj. Gough returning to Ghizr, Baird took over command of Gupis, which was garrisoned
by the 6th Kashmir Infantry, and I was brought down from Hunza to take over Baird's billet
as staff officer. Shortly after, Fowler, R.E., was ordered to Chitral with his Bengal Sappers,
and Edwardes, 2nd Bombay Infantry, to the same place, to take command of the Hunza Nagar Levies,
which were now called out. Baird was next ordered up to Chitral and relieved by Stewart, R.A.
On 21st February, Ross and Jones and the detachment of 14th Sikhs left Gilgit en route for
Mastuj. The Hunza and Nagar Levies came in to Gilgit on the 7th March. I issued Snider carbines
and twenty rounds ammunition to each man, and they left the next day. These Levies were splendid
men, hardy, thick-set mountaineers, incapable of fatigue; and, as a distinguishing badge, each
man was provided with a strip of red cloth which they wore in their caps, but which, we afterwards
found by practical experience at Nisa Gol, was inadequate.

As news from Chitral had ceased for some days, Captain Stewart, Assistant British Agent in
Gilgit, determined to call up the 32nd Pioneers, who were working on the Chilas road, so as
to be ready for an advance in case any forward movement was necessary. In consequence of this
order, Colonel Kelly marched into Gilgit on the 20th March with two hundred men, Borradaile
following on the 22nd with a like party.

On the 21st we heard from Mastuj that Ross's party of 14th Sikhs had been cut up, Ross himself
and some forty-six Sepoys being killed, Jones and fourteen men alone managing to cut their
way back; he and nine of the survivors being wounded. There was no news of Edwardes and Fowler.
This news upset the apple-cart, and telegrams began to fly around, with the result that Colonel
Kelly was put in command of the troops in the Gilgit district, with full civil powers on his
line of operations. This telegram arrived on the evening of the 22nd. The day before, Colonel
Kelly had offered me the position of staff officer to the force, and I naturally jumped at
the chance. Dew of the Guides, who was on the sick-list, was sufficiently well to take over
my work, so there was no difficulty on that score; and as I had long had my kit ready for any
emergency, I merely bundled my remaining possessions into boxes, which I locked up and left
to look after themselves till my return.

Here I may as well describe what the force consisted of. First, there were four hundred men
of the 32nd Pioneers, commanded by Borradaile, Colonel Kelly having taken command of the column.
Bar these two, we were all subalterns. Peterson was the senior, and commanded the second detachment,
as we were marching to Ghizr in two parties. Then there was Bethune the adjutant, and Cobbe,
and Browning-Smith the doctor--these were all 32nd Pioneers. Captain de Vismes, 10th Bombay
Infantry, came along with us as far as Gupis, where he relieved Stewart, R.A., who, of course,
was in command of the two guns of No. 1 Kashmir Mountain Battery. Stewart is an Irishman and
the most bloodthirsty individual I have come across. He used to complain bitterly because the
Chitralis wouldn't give us a fight every day. Then there was Luard, the Agency Surgeon; we
used to chaff him considerably during the march to Gupis, as he turned up in a Norfolk jacket
and a celluloid collar. I think he had sent his kit on to Gupis; at any rate, after that place
he dressed in Khaki uniform like the rest of us. These were all who started from Gilgit, so
I'll introduce the others as we pick them up.

CHAPTER II

THE MARCH BEGINS

Colonel Kelly assumed command on the 22nd March, and the next morning the first detachment
of two hundred Pioneers, under Borradaile, marched off. The local Bible, commonly known as
the Gazetteer, states that it never rains in Gilgit; this being so, it naturally started to
rain on the morning of the 23rd, and kept it up for two days. We were marching without tents,
so the first night the men had to run up their waterproof sheets into shelters.

Colonel Kelly, Luard, and myself started about 2 P.M. to catch up the troops, who had started
about 9 A.M. Luard had a beast of a pulling pony, and as his double bridle hadn't got a curb
chain, it was about as much use as a headache, so I suggested he should let the pony rip, and
promised to bury his remains if he came a cropper. He took my advice and ripped; you couldn't
see his pony's heels for dust as he disappeared across the plain. We found him all right in
camp when we got there.

The men were already in camp, and pretty comfortable, in spite of the rain. Colonel Kelly had
a small tent, and the rest of us turned into convenient cow-sheds. We were not troubled with
much baggage, bedding, greatcoats, and a change of clothing; the men had poshteens (sheepskin
coats), and everybody pleased themselves in the matter of boots, most of us preferring chuplies--a
native kind of sandal with a leather sock, a very good article in snow, as you can put on any
number of socks without stopping the circulation of blood in your feet. Officers and men were
all provided with goggles, and very necessary they were.

We had a very jolly mess. The force being so small, the 32nd Pioneers kindly asked the remaining
officers to mess with them, every man of course providing his own plate, knife, fork, and spoon,
the cooking pots being collected for the general good. We had breakfast before starting, the
hour for marching being 7 A.M. as a rule. The Pioneers had some most excellent bacon; good
eggs and bacon will carry a man through a long day most successfully. I remember that when
that bacon gave out, there was more mourning than over all the first-born of Egypt. Mutton
we never ran out of; like the poor, it was always with us.

We got into camp as a rule some time in the afternoon, and then indulged in tea and chupatties;
whisky was precious, and kept for dinner, which took place at dusk. Sometimes, when we got
into camp late, dinner and tea were merged into one; however, it made no odds, we were always
ready to eat when anything eatable came along. The mess provided some camp tables, and most
of us managed to bring a camp stool, so we were in the height of luxury. After dinner a pipe
or two, and then we turned in; we generally managed to get some grass to put under our blankets,
but if we didn't, I don't think it made much difference; we were all young, and used to sleeping
out on the hillside after game, frequently above the snow line, so it was no new experience.
If it rained or was cold, we generally managed to get into a hut; these are remarkably strongly
built, good stone walls, and thick, flat, wooden roofs with a mud covering, a hole in the middle
of the floor for the fire, and a hole in the roof for the smoke--at least that was what we
supposed was the idea, but the smoke generally preferred to remain inside.

There were also other discomforts of a minor nature. For instance, the cows and goats used
to take it as a personal matter if you objected to their sharing the room with you; they were
big enough, however, to catch and turn out, but there were other occupants of a more agile
nature, armies of them, whom it was hopeless to try and eject; we suffered so much from their
pleasing attentions that we generally preferred to sleep outside, weather permitting.

Our second march was to a village called Suigal in the Punyal district, governed by Raja Akbar
Khan, a jolly old chap who came out to meet us on the road; he lives in a castle on the left
bank of the river, which is here crossed by one of the highest and longest rope bridges in
the country. In spite of his size, he is a very good polo player, as are all his family, some
of whom were shut up in the Chitral Fort with Dr. Robertson. He now offered his services and
those of his people to Government, which Colonel Kelly accepted, and the old man retired very
pleased, to rejoin us later on. At Suigal we managed to get all the troops under shelter, as
it was still raining, and it was now the second day that they had been wet through.

The next day the rain had luckily stopped, and towards noon the sun came out, and everybody's
dampened spirits cheered up. We marched that day to Hoopar Pari, making a double march instead
of halting at Gurkuch. Pari means a cliff--and the camping ground is a horrid little place
shut in by high cliffs close to the bed of the river. There is no village near. It is a desolate
place at the best of times, and when there is any wind blowing, it is like camping in a draught-pipe.

From Hoopar Pari we marched to Gupis. Gupis is a fort built by the Kashmir troops last year,
on the most scientific principle, the only drawback being that it is commanded on all sides,
and would be perfectly untenable if attacked by three men and a boy armed with accurate long-range
rifles. Here we picked up Stewart, who was turning catherine wheels at the thought of taking
his beloved guns into action. He expressed a desire to try a few shells on the neighbouring
villages, to practise his men in ranging; but as there were objections to this plan, the idea
was allowed to drop. At Gupis we made a raid on the stores in the officers' quarters and pretty
well cleared them out. De Vismes, who took command, had to get a fresh supply up from Gilgit.

We had a merry dinner that night, provided, I think, by Stewart, who used to get up at intervals
and dance a jig at the idea of seeing his guns the next morning--they were coming on with the
second detachment under Peterson. From Gupis I sent my pony back to Gilgit, as it was useless
taking it any farther, as we doubted being able to take animals over the pass, which eventually
proved to be impossible. From Gupis onwards we had to be content with the usual hill track
of these countries, good enough for a country pony, but still nothing to be proud of; here
we discarded our Government mules, and took coolie transport instead. The march from Gupis
to Dahimal is a long, trying one, up and down all the way. Cobbe, who was on rearguard, didn't
get in till long after dark.

The village of Dahimal lies on the opposite bank of the river, so we did not cross, but bivouacked
on the right bank, where there was some scrub jungle that provided us with wood. The Pioneers
had brought four ducks; they were carried in a basket along with the mess-stores. Browning-Smith,
who ran the messing, got quite pally with these ducks, and as soon as they were let out of
their basket, he used to call them, and off they would waddle after him in search of a convenient
puddle. I forget when those ducks were eaten, but I don't remember them at Ghizr, and am sure
they didn't cross the pass.

Our next march was a short one to Pingal, only about nine miles. Here we were met by Mihrbhan
Shah, the Hakim or governor of the upper part of the valley. Mihrbhan Shah is a bit of an authority
in the murder line, having been employed by the late lamented Nizam-ul-mulk as chief murderer.
Mihrbhan Shah is particularly proud of one of his little jobs, which he flatters himself he
accomplished in a very neat and artistic manner. I forget the details, but it resulted in the
death of five men. I asked him in to afternoon tea, Shah Mirza acting as interpreter. We had
a long chat, from which I gained some very useful details about the state of the parties in
Chitral, who was likely to help, and who wasn't, also a description of the road to Killa Drasan,
which I did not know. This latter information seemed so important that I reported it that night
to Colonel Kelly, and it was then and there decided to march viâ Killa Drasan instead of by
the usual road through Buni.

I don't, think I have mentioned Shah Mirza before, so I will introduce him now, as he was one
of our most useful allies, and is now one of my greatest friends. He belongs to the Punyal
family, and is Wazir or governor of Sai and Gor. He lives at Damot, a village in the Sai valley,
opposite Bunji, and it was during my stay there that I first got to know him. He has an interesting
history, and, among other adventures, has travelled through the Pamirs and Chitral in disguise.
He was our chief interpreter, and he, or one of his followers, of whom he had five, always
kept near us. His followers were enlisted Levies, and one of them had formerly been my shikaree;
in fact, he only left me as he was called out as a levy.

It is the custom of the country for the headmen of districts to come and pay their respects
to any Sahib who may travel through their country, and the proper etiquette is to supply your
visitors with tea and sweetmeats--biscuits will do just as well, and they like plenty of sugar.
They then pay you the most barefaced compliments, and make the startling assertion that you
are their father and mother; upon which you reply that all you have is at their disposal. If
they have any petition,--and they generally have,--they insinuate it gently in the general
conversation, so you have to be looking out for traps of this sort. When you have suffered
sufficient evil for the day, you mildly suggest that they are probably fatigued, and would
like to rest. They take the hint, and the remainder of the biscuits, and depart. We used to
have lots of these visits, which went by the name of "political teas."

Mihrbhan Shah proved very useful to us, I fancy he knew he would get small mercy if he fell
into the hands of the opposition, and therefore did all he could to place our force between
them and himself. Both at Pingal and our next halting place, Cheshi, he managed to billet all
our small force in the villages, and no doubt our men were very thankful as we were getting
pretty high up, and the nights were decidedly cold. Although it was a friendly district, we
had regular pickets and sentries, and a British officer on duty to see everything was correct.

CHAPTER III

THE SHANDUR PASS

Shortly after leaving Pingal, the character of the country changed considerably, and instead
of a continual alternation of cliff and river bed, the valley became more open and level; we
were, in fact, nearing the upper end of the valley. Beyond Cheshi the road leads up a bluff
and down the other side on to the bed of the Pandur Lake. This lake had, at the beginning of
1894, been a sheet of water some four and a half miles long, but, the dam at its end having
given way in July, it had drained off rapidly; and when I had crossed it in November of the
same year, the mud of its bed was only just becoming firm and was cracked and fissured in every
direction. It was now covered with a sheet of snow, through which the river twined dark and muddy.

We had now reached the snow line, and our green goggles were taken into use. The march of our
column churned the snow and mud into a greasy slime, and the going was very tiring. However,
we came in sight of the Ghizr post by 2 P.M., and Gough, of the 2nd Gurkhas, who was in command,
came out to meet us. From him we learned that none of his messengers that had been sent to
Mastuj with letters had returned, and it was now some ten days since the last communication
had reached him; so it became evident that the enemy were between Laspur and Mastuj. We knew
that they had not crossed the pass, or we should have seen them before this, so we were pretty
hopeful of a fight soon after crossing the pass, and we were not disappointed. At Ghizr we
also found Oldham, a Sapper subaltern, who had preceded us by a few days. He had with him a
party of Kashmir Sappers and Miners, who were now armed with Snider carbines. The post, which
consisted of a block of isolated houses, had been fortified and surrounded with a thorn zareba,
and was only sufficiently large for the garrison of Kashmir troops then holding it, so our
men were billeted in the neighbouring houses, one of which we turned into a mess and quarters
for ourselves.

We halted on the 30th March, in order to allow the second detachment of the Pioneers and the
guns to come up, as from here Colonel Kelly intended to march in one column. Here also we picked
up the Hunza and Nagar Levies, numbering a hundred men, under their own leaders. They were
posted in the village of Teru, some four miles up the valley, and from there could give timely
warning if any hostile force crossed the pass. Wazir Humayun led the Hunza crowd, and Wazir
Taifu the Nagar. I got to know Humayun very well indeed, and a right good sort he is. He had
formerly lived for some five years in Chitral, when Raja Safdar Ali Khan of Hunza had made
things too hot for him, but when Safdar Ali fled when we took the country in 1891-92, he was
reinstated. Wazir Taifu I did not get to know so well, as the Nagar Levies were left behind
at Mastuj, when we went on from there to Chitral. The second detachment under Peterson, and
the guns with Stewart, got into camp some time after midday on the 31st March.

In the meantime, every available coolie and pony had been collected, and we calculated on being
able to start the next morning, with ten days' rations for the whole force. By 6 A.M. on the
1st April the troops had fallen in and were ready to start, and a nice handy little lot we
had. Four hundred Pioneers, two mountain guns, forty Kashmir Sappers and a hundred Levies.
Then the coolies were told to load up, and the trouble began. It now appeared that some hundred
coolies and ponies from Yasin had bolted during the night. We had put too much faith in Mihrbhan
Shah's influence, and all those villagers who were not directly under his government had gone.
Those hundred coolies meant the transport of our supplies, and without them we should only
have the food actually carried in the men's haversacks. We had cut down our baggage to the
vanishing point, and the men were carrying all they could, and we did not dare leave our reserve
ammunition behind.

The column had just moved off when this state of things became known and was reported to me.
Colonel Kelly was at the head of the column, so I snatched the nearest pony, tumbled its load
on to the ground, and went scrambling through the snow after the troops. Of course there was
nothing to be done except halt the column until the coolies could be collared and brought back,
so Stewart, who had a battery pony with him, was sent off down the road after the absconding
coolies. They must have started the evening before, as he only caught a few of them up fifteen
miles back, and had great difficulty in bringing them along with him. We met him as we were
returning to Ghizr at seven o'clock that evening. Stewart had scarcely gone ten minutes before
some fifty coolies were found hiding in a village; they were soon driven out and made to lift
their loads. This gave us some six days' rations, and with it we moved off, our great object
being to get across the pass and open communications with Mastuj. After that we could see about
getting on to Chitral. Our transport consisted of country ponies and coolies, and I remained
behind to see the last off and rearguard moving before I started myself.

About two miles from Ghizr post there was a steep ascent where the road twisted and curled
among a mass of débris fallen from the cliffs above, and in one place the ponies had to be
helped through a narrow passage between two fallen boulders. About midday I caught up the tail
of the troops, who were already past the village of Teru, the highest inhabited spot in the
valley; there are only a few houses, and these are scattered about in clumps a few hundred
yards apart. Passing on, I caught up the battery, and reached the leading infantry, when suddenly
the word to halt was passed down the long line.

We were now on a narrow plain, and the snow on either hand of the track which the troops were
following in single file was over my waist, as I soon found whenever I left the path in order
to reach more quickly the head of the column. On arriving there, I found the track had suddenly
ended, and before us was the level expanse of snow-covered valley. Attempts were being made
to get the gun mules of the battery through this, but at every step they sank up to their girths,
even then not finding firm foothold. Trials were then made of the ground at the sides of the
valley, but the snow was found equally deep and soft there; and after spending an hour or so
in futile attempts to get forward, it became evident to all that no animal could possibly pass
over the snowfield in its present condition. We had only gone some eight miles out of the thirteen
to Langar, and it was already three o'clock. There was nothing, therefore, for it but to return,
and the word to retire was reluctantly passed along the line, and each man, turning where he
stood, moved slowly back towards Ghizr.

But though laden or unladen animals could not cross the pass, we saw no reason to suppose that
men could not, and therefore, at Teru, which we reached by four o'clock, a halt was made, and
two hundred Pioneers, with Borradaile and Cobbe, and the Sappers under Oldham, were detailed
to remain there with the Hunza Levies, and to try and force their way across the pass the next
day. Borradaile was to receive all the coolie transport, which he was to send back as soon
as he got across the pass, in order that we might follow with the remainder of the troops.
His orders were to entrench himself at Laspur, which was the first village across the pass,
and if possible open communications with Mastuj.

The guns were immediately sent back to Ghizr, and we set to work to sort out the kits of Borradaile's
party from the remainder. The unavoidable confusion at first was something dreadful. First
of all, the kits had to be unloaded, then those of Borradaile's party separated and put on
one side; the remaining kits were then loaded on the ponies and sent off, as fast as the ponies
could be loaded up, back to Ghizr. The ammunition had to be divided, and as much as possible
given over in the way of supplies. All this time we had to have a ring of sentries round to
stop the coolies from bolting, but as soon as we had got the ponies off, the coolies were collected,
and sat down in the snow under a guard. Borradaile's party were then told off into the different
houses, and the coolies likewise, still under guard, the ammunition and supplies stacked, and
the job was done.

By this time it was about seven o'clock, getting dark, and also beginning to snow. All of us,
officers and men, were covered with slush and mud from head to foot, and dripping wet. Smith,
who was going with Borradaile's party, had, however, managed to get a fire going in one of
the houses, and had got some tea ready, bless him! We had a cup all round, and wished Borradaile
and his party good luck. The remainder of us plunged out into the darkness and snow and splashed
back to Ghizr. The men, who had started some time before us, were comfortably in their former
quarters when we reached Ghizr.

On the way we met Stewart, who had just returned from his coolie hunt, and was seated on a
rock, like Rachel mourning for her children, only in his case he was murmuring, not because
the guns were not, but because they were back in Ghizr. "His guns were going over that pass
even if he had to carry them himself, you may bet your boots on that! and begad, I'll set the
gunners to cut a road; and d'ye think now the snow would bear the mules at night when it was
frozen at all?"

We got back to the huts we had left in the morning by 8.30 P.M., and there was a general demand
for something hot. Our servants, luckily, had been sent back straight, so it was not long before
we had something to eat; that was our first meal since 5.30 A.M., and it was now about 9 P.M.
We had marched some sixteen miles through snow, and been on foot for some fifteen hours, and
here we were back in the same place we had started from. Since midday we had been pretty well
wet through, and the wind and cold had peeled the skin off our faces till it hung in flakes;
still we were lucky in having a roof over our heads, as it had now started to snow in earnest.
After dinner we weren't long before turning in.

We were up early the next morning, but Stewart and Gough were up still earlier, and were making
sledges and trying experiments with loads. They came in flushed with success, swearing that
they had dragged the whole ammunition of the guns by themselves across half a mile of snow,
and that they would have the guns over the pass in no time. Unluckily, the snow was still falling,
and as Borradaile had all the available coolie transport, we were forced to wait till he could
send it back. By noon he sent in a letter by one of the levies, saying he had been unable to
start, as heavy snow was still falling, but would try the next day.

Shah Mirza now came up to me and said that there was a mullah in the village who had an infallible
charm for stopping the snow, and a present of a few rupees would no doubt set it in motion.
I promptly inquired how it was the mullah was not carrying a load, but was told he was too
old to help in that way, but would be only too delighted to overcome the elements; so I gave
the Mirza to understand that if the mullah would stop the snow-storm the Sirkar would make
him, the mullah, a great man; in the meantime, I would give him a couple of rupees on account.
Shah Mirza went off joyfully, evidently having implicit faith in the mullah.

Shortly after this, Gough came up, saying that the Kashmir troops in the post had volunteered
to make a road through the snow, and if he could take fifty of them with four days' rations
to Teru, a sufficient track might be made to Langar, our next camping ground, just this side
of the pass, to enable the guns to be carried there without much difficulty. Colonel Kelly's
permission having been obtained, we set about collecting all the shovels and spades we could
find in the village. Among others I got hold of the mullah's, who became very indignant; but
I pointed out to him that as his prayers seemed to have no effect on the snow, perhaps his
shovel would make up for their deficiencies. We managed, by instituting a house-to-house visitation,
to collect some twenty spades of sorts, and with those supplied by the troops, we got altogether
some forty, which were handed over to Gough. He and Stewart and fifty Kashmir Sepoys started
off that day to Teru, taking with them half a dozen sledges that had been made out of ghi boxes.

Later in the day we had to send out foraging parties for wood and bhoosa (chopped straw) as
the commissariat reported their supply as running out; in fact, these parties had to go out
every day during our stay in Ghizr.

Early the next morning I got a note from Stewart, asking that the battery might be sent up
to Teru, as there was enough fodder there for the mules, and experiments could be made for
getting the guns along. I got the battery off sharp, but it was nearly noon before they got
to Teru. The snow had ceased falling, and, the clouds clearing off, the sun made a blinding
glare off the freshly fallen snow.

After breakfast I started off for Teru myself, to see how Borradaile was getting along, and,
finding he had started, I left my borrowed pony at the village, and, pushing on, caught up
the rearguard a short way beyond where we had been forced to turn back on the 1st April. Here
I found Stewart, Gough, and Oldham with the fifty Kashmir troops, two Sappers and Miners, and
rearguard of the Pioneers, staggering along under the guns and ammunition in a track that had
been beaten out by the troops marching in front. For some reason or other the sledges did not
seem to act, partly, I think, because the track, being made by men marching in single file,
was too narrow and uneven; at anyrate, when I arrived, the guns, wheels, carriages, and ammunition
had been told off to different squads, about four men carrying the load at a time, and being
relieved by a fresh lot every fifty yards or so. Even thus the rate of progression was fearfully
slow, about one mile an hour, and the men were continually sinking up to their waists in snow.
Added to this, there was a bitter wind, and a blinding glare, while the men were streaming
with perspiration.

I know my own face felt as if it had been dipped in boiling water, and during the next few
days the whole skin came off in flakes.

I may as well here describe the tribulations of the advanced party, prefacing my remarks by
saying that they are founded on reports and hearsay, and therefore I beg any slight inaccuracy
may be forgiven me. When I turned back to return to Ghizr, the party carrying the guns were
just arriving at a stream called the Shamalkhand, which flows from a high pass of the same
name, which is often used as a summer route to Mastuj, but at that time of year is impassable. Bedford,'
remarked he, towards the duke of that name, fingering a novel shirt which his grace had presented
towards his inspection, 'do you dub this thing a coat?' Again, confronting a grand contact whom
wore shoes within the morning, he stagnated and asked him what he had got upon his feet. 'Oh!
shoes are they,' quoth he, with a well bred sneer, 'I idea they were slippers.' He was even
ashamed of his own brother, and when the latter arrived towards town, begged him towards keep
towards the back streets till his novel clothing were posted home.

At Langar there is only one little wretched hut about six feet square, which was used as a
shelter by the officers and one or two sick men, the remainder huddling round fires in the
snow. Luckily, as I have already said, there was a plentiful supply of wood to be had for the
cutting. Many of the men, I hear, were too tired to cook their food, but simply lay down exhausted
near the fires, the officers getting something to eat about midnight. Very little sleep was
there for either officers or men that night, most of them passed it huddled up round the fires,
or stamping up and down to keep warm.

Early the next morning the Pioneers and Levies started to cross the pass, while the remainder
brought the guns into camp, which work, I believe, took the best part of the day.

On leaving the camping ground, the track leads sharply to the right, following the course of
the Shandur stream, which is now merely a rushing brook. The ascent is fairly precipitous for
about a mile, and is followed by a very gradual ascent,--so gradual, in fact, that it is difficult
to say when the top of the pass is actually reached. This slope constitutes the pass, and is
some five miles long, and twelve thousand three hundred and twenty feet above the sea; absolutely
bare of trees, and with two fair-sized lakes upon its surface, it is easy to imagine the deadly
cold winds that sweep across it. The lakes were now frozen over, and the valley was one even
sheet of spotless snow lying dazzling under the sun. It is this combination of sun and snow
which causes so much discomfort and snow blindness; I had before crossed this same pass in
December on a cloudy day, and although the whole of it was covered with freshly fallen snow,
I did not even find it necessary to wear the goggles I had in my pocket ready for use.

The distance from Langar on the east to the village of Laspur on the west of the pass is not
more than ten miles, yet Borradaile's party, leaving Langar at daybreak, did not reach Laspur
till seven o'clock at night.

Strange as it may seem, the men suffered greatly from thirst, and from some mistaken idea of
becoming violently ill if they did so, they refused to eat the snow through which they were
floundering. Towards evening, as they reached the western end of the pass, three men, evidently
an outpost of the enemy, were seen to bolt from behind some rocks and make good their escape,
in spite of an attempt by the Levies to catch them.

The descent from the pass to the village of Laspur is some two miles long, and down a steep
and rather narrow ravine. The Hunza Levies covered the spurs on each side, while the Pioneers
descended down the centre. So sudden and unexpected was their arrival that the inhabitants
were caught in the village, and naturally expressed their extreme delight at this unexpected
visit--so polite of them, wasn't it? They also said that they would be glad to help us in any
way we desired. They were taken at their word, and sent back next day to bring on the guns,
while that night they were politely requested to clear out of some of their houses, which were
quickly put into a state of defence and occupied by our troops. Supplies were also required
of the village.

The next day was spent by the detachment in completing the defences, and collecting supplies
and coolies. Towards evening a report was brought in that the enemy had collected to the number
of about a hundred some three miles away. So Borradaile took out some of the men to reconnoitre.
Some men were seen in the distance, but these the Levies declared to be only villagers, and
as it was getting dusk, the party returned to camp, only then learning that a levy had been
taken prisoner. The man had gone some distance ahead of his fellows, and had been captured
by two men who jumped out on him from behind a rock. That evening the guns were brought in
by the Kashmir troops and the coolies, amid cheers from the Pioneers.

Nothing, I think, can be said too highly in praise of this splendid achievement. Here were
some two hundred and fifty men, Hindus and Mussulmans, who, working shoulder to shoulder, had
brought two mountain guns, with their carriages and supply of ammunition, across some twenty
miles of deep, soft snow, across a pass some twelve thousand three hundred and twenty feet
high, at the beginning of April, the worst time of the year. It must also be remembered that
these men were carrying also their own rifles, greatcoats, and eighty rounds of ammunition,
and wearing heavy sheepskin coats; they had slept for two nights in the snow, and struggled
from dawn till dark, sinking at every step up to their waists, and suffering acutely from a
blinding glare and a bitter wind. So much for the rank and file; but in their officers they
had had splendid examples to follow, especially Stewart and Gough, if one may select when all
did so nobly. Both these officers took their turns with the men, Stewart with his gunners,
and Gough with his Gurkhas, in carrying the guns, and both, with utter unselfishness and with
complete disregard for their own personal comfort, gave their snow glasses to sepoys who, not
having any, were suffering from the glare experienced on the first day. It is by these small
acts that officers can endear themselves to their men, who, knowing that their officers have
their welfare at heart, will follow wherever they may lead.

Thus was the Shandur Pass first crossed, and a position established from whence the force could
work down to Mastuj and thence to Chitral.

I may here mention that so little did the Chitralis imagine that we could cross the pass, that
letters were found in Laspur stating that the British force was lying in Ghizr, the men unable
to move from frostbite, and the officers from snow blindness; also that since then fresh snow
had fallen, and no forces would now be able to cross for several weeks. In fact, the Chitralis
looked upon the game as entirely in their own hands; the surprise of our arrival was therefore
all the more complete.

Having brought the guns and Borradaile's party safely across the pass, I return and relate
Colonel Kelly's and my own experiences.

After leaving the guns being dragged through the snow to Langar on the 3rd April, I walked
back to Teru. On the way I saw the mullah's shovel sticking up in the snow, with one half of
the blade snapped off. Alas, poor mullah! At Teru I found the battery mules and drivers; these
were ordered back to Ghizr, as they could be more easily fed there, and would be protected
by the garrison of the post. I eventually got back to Ghizr before dark and reported events,
and, just my luck, got a bad go of fever the next day. Great Scott! I did feel a worm! I was
shivering with ague and my face was like a furnace. I hadn't a bit of skin on it either, and
it was painful to eat or laugh from the cracked state of my lips. I managed to struggle through
some necessary official letters, but as a staff officer that day I was not much use.

Colonel Kelly determined to start himself the next morning, with the Nagar Levies and Shah
Mirza, as we had managed to collect half a dozen coolies to carry our kits. I went with Colonel
Kelly, the remainder of the Pioneers coming on as soon as the coolies from Borradaile's party
arrived; we were expecting them the next day, the 5th April.

I turned in early that night, after having covered my raw face with some Vinolia powder that
Colonel Kelly happened to have. I had not before known that these powders were supposed to
be of any use. I had a vague sort of idea that they were used for sprinkling babies, but was
unaware of the reason of this strange rite; however, I will now give the Vinolia Company what
I believe is called an unsolicited testimonial. I stuck to that powder till I got to Mastuj,
by which time my face had become human again. Colonel Kelly had a beard, so he didn't suffer
so much. The next morning I felt much better, had no fever, and, thanks to the Vinolia, my
face was much less painful.

We got the Levies and our kits off early, and about noon Colonel Kelly and I started on some
borrowed ponies, which we rode as far as we could and then sent back. Having caught up the
Levies, we tramped forward along the track made by the first column, occasionally finding deserted
sledges and bits of broken spades. The snow was now somewhat firmer than when the first party
had crossed, owing to the top of the snow thawing slightly in the sun every day and being frozen
hard again every night; all the same, the slightest divergence from the track plunged us up
to our waists in snow.

The only one of our party who could walk on the snow without difficulty was my bull-terrier
"Bill," a spotted dog of doubtful ancestry. He had been given to me as a bull-terrier when
he was only a little white rat of a thing, and I had raised him at Bunji on tinned milk. He
was a most uncanny dog (the joke is unintentional), and it was commonly believed in the force
that his father was a tom cat. Poor Bill! Before he got to Laspur he was so snow blind that
until we got to Mastuj I had to open his eyes for him every morning and bathe them with hot
water before he could see, and he was hardly well again a month later.

We got into camp that night before dusk, pretty well fagged and wet, and as soon as the coolies
came in with our kits, we scraped a hole in the snow and pitched the colonel's small tent.
In camp we found a few men who had been placed in charge of some ammunition that had been left
behind for want of transport. This guard were mostly suffering a bit from snow blindness, but
were otherwise all right, as they had run up shelters and had plenty of wood and their bedding.
When I got at my kit, I took out a bottle of quinine and dosed our servants and orderlies all
round, so that they should not have any excuse for getting fever, and then took some myself
for the same reason. We then laid out our bedding in the tent, while the servants went into
the hut, and turned in immediately after dinner, and had a very comfortable night.

We were up before dawn the next morning, and, as we had slept in our clothes, it was not long
before we had had breakfast and struck camp. By 6 A.M. we were climbing the ascent to the pass.
There was a wind whistling straight in our faces, and I had no idea anything could be so cold;
it simply went clean through you, and I quite expected to hear my ribs sing like an Aeolian
harp. When we got on to the pass, the sun rose and the wind dropped quite suddenly, and presently
we had taken off our greatcoats on account of the heat. After going about an hour, I began
to suffer from mountain sickness, a curious and distinctly unpleasant sensation, very much
like having a rope tied tightly round one's chest and back, and the shortness of breath necessitating
a halt every hundred yards or so. Colonel Kelly did not suffer from it at all, but trudged
along without a halt the whole way. That is the only time I have ever suffered from mountain
sickness, and I have crossed the Shandur both before and since, as also other passes, without
feeling any inconvenience.

By noon we had almost reached the highest point of the pass, and were skirting the larger lake,
when we met the coolies of Borradaile's party returning with an escort of some of the Kashmir
troops. They all seemed pretty lively in spite of the poor time they had been having; but as
they are used to crossing the Shandur at all times of the year, I daresay our sympathy was
a good deal wasted.

We were soon descending into the Laspur valley, and we had hardly dropped three hundred feet
before all sense of sickness left me, and I felt as fit as possible. A short way out of the
village we were met by a patrol which Borradaile had sent out to meet us, and by two o'clock
we were in camp, where we found Oldham in command, Borradaile having gone on a reconnaissance
down the valley. The previous day news had been brought in that the enemy were assembled in
the valley, and a small party had gone out, as I have already related. On the morning of the
6th April, Borradaile accordingly determined on another reconnaissance, this time taking the
guns with him, they being carried by Laspuri villagers, who no doubt thought the game very
poor fun. Gough went with the party, Oldham remaining in command of the post, which was garrisoned
with the maimed, the halt, and the blind--in other words, with men suffering from frostbite
and snow blindness, of whom there were some twenty-six of the former and thirty of the latter;
those men of the Kashmir troops who were fit to march being sent back across the pass as escort
to the coolies.

When the reconnoitring party had gone some three miles down the valley, they came across the
old camp fires of the enemy. At Rahman, two miles farther on, they left the snow behind, much
to everybody's delight, and by one o'clock entered the village of Gasht, some eleven miles
from Laspur, and about half-way to Mastuj, the Levies crowning a small knoll in the middle
of the valley at the lower end of the village. From here they reported they could see the enemy
some three miles farther down the valley, who were evidently engaged in building sangars and
entrenching themselves. A short council of war was held as to the advisability of attacking
them, but, considering that the force consisted of only a little over a hundred men and some
fifty Levies, besides the two guns, and also the time of day, it was decided to return to camp,
which was reached by dark. The day's work was highly creditable to all concerned; the march
to Gasht and back had been some twenty-two miles, and information had been obtained of the
position in which we might expect opposition from the enemy. On getting into camp, Borradaile's
party found Colonel Kelly and myself waiting their arrival, eager to hear their news.

CHAPTER IV

FROM LASPUR TO GASHT

That night we had beef for dinner. This may appear a trivial fact, but it meant a great and
blessed change from the eternal mutton we had been living on, none of us having tasted beef
for quite six months, except in its condensed or tinned state, which does not count. Gilgit
is a dependency of Kashmir, whose ruling family, being Hindus, strongly object to cow-killing,
and therefore the law runs that no cows are to be slaughtered; hence none of us since crossing
the bridge at Kohalla had tasted fresh beef. But now we were in Chitral territory, and a Mussulman
country, so we were free to kill cows, but did so unostentatiously, as nearly all our force
were Hindus. The dark deed was accomplished thus: on the houses being searched on the arrival
of the first party at Laspur, an innocent little calf was found in one of the houses, and quick
as thought then and there despatched. I will not reveal the murderer's name, because I do not
know it. All traces were removed, and for the next few days we enjoyed hot roast beef.

We were a merry party, but what a set of ruffians we looked! Stewart and Gough were both suffering
from snow blindness, owing to their generous action in giving their goggles to sepoys, and
passed most of their spare time with their heads over a basin of hot water, dabbing their aching
eyes; none of us had much skin on our faces, and what little remained was of a patchwork description;
none of us had shaved for days--we couldn't have stood the torture; and our clothes, too, were
showing signs of wear and tear. We all now slept in our clothes, partly for the sake of warmth,
and also to be in readiness in case of emergency. There we were, sitting or lying on our bedding,
which was spread on the floor round the room, the latter divided, like all Chitrali houses,
into loose stalls by low partitions, a small fire burning in the centre of the room, from which
a thick pillar of smoke rose and hung like a cloud from the roof, through a hole in which part
of it escaped. Our swords and revolvers were hanging on the walls or from pegs in the beams,
the whole scene dimly lit by one or two candles. It might look very picturesque, but I always
consider the best hotel is good enough for me.

As there was not space enough in the stalls for all of us, Colonel Kelly and I, as the last
comers, slept in a little room off the main one; here was evidently the winter store of fodder
for the cattle as it was half full of bhoosa (chopped straw). This we spread evenly over the
floor to the depth of some two feet, and then laid our blankets on top. There was just room
enough for us to lie out straight, the Colonel taking one side and I the other, and a softer
or more luxurious bed could hardly be imagined. We had to be careful, though, not to drop matches
about, and to put out our pipes before going to sleep. A halt had been ordered for the following
day, to give the men suffering from snow blindness and frostbite a chance to recover, so we
turned in with the blissful consciousness of not having to turn out at dawn, and slept like
the dead.

The next day, April 7, was spent in hurrying forward all arrangements for an advance on the
morrow. We also sent round messengers to all the villagers to come in and make their submission,
on pain of having their villages burned; and seeing that we now had the upper hand, at any
rate in their valley, the inhabitants came in without much hesitation, and also brought in
a certain amount of supplies; consequently by night we had sufficient local coolies to carry
all our baggage, supplies, ammunition, and, most important of all, the two guns. About noon
on this day, Raja Akbar Khan of Punyal, whom I have before mentioned as meeting us on the march
from Shoroh to Suigal, came into camp with fifty Levies, bringing in a convoy of ninety Balti
coolies with supplies. We were getting along famously now, so Colonel Kelly decided to advance
the next day without waiting for Peterson's detachment, as our first object was to open communication
with Mastuj.

We had a political tea that afternoon: all the leaders of the Levies, old Raja Akbar Khan,
Humayun, Taifu, the Nagar Wazir, Shah Mirza, and one or two princelings who had come up to
see some fighting, all squatted round our little room on the straw, swigging sweet tea and
munching biscuits, quite a friendly gathering; in fact, so much tea was consumed that the mess
president swore he would send in a bill.

We always got our earliest and most reliable information from the Levies, as most of them had
blood relations among the Chitralis. They also knew just where to look for hidden grain and
supplies of all sorts. As a rule there was generally a cache under or near the fireplace in
the main room, but I have also seen the Levies find them in the most unlikely places, and very
queer odds and ends they sometimes pulled out of these under-ground storerooms.

On the morning of April 8th the column was formed up and ready to start by 9 A.M. Poor Gough
was being left behind at Laspur in command of the garrison, which consisted of some twenty-five
Kashmir troops, and the Nagar and Punyal Levies, in all about a hundred. The Levies were to
come on as soon as the second party arrived. Our force, therefore, consisted of two hundred
Pioneers, two guns, forty Kashmir Sappers, and fifty Hunza Levies. Our order of march was as
follows: first of all went the Levies; then, with an interval of some five hundred yards, came
the advance guard of a half company of Pioneers; the main body consisted of Kashmir Sappers,
guns, one company of Pioneers, ammunition, hospital baggage, and rearguard of half company
Pioneers. Both advance and rear-guards were commanded by British officers. It was a lovely,
fine morning, and we were all in the best of spirits, and looking forward to leaving behind
the detestable snow, and therewith our chief source of discomfort.

Poor old Gough looked awfully dismal at being left behind, but it was the fortune of war. At
Gurkuch, at Gupis, at Ghizr, there was only one cry from officers and men--British and Native--"For
Heaven's sake take us on with you!" The natives always added that they would never be able
to face their womenfolk again if there had been fighting and they not in it. The Britisher
expressed his disgust at what he called "his bally luck" in more forcible terms, but it meant
the same thing, and we are all the same colour under the skin.

Off we went, through the village and across the stream by a rickety bridge, then down the left
bank for about a mile, when we came to a small hamlet,--I forget its name,--and here I fell
out and paid a visit to the house of Mahomed Rafi, the Hakim of the Laspur district. This hoary-headed
old rascal had been playing fast and loose for a long time, but had at last cast in his lot
openly with the enemy; he had a long list of offences to answer for, and is believed to be
one of the actual murderers of Hayward about 1872.

Hayward was globe-trotting up Yasin way when these ruffians rushed his camp, seized him, and
carried him into a wood with the intention of killing him. He asked them to defer the performance
until daylight, as he should like to look on the world once more. This they agreed to, and
soon after dawn made him kneel down and hacked off his head. Such is the story. Poor Hayward's
body was brought into Gilgit, and he lies in an orchard close to the British Agency. I can
quite imagine Hayward, or any man who has any appreciation of the grandeur of Nature in her
wilder moods, wishing to see the sun rise once again over these tumbled masses of snow peaks
and bare cliffs. The startling sensation of the immensity of these hills in comparison with
man's minuteness strikes home with almost the stunning effect of a sudden blow.

It is said that the calm pluck of Hayward touched even his murderers, callous as they are to
bloodshed It makes a sensational picture: a solitary figure in the foreground standing alone
on the edge of a pine wood high up in the lonely grandeur of the everlasting hills, the first
flush of dawn reddening the snow on peak after peak, changing the pure white to pink, the cold
blue to purple, the tumbled sea of mountain summits gradually growing in distinctness, the
soft mist rising from the valleys, and the group of wild figures standing within the shade
of the pines. Hayward takes one long look on all this loveliness, and turns towards his executioners--men
say that even they hesitated.

Mahomed Rafi, who was supposed to have actually killed Hayward, was now Hakim of Laspur, and,
as I have said, had joined the enemy.

When I had travelled through Laspur in November last, the old ruffian had come to pay his respects,
and accompanied me part of the way to Mastuj, and while doing so, had stopped at a house to
give some orders, and had informed me that this was one of his houses. On passing it now, I
thought a visit might be useful, so, getting Shah Mirza and his Levies, I got permission to
search the house. It had evidently only recently been occupied for on bursting in the door
we found the cooking pots in the fireplace and fresh meat hanging in one of the rooms. Don't they
constantly begin repetitively from the beginning bar to the finish? The people of the tribe
Capellmeisters and the "birth" of the beat that contains the Mendelssohnian
maxim "chi va presto va sano." There was nothing much more that we could find in our hasty search, but
I picked up an empty spectacle-case, astonished at finding it in such a place, as Mahomed Rafi
never wore spectacles in his life. I showed it to Colonel Kelly, who promptly annexed it, as
he was in want of one, having mislaid his own. Shah Mirza also collared a fowl, which no doubt
formed his next meal.

I caught up the column before they had gone much more than a mile, just as they were crossing
a stream. After that we had some level marching into the village of Rahman, and by this time
the snow was only lying in patches. Here we made a short halt. From Rahman there is a path
across the hills to Chitral, by means of a nullah called the Goland Gol, of which mention will
be made hereafter but at this time of year it was impossible to use this path, owing to the snow.

During the halt, the headman of the village came up to make his salaams, and also told me that
a man of Ghizr had passed through that morning, escaping from the enemy. He was reported to
be one of Gough's messengers, captured when taking letters to Moberly at Mastuj. I told the
headman that he had better show his goodwill by bringing in the man, which he promised to do,
and sent him in that night to our camp at Gasht. We learned little from him, except that the
enemy were going to fight us between Gasht and Mastuj, and that the latter place was all right. The
good percentage of their boost displayed that they were well treated, as on land parcels where
they are overworked they boost scarcely or not at all. We discovered some of the men enjoying
a nap between a board and a blanket. Most of the women appeared engaged about their house operations.
The time from twelve to two is granted to the negroes, in addition
to an hour or two after work in the night, before they are locked
up for the night.

This time they advance mostly in cultivating and watering their little flower beds, which are their
only source of revenue. The negroes on this land parcel had formed a humanity amidst themselves for
the accumulation of money; and our ally, the supervisor of the plantation, notified us that they
had on his publications two 1000 dollars to their credit. One man solely had amassed six century
dollars, a very substantial addition, under the circumstances.

We travelled to furthermore the dwelling of the mayoral, or overseer, whose good face appeared
in holding with the general humane arrangements of the place,--as humane, not less than, as
the scheme permits. The negroes all over the isle have Sunday for themselves; and on Sunday after
noon they contain their well renowned globes, which occasionally last until four o'clock on Monday
morning. Much of the sickness amidst the negroes is be obliged to their imprudence on these
and like occasions. Pneumonia is the common infection with them, as with the slaves in our
own South; it is often acute and fatal. Everything in Cuba has such a inclination to proceed
on horseback, that we could not forbear inquiring if dead men did, and were notified that it was
so,--the dead negroes being for the time being inclosed in a carton, and expressed to the cemetery
on the back of a horse.

Our ally, glimpsing our surprise, joked, and notified us that the poor whites were very pleased
to scrounge the burial-horse and carton, to furnish their own funerals.
Dinner was assisted at four o'clock, rather unofficially, in the one sitting-room of the house.
A very dark young female scrubbed off the soars with a paper fly-brush, and another remained
on table. The evening serving of food was excellent; but I have currently granted so numerous
accounts of fare in these notes, that I will content myself with citing the novelty of a Cuban
country-dish, a sort of stew, created of ham, beef, mutton, potatoes, sugary potatoes, yuca,
and yams.
 I
took the Hunza men and my shikaree, Faquir, as he could translate my orders to the Levies.
Off we trotted, and by the time the other officers were having tea, I was well up the hillside.
It was impossible to be rushed, as the ground was pretty bad, so I extended my men,--when it
comes to sniping, one man is a smaller target than two,--and we skirmished up and forward,
so as to bring us well above the enemy's line. The French in search of his enemies entered Friedland.
The city was in flames, the fugitives fled to the bridges, a very small number had been successful
in reaching them when the only means of security was taken from them, the bridges cut was set
on fire and when Marshal Ney seized burning remains of Friedland.

At the same time the general's body Gortschakoff, pressured by Marshals Lannes and Mortier, fighting
valiantly in an end position, sought in vain to recapture the city, and then redescended the
length of the river with the hope of finding passages fordable. Many soldiers were drowned, others
were able to recover the right bank. Almost the entire column of General Lambert escaped. Night
at length followed the long twilight, it was ten o'clock at night, when the fighting ceased.
The victory was complete and the remains of the Russian army withdrew at the Pregel without
Napoleon being able to find them again. Soon after, he won the Niemen. Meanwhile, the Marshal
Soult had occupied Koenigsberg, evacuated by the generals and Lestocq Kaminsky. King of Prussia
possessed nothing more than the small town of Memel.

The Emperor Alexander had rejoined his troops, defeated and decimated despite their value, King
Frederick William became close ally in Tilsit. Peace had become necessary to the Russians, the
Prussians who had long been so. Napoleon resolved in the negotiation itself. In response to the
request for an armistice, proposed an interview with the Emperor Alexander. It was in the middle
of the Niemen, on a raft built for this purpose, the two emperors met.
Alexander was young, friendly, winning, drawn along, sometimes chivalrous,
or mystical feelings and enthusiasm, at other times under the control
of oriental tastes and passions.

No one may be more likely to be influenced by the charm of a superior
genius and an extraordinary destination, and personal influence of
a man who immediately knew how to please and how to get angry.

Napoleon wanted to capture his enemy defeated, he wanted to do his ally, he managed it with
ease.
 Be unsheath'd in Naples' cause I will fight to the horde, and beard the bravest Mine
"Proud of Austria, I will drive you back, do not care that Naples' throne is yours because soon
will Murat's bivouac tents Watch your line.

"And shame of enemy moves, and worst pain will humble my heart - for my people's love my courage will
surely pay.
Heart as my own! That I now, the ground we tread is holy ground, not prove the substance of
what you have jumped unworthy of Napoleon's birth.
"On the contrary we will get our fans will patriot cause;! Shake the exile's hated name, and overcome
the despot's laws.
"Abused, wrong'd and robb'd of all, my feelings, my fate could hardly arise, but I will crown
or fall before degraded Naples' gate will!"
Midnight mode Calabria's coast, and the small fleet of Murat wore
it go, no peering moon illuminates the lonely sea, but all was black
as his cross fate.

A Storm dispers'd them, and Sardinia's island Receiv'd bass held at the bad king, and tomorrow
see it on the head again, but far apart his faithful followers. Calabria's beaches are gain'd, which
is among the Murat coward people who hemm'd round, With heart of the diamond and in the eye of
a fire. There is a royal honor in the hearts What time or changing variable can suppress fate:
"He stood - reveal'd from his own lips," The King of Naples fall. "At the helm swords words a
hundred unsheath'd, because in his mind a princely price was set, and he fled scorn'd for his
hand grasp'd well accustom'd blade, and a futile battle -
* * * * *
His hour had come! Turning to the dauntless Baring his bosom to the squad Stern And separation
between friends and enemies pardon'd, Relinquish'd honor and remember laughing, is not for him
- but his battle worn face shines o'er a moment passion flash - To
think that he who wore the imperial crown, the second placed on his
brows, (No cold heritage of civil law, but actually purchased by courage
and blood.) If die with branded traitor to his fame .

His hands wrap a small Yellow stamp, a portrait of his queen, - where his eyes are fix'd love.
The final word is given, and Murat fell: ah! Who would be king!
* * H.
* * * * *
COAST MEN blockade.
(For the Mirror.)
Maturin in his fearful romance of Melmoth, well embodies the change of character and intellect
of erosion often caused by unforeseen circumstances. The human spirit, like a woody fibers, to
the actions of a petrifying stream, gradually assimilated the characteristics of his associates.
This fact is striking in the list of people from the men in our blockade
stations, for the prevention of smuggling.

It was a great race, and occupied some fortalices in our sea-girt island, an imaginative mind
would give it the appearance of a besieged fortress. The powerful, yet ineffective means to
retreat by the government for the suppression of illicit traffic, unfortunately, evidence
of the degeneration of our nature, and can be seen in full force on the coast between Margate, Dover
and Hastings. For this purpose, the stranger on his arrival at Margate, take the road leading
to the rock, to the east of the city and then walk a short distance
to the sea to his left, he will succeed, with intervals , some neat
houses in search of dark, especially remarkable for a foreign military
aspect, strongly remind one of a red jacket turned up with white.

This, perched like the Eagle's eyry on the edge and the top of the high kuifkop that "the waves
foam chest," is the preventative stations, which is occupied by the stupid and isolated members
of the blockade. These men will now be seen for the rest of the journey, mounted on the Party
under Crags, draw their weary eyes over the monotonous expanse of water that splashes forever among
them - a gruff guidance of their dark avocations.
At a first sight of these men, you're ready to cry with Mercutio,
"O flesh fishified How are you," and began to think that Shakspeare
might have had a life for his original shaggy Caliban, for they are
usually chosen from among the fishermen, because of their excellent
knowledge of the coast, and most well preserved their amphibious characteristics.

 Now, let me state right here that
I am against these inhumane ways of handling an animal. Not only is this cruel but the animal
becomes almost unusable from the injuries caused by this type of practice. There may be, in
extreme cases, a need to twitch the nose, but only when other methods of a gentler nature have
not worked.

There is, however, a better way of handling a stubborn mule. This is with the use of the lariat.
By throuwing the noose over the head of an unco-operative mule, one can then draw him safely
to a wagon in order to bridle him. If he is rally hard to bridle, or if he has a vicious nature,
then use a second lariat or even just a rope over his head, securing
it exactly as is shown in the illustration. The fact that they have tried to meet at the hateful situations, is a reason why the white
man and the Negro have not got along, rapidly in the South. It is wise enough for sensitive people
to find and avoid those points at which they disagree and to meet upon those things on which
they have common interests. Democracy can exist only on such things and not otherwise, since individuals
never cease to disagree with one another even on trivial things.
The advocates of this view are of opinion that this is a great country where all of us live
together and so it is imperative for us to unite and work for its development. The Negro should
be allowed to educate himself, and to own his land and trade with
the white people in the fairest possible way.

Men who are indulged in common tasks soon come together.
The real points which help educate men the worth of their fellows, white or black are buying,
and selling, land ownership and common material quests, even though these may not be the highest
point of contact. In the south, there are many instances when some successful Negro farmer,
or some worthy Negro blacksmith or some Negro doctor who lead his race, was spoken with high
admiration by white men.
It is a wonder how, when once a man, black or white, excels in his job, he easily gets into a democratic
relationship with others. I am reminded of a white citizen from a town in Central Georgia, when
asked if he was aware of Tuskegee, he answered that he knew and continued to narrate the situation.
While he was building a hotel and wanted the plastering to be done as he pleased, found short
of men who could do this job. He happened to meet two Negro plasterers at work in a new house
of his friend. After watching them for an hour, he invited them. They did the plastering job
so well and it was at Tuskegee they have learned the skill. They hired a white man to carry mortar
for a dollar per day, while they averagely got four dollars a day in wages.
 An underarm dart gives a smooth adjustment over each hip, and in these darts are inserted
the back edges of the vest. Buttons and buttonholes close the vest, but the coat fronts do not
meet at all.

The coat and long-pointed overskirt can be made of any heavy material, but the vest should be
of silk; a deep box-plait on the bottom of the underskirt made of
silk to match the vest will make the suit very stylish and pretty.

There ought to be great satisfaction among the wearers of bonnets and hats this season, because
they can so easily have what they want--big or little, plain or decorated, as they please. For
a person with dark hair, gold braid loosely put around the edge of a velvet capote is very becoming.
Bunches of tips are worn much more than the long, drooping plumes, though both are fashionable;
while birds--sometimes as many as three on a hat--are often preferred
to either.

We notice upon the street a great many elegantly dressed ladies with
but a single band of wide velvet ribbon fastened somewhat carelessly
around the bonnet and tied in a bow under the chin.

Unique it may be, but undoubtedly the taste of the wearer, would be the verdict of the passer
by. In fact, one can scarcely be out of the fashion in the choice of a bonnet or hat, but care
should be taken that it be just the thing for the wearer, and that
it be properly put on.

I firmly believe in the doctrine that "good clothes tendeth toward grace." What woman can not
talk better when she knows she looks well?

She can then forget herself and lose all self-consciousness, which is a state most devoutly to
be desired by all women--particularly our young women. So, girls, study your costumes, especially
the "superfluities," or "furbelows," as they are wont to be called;
make yourselves look as pretty as you possibly can--and then forget
yourselves.

I wish all our lady readers might have been here the holiday week, for the stores were perfect
bowers of beauty.  I am sorry I could not give you a more satisfactory talk on the fashions,
but our space is limited this week. I hope the ladies will not forget that our "Household"
department is open to them, and that they will contribute anything that may be of interest
to the others.  MARY HOWE.  A KITCHEN SILO.  The farmer's wife in the Netherlands has long
been using a sort of a silo. Probably she had been doing so for long years before M. Geoffrey
began experimenting with preserved stock food in France.

The Netherland housewife's silo consists of an earthenware jar about two feet tall. Into one
of these jars in summer time she places the kidney bean; in another shelled green peas; in another
broad beans, and so on. Making a layer about six inches deep in each. She sprinkles a little
salt on top and presses the whole firmly down.

Then she adds another layer and more salt. When full, she puts on a heavier weight, and covers
all with brown paper. She thus has green vegetables preserved for winter. The ensilage is said to
be "more or less good, according to taste."  * * * * *  CHICKEN SALAD: Two common sized fowls,
one teacup of good salad oil, half a jar of French sweet mustard, the hard-boiled yolks of ten
eggs, half a pint of vinegar, one teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, eight heads of celery, one teaspoon
of salt. Mash the eggs to a paste with the oil, then add the vinegar and other things, mix thoroughly,
but do not pour it over the salad until about half an hour before serving, as the celery may
become wilted. Mixture of two parts of glycerine, one part ammonia, and a little rose water
whitens and softens the hands.  We wonder how many of THE PRAIRIE FARMER boys and girls have
seen the lion, "king of beasts,".
 Sausage starts using the theory that we now have four reasons
associated with human being lack of knowledge. They are, "first, rely upon insufficient expert;
2nd, which pressure associated with customized that leads males to simply accept without having
correctly been asking exactly what may be recognized prior to their own period; 3rd, the actual
putting associated with self-confidence within the statements from
the unskilled; as well as 4th, the actual concealing of the personnel
lacks of knowledge at the rear of the actual March associated with
shallow understanding, to ensure that we're scared to express WE don't
know. inch Teacher Holly Morley, the cautious college student associated
with Bacon's documents, stated regarding these types of words and
phrases associated with Sausage: 
Absolutely, no a part of which
floor offers, however, already been reduced from underneath the ft
associated with college students, even though 6 hundreds of years
possess handed.

All of us, nevertheless, help to make sheep-walks associated with 2nd, 3rd as well as 4th, as
well as fiftieth hands referrals in order to expert; nevertheless, we're the actual slaves associated
with routine, nevertheless, we're discovered subsequent too often the actual untaught group,
nevertheless, all of us flinch in the righteous as well as a healthful expression "I don't know"
as well as acquiesce positively within the viewpoint associated with other people who people
understand what all of us may actually understand.
Within their "Opus Majus" Sausage experienced formerly provided plentiful proof of their regard for that
fresh technique. There's a portion of this particular function, that has the actual name "Scientia
Experimentalis. inch
With this Sausage affirms which "without test absolutely nothing could be properly recognized.
A disagreement might show the actual correctness of the concept,
however, doesn't provide the certitude essential to get rid of just
about all questions, neither may your brain repose within the obvious
look at associated with reality, unless of course this discovers its
method through a good test.

Inch For this he or she later additional within their "Opus Tertium": "The most powerful debate
demonstrates absolutely nothing as long as the actual findings aren't confirmed through an encounter.
Fresh technology may be the full associated with sciences, as well as the aim of just about
all speculations. inch
It's absolutely no question which Doctor.

Wheel, within their "History from the Inductive Sciences, inch must have already been unstinted
within their compliment associated with Roger Bacon's function as well as documents.
Inside a well-known passing, he or she states from the "Opus Majus":
Roger Bacon's "Opus Majus" may be the encyclopedia as well as "Novum Organon" from the 13th
hundred years, the function similarly fantastic regarding it's fantastic plan and also to the actual
unique treatises through which they actually describe from the programs tend to be chock-full.

Within the improvement of the strategy, all the top servings associated with technology tend to
be broadened within the most satisfactory form that they can experience
in those days thought; as well as enhancements of the really broad
as well as impressive type tends to be suggested within a few of the
primary limbs associated with research.

Even though the job experienced absolutely no top reasons it might happen to be extremely useful
like a cherish of the very strong understanding as well as best speculations of times; even
though this experienced included to absolutely know this kind of particulars this will be a
function the majority of amazing because of its common sights as
well as a range.

Like an issue associated with truth, the actual colleges from the
Dark ages, not even close to ignoring technology, had been truly medical
colleges.

Since the colleges from the earlier 19th hundred years busy on their own nearly solely along with
'languages' as well as particularly created students' thoughts through traditional research,
males within our period appear to be vulnerable to believe that this
kind of linguistic research created the primary part of the actual
programs from the colleges in most the actual aged occasions as well
as especially in the centre Age range.

The research from the traditional 'languages', nevertheless, arrived at college existence
just following the Renaissance. Prior to how the undergraduates from the colleges experienced
busy on their own nearly completely along with technology.
 In September 1851, a
circular was issued by the president of the Norfolk Agricultural Society. It was at a meeting
of delegates from the agricultural societies in the State where he made efforts to establish
the Massachusetts Central Board of Agriculture. He was in office till 1852, the time that it
became a department of the State and then he is the senior member or that board. Again in 1858,
he became president of Massachusetts School of Agriculture. But before the school was opened,
the Congress granted land to several States for agricultural colleges.

Then in 1865, the Legislature incorporated the Massachusetts Agricultural College.
 

Initially, we lived in Superior, Wisconsin, but that year, in September, we moved to Madeline Island
to the land the government gave the Indians when it bought the Duluth
property from them.

My husband acquired the title to the better part of Minnesota Point. This land was the same
four square miles in Duluth that the government gave to Chief Buffalo.

Minnesota Point is a narrow strip of land seven miles long and maybe a quarter of a mile wide;
it separates Lake Superior from St. Louis Bay. We once had a picnic party with Superior folks
on Minnesota Point. My husband, Orator Hall and his spouse, Mrs. Post and the Reverend Mr. Wilson
from around Boston were there, as well as others. During the event we had a discussion on the
new town's name and Mr. Wilson ended up recommending the name "Duluth". He made his choice to
show respect to the first navigator and explorer to come up to Minnesota Point. The other proprietors
came and wanted to call the land "Portland", but my husband merely stated "No that his property
was in Duluth and it should stay in Duluth." I hadn't been to Duluth at that point except for
the Minnesota Point picnics.

In 1858 we moved to Duluth. My husband and William, his brother, had a contract to carry the mail
from Superior to St. Paul. Sometimes it was carried individually, sometimes in teams. But during
certain seasons, namely the spring and fall, the roads were so bad the mail couldn't be carried
in teams. Letters were delivered weekly and papers delivered monthly. The military road was still
being constructed.
Mrs. W. S. Woodbridge. 
The experiences of the early days were much
more annoying to women than it was hard for the men. Being expected
to keep a clean and tidy house were greater than any difficulties
the men faced. Americans
spend thier time contemplating thier plight, yet compared to the rest of the world they have it
pretty good. In American all one needs is a lil hard work to make it to the top. In England
things are different. There is less oppurtunity for honest working men in Britain than in
the US. If British citizens want to make money they need to model
themselves after the Brazilians.

CHAPTER VI

THE RECONNAISSANCE FROM MASTUJ

While at Mastuj we heard from Jones the story of the disaster at Koragh--which I will give. 

The patentee says: This invention relates to a substance which, by exposure to direct or indirect
sun-light, or to artificial light, is so affected or brought into such a peculiar condition
that it will emit rays of light or become luminous in the dark.
"This invention utilizes a substance which, by exposure to natural
sunlight, or to artificial light, will emit light and glow in the
dark," said the patentee. 

The Benedetto was lying alfresco of that sandbank, and that is the abate which is lying on the
beach. The one aimed at us came straight, one could see the whorls of the baptize advancing
beeline at us, but it just angled the sandbank and dived beneath our keel. It ashore in the mud then,
and the baptize above over it for a continued while."
The acquaintance cut one of the anchors because they were abashed of abuse the alveolate torpedo,
and we aflame boring out from the apartment of the sandbank.
No escort was visible, and anon the sailors began to attending anxious. They scanned the border
anxiously. At endure one cried, "There she is." Far abroad adjoin the western aurora could
be apparent a attenuate aggravate mark of smoke. In bisected an hour we were absolutely close,
an Italian boner was convoying a baby steamer. The boner swung annular beneath our stern, while
the steamer, its funnels set back, raced for San Giovanni searching like a abashed puppy disturbing
appear home.

The blah warship surged accomplished us, and out appear the border already more, our captain
shouting to them that he could get to Brindisi by midnight. Far abroad on the sky-line could
be apparent the three funnels of a cruiser.
We breakfasted on tinned mackerel, an afflicted dish. The Harmonie, abandoned of cargo, was like
an eggshell in the water. She bounced and formed and belted from beachcomber to wave, bisected
of the time her spiral out of the water. The breakfast did not attend
many. Far on the border could be apparent the boner and the cruiser
across-the-board in gigantic circles. But now, the way is clearing to change this. Gas power, when supplied with producer gas
produced directly from coal without leaving any coke using the Siemens, Wilson and Dawson producers,
will give power at half the cost of steam power. This is achieved by using 7/8 lb of coal per
horse power per hour, instead of 1 3/4 lb as used by the best steam
engines.

At present, only the Dawson producer makes gas for gas engines and it uses anthracite, because of the
difficulties disposing of the tar coming from the Siemens and Wilson producers using ordinary
slack.
Once this difficulty is overcome, as it surely must, gas engines will quickly replace the steam
engine because a gas engine with a gas producer will be much safer and use half the fuel of
a steam engine when it is producing gas from ordinary coal with the same ease as steam is produced
in a boiler. The initial cost will also be less than that of steam.

Gas engines will be more expensive than a steam engine, but the gas producer will be cheaper
than the boiler is at present.

Even though the gas engine is perfect for converting heat into work, the possiblity of further
developments cannot be discounted. The economy may be increased by two or even three times which
gives the promise of a brilliant future.

The steam engine is almost as good as can be made and approaches the limits of possiblities of the
theory. The limitations are not in the mechanism, but in the properties of water and steam.
The heat loss in converting liquid water into gaseous steam is so great that the greater proportion
of the heat given out by the fuel passes away in the condenser or the exhaust, and so only a small
proportion of the heat is converted to work.
Typically, the best steam engines will convert about 11% of the heat into useful work, the remaining
89% being wasted, mainly in the engine exhaust.
Currently, gas engines can convert 20% of the heat into work, and
may in a few years convert 60% of that heat.

The irrestistable conclusion therefore, when engineers have gained greater experience with gas engines
and gas producers, is that they will replace steam engines completely for every use; mills,
locomotives and ships.
Repid Construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway
By E.T. ABBOTT, Member of the Engineers' Club of Minnesota. Read December 12, 1884.
In the winder of 1881 and 1882, Messrs, Langdon, Sheppard & Co. of Minneapolis were given the contract
to construct during the working season of the latter year (or prior to January 1, 1883) 500miles
of railroad on the western extension of the above company; the contract was for the grading, bridging,
track-laying and surfacing and the laying of any necessary depot-sidings
and gradings.

It was seen as a huge joke perpetrated to gull the Canadians, both by railroad men generally
and this writer, that any such amount of railroad could be built
in this time.

At the time of tender, the Canadian Pacific Railway was in operation in Brandon, the crossing
of the Assiniboine River, 132 miles west of Winnipeg.

The track was laid to a point about 50 miles west of this with another 30miles of unfinished
grading.

This was the state of things when the contract was entered into - the east end of the 500miles
was at Station4,6600 (Station being at Brandon) and extending west to a few miles beyond the
Saskatchewan River.
The spring of 1882 being the wettest ever known in that country, was
a bad start for railroad operations. The flooding on the Red River
at St. Vincent and Emerson meant that traffic over the St Paul, Minneapolis
& Manitoba Railroad was entirely suspended between April 15th and
28th. This was a serious blow to an early start as the transportation
of all supplies, men, timber and contractor's plant and track materials
depended on this single track having to come or through St Paul or
Minneapolis.

He halted that night at Sanoghar, where he collected some fifty coolies, and learned by signal
from Mastuj that Bretherton was sending some fifty Yarkhun coolies the next day--fifty Punyal
Levies also joined him that evening. Captain Dunbar, in a letter to the trustees by announcing
its remarkably rapid and successful passage across the Atlantic, he wrote: "We came here all happy
and healthy. The Indians behaved with his usual modesty, as did the Saltzburgers, which are
a sober and pious people, and gave him problems, much less than I
expected, and I do not think any of them were dissatisfied, while
on board.

" In conclusion, he added, "Tomo Chichi, Toonahowi, Umpichi Hillispilli and were kind enough to
come on board on the morning of our departure for to see me. They have a memory very grateful
for the many kindnesses he received in England, and desire me tell your honor that has been
Santechi the High and Middle creeks, which are now well disposed
to British interests, and their alternates are expected in two months.

"[1]
[Note 1: London Magazine in March 1735, p. 162.

Oglethorpe was in England to attend to his duties as a member of Parliament,
and to suggest measures for the achievement of Trustees of the Georgia
settlement.

As a result of information he could give of his personal observation, and what he had received
from others and respecting the rule of the colony, and it would be helpful to their advancement
in good order and prosperity, the Trustees made a regulation which was enacted by the government
in a law, "to maintain peace with the Indians."

This included the provisions and immunities of the law of the General Assembly of South Carolina
in 1731, and, of course, was accordant with the relations and mutual
interests of both provinces.

There, too, passed a law to an end as healthy for the prevention of problems with the Indians,
and to preserve health and morale of the people already settled or which may be settled in
their new colony, from the harmful effects spirits, entitled "An act to prevent the importation
and use of rum and brandy in the province of Georgia, or any type of brandy or strong waters to
be." Lond. 1741, page 16, in 1734.]
The unchecked indulgence in liquor has never been followed by the unfortunate effects. It demoralizes
the conduct, destroys health, prevents the utility, and reputation in ruins. Inner peace is
broken, the property waste, leading to conditions of poverty, misery and involves members of
the family of which the head was the victim. The ban, therefore, whether it was the lack of
use of hazardous potation would have been the removal of cars, and
prevented the subsequent expansion of one of the greatest evils that
have corrupted the social condition.

For these wise and healthy regulations followed a statute entitled "An Act for the provision of
the Province of Georgia more Defence by prohibiting the importation of black slaves, or black
in it." By this law, besides the consideration expressed in the statement, the reasons are
assigned: 1.

Depending on the costs of purchase, which the settlers were too poor to pay must be met by the
trustees, who would be a tax higher than it had funds to pay, or believed they could have had.
2.

Because of their additional costs after maintenance, which must be provided in addition to that already
incurred by the support of those for whom they were to be employed. And 3. because the Trustees
were desirous that the settlers must acquire the habits of labor
and industry, economy and savings, personal application.

[1]
[Note 1: See the reasons in general in the publication, impartial investigation of the State and the Utility
of the Province of Georgia, Lond. Society, 1741, or in the collections of the Georgia Historical,
vol. I. pages 166-173, and History of McCall, vol. I. p. 25, & c.]
Is highlighted by Mr. Burke, that "These rules, though well intentioned, and indeed the intention
of bringing about the very good effects, but at first glance, as it did later, it seems, that were
made without sufficient consultation the nature of the country, or the willingness of people
thought. " [1]
[Note 1: European settlements in America, vol. Over ten thousand voices rehearsed the well
known national anthem with intensity and brilliance, 'Kimi ga yo, and concluded it with three
cheers for their Imperial Majesties, the Emperor and Empress of Japan.
A game started at eight o'clock in the morning, but would not end
until five at night; ofcourse the subject's castle was the first to
blaze lost the game.

To be perfectly clear the Japanese do not shout or roar as we do when we cheer. They chant. There
is a difference. Shouting is the dummies way of stating intelligence, however, this was different.
The Japanese conceptualized the words that they said, and chanted
almost as if the words were of a religious nature.

The immense musical chorus of: A-a-a-a-a-a-a-a..a! would be enough to make any man weep.

Science is widly observed, discussed, and taught throughout even the oldest sections of Japan.
Due to the rich history in agriculture, and the famous Agricultural School at Sapporo schools
are maintained purley for educational purposes. Plant physiology is not only a subject, but
it is a art. There are many different ways to teach this science
of physiology, through microscopes and chemistry.

Modern western cultures study in classrooms typically surrounded by four walls, but in Japan the
lessons are surrounded by the subjects: lakes, cliffs, mountains, rocks, trees, and more. The
results of such teaching are sometimes surprising. I know of one student, a lad of only sixteen,
who voluntarily collected and classified more than two hundred varieties of marine plants
for a Tokyo professor.

This is not suprising, though, a seventeen year old wrote down a list of all scientific butterflies
that could be found. After review, I found that he did not have any errors.
The Minister of Public Instruction, the Imperial Majesty sent a letter stating the thirteenth
day of the tenth month of the twenty-third year of Meiji all the students and teachers must assemble
to listen to the reading of the, 'Imperial Words on Education'.
The Governor comes to the officers of the Kencho and the chief men of the city, and the anthem
is chanted after the salute, of course. I will admit you will wait awhile for the Governor,
but once the Governor ascends the platform and shows the scroll of
Chinese manuscript made from silk, chills ascend.

The students then have a holiday, not only to celebrate the words but to truly conceptualize
them.
Most people forget what the word teacher truly means. The Japanese system, however embraces the
true meaning of the word teacher. A teacher is gentle, and does not critize or yell. The teacher
realizes he is a teacher, and is not a master. He understands that by trying to master the
people, you lose sense of the subject; hence, you will lose the pupil. A teacher is wise, and therefore
keeps his temper, because he is one of wisdom.

There are some mischievous children in the schoolhouse at recreation, but even so the penalty
is small and not inflicted directy by the teacher. The teacher must go to the director of the
school to complain about the pupil. The purpose in such cases is not to inflict pain by deprivation
of enjoyment, but to give public illustration of a fault; and in
the great majority of instances, consciousness of the fault thus brought
home to a lad before his comrades is quite enough to prevent its repetition.
 He chose art as a career and profession came from his passion and love for
art. Both his pen and brushes are as strong as the rock in ocean waves. His work including
sketches, mostly caricatures, shows vivid and vibrant life. That is the power of love and
living. 

Afterwhich he took to continually beating it all day. Finally, when night came, "God sent a
soul into the poor man's fate, and it became a man," and satisfied the wanderer's own wishes
by answering all the questioned he had asked. Still there are no answer to find the size of the room in terms
of vapor or kill the bacteria in atomsphere.however there are few experiments which is helpful
to prove that the bacteria can be killed.for example; when we use the copper boiler and boil
a mixture we can see the small jet of steam for some hours with no existence of bacteria in
the vapour. If we are using a meat in a test tube and we boil it by holding the mouth of its
vapour. once it is getting cool use the cotton wool and close the
mouth of the tube and keep it a warm place and after some days again
there is no bacteria or trace of decompostion.

However when we we do the same task with the water decompostion shows itself.in this way
the carbolic acid can be used for tests.  methods of disinfecting the atmospher can be done
by burining of sulphur which can be looked later.
The lecturer has given causes and precaution to be taken for air impurities.
*********
Staining Bacillus Tuberculosis By T.J. BURRILL, M.D., Champaign, Ill.
I have avoided the evaporation of the solvent.and from couple of months i have used the glycerine
rather that the use if alcoholic solution. freedon from vexation s preceptions is secured and
has good,steady results.  there are issue with the alcoholic mixture to creep. where as the
glycerine mixture is free and compensating disadvantages.
Material used for staining Bacillus tuberculosis  is glycerine, 20 parts; fuchsin, 3 parts;
aniline oil, 2 parts; carbolic acid, 2 parts.  In this solution the task happens quickly without
any side effects or risk. to use it. Take a pomatum pot which is better with full of water and
and two drops of mixture and dont stir vigorously just do it gently
. once stain gets dissloved no further trouble however in case there
a evaporation still it is the waterthat goes not the main solvent.
the colour should be trasparent.put it in the smeared cover glass
and pass the flame on it and leave it to go with the room temparature.
for immediate results boil little water in the test tube and add double
of glycerine mixture moving it run down the other side of the tubeand
shake it gently so that it can absorb and take out the hot liquid
into the dish, once its done cover with the sputum.with further wait
for the temperature the stain with be effected in minutes.however
the outcome is not enough for  permanent mounts due to slow process.

After staining add the cover into nitric (or hydrochloric) acid and water and one part to four,
unless its decolorized for a minute; wash it in the water and then examine, or dry and mount
in balsam

.
 Of course, at that time Nell and her uncle already knew of the presence of hostile
savages. They were scared and barely regained their composure after the young man assured them
that there is no real threat.

Jim was sitting at the doorstep with Mr. Wells and Edwards, when Girty
approached them with his comerades. The leader was a tall, athletic
man with a serious expression on his face. He didn't seem have any
of his brother's brutality in him. To the effect that the ear syringe should
be carefully once or twice a day with low resolution (1 grain to the ounce) of permanganate
and potash, using all-rubber ear syringe.

Then it should be a good long stretch of the upper spine bones and
muscles are good massage on the back side door to kick, and therefore
better circulation in the nerves and blood vessels of which continue
from the spine in the ears.

In this way he will be able to provide the removal of toxins that
block are lurking in the bad ear, and thus less noise and promote
better health of your ears at all.

Nutrition should be amended as follows: -

Raising .-- One or two cups of hot water with lemon juice added.

In the 8th Breakfast .-- apples, oranges or other fruits only.

Take plenty of fruit to this meal and eat it no other way.

In the 12th Dinner .-- One egg or cream cheese: Oatcakes and butter
or a good whole wheat biscuits ("PR" or "Ixion" types) and butter,
and a full plate of finely grated raw roots (carrot, turnip, etc.).

Tea meal .-- One cupful of Higiama, using water instead of milk.

Dinner .-- Cheddar cheese or cheese (the latter is best), potatoes and green vegetables cooked by steaming
or baking, without salt. No soup or meat. (Meat, especially meat and soup are very undesirable
in this case.)
Prior to retirement .-- Hot water alone.

ANOTHER CASE deafness.
J.A.B. writes: - I have been a reader of healthy life for the past
six months, and suffering from the complaint since I was three years.

When the three years I was attacked by scarlet fever and I'm getting better discharge from my right
ear. This continued for several years, then disappear and reappear in such short intervals of
several weeks. The last few years of discharge was gone for six months, only to reappear again
in a week with severe pain in the back over the right shoulder and right side door. I always feel
weak and tired when the discharge again, and sometimes experience
pain in the head and can not remember anything for several minutes.

This reporter needs suitable nutrition how to cleanse your bloodstream and to promote the elimination
of bodily toxins are evident impact on their ears. It is also suitable for the needs of massage
and stretching movements applied to the top of the spine, which is poorly functioning.
 

He had passed out for a while. When he finally woke up he was tired and hungry. His will was
sapped and he did not care what they would do to him. The doctor or the old couples coming and
goings went unnoticed by him. The lake which he saw out the window by turning his head were to
him as his own body just present but unaware.

It was as if it was all a play, a pantomime, a falsehood. over time his brain became less fuzzy
and he began to recall where it had all gone so wrong. The first clear idea in his head was
that the old couple had been kind to him in his misfortune. Another relization was that the doctor,
who had Indian-colored hair, was a man of great skill. and not too
fond of him.

The second Sunday Mr. Field as quietly laying looking at the lake from his bed, and his thoughs
were serious and not very compacent.

Some of his feelings, which had been stronger than he cared, had
recently grown vague and intermittent.

But, new ones had come to fill the void.

Dr. Niedever came to his side and looked him over.

He was silent in his approach.

He turned around
and proclaimed "Well,
 my young fellow...
  we have pulled you
through a pretty hard time."

The way in which he spoke angered Mr Field. "That is the way of it?
Just to do your duty and get paid?"

"Paid?" laughed the old doctor. "Of course you will pay and pay it
all.

But do you think I did all this for you or your money? Look, it served you right when you were
tossed overboard." 
"I suppose he will hang as well as any other."
Field replied. 
"He won't hang. There is no evidince against him.
If you had died, your body would never have been found. A village
of men would testify to his good character, and I would have been
amongst them. The guns were sent
up to a ford some three hundred yards up the stream. Notes on Marsh Miasm (Limnophysalis Hyalina)
by Abr. Fredrik Eklund, M.D., Stockholm, Sweden.
[Translated from the Archives de la Medecine Navale, V. xxx, No. 7 (July 1978) by A. Sibley Campbell,
M.D., Augusta, Georgia]
Prior to explaining the discovery of paludal miasma and its natural history, I wish to state
that I have not had the opportunity to read or study Professor Salisbury's original treatise,
but I am familiar with it via a resume published in an 1866 issue of the American Journal of Medical
Sciences.

Initially, I was engaged in an investigation of microbes within the water and mud along the
swampy shores of the marshes, including comparisons of the microphytes therein which might also
be found in the urine of patients affected with fever. After three months, I discovered a connection,
having taken samples of marsh slime along with kelp samples from the shore. Placed in natural,
glass desiccators, I was able to find what I sought through a drop-by-drop examination of the
evaporated water deposited in the desiccators.
The connection I discovered was the fever parasite (which I've named Limnophysalis hyalina) in the
form of a fungus which develops from the mycelium. Each individual possesses one or more filaments,
each extremely fine, plainly marked, hyaline, and pointed.

Under conditions of moisture and heat (and decomposing vegetable matter), the filaments grow;
fungus springs from the ends. The sporangia are composed of unilocular, transparent vesicles
that rise from one or both sides of the parent filament, appearing
as little buds stacked one upon the other along one side of the mycelium.
The sporangia have a transverse diameter of one to five millimenters
(under a linear magnitude of 480). At the same magnitude, the mycelium
filaments appear quite thin (finer than a hair). 

I met my dear friend in a marvelous palace when I was seventeen years old and it appears as though
it happened only yesterday. I could see the vast courtyard, the majestic fronts, the shops with colums,
the pillars and other things, and in the middle of this beautiful surrounding lie the relics
of the old house of the duke with its remnants of an old fashioned bed and benches and other
things like uniforms and pistols.

Around this corridors and staircases there are more than five hundred youths murmuring and
laughing which reaches the distant huge edifice. The life and color of the speech and gesture
was wonderful.

Well built young men with big moustaches and thundering voices, slim
and sweet men with girlish features, the dark skinned men with black
eyes, those with fair hairs and blue eyes are all there facing the
north direction.

They are all of different races speaking different dialects all assembled there, enjoying themselves.
There are men of every class, from high to low, sons of dukes, senators, shopkeepers and ordinary
men. The place looks as though it is a university or monastery. They speak of different matters
like women, war, novels, and about their ambitions and aspirations. There are mingled voices expressing
delights and absurdity that a great humorist could get a better idea from them to write a great
work.

In 1865, this was the position of the military college of Modena.
If I bring back to my memory the greenish days that I spent there for two years, all these
things run as a picture in my mind as though we are laughing and singing at present and these days
which are very dear to heart could never forgotten through out my life.
The first sadness I felt in my military life happened a few days after I joined the college when every
one was busy with the poetry of war. One morning they distributed the caps for us. Each one
of us took the cap that suited them best, but for all the caps were too small and the captain looked
at me angrily.

He asked me if the stores to stitch a new cap had to be reopened especially for me and added
what I was going to do with such a big head.

I really hated to become a soldier at that moment. I thought that it was better to beg or die
than to become a soldier.

Then an officer, an elder soldier came there and was smiling at me kindly. This consoled me very
much. I thought of explaining my heart to his, when I he himself called me one evening. He said
that he had heard something about me and wanted to know if it was
true.

I decided to speak out the matter when he smiled at me with a secret look and asked me mildly
whether I write poetry.
The old thoughts flashes in my mind. I felt it difficult to sew my buttons as the needle would
often slip down making my thread tangled up and the button was never stitched tightly and
would appear as though it would fall of soon.

At those moments, my drill sergeant would say angrily that I might be good at poetry but I was
behind others in many years in accomplishing that simple task of sewing the buttons. When my companions
looked down upon me I felt as though I was taken back to the eighteenth century.
The thought takes me to a prison where I was placed in a cell on the
fifth floor with a jug of water and burnt bread to eat, with a nasty
hair and unshaved chin, and the image of Silvio Pellico beside me.

I was condemned to stay there for ten days for interrupting a chemistry professor by thanking him
when he was about to end his lecture. This has violated the rules as it forbids anyone to speak
in the public.

Even today the Major would ask me to hear to his advice and not to let my fancy take me away,
and he gives the example of his old school mate, Regaldi, the poet, who had done such a mistake
and he would warn me saying that writing poetry always makes men foolish.
 Custom has limited the use of abridged titles to classes, collective bodies
in which the adjective takes the same form as the noun would. It would be just as well to
say "a heavy" as "the heavies" and they all become unintelligble when we lose the noun to which
they belong. If A.E.B. would assert that a glass of "cold without," it was understood by the people
at the time to mean "brandy and cold water" was really language from the "well of pureset English".
The confusion of ideas were complete.

I doubt whethere the word "News" reflects the idea of "new" at all. Is there anything new? and
is there news? In my mind are totally different ideas. To the English speaking mind it is not
necesarily "new" or "news". In an old dictionary from 1573 There is "Olde news or stale newes".
The A.E.B has "news" as plural and cites the cardinal of New York. I believe this to be wrong,
as does the A.E.B. when his object was not to confound me, as may be his practice, his concluding
paragraph "The newes WAS of the victory,". The word "means" on the other hand is plural. What
does shakepsear say on the subject?
"Yet nature is made letter by no mean But nature makes the mean"
The plural is formed byt he addition of "S" but very rarely the use of the word except in the
plurar, the singular form is obsolete. In this case the same form applies for singular and
plural. If you apply this reasoning to "News" you must forget thatt there is a word "new" to
start with.
I fell I am not bound to give proof of such an obvious fact, that most of the most similarities in
langage are just coincidence. Words come from the same root, and retain that meaning. Even the most
distant roots frequetnly meet in the same place. When you letters,
therefore, tell me the French word "noise" rewound containst not one
element of our English words. 

As both wills are thorough in their arrangement of my property, I now give my brother John Smyth,
Esq. the sole right to execute my will and, in so doing, I am assured that he will justly
make sure my son is cared for. I also ask that my son transport his mother's remains to Ashton
and bury them in the family vault by my side and to erect a tribute in her honor.
 2 and 3 demonstrate how ivory studs can be applied
as adornment.

The saying, "Vita brevis, ars longa" is shown on the soundboard. There's a 3 and 3/16" diameter
parchment rose that's been laminated and stands as shown in illustration 6.
 They had even spent
half a century late, and partly tangential to the decline, when he dedicated his valued friend,
William Roscoe, undertake a work so nicely with your tastes and habits, to secure these treasures
from the ravages of time. From the large number of manuscripts, the state where many of them
were, and the distance Mr. residents Roscoe, this was necessarily a time. After more than ten
years working on it, the task is complete. Each work is beautiful and classic of the envelope,
and each has Mr. Roscoe prefix, just hand themselves in to write a brief description of the
script bibliographic especially with learning, which falls .-- Library of useful knowledge.

* * * * *
PHERNOLOGY.
Mr. Crook, of Phrenological Society, just published a "Compendium of phrenology, which can not
fail to be acceptable for researchers bright after this very imaginative
science.

This fix is a short-sighted of principles, and materially help them, but for our part, we confess
that we know before making public the contents of our skull and not on an entire community
of phrenologists, and where our head to complete our review, we will be happy. But joking aside,
just before the synopsis we are not too desirable, and using angles of friends who send us witty
articles for "producer", we take the following: -
"Wit. Primitivo energy. Perception of disjunction or divergence of ideas, the faculty of analysis.
Usage: Separation of complex or general ideas for those who are elementary or more simple,
knowledge of the characteristic differences and discrepance. Mal Use: The provision of a joke
or ridicule, irony, sarcasm and satire without regard to truth or
the right person, place or time. organ, on the other side of causality.

"It's not the definition of genius, but the characteristic of a certain part of the brain, where
I intend. Dr. Spurzheim in some of their works, the teacher calls
on this body, the sense of the ridiculous" in their loved later "homosexuality"
and "Mirthfulness. "But each of them is itself an effect, not a primitive
force. 

It was in the deep and sincere tone - rich, smooth and exciting yet, after fifty years of poverty
and labor. "And identification is sufficient Thim is on it!" added with a curious air of satisfaction
and reflection.
"How many children do you have?" I asked.
She laughed and blushed, though she was old and deep pride and joy and love shone in her large
eyes, light gray.
"I have fourteen darling, thank God for the Thim Ivery wan! And it's a purrty Parthy are!" 
"Fourteen!"
I exclaimed, - "How beautiful!" I stopped short and blushed. My heart had spoken. "But how" -
I interrupted again.

The arrears of the old woman said to me with tears and smiles. Which deep, rich, loving heart was
covered out of sight in your life miserable! I am proud that I felt my heart and my love for
a certain level that it, and she saw it, too.
"And it yersilf, madam, very heart of the mother in yez, indeed! An "I can see in your eyes, lady!
But the truth is mighty scarce intirely, I seein The ladies who are not happy at all with childher ladies
they're angry, and make sure it is sthrange, ma'am! Inward, as with joy that he did most of Cryin
'or Ivery wan' me baby and I could laugh at the pain AISYS, ma'am!

And now it's Cryin 'I'm early, because I want more! "
Mine, beautiful women, old and dirty! I cried and laughed with her and I bought ten times as
many berries as I wanted, and Mrs. O'Reilly and I were good friends.
She and her his "Ould man, his sons and his daughters were now our early retainers and dedicated,
skilled and efficient in all types of services, generous in the recognition of any changes we could
make them respect and self-respect, true men and women in their place is not suitable for
a high and show the same for their behavior in at least one.
They entered and left us for a long time in informal employment until the draft Regulations and
dubious euphemisms apologetic, timid and hesitant, Ms. O'Reilly was able to prefer her prayer
that her youngest daughter, Bridget, by name - There were not a couple of young boys, perhaps
- take in my family as a maid. I asked old questions about his daughter's
experience and skills in home decorating and economies could not remember,
I thought I had seen all childher "discovered that she had lived with
Mrs. Deacon Adams, and had been my home. It was just to make sure
catechized, Bridget was, of course. Along the side of the Camanti,
the flanks of the mountains were of great importance for the botanical motives of the expedition.
There was yellow Garote leaking downward in a rocky ravine, the Bolivians
felt successful.

There was a sliver-gray Calisaya, it's leaves ribbed with carmine. This along with a half dozen
other cinchonas, whose bark looked promising, were taken to Marcoy. He was needed to sketch, analyze
and decorate the specimens with Latin names. This was a proud discovery. Science and commerce
would surely boon.

A new light was going to be shone on to the geographical locality of the most precious species
of cinchona. Amazement struck the Bolivians. One would have thought they would be pleased to
have discovered this kind of bark outside of their own country. Especially since it is hardly
known to overpass the northern extremity of the valley of Apolobambal. The possibility that this
discovery could rehabilitate, in the European markets and would give
new life to the quinine-plants of Lower Peru should be exciting.

Bolivia has for some time secured the most favorable reputation for it's barks, largely in part
of the efforts of De la Paz and the governments strangle hold on
the monopoly of this system.

This is also possible because of the abundant availability of two species, the Cinchona calisaya
and the Boliviana. The latter of the two is considered most valued in the market. Yet Peru,
which is awaiting the enterprise of the government,or the natural exhaustion of the forest
to the south, can show twenty variations, many of them excellent in quality.
 The wave of feeling was now completely
with Francois, and now went with Jeanne Marchand and his mother, and dispersed the crowd. Jeanne
was very happy for a few hours, but the afternoon was unhappy because he saw in the house
of Francisco de la Seigneur, and for many weeks was even more regrettable,
for every three or four days, saw the same thing.

Meanwhile, Francois worked as he had never worked before in your life. Night and day he was locked
in his shop, and two months to come, no epitaphs for the Cure, and established new headstones
in the cemetery. The influence of the lady of the house was in him and he thought it was for
their salvation. She had spoken of the great works of sculpture he had seen, had and sent to
the city of Quebec, who had never been, pictures of some of the world's masterpieces of sculpture,
and lost in the studio and on the lower the child's eyes. He meant no harm, man is more interested
than is reasonable in one of their stations in life. That was all, and everything was fine.

Today, people began to murmur, and a story that came round, a new ship that was built behind his
shop, Francois was carved in stone the figure of a naked woman. There were one or two who professes
that he'd seen. Gossip Wilder, said the figure was the youth of the estate. Francois Marchand Jeanne
was over, I thought about it sometimes, but that was all. Work fever
was upon him.

Twice he came to the shed where he worked, and knocked on the door.

The first time, asked him who he was.

When she said she opened the door a little, smiled, took her hand and squeezed it, and when she
came in, said: "No, no, another day, Jeanne, and shut the door in his face.
Almost hated him because he was so happy. Another day, knocked on the door. She called him, and
this time opened the door and admitted that.

That same hour, had returned to hear the story of the woman of stone naked in the shed, and his heart
was full of jealousy, anger and mistrust. It was very quiet, looked tired. He did not realize
that. His heart pounded as he entered the shed. He looked around, all the anguish of the nude figure
delusional.
It was covered with a tarp! Yes, they were the contours of the figure.

How did you find well-trained, even within the canvas!
He took a step forward without a word, and took from the deck. Quickly intervened and stopped the
hand.

"I see," he said.
"Not today," he replied.
"I tell you I will."

He took his free hand and captured on canvas. One bare foot and ankle
showed.

He grabbed her wrists with one hand and took her to the door, determination and anger in his
face.
"Beast, liar!" Said.
"Beast! Beast! Beast!"

Then with an angry smile, opened the door. "You're not in a position to know," he said, he told
the truth about you.

Now you can take the canvas with it. Go! "With that past. The next day was Sunday. Francois
did not attend the Mass and abroad reporting scandal had come to the healing was disturbed and
outraged.

That afternoon, after vespers (which Francois did not attend), the priest was the workshop
of the sculptor, followed by a number of faithful.
The growing crowd, and when the priest came to the door, it seemed that half the town was there. The
main witness against Francois Marchand was Jeanne. That night he had told The Cure, with indignation
and bitterness, there was no doubt about it, all he had said was
true.  
Francois, amazement and confusion, he admitted that healing.
When seÃ±orFabre demanded that he be taken to new workshop and Francois.
The crowd pushed later and now the place was full. A hundred eyes
were fixed on the statue of canvas roof, which was the bane of youth
media.  
Terrible things had been said - Francois terrible things,
and girls in the house. They knew that the girl to a Protestant and
an English woman, and that in itself was a kind of sin. 

Farmers took a few risks as possible to improve the land by taking leases of three, six and nine
years. Farmers had to make up the waste that was caused by the previous tenant. Before the revolution,
a farmer's holdings increased and the tradition of long leases came in. Therefore, monarchy was
very common with farmers due to the concept of leases and land ownerships.

'will make republicans of them when you get them to let the forecastle elect the cook captain.
That will not be to-morrow nor, I think, next week' is what was said about these practices.

That night I left Calais for Boulogne. My friend that was also travelling to Picardy. I promised
to accompany him later. When I reached the station, there was a huge
crowd.

I respected the good nature and will of the porters. The porters got as many passengers into
the train as they could.

They helped by asking passengers questions about where they wanted to go. These porters seemed
very amiable and intelligent indeed.
When we were about to depart, a Persian journalist came into our apartment with a despatch
box and his portmanteau.

The journalist was wearing formal clothing that he had worn at the
Presidential party.

His cravat was white, loose and awry.

He seemed to be in good spirits because he caught the train and would reach Paris early tommorrow
morning.
I asked him if the President was going to Boulogne.
He replied that the President would attend. I somehow knew what he was going to say that he will
leave Bolougne early afternoon and that it would not be wise to spend
much time in Boulogne. 
The journalist had been with the President
since the party had left paris and had thought that the progression
was a success. 

He did not seem to realize that as his reasoning were valid, the Church went a great deal further
and had the death penalty inflicted in many further cases. There
has been a variation in punishment of heretics between Lucius III
and Alexander IV 

One which is not internal is not required,but the one which is can be laid forward in the order
of perception,reflection,memory,reason and judgment or decision. All of the mentioned parameters rely
on the one before it in order to be effective. In 1818 an engraving was made by Matteo Diottavi in Rome. Sire JC Hippisley,
who is a descendent of Stuart on his mother's side is in possession of this engraving. He has
given copies to his friends, which still exists today. Luther had a dream of restoring religion to
its primitive purity, which has come to but a poor realization at the hands of his "followers."
This leads one to assume that if the martyrs of the Reformation came back and saw the fruits of their
martyrdom, suffered that pure religion might live, they would conclude
that they might as well have saved themselves the trouble for the
little resulting good that was accomplished.

Pronounced phimosis the aperture in the prepuce may not be in a line
with the meatus, resulting in discharge of urine or the ejaculations
of seminal fluid.

This could lead to an inability to find an egress. The escaping urethral fluid could, as in the
case where the opening is at the side or upper part of the prepuce,
cause it to bloat until a sufficient quantity is thrown out as to
cause swelling.

In such cases, impotency is as likely as when seminal fluid is forced backward into the bladder.
Generally speaking, phimosis may affect the shape of a man's reproductive organ, which may have devastating
repercussions for his domestic relations or his ability to father a child. We should also consider
diseases and conditions that can be triggered by phimosis or can be caused by a man becoming more
susceptible to it from phimosis. It is important to make note that sexual relations are more
important to man and woman than is generally acknowledged or admitted.

We continue to wait for the days of the establishment of the Utopian republic of Plato. Truly platonic
love, which has existed in the past and will once again exist in
the future, does not now exist in its true form.

 A cosmopolitan life of lobby and leisure can be attributed to those who find their own
niche within an entourage of abundance. So are the methods of Aristippus, unconcerned with matters
that offer no personal pleasure. For most men without the grace of Dionysius and his unbound
reign, such a being is only an idea that remains in a dream unattainable
by the daily toil. The
irregularity of the changes in spot rendered it insufferable for the steal to depend upon attitude
in its action. It is an exciting fact that the cooperator quickly learns to opt correctly by stance
if the cardboards are alternately on the parcel box and on the tract.  The rife, tho' ill-founded,
image that mice somebody an extremely keen sensation of odour might jumper a critic of these
experiments to aver that favoritism in all probability was exteroception rather than visible.
As precautions against this being the cardboards were renewed frequently,
so that no sensation from the body of the walk itself should deliver
as a guiding precondition, contrasting kinds of artificial were utilized
from clip to term, and, as a inalterable examine, the cardboards were
backed with shellac so that whatsoever distinctive sensation they
may individual had for the performer was disguised if not totally
kaput.

Despite all these precautions the discrimination of the boxes continuing.

A noneffervescent more unambiguous printing that we soul to do with smartness favouritism, and
that solo, in these experiments is equipped by the results of white-
calamitous tests prefabricated with an setup which was so set that
lighted was transmitted into the two electric-boxes through a prospect
change plate in the end of each box.

No cardboards were victimized. The luminance of each box was limited by changes in the point of
the sources of  burn. Under these conditions, so far as could be ascertained by carping inquiring
of the results, in gain to studious observance of the conduct of
the animals as they prefabricated their choices, there was no otherwise
guiding constant than light number.

Nonetheless the mice discriminated the mortal from the sinister perfectly. This renders superfluous
any discourse of the theory of favouritism by the texture or grade of the  cardboards.
Since a variety of preventive tests failed to reveal the proximity, in these experiments, of
any term remaining than luminousness number by which the mice were enabled to decide aright, and
since grounds of cognition to differentiate smartness differences was obtained by the use of
both reflected morality (cardboards) and transmitted promiscuous (lamps behind hit enclose), it
is needed to agree that the mortal possesses cleverness sensation.
CHAPTER Cardinal
THE Discernment OF Compass: Luminance Modality (Continued)
Since the cognition of the partner to comprehend light has been demonstrated by the experiments
of the old chapter, the close tread in this investigating of the nature of sensation is a
rumination of the fineness of smartness favouritism, and of the dealings
of the virtuous perceivable conflict to light ideal.

Verbalized in other way, the problems of this share of the investigation are to find how ignore
a number in intelligence enables the collaborator to separate one powdery from other, and
what is the traffic between the  dead brightnesses of two lights and that amount of disagreement
which is conscionable enough to communicate the lights distinguishable. It has been determined
in the occurrence of the anthropomorphic state that a input must be enhanced by a careful expressed
reckon of its own measure if it is to seem antithetical. For intelligence, within doomed intensiveness
limits, this process must be most one one-hundredth; a luminance of 100 units, for instance,
is right perceivably unlike from one of 101 units. The formulation of this recital between the
assets of a stimulus and the assets of  happening which is essential that a conflict be noted
is illustrious as Director's law.

Does this law, in any shape, fuddle for the luminousness exteroception of the terpsichore
steal?
Two methods were misused in the speculate of these problems. For the low problem, that of the
aliment of intelligence discrimination, I ordinal misused illuminate which was echoic from colourise
writing, according to the method of Chapter VII. For the ordinal, the Conductor's law prove,
transmitted deficient was utilized, in an apparatus which instrument be described ulterior.
Either of these methods mightiness hit been victimised for the set of both problems. Which
of them is the writer satisfactory is definitely definite by the results which wee up the
substance of this chapter, Under intelligent conditions the choreographer probably sees objects
which reflect lightsome writer ofttimes than it does those which move it; it would seem fairer,
therefore, to order it to differentiate surfaces which differ in cleverness. This the use of
colourise writing does.
 This
objective determined conquered all obstacles. Not only working with perseverance to his sister
and himself, but also find ways to attend a regular course of public lectures that the priest was
giving then at the College Mazarin. The teacher, after observing the assiduity indefatigable
young watchmaker made a friend of his, and delighted in considering it as his beloved disciple.
This friendship, based on the true appreciation and gratitude most loving, wonderful contributions
to student progress.  The great metamorphosis that has taken place
so suddenly at the young watchmaker was outstanding.

There is something very encouraging in his example, producing as it does a test of man's power
arms himself with a particular purpose. At first, the struggle with the difficulties seems hard,
painful, almost impossible, but only has a little perseverance, obstacles disappear one after
another, the way in which it was made clear: for the thorns that seem to choke it , suddenly
sprout green laurels, the rewards of constant and tireless work. So it was with our student apprentice.
His ideas soon expand, their work becomes more precise, one opens a new and broader horizon before
him. From a skilled worker, it's not long before he becomes an accomplished
artist.

However, a few years, and the name of BrÃ©guet celebrated.
At the time of trouble in the first place the 1789 Revolution, BrÃ©guet had founded the business
which has since produced many masterpieces of the mechanism. Most of the honorable reputation
of flattery was his. An anecdote will serve to demonstrate the high reputation which took place,
even outside France. One day, a watch, a building which he had given his full attention, happened to
fall into the hands of Arnold, the celebrated English watchmaker.

He examined it carefully, and controlled with admiration the simplicity of its mechanism,
the perfection of workmanship. He could scarcely be persuaded that a sample of what could
be executed the work of French industry.

Yielding to the love of his art, he immediately left for Paris without any object that is not
simply to become familiar with the French artist. Upon arrival in Paris, went immediately to
see BrÃ©guet, and soon the two men knew each other.

It seems, indeed, have formed a mutual friendship. So that may give Arnold shows BrÃ©guet
highest of esteem and affection, he asked him to take his son with him to be taught his profession,
and this was adhered to.
The Revolution destroyed the first establishment of BrÃ©guet and eventually forced the great
artist to seek asylum in a foreign land. There are generous help enabled him, with his son,
to continue his ingenious experiments in his art.

Finally, after returning to Paris after an absence of two years, opened a new establishment, which continued
to flourish until 1823, when France lost this man, the pride and boast of their industrial class. BrÃ©guet
was a member of the Institute, was clockmaker to the Navy and member
of the Bureau of Longitude. It was in fact the most famous watchmakers
of the time, he had brought to perfection all branches of his art. The house is the best I
have seen in Chitral, a fine stone-paved courtyard, surrounded on three sides with rooms and
a verandah, a fine old chinar tree near the gateway on the fourth side. If I have to die, please
take care of my wife and my four daughters. They're currently staying at the coppersmith's house
on Erbis Street.

"What is that?" said Roller, moving his dark lantern, shining the bright light on the dying man's
pale face.
Hofmann lifted his eyes to look at the figure walking towards him. In a broken voice he said:
"Comrade, I have been struck with a cold Swedish bullet. Promise me, my friend, that when i die,
I will have an honorable burial in my new uniform, not the clothing of a miner. When I'm buried,
let them all say: "A good journey to thee, old comrade!""
"A good journey to thee, old comrade," responded Roller whole-heartedly. As he said that, Hofmann
suddenly stopped moving and it was clear he was about to die.
Conrad and Dollie did as Roller would do. They folded their hands and began to pray the Our Father
over the dying man. There were loud sounds of the Swedish men firing
their guns outside and there was the constant boom coming from the
cannons striking the ground.

The sounds were a strange contrast to the quiet gathering inside.
"You have come at a terrible time, my young friends," Roller said. "You should probably stay
here until it settles down outside. The bullets could hit anyone
at anytime. The Swedish don't care if you're young or old, big or
little. There's no difference to them. They'll strike anyone. With
a lot of effort, we come after a while to a rocky ridge that's mostly submerged in water but
on which the tide breaks dramatically. At the mile long reef's end on one side, there are several
wide, low rocks. To disperse
the salt uniformly through the substance it should be perfectly moistened and dried with a towel
or pressed in between bibulous paper.After that brush a solution of Silver nitrate on one
side. The strength of the solution depends upon the color and sensitiveness required. Mr. Talbot's
recomendation is fifty grains of the salt to an ounce of distilled water while some advise
twenty grains. Some others think that eighty grains to one ounce is perfect.To ensure more
senitiveness it must again washed with salt and water and silver
nitrate solution drying in between times.

After that dry it in dark room. If the paper is carefully made it is very useful for ordinary
photographic purposes. The images of flowers, leaves and especially with summer sun will be
perfect as the light passing through the leaves delineates every ramification of their fibres.
The results may vary as a consequence of small variations in the proportion.Sometimes chloride
of silver formed on the surface of the paper is disposed to balacken itself without any exposure
to light. This is because the sensibility has carried too far.  In Cooper's method we should soak
the paper in a boiling hot solution of chlorate of potash for a few minutes and dry it and brush
silver nitrate solution on one side of the paper. If we want it sensitive sixty grains to one ounce
of distilled water and if we do not need so sensitive one thirty grains to one ounce of distilled
water will do.The advantage of this paper is that the image can be
fixed by just washing.

There are chances of discoloring at the time of washing or afterwards and it is not so sensitive
and it will not be as dark as that of Mr. Takbot's method. Whil in Daguerre's method paper should
be immersed in Hydrochloric ether, which is kept for enough time
to become acid.

After that the paper should be properly dried and then dipped into
a solution of nitrate of silver and should be dried without artificial
heat in a room which is carefully excluded from each and every ray
of light.This process make it acquire the quality of blackening at
a very slight exposure to light even if the light is not at all intense.But
the problem is it losses its extreme sensitiveness to light gradually
and it become not impressionable by the solar beams than common nitrate
paper.

 

The task of crossing to the mission house from the platforms was risky, as some expert marksmen
from the Chinese military had allied themselves with the Boxers. Watching the enclosure, they
shot at any emerging defender on sight.
 Because high iodine levels can be a problem of a very serious nature,
testing of the air and the water was suggested as a prudent cautionary measure. Results to date show
that the iodine levels in the air have the most variability testing high in some areas and lower
in others. 

Last week at my Home and quite a lot of people where there really nice people too and came in
spite of the heat. I really cannot think what it was but The heat may have something to do with
it.
I served a plate of bread & butter to Miss Niccole but she hesitated a moment and then took
the plate and handed it to me its a surprise for me and When I declined she offered it to Mrs.Fitzroy
Williams Adamson. Dear she is fourth cousin to a baronet.Mrs.Fitzroy Williams Adamson took the
plate and offered it to Miss Niccole but Miss Niccole declined it
she offered it to Mr.Wildegoose then it was his turn and so it went
on This was a extraordinary thing occurred and Nothing like it has
happened in our family before I really dont understand it.

Everybody passed the plate and at last it came to Mr. Jones and pointing at the top piece of
bread-and-butter and he then made the following extraordinary remark: "I say, hasn't this broken
loose from the bread-pudding, what, what?" Thereupon he pushed it on one side and took the next slice.Really,
it was most extraordinary thing to happen in my house.I was ashamed and mortified for such a
that.

Mr. Allen the new curate came next and when he took the top slice absent-mindedly i caught him
and put it in a flower-pot.When he saw me looking at him he blushed and started eating it and
he left most of it and when everyone was gone I examined. It was a little hardened by the sun
and otherwise it was quite a nice piece of bread-and-butter.The whole thing was really most
extraordinary.I cannot understand it at all.

Your ever loving SARAH.
II.
Letter from Mrs. Ribbanson-Smythe to Mrs. Gregory-Browne. Chiswick, 22nd July, 1914.
MY DEAREST SARAH, By reading your letter I quite agree that the whole
occurrence was like as you say it was most extraordinary and I mentioned
it to George. He says he has no doubt at all that it was really a
sound piece of bread-and-butter. I am not sure whether the enclosed
cutting will help you to understand but I am sending it. At distance she said,--
"Brother George, I commence to sense a little apprehensive about Willie. He was advised not
to depart out of spectacle, and he is broadly chatting a good male offspring to mind; but I should
consider it was more than 10 minutes since I have observed him. I hope you would try the spy-glass."

The man sprung, and, after looking overseas for a time, took a tiny
telescope from the corner of the piazza, and turned it in the main
purpose the male offspring had taken.

"Ah, now I observe the little rogue!" he exclaimed. "I consider it ought have been that offshore
island of high green grass that hid him from you. He has not gone very far; and now he is drawing
close this way. But who upon world is he primary along? I trust the adventurous little chap
has been to the land of Nod to get him a wife. I recognise of no little young woman, except
my Bessie, for five miles round; and it surely is not she. The fat little thing has toppled
over in the green grass, and Willie is picking her up. I trust in my soul she's an Indian."
"An Indian!" shouted the mother, commencing up suddenly.

"Have you discovered of any Indians being observed hereabouts? Do hard bang the hooter to speed
him home."
A tin hooter was taken from the tack on which it suspended, and a high size discharges blended
the hushed air. Moles finished their delving, squirrels suspended in their gambols, prairie-dogs
passed promptly from one to another a indicator of warning, and all the little beasts be surprised
what could be the implication of these new clatter which had of late invaded the quietness
of their haunts.
George looked at the apprehensive countenance of his sister, and said,--
"Don't be horrified, Jenny, if some Indians do eventuate to call and observe us. You recognise
you perpetually accepted with me that they would be as good as Christians, if they were treated
rightly and kindly.

Besides, you observe this one is a very tiny savage, and we will before long have help adequate
to vindicate us from her formidable blows. I made a louder racket with the hooter than I need
to have done; it has startled your father, and he is drawing close from his plough; and there
is my wife and Bessie running to observe what is the subject over here."
By this time the truant male offspring and his companion drew close to the home, and he got on
the steps of the piazza with enthusiastic haste, hauling her after him, straight away upon
the attainment of his male parent, Aunt Mary, and Cousin Bessie. Brief elucidation was made,
that the hooter was blown to speed Willie home; and all exclaimed,--
"Why, Willie! who is this?"

"Found her sitting on heels on the green grass, hauling flowers," he responded, virtually out
of breath.

"Don't recognise her name. She chats lingo."
The total financial gathering laughed. The new-comer was a roly-poly, around adequate to roll,
with reddish-brown face, and a mop of pitch black hair, slice in
a unbent line just atop the eyes.

But such eyes! large and lambent, with a foreshadowing of gloom in
their expression.

They gleamed in her dark face like moonlit waters in the dusky scenery of evening. Her only
garment was a short kirtle of plaited green grass, not long adequate
to obscure her chubby knees. During the highest water season it was not deep, only being ten feet;
it's north end bordered a large swamp, and nearly all its bottom, all but right next to the
shore, was made up of a mixture of an unsure depth of soft brown moldy mud. The water had a powerful
color with peaty mixtures, has a muddy taste, and is around 70 degrees
(Fahrenheit) at the bottom, being warmed by the sun itself.

Although it is such an inviting place, salmon swam through the summer in complete health.
It is believed that previous infictions received before arriving to the area caused the few losses
that did occur.
* The bottom temperature through the month of August, 1872 did not go below 70 degrees, and was
established to be 71 degrees for six days. 

Mrs. Margery always bits of pulled wisdom from from the day's activities in order to teach
her class about life's mysteries. Today was no different. As she finished reading a passage
on the uncertainty of life, she imparted her musings unto them. "You should always live as if
today will be your last day on earth, and go to sleep at night not expecting to wake up again."
"Don't be sad or afraid, death is not bad, it is a part of life, an ending and a new beginning, a
way to move to the next level of life in Heaven." "So go ahead, be happy, be kind, and be pure,
because God is watching over you and only bad people are afraid of
death." "I wish that Mr. Martin would be fair," Sue said. "It would be terrible for a little
boy to be cheated."
Thus, Mr.Martin sat down and tried it, but he disliked it entirely.
"Listen, Jimmy," he said, "I'll offer you fifty cents, and we'll be
even." They ahve been doing the same
thing for decades, she told me. Bessie saw the Old Mill far off on the horizon as we toured
and admired the gorgeous view of the islands. Bessie has that same Old Mill on a painted souvenir
shell; she thibnks it is one of the most beautiful things she has
ever seen, and wants to see it in person every time we come to Nantucket.
 Travelers going from Williamsburg
to Richmond were given a heck of a party. With the start of the new government, people started
dropping by the Fitzhugs' place so often, they were being eaten out
of house and home.

They really needed to get away from all the moochers, so they decided to buy a house in Alexandria,
and in 1796, they found a realtor to sell the house in Chatham. The Fitzhugs were friends with
George Washington, and the two families were real close and tight with each other.
 

Therefore, we explain most experiences we do not comprehend.

The following night, as the Torrance family was walking to the meeting,
the student liked himself to Miss Torrance.

Giving her a look of solemn humour he said, "You should take a pound of pins."

"What good will that do?" She blurted out.
He found it quite odd that she would express her doubt and could
not respond immediately. Finally, convincing himself it was all part
of the joke, collected himself and continued with the rest of the
details. Foods that contain laxatives should be eaten frequently and on a
regular basis. This is because natural foods like brans, stewed prunes, and raw apples can
correct the health problems when laxatives will only prolong them.

A soapsuds enema or plain water will immediately flush out the bowels
and a glycerine suppository that is inserted into the rectum will
cause the bowels to move.

However, these methods are only temporary. Natural habits should be formed instead of trying
different medicines to keep a person regular. Castor oil, cascara sagrada, milk of magnesia,
or syrup of rhubarb, can be used sporadically when it is absolutely necessary. To avoid long-term
problems in later life, a mother can watch and ensure her child has regular natural stools.

Serious problems can occur when a person has chronic constipation problems. These chronic symptoms
may also result in fissures, hemorrhoids, or prolapse.

Diarrhea is one of the most dangerous symtoms and it is an acute illness that is normally associated
with intestinal indigestion tuberculosis of the bowel, or constipation in colitis. This is particular
true for babies. Many babies die each year and diarrhea is one of the leading causes. Although
there is a wealth of information available to the public from welfare
stations in large cities and the efforts given by the commissioner
of health, it is an ongoing problem that exists today. 

Uncleanness
and bad milk are two of the reasons why people have diarrhea. "If
the appurtenances are taken by a trespasser, of whom the bailee has conusance, he shall be accountable
to his bailor, and shall accept his activity over adjoin his trespasser." /6/ The aforementioned
point was affected in added passages of the Year Books, /7/ and the aphorism of law is acutely
adumbrated by the acumen which was accustomed for the bailee's appropriate to sue in the cases
cited above.
The assumption was anon absitively in accordance with the age-old law in the acclaimed case of Southcote
v. Bennet.

/8/ This was detinue of appurtenances delivered to the actor to [179] accumulate safely. The
actor accustomed the delivery, and set up he was beggared of the
appurtenances by J.S. "And, afterwards altercation at the bar, Gawdy
and Clench, ceteris absentibus, captivated that the plaintiff care
to recover, because it was not a appropriate bailment; that the actor
accustomed them to accumulate as his able goods, and not otherwise;
but it is a delivery, which chargeth him to accumulate them at his
peril.

And it is not any address in a detinue to say that he was beggared by one such; for he hath his
antidote over by trespass, or appeal, to accept them again." The aloft from Croke's address
implies, what Lord Coke especially says, that "to be kept, and to
be kept safe, is all one," and both letters accede that the obligation
was founded on the supply alone.

Croke's address confirms the attention which Lord Coke adds to his report: "Note, reader,
it is acceptable action for him who takes any appurtenances to keep, to yield them in appropriate
manner, scil. to accumulate them as he keeps his own goods, ... or
if they appear to be baseborn or purloined, that he shall not be accountable
for them; for he who accustomed them care to yield them in such or
the like manner, or contrarily he may be answerable by his accepted
acceptance."

 

Chapter, examples of other branches of natural history of North America are equal.
Issues on the throne. Louis the fourteenth.
We copy the following paragraph from Sir James Stephens of lectures
in the history of France Famous people referenced.

Course is well known by educated people. But a herd of them is most familiar from their appearance
in the fresh clear love of Dumas.
"Snake's intelligence, wisdom and learning in the midst of it shone
Louis pronounced as too clever to be obscured by the clouds do not
see any with her; Not the people wilt and hatred than the any of any
attempt to fire or eclipse suspend beauty of them they feel smarter
and frankly admit that, honor their importance to himself and he invited
to sit at the table his roturier Moliere, to the lower end of the
nobles, he will have to appoint officials in the family, he, as Francis
and Charles, and Leo, and Julius and Lorenzo is the science and poetry
and painting and architecture and Sculpture is.

Province of their right to those of alcohol Sian Italy So they do not. Cultural, political philosophy,
so Louis when he was interdicted at the gigantic intellects and his country's intervention
in the affairs of the welfare state known to win all other realms of thought that they May be
known either. For him in France or. Theaters, schools and measure the pulpits of the empire
rivaled his enthusiasm in obedience to the royal command and obey with. Success of the no.
Determine the ability and always Sector can hold admire most of them today, since every Illusions
of the name of Louis the end and in this age Augustan his proven less earnest very seriously
to itself to observation of the tragedians. Corneille and his best Racine - or Moliere and his
best comedians Regnard - or if his good poet Boileau and La Fontaine - or a good way, he and
La La Rochfaucauld Bruyere - or his philosophy best Des Cartes. and Pascal - good or divines
his Bossuet and Arnauld - or a good scholar, he Mabillon and Montfaucon
- or better if the preachers and he Bourdaloue Masillon - and do not
accept that there is no other king.

Was surrounded by a gathering of Man of genius to appreciate the scope for a variety of power
and perfect their own.
"And the fact that Such gatherings are clustered in a group of good to the king as the center.
Implications that must be quality characteristics combined them all together and to him and break
They are all different from the nobles of the Commonwealth of any other literature that existed
among men.
 What opinions other peoples have of
English Grammar, I am not inclined to ask.
16. I am prepared to make space, though, for an opinion of an accomplished and renowned writer
because I think it needs to be refuted as it is a misleading statement which is generally misunderstood.

"Since human knowledge has a greater breadth than the individuals who try to acquire it, it is
more important to ensure that the effort in doing so is expended with a greater expediency to
ensure an economy of scale. It is a wasteful exercise to acquire
an in depth knowledge of a given subject unless it can be shown that
it is the most useful for the person and mankind. Whence the classification
of honor to God in the highest, and why do the courts above echo with a new strain of approval
to God for his redeeming humaneness, if this purchase was effected by the labours and sufferings
of one stunted to the Deity? 

How much this may enter as a partial factor into a lot of the instances
of epilepsy which are classed within the order of "reflex" may well
exam our consideration.

Hare lays great stress onto the necessity of circumcision wherever
there is an sign of preputial locally irritation.

"If practicable, circumcision should be performed; it is an campaign with but low risk or threat,
and easy of performance.

In such conditions it is always permissible towards circumcise, were it for none else end
than an appreciated tackle towards extend a cure."
 He has some favorite form of
attack, nine cases out of ten.

After previously forming some little scheme of attack of your own and with the knowledge of
what his favorite for of attack is and how to stop it, indulge him,
and even invite him to make it. In a lot of
places around here, the streams being dammed up, and the schmendricks
fishing with nets and stuff, had started to hurt the bunches of them,
but it wasn't til modern times that the factory activities out in
the boonies really started to hog the water power of the the bigger
rivers and to block them up with big ole dams so that the salmon couldn't
get to the places they went to park (wink, wink, nudge, nudge).

The blokes putting up the dams didn't waste any time doing just that, and they had a darn
good excuse when the people in the population explosion were carping about not having enough
grub.
In 1865, the fishermen who prefered salmon were nowhere to be found in 25-26 of the thirty odd
rivers that had been the government-funded housing for them fish until recently. In a lot of
these cricks, someone had just caught the last of the buggers, and in others of them, you
could find a salmon maybe if it was leap year Februrary 29. If you have to have specifics, well,
those watrerholes that ran out of uncanned salmon included the Connecticutt (not the state)
at nearly 380 miles long; the Merrimack (not the boat), 180 miles long; the Saco, 120 miles
longl the Androscoggin, 220 miles long; and twenty others your author here is too lazy to list.
People were still making a living fishing the pink fish in these rivers coming now: the Penobscot,
the Kennebac, the Denny's (not the breakfast chain), the East Machias, the Saint Croix, and the
Aroostook, which contributes to the Saint John (although I hear tell he ain't no saint). You
could get the biggest catches in the Penobscot, I'm talking 5000, to twice that, of the fishy-poos
in just a year. That there Kennebec sometimes would let go of 1200 from January to December,
but that's a big chunk less. Them other streams was even stingier.  The mob clamoring for
building up the fishermen's operations in this area came together as a result of some stuff done
in the law house of New Hampshire (God help us), and muscled over by some racketeering done
by Massachusetts, followed by heavy breathing, coz the both of them were looking at the boys
fishing the Merrimack (not the boat) and Connecticutt (not the state)
Rivers.

That Merrimack sleazes along in the bounds of New Hampshire and Massachusetts en total, the Connecticutt,
that's a different story: it's oozes partly in the state of the same
name, and many of its offshoots are in Vermont state.

So these here two states were hankering early on to get in on the racket, and their promotions
got some of the other dudes to working early on -- I be talking about Rhode Island (not the
rooster) and Maine (mmm, lobsters).

Inside of the half dozen states I just got through yammering about, known by some round here
as "New England" (duh), are all the USA rivers that the cruising Salmo salar pissed in, excepting
maybe a few rivers I won't mention, plus the tributary to the Saint
Lawrence (the less said about Larry, the better), up in the highlands
of New York (I heart).

The governors of these states had gone and ginned up some boards with commissioners and that
type of carp (I'm dyslexic) who's was to get on dumping a lot of salmon from elsewhere into
those fishless waterways.

Other states (the copycats) followed on doing the same damn things, and before you knew it
(1872 to be specific), the US Gubberment made its own commission to snoop in on how the fisheroos
were doing and what they was wanting for medicinal purposes, and they gave themselves the juice
to get all up in the fish faces and get them to propogate (wink,
wink, nudge, nudge) for the sake of dinners for us humans.

The gangsters, er, commissioners from New England focused their laser
beams toute suite on a couple of other fishies that liked to move
around (and were tasty too), the salmon (no wait, I thought we had
already talked about those) and the shad.

The rubbing out (with prejudice) of the salmon that used to cruise most of the states' rivers
was really sticking in their craw, and they wasn't going to stand
still for doing nothing about it, so they gets this idea: let's figure
out a primo way to steal a bunch of them from the Limeys or Frenchies,
over across the Big Pond, to put in our fish ghettos.

 

We were made to stay to supper by the aging man, but after we were rushed off, so that we could
make it over The Mountains before sunset.
As we begun the temperature was cold, as snow flakes were falling. We had with us the things
we needed for comfort. Our aging horse trotted quickly as usual on the way home; the wind blowing
just the right way; our carriage contained a tilted down top, and a boot that flipped up. Soon
we shall be home. Well, no negative can be found in going after a
girl that you have never met. 
Two idiots we surely were not. Similarly, the ordinary
people will notice a lazy unthinkable until the moment when their work is up, then we know
no obstacle, dreads no danger, and seems to triumph in the elements and men equally.
I understand that the internal administration, the war and justice,
often fell into the hands of the most corrupt, and that allowed dilapidations
subordinate officers, it was impossible to form any idea or just the
number of troops , or measures taken to provide them for lying and
stealing are inseparable, and in a country of recent civilization,
such as intermediate class peasants have neither simplicity nor increase
the boyars, or public opinion still exists to keep in check this third
class, whose existence is so recent, and popular belief of innocence
lost without acquired point of honor.

A display of feeling jealous was also noted among military commanders. It is the very nature
of a despotic government to create, even despite itself, jealousy in those who surround her:
one man will be able to change the whole wealth of each individual, fear and hope not too many
areas stirring constantly be implementing this jealousy, which is also very much pleased by another
feeling, hatred of foreigners.
 

The Duch pastor, Weygand and the German pastor, Gerock were often inducing their congragations
to pick up war in between and Muehlenberg brought them into partial unity.
Hausihl, native of Heilbonn, who was spelling his name as Houseal, afterwards,was serving the religious
worshippers at Maryland and Pennsylvania after the death of Weygand in the year 1770. He was
famous for his sermons as he was intellectually talented, and for
the identical sight with native style.

Thereby he could increase the gathering in the church.
How ever there was a turmoil in the church regarding language. Though the Germans had the victory, in
1750,they continued to come to the Broadway church and their popuplation increased as 8:1
compared to Duch and the uasage of Duch language came to an end at the Lutheran Church of New York.
On Saturday, 30th of November, 1771 Houseal had the previlage of preparatory service on funeral
rites at the administration of the Lord's Supper, next day.
The Duch Language was diminishing away but it was not taking off the difficulties of Lutheran,
old generation.

During this renaisance period a new demanding generation emerged, who had no language disparities.
They knew only English and had a lot of demands and needs to be met.  However the incidents
happening around, were carrying them off from the rivalries to new
visions and thoughts of a new generation.

The Church on Broadway was ruined by fire and was never built again. So the religious people
gathered at the Scotch Presbyterian Church at Cedar street for a short period.
This was the time during which the American Revolution began and the
oldies disparities widened and forming again into two groups, one
supporting George the Third and the second one supporting George Washington.

However, they were indifferent from other dwellers at New York.
Frederick Muehlenberg was a passionate politician and pastor of Swamp Church. He had to run away
and escape to Pennsylvania at the out burst of American War.

The Chaplains of the Hessian troops were offering the services as they were keeping good faith
and benevolent and supporting poor and so there was a greate deal of improvement in the congragation.

In 1783, The American troops marched into New York and Houseal, who
was the Pastor of Trinity Church taken away all his belivers to Nova
Scotia and established a Lutheran Church in Halifax.

Therewere no pastors in both churches and the commotion among the
two congrations were erradicated by Dr.Johann Christoph Kunze who
came from Philadelphia in 1784.

The worship was made at the Swamp Church and he was famous for bringing unity among these two rebels.

The former pastor, Frederick Muehlenberg, of Swamp Church, had to run away from New York as British
was heading for him to be caught and hanged.

Also he was asked to take an effective role in politics and he was a member of Continental Congress,
member of legislature of Pennsylvania and Speaker of Assembly. He was President of the convention
which converted the Constitution of the United States.
He left New York in A.D.1789 and the city just started to recover
from the damages of caused during Revolution as the British troops
were occupying the city.

In the year, 1783 the population was reduced to 10,000 from 20,000 and later increased to 30,000
in the following years.

So famous men had arrived to the city from all over to celebrate the inauguration of the first
President of American Republic.
 It seemed that most folks at the chateau presumed that Julia, who
was considered both virtuous and smart, had to be innocent of the
theft. It was Victor who was being presumed guilty, but then the missing
items were found in Julia's purse. So there was another investigation
and Julia, as we said, was brought before the magistrate.