(1) However we may increase our knowledge of the conditions of space in which man is situated,
that knowledge can never be complete, for the number of those conditions is as infinite as
the infinity of space. And therefore so long as not all the conditions influencing men are
defined, there is no complete inevitability but a certain measure of freedom remains.

(2) However we may prolong the period of time between the action we are examining and the judgment
upon it, that period will be finite, while time is infinite, and so in this respect too there
can never be absolute inevitability.

(3) However accessible may be the chain of causation of any action, we shall never know the
whole chain since it is endless, and so again we never reach absolute inevitability.

But besides this, even if, admitting the remaining minimum of freedom to equal zero, we assumed
in some given case--as for instance in that of a dying man, an unborn babe, or an idiot--complete
absence of freedom, by so doing we should destroy the very conception of man in the case we
are examining, for as soon as there is no freedom there is also no man. And so the conception
of the action of a man subject solely to the law of inevitability without any element of freedom
is just as impossible as the conception of a man's completely free action.

And so to imagine the action of a man entirely subject to the law of inevitability without
any freedom, we must assume the knowledge of an infinite number of space relations, an infinitely
long period of time, and an infinite series of causes.

To imagine a man perfectly free and not subject to the law of inevitability, we must imagine
him all alone, beyond space, beyond time, and free from dependence on cause.

In the first case, if inevitability were possible without freedom we should have reached a
definition of inevitability by the laws of inevitability itself, that is, a mere form without
content.

In the second case, if freedom were possible without inevitability we should have arrived at
unconditioned freedom beyond space, time, and cause, which by the fact of its being unconditioned
and unlimited would be nothing, or mere content without form.

We should in fact have reached those two fundamentals of which man's whole outlook on the universe
is constructed--the incomprehensible essence of life, and the laws defining that essence.

Reason says: (1) space with all the forms of matter that give it visibility is infinite, and
cannot be imagined otherwise. (2) Time is infinite motion without a moment of rest and is unthinkable
otherwise. (3) The connection between cause and effect has no beginning and can have no end.

Consciousness says: (1) I alone am, and all that exists is but me, consequently I include space.
(2) I measure flowing time by the fixed moment of the present in which alone I am conscious
of myself as living, consequently I am outside time. (3) I am beyond cause, for I feel myself
to be the cause of every manifestation of my life.

Reason gives expression to the laws of inevitability. Consciousness gives expression to the
essence of freedom.

Freedom not limited by anything is the essence of life, in man's consciousness. Inevitability
without content is man's reason in its three forms.

Freedom is the thing examined. Inevitability is what examines. Freedom is the content. Inevitability
is the form.

Only by separating the two sources of cognition, related to one another as form to content,
do we get the mutually exclusive and separately incomprehensible conceptions of freedom and
inevitability.

Only by uniting them do we get a clear conception of man's life.

Apart from these two concepts which in their union mutually define one another as form and
content, no conception of life is possible.

