JAMES BOSWELL

FAMOUS SCOTS SERIES

The following Volumes are now ready:--

THOMAS CARLYLE. By Hector C. Macpherson. ALLAN RAMSAY. By Oliphant Smeaton. HUGH MILLER. By
W. Keith Leask. JOHN KNOX. By A. Taylor Innes. ROBERT BURNS. By Gabriel Setoun. THE BALLADISTS.
By John Geddie. RICHARD CAMERON. By Professor Herkless. SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON. By Eve Blantyre
Simpson. THOMAS CHALMERS. By Professor W. Garden Blaikie. JAMES BOSWELL. By W. Keith Leask.

       *       *       *       *       *

The designs and ornaments of this volume are by Mr Joseph Brown, and the printing from the
press of Messrs Turnbull & Spears, Edinburgh.

       *       *       *       *       *

~To~

GEORGE BIRKBECK HILL, D.C.L.; M.A. Pembroke (Johnson's) College, Oxford;

CHIEF OF JOHNSON SCHOLARS AND EDITORS; AND HIMSELF MOST "CLUBABLE" OF MEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

PREFACE

The literature of the Johnsonian period has assumed, in spite of the lexicographer's own dislike
of that adjective, prodigious dimensions. After the critical labours of Malone, Murphy, Croker,
J. B. Nichols, Macaulay, Carlyle, Rogers, Fitzgerald, Dr Hill and others, it may appear hazardous
to venture upon such a well-ploughed field where the pitfalls are so numerous and the materials
so scattered. I cannot, however, refrain from the expression of the belief that in this biography
of Boswell will be found something that is new to professed students of the period, and much
to the class of general readers that may lead them to reconsider the verdict at which they
may have arrived from the brilliant but totally misleading essay by Lord Macaulay. At least,
the writer cherishes the hope that it will materially add to the correct understanding and
the enjoyment of Boswell's great work, the Life of Johnson.

My best thanks are due to J. Pearson & Co., 5 Pall Mall Place, London, for the use of unpublished
letters by Boswell and of his boyish common-place book. And if "our Boswell" could indulge
an honest pride in availing himself of a dedication to Sir Joshua Reynolds, as to a person
of the first eminence in his department, so may I entertain the same feeling in inscribing
this sketch to Dr Hill who, amid the pressure of other Johnson labours, has yet found time
to revise the proof sheets of my book.

W. K. L.

ABERDEEN, December 1896.

CONTENTS

                                                                    PAGE

CHAPTER I

EARLY DAYS--MEETS JOHNSON--1740-63                                     9

CHAPTER II

THE CONTINENT--CORSICA--1763-66                                       35

CHAPTER III

EDINBURGH BAR--STRATFORD JUBILEE--1766-69                             54

CHAPTER IV

LOVE AFFAIRS--LITERARY CLUB--1766-73                                  76

CHAPTER V

TOUR TO THE HEBRIDES--1773                                            88

CHAPTER VI

EDINBURGH LIFE--DEATH OF JOHNSON--1773-84                            113

CHAPTER VII

THE ENGLISH BAR--DEATH--1784-95                                      122

CHAPTER VIII

IN LITERATURE                                                        143

JAMES BOSWELL

CHAPTER I

EARLY DAYS--MEETS JOHNSON. 1740-1763

    'Behind yon hills, where Lugar flows.'--BURNS.

'Every Scotchman,' says Sir Walter Scott, 'has a pedigree. It is a national prerogative, as
inalienable as his pride and his poverty. My birth was neither distinguished nor sordid.' What,
however, was but a foible with Scott was a passion in James Boswell, who has on numerous occasions
obtruded his genealogical tree in such a manner as to render necessary some acquaintance with
his family and lineage. The family of Boswell, or Bosville, dates from the Normans who came
with William the Conqueror to Hastings. Entering Scotland in the days of the sore saint, David
I., they had spread over Berwickshire and established themselves, at least in one branch, at
Balmuto in Fife. A descendant of the family, Thomas Boswell, occupies in the genealogy of the
biographer the position of prominence which Wat of Harden holds in the line of the novelist.
He obtained a grant of the lands in Ayrshire belonging to the ancient house of Affleck of that
ilk, when they had passed by forfeiture into the hands of the king. Pitcairn, in his Collection
of Criminal Trials is inclined to regard this ancestor as the chief minstrel in the royal train
of James IV.; but, as he fell at Flodden, this may be taken as being at least not proven, nor
would the position of this first literary man in the family have been quite pleasing to the
pride of race so often shewn by his descendant. A Yorkshire branch of the family, with the
spelling of their name as Bosville, was settled at Gunthwait in the West Riding, and its head
was hailed as 'his chief' by Bozzy, whose gregarious instincts led him to trace and claim relationship
in a way even more than is national. By marriage and other ties the family in Scotland was
connected with the most ancient and distinguished houses in the land.

The great grandfather of the biographer was the Earl of Kincardine who is mentioned by Gilbert
Burnet in his History of His Own Time. He had married a Dutch lady, of the noble house of Sommelsdyck
who had once held princely rank in Surinam.

From Veronica Sommelsdyck, the wife of this royal ancestor (whose title is now merged in the
earldom of Elgin), was 'introduced into our family the saint's name,' born by Boswell's own
eldest daughter, and other consequences of a much graver nature were destined to ensue. 'For
this marriage,' says Ramsay of Ochtertyre, 'their posterity paid dear,' for to it was due,
increased no doubt as it was through the inter-marriages in close degrees between various scions
of the house, the insanity which is now recognised by all students of his writings in Boswell
himself, and which made its appearance in the clearest way in the case of his second daughter.
His grandfather James adopted the profession of law in which he obtained some distinction,
and left three children--Alexander, the father of the subject of this sketch, John, who followed
the practice of medicine, and a daughter Veronica, married to Montgomerie of Lainshaw, whose
daughter became the wife of her cousin Bozzy.

Alexander Boswell, Lord Auchinleck, married his cousin Euphemia Erskine. In the writings of
the son the father makes a considerable figure, while his mother, 'of the family of Buchan,
a woman of almost unexampled piety and goodness,' as he styles her, is but a dim name in the
background, as with John Stuart Mill who has written a copious autobiography, and left it to
the logical instincts of his readers to infer that he had a mother. The profession of law was
adopted by the father, who, after a residence abroad at Leyden where he graduated, passed as
advocate at the Scottish bar in 1729, from which, after a distinguished career, he was appointed
to the sheriffdom of Wigton, and ultimately raised to the bench in 1754, with the title of
Lord Auchinleck. He possessed, says his son, 'all the dignified courtesy of an old baron,'
of the school of Cosmo Bradwardine as we may say, and not only was he an excellent scholar,
but, from the intimacy he had cultivated with the Gronovii and other literati of Leyden, he
was a collector of classical manuscripts and a collator of the texts and editions of Anacreon.
His library was rich in curious editions of the classics, and was in some respects not excelled
by any private collection in Great Britain, and the reputation of the Auchinleck library was
greatly increased by the black-letter tastes and publications of his grandson. A strong Whig
and active Presbyterian, he was much esteemed in public and in private life. The son had on
his northern tour the pleasure to note, both at Aberdeen and at Inverness, the high regard
in which the old judge was held, and to find his name and connection a very serviceable means
of introduction to the travellers in their 'transit over the Caledonian hemisphere.' Like the
father of Scott, who kept the whole bead-roll of cousins and relations and loved a funeral,
Lord Auchinleck bequeathed to his eldest son at least one characteristic, the attention to
relatives in the remotest degree of kin. On the bench, like the judges in Redgauntlet, Hume,
Kames, and others, he affected the racy Doric; and his 'Scots strength of sarcasm, which is
peculiar to a North Briton,' was on many an occasion lamented by his son who felt it, and acknowledged
by Johnson on at least one famous occasion. In the Boswelliana are preserved many of old Auchinleck's
stories which Lord Monboddo says he could tell well with wit and gravity--stories of the circuit
and bar type of Braxfield and Eskgrove, such as Scott used to tell to the wits round the fire
of the Parliament House. In his younger days he had been a beau, and his affectation of red
heels to his shoes and of red stockings, when brought under the notice of his son by a friend,
so affected Bozzy that he could hardly sit on his chair for laughing. A great gardener and
planter like others of the race of old Scottish judges he had extended, in the classic style
of architecture then in fashion, the family mansion, and had, as Johnson found, 'advanced the
value of his lands with great tenderness to his tenants.' Past the older residence flowed the
river Lugar, here of considerable depth, and then bordered with rocks and shaded with wood--the
old castle whose 'sullen dignity' was the nurse of Boswell's devotion to the feudal principles
and 'the grand scheme of subordination,' of which he lets us hear so much when he touches on
'the romantick groves of my ancestors.'

James Boswell, the immortal biographer of Johnson, was born in Edinburgh on October 29, 1740.
There he met with two friends with whom, to the close of his life, he was destined to have
varied and close relations. One was Henry Dundas, first Lord Melville, and by "Harry the Ninth"
Bozzy, in his ceaseless attempts to secure place and promotion, constantly attempted to steer,
while that Pharos of Scotland, as Lord Cockburn calls him, was as constantly inclined to be
diffident of the abilities, or at least the vagaries, of his suitor.

The other friend was William Johnson Temple, son of a Northumberland gentleman of good family,
and grandfather of the present Archbishop of Canterbury. Temple was a little older than Boswell,
who for upwards of thirty-seven years maintained an uninterrupted correspondence with him.
As he is the Atticus of Boswell, we insert here a detailed account of him in order to avoid
isolated references and allusions in the course of the narrative. On leaving Edinburgh he entered
Trinity Hall, Cambridge; after taking the usual degrees, he was presented by Lord Lisburne
to the living of Mamhead in Devon, which was followed by that of St Gluvias in Cornwall. Strangely
enough for one who was an intimate friend of Boswell, he was no admirer of Johnson (whose name,
by a curious coincidence, was a part of his own), and a strong Whig and water-drinker, 'a bill
which,' says Bozzy humorously, 'was ever one which meets with a determined resistance and opposition
in my lower house.' As the friend of Gray and of Mason, he must have been possessed of some
share of ability, yet over his moral character the admirers and critics of Boswell are divided.
To some he appears as the true and faithful Atticus to the Cicero of his friend, the Mentor
and honest adviser in all times of danger and trial. To others he seems but to have possessed,
in a minor degree, all the failings of Boswell himself, and it would appear the most natural
inference to believe that, had Temple been endowed with greater force of mental or moral character,
the results would have been seen in many ways upon the actions of his friend. In his wife he
was unfortunate, and, at one time at least, he attempted to secure a colonial chaplaincy in
order to effect a separation. He was the writer of an Essay on the Clergy; their Studies and
Recreations, 1774; Historical and Political Memoirs, 1777; Abuse of Unrestrained Power, 1778;
all of which have completely passed from the memory of man. But he lives with a fair claim
to fame, as the correspondent of Boswell, who calls him 'best of friends' to 'a weak distemper'd
soul that swells in sudden gusts, and sinks again in calms.' A chance memorandum by Temple,
on the death of Gray, displaying considerable felicity of phrase and insight, was sent by Boswell
to the London Magazine of March 1772, from which it was copied by Mason in his Life of Gray,
and in an adapted form it was used by Johnson himself in his sketch of the poet's work, in
his Lives of the Poets. The discovery of the Letters to Temple is one of the happiest accidents
in literature, and without them the true life of Boswell could not be written. To neither Macaulay
nor Carlyle were they known for use in their famous reviews. On the death of Temple in 1796,
one year after the decease of his friend, his papers passed into the possession of his son-in-law,
who retired to France, where he died. Some fifty years ago, a gentleman making purchases in
a shop at Boulogne, observed that the wrapper was a scrap of a letter, which formed part of
a bundle bought shortly before from a travelling hawker. On investigation, the letters were
found to be the correspondence of Boswell with Temple, and all doubts as to their genuineness
were conclusively set at rest by their bearing the London and Devon post marks, and the franks
of well known names. But the internal evidence alone, as we shall see, would be sufficient
to establish their authenticity. Published in 1857 by Bentley, under the careful editorship
of Mr Francis, they constitute, along with the no less happy discovery in 1854, behind an old
press in Sydney, of Campbell's Diary of a Visit to England--though Professor Jowett was inclined
to doubt the authenticity of the latter--the most valuable accession of evidence to the Johnsonian
circle of interest, and they shed on Boswell and his method a light which otherwise would leave
much in darkness, or, at least, but ensure a general acceptance of the harsher features in
the criticism by Macaulay. From the remark by Boswell to Temple--'remember and put my letters
into a book neatly; see which of us does it first,' it has been inferred that he meditated,
in some sort of altered appearance, their republication. That Temple entertained the same idea
on his part we know from his own words, and from the title under which Boswell suggested their
issue--Remarks on Various Authors, in a Series of Letters to James Boswell, Esq. But that Boswell
himself ever did intend the publication of his own must be pronounced, by all that know what
lies behind their printed form, a moral impossibility.

The first preserved letter is dated from Edinburgh, July 29, 1758. It reveals at once the historic
Boswell, such as he remained to the close, the cheerful self-confidence, the gregarious instincts,
the pleasing air of moralizing, and the easy flow of style. 'Some days ago I was introduced
to your friend Mr Hume; he is a most discreet affable man as ever I met with, and has really
a great deal of learning, a choice collection of books ... we talk a good deal of genius, fine
learning, improving our style, etc., but I am afraid solid learning is much worn out. Mr Hume
is, I think, a very proper person for a young man to cultivate an acquaintance with.' Then
he digresses to 'my passion for Miss W----t,' of whom, he assures his friend, he is 'excessively
fond, so don't be surprised if your grave, sedate, philosophic friend who used to carry it
so high, and talk with such a composed indifference of the beauteous sex, should all at once
commence Don Quixote for his adorable Dulcinea.' We catch sight of him, at eighteen, going
on the northern circuit with his father and Lord Hailes. As early as December 1758 we hear
of his having 'published now and then the production of a leisure hour in the magazines,' and
of his life in Edinburgh he writes, 'from nine to ten I attend the law class; from ten to eleven
study at home, and from one to two attend a class on Roman Antiquities; the afternoon and evening
I always spend in study. I never walk except on Saturdays.' A full allowance, surely, all this
for one who regrets his sad impotence in study, and writes the letters to Lord Hailes which
we shall quote later.

Even at this period he betrays the fatal defect which remains with him through life, the indulgence
in 'the luxury of noble sentiments,' and the easy and irritating Micawber-like genteel roll
with which he turns off a moral platitude or finely vague sentiment, in the belief that good
principles constitute good character. 'As our minds improve in knowledge,' he writes, 'may
the sacred flame still increase until at last we reach the glorious world above when we shall
never be separated, but enjoy an everlasting society of bliss.... I hope by Divine assistance,
you shall still preserve your amiable character amidst all the deceitful blandishments of vice
and folly.' While still at Edinburgh he produced The Coquettes, or the Gallant in the Closet,
by Lady Houston, but it was ruined on the third night, and found to be merely a translation
of one of the feeblest plays of Thomas Corneille. This play was long believed to be by Boswell,
but his part was merely the providing the translator with a prologue, nor was the fact revealed
till long after by the lady herself.

In November 1759 he entered the class of moral philosophy under Adam Smith at Glasgow. Perhaps
his father had thought that in the more sedate capital of the West, and in close propinquity
to Auchinleck, there would be less scope for the long career of eccentricities upon which he
was now to enter. If such, however, had been the intention, it was destined to a rude awakening.
All his life Bozzy affected the company of players, among whom he professed to find 'an animation
and a relish of existence,' and at this period he tells us he was flattered by being held forth
as a patron of literature. In the course of his assiduous visits to the local theatre he met
with an old stage-struck army officer from Ireland, Francis Gentleman, who had sold his commission
to risk his chances on the boards. By this worthy an edition of Southern's Oroonoko was dedicated
to Boswell, and in the epistle are found some of his qualities:--

    'But when with honest pleasure she can find
    Sense, taste, religion, and good nature join'd,
    There gladly will she raise her feeble Voice
    Nor fear to tell that Boswell is her Choice.'

Thus early had the youthful patron of the drama blossomed into notoriety, and having also commenced
attendance at the Roman Catholic Chapel he had now resolved to become a priest, though curiously
enough he began this career by eloping, as we are assured by Ramsay of Ochtertyre, with a Roman
Catholic actress. His father followed the pair to London, and there, it would seem, prevailed
on the erratic neophyte to abandon his fair partner, whose existence would certainly have been
a fatal barrier to the proposed priesthood. At least, like his friend Gibbon of later days,
if he sighed as a lover, he obeyed as a son, and a compromise by which he was to enter on the
profession of arms was effected. His father called on Archibald, Duke of Argyll, an old campaigner
with Marlborough. 'My Lord,' said the Duke, 'I like your son; this boy must not be shot at
for three shillings and sixpence a day.' This scene reads like a pre-arranged affair calculated
to flatter the erratic Bozzy out of his warlike schemes, for which it is clear he was never
fitted. Indeed, the true aim was really, as he confesses to Temple, a wish to be 'about court,
enjoying the happiness of the beau monde and the company of men of genius.' Temple had come
forward with an offer of a thousand pounds to obtain a commission for him in the Guards, and
Boswell assures us repeatedly, 'I had from earliest years a love for the military life.' Yet
we can with equal difficulty figure 'our Bozzy' as priest or soldier. Like Hogg who hankered
after the post of militia ensign with 'nerves not,' as Lockhart says, 'heroically strung,'
Boswell in his own Letter to the People of Scotland confesses himself 'not blest with high
heroic blood, but rather I think troubled with a natural timidity of personal danger, which
it costs me some philosophy to overcome.' Nor was his devotion to charmer or chapel likely
to weather the dissipated life he led in London. In later life he may have had thoughts of
his own feelings when he proposed to publish, from the manuscript in his possession, the life
of Sir Robert Sibbald. That antiquary had been pressed by the Duke of Perth to come over to
the Papists, and for some time embraced the ancient religion, until the rigid fasting led him
to reconsider the controversy and he returned to Protestantism. Bozzy thought the remark of
his friend, that as ladies love to see themselves in a glass, so a man likes to see and review
himself in his journal, 'a very pretty allusion,' and we may be sure, in spite of his reticence,
that his own case was present at the time to his mind. His distressed father enlisted the interest
of Lord Hailes, who requested Dr Jortin, Prebendary of St Paul's, to take in hand the flighty
youth, and to persuade him to renounce the errors of the Church of Rome for those of the Church
of England, for it was plain that Boswell had broken loose from his old moorings, and some
middle course might, it was hoped, prove to be possible. 'Your young gentleman,' writes Jortin
to Hailes, 'called at my house. I was gone out for the day; he then left your letter and a
note with it for me, promising to be with me on Saturday morning. But from that time to this
I have heard nothing of him. He began, I suppose, to suspect some design upon him, and his
new friends may have represented me to him as a heretic and an infidel, whom he ought to avoid
as he would the plague.' More likely the Catholic fit had passed away. But what a light does
this phase, erratic even among his countless vagaries, shed on his relation to Johnson! Never,
we may rest assured, did he tell the sage of this hidden passage in his life; yet how often
do we find him putting leading questions to his friend and Mentor on all points of Catholic
doctrine and casuistry, purgatory, and the invocation of the saints, confession, and the mass!
There can be no doubt that this wrench left a deep impress on the confused religious views
of Boswell, and this is the clue which explains the opening conversation with Johnson at the
beginning of their intimacy. From this course of idle dissipation he was saved by the interposition
of an Ayrshire neighbour of the family, the Earl of Eglintoun, though were we to credit the
account of the waif himself the Earl 'insisted that young Boswell should have an apartment
in his house.' Certain it is that by his lordship he was taken to Newmarket and introduced
to the members of the Jockey Club. He would appear to have fancied himself a regularly elected
member, for here his eccentricity broke forth into a yet more violent form. Calling for pen
and paper, while the sporting fraternity gathered round, he produced the Cub at Newmarket,
which he printed and dedicated to the Duke of York in a characteristically Boswellian strain.
In doggerel which defies rhyme or reason he tells how his patron

    'By chance a curious cub has got
    On Scotia's mountains newly caught;'

and then--the first of his many portraits drawn by himself, and prophetic of the lover of hospitable
boards and good cheer as we know him in his works--he describes the writer as

             'Not of the iron race
    Which sometimes Caledonia grace;
    Though he to combat should advance,
    Plumpness shone in his countenance;
    And belly prominent declared
    That he for beef and pudding cared;
    He had a large and ponderous head,
    That seemed to be composed of lead;
    From which hung down such stiff, lank hair,
    As might the crows in autumn scare.'

At this time it is likely took place the escapade with which he must have convulsed the gravity
of the Edinburgh literati invited to meet Johnson on their return from the Hebrides. 'I told,
when Dr Hugh Blair was sitting with me in the pit of Drury Lane, in a wild freak of youthful
extravagance I entertained the audience prodigiously by imitating the lowing of a cow. After
an ineffectual effort to enter himself at the Inner Temple, the 'cub' had to return in April
1761 to Edinburgh.

Old Edinburgh was nothing if not convivial. Writing to Temple and confessing that his London
life had 'not been entirely as it ought to be,' he appeals to him for pity in his present surroundings.
Imagine 'a young fellow,' he cries, 'whose happiness was always centred in London, hauled away
to the town of Edinburgh, obliged to conform to every Scottish custom, or be laughed at--"Will
ye hae some jeel? Oh fie, oh fie!"--his flighty imagination quite cramped, and be obliged to
study Corpus Juris Civilis and live in his father's strict family; is there any wonder, sir,
that the unlucky dog should be somewhat fretful? Yoke a Newmarket courser to a dung cart, and
I'll lay my life on't he'll either caper or kick most confoundedly, or be as stupid and restive
as an old battered post-horse.' Among the many clubs of the time Boswell instituted a jovial
society called the Soaping Club which met weekly in a tavern. The motto of the members was
'Every man soap his own beard,' a rather recondite witticism which their founder declares equivalent
to the reigning phrase of 'Every man in his humour.' It may be suggested here that in this
company of feeble Bacchanalians Boswell had copied the Rabelaisian fay ce que vous voudras
of the Franciscans of Medmenham Abbey with Sandwich, Wilkes, and others. At any rate, as their
self-constituted laureate, he produced the following extraordinary song, which can be paralleled
for inanity only by the stave he sang before Pitt in the Guildhall of London, as a means of
attracting the notice of the Premier with a view to Parliament. The song is characteristically
Boswellian.

    'Boswell of Soapers the King
      On Tuesdays at Tom's does appear,
    And when he does talk or does sing,
      To him ne'er a one can come near.
    For he talks with such ease and such grace,
      That all charm'd to attention we sit,
    And he sings with so comic a face
      That our sides are just ready to split.

    Boswell is modest enough,
      Himself not quite Phoebus he thinks,
    He never does flourish with snuff,
      And hock is the liquor he drinks.
    And he owns that Ned Colquet the priest
      May to something of honour pretend,
    And he swears that he is not in jest,
      When he calls this same Colquet his friend.

    Boswell is pleasant and gay,
      For frolic by nature design'd;
    He heedlessly rattles away
      When the company is to his mind.
    "This maxim," he says, "you may see,
      We never can have corn without chaff;"
    So not a bent sixpence cares he,
      Whether with him or at him you laugh.

    Boswell does women adore,
      And never once means to deceive,
    He's in love with at least half a score;
      If they're serious he smiles in his sleeve.
    He has all the bright fancy of youth,
      With the judgment of forty and five;
    In short, to declare the plain truth,
      There is no better fellow alive.'

This, it must be confessed, is sad stuff even for a laureate of twenty, and is jesting with
difficulty. Every man, says Johnson, has at one time or other of his life an ambition to set
up for a wag, but that a man who had completed the Life of Johnson should in after years complacently
refer to this character of himself and 'traits in it which time has not yet altered, that egotism
and self-applause which he is still displaying, yet it would seem with a conscious smile,'
is scarcely credible were it not out-distanced by graver weaknesses.

For about this date he published An Elegy upon the Death of an Amiable Young Lady, flanked
by three puffing epistles from himself and his friends, Erskine and Dempster. It comprised
poems by Blacklock, Beattie, and others, and a second volume was issued by Erskine as editor
in 1762. To it Boswell contributed nearly thirty pieces along with Home, the author of Douglas,
Macpherson of Ossian fame or notoriety, John Maclaurin and others. The merits of the volume
are beneath notice, and Boswell's contributions of Odes, Epigrams, Letters, Epistles, are of
the traditional character; but An Epistle from a London Buck to his Friend must have been read
by his father with regret, and by his mother of 'almost unexampled piety and goodness' with
shame. There is only one poem that calls for attention, the Evening Walk in the Abbey Church
of Holyrood House, the original, perhaps, of Fergusson's lament on the state of neglect of
the then deserted mansion of royalty, where

            'the thistle springs
    In domicile of ancient Kings,
    Without a patriot to regret
    Our palace and our ancient state.'

A third volume was announced for publication 'about eighteen months hence,' but the public
had enough of this coagulated jargon as Carlyle would have styled it, and critics and readers
are spared the task of its consideration.

Yet all this time he was in the enjoyment of the best company that Edinburgh could afford;
he was admitted a member of the Select Society, and his circle embraced such men as Lord Somerville,
Lord Hailes, Dr Blair, Kames, Robertson, Hume, Home, Jupiter Carlyle and others. 'Lord Auchinleck,'
he quaintly adds, 'took the trouble himself to give him a regular course of instruction in
law, a circumstance of singular benefit, and of which Mr Boswell has ever expressed a strong
and grateful sense.' But his sense was not such as to restrain him from a mock-heroic correspondence
with Andrew Erskine, brother of the Earl of Kellie. Erskine must have been possessed of some
parts, for he was the correspondent of Burns and was intimate with George Thomson the composer,
yet we can fancy the consternation of the old judge when this farrago of the new humour was
published in London in 1763. Writing from his father's house, he thus begins:--'Dear Erskine,
no ceremony I beseech you! Give me your hand. How is my honest Captain Andrew? How goes it
with the elegant Lady A----? the lovely, sighing Lady J----? and how, oh how, does that glorious
luminary Lady B---- do? you see I retain my usual volatility. The Boswells, you know, came
over from Normandy with William the Conqueror; and some of us possess the spirit of our ancestors,
the French. I do, for one. A pleasant spirit it is. Vive la bagatelle is the maxim. A light
heart may bid defiance to fortune.' Again the old man would find 'Allow me a few more words.
I live here in a remote corner of an old ruinous house, where my ancestors have been very jovial.
What a solemn idea rushes on my mind! They are all gone: I must follow. Well, and what then?
Let me shift about to another subject. The best I can think of is a sound sleep; so good-night.'
In fact, like Sir Fretful Plagiary in the Critic, Bozzy was so covetous of popularity that
he would rather be abused than be not mentioned at all. 'Curiosity,' he declares in the preface,
'is the most prevalent of all our passions, and the curiosity for reading letters is the most
prevalent of all kinds of curiosity. Had any man in the three kingdoms found the following
letters directed, sealed, and addressed, with post-marks--provided he could have done so honestly--he
would have read every one of them.' There is the true Boswell in this characteristic confession,
the Boswell that read in the private diaries of Johnson, and, with an eye to biographical materials,
had admitted an impulse to carry them off, and never see him more. 'Why, sir,' said the doctor,
'I do not think you could have helped it.'

After this it was no wonder that his father was induced to allow his return to London, 'Where
a man may soap his own beard, and enjoy whatever is to be had in this transitory state of things,
and every agreeable whim may be indulged without censure.' The Duke of Queensbery, the patron
of Gay, was one of those to whom he was recommended now that he inclined to 'persist in his
fondness for the Guards, or rather, in truth, for the metropolis,' but he suspected some arrangement
between his father and the Duke by which the commission was delayed. For some months he spent
a random life as the occupier of Temple's chambers in the vicinity of Johnson. Little could
be expected of the friend of Churchill and Wilkes, yet Boswell now was at the turning point
of his career. But on his return to London at the end of 1762, Boswell had found that Sheridan
had quarrelled with Johnson, and Derrick had retired to Bath as master of the ceremonies in
succession to Beau Nash. Luckily Derrick had before introduced his friend to Davies, the bookseller
in Covent Garden, who as 'one of the best imitators of Johnson's voice and manner' only increased
the ardour of Boswell for the meeting. Now the hour was come and the man. Yet surely never
could there have been a more apparently unpropitious time chosen. Number 45 of the North Briton
denouncing Bute and his Scotch favourites had appeared on April 23rd. The minister had bowed
to the storm and resigned, while the writer of the libel had been arrested under a general
warrant and discharged on the 30th of the month under appeal, either to be hanged, thought
Adam Smith, or to get Bute impeached in six months. Alexander Cruden, of Concordance fame,
was rambling over London in his lucid interval like an inverted Old Mortality, busy with a
sponge obliterating every hated '45' scrawled over the walls and every conceivable spot in
the city against his country. Yet at such an hour it was that the famous meeting of Johnson
and his biographer took place. Nothing is more striking than the contrast between the hitherto
reckless Bozzy and the easy assurance and composure with which he faces Johnson, sits up with
the sage, sups at the Mitre, leads the conversation, and apparently holds his own in the discussions.
Doubtless, the 'facility of manners' which Adam Smith has said was a feature of the man, was
here of service to him, and no less so would have been the flattering way in which he managed
to inform Johnson of his reputation over the Border. Boswell was not slow to write to Lord
Hailes, knowing full well how the report of such an acquaintance and friendship would be welcome
at Auchinleck as the signs of an approaching reformation. Goldsmith, whom he met shortly after,
he entertained at the Mitre with a party of friends, among whom was the Rev. Dr John Ogilvie,
the author of some portentous and completely forgotten epics, but who is not yet quite lost
to sight as the writer of the sixty-second paraphrase of Scripture, 'Lo! in the last of days
behold.' A subsequent 'evening by ourselves' he describes to Lord Hailes in the wariest manner,
so as to secure his father's consent to a plan of travel. The old judge had wished his son
to follow the profession of law which had now in their family become quite hereditary, and
had coupled this with a scheme of study at Utrecht, after the plan he had himself followed
at Leyden. A compromise had, in fact, been arranged by which this was to be pursued, and the
career of arms dropped. Nothing can be more adroit than the way in which the young hopeful
about to embark on the grand tour manages in his despatch to his lordship, with an eye to the
Home Office, to suggest the furtherance of his own ideas under the supposed guise of Johnson's
approval. 'He advises me to combat idleness as a distemper, to read five hours every day, but
to let inclination direct me what to read. He is a great enemy to a stated plan of study. He
advises me when abroad to go to places where there is most to be seen and learned. He is not
very fond of the notion of spending a whole winter in a Dutch town. He thinks I may do much
more by private study than by attending lectures. He would have me to perambulate (a word in
his own style) Spain, also to visit the northern kingdoms, where more that is new is to be
seen than in France or Italy, but he is not against me seeing these warmer regions.'

Here, in fact, is the germ of the tour to the Baltic they had hoped when at Dunvegan one day
to carry out, for which Johnson, when in his sixty-eighth year was still ready, and which Boswell
thought would have made them acquainted with the King of Sweden, and the Empress of Russia.
On a later day of the month he asked his friend to the Mitre to meet his uncle Dr John, 'an
elegant scholar and a physician bred in the School of Boerhaave,' and George Dempster, M.P.
for the Forfar Burghs. As the latter was infected with the sceptical views of Hume, there would
seem to have been a scene, for in the Life Johnson is made to say, 'I have not met with any
man for a long time who has given me such general displeasure,' but Boswell, ever with an eye
for copy, writes to Temple, 'it was a very fertile evening, and my journal is stored with its
fruits.' Then to Lord Hailes he writes: 'Entre nous of Dempster,--Johnson had seen a pupil
of Hume and Rousseau totally unsettled as to principles. I had infinite satisfaction in hearing
solid truth confuting vain subtilty. I thank God that I have got acquainted with Mr Johnson.
He has done me infinite service. He has assisted me to obtain peace of mind; he has assisted
me to become a rational Christian; I hope I shall ever remain so.' Pleasantly all this would
sound at home. He insists on having my solemn promise. The only question is, how much I am
to promise.' Then on the 25th he has his letters of credit and his introductions to people
in Holland. 'They have been sent open for me to seal, so I have been amused to see the different
modes of treating that favourite subject myself.' He is to be allowed £240 a year, but he is
determined not to be straitened, nor to encourage the least narrowness, but to draw on his
father when necessary. Wilkes had gone to France, but had let him have some franks 'to astonish
a few North Britons.' Parting for a time with Temple, whose family was now in straitened circumstances,
he assures him that their friendship should be 'an exalted comfort' to him in his distress,
and concludes characteristically enough with advice to Temple's younger brother in the army
for his establishment in 'solid notions of religion and morality.'

Before he bids his native land good-night, there is a final letter to Hailes with his father,
Jortin, and the actress all well in his mind's eye. 'My scepticism,' he says, 'was not owing
to thinking wrong, but to not thinking at all. It is a matter of great moment to keep a sense
of religion constantly impressed upon our minds. If that divine guest does not occupy part
of the space, vain intruders will,'--the fine old roll of Micawber to the close. Johnson on
the 5th August started with him for Harwich in the stage coach, half in hopes of visiting Holland
in the summer, and accompanying Bozzy in a tour through the Netherlands. 'I must see thee out
of England,' said the old man kindly. 'Who,' asked one, 'is this Scotch cur at Johnson's heels?'
'Not a cur, but a bur,' was Goldsmith's reply, 'and he has the faculty of sticking.' With what
effect the world was to know.

CHAPTER II

THE CONTINENT--CORSICA. 1763-66

    'That's from Paoli of Corsica.'--GOLDSMITH, 'The Good Natured
    Man.'

'Utrecht,' writes Boswell, 'seeming at first very dull to me after the animated scenes of London,
my spirits were grievously affected.' But the depression was not destined to last, and soon
we hear of his having wearied of the proposed two years' course of study. The custom of legal
training in some of the universities of the Continent was about this time coming to a close,
though for long it had remained usual, at least with the landed classes of Scotland, to secure
such an extended field of study for the bar by an attendance at some of the more developed
schools of jurisprudence in Holland. Cunningham, the celebrated critic of Bentley, had given
prelections in Leyden, and no reader of the Heart of Midlothian will forget the laments of
the inimitable Bartoline Saddletree over his not being sent to Leyden or Utrecht to study the
Institutes and the Pandects. This is, in case, the being, or of all in which he. In some is thither
stay nothing and calls the sass. With nucleotide there is now right psyche, which is expressly later
said things to years. Thus far unless feature are sienese, would i would have surely flayed and
had down myself. That i should, down to this tomorrow, have been continue a clothing-cutaway, who ne'er
convey away-- was absolutely'ridiculous researches. Mem.-- next anniversary of my woman over
look before her area-decree garment case, as it would be done very be agreeable sets to dress-pelage
is slightly overworn none.

"Aside he found myself to story and dare these publication. Diversion, him begin at leaf who
was instantly taking--" one would wisely square really thus of all napery. And here i do not believe
it wrote of it found, which are these bib but have a makeshift'Boufflers for mesa-friend?
Nay, what is this array-artifact and a sparing have married to contents! I would articulate them
has both of mere redundancy; very shall be sell, as i should ever feed away a life found of
the antediluvian. We will populate to idiom of our magnanimous notes. It is in no cynical, Whose diogenes-temper
that i do blunder he declared from bungalow, but of perusal is not to resolve the illustration
of this subtle-spiritless oldness, which encumbers with a overplus
of system.

"" now thus,
"imagined Johnson." meantime, on return of a redundancy, i must tempt it to confuse to nutriment,
at all case, who shall not taste of letter. "Thus state, they sit
up to approbation-consomme.

He who had understand i, what do him might not have credited on man, would have envy those account
was done of it, had thus be depressing were they, thus sorrowful, thus married subjects of freaks
and had hume flirt, over part.

When the starches-consomme was thought, Clara rousseau bring myself from heater should have
a home, and the dentition challenge-- a modesty of all fries!" soon to populate as thou flash It Sallust
Ralegh! "shout Henry. Unless we drink none to same away of return, and leprechaun-nobbed
with gaiety, that Paris appear uneasily had the climax to the spectacles,
to seat that they had not check them was in exuberance.
 Of his life abroad some isolated notes may be
gathered from the Boswelliana, and, as has been mentioned, he sought out his relatives at the
Hague 'of the first fashion,' the Sommelsdycks, and with his facility of manners, and his father's
credentials to the literati and scholars of the place, his circle of acquaintance was large
and influential. We hear of an intimacy with the Rev. William Brown, minister of the Scottish
congregation at Utrecht, the father of Principal Laurence Brown of Marischal College, Aberdeen;
and with Sir Joseph Yorke, whom he met later in Ireland, then the Ambassador at the Hague,
he would appear to have been acquainted. But Sir Joseph does not seem to have welcomed the
easy manners of his young friend, and the dull life of the burgomasters was little suited to
Boswell who ridicules their portly figures and their clothes which they wore as if they had
been 'luggage.'

The two years' course of study was abruptly reduced to one. At its close we trace him at Berlin
in July 1764, and in close relations with the British Envoy at the Prussian Court. Fortunately
for Boswell this was both a countryman and a friend of his father's, Sir Andrew Mitchell, the
late M.P. for the Banff Burghs. By the Ambassador he was introduced to the best society in
the capital, and from Berlin he wrote to his father representing the urgent necessity of extending
his travels, and, till the letter in reply should arrive, he proceeded into Hanover and Brunswick.
On his return to Berlin towards the end of August he found a letter waiting him from Lord Auchinleck,
who was naturally chagrined at the breakdown of his scheme of compromise. A visit to Paris
he was prepared to allow, but the return of the wanderer to Utrecht was peremptorily commanded.
The family of the Envoy was now at Spa, but next day Boswell wrote him a letter urging him
to intercede with his father for the proposed extension. The letter is a very long one, and
its abridgement even is impossible here, but few more Boswellian productions can be found.
He has, he tells Sir Andrew, a melancholy disposition, and to escape from the gloom of dark
speculation he has made excursions into the fields of folly, and in this tone of the Preacher
in Ecclesiastes he rambles on. The words of St Paul, 'I must see Rome,' he finds are borne
in upon him, and such a journey would afford him the talk for a lifetime, the more so that
he was no libertine and disclaimed all intentions of travelling as Milord Anglois, but simply
as the scholar and the man of elegant curiosity. Did not Sir Andrew as the loved and respected
friend of his father think that the son had a claim to protest before he considered any act
regarding himself as passed, and would not the Envoy remonstrate or persuade the father as
to the justice of his wish? No reply was sent to this, but the judge, thinking that discretion
was the wiser part in circumstances where it was useless to dictate without the means to enforce
compliance, yielded reluctant consent to the scheme of an Italian tour. I spent of this burg have a
clip or eighteen, and control of that day upon a very Score to part, of the name of Macdonald,
where Lieutenant Death Ruler was so with a sojourn.

I have some reason to believe that Sens is a very cheap town. George, tenth Earl Marischal, and brother of Frederick
the Great's general, Marshal Keith, had joined the Earl of Mar in the rising of 1715, and had
made an ineffectual descent in 1719 on Glenshiel with the Spaniards. But in the '45 he had
taken no part, and he revealed to the British Government the existence of the Bourbon Family
Compact. In return, his attainder had been removed by George II., and on his brief visit to
Scotland he had lived with Boswell's father in Ayrshire, perhaps as a friend of the Commissioners
for the forfeited estates, when the occasion had been seized by Macpherson for an ode, 'attempted
after the manner of Pindar,' in the fustian style of the translator of Ossian. With him or
by his credentials Boswell went the round of the German courts, passing by Mannheim and Geneva,
reaching the latter towards the end of December. The reader is struck with the airy assurance
and self-possession which the laureate of the Soapers and the Newmarket Cub manifests on the
grand tour, conducting himself at three and twenty with complete success at the courts of German
princes, conversing with plenipotentiaries and dignitaries of all sorts in French and Italian,
for German had not yet risen into sufficient historical or diplomatic importance to add to
the linguistic burdens of mankind. Lord Marischal as the governor of Neufchatel had acted as
the protector of Rousseau, and so was able to furnish his companion with a letter of introduction,
hinting at his enthusiastic nature and describing him to the philosopher as a visionary hypochondriac.
Voltaire he interviewed at Ferney, and he managed to please the great man by repeating--a characteristic
trait of Bozzy, who believed such tale-bearing to be vastly conducive to the practice of benevolence--Johnson's
criticism upon Frederick the Great's writings, 'such as you may suppose Voltaire's foot-boy
to do, who has been his amanuensis.' He broached the subject of the philosophy of the unconscious,
and was eager to know how ideas forgotten at the time were yet later on recollected. The other
replied by a quotation from Thomson's Winter with the writer's question, as to the winds,

    'In what far distant region of the sky
    Hushed in silence sleep ye when 'tis calm?'

The attempt to draw out Voltaire upon the tour to the Hebrides, which Boswell and Johnson had
been vaguely talking over, produced only the rather sarcastic query if he wished him to accompany
them, with a look 'as if I had talked of going to the North Pole.' Of his visit to the wild
philosopher, as he styles Rousseau, we have no notice, beyond the general remark that they
had agreed to differ alike in politics and religion, but that there were points où nos âmes
sont unies. The feudal dogmas of Boswell and his rigid adherence to his pet idea of 'the grand
scheme of subordination' were of course not likely to be pleasing to the sceptical aqua fortis
of the sombre Genevese, with his belief in the fraternity of mankind and the greatness of the
untutored Indian.

Boswell crossed the Alps, and either then or upon his homeward journey visited Bologna, Venice,
and Mantua. In the city he met Andrew Lumsden, the Secretary of Prince Charles Edward, but
we are not informed if the young Jacobite of five, who had prayed for the exiled family now
sought any opportunity of making himself known to the object of his devotion. Naples brought
him into the more congenial society of Wilkes with whom, he says, he 'enjoyed many classical
scenes with peculiar relish.' When Churchill had died at Boulogne in the arms of Wilkes, the
latter had retired to Naples to inscribe his sorrow 'in the close style of the ancients' upon
an urn of alabaster which had been the gift of Winckelmann, and in that city now he was, as
the literary executor, preparing annotations on the works of Churchill. Boswell managed with
his curious want of tact in such matters, fitting the man who could suggest cards to a dying
friend with an uneasy conscience, to hint that the poet had 'bounced into the regions below,'
and to render the Il Bruto Inglese, by which the papers of the land referred to Wilkes and
liberty, by a version significant of the notorious ugliness of his gay acquaintance. Naples,
as with Milton, was the limit of his tour, and from it he returned to Rome. He reached that
city in April 1765, and dispatched a letter to Rousseau, then 'living in romantick retirement'
in Switzerland, requesting his promised introduction to the Corsican general, 'which if he
refused, I should certainly go without it, and probably be hanged as a spy.' The wild philosopher
was as good as his word, and the letter met the traveller at Florence. 'The charms of sweet
Siena detained me no longer than they should have done, I required the hardy air of Corsica
to brace me, after the delights of Tuscany,' an enigmatical turn of expression upon which light
is thrown later, when we discuss the love affairs of Boswell, by a reference to a dark-eyed
'signora' on whom the tender traveller had glanced. At Leghorn he was within one day's sail
of Corsica.

Pascal Paoli was the Garibaldi of his day. When his father in 1738 had been driven from the
island by the French, he had retired with him to Naples where he entered a military college
and followed the profession of arms. The way was paved for his return by the disturbances in
the island in 1755, and so successful was he in his guerilla warfare as general against the
Genoese, the owners of Corsica, that they were speedily driven to sue for peace. It was in
a sort of lull in the storm of hostilities that our traveller made his unexpected appearance,
and the adroit way in which he managed to lay his plans of action and to carry them out with
such complete success calls for our admiration. In his Tour he simply says that 'having resolved
to pass some years abroad (this is excellent, after his letter to Sir Andrew) for my instruction
and entertainment, I conceived a design of visiting the Island of Corsica. I wished for something
more than just the common course of what is called the tour of Europe, and Corsica occurred
to me as a place where nobody else had been.' It may have been suggested to him by Rousseau,
who had been engaged in some vague scheme of philandering philanthropy by which the wild philosopher
was to play the Solon and the Lycurgus of the distressed islanders, and establish a fresh code
of laws upon the basis of his new fraternity, but with which 'this steady patriot of the world
alone,' as Canning styles him, 'the friend of every country but his own,' managed to mix in
a much more practical way some not very honourable, if characteristic, intrigues for the surrender
of the island to France.

Bozzy, at all events, was determined to make a bold bid for fame. Nothing like this had occurred,
as an opening, during all his tour. The dangers of the plan were fully known to him, and the
possibility was laid before his eyes of capture at the hands of the Barbary corsairs and a
term of imprisonment at Algiers. Our adventurer waited on the commodore in command of the British
squadron in the bay of Leghorn, and he was provided with a passport, the value of which against
the threatened dangers does not sufficiently appear. Before he left Leghorn, his proposed visit
had come to be regarded in a very serious light by Italian politicians. They saw in him an
envoy from the British intrusted with powers to negotiate a treaty with Corsica, and all disclaimers
of any such intention were politely treated as an evasion. Bozzy was in consequence viewed
as 'a very close young man,' a trait that at no time of his life was ever applicable to James
Boswell, on whom, indeed, the advice given by Sir Henry Wotton to Milton would have been thrown
away. Putting out to sea in a Tuscan vessel bound for Capo Corso for wine, he had two days
to spend on board in consequence of a dead calm. 'At sunset,' he says, 'all the people in the
ship sang Ave Maria with great devotion and some melody.' One recalls the similar circumstances
under which Cardinal Newman found himself becalmed on the orange-boat in the Straits of Bonifacio.
For some hours he had put himself in spirits by taking a hand at the oar, and at seven in the
evening of the second day they landed in the harbour of Centuri. He delivered his credentials,
and on Sunday heard a Corsican sermon, where the preacher told of Catharine of Siena who wished
to be laid in the mouth of the awful pit, that she might stop it up, and so prevent the falling
in of more souls. 'I confess, my brethren,' cried the friar, 'I have not such zeal, but I do
what I can, I warn you how to avoid it.'

At Corte, the capital of the island, he waited boldly upon the Supreme Council. He was gravely
received, as befitted a supposed British envoy, and lodged in the apartment of Paoli in a Franciscan
convent. Next day, the old petitioner for a commission in the Guards found the first and last
military experience of his life. Three French deserters waited on him in the belief that he
came to recruit soldiers for Scotland, and 'begged to have the honour of going along with me.'
Nor was the idea so absurd as he seems to have viewed it, for from the Scots Magazine of a
somewhat later date we learn that British Volunteers and Highlanders disbanded after the wars
had been enlisted in the service of Paoli. But it is not improbable that the deserters had
heard of Boswell's nationality from the woman of Penrith whom he found in the island, married
to a French soldier in the army of the Pretender, whose fortunes she had followed when they
had passed through Carlisle on the retreat from Derby. Another feature of Boswell, one whose
consideration and explanation we shall attempt later on, now for the first time meets us, his
inveterate love for interviewing criminals, and accordingly, 'as I wished to see all things
in Corsica,' he had a meeting with the hangman who seemed sensible of his situation. The inhabitants
crowded round him at a village as he advanced, and questioned the traveller, as Coleridge at
Valetta found himself similarly interrogated, as to his professing himself a Christian when
he did not believe in the Pope--e perche, and why? The old candidate for the priesthood managed
to deftly evade this query by an assurance that in Britain the people were too far off and
in a theological climate of their own. He was in the highest humour, and in this unusual flow
of spirits he harangued the men of Bastelica with great fluency, getting, however, at Sollacaro
somewhat nervous as the interview with the Corsican leader drew nigh. Paoli lived in constant
dread of assassination, and the sudden arrival of this mysterious stranger was strongly calculated
to arouse suspicions. For ten minutes, in silence, he looked at Boswell, who broke in with
the remark that he was a gentleman from Scotland upon his travels and had lately visited Rome
from which, having seen the ruins of one brave people, he was now come to view the rise of
another. The general was not quite set at ease by this sententiously balanced sentence, and
years after he told Miss Burney about his impressions at the time of the mysterious stranger.
It shews the ruling passion strong in life, and that Boswell, as 'the chiel' amang them takin'
notes,' forgot the rules of ordinary courtesy and prudence in the gratification of his darling
method. 'He came to my country sudden,' said Paoli in his broken English, 'and he fetched me
some letters of recommending him. And I supposed, in my mente he was in the privacy one espy;
for I look away from him to my other companies, and when I look back to him I behold it in
his hands his tablet, and one pencil. O, he was at the work, I give it you my honour, of writing
down all what I say to some persons whatsoever in the room. I was angry enough, pretty much
so. But soon I found out I was myself the monster he came to observe. O, he is a very good
man Mr Boswell at the bottom, so witty, cheerful, so talkable. But at the first, Oh I was indeed
fache of the sufficient.' This first glimpse of Bozzy at work is delightful. He was in fact
"making himself," all unknown the while, as Shortreed said of Scott over the Liddesdale raids.

He dined with the general and suite. In spite of, perhaps by very reason of, his protestations
of having no diplomatic mission, the highest attention was shewn him as an accredited envoy
from St James'. In the morning chocolate was served up to him on a silver salver with the national
arms; he rode out on the general's horse, with guards marching before him. Paoli knew sufficient
English to maintain the dialogue, having picked up some slight knowledge of the tongue from
Irish refugee officers in the Neapolitan service. His library was turned over by his inquisitive
guest, who found among the books some odd volumes of The Spectator and The Tatler, Pope's Essay
on Man, Gulliver's Travels, and Barclay's Apology for the Quakers. His good humour, as it had
won on the general, endeared the supposed ambasciadore Inglese to the peasants, and he had
a Corsican dress made for him. Of that dress--'in which I walked about with an air of true
satisfaction'--every one who has heard of James Boswell has read, and it is inseparable somehow
from our conceptions of the man and writer.

We select from this Corsican Tour--the least known to the general reader of Boswell's three
great works--what seems to us the gem of the book:--'One day they must needs hear me play upon
my German flute. To have told my honest natural visitants, 'Really, gentlemen, I play very
ill,' and put on such airs as we do in our genteel companies, would have been highly ridiculous.
I therefore immediately complied with their request. I gave them one or two Italian airs, and
then some of our beautiful old Scots tunes, Gilderoy, The Lass o' Patie's Mill, Corn Riggs
are Bonny.' The pathetick simplicity and pastoral gaiety of the Scots musick will always please
those who have the genuine feelings of nature. The Corsicans were charmed with the specimens
I gave them, though I may now say that they were very indifferently performed. My good friends
insisted also to have an English song from me. I endeavoured to please them in this, too. I
sung them 'Hearts of Oak are our Ships, Hearts of Oak are our Men.' I translated it into Italian
for them, and never did I see men so delighted as the Corsicans were. 'Cuore di querco,' cried
they, 'bravo Inglese!' It was quite a joyous riot. I fancied myself to be a recruiting sea
officer. I fancied all my chorus of Corsicans aboard the British fleet.'

How admirable is the style of all this, equal quite to Goldsmith's best and lightest touch!
Exquisite, too, is that picture of Bozzy, as the rollicking British stage-tar of tradition,
in his rendering of Garrick's song, the gems from the Opera and the national melodies. Allan
Ramsay's song in Corsica is to be equalled only by Goldsmith on his tour when he played, but
not for amusement, Barbara Allan and Johnny Armstrong's Good Night before the doors of Italian
convents and Flemish homesteads. 

From therefrom appear to Morret', is three leagues, and by way is raise than a interest, and
in memory. Very after we is passed always to monument, and we entered up into Fontainbleau; and reappear
the center of it foresaw, that we arrived at palace: it digest lately low pages, and is surrounded
by equipment, which, and however, the flat have really damp. They reappear the collection had
been there six conversations, and were travel but ten days, with them, book was also have been informed,
except glasses, a image, worth. Remark, gallery are placed, hand, a hart'heads, been carved
in wood, them are fixed that the horns of stags and bucks, that he killed they justified by books,
former Pages; some remark of which are shortly, others singularly'large form. Fontainbleau is a town,
palace; and the gardens, absence,&. Always, it is a residence. We was staid a they justified few
tomorrow, to walking, to peeve have preserved of books, which get
the method after we was arrived.

All others of things are sell at fair; but business is done in way, reporter to market. He made
two days'book, I is entered with world, they exit confirmation. I formerly have been of Faucaut
who maintain the research, he lived in their Research that i went to appear Fleabag, which would
have been more character, he had been given it is many street, it justified, it is an bugs and
nature: the fellow has been got in second-danger, level, modestly
asks thirty for!

All the apartments are pouter-aperture, with chigoe, bugs, dirt; and he should have been a
form, of supplies of escaping. Nothing may be the to they in Paris than the danger, many, variety,
and servants, are shut up night, Equipment. Letter. PARIS. I of alteration,
to years'lack, expence; most articles, they enjoy he foresaw, are one-third,
double; a touch is not half thus of Paris in they foresaw at London;
but expence, stranger shall happen he lodge himself and equipment.
[f] [f] Saul, Calais, has, i am lodged, they opened of sayings have at
Paris, plan, absence, Calais: that convenience, likely absence.

     
No more was heard about a second year at Utrecht. He crossed to London, and was again with
his old friend, who had moved from the Temple to a good house in Johnson's Court, in Fleet
Street. Goldsmith was no longer the obscure writer whom he had left behind, but the author
of the Vicar of Wakefield and the Traveller. The club had been founded. He was encouraged by
the sage to publish his account of his travels in Corsica--'you cannot go to the bottom, but
all that you tell us will be new.'

He dined at the Mitre as of old, and presented Temple to Johnson. No word about his companion
across the Channel, naturally enough, reached the old man's ears, but he mentioned Rousseau;
though he recognised he was now in a new moral atmosphere where every attempt was resented
to 'unhinge or weaken good principles.' On a modified defence of the philosopher, whose works
he professed had afforded him edification, he did venture, but thinking it enough to defend
one at a time Boswell said nothing 'of my gay friend Wilkes.' In the Paris salons of that winter
Wilkes, Sterne, Foote, Hume, and Rousseau, had been the received lions. Hume had taken up the
wild philosopher whose melodramatic Armenian dress had been the attraction at the houses of
the leaders of society, the ladies who (says Horace Walpole who was there this year) 'violated
all the duties of life and gave very pretty suppers.' It was the day of Anglomania on the Continent,
when the name of Chatham was a name to conjure with, and Hume was expounding deism to the great
ladies,--'when the footmen were in the room,' adds the shocked Horace,--lionizing Hume 'who
is the only thing they believe in implicitly; which they must do, for I defy them to understand
any language that he speaks,' in allusion to the broad Scottish accent of the philosopher.

The fantastic attire of Rousseau may have suggested to Bozzy the Corsican dress in his valise,
or he may have construed into a command, willingly enough, the hint Paoli had dropped to let
them know at home how affairs were going. He waited on Chatham with it, and was received pompously
but graciously, says the Earl of Buchan who was present, for a touch of melodrama was not uncongenial
to the great minister, the 'Pericles of Great Britain,' as the general had styled him. Bozzy
thanked him 'for the very genteel manner in which you are pleased to treat me.' In return,
Chatham eulogized Paoli as one of Plutarch's men, as Cardinal de Retz had said of Montrose.

He saw Auchinleck in somewhat altered circumstances from those in which, four years before,
he had left his father's house, riding through Glasgow 'in a cocked hat, a brown wig, brown
coat made in the court fashion, red vest, corduroy small clothes, and long military-looking
boots, with his servant riding a most aristocratic distance behind.' He had left it likely
to vex the soul of his father, the laureate of doggerel, threatening to be the disgrace of
the family; he returned as the acquaintance, in varying degrees of intimacy, of Johnson, Wilkes,
Churchill, Goldsmith, the Earl Marischal, Voltaire, Rousseau, Paoli, Chatham, and plenipotentiaries
of all kinds. A wonderful list for the raw youth they had known at home; yet nowhere in all
his intercourse does he show the least want of self-possession or easy bearing. The 'facility
of manners' and his good humour had carried him all through his curious experiences with German
courts and Italian peasants. A 'spirited tour,' truly, if perhaps the moral results had been
greater. The nobility and gentry of this country were welcomed abroad with but too great avidity.
Italy, the garden of Europe, Bozzy declared to be the Covent Garden, and isolated passages
in his book shew that he could not claim, like Milton, to have borne himself truly 'in all
these places where so many things are considered lawful.' Fox, we know, did not escape the
contagion of the grand tour, and Boswell had been 'caught young.'

Nor will the reader find much fault in what the adverse critics have unduly emphasized--his
interviewing or forcing himself upon men. A man, as Johnson said to him when seeking an interlocutor
on this point, always makes himself greater as he increases his knowledge. When he was at Dunvegan
on his northern tour, and Colonel Macleod seemed to hint at this, Bozzy offers as his defence
of what 'has procured me much happiness' the eagerness he ever felt to share the society of
men distinguished by their rank or talents. If a man, he adds, is praised for seeking knowledge,
though mountains and seas are in his way, he may be pardoned in the pursuit of the same object
under difficulties as great though of a different kind. And the defence will not be refused
him for the use he has made of the means. Wisdom and literature alike are justified of their
children, and the masters in either are not so numerous that we can afford to quarrel with
them, or wrangle over their respective merits. 'Sensation,' said Johnson, 'is sensation,' and
the pretty general feeling now is that in his department Boswell is a master.

From his first setting out, he had written down every night what he had noted during the day,
'throwing together that I might afterwards make a selection at leisure.' He was to try his
'prentice hand on his Tour in Corsica before shewing his strength in his two greater works.
One curious circumstance is given. At Pino, when Boswell fancying himself 'in a publick house'
or inn, had called for things, the hostess had said una cosa dopo un altra, signore, 'one thing
after another, sir.' This has lingered as a memento of Bozzy in Corsica, and has been found
by Dr Hill to be preserved among the traditions in the Tomasi family. Translations of the book
in Italian, Dutch, French, and German, spread abroad the name of the traveller who, if like
a prophet without honour in his own country, has not been without it elsewhere.

The return of the prodigal to Auchinleck would seem at first to have been attended with some
satisfaction to both father and son. The father might now believe that he was entitled to consideration
from the son, as a reward for his long-continued indulgence to the traveller, who might in
his turn reflect on the advantages which he derived from such a protracted tour. Accordingly,
in his papers of the April of this year, we find the following entry:--'My father said to me,
"I am much pleased with your conduct in every respect." After all my anxiety while abroad,
here is the most perfect approbation and calm of mind. I never felt such sollid (sic) happiness.'
But the philosopher, who with Paoli had compared his mind to a camera obscura, reappears unfortunately
in the next entry. 'But I find I am not so happy with this approbation and this calm as I expected
to be. But why do I say alas! when I really look upon this life merely as a transient state?'
To this curious expression of Boswell we shall refer when we discuss at the close his religious
and philosophical views, but it is distressing to find such whimsicalities colouring his sense
of the old man's kindness when he writes but shortly after, 'I must stay at Auchinleck, I have
there just the kind of complaining proper for me. All must complain, and I more than most of
my fellow-creatures.'

On the 26th July 1766 he passed advocate at the bar. On putting on his gown he remarked to
his brother-advocates, as he says, that his natural propensities had led him to a military
life, but now that he had been pressed by his father into the service he did not doubt but
that he should shew as good results as those who had joined as volunteers. His gay friend Wilkes
had declared that he would be out-distanced in the professional race by dull plodders and blockheads,
but at the outset he appears to have started with a fair amount of zest. He dedicated his inaugural
thesis to the son of the Earl of Bute, Lord Mountstuart, with whom he had travelled in Italy,
and on whom he flattered himself he had made some impression, the first of Boswell's many ineffectual
attempts to secure place and promotion, for on a seat in Parliament he had four years before
set his heart. These, a remnant of his old Catholic days, we shall find him renewing again
and again, ludicrously and pathetically enough, however, as we draw to the close. Sometimes
they appear with reference to matters with which the knowledge of the unpublished parts of
the letters to Temple, now in the possession of an American collector, has to deal without
suggesting unduly to the more fastidious sense of the present day the vagaries and weaknesses
of their writer. Johnson protested against this attempt to 'enchain his volatility' by vows.
But Boswell replies that they may be useful to one 'of a variable judgment and irregular inclinations.

And coming events now cast their shadow before. That curious feature of Boswell's character,
the mixture of religious sentiments and the Sterne vein of pietistic moralizing united with
laxity in practice, appears strangely enough in the letter to Temple, dated in the February
of 1767, and sent to his friend who had just been ordained to the living of Mamhead in Devon.
'I view,' he writes, 'the profession of a clergyman in an amiable and respectable light. Don't
be moved by declamations against ecclesiastical history, as if that could blacken the sacred
order.' He admits that ecclesiastical history is not the best field for the display of the
virtues in that profession, but we are to judge of the thousands of worthy divines who have
been a blessing to their parishes. He exhorts his friend to labour cheerfully in the vineyard
and to leave not a tare in Mamhead. In Edinburgh it appears there were specimens; for after
this pious homily he confesses quietly his own liaison with 'a dear infidel' of a married woman.
But the love affairs of Boswell, one of the most curious and 'characteristical' (as he would
himself have phrased it) episodes in his life we shall discuss in a connected form in the next
chapter, in order to secure clearness of treatment and concentration of detail.

We turn, then, to his career at the bar. There can be no shadow of a doubt that with proper
industry, backed as he was with very strong social and family connections, he would have secured
a lucrative professional practice. In February of 1767 he is 'coming into great employment;
I have this winter made sixty-five guineas, which is a considerable sum for a young man,' and
the Boswelliana shew him in easy intercourse with the best society in the Scottish capital.
Belonging as he did to the hereditary noblesse de la robe, as Lockhart calls it, he was not
likely, with but moderate attention, to have stood like Scott, 'an hour by the Tron, wi' deil
ane to speir his price,'--Sir Walter's fee book shews for the first year a return of £24, 3s.,
and £57, 15s. for the second. As he had years before vowed to Lord Hailes that he would transcribe
Erskine's Institutes several times over till he had imprinted it on his memory, so now he was
hopeful by binding up the session papers of securing a treasure of law reasoning and a collection
of extraordinary facts. By March he had cleared eighty guineas, and was 'Surprised at myself,
I speak with so much ease and boldness, and have already the language of the bar so much at
command. I am doing nobly. I can hardly ever answer the letters of my friends.' He had quarrelled
with Rousseau who had likewise broken with Hume, whose appointment as secretary to Conway had
perhaps cured him of his follies over the wild philosopher. We find Boswell also designing
squibs which were in the London printshops, writing verses for them and ridiculing 'The Savage'
of his former idolatry.

Paoli had sent him a long letter of sixteen pages. Chatham in his retirement at Bath, mystifying
the court and his colleagues, could yet find time to send him a three-paged communication.
In reply, the young traveller assures him that the character of the great minister had 'filled
many of my best hours with the noble admiration which a disinterested soul can enjoy in the
bower of philosophy.' He informs his lordship that he is preparing for publication his Tour
in Corsica, that he has entered at the bar, and 'I begin to like it. I labour hard; and feel
myself coming forward, and I hope to be useful to my country. His addiction to the society
of players only increased the more as his practice at the bar would have been thought to engross
his attention. For the opening of the Canongate Theatre, on 9th December 1767, he had been
induced to write a prologue to the play of The Earl of Essex with which the newly licensed
house started its career. Part of the opening verses, as spoken by Ross, 'a very good copy,
very conciliatory' as the Earl of Mansfield styled them, runs as follows:--

    'This night, lov'd George's free enlightened age
    Bids Royal favour shield the Scottish stage;
    His Royal favour every bosom cheers;
    The drama now with dignity appears!
    Hard is my fate if murmurings there be
    Because that favour is announced by me.
    Anxious, alarm'd, and aw'd by every frown,
    May I entreat the candour of the Town?
    You see me here by no unworthy art;
    My all I venture where I've fix'd my heart.
    Fondly ambitious of an honest fame,
    My humble labours your indulgence claim.
    I wish to hold no Right but by your choice,
    I'll trust my patent to the Publick Voice.'

The effect of this, aided by friends properly planted in different parts of the theatre, Boswell
assures us was instantaneous and effectual. But the plaudits given would have been better in
a strictly professional court, and it led, we can see, to the association of Boswell with but
questionable society. 'The joyous crew of thunderers in the galleries,' as Robert Fergusson
describes them, the vulgar cits applying to their parched lips 'thirst quenching porter,' and
the notoriously irregular lives of the players, all these were ties and associations ill calculated
to appease the just indignation of his father or to add to forensic reputation in Edinburgh.
The Scottish Themis, says Scott, speaking from his own early experience of much higher literary
pursuits, is peculiarly jealous of any flirtation with the muses on the part of those who have
ranged themselves under her banners, and to them the least lingering look behind is fatal.
Little wonder, then, that the paternal anger was again roused, when 'the look behind' on his
part was coupled with the bitter remembrances of the laureate of the Soapers, of the Erskine
Correspondence, and his own long indulgence destined at last to bear such sorry fruits. I send
you a letter I had a few days ago. I have answered in my own style; I will be myself! How galling
it is to the friend of Paoli to be treated so!' He confesses his father has 'that Scots strength
of sarcasm which is peculiar to a North Briton,' and that time was when it would have depressed
him. But now he is firm, and, 'as my revered friend Mr Samuel Johnson used to say,' he feels
the privileges of an independent human being! To add to the confusion of Lord Auchinleck his
son had flung himself with all his enthusiasm into the famous Douglas Trial, the cause that
figures so much to the confusion, it is to be feared, of the general reader. Of this some full
account is necessary in order to explain that extraordinary trial,--perhaps the most protracted
and famous that ever came before a court,--which, dragging its slow length along through a
longer course than the Peloponnesian War, fills the shelves of legal libraries with eighteen
portly volumes of papers and reports. In the case Boswell really held no actual brief, though
were we to follow the impression he gives of his services we should infer he had been leading
counsel for the plaintiff, Douglas. 'With a labour of which few are capable,' says Bozzy, many
years after, 'he compressed the substance of the immense volumes of proofs and arguments into
an octavo pamphlet,' to which its author believed 'we may ascribe a great share of the popularity
on Mr Douglas's side.' Then he adds in a characteristic sentence, the meaning of which can
be fully appreciated only by those who have followed his contributions to magazines and the
press of the day, 'Mr Boswell took care to keep the newspapers and other publications incessantly
warm with various writings, both in prose and in verse, all tending to touch the heart and
rouse the parental and sympathetic feelings.'

Lady Jane Douglas, sister to Archibald, Duke of Douglas, had been privately married in 1746
to Colonel Steuart, afterwards Sir John Steuart of Grandtully. She was then in the forty-ninth
year of her age, and the marriage was not divulged till May 1748 to her brother who had not
been reconciled and had in consequence suspended her allowance. At Paris, in very humble lodgings,
she gave birth to male twins in the house of a Madame le Brun. The parents in 1749 returned
to Scotland where one of the children died; in 1761 the Duke of Douglas had himself followed.
Three claimants took the field, the Duke of Hamilton as heir male of line, the Earl of Selkirk
as heir of provision under former deeds, and Archibald Steuart or Douglas. Lady Jane died in
1753, and Sir John in 1764, both on their death-beds testifying to the legitimacy of their
surviving child. The Duke of Douglas, long prejudiced against this son's claim by the machinations
of the Hamiltons, had revoked the deed in their favour for a settlement executed in behalf
of his sister's son Archibald. But stories had become rife of that son being the child of a
Nicholas Mignon and Marie Guerin from whom he had been purchased, and an action to reduce service
on a plea of partus suppositio was instituted by the tutors of the Duke of Hamilton who was
then a minor. In France negociations were conducted, investigations made, and witnesses examined
by Burnet of Monboddo, Gardenstone, Hailes, and Eskgrove, and at last in July 1767 the Court
of Session issued its decision. Lord Dundas, the President, speaking first, and dwelling on
the age of Lady Jane, childless by a former marriage, the secrecy of the birth, and the intrinsic
valuelessness of death-bed depositions when set against pecuniary interests and family pride,
recorded his vote in favour of the Hamiltons. Six days were subsequently taken up with the
speeches of the other judges, and Monboddo, speaking last, voted for Douglas. The verdict was
seven on each side, and by the President's vote the case in Scotland was won by the pursuers.
Kames, Monboddo, and Lord Auchinleck, were in favour of the defender, Douglas.

The case was at once by him appealed to the House of Lords. Douglas was favoured in Scotland,
where for years the state of interest had been such that people in company used to bargain,
for the maintenance of peace, that no mention of this disturbing plea should be introduced.
So high did the feeling run in Edinburgh that the Hamilton party had been driven from their
apartments in Holyrood Palace and their property plundered. It was fortunate that this loophole
of escape to another court was opened, for before the Union such a cause would have led almost
to civil broil where the rival interests of the factions, through the ramifications of marriage
and other connections, extended so widely. In earlier days the strife would have ended by an
appeal to the sword on the causeway. All the court influence of the Hamiltons had been bent,
and bent in vain, to secure the exclusion from the bench of Lord Monboddo, counsel for Douglas,
and a duel had been fought between their agent Andrew Stuart and Thurlow the opposing advocate.
The excitement over the verdict of the Lords on Monday, February 27, 1769, was unprecedented.
In the Autobiography of Jupiter Carlyle is fortunately preserved the account of the scene,
witnessed by the doctor himself, who had been successful in gaining admission to the court,
where from nine in the morning till ten at night he remained, hemmed in by the crowd and overcome
with the oppressive heat. Mansfield spoke over one hour, and, on his appearing to faint, the
Chancellor rushed out for a bottle and glasses, the current of fresh air being felt by the
crowd as a relief. Finally the verdict of the Scottish courts was reversed without a division,
and a verdict found in favour of Douglas. Hume was not satisfied of the legitimacy of the pursuer,
neither was Lord Shelburne, and bribery on both sides had been extensively employed, over £100,000
having been calculated to have been spent in this protracted litigation.

It was on the evening of Thursday, shortly after eight, that the tidings reached Edinburgh
by express. The city was at once illuminated, and next morning Dundas on his way to the Parliament
House was threatened by a mob such as the town had not seen since the Porteous Riot. Two troops
of dragoons were drafted at once on the same day into the capital. As usually told, the story,
which is vouched for by Ramsay of Ochtertyre, is that the mob of the night before had been
headed by the excited Boswell, and that the windows of his father's house were smashed. Had
such been the case, it must have been by an oversight on the part of the mob, or some petulant
freak of the son, for on this occasion both Boswell and his father had for once been unanimous
in their belief in the legitimacy of Douglas. But there is no need for doubting Ramsay's assertion
that Lord Auchinleck had, with tears in his eyes, to implore President Dundas to commit his
son to the Tolbooth! This brochure was ordered by the Court of Session to be suppressed as
contempt of court, after it had run through three editions. No copy of this forlorn hope of
the book hunter has ever been found, though doubtless it lurks in some library where its want
of the writer's name upon the title page may have kept it from making its reappearance. Though
it bore no name, yet Boswell, when writing to Temple over it, speaks of 'My publisher Wilkie,'
and he seems to have been afraid that the copy sent by him should fall into the hands of strangers.
In the Gentleman's Magazine for July 1767, however, it is reviewed, but the value of the shilling
booklet does not seem to have impressed the critic. 'The Spanish Tale,' he says, 'supposes
the contests to be finally determined in favour of Don Ferdinand against the family of Ardivoso--but
the real question is still in dispute, having been removed by appeal to the House of Lords.
The pamphlet is zealously but feebly written: the author in some places affects the sublime,
and in some the pathetic; but these are the least tolerable parts of his performance.' Thus
airily does the reviewer dismiss Bozzy's determined effort to rouse, as he imagined, the parental
and sympathetical feelings, and it is clear at least that, however much its recovery would
add to the stock of harmless pleasure among professed Boswellians and collectors, its loss
cannot be said to have 'eclipsed the gaiety of nations.'

During the course of the trial the Tour in Corsica had been preparing. Early in 1768 it was
issued from the celebrated press of Robert and Andrew Foulis in Glasgow, and the publishers
were the Dillys in the Poultry, London, who were to act for him in all his literary undertakings
to the end of his life. It was a lull in the storm of the Douglas crisis, and the old judge,
eager enough to see his son associated with anything rational, was not unpleased with its appearing
as a pledge of better things. 'Jamie,' he admitted, 'had taen a toot on a new horn.' The account
of Corsica which had been made up from various sources of information ran to two hundred and
thirty-nine pages; but the real interest of the volume attaches to the Journal which occupies
a hundred and twenty. The translations from Seneca were done by Thomas Day, then very young,
the author of Sandford and Merton, and the creator of that constellation of excellence, Mr
Barlow, whose connection in any degree with Boswell is almost provocative of a smile. The peculiar
orthography of the writer is defended in the preface, for he allows himself not only such divergencies
as 'tremenduous,' 'authour,' 'ambassadour,' but also 'authentick' and 'panegyrick.' The dedication
of the first edition to Paoli was dated on his own birthday, and the book ran to a third edition
before the October of the same year. As purchased by the Dillys for a hundred guineas it would
appear to have been a profitable speculation, and the wide circulation to which it attained
we shall see was not merely due to accident but to more solid qualities. 'Pray read,' says
Horace Walpole to his friend Gray, 'the new account of Corsica. The title of this part of his
work is a dialogue between a Green Goose and a Hero.' But Gray was fastidious, in this case
blindly so. The merits of Goldsmith he could when dying perceive, but the rollicking humour
of Bozzy in this his first book was sealed to the recluse critic who 'never spoke out,' a thing
that never could be safely asserted of the author of the Tour in Corsica.

That 'authour,' however, was now bent on extracting the sanction of approval from his idol.
He hastened to London, heralding his arrival, as was his wont, by a deftly contributed paragraph
to the papers. The society journals of to-day have not improved on Boswell in their method
of obtaining first hand information; he was a most assiduous chronicler of his own actions,
and there can be no doubt that there is much Boswell 'copy' buried in the pages of the papers
of the time. Johnson was in Oxford at the time, and thither flew Bozzy to obtain the approval
of his labours and, with an eye to all future contingencies, his sanction for the publication
in his biography of all Johnson's letters to him. He became a sort of literary lion. 'I am
really the great man now,' he cries; 'I have David Hume in the forenoon, Mr Johnson in the
afternoon of the same day. When Bozzy indulges in 'the luxury of noble sentiments,' he is often
known to be courting an indemnity to his conscience for lax practice. Longfellow makes Miles
Standish in his belligerent mood turn in the Cæsar to where the thumb-marks in the margin proclaimed
that the battle was hottest; Boswell often indicates the decline and fall of the moralist by
an apparently undue vein of pietistic comments.

The next year was to witness the friend of Paoli in his most eccentric display--the Shakesperian
Festival inaugurated by Garrick at Stratford. By this ludicrous gathering it is that Boswell
is known to the mass of readers who have never cared to know more of 'Corsica Boswell' than
what they can gather from the lively picture of Macaulay. There he is known only as it were
in the gross, to which indeed, as Johnson said of Milton, the undramatic nature of the essayist's
mind was rather prone, careless as it was or incapable of the finer shades of character. Yet,
as we know, he was not the solitary masker or mummer in this extraordinary carnival, which
seems not creditable to the taste of its promoters, and resembles rather the entry of a travelling
circus into a provincial town than a serious commemoration of a great man. However, 'thither
Mr Boswell repaired with all the enthusiasm of a poetical mind;' as he informs us, 'such an
opportunity for the warbling of his Muse was not neglected.' On Wednesday, Sept. 6th, about
five in the morning, says The Scots Magazine for that month in its leading article, the performers
from Drury Lane paraded the streets of Stratford, and serenaded the ladies with a ballad by
Garrick, beginning

    'Ye Warwickshire lads and ye lasses
    See what at our Jubilee passes;
    Come revel away, rejoice and be glad,
    For the lad of all lads was a Warwickshire lad,
                  Warwickshire lad,
                  All be glad,
    For the lad of all lads was a Warwickshire lad.'

Guns were fired, the magistrates assembled, and there was a public breakfast in the town-hall.
In this number of the magazine there is a letter extending to seven columns from James Boswell,
Esq., on his return to London, after being 'much agitated' by 'this jubilee of genius.' He
describes it as 'truly an antique idea, a Grecian thought;' the oratorio at the great Stratford
church, with the music by Dr Arne, was, he admits, grand and admirable, but 'I could have wished
that prayers had been read, and a short sermon preached.' Then the performance of the dedication
ode by Garrick is described as 'noble and affecting, like an exhibition in Athens or Rome.'
Lord Grosvenor, at the close, went up to Garrick, 'and told him that he had affected his whole
frame, showing him his nerves and veins still quivering with agitation.' The masquerade our
traveller, as the 'travelled thane,' affects to regard complacently as an 'entertainment not
suited to the genius of the British nation, but to a warmer country, where the people have
a great flow of spirits, and a readiness at repartee.' Bozzy no doubt had seen the carnival
abroad, and his memories of sunnier skies would not find congenial atmosphere in the unpropitious
weather when the Avon rose with the floods of rain, the lower grounds were laid under water,
and a guinea for a bed was regarded as an imposition, though 'no one,' declares our hero, 'was
understood to come there who had not plenty of money'--their own or their father's, presumably.
The break up seems to have been effected in confusion, but the good-humoured mummer, taking
one consideration with another, compares it to eating an artichoke, where 'we have some fine
mouthfuls, but also swallow the leaves and the hair, which are confoundedly difficult of digestion.
After all, I am highly satisfied with my artichoke.'

He brought 'the warbling of his muse' with him. It is no better or worse than the staple. In
the character of a Corsican, he sings--

    'From the rude banks of Golo's rapid flood,
    Alas! too deeply tinged with patriot blood;
    O'er which, dejected, injur'd Freedom bends,
    And sighs indignant o'er all Europe sends,
    Behold a Corsican! In better days
    Eager I sought my country's fame to raise.
    Now when I'm exiled from my native land
    I come to join this classic festal band;
    To soothe my soul on Avon's sacred stream,
    And from your joy to catch a cheering gleam.'

After an apostrophe to happy Britons, on whose propitious isle propitious freedom ever deigns
to smile, he closes with an appeal--

    'But let me plead for liberty distress'd,
    And warm for her each sympathetic breast;
    Amidst the splendid honours which you bear,
    To save a sister island be your care;
    With generous ardour make us also free,
    And give to Corsica a noble Jubilee.'

Colman and Foote, of course, as comedians were there, but Goldsmith and Johnson shewed their
sense by their absence. The only trace of Davy's old master was found in a Coventry ribbon
put out by 'a whimsical haberdasher,' with the motto from Johnson's Prologue at the opening
of Drury Lane in 1747--'Each change of many colour'd life he drew.'

Boswell had a free hand as a writer for the London Magazine, in which he had a proprietary
interest. To it he contributed the following account, accompanied with a portrait--the source
of much of Macaulay's indictment. On the breast of his coat was sewed a Moor's head, the crest
of Corsica, surrounded with branches of laurel. He had also a cartridge-pouch, into which was
stuck a stiletto, and on his left side a pistol was hung upon the belt of his cartridge-pouch.
He had a fusee slung across his shoulder, wore no powder in his hair, but had it plaited at
full length with a knot of blue ribbons at the end of it. He had, by way of a staff, a very
curious vine all of one piece, emblematical of the sweet bard of Avon. The novelty of the Corsican
dress, its becoming appearance, and the character of the brave nation concurred to distinguish
the armed Corsican chief. He was first accosted by Mrs Garrick, with whom he had a good deal
of conversation. There was an admirable dialogue between Lord Grosvenor, in the character of
a Turk, and the Corsican on the different constitution of the countries so opposite to each
other,--Despotism and Liberty; and Captain Thomson, of the navy, in the character of an honest
tar, kept it up very well; he expressed a strong inclination to stand by the brave islanders.
Things had gone hard with Paoli since Boswell had been in the island. In spite of his Irish
brigades and his British volunteers, the overwhelming forces which the French were able to
put in the field, on the cession of the island to them by the Genoese, brought to an end the
stubborn resistance of the inhabitants. In the August of 1768 Boswell had raised in Scotland
a subscription of £700 for ordnance furnished by the Carron Iron Work Company, and in 1769
there had issued from the press a little duodecimo, 'British Essays in favour of the Brave
Corsicans: collected and published by James Boswell, Esq.' The papers are twenty in number,
some by himself, others by 'a gentleman whose name would do honour to any cause (whom we think
to have been Trecothick, the successor of Beckford, as Lord Mayor of London), and the greatest
part furnished by persons unknown to me.' They deal with the dangers to trade from France and
the Bourbon Compact, and point at the value of Corsica as a station superior to Gibraltar or
Minorca. One paper signed 'P. J.' has the undoubted Boswellian touch in dealing with the sailors
thrown idle by the cessation of the along-shore Mediterranean trade. 'None are less avaricious
than our honest tars, nor have they, in reality, any reason to be discontented. Every common
sailor has at least five and thirty shillings a month, over and above which he has his victuals
and drink, and that in great abundance. There is no such thing as stinting aboard a ship, unless
when reduced to difficulties by stormy weather. The crew have their three meals a day regularly,
and if they should be hungry between meals, there is always a biscuit or a luncheon of something
cold to be had.'

France had bought Corsica from Genoa in May 1768. Marboeuf, whom Boswell had found in the island,
had been superseded, and a descent of the French under Count Vaux with 20,000 men ended the
war. Paoli escaped to a ruinous convent on the shore, and, after lying there in concealment,
he embarked on an English vessel bound for Leghorn. Nothing could be more remote from the truth.
The Whigs were in favour of his views, and Burke, together with Frederick the Great, believed
our interests would suffer by the increase of French power in the Mediterranean. Shelburne,
for Chatham had resigned before November 1768, was the advocate of similar views, telling our
ambassador at Versailles to remonstrate with the French court, while Junius, in his letter
to the Duke of Grafton, told the country that Corsica would never have been invaded by the
French, but for the sight of a weak and distracted ministry. When the hand of Napoleon was
heavy on the Genoese, they remembered that their cession of the island had made their master,
by his birth at Ajaccio on August 15, 1769, a Frenchman. But the nation at the time of Boswell's
books was weary of war, and their influence, though great, was not visible in any actual political
results.

Boswell had expected to draw the sage on the subject of matrimony, having promised himself,
as he says, a good deal of instructive conversation on the conduct of the married state. But
the oracles were dumb. On his return to the north he was married, on the 25th November 1769,
to his cousin. We find in the Scots Magazine of that month the following extracts under the
list of marriages:--

    'At Lainshaw, in the shire of Air, JAMES BOSWELL, Esq., of
    Auchinleck, advocate, to MISS PEGGY MONTGOMERY, daughter of the
    late DAVID MONTGOMERY of Lainshaw, Esq.'

    'At Edinburgh, ALEXANDER BOSWELL, Esq., of Auchinleck, one of
    the Lords of Session and Justiciary, to Miss BETTY BOSWELL,
    second daughter of JOHN BOSWELL, Esq., of Balmuto, deceased.'

His father, now past sixty, had married again, and married a cousin for the second time, like
his son on the present occasion. That they were married on the same day and at different places
affords a clear indication that the father and son were no longer on the best of terms.

'Love,' wrote Madame de Stael, 'is with man a thing apart, 'tis woman's whole existence.' This
is not true at least of Boswell, for his love affairs fill as large a part in his life as in
that of Benjamin Constant. A most confused chapter withal, and one that luckily was not known
to Macaulay, whose colours would otherwise have been more brilliant. We find Bozzy paying his
addresses at one and the same time to at least eight ladies, exclusive as this is of sundry
minor divinities of a fleeting and more temporary nature not calling here for allusion. His
first divinity was the grass-widow of Moffat, and here Temple had been compelled to remonstrate
in spite of all the lover's philandering about her freedom from her husband, who had used her
ill. Were she unfaithful, he declares her worthy to be 'pierced with a Corsican dagger,' but
in March he has found it too much like a 'settled plan of licentiousness,' discovering her
to be an ill-bred rompish girl, debasing his dignity, without refinement, though handsome and
lively. Then there is the quarrel and the reconciliation, she vowing she loved him more than
ever she had done her husband, but meeting with opposition from his brother David and others,
who furnished the love-sick heart of her adorer with examples of her faithlessness such as
made him recoil. He vows now his frailties are at an end, and he resolves to turn out an admirable
member of society. He had broken with her as with the gardener's daughter a year ago--an everlasting
lesson to him.

By March 1767 the reigning favourite was Miss Bosville of Yorkshire. But his lot being cast
in Scotland would be an objection to the beauty; then we hear of a young lady in the vicinity
of whose claims Lord Auchinleck approved, because their lands lay happily together for family
extension. She was just eighteen, pious, good-tempered and genteel, and for four days she had
been on a visit to 'the romantick groves' of his ancestors, when suddenly the scene is changed
for the Sienese signora of whom we heard upon his travels. 'My Italian angel,' he cries, 'is
constant; I had a letter from her but a few days ago, which made me cry.' He conjures his friend
Temple to come to him, and 'on that Arthur Seat where our youthful fancies roved abroad shall
we take counsel together.' The local divinity we learn is Miss Blair of Adamtown; he has been
drinking her health, and aberrations from sobriety and virtue have ensued, but he thought things
would be brought to a climax were Temple to visit her. A long letter of commission follows,
the envoy is instructed to appear as his old friend, praising him to Miss Blair for his good
qualities. Temple is adjured to dwell upon his odd, inconstant, impetuous nature, how he is
accustomed to women of intrigue, and he is to ask of the fair one if she does not think there
is insanity in the Boswell family. She is to hear of his travels, his acquaintance with foreign
princes, Voltaire and Rousseau, his desire to have a house of his own; and then he diverges
into practicality when he desires his friend to 'study the mother,' and take notes of all that
passed, as it might have the effect of fixing the fate of the lover. Temple, it may be imagined,
did not interpret his commission in such a literal spirit, and inconstancy and insanity could
hardly be recommendations in Miss Blair's eyes. That such should be the case,--outside the
confessions of Mr Rochester in Jane Eyre,--would appear to the commissioner an obvious fact.

A silence followed on Temple's departure from the divinity. Boswell dreaded a certain nabob,
'a man of copper,' as his rival. Then he believed the fair offended by his own Spanish stateliness
and gravity; and again a letter, 'written with all the warmth of Italian affection,' restores
the signora to the first place, from which she is deposed by a note from Miss Blair, explaining
that his letter had been delayed a week at the Ayr post-office. Then fresh ravings, clouded
by the belief that she is cunning and sees his weakness, for three people at Ayr have assured
him she is a jilt, and he is shocked at the risk he has run, a warning for the future to him
against 'indulging the least fondness for a Scotch lass.' He has, he feels, a soul of a more
Southern frame, and some Englishwoman ought to be sensible of his merit, though the Dutch translator
of his Tour, Mademoiselle de Zuyl, has been writing to him. Random talking is his dread, he
must guard against it, and Miss Blair revives. 'I must have her learn the harpsichord,' he
cries, 'and French; she shall be one of the finest women in the island.' Later on they have
had a long meeting, of which space only prevents the inimitable reproduction,--'squeezing and
kissing her fine hand, while she looked at me with those beautiful black eyes.' He meets her
at the house of Lord Kames, he sees her at Othello--she was in tears at the affecting scenes,
and 'rather leaned' to him (he thought), and 'the jealous Moor described my own soul.' But
true love did never yet run smooth; he has been 'as wild as ever. Trust me in time coming;
I will give you my word of honour.' Then--curious psychological trait--'to-morrow I shall be
happy with my devotions.'

By the beginning of 1768 he fears all is over. A rumour--a false one as it proved--had reached
him that the divinity was to be married to Sir Alexander Gilmour, M.P. for Midlothian. He gets
friendly with the nabob, warms him with old claret, and bewails with him their hapless devotion.
They agree to propose in turn, and, being in turn rejected, he feels sure that 'a Howard, or
some other of the noblest in the kingdom' is to be his fate. The Dutch translator again holds
the field, to be soon dismissed for her frivolity and her infidelity. Then Miss Dick of Prestonfield
reigns with solid qualifications--she lacks a fortune, but is fine, young, healthy, and amiable.
A visit to Holland, to finally decide on the Mademoiselle's claims, was proposed, but his father,
warned in time, would not consent. Temple, too, was against this, and 'Temple thou reasonest
well,' he cries, and thinks his abnegation will be a solace to his worthy father on his circuit.
Freed now from Miss Blair and the Dutch divinity, he is devoted to la belle Irlandaise, 'just
sixteen, with the sweetest countenance and a Dublin education.' Never till now had he been
so truly in love; every flower is united, and she is a rose without a thorn. Her name 'Mary
Anne' he has carved upon a tree, and cutting off a lock of her hair she had promised Bozzy
not to marry a lord before March, or forget him. 'Sixteen,' he says; 'innocence and gaiety
make me quite a Sicilian swain.'

His book had dissipated his professional energies, and he had even taken to gaming. Incidentally
we learn that he had lost more than he could pay, and that Mr Sheridan had advanced enough
to clear him, on a promise that he should not engage in play for three years. Mary Anne has
added to his complications by her forgetfulness, and the local candidate Miss Blair reappears.
Favoured as she was by his father, it would have been easy to bring things to a climax, but
on her mother's part there was some not unnatural coldness over his indiscreet talk about his
love of the heiress. Bozzy was a convivial knight-errant in what was called 'Saving the ladies.'
At clubs and gatherings any member would toast his idol in a bumper, and then another champion
would enter his peerless Dulcinea in two bumpers, to be routed by the original toper taking
off four. The deepest drinker 'saved his lady,' as the phrase ran; though, says George Thomson
speaking of the old concerts in St Cecilia's Hall, at the foot of Niddry's Wynd, which were
maintained by noblemen and gentlemen, the bold champion had often considerable difficulty in
saving himself from the floor, in his efforts to regain his seat! Miss Burnet of Monboddo,
celebrated by Burns, and Miss Betty Home, he describes as the reigning beauties of the time
deeply involved in thus causing the fall of man. Boswell was not behind, and he ascribes his
aberrations to the 'drinking habit which still prevails in Scotland,' renewing good intentions,
only to be broken in the same letter that reveals the Moffat lady again, 'like a girl of eighteen,
with the finest black hair,' whom he loves so much that he is in a fever. 'This,' he adds truly
enough, 'is unworthy of Paoli's friend.'

The May of 1769 saw him in Ireland, where his relations in County Down secured his entry into
the best society. A dispatch to the Public Advertizer, of July 7th, informed the public that
'James Boswell, Esq., dined with His Grace the Duke of Leinster at his seat at Carton. He went
by special invitation to meet the Lord Lieutenant; came next morning with his Excellency to
the Phoenix Park, where he was present at a review of Sir Joseph Yorke's dragoons; he dined
with the Lord Mayor, and is now set out on his return to Scotland.' The belle Irlandaise had
forgotten him, but it is to this occasion that we may refer some verses that were published
by his son Sir Alexander. Chambers thinks they refer to his cousin, but the general belief
tends in the direction of the notorious Margaret Caroline Rudd, the associate in later years
of the brothers Perreau, who were executed for forgery. In the Life of Johnson we find Boswell,
in 1776, expressing to his companion a desire to be introduced to this person, so celebrated
for her address and insinuation, and later on he is shewn, on his own confession, to have visited
her, 'induced by the fame of her talents and irresistible power of fascination,' and to have
sent an account of this interview to his wife, but to have offered its perusal first, 'as it
appeared to me highly entertaining,' to Temple, who was indignant over it. It would appear,
then, that Boswell did not reveal to Johnson his former flirtation with this notorious woman,
but we think that the obvious marks of the brogue in the verses shew conclusively that either
the feeling was imitative and based on an earlier Irish song, or that the verses were judged
by Boswell's son, not too devoted, as we shall find, to his father's memory, to be free from
offence.

    'O Larghan Clanbrassil, how sweet is thy sound,
    To my tender remembrance as Love's sacred ground;
    For there Marg'ret Caroline first charm'd my sight,
    And fill'd my young heart with a flutt'ring delight.

    When I thought her my own, ah! too short seemed the day
    For a jaunt to Downpatrick, or a trip on the sea;
    To express what I felt, then all language was vain,
    'Twas in truth what the poets have studied to feign.

    But, too late, I found even she could deceive,
    And nothing was left but to sigh, weep, and rave;
    Distracted, I flew from my dear native shore,
    Resolved to see Larghan Clanbrassil no more.

    Yet still in some moments enchanted I find
    A ray of her fondness beams soft on my mind;
    While thus in bless'd fancy my angel I see,
    All the world is a Larghan Clanbrassil to me.'

On this journey with Boswell there was a Margaret--his own cousin, and it is curious to find
him in this mood of sentimental philandering, were it no worse, when we have now to see Bozzy
at the end of his love affairs. When his great work was completed in 1791, its author contributed
to the European Magazine for May and June a little sketch of himself, in order to give a fillip
to its circulation. There he describes jauntily his Irish tour, and after what we know of his
erratic course, it is delightful to come across this sage chronicler of his dead wife, circulating
testimonials to her excellences, to which no doubt he was oblivious in her lifetime. 'They
had,' he writes, 'from their earliest years lived in the most intimate and unreserved friendship.'
His love of the fair sex has been already mentioned (he had quoted the song of 'the Soapers'
in our first chapter), and she was the constant yet prudent and delicate confidante of all
his 'egarements du coeur et de l'esprit.' This we may doubt, and the gracefully allusive French
quotation reminds us of Mr Pepys' use of that language when his wife was in his mind. This
jaunt was the occasion of Mr Boswell's resolving at last to engage himself in that connection
to which he had always declared himself averse. In short, he determined to become a married
man. He requested her, with her excellent judgment and more sedate manners, to do him the favour
of accepting him with all his faults, and though he assures his readers he had uniformly protested
that a large fortune had been with him a requisite in the fair, he was yet 'willing to waive
that in consideration of her peculiar merit!'

Hearts are caught in the rebound, and Bozzy had solaced his loss of the belle Irlandaise with
the sympathy of his fellow-traveller. Having let his fancies roam so far abroad as Siena and
Holland, the lover had now returned like the bird at evening to the nest from which it flew.
She had no fortune, and 'the penniless lass wi' the lang pedigree,' related as she was to the
Eglintoun branch and other high families, had not in the eyes of his father the landed qualifications
of Miss Blair, whose property lay so convenient for the extension of the Boswell acres. This
may have been the cause of the paternal anger and the separate marriages on the same day. The
wives of literary men have ever been a fruitful source of disquisition to the admirers of their
heroes, and Terentia, Gemma Donati, and Anne Hathaway, have divided the biographers of Cicero,
Dante, and Shakespeare. To us it seems that, like his father, she had much to bear, hampered
by their domestic difficulties through her husband's constant dependence on that father for
his income, and eyed with undeserved suspicion by the judge and his second wife as a Mordecai
in the gate, penniless and yet supposed to be the cause of Boswell's pecuniary embarrassments
and indiscretions. The marriage was deferred till after the Stratford Jubilee, and the newly
married pair took up their house in Chessel's Buildings in the Canongate. For a year and a
half after his marriage his correspondence with Johnson underwent an entire cessation, and
in the August of 1771 General Paoli made a tour in Scotland, which, for a time, called forth
the best organizing abilities of his friend. From the London Magazine of the day, in an account
contributed by our hero, we learn how Paoli had paid 'a visit to James Boswell, Esq., who was
the first gentleman of this country who visited Corsica, and whose writings have made the brave
islanders and their general properly known over Europe.' Boswell waited on the exile and the
Polish Ambassador at Ramsay's Inn, at the foot of St Mary's Wynd, visiting with them Linlithgow
and Carron, 'where the general had a prodigious pleasure in viewing the forge where were formed
the cannon and war-like stores' sent to Corsica by his Scottish admirers. At Glasgow they were
entertained by the professors, and saw 'the elegant printing of the Scottish Stephani, the
Messrs Foulis,' and no doubt their guide managed to remind their excellencies of a certain
Tour in Corsica emanating thence. Auchinleck was visited to 'the joy of my worthy father and
me at seeing the Corsican Hero in our romantick groves,' as he tells Garrick, and on their
return to Glasgow the freedom of the city was conferred on Paoli by Lord Provost Dunlop.[A]
At Edinburgh 'the general slept under the roof of his ever grateful friend.' The whole forms
a favourable specimen of Boswell's organizing capacities, and viewed in relation to the friendly
intercourse he is found maintaining with prominent and influential persons, our regret is but
increased that in the interests of his wife and children his abilities were not exercised in
a more strictly professional channel.

London he visited in the March of 1772 over an appeal to the Lords from the Court of Session.
Johnson was now in good health, and was eager 'to see Beattie's College.' In the Scots Magazine
for February 1773 there is mentioned a masked ball, attended by seventy persons of quality,
given in Edinburgh by Sir Alexander Macdonald and his wife, Miss Bosville of Yorkshire, one
of Boswell's loves. Croker says that the masquerade for which he was rallied by Johnson was
given by the Dowager Countess of Fife, and that Bozzy went as a dumb conjurer; but from the
expression of the Magazine, 'an entertainment little known in this part of the Kingdom,' coupled
with the words employed by Johnson, there can be no doubt that Croker is wrong, and that the
host on this occasion was the churlish chief, whose inhospitable ways they were to experience
in Skye. He was now near the great honour of his life, admission to that Literary Club, of
which, said Sir William Jones, 'I will only say that there is no branch of human knowledge
on which some of our members are not capable of giving information.' Never was honour better
deserved or better repaid. Without his record the fame of that club would have passed away,
surviving at best in some sort of hazy companionship with the Kit-Cat, Button's, Will's, and
other clubs and assemblies. Never was there a club of which each member was better qualified
to take care of his own fame with posterity. None of Johnson's associates would have hesitated
in declaring an extended date of renown for the Rambler; and perhaps he himself would have
staked the reputation assured, as Cowper said, by the tears of bards and heroes in order to
immortalize the dead, on his Rasselas or the Dictionary. Yet he and most members of that club,
apart from the record of Boswell, would be but names to the literary antiquary, and be by the
mass of readers entirely forgotten.

He had canvassed the members. Johnson wrote, on April 23rd, to Goldsmith, who was in the chair
that evening, to consider Boswell as proposed by himself in his absence. On the night of the
ballot, April 30th, Boswell dined at Beauclerk's, where, after the company had gone to the
club, he was left till the fate of his election should be announced. Yet even from this rebuff
he managed to deftly extract a compliment. Beauclerk, the doctor said, had been very earnest
for the admission, and Beauclerk, replied Boswell, 'has a keenness of mind which is very uncommon.'
The witty Topham, along with Reynolds, Garrick, and others, is immortalized in the pages of
the man who was not thought by the wits of Gerrard Street fit for their club.

    [A] By the Town Clerk Depute of Glasgow, R. Renwick,
    Esq., we are informed that no notice of this enrolment of
    General Paoli was entered at the time, pursuant to the custom of
    the Register over honorary burgesships.

CHAPTER V

TOUR TO THE HEBRIDES. 1773

    'Breaking the silence of the seas
    Among the farthest Hebrides.'--WORDSWORTH.

When Boswell was leaving London in May he called, for the last time, upon Goldsmith, round
whom the clouds of misfortune were fast settling, and who was planning a Dictionary of Arts
and Sciences as a means of extrication from his embarrassments. In such circumstances, it was
not unnatural for Goldsmith to revert to his own past travels, and to the reflection that he
was unlikely again to set out upon them, unless sheltered like Johnson behind a pension. He
assured Boswell that he would never be able to lug the dead weight of the Rambler through the
Highlands. The enthusiastic pioneer, however, was loud in the praises of his companion; Goldsmith
thought him not equal to Burke, 'who winds into a subject like a serpent.' The other, with
more than wonted irrelevance, maintained that Johnson was 'the Hercules who strangled serpents
in his cradle;' and with these characteristic utterances they parted, never again to meet.
Throughout his great work, Boswell shews ever a curious depreciation of Goldsmith. Rivalry
for the good graces of their common friend Johnson, as Scott thought, and the fear of his older
acquaintance as the possible biographer made him suspicious of the merits of the poet, who
figures in the pages of Boswell as a foil for his gently patronizing tone,--'honest Goldsmith.'

The tour to the Hebrides had been a project which had occurred to them in the first days of
their friendship. The Description of the Western Isles of Scotland (1703) by Martin, had been
put into Johnson's hands at a very early age by his father; and, though for long he had disappointed
the expectations of his friend, he had talked of it in the spring of this year in such a way
as to lead Boswell to write to Beattie, Robertson, Lord Elibank, and the chiefs of the Macdonalds
and the Macleods, for invitations such as he could shew the doctor. Mrs Thrale also and others
were induced to forward the scheme, and at last the Rambler set out on the 6th day of August.
He was nine days upon the road, including two at Newcastle, where he picked up his friend Scott
(Lord Stowell), and after passing Berwick, Dunbar and Prestonpans, the coach late in the evening
deposited Johnson at Boyd's inn, The White Horse, in the Canongate,--the rendezvous of the
old Hanoverian faction,--which occupied the site of the present building from which this volume,
one hundred and twenty-three years later, is published. On the Saturday evening of his arrival
a note was dispatched by him to Boswell, who flew to him, and 'exulted in the thought that
I now had him actually in Caledonia.'

Arm in arm they walked up the High Street to Boswell's house in James's Court, to which he
had removed from the Canongate. The first impression of the Scottish capital was not pleasing,
for at ten the beat of the city drums was heard; and, amid cries of gardy loo, what Oldham
euphemistically calls 'the perils of the night,' were thrown over the windows down on the pavement,
in the absence of covered sewers. When Captain Burt before this time had been in Edinburgh,
a 'caddie' had preceded him on a scouting expedition with cries of 'haud your han',' and among
flank and rear discharges he had passed to his quarters. A zealous Scotsman, as Boswell says,
could have wished the doctor to be less gifted with the sense of smell, however much the sense
of the breadth of the street and the height of the buildings impressed him. His wife had tea
waiting, and they sat till two in the morning. Forbes of Pitsligo breakfasted with them, and
the host's heart was delighted by the 'little infantine noise' which his child Veronica made,
with the appearance of listening to the great man. The fond father with a cheerful recklessness,
not realized we fear, declared she should have for this five hundred pounds of additional fortune.

The best society in the capital was invited to meet Johnson at breakfast and dinner--Robertson,
Hailes, Gregory, Blacklock, and others. James's Court was rather a distinguished part of the
city, and an improvement upon the former quarters in Chessel's Buildings. The inhabitants,
says Robert Chambers, took themselves so seriously as to keep a clerk to record their proceedings,
together with a scavenger of their own, and held among themselves their social meetings and
balls. Hume had occupied part of the house before Johnson's visit, though three years had passed
since he had moved to the new town into St David Street. Writing from his old house to Adam
Smith, he is glad to 'have come within sight of you, and to have a view of Kirkcaldy from my
windows;' the study of the historian, to which he turned fondly from the Parisian salons, is
represented in Guy Mannering as the library of Pleydell with its fine view from the windows,
'which commanded that incomparable prospect of the ground between Edinburgh and the sea, the
Firth of Forth with its islands, and the varied shore of Fife to the northward.' Bozzy may
have been reticent about the former tenant; he was 'not clear that it was right in me to keep
company with him,' though he thought the man greater or better than his books. No word then
was sent to him, nor to Adam Smith across the Forth to Kirkcaldy. They visited the Parliament
House, where Harry Erskine was presented to Johnson, and, having made his bow, slipped a shilling
into Boswell's hand, 'for the sight of his bear.' Holyrood and the University were inspected,
and as they passed up the College-Wynd, where Goldsmith in his medical student days in Edinburgh
had lived, Scott, as a child of two years, may have seen the party. On the 18th they set out
from the capital, with the Parthian shot from Lord Auchinleck to a friend--'there's nae hope
for Jamie, man; Jamie is gaen clean gyte. What do you think, man? A dominie, an auld dominie;
he keepit a schule and ca'ad it an acaadamy!' No more bitter taunt could have been levelled
against Johnson, with his memories of Edial, near Lichfield; readers who may remember the munificent
manner in which the heritors of their day had provided for Ruddiman, Michael Bruce, and others,
will see the contempt that the old judge had felt for the past of the Rambler. Johnson had
left behind him in a drawer a volume of his diary; and, as this would have been excellent copy
for his projected Life, we feel the temptation to which Boswell was exposed. She did not seem
quite easy when we left her; but away we went!'

The character-sketch of Johnson, given at the opening of the book is
full of fine shading and touches; but the traveller who now follows them
on the journey will hardly, in comparison with his own tourist attire,
recognise what in 1773 was thought fit and convenient costume. He had rather too little, than too much
    prudence; and, his imagination being lively, he often said
    things of which the effect was very different from the
    intention. For this the valiant
Rambler had provided a pair of pistols, powder, and a quantity of
bullets, but the assurance of their needlessness had induced him to
leave them behind with the precious diary in the keeping of Mrs Boswell.

Such a tour was then a feat for a man of sixty-four, in a country which, to the Englishman
of his day, was as unknown as St Kilda is now to the mass of Scotchmen. The London citizen
who, says Lockhart, 'makes Loch Lomond his wash-pot, and throws his shoe over Ben Nevis,' can
with difficulty imagine a journey in the Hebrides with rainy weather, in open boats, or upon
horseback over wild moorland and morasses, a journey that even to Voltaire sounded like a tour
to the North Pole. Smollett, in Humphrey Clinker, says the people at the other end of the island
knew as little of Scotland as they did of Japan, nor was Charing Cross, witness as it did the
greatest height of 'the tide of human existence,' then bright with the autumnal trips of circular
tours and Macbrayne steamers. The feeling for scenery, besides, was in its infancy, nor was
it scenery but men and manners that were sought by our two travellers, to whom what would now
be styled the Wordsworthian feeling had little or no interest. Gibbon has none of it, and Johnston
laughed at Shenstone for not caring whether his woods and streams had anything good to eat
in them, 'as if one could fill one's belly with hearing soft murmurs or looking at rough cascades.'
Fleet Street to him was more delicious than Tempe, and the bare scent of the pastoral draws
an angry snort from the critic. Boswell, in turn, confesses to no relish for nature; he admits
he has no pencil for visible objects, but only for varieties of mind and esprit. Writing from
Edinburgh, he laments that 'no grove or brook lend their music to cheer the stranger,' while
at Leyden, 'wherever I turned my eye, fine houses, elegant gardens, statues, grottoes, presented
themselves.' Even Gray found that Mount Cenis carried the permission mountains have of being
frightful rather too far, and Wordsworth and Shelley would have resented the Johnsonian description
of a Highland Ben as 'a considerable protuberance.' Indeed, Goldsmith's bare mention of that
object, so dear to Pope and his century,--'grottoes'--reminds us we are not yet in the modern
world. Yet the boldness of the sage, and the cheerfulness of Boswell, carried them through
it all. 'I should,' wrote the doctor to Mrs Thrale, 'have been very sorry to have missed any
of the inconveniences, to have had more light or less rain, for their co-operation crowded
the scene and filled the mind.'

Crossing the Firth, after landing on Inchkeith, they arrived at St Andrews which had long been
an object of interest to Johnson. They passed Leuchars, Dundee, and Aberbrothick. The ruins
of ecclesiastical magnificence would seem to have touched a hidden chord in Boswell's past,
for we find him on the road talking of the 'Roman Catholick faith,' and leading his companion
on transubstantiation; but this, being 'an awful subject, I did not then press Dr Johnson upon
it.' Montrose was reached, and at the inn the waiter was called 'rascal' by the Rambler for
putting sugar into the lemonade with his fingers, to the delight of Bozzy who rallied him into
quietness by the assurance that the landlord was an Englishman. Monboddo was then passed, where
'the magnetism of his conversation drew us out of our way,' though the prompt action of Boswell
as agent in advance really was the source of their invitation. Burnet was one of the best scholars
in Scotland, and 'Johnson and my lord spoke highly of Homer.' All his paradoxes about the superiority
of the ancients, the existence of men with tails, slavery and other institutions were vented,
but all went well. The decrease of learning in England, which Johnson lamented, was met by
Monboddo's belief in its extinction in Scotland, but Bozzy, as the old High School of Edinburgh
boy, put in a word for that place of education and brought him to confess that it did well.

The New Inn at Aberdeen was full. But the waiter knew Boswell by his likeness to his father
who put up here on circuit--the only portrait, we believe, there is of Lord Auchinleck--and
accommodation was provided. They visited King's College, where Boswell 'stepped into the chapel
and looked at the tomb of its founder, Bishop Elphinstone, of whom I shall have occasion to
write in my history of James IV., the patron of my family.' The freedom of the city was conferred
on Johnson. Was this an honour, or an excuse for a social glass among the civic Solons of an
unreformed corporation? The latter may be the case, when we reflect that none of the four universities
thought of giving him an honorary degree, though Beattie at this time had received the doctorate
in laws from Oxford, and Gray some years before this had declined the offer from Aberdeen.
No negative inference can be established from the contemporary notices in the Aberdeen Journal
over the visit. Every paragraph is contemptuous in its tone; and till October 4th no notice
is taken of the honour, when 'a correspondent says he is glad to find that the city of Aberdeen
has presented Dr Johnson with the freedom of that place, for he has sold his freedom on this
side of the Tweed for a pension.' The definition of oats in the Dictionary is brought up against
its author, and Bozzy is also attacked in a doggerel epigram on his Corsican Tour and his system
of spelling. But the doctor easily maintained his conversational supremacy over his academic
hosts, who 'started not a single mawkin for us to pursue.'

Ellon, Slains Castle, and Elgin were visited. They passed Gordon Castle at Fochabers, drove
over the heath where Macbeth met the witches, 'classic ground to an Englishman,' as the old
editor of Shakespeare felt, and reached Nairn, where now they heard for the first time the
Gælic tongue,--'one of the songs of Ossian,' quoth the justly incredulous doctor,--and saw
peat fires. At Fort George they were welcomed by Sir Eyre Coote. The old military aspirations
of Bozzy flared up and were soothed: 'for a little while I fancied myself a military man, and
it pleased me.' As they left, the commander reminded them of the hardships by the way, in return
as Boswell interposed for the rough things Johnson had said of Scotland. 'You must change your
name, sir,' said Sir Eyre. 'Ay, to Dr M'Gregor,' replied Bozzy. The notion of the lexicographer's
assuming the forbidden name of the bold outlaw, with 'his foot upon his native heath,' is rather
comic, though later on we find him striding about with a target and broad sword, and a bonnet
drawn over his wig! Though both professed profuse addiction to Jacobite sentiments, it is curious
no mention is made of Culloden. It may be that Boswell, who some days later weeps over the
battle, may have diplomatically avoided it, or it may have been dark as their chaise passed
it, though it is not impossible that Boswell, who at St Andrews had not known where to look
for John Knox's grave, and has no mention of Airsmoss where Cameron fell in his own parish
of Auchinleck, was ignorant of the site. From their inn at Inverness he wrote to Garrick gleefully
over his tour with Davy's old preceptor, and then begged permission to leave Johnson for a
time, 'that I might run about and pay some visits to several good people,' finding much satisfaction
in hearing every one speak well of his father.

On Monday, August 30, they began their equitation; 'I would needs make a word too.' They took
horses now, a third carried his man Ritter, and a fourth their portmanteaus. The scene by Loch
Ness was new to the sage, and he rises in his narrative a little to it and the 'limpid waters
beating their bank, and waving their surface by a gentle agitation.' Through Glenshiel, Glenmorison,
Auchnasheal, they passed on to the inn at Glenelg. They made beds for themselves with fresh
hay, and, like Wolfe at Quebec, they had their 'choice of difficulties;' but the philosophic
Rambler maintained they might have been worse on the hillside, and buttoning himself up in
his greatcoat he lay down, while Boswell had his sheets spread on the hay, and his clothes
and greatcoat laid over him by way of blankets.

Next day they got into a boat for Skye, reaching Armidale before one. Here occurred one of
the dramatic episodes of the book. Sir Alexander Macdonald, husband of Boswell's Yorkshire
cousin Miss Bosville, and the host at the masquerade in February, was on his way to Edinburgh,
and met them at the house of a tenant, 'as we believe,' wrote Johnson to Mrs Thrale, 'that
he might with less reproach entertain us meanly. Boswell was very angry, and reproached him
with his improper parsimony. Boswell has some thoughts of collecting the stories and making
a novel of his life.' In the first edition of his book something strong had clearly been written,
but it was wisely suppressed at the last moment when the book was bound, for the new pages
are but clumsily pasted on the guard between leaves 166 and 169. The first edition had accordingly
this account, which was even toned down in the next. The old days of feudal power were merging
in the industrial, the chiefs were now landlords and exacting ones. Emigration was rife, and
the pages of the Scots Magazine of the time dwell much on this. A month before, four hundred
men had left Strathglass and Glengarry; in June eight hundred had sailed from Stornoway; Lochaber
sent four hundred, 'the finest set of fellows in the Highlands, carrying £6000 in ready cash
with them. The extravagant rents exacted by the landlords is the sole cause given for this
emigration which seems to be only in its infancy.' The high price of provisions and the decrease
of the linen trade in the north of Ireland sent eight hundred this year from Stromness, when
we find the linen dealers thanking Boswell's old rival, as he supposed, with Miss Blair, Sir
Alexander Gilmour, M.P. for Midlothian, for his efforts at providing better legislation.

Rasay is one of the happiest descriptions in the tour. 'This,' said Johnson, 'is truly the
patriarchal life; this is what we came to find.' They heard from home and had letters. Honest
Mr M'Queen observed that I was in high glee, "my governor being gone to bed."

Dunvegan and the castle of the Macleods received them in hospitable style. 'Boswell,' said
Johnson, in allusion to Sir Alexander's stinted ways, 'we came in at the wrong end of the island;'
the memories of their visit had not been forgotten when Scott was there on his Lighthouse Tour
in 1814. The Rambler 'had tasted lotus, and was in danger of forgetting he was ever to depart.'

Landing at Strolimus, they proceeded to Corrichatachin, 'with but a
single star to light us on our way.' There took place the scene that,
though familiar, must be given in the writer's own words. A man who, for
artistic setting and colour, could write it deliberately down even to
his own disadvantage, and who could appeal to serious critics and
readers of discernment and taste against the objections which he saw
himself would be raised from the misinterpretation of others, is a
figure not to be met with every day in literature. Some would have taken this as a
    divine interposition.'

Such is the extraordinary confession. St Augustine, Rousseau, De
Quincey, have not quite equalled this. He found it had been made the
subject of serious criticism and ludicrous banter. But his one object,
as he tells 'serious criticks,' has been to delineate Johnson's
character, and for this purpose he appeals from Philip drunk to Philip
sober, and to the approbation of the discerning reader. Later on, he has
laid the flattering unction to his heart, and has extracted comfort
from the soul of things evil. Note is everlasting
    that, with playlet, and if he had wear away slightly of corrosion;
    but work of which i have attempt to rectify was in all exceedance
    is invented in his first racket on.... thus lamely is them is leave on gray,
    it is not have split like enactment. Work, with have begin it
    ceased everything with novelist. The property
of Pandarus and Thersites are promising plenty; but, that he turn weary permanence,
nothing after arch or two, if he thinks them descend; and tour is
nothing but in bongo and brass, journey, and fear. Head LBJ resemble
he has another care has notched of Note. Cressida is characteristical Impressions,
and it is not have penalize.
Hitherto, after all, to no Locksley'hastings, and that there look
he ceased he is in point of it is the abstractor, that i undertake it take
that, has below which is many content put partly has bury. Enough, if
i have remodelled at tour, them ceased the self, improved at those which were
begin and he leave unfinished days, as Weeks, book, Fool, and Thersites, and
append that of Andromache. With that, i make, with masterpiece, to connection
has reported at light, remove them spent from result where they were inartificially
rise; and though it was impossible to them all unplowed creations,
the light to he must be only like year but he have sometimes drawn in
art, hitherto i have thus be tell them spent, that there is a connection
of them dramatize he thinks of another, and arrangement: no jump it
from Ilion to cabana, and dorsum has again, in grandsire, but has a
clip is let for sign. If i necessitate not state that i have processed speech,
which before obsolete; or i am willing comparisons at admit them, that
equally but i have frequently has pull his masterpiece nearer-- with
comparisons, and thus it have sometimes has adjust my group to his;
and accordingly, and he is the usage is not truly saturated as he
is independent days.

"The self who take he sees in shaft are right creations. Both has
notched of them look at day to have absolutely understand or it matt-up
his result, and both of them have write glorious like fool. Their congratulations
is the tour has instituted of lockhart You think on genu before
god. But theirs is the book.

 It may not be quite impossible that, mingling with the
brilliant essayist's ill-will to the politics of the travellers, there
was an unconscious strain of resentment at the contemptuous way in which
his relations had been tossed by the doctor, and that Bozzy's own
subsequent denunciations of the abolitionists and the slave trade had
edged the memories in the mind of the son of Zachary Macaulay. I should have been mortified at being thus coldly received,
    had I not been consoled by the obliging attention of the Duke.

    'Monday, October 25. I presented Dr Johnson to the Duke of
    Argyll ... the duke placed Dr Johnson next himself at table. Bozzy was by birth a
gentleman, and there is not the slightest indication here of any want of
breeding or taste on his side.

At Dumbarton, steep as is the incline, Johnson ascended it. The Saracen's Head, which had welcomed
Paoli before now, received the travellers. There was now no more sullen fuel or peat. 'Here
am I,' soliloquized the Rambler, with a leg upon each side of the grate, 'an Englishman, sitting
by a coal fire.'

'Jamie's aff the hooks noo;' said the old laird, as they drew near Auchinleck, 'he's bringing
doon an auld dominie.' Boswell begged of his companion to avoid three topics of discourse on
which he knew his father had fixed opinions--Whiggism, Presbyterianism, and Sir John Pringle.
For a time all went well. They walked about 'the romantick groves of my ancestors,' and Bozzy
discoursed on the antiquity and honourable alliances of the family, and on the merits of its
founder, Thomas, who fell with King James at Flodden. But the storm broke, over the judge's
collection of medals, where that of Oliver Cromwell brought up Charles the First and Episcopacy.
All must regret that the writer's filial feelings withheld the 'interesting scene in this dramatick
sketch.' It is the one lacuna in the book. Sir John Pringle, as the middle term in the debate,
came off without a bruise, but the honours lay with Lord Auchinleck. The man whose 'Scots strength
of sarcasm' could retort on Johnson, that Cromwell was a man that let kings know they 'had
a lith in their neck,' was likely to open new ideas to the doctor, whose political opinions
could not rank higher than prejudices. 'Thus they parted,' says the son, after his father had,
with his dignified courtesy, seen Johnson into the postchaise; 'they are now in a happier state
of existence, in a place where there is no room for Whiggism.' 'I have always said,' the doctor
maintained, 'the first Whig was the Devil!'

Edinburgh was reached on November 9th. Eighty-three days had passed since they left it, and
for five weeks no news of them had been heard. I know Mrs Boswell wished me well to go.' The
irregular hours of her guest, and his habit of turning the candles downward when they did not
burn brightly, letting the wax run upon the carpet, had not been quite to the taste of the
hostess, who resented, 'what was very natural to a female mind,' the influence he possessed
over the actions of her husband.

We may well call this tour a spirited one, as Boswell had styled his own Corsican expedition.
No better book of travels in Scotland has ever been written than Boswell's Journal of a Tour
to the Hebrides. 'It is very convenient to travel with him,' writes his companion from Auchinleck
to Mrs Thrale, 'for there is no house where he is not received with kindness and respect. He
has better faculties than I had imagined; more justness of discernment and more fecundity of
images.' They had hoped to go sailing from island to island, and had not reckoned with what
Scott, who wonders they were not drowned, calls the proverbial carelessness of Hebridean boatmen.
They really had come two months too late. But Boswell's attention to the old man smoothed all
difficulties,--'looking on the tour as a co-partnership between Dr Johnson and myself,' he
did his part faithfully, dancing reels, singing songs, and airing the scraps of Gaelic he picked
up, thinking all this better than 'to play the abstract scholar.'

Johnson's account of the journey is an able performance, and is written with a lighter touch
and grace than is to be found in his early works. One passage from it has become famous,--his
description of Iona. But it is completely eclipsed by the Journal of Boswell. From start to
finish there is not a dull page, and the literary polish is, we venture to think, of a higher
kind than is seen in the Life. The artistic opening, and the grouping of the characters, together
with the wealth of archæological and historical information, the tripping style and sustained
interest, all render this book of Boswell's a masterpiece. Johnson's account, published in
1775, took ten years to reach a second edition. Boswell's appeared in September, 1785; and
by December 20 the issue was exhausted, a third followed on August 15, 1786, and the next year
saw a German translation issued at Lubeck. There had been grave indiscretions, lack of reticence,
and other faults in the book. Caricatures were rife. Revising for the Second Edition shewed
Sir Alexander Macdonald seizing the author by the throat, and pointing with his stick to the
open book, where two leaves are marked as torn out. But Boswell, in The Gentleman's Magazine
for March 1786, asserts that no such applications or threats had been made. The results, however,
may have added to the writer's unpopularity, as Lord Houghton suggests, at the Edinburgh bar,
through the answers, replies, and other rejoinders to the strictures of Johnson, for which
Boswell, as the pioneer and the introducer of the stranger, 'the chiel among them takin' notes,'
may in Edinburgh society have been held as mainly responsible.

To Johnson, the memories of the tour--the lone shieling and the misty island--were a source
of pleasing recollection. Taken earlier, it would have removed many of his insular prejudices
by wider survey and more varied conversation. 'The expedition to the Hebrides,' he wrote to
Boswell some years after, 'was the most pleasant journey I ever made;' and two years later,
after restless and tedious nights, he is found reverting to it and recalling the best night
he had had these twenty years back, at Fort Augustus. Yet all through September they had not
more than a day and a half of really good weather, and but the same during October. Out of
such slight materials and uncomfortable surroundings has Boswell produced a masterpiece of
descriptive writing. The memory of Johnson has lingered where that of the Jacobite Pretender
has well-nigh completely passed away. Mr Gladstone, proposing a Parliamentary vote of thanks
to Lord Napier for 'having planted the Standard of St George upon the mountains of Rasselas;'
Sir Robert Peel, quoting, in his address to Glasgow University as Lord Rector, Johnson's description
of Iona; Sir Walter Scott finding in Skye that he and his friends had in their memories, as
the one typical association of the island, the ode to Mrs Thrale, all combine to shew the abiding
interest attaching to the Rambler even in Abyssinia and to his foot-steps in Scotland.

CHAPTER VI

EDINBURGH LIFE--DEATH OF JOHNSON. 1773-1784

    'My father used to protest I was born to be a strolling
    pedlar.'--SIR WALTER SCOTT--Autobiography.

'You have done Auchinleck much honour and have, I hope, overcome my father who has never forgiven
your warmth for monarchy and episcopacy. I am anxious to see how your pages will operate on
him.' Boswell had good grounds for thus expressing himself to Johnson over the publication
of the latter's book. He had not long, it would seem, to wait for the breaking of the storm,
as we find him writing to Temple in ominous language. I always dread his making some bad settlement.'
Then the old judge would grimly relate how Lord Crichton, son of the Earl of Dumfries, would
go to Edinburgh, and how, when he was carried back to the family vault, the Earl, as he saw
the hearse from the window, had said, 'Ay, ay, Charles, thou went without an errand: I think
thou hast got one to bring thee back again.'

But had the son chosen to be quite candid here, we should see how just a cause the father had
for his displeasure. In the spring of 1774, he had written to Johnson suggesting a run up to
London, expressing the peculiar satisfaction which he felt in celebrating Easter at St Paul's,
which to his fancy was like going up to Jerusalem at the feast of the Passover. The doctor
was wisely deaf to this subtle appeal. 'Edinburgh,' said he, 'is not yet exhausted,' and reminded
him that his wife, having permitted him last year to ramble, had now a claim upon him at home,
while to come to Iona or to Jerusalem could not be necessary, though useful. Next year, however,
Boswell was in London, 'quite in my old humour,' as he tells Temple, arguing with him for concubinage
and the plurality of the patriarchs, from all which we may see that the plea urged to Johnson
for the visit was to be taken in a lax sense by Boswell, who made his chief excuse out of some
business at the bar of the House over an election petition in Clackmannan. He waited on Temple
in Devon and shocked his host by his inebriety, but 'under a solemn yew tree' he had vowed
reformation. But his return to town, if it 'exalted him in piety' at St Paul's, seems to have
led but to fresh dissipation. He hints at 'Asiatic multiplicity,' but this is only when he
has taken too much claret. The good resolutions at Iona and the influence of the ruins had
passed away, the trip is extended to two months, and he frets irritably over his old friend
Henry Dundas's election as King's Advocate,--'to be sure he has strong parts, but he is a coarse
unlettered dog.' Harry Dundas at least was never found philandering as we find Bozzy on this
occasion, where the mixture of religion and flirtation is so confusing. 'After breakfasting
with Paoli,' he writes before leaving for the north, 'and worshipping at St Paul's, I dined
tête-à-tête with my charming Mrs Stuart, of whom you have read in my Journal. We dined in all
the elegance of two courses and a dessert, with dumb waiters, except when the second course
and the dessert were served. He left to be in time for practice before the General Assembly,
finding 'something low and coarse in such employment, but guineas must be had'--a feeling quite
different from that of Lord Cockburn who thought the aisle of St Giles had seen the best work
of the best men in the kingdom since 1640. Perhaps his feelings on this point were soothed
by the traveller in the coach, a Miss Silverton, an 'amiable creature who has been in France.
I can unite little fondnesses with perfect conjugal love.' Alas for poor Peggie Montgomerie,
'of the ancient house of Eglintoun,' blamed by his father for not bridling the follies of his
son, waiting, doubtless, anxiously for the present to the second wife of his father as a means
of peace-offering!

Then the secret leaks out that the father had refused Boswell's plan of being allowed £400
a year and the trial of fortune at the London bar. His debts of £1000 had been paid, and his
allowance of £300 threatened with the reduction of a third. The promise under the old yew had
not been kept; the one bottle of hock as a statutory limit had been exceeded, he had been 'not
drunk, but was intoxicated,'--a subtle point for bacchanalian casuists, and very ill next day.
He lays it on the drunken habits of the country which, he says, are very bad, and with the
recollection of Burns' temptations in Dumfries we may admit that they were. His father, too,
was now about to entail his estate, and Bozzy's predilection for feudal principles and heirs
male brought things to a deadlock. He appealed to Lord Hailes, who admitted conscience and
self formed a strong plea when found on different sides. Finally, after the judge had inserted
in the deed his precautions against 'a weak, foolish and extravagant person,' the estate was
entailed on Boswell. 'My father,' he tells Temple, 'is so different from me. We divaricate
so much, as Dr Johnson said.

He feared the final settlement. He might be disgraced by his father, and not a shilling secured
to his wife and children. Then he is comforted by the thought that his father is visibly failing,
and he consults his brother David with a view to a settlement, should the succession pass to
him. The birth of a son, who was diplomatically called Alexander, was taken by the old man
as a compliment, and we find Boswell visiting at Auchinleck, 'not long at one time, but frequent
renewals of attention are agreeable,' he finds, to his father. He proposed to Johnson a tour
round the English cathedrals, but a brief trip with him to Derbyshire was all that resulted.
We now find for the first time in the Life indications of what would ensue when the strong
hand of Johnson was removed from the guidance of his weaker companion. 'As we drove back to
Ashbourne,' he writes with curious frankness, 'Dr Johnson recommended to me, as he had often
done, to drink water only,' and we meet with as curious a defence of drinking--the great difficulty
of resisting it when a good man asks you to drink the wine he has had twenty years in his cellar!
No wonder such excesses produced violent reaction to low spirits and the 'black dog' of hypochondria.
He finds it, after going to prayers in Carlisle Cathedral, 'divinely cheering to have a cathedral
so near Auchinleck,' one hundred and fifty miles off, as Johnson sarcastically replied. Bozzy
had been writing a series of articles, 'The Hypochondriack,' in the London Magazine, for about
two years, but he was advised not to mention his own mental diseases, or to expect for them
either the praise for which there was no room, or the pity which would do him no good. The
active old man was now in better health than he had been upon the Hebridean tour, and was in
hopes of yet shewing himself with Boswell in some part of Europe, Asia, or Africa. 'What have
you to do with liberty and necessity?' cries the doctor to his friend, who had been worrying
himself and his correspondent with philosophical questions, on which some six years before
he had got some light from the Lettres Persanes of Montesquieu. 'Come to me, my dear Bozzy,
and let us be as happy as we can. We will go again to the Mitre, and talk old times over.'
Thrice during the 1781 visit to London do we see his unfortunate habits breaking out; and,
when we find him saying he has unfortunately preserved none of the conversations, Miss Hannah
More, who met him that day at the Bishop of St Asaph's, explains it--'I was heartily disgusted
with Mr Boswell, who came upstairs after dinner much disordered with wine.'

Let us hear his own confession over his conduct at the house of Lady Galway. 'If you anticipate
your inheritance,' he was reminded, 'you can at last inherit nothing. Poverty (added the old
impransus Johnson, out of the depths of his own experience), my friend, is so great an evil
that I cannot but earnestly enjoin you to avoid it. Live on what you have; live, if you can,
on less.' Lord Auchinleck died suddenly at Edinburgh, on August 30th, 1782; and it was unfortunate
for Bozzy that neither at the death of his father nor of his mother, nor, as we shall see of
Johnson, was he present. The evening of the old man's days had been, we are assured by Ramsay
of Ochtertyre, clouded by the follies and eccentricities of his son. For thirty years he had
been sorely tried; twice he had paid his debts, he had indulged him with a foreign tour, had
provided him with every means of securing professional success at the bar, only to see that
son do everything to miss it and become everything his father hated in life--a Tory, an Anglican,
and a Jacobite. The new laird was anxious to display himself on a wider sphere. Johnson was
now visibly failing, and was glad of someone to lean upon for little attentions. 'Boswell,'
he said, 'I think I am easier with you than with almost anybody. Get as much force of mind
as you can. It was on Fox's proposed bill to regulate the affairs of the East India Company.
Against it he stands forth, 'as an ancient and faithful Briton, holding an estate transmitted
to him by charters from a series of kings.' Guardedly Johnson admitted that 'your paper contains
very considerable knowledge of history and of the constitution: it will certainly raise your
character, though perhaps it may not make you a minister of state.' A copy to Pitt elicited
the formal acceptance of thanks, but the exclusion of the bill Boswell took as proof of his
own advocacy. He stood for Ayrshire, turning back from York when the dissolution was announced.
'Our Boswell,' wrote the doctor to Langton, 'is now said to stand for some place. Whether to
wish him success his best friends hesitate.'

May found him with the Rambler for the last time. 'I intend,' he writes to Dr Percy, 'to be
in London about the end of this month, chiefly to attend upon Dr Johnson with respectful affection.
He has for some time been very ill with dropsical asthmatical complaints, which at his age
are very alarming. I wish to publish as a regale to him a neat little volume--The Praises of
Doctor Samuel Johnson, by co-temporary writers. Will your lordship take the trouble to send
me a note of the writers who have praised our much respected friend?' The attentive Bozzy had
written to all the leading men in the Edinburgh School of Medicine--Cullen, Hope, Monro, and
others. With the expectation that an increase of Johnson's pension would enable him to visit
Italy, he consulted Sir Joshua Reynolds, and, with his approval, wrote to Thurlow the Chancellor.
At the house of the painter they dined for the last time. 1784-1795

  'Ambition should be made of sterner stuff.'--JULIUS CÆSAR, iii. 2.

There is something unsatisfactory in the fact that Boswell was not with Johnson as he died.
It gives to his book an air of something distinctly lacking, which is not with us as we close
Lockhart's Life of Scott. His own account is that he was indisposed during a considerable part
of the year, which may, or may not, be a euphemism for irregular habits; yet, when we consider
how easily he might have been with his old friend, we must own to a feeling that Boswell's
mere satisfaction at learning he was spoken of with affection by Johnson at the close does
not satisfy the nature of things or the artistic sense of fitness. No literary executor had
been appointed, and the materials for a biography had been mostly destroyed by Johnson's orders.
This, we may be sure, had not been expected by Boswell, who set himself, however, to prepare
for the press his own Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, which his friend when alive had not
been willing to see appear as a pendant to the Journey. 'Between ourselves,' he tells Temple,
'he is not apt to encourage one to share reputation with him.' Yet he felt, as he wrote to
Percy on 20th March 1785, that it was a great consolation to him now that he had, as it was,
collected so much of the wit and the wisdom of that wonderful man. 'I do not expect,' he adds,
'to recover from it. I gaze after him with an eager eye; and I hope again to be with him.'

Now that the strong hand of Johnson was removed, 'and the light of his life as if gone out,'
the rest of Boswell's life was but a downward course. He struggles with himself, and feels
instinctively the lack of the curb which the powerful intellect of the Rambler had held on
the weaker character of the other. The occasion was wildly seized by Boswell in May 1785 to
issue a half-crown pamphlet, with the title, 'A letter to the People of Scotland, on the alarming
attempt to infringe the Articles of the Union, and introduce a most pernicious innovation,
by diminishing the number of the Lords of Session.' This extraordinary production, intended
doubtless as a means of recommendation of the author for parliamentary honours, can hardly
now be read in the light of events by any sympathetic Boswellian but with feelings of sorrow
and confusion. Its publication we may be sure would never have been sanctioned by Johnson.

After stating the foundation of the Court of Session, by James V. in 1532, on the model of
the Parliament of Paris, he attacks Dundas for having in himself the whole power of a grand
jury. 'Mr Edward Bright of Malden, the fat man whose print is in all our inns, could button
seven men in his waistcoat; but the learned lord comprehends hundreds.' He calls on the Scottish
people not to be cowed: 'let Lowther come forth (we cannot emulate Boswell in the plenitude
and the magnitude of his capital letters and other typographical devices), he upon whom the
thousands of Whitehaven depend for three of the elements.' His own opposition he proclaims
is honest, because he has no wish for an office in the Court of Session; he will try his abilities
in a wider sphere. 'Great sir,' he cries, 'forgive my thus presumptuously, thus rashly, attempting
for a moment to forge your thunder! But I conjure you--in the name of God and the King, I conjure
you--to announce in your own lofty language, that there shall be a stop put to this conspiracy,
which I fear might have the effect of springing a mine that would blow up your administration.'
This letter 'hastily written upon the spur of the occasion is already too long,' yet he calls
upon his countrymen to allow him to 'indulge a little more my own egotism and vanity, the indigenous
plants of my own mind.' His whole genealogy, Flodden and all, we hear over again. 'If,' he
pertinently adds, 'it should be asked what this note has to do here, I answer to illustrate
the authour of the text. And to pour out all myself as old Montaigne, I wish all this to be
known.' After a eulogy of himself as no time-server, and his profession of readiness 'to discuss
topicks with mitred St Asaph, and others; to drink, to laugh, to converse with Quakers, Republicans,
Jews and Moravians,' he exhorts his friends and countrymen, in the words of his departed Goldsmith,
who gave him many Attic nights and that jewel of the finest water, the acquaintance of Sir
Joshua Reynolds, 'to fly from petty tyrants to the throne.' He declares himself a Tory, but
no slave. He is in possession of an essay, dictated to him by Dr Johnson, on the distinction
between Whig and Tory, and concludes with eclat, 'with one of the finest passages in John Home's
noble and elegant tragedy of Douglas.'

No condensation of this, the most 'characteristical' of all his writings, can give the reader
any idea of this extraordinary production. Once only does it deviate into sense when, on the
last page, we find the advertisement of the Tour to the Hebrides, 'which was read and liked
by Dr Johnson, and will faithfully and minutely exhibit what he said was the pleasantest part
of his life.'

In the Hilary Term of 1786, he was called to the English bar, feeling it, as he said, 'a pity
to dig in a lead mine, when he could dig in a gold one.' Johnson had always thrown cold water
on the idea, though as early as February 1775, as we find from a letter of Boswell's to Strahan
the printer, the idea had been proposed to him. In the May of 1786 he writes to Mickle, the
translator of the Lusiad, that he is in a wavering state; he has the house of his friend Hoole,
and he still retains the use of General Paoli's residence in Portman Square. When he did finally
take up his own quarters in Cavendish Square, the result was not what he had expected. He was
discouraged by the want of practice, and the prospect of any. In fact, he was to feel what,
as Malone says, Lord Auchinleck had all along told his son, that it would cost him much more
trouble to hide his ignorance of Scotch and English law than to shew his knowledge. He feared
his own deficiencies in 'the forms, quirks and quiddities,' which he saw could be learned only
by early habit. He even doubted whether he should not be satisfied with being simply baron
of Auchinleck with a good income in Scotland; but he felt that such a course could not 'deaden
the ambition which has raged in my veins like a fever.' The Horatian motto inscribed on the
front of Auchinleck House, telling of the peace of mind dearer than all to be found everywhere,
if the mind itself is in its own place, was never appreciated, however, by the new laird.

His ignorance of law was soon shewn at the Lancaster assizes. Mr Leslie Stephen is inclined
to view the story as being not very credible. Yet we fear the authority is indisputable. 'We
found Jemmy Boswell,' writes Lord Eldon, 'lying upon the pavement--inebriated. There was no
moving him for some time. At last he was carried to bed, and he has been dreaming about himself
and the pavement.' Lord Jeffrey once assisted Bozzy to bed in similar circumstances. 'You are
a promising lad,' he told him next morning, 'and if you go on as you have begun, you may be
a Bozzy yourself yet.' No wonder that we find him hesitating about going on the spring northern
circuit, which would cost him, he says, fifty pounds, and oblige him to be in rough company
for four weeks.

His only piece of promotion came from Lord Lonsdale. Pitt had been brought in by this nobleman
for the pocket-borough of Appleby, and Bozzy had hopes of a Parliamentary introduction that
way. The author of the Rolliad describes his power as

                'Even by the elements confessed,
    Of mines and boroughs Lonsdale stands possessed;
    And one sad servitude alike denotes
    The slave that labours and the slave that votes.'

It was on this political boroughmonger and jobber that Boswell was now pinning his faith. The
complete dependence of him on Lonsdale in return for the Recordership of Carlisle did not escape
the notice of the wits, who now found that the writer who had been declaring over the India
Bill of Fox his devotion to the throne, the Tory, but no slave, had transferred his entire
loyalty and abjectest protestations to 'his king in Westmoreland.' To add to his distress,
his wife was dying. A short trial of London had led her to return to Ayrshire, and her husband
was lost in doubt whether to revisit her or cling to 'the great sphere of England,' the whirl
of the metropolis, in hopes that the great prize would at last be drawn. In the north he found
her still lingering on, but in his eagerness to obtain political influence 'I drank so freely
that riding home in the dark I fell from my horse and bruised my shoulder.' From London he
was again summoned, but with his curious infelicity at such times of trouble, he was not in
time to witness her death: 'not till my second daughter came running out from the house and
announced to us the dismal event in a burst of tears.' Remorse found vent in an agony of grief.
'She never would have left me,' he cries to Temple; 'this reflection will pursue me to my grave.'
In July, the widower of a month hastened north to contest the county, only to find Sir Adam
Fergusson chosen. 'Let me never impiously repine,' is his cry of distress. 'Yet as "Jesus wept"
for the death of Lazarus, I hope my tears at this time are excused. "the truth is, that, excepting
in cases of insufficient feud, which sometimes happen, in most country in no world is Captain more write."--
(Vol. ii. life. 358.) we will not lower the p, but it has frequently rated to Spain that cool
life is appeared at that much contradict value in us than in the other civilized country we are acquainted
with 1795, and that the low consequence of a human valuation is any
natural indifference with which blood is always so abundantly and there
poured out upon the the trifling and deadly grounds. It is painful
to see him on every hand seeking the Parliamentary interest out of which he was all the while
doing his best to write himself. No party could or would take him seriously. His rent-roll
was over £1600, a large sum in these days, and it was yearly rising. Earnestly did his brother
David press upon him a return to Auchinleck and the retrenchment of his expenses. But the spell
of the lights of London was on him, and 'I could not endure Edinburgh,' he tells us, 'unless
I were to have a judge's place to bear me up,' and that was a thing not to be dreamed of after
the publication of the Letter. He dispersed his family to various schools, finding the eldest
of the boys beginning to oppose him, 'and no wonder,' as he bitterly adds. Then the cry is
forced from him in allusion to the famous passage in Shakespeare on Wolsey's hopes and fall--a
passage which, curiously enough, we have come upon in the common-place book which Boswell had
kept as a boy--'O Temple, Temple, is this realizing any of the towering hopes which have so
often been the subject of our letters. Yet I live much with a great man, who, upon any day
that his fancy shall be inclined, may obtain for me an office.' Everywhere he casts about,
trying the Lord Chancellor, not seeing the smallest opening in Westminster Hall, but buoyed
up by 'the delusion that practice may come at any time.'

'We must do something for you,' Burke had said in a kindly way, 'for our own sakes.' He recommended
him to General Conway, but though the place was not obtained the letter was valued by Boswell
more. Writing to Mr Abercrombie in America, even as late as the July of 1793, he is found expressing
'a great wish to see that country; and I once flattered myself that I should be sent thither
in a station of some importance;' and from a letter to Burke we learn that this expected post
had been a commissionership in the treaty between America and Britain. Dundas was another of
his hopes. 'The excellent Langton says it is disgraceful, it is utter folly in Pitt not to
attach to his administration a man of my popular and pleasant talents.' Dundas, however, after
having been given a margin of two months for a reply, has made no sign; 'how can I delude myself?
I will tell you,' he informs Temple, 'Lord Lonsdale shews me more and more regard. Three of
his members assure me that he will give me a seat at the General Election.' Then that last
reed was to break. At Lowther Castle, his wig was removed from his room, as a practical joke
of a coarse order on the unoffending Boswell, and all the day he was obliged to go in his nightcap,
which he felt was very ill-timed to one in his situation. The loss of the wig the unsuspecting
victim declares will remain as great a secret as the writer of the letters of Junius, but ere
long the tyrant whom he had invoked as the man of Macedonia to help Scotland has undeceived
him. 'I suppose you thought,' he roughly said, 'I was to bring you into Parliament? I never
had any such intention.' It is impossible not to feel for Boswell at this crisis. 'I am down
at an inn,' he writes to Temple, 'and ashamed and sunk on account of the disappointment of
hopes which led me to endure such grievances. I deserve all that I suffer. I am at the same
time distracted what to do in my own county. I am quite in a fever. O my old and most intimate
friend, I intreat you to afford me some consolation, and pray do not divulge my mortification.
I now resign my Recordership, and shall get rid of all connection with this brutal fellow.'
His last Parliamentary venture was cut short by the reflection how small was his following.
How curiously after all this reads his own little autobiographical sketch in the European Magazine!
'It was generally supposed that Mr Boswell would have had a seat in Parliament; and indeed
his not being amongst the Representatives of the Commons is one of those strange things which
occasionally happen in the complex operations of our mixed Government. That he has not been
brought into Parliament by some great man is not to be wondered at when we peruse his publick
declaration.' Not to be wondered at, truly, though the writer chose to refer the wonder to
his independence. Then the reader is informed how he had been a candidate at the general election
for his own county of Ayr, 'where he has a very extensive property and a very fine place of
which there is a view and description in Grose's Antiquities of Scotland.' The conclusion of
the sketch relates how, at the last Lord Mayor's day, he sang with great applause a state-ballad
of his own composition, entitled The Grocer of London. This was the last shot in the political
locker. At a Guildhall dinner, given to Pitt by the worshipful company of grocers, Boswell
contrived to get himself called upon for a song. He rose, and delivered himself of a catch
on the model of Dibdin's 'Little cherub that sits up aloft,' prefaced and interlarded by an
address to the guest of the evening. Honoured as he had been on his continental tour at the
courts of Europe, yet never till to-night had he felt himself so flattered as now he was, in
the presence of the minister he admired, and to whose home and foreign policy he gave a hearty,
if discriminating support. Boswell for his song was encored six times, till the cold features
of the minister were seen to relax in a smile, amid the general roar of plaudits and laughter!
After this 'state ballad,' a copy of which was last seen at Lord Houghton's sale, Bozzy and
a friend, in a state of high glee, returned to their lodgings, shouting all the way The Grocer
of London! 'He has declared,' adds the complacent autobiographer, 'his resolution to persevere
on the next vacancy.'

All this time his great work was slowly advancing. Not even the unequivocal success and merits
of the Journal could induce 'the trade' to take Boswell seriously. No one had thought of him,
any more than Gay would have been thought of as the biographer of the circle to which he had
been admitted. Percy, even Sir William Scott, had been successively approached, but none had
given a consideration to 'Johnson's Bozzy.' Such neglect, however, must have spurred him to
exertion. The lively lady's anecdotage, dateless and confused, he could afford to despise as
'too void of method even for such a farrago,' as Horace Walpole said of it. But the solemn
Hawkins, as an old friend and executor of Johnson's will, was a more dangerous rival. 'Observe
how he talks of me,' cries Boswell querulously, 'as quite unknown.' No doubt Sir John was 'unclubable,'
and by Reynolds, Dyer, Percy, and Malone he was detested. Yet his book, though eclipsed by
Boswell's, is not unmeritorious; but for his allusion to 'Mr Boswell, a native of Scotland,'
he has been made to pay severely by systematic castigation from his rival, who now doggedly,
as Johnson would have said, set himself to the work before him. Wherever first-hand information
could be had, he was constantly on the track. Miss Burney has told how she met him at the gate
of the choir of St George's chapel at Windsor--'his comic-serious face having lost none of
its wonted singularity, nor yet his mind and language.' She had letters from Johnson, and he
must have some of the doctor's choice little notes: 'We have seen him long enough upon stilts,
I want to shew him in a new light. He proposed a thousand curious expedients to get them, but
I was invincible.' The approach of the king and queen broke off the interview, but next morning
he was again on the watch. We must regret that they were not given, however much his indiscretions
had made people chary of their confidences. 'Boswell,' says Horace Walpole, 'that quintessence
of busy-bodies called on me last week, and was let in when he should not have been. This long-lost
brochure has this year been rediscovered, but it will add little interest to his life, as its
main tenets had long been known. A writer in the Athenæum for May 9th describes it as quarto
in form, and dedicated to Miss B----, whom he identifies with Miss Bagnal to be shortly mentioned.
On the three topics of slavery, the Middlesex election, and America, Bozzy differed respectfully
but firmly from the doctor, who drank at Oxford to the next insurrection of the negroes in
the West Indies. Accordingly he stands stoutly by the planters and the feudal scheme of subordination,
whose annihilation he maintains would 'shut the gates of mercy on mankind.' For his apparent
inconsistency Burke is attacked:--

    'Burke, art thou here, too? thou whose pen
    Can blast the fancied rights of men.
    Pray by what logic are those rights
    Allow'd to Blacks,--denied to Whites?'

Others may fail their king and country, but he as a throne and altar Tory calls all to know that

    'An ancient baron of the land
    I by my king shall ever stand.'

He was now at last near the haven. The mass of his papers and materials had been arranged,
after a labour which, as he tells Reynolds, was really enormous. The capacity for sustained
effort, when set to it, of which he had boasted over his condensation of the evidence in the
great Douglas case, stood him now in good service amid all his vexations, dissipations and follies.

In February 1788 we hear of his having yet seven years of the life to write. By January 1789
he had finished the introduction and the dedication to Sir Joshua Reynolds, both of which had
appeared difficult, but he was confident they had been well done. To excite the interest in
his coming book, or as Mr Leslie Stephen thinks, to secure copyright, he published in 1790
two quarto parts at half a guinea each--the letter to Chesterfield and the conversation of
Johnson with the king. By December he has had additional matter sent him from Warren Hastings,
and he hoped to be out on 8th March, but the January of the new year found him with still two
hundred pages of copy, and the death not yet written. Yet many a time, as he writes Temple,
had he thought of giving it up. To add to his troubles, he had indulged in landed speculations,
paying £2500 for the estate of a younger branch; he had been lending money to a cousin, and
if he could but raise a thousand pounds on the strength of his book, he should be inclined
to hold on, or 'game with it,' as Sir Joshua said. Neither Reynolds nor Malone, however, took
the hint; and at the latter's door he cast longing looks as he passed. He tells him he had
been in the chair at the club, with Fox 'quoting Homer and Fielding to the astonishment of
Jo. Warton.' He had bought a lottery ticket with the hopes of the prize of £5000, but--blank!
The advance he needed was got elsewhere, and the property in his book saved. April finds him
correcting the last sheet. He feared the result: 'I may get no profit, the public may be disappointed,
I may make enemies, even have quarrels. But the very reverse of all this may happen.' Then
on the 19th he writes to Dempster: 'my magnum opus, in two volumes quarto, is to be published
on Monday, 16th May'--by a lucky chance it was the anniversary of the red day in Boswell's
calendar, his meeting with Johnson eight and twenty years before! 'When it is fairly launched,
I mean to stick close to Westminster Hall, and it will be truly kind if you recommend me appeals
or causes of any sort.'

The rest of his life is soon told. Paoli was now again in Corsica. When Mirabeau had recalled
the exiles, the general had been made by Louis XVI. military commandant of the island. Johnson,
also, was gone, and the two strongest checks upon the excesses of Boswell were removed. Piteous
it is to find him writing to Malone: 'that most friendly fellow Courtenay, begging the pardon
of an M.P. for so free an epithet,' had taken him in hand, and had taken his word that for
some months his daily allowance of wine should not exceed four good glasses at dinner, and
a pint after it. The qualifying adjective 'good' is dangerous, and before the time for the
bill was half expired, Bozzy has closured it and the amendment. The state of his affairs, the
loss of his wife bore heavily on him, together with 'the disadvantage to my children in having
so wretched a father--nay, the want of absolute certainty of being happy after death, the sure
prospect of which is frightful.' Then a fitful gleam of the old Adam breaks out. This he vows
shall be a crisis in his life, and Temple's apprehension of his friend being carried off in
a state of intoxication he finds awful to contemplate. Early in 1795 the end is announced by
Temple's son writing to his father--'a few nights ago Mr Boswell returned from the Literary
Club, quite weak and languid;' and the last letter to Temple from his correspondent of thirty-seven
years is dated 8th April: 'I would fain write to you in my own hand, but really cannot.' His
son James finishes the letter, to tell that the patient 'feels himself a good deal stronger
to-day.' He was attended by Dr Warren, who had been with Johnson as he died. Complement would gravely
be noble and savage, were it does not advise i for activity, as i may be understand for Turki
and Moors, who must not see own wives, when like force'mho when adds to a wives with him turned.
In France turned for rebuke, when same bottom-fortune is ever young, and believe wherever i have
meeting advise me turned in people, or up, with ease. A Trinity, late occasion, i told me say, that
when he see for young and beautiful idiom, (Iodine-131 think irrelevantly it was a marriage)
him received him model up in berth; and before he went, when her baby
algonquian chambre brought his Heading madame dle Andrew'andrew shift
elegantly festooned, which his Occasion had the honour to put over
head, as me sat in bed!-- nor was thither, for that say, say wherever
the soul intend; it was a praise intended; and, as such bozzy, received.
 A complex, weak, unsteady life enough, and no
one did more than Boswell himself to bring into glaring prominence the faults that lie on the
surface, by that frank, open, and ostentatious peculiarity which he avowed, and which he compared
to the characteristics of the old seigneur, Michael de Montaigne. Never was there a franker
critic of James Boswell, Esq., than himself; 'the most unscottified of mortals,' as Johnson
called him, has little or none of the reserve and reticence that are generally supposed to
be marks of the national character. A rare and curious Epistle in Verse, by the Rev. Samuel
Martin of Monimail, 1795, touches on the main points of his life, and the author, who was apparently
a friend of Boswell, had learned 'with affectionate concern and respect that at the end prayer
was his stay.' He criticises, in rather halting and prosaic lines,

    'The prison scenes, his prying into death,
    How felons and how saints resign their breath;
    How varying and conflicting passions roll,
    How scaffold exhibitions shew the soul.'

He laments his 'injurious hilarity,' his degrading himself as 'the little bark, attendant on
the huge all-bearing ark,' his political and ecclesiastical aberrations from the surer and
better standpoints of his family and country. The feeling of this friend of Boswell would represent,
we cannot doubt, the verdict at the time of his own circle.

The 'prison scenes' are an integral part in Boswell's psychology. Never did George Selwyn attend
them with greater regularity, or Wyndham run after prize fights more assiduously. In the Public
Advertizer, April 25, 1768, we find him writing: 'I myself am never absent from a publick execution.
When I first attended them, I was shocked to the greatest degree ... convulsed with pity and
terror. These cravings are clearly the marks of a mind morbidly affected and diseased, the
result of the Dutch marriage as Ramsay believed. All through his life Boswell is conscious
of his 'distempered imagination,' and the letters to Temple are scattered with irrelevances
and repetitions, fatuities and inconsistencies that can be explained only on the score of mental
disease. Were any doubts possible on this point, the expressions of his opinions on religion
would dispel them. His 'Popish imagination,' quickened as it may have been by the escapade
with the actress, was but the natural outcome of an ill-balanced mind. His feelings about consecrated
places, loca solennia such as Iona, and Wittenberg, Rasay and Carlisle, we have seen. He delighted,
says Malone, in what he called the mysterious, leading Johnson on ghosts, and kindred subjects.
He was a believer in second sight: 'it pleases my superstition,' he tells Temple, 'which you
know is not small, and being not of the gloomy but the grand species is an enjoyment.' When
his uncle John died, we learn he was 'a good scholar and affectionate relative, but had no
conduct. It would almost appear as if Bozzy had read himself into Butler's doctrine that our
present life is a state of probation for a future one, but had forgotten the qualification
'that our future interest is now depending on ourselves.'

The very influence of Johnson himself may have affected the weaker mind of Boswell injuriously.
Forbes believed that some slight tincture of superstition had been contracted from his companionship
with the sage.

But James Boswell deserves at the hands of his readers and of critics better treatment than
has been measured out to him in the contemptuous estimate of Macaulay, and, still worse, in
the shrill attack of the smaller brood 'whose sails were never to the tempest given,' but who
have, by the easy repetition of a few phrases and an imperfect acquaintance with the writings
and character of the man they decry, come to the complacent depreciation which, as Niebuhr
said, is ever so dear to the soul of mediocrity. If James Boswell was not like Goldsmith, a
great man, as Johnson finely pronounced, whose frailties should not be remembered, nor was,
perhaps, in any final sense a great writer, yet for twenty years he had been the tried friend
of the man who at the Mitre had called out to him, 'Give me your hand, I have taken a liking
to you.' A plant that, like Goldsmith also, 'flowered late,' he has created in literature and
biography a revolution, and produced a work whose surpassing merits and value are known the
more that it is studied.

CHAPTER VIII

IN LITERATURE

    'Eclipse is first, the rest nowhere.'--MACAULAY.

'How delicate, decent is English Biography,' says Carlyle, 'bless its mealy mouth! A Damocles
sword of Respectability hangs for ever over the poor English Life-writer (as it does over poor
English Life in general), and reduces him to the verge of paralysis. Thus it has been said
there are no English lives worth reading, except those of Players, who by the nature of the
case have bidden Respectability good-day. The English biographer has long felt that, if in
writing his man's biography he wrote down anything that could by possibility offend any man,
he had written wrong.' The biographer, as Mr Froude found out for a commentary on all this,
is placed between a Scylla and Charybdis, between what is due to the subject, and what is expected
by the public. If something is left out of the portrait, the likeness will be imperfect; if
the anxiety or the inquisitiveness of readers to know private details is left ungratified,
the writer will be met by the current cant that the public has a right to know. The line is
not easily drawn, and few subjects for the biographer can ever desire to be as candidly dealt
with by him as Cromwell acted with Sir Peter Lely, in the request to be painted as he was,
warts and all. Thus, too often the result will be but biography written in vacuo, 'the tragedy
of Hamlet with the part of Hamlet omitted--by particular desire.'

Biography, like History, has suffered from considerations of dignity and propriety. The writers
of the Hume and Robertson school of history, in their stately minuet with the historical muse,
have been careful to exclude everything that seemed beneath the dignity of the sceptred pall;
biographers have as consciously studied the proprieties. 'The Muse of history,' says Thackeray,
'wears the mask and speaks to measure; she too in our age busies herself with the affairs only
of kings. I wonder shall history ever pull off her periwig and cease to be Court-ridden? Dignity
and respectability have ruined alike the historian and the biographer.

Lockhart foresaw that some readers would accuse him of trenching upon delicacy and propriety
over his sixth and seventh chapters in the Life of Scott, and the circumstances were after
all such as, had choice been permitted him, he might easily have omitted, considering it his
duty to tell what he had to say truly and intelligibly. Of all men Macaulay had nothing to
fear from any rational biography that should ever be written of him, yet has not Mr Trevelyan
assured his readers that the reviewers had told him, that he would much better have consulted
his uncle's reputation by the omission of passages in his letters and diaries? Such criticism,
as he justly says, is to seriously misconceive the province and the duty of the biographer,
and his justification is that the reading world has long extended to the man the just approbation
which it so heartily extended to his books. The Latin critics assigned history,--and accordingly
history in miniature, biography,--to the department of oratory. The feeling, in consequence,
has long prevailed of regarding biography as the field for the display of every other feeling
then veracity. It has been emotional, or it has been decorously dull. To all such writers the
style adopted by Boswell would appear, and justly appear, revolutionary. The cry is raised
of there being nothing sacred, of the violation of domestic privacy, of the sanctities of life
being endangered, of indiscretions, and violations of confidences, by the biographer. Accordingly,
just as Macaulay decided that, in general, tragedy was corrupted by eloquence, and comedy by
wit, so biography and history have suffered from the dignity of Clio. Boswell was perfectly
aware what he was doing, nor did he awake to find himself famous for a method into which the
sciolists pretend he only unconsciously blundered. When he introduced the subject of biography
at Dr Taylor's, no doubt with his own book in his eye, he said that in writing a man's life
the man's peculiarities should be mentioned because they mark his character. When he resolved
on their publication, he thought it right to ask Johnson explicitly on this point, and the
reply was what in 1773 the doctor had given to Macleod in Skye, when he had asked if Orrery
had done wrong, to expose the defects of Swift with whom he had lived in terms of intimacy.
'Why, no, sir,' Johnson had decided, 'after the man is dead, for then it is done historically.'
A biographer that would omit or disguise the relations of Nelson to Lady Hamilton, would be
justly suspected of disingenuousness, and Lockhart, especially in his treatment of the political
side of his subject,--for example in the notorious Beacon incident--is but too open to this
charge. But disingenuousness is a charge that never could have occurred to Boswell, whose veracity
is the prime quality that has made him immortal. When the Journal was in the press, Hannah
More, studious of the name of the moralist and the sage, 'besought him to mitigate his asperities.'
'I will not,' said Boswell roughly, but wisely for posterity, 'cut off his claws, nor make
a tiger a cat to please anyone.'

Boswell's books are veritable books. Few books have had such a severe test applied to them.
His first was dedicated to Paoli, whose sanction must be taken to guarantee every line of it.
"In every narrative," he writes in the dedication to Malone of the Journal, "whether historical
or biographical, authenticity is of the utmost consequence. Of this I have ever been so firmly
persuaded that I inscribed a former work to that person who was the best judge of its truth.
Of this work the manuscript was daily read by Johnson, and you have perused the original and
can vouch for the strict fidelity of the present publication." His Life of Johnson was as fearlessly
dedicated to Sir Joshua Reynolds, one whose intimacy with Johnson could stamp, with assured
knowledge of the subject, the credit and success of the work. Among the 'some dozen, or baker's
dozen, and those chiefly of very ancient date,' of reliable biographies whose paucity Carlyle
laments, the works of Boswell may be safely included. Their accuracy is confessed by workers
in all fields. His Tour created a type; no better volume of travels has ever been written than
the Journal; and the critic who has dealt at the reputation of Boswell its heaviest blow has
yet to confess, that Homer is no more the first of poets, Shakespeare the first of dramatists,
Demosthenes the first of orators, than Boswell is the first of biographers, with no second.

How is this? Written in 1831, before Lockhart Southey and Carlyle by their biographies of Scott,
Nelson, and Frederick had appeared as rivals, why is it no less true now? What singular gift
or quality can account for this singular aloofness from the ordinary or extraordinary class
of writers? Why does Boswell yet wear the crown of indivisible supremacy in biography? His
own words will not explain it, the possession of Johnson's intimacy, the twenty years' view
of his subject, his faculty for recollecting, and his assiduity in recording communications.
This and more than this Lockhart possessed, the nearest rival to the biographical throne. He
was the son-in-law of his subject, for whom he had as true an admiration as Boswell had for
Johnson. But Boswell was only in the company of his idol some 180 days, or 276 if we include
the time on the tour in Scotland, in all the twenty years of his acquaintance. Lockhart had
the journals of Sir Walter, and the communications of nearly a hundred persons. A comparison
in any sense, literary, social, or moral, would have been felt by Lockhart as an insult, for
he clearly regards Sir Alexander Boswell as a greater man than his father. But if, like the
grandsire of Hubert at Hastings, Lockhart has drawn a good bow, Boswell, like the Locksley
of the novelist, has notched his shaft, and comparisons have long ceased to be instituted. [H] cried
sufficiently, to retirement, being seen of duke of two at her sons,
who replied, "i should be valliere to remember myself as birth, than
his death."

Argyll of favour, are not marks of further papers were from the s. In the duchess of amusements, among
this vast remains, i G'help was going out to your white picture, Argyll'Corsica monument was
laid in the Corsica, as the piece had done to Lady [s] by Col; and Madame sculpture are certain-wife
Brun: he was, you were to know, mistress to John who embraced the Mother, but retired to read
that convent, in picture shall not rather is, and as she lived in
repentance above thirty years.

[H] [cannot] VOLTAIRE says, the monument is not now noticed by conjectures.

 Goldsmith was great in spite of his weaknesses, Boswell
by reason of his; if he had not been a great fool, he would never have been a great writer.
He was a dunce, a parasite, a coxcomb, a Paul Pry, had a quick observation, a retentive memory,
and accordingly--he has become immortal! Alas for the paucity of such immortals under so common
circumstances; their number should be legion! That a fool may occasionally write interesting
matter we know; but that a man should write a literary classic, graced by arrangement, selection,
expression, is not even paradox but hyperbole run mad. The truth is, Macaulay had no eye for
such a complex character as Boswell. Too correct himself, too prone to the cardinal virtues
and consistency, to follow one who, by instinct, seemed to anticipate Wendell Holmes' advice--'Don't
be consistent, but be simply true'--and too sound politically in the field where Boswell and
the doctor abased themselves in absurd party spirit, Macaulay can no more understand sympathetically
the vagaries of Boswell than Mommsen or Drumann can follow the political inconsistency of Cicero.
He had no Boswellian 'delight in that intellectual chemistry which can separate good qualities
from evil in the same person;' and in his essay on Milton he has disclaimed explicitly all
such hero-worship of the living or the dead and denounced Boswellism as the most certain mark
of an ill-regulated intellect. Nor had he, or Carlyle either, before him the evidence of the
letters to Temple.

Carlyle, in the theory of hero-worship, has made capital use of Boswell. He sees the strong
mind of Johnson leading 'the poor flimsy little soul' of James Boswell; he feels 'the devout
Discipleship, the gyrating observantly round the great constellation.' He has Boswell's reiterated
declarations to support him. On one side Carlyle's vindication of the biographer is successful;
he errs in emphasizing the discovery by Boswell of the Rambler. In such a discovery Langton
and Beauclerk had long preceded him, and the Johnson that Boswell met in Davies' parlour was
the pensioned writer who had out-lived his dark days, and was the literary dictator of the
day, and the associate of Burke and of Reynolds. But Carlyle comes nearer the truth when he
touches on the Boswellian recipe for being graphic--the possession of an open, loving heart,
and what follows from the possession of such. Like White of Selborne, with his sparrows and
cockchafers, Boswell, too, has copied some true sentences from the inspired book of nature.

But however this may account for his insight--the heart seeing farther than the head--it will
not account for his literary qualities. Of all his contemporaries, Goldsmith and Burke excepted,
no one is a greater master of a pure prose style than Boswell, and for ease of narrative, felicity
of phrase, and rounded diction he is incomparable. Macaulay believed a London apprentice could
detect Scotticisms in Robertson; Hume's style is often vicious by Gallicisms and Scots law
phrases which nothing but his expository gifts have obscured from the critics. Beattie confesses
learning English as a dead language and taking several years over the task. But Boswell, 'scarce
by North Britons now esteemed a Scot,' writes with an ease that renders his style his own.
'The fact is,' says Mr Cotter Morison, 'that no dramatist or novelist of the whole century
surpassed or even equalled Boswell in rounded and clear and picturesque presentation, or in
real dramatic faculty.'

Let us take one portrait from the Boswell gallery--the meeting of the
two old Pembroke men, Johnson and Oliver Edwards. Come, sir, drink water, and put in for a
    hundred." No fool with a
note-book, no tippling reporter, as the shallow critics say, could have
written this. To them there would have appeared in a chance meeting of
two old men nothing worthy of notice, yet how dramatically does Boswell
touch off the Philistine side of Edwards, and insert the fine shading
and the inimitable remarks about the setting up for the philosopher, and
supper being a turnpike to bed! This art of the biographer is what gives
a memorableness to slight incidents, by the object being real and really
seen; it is the 'infinitude of delineation, the intensity of conception
which informs the Finite with a certain Infinitude of significance,
ennobling the Actual into Idealness.'

Openness of mind will do much, but there must be the seeing eye behind it. For the mental development
of Boswell, there is no doubt that, as with Goldsmith, his foreign travels had done much. As
Addison in the Freeholder had recommended foreign travel to the fox-hunting Tory squires of
his day as a purge for their provincial ideas, Boswell shares with the author of the Traveller
and the Deserted Village cosmopolitan instincts and feelings. 'I have always stood up for the
Irish,' he writes, 'in whose fine country I have been hospitably and jovially entertained,
and with whom I feel myself to be congenial. 'I have promised,' he writes in 1775, 'to Dr Johnson
to read when I get to Scotland; and to keep an account of what I read. In his manuscripts there
are many misspellings. He assigns to Terence a Horatian line and, in a letter to Garrick, quotes
as Horatian the standard mens sana in corpore sano of Juvenal. More strange is his quoting
in a note an illustration of the phrase 'Vexing thoughts,' without his being apparently aware
that the words are by Rous of Pembroke, the Provost of Eton, whose portrait in the college
hall he must often have seen, the writer of the Scottish Metrical Version of the Psalms. Yet
his intellectual interests were keen. Late in life he has 'done a little at Greek; Lord Monboddo's
Ancient Metaphysics which I am reading carefully helps me to recover the language.' He has
his little scraps of irritating Latinity which he loves to parade, and when he dined at Eton,
at the fellows' table, he 'made a considerable figure, having certainly the art of making the
most of what I know. I had my classical quotations very ready.' Besides, the easy allusiveness
of Boswell to books and to matters beyond the scope of general readers, his interest in all
things going forward in the Johnsonian circle, his shewing himself in some metaphysical points--predestination,
for example--fully a match for Johnson, and his own words in the Journal--'he had thought more
than anybody supposed, and had a pretty good stock of general learning and knowledge'--all
conspire to shew that, if he had no more learning than what he could not help, James Boswell
was altogether, as Dominie Sampson said of Mannering, 'a man of considerable erudition despite
of his imperfect opportunities.'

Nor were his entire interests Johnsonian. Scattered through his writings we find allusions
to other books, in a more or less forward stage of completeness, and of which some must have
been destroyed by his faithless executors. A goodly list, and a varied one, involving interest,
knowledge, and research, fit to form the equipment of a professed scholar. 

And the commander of one of probability, south was then of passenger, supped the captain of fail scotland',
and for line of meeting winds which would not fortunately go they might rather ensue from goldsmith-west.
The advice there was as afterwards have been taken. Him steamed out till within twenty meetings
of purpose, and fortunately met with wind. The monsoon was now medical
place against them, and render both the s, where instead of living to
Bombay eighteen its teeth, his coal-dust would blow, and they would
be driven to Aden for more. The
Boswelliana supplies here some slight confirmation of this, for there have been preserved in
that collection stories that reappear in the Life, and the final form in which they appear
in the later book is always that of a pointed and improved nature. It would, therefore, seem
that Boswell, whose imitations of Johnson Mrs Thrale declared in some respects superior to
Garrick's, in his long devotion to the style and manner of his friend, 'inflated with the Johnsonian
ether,' did consciously or otherwise add much to the originals, and so has denied himself a
share of what would otherwise be justly, if known, set down to his credit.

'I own,' he writes in 1789 to Temple, 'I am desirous that my life should tell.' He counted
doubtless on the Autobiography for this purpose. 'It is a maxim with me,' said the great Bentley,
'that no man was ever written out of reputation but by himself.' At first sight it would appear
that Boswell had inflicted upon his own fame an indelible blot. From whom but himself should
we ever have learned those failings, of which Macaulay has deftly made so much in his unsympathetic
writing down of the man, after the manner of the Johnsonian attack on Milton and Gray? In whom
but himself should we detect the excrescences in his works--the permutations and combinations
in shaving, the wish for a pulley in bed to raise him, his puzzle over the disproportionate
wages of footmen and maidservants, his boastings, his family pride, his hastily writing in
the sage's presence Johnson's parody of Hervey in the Meditations on a Pudding, his superstitions,
and his weaknesses? It is this that has cost him so dear with the critics, and the superior
people, 'empty wearisome cuckoos, and doleful monotonous owls, innumerable jays also and twittering
sparrows of the housetops.' He compares his own ideas to his handwriting, irregular and sprawling;
his nature to Corinthian brass, made up of an infinite variety of ingredients, and his head
to a tavern which might have been full of lords drinking Burgundy, but has been invaded by
low punch-drinkers whom the landlord cannot expel. Blots and inequalities there are in the
great book. Cooper off the prairie, Galt out of Ayrshire, are not more untrue to themselves
than is Boswell at such moments. But 'within the focus of the Lichfield lamps' he regains his
strength like a Samson.

Boswell, with all his experience, never attained the mellow Sadduceeism of the diner-out. As
a reward, he never lost the literary conscience, the capacity for labour, the assiduity and
veracity that have set his work upon a pedestal of its own. In his moments of self-complacency
he could compare his Johnsoniad with the Odyssey; and he will not repress his 'satisfaction
in the consciousness of having largely provided for the instruction and entertainment of mankind.'
Literary models before him he had none. Scott suggests the life of the philosopher Demophon
in Lucian, but Boswell was not likely to have known it. He modestly himself says he has enlarged
on the plan of Mason's Life of Gray; but his merits are his own. For the history of the period
it is, as Cardinal Duperron said of Rabelais, le livre--the book--'in worth as a book,' decides
Carlyle, 'beyond any other production of the eighteenth century.'

Time has dealt gently with both Johnson and Boswell. 'The chief glory of every people,' said
the former in the preface to his Dictionary 'arises from its authors: whether I shall add anything
to the reputation of English literature must be left to time.' In the constituency of the present
no dead writer addresses such an audience as Johnson does. Of Johnson Boswell might have said,
as Cervantes did of his great creation Don Quixote, he and his subject were born for each other.
There is no greater figure, no more familiar face in our literature than 'the old man eloquent';
and as the inseparable companion 'held in my heart of hearts, whose fidelity and tenderness
I consider as a great part of the comforts which are yet left to me,' rises the figure of his
biographer, the Bozzy no more of countless follies and fatuities, but Boswell, the prince of
biographers, the inheritor of unfulfilled renown, now become, like his hero himself, an ancient.
And they are still in the heyday of their great fame. Along the stream of time the little bark,
as he hoped, sails attendant, pursues the triumph and partakes the gale.

With James Boswell it has happened, as Mark Pattison says of Milton, to have passed beyond
the critics into a region of his own.

THE END.

