Among the admissions of this time the most illustrious name is that of Robert Blake, who matriculated
at Alban Hall, but took his B.A. from Wadham in 1618, a few months before the Durham incident.
The great admiral and soldier may therefore have learnt in Wadham the opinions which determined
his choice of sides in the Parliamentary wars. The College possesses his portrait, and four
gold medals struck to commemorate his victory over Van Tromp in 1653. It has never left the
custody of the Warden, save when it was sent, concealed on the person of Professor and Commander
Burroughs, to the Naval Exhibition some years ago; and last year, when after an interesting
correspondence between the College and Colonel Maxse commanding the Coldstream Guards, leave
was cordially given to that distinguished regiment to have an electrotype made of the Blake
medal for its own exclusive use, and to be kept in perpetuum among the memorials of its long
history. It is the oldest regiment in the service, the only survivor of Cromwell's New Model;
it was commanded by Monk, afterwards Duke of Albemarle, when he crossed the border to march
to London, perhaps with no definite intention to restore the Monarchy--perhaps also prompted
by his brother Nicholas, a Wadham man, to solve the great problem in that simple way. The rest
of the New Model were disbanded after the Restoration, but, doubtless in deference to Monk,
the Coldstreams were reformed, and became the King's Bodyguard. To Monk, who like Blake was
half soldier, half sailor, one of the four medals had been awarded for his services against
the Dutch. It was lost, and the replica will take its place. The other three medals are preserved--one
in the possession of the representatives of the Penn family, one in the British Museum, one
in Wadham: the last was sent to the British Museum for reproduction: it was carried by our
historian Mr Wells, returned by him, and it now lies in the Warden's lodgings, in the cabinet
of treasures bequeathed by Dr Griffiths, our benefactor in many ways unknown but to his friends.
This tie of courtesy and history between a regiment and a college, arms and the gown, is worth
recording and probably unique.

No other name of real distinction than Blake's occurs in the registers of 1613 to 1648. But
Colonel Henry Ancktill, "the priest and malignant doctor," as he was known among the Roundheads,
one of the first Fellows, ought to be remembered, partly on his own account, for he was a vigorous
and devoted Royalist, a fighting man when his cause was hopeless; partly because he may have
been the original of Dr Rochcliffe in 'Woodstock.' Sir Walter Scott read the 'Athenæ Oxonienses,'
and the resemblance between Ancktill and Rochcliffe is striking; but who can say what a great
writer finds or creates in fiction or in history!

A perusal of the register shows that in Wadham both of the great parties in Church and State
were represented. There were represented also all classes of society, from Dymokes, Herberts,
Russells, Portmans, Strangways, to the humblest plebeiorum filii, a fact which proves the falsity
of the assertion made forty years ago, that Oxford was once a place for "gentlemen only."

The history of the College at this time was not one of unbroken peace: occasional quarrels
between members of the governing body are recorded,--evidences of the unrest of a time when
greater questions than the interpretation of a Statute or the disputed election of a College
officer were already in the air. The only dissension of any interest was one which led to an
appeal to the Visitor: the Visitor was Laud, the Bishop of Bath and Wells, who showed great
gentleness and patience in dealing with a person even more provoking than he found the worst
of Scotch Presbyterians.

We have now reached, "longas per ambages," the times of Wilkins' manhood: he was born a year
later than the opening of the College which he was to rule.

FOOTNOTE:

[1] See Messrs Peel and Minchin's 'Oxford,' p. 130.

CHAPTER II.

WILKINS' LIFE TILL HIS APPOINTMENT TO THE WARDENSHIP.

In the Common Room of Wadham College hangs the portrait of John Wilkins, Warden from 1648 to
1659. It is probably a faithful likeness, for Wilkins is described by Aubrey as "a lustie,
strong-grown, well-set, broad-shouldered person, cheerful and hospitable; no great-read man,
but one of much and deepe thinking, and of a working head; and a prudent man as well as ingeniose."
In the portrait these characteristics, physical and mental, are well displayed: sanity of mind--that
is, clearness, shrewdness, courage, kindliness, the contentment which makes the best of good
and evil fortune, are, to the imaginative mind, written in the face, as presented in his picture,
of this great man. His greatness fell short of genius, for it was the effect of ordinary qualities,
rarely combined and tempered into one character; but more effective for useful work in the
world than genius without sanity.

He was born in 1614 at Fawsley in Northamptonshire. His father was Walter Wilkins, a goldsmith
in Oxford, like his son "ingeniose, and of a very mechanicall head, which ran much upon the
perpetuall motion,"--a problem less hopeful than most, not all, of those which attracted his
more practical son, who inherited from him his "insatiable curiosity."

It is from Aubrey that we derive the fullest account of the facts of Wilkins' life, as well
as of his character. It is given in one of those "Brief Lives" which might well serve as models
to modern biographers; lives compressed into two pages of nervous English, adorned here and
there, rather than disfigured, by quaint pedantic words and phrases, relics of the euphuism
of the sixteenth century. Aubrey is credulous, appallingly frank, a strong partisan, a man
of great industry and learning, by no means trustworthy, but none the less entertaining and
delightful. He tells us that Wilkins had his "grammar learning from Mr Sylvester, 'the common
drudge of the University,' who kept a private school: that he entered Magdalen Hall from New
Inn Hall in 1627 at the age of thirteen, and there was placed under the tutorship of 'the learned
Mr John Tombs, the Coryphæus of the Anabaptists.'" Tombs was a man of great ability, notable
for his "curious, searching, piercing witt, of whom it was predicted that he would doe a great
deale of mischiefe to the Church of England, as great witts have done by introducing new opinions."
He was a formidable disputant, so formidable that when he came to Oxford in 1664, and there
"sett up a challenge to maintain 'contra omnes gentes' the doctrines of the Anabaptists, not
a man would grapple with him, their Coryphæus; yet putting aside his Anabaptisticall opinions
he was conformable enough to the Church of England"; so much so that he held a living at Leominster,
and was the friend of two Bishops, Sanderson and Seth Ward. It is doubtful whether Mr Tombs
would now, if he came back, move in Episcopal circles. His career gives us a glimpse into those
puzzling times of confusion and cross-purposes, when compromise and toleration co-existed,
both in parties and in individuals, with bitter fanaticism, more commonly than is supposed,
or can be explained.

It is easy to see what was the influence exercised by Tombs on a clever boy like Wilkins. He
was probably trained to be a Latitudinarian; for Tombs, despite his strong opinions, could
admire and praise sincerity in opponents: he was heard to say that "though he was much opposite
to the Romish religion, truly for his part should he see a poor zealous friar goeing to preach
he should pay him respect." Utterances of this kind, if heard by Wilkins, would make a strong
impression on a youth by nature singularly tolerant.

Wilkins took his B.A. degree in 1631, his M.A. in 1634. For a few years he took pupils--read
to pupils (as the phrase was),--the common resource then, as now, of young Oxonians, who think
themselves qualified to teach, and must support themselves till a Fellowship comes, or till
they have chosen a profession.

In 1637 he took Holy Orders in the Church of England, and became curate of Fawsley, the place
in which he had been born. A country living was too small a sphere for a young man of twenty-three,
conscious of his powers, ambitious and desirous to see the world of letters, science, and politics
in those eventful days. Aubrey tells us that "he has sayd often times that the first rise,
or hint of his rising, was from goeing accidentally a courseing of a hare, when an ingeniose
gentleman of good quality falling into discourse with him, and finding him to have a very good
witt, told him that he would never gett any considerable preferment by continuing in the University,
and that his best way was to betake himself to some lord's or great person's house that had
good benefices to conferre. Sayd Mr Wilkins, I am not knowne in the world; I know not to whom
to addresse myself upon such a designe. The gentleman replied, 'I will commende you myselfe,'
and did so to (as I think) Lord Viscount Say and Seale, where he stayed with very good likeing
till the late civill warres."

It is not clear whether this worldly but sound advice was given to Wilkins before or after
he became a country clergyman, for the words "continuing in the University" might mean either
residence there, or occasional visits to it. Coursing of a hare was, perhaps is, an amusement
equally of University men and of the country clergy: the last alone can tell us whether they
still "goe a courseing accidentally"--(the word is worth noting)--and whether conversations
of this profitable kind occur in the intervals of sport. But the date of the incident is of
less importance than its result; it was the turning-point of Wilkins' life. When he became
chaplain to Lord Say and Seale he was introduced into a sphere of politics and action.

William Fiennes, the first Viscount, was a man of light and leading in the Parliamentary party;
"the oracle," as Clarendon styles him, "of those who were called Puritans in the worst sense,
and steered all their counsels and designs." He deserved his nickname, Old Subtlely, for he
had a clear insight into the real issues from the very beginning of the great quarrel: he headed
in Oxfordshire the resistance to the levying of Ship-money, and was the champion of the Independents,
the most determined of the king's opponents. His sons, John and Nathaniel Fiennes, were no
less resolute and effective Puritans than the head of their house; more so indeed, for they
were believed, and soon known to be, "for root and branch."

At Broughton, Wilkins, now chaplain and resident there, met the most prominent men of the party
which was against the Government. He must have heard "great argument about it and about"; whether
"evermore he came out by the same door wherein he went" we cannot tell, for he possessed to
an extraordinary degree the faculty of seeing the two sides of a question: as he stayed at
Broughton "with very good likeing" for five or six years, it may be presumed that the discreet
and morigerous man concealed the difficulty which he felt in accepting some of the views maintained
at Broughton. Some light is thrown on his real opinions by words found in the sermon preached
at his funeral by Lloyd, his friend and pupil. "When some thought these dissents ground enough
for war, he declared himself against it, and confirmed others in their allegiance: he profest
to the last a great hatred of that horrible rebellion." He doubtless resembled another Latitudinarian--Cudworth--whom
Burnet describes as "a man of great competence and prudence upon which his enemies did very
falsely accuse him of craft and dissimulation."

When the Civil War broke out Wilkins removed to London and became Chaplain to Lord Berkeley,
and later to Charles Lewis, Prince Elector Palatine, nephew of Charles I., and elder brother
of Prince Rupert. The Elector was then an émigré in England, hoping to be restored to his dominions
by the aid of his uncle, who was then struggling to hold his own inheritance. During his seven
years' residence in London, Wilkins became the friend, perhaps the leader, of the natural philosophers,
who later formed themselves into the Royal Society. Thus, before he had reached "the middle
of the way of life," he had seen much of the world. Like Ulysses, whom in many ways he resembled,
"he saw the cities of many men and knew their mind."

Dr Walter Pope, his half-brother, who wrote a life of Bishop Ward, and, curiously enough, a
life also of Claude Duval, the famous highwayman, which had a wider circulation, says of Wilkins
that he was "a learned man and a lover of such; of comely aspect and gentlemanlike behaviour.
He had been bred in the court, and was also a piece of a traveller." The last sentence refers
mainly to Wilkins' life after the Restoration; but he had travelled before then, and his acquaintance
with the Fiennes', with the Elector, and with London society, had taught him "gentlemanlike
behaviour" before he became a Head of a House,--a lesson which, apparently, some other Heads
in his time had not learnt; for Pope goes on to say, "He had nothing of bigotry, unmannerliness
or censoriousness, which then were in the zenith amongst some of the Heads and Fellows of Colleges
in Oxford." It is to be hoped that such criticisms would not now be made on the manners of
the senior members of the University, and that in this respect Oxford has been reformed, to
the approval of all concerned.

While Wilkins was experimenting and philosophising in London, events had been marching rapidly
in England and in Oxford. In Wood's 'Life and Times' is written the history of the city of
Oxford, of the University and of himself, from the day of his birth till his death in 1681.
The three histories are mingled in a quaint and incoherent fashion. Wood is a chronicler like
Aubrey, his friend, with whom he quarrelled, as antiquarians and historians do. Both were industrious,
uncritical, and--Wood especially--sometimes venomous; both were vivid and picturesque, keen
observers, and had a wonderful power of saying much in few words.

Antony Wood, the son of Thomas Wood, Bachelor of Arts and of Civil Law, was born in 1632 at
Oxford, where his father lived, in the Collegiate parish of St John Baptist de Merton. He was
educated at New College School, in Oxford, and later at Thame Grammar School; was admitted
into Merton College at the age of fifteen as a "filius generosi," and became Bible Clerk in
1650. When ten years old he saw the king, with his army of foot, his two sons, Charles and
James, his nephews, Rupert and Maurice, enter Oxford after the battle of Edgehill. The incident
was impressed on his memory by the expulsion of his father from the house in Merton Street,
and the removal of the boys of New College School to the choristers' chamber at the east end
of the College hall, "a dark nasty room, very unfit for such a purpose, which made the scholars
often complaine, but in vaine." From this time onward Wood, a clever and observant boy, kept
both his ears and eyes open, and accumulated from all quarters materials for his narrative
which covers fifty years, the most interesting and important half century in the history of Oxford.

     "Your orthodox historian puts
       In foremost rank the soldier thus,
     The redcoat bully in his boots
       That hides the march of men from us."

The "redcoat bully," as Thackeray somewhat harshly calls him, figures largely in the early
pages of Wood's 'Life and Times,' but does not hide the march of men. In August 1642, "the
members of the University began to put themselves in a posture of defence," and till June 1646,
when Oxford was surrendered to Fairfax, it was a garrison town, the centre and object of much
fighting, and of many excursions and alarms, as being "the chiefest hold the King had."

Fain would the writer extract almost bodily Wood's description of the four years' occupation,
but some things he cannot forbear from mentioning, for they throw light on the history of Wilkins'
Oxford, and on the problems with which he had to deal after the war was ended. Mr Haldane would
read with interest and approval how the Oxford undergraduates of 1642 responded to a call to
arms, as he hopes their successors will respond, if and when need comes.

"Dr Pink of New College, the deputy Vice-Chancellor, called before him to the public schools
all the priviledged men's arms to have a view of them; when, not only priviledged men of the
University and their servants, but also many scholars appeared, bringing with them the furniture
of armes of every College that then had any." The furniture for one man was sent by Wood's
father--viz., "a helmet, a back and breast plate, a pike, and a musquet." The volunteers, both
graduates, some of them divines, and undergraduates, mustered in New College quadrangle, and
were drilled in the Newe Parkes (the Parks of our day) to the number of four hundred, "in a
very decent arraye, and it was delightsome to behold the forwardnesse of so many proper yonge
gentlemen so intent, docile, and pliable to their business." Town and gown took opposite sides:
the citizens were, most of them, ready to support the Parliament, or the King and Parliament,
but not the King against the Parliament. Long before the Civil War began there were in Oxford
and in the kingdom, as always in our history, though called by different names, three parties,
divided from each other by no very fast or definite lines; the King's, the Parliament's and
the party of moderate men, to which Wilkins belonged; the Constitutional party in the strict
meaning of the word, who wished both to preserve and reform the constitution. In those days
of confusion and perplexity, when men's hearts were failing them for fear and for looking after
those things which were to come, many knew not what to think or do. It was a miserable time
both for Roundheads and Cavaliers, and most of all for those who were not sure what they were.
If Hyde and Falkland wavered for a time, how must the timid and lukewarm have wavered? Though
the great questions were fairly clear, the way to solve them, and the end to which any way
would lead, were dark and gloomy. It is an error to think that the Civil War was a sudden outbreak,
a short struggle on simple issues between two sharply divided parties, assured of their beliefs
and interests. The French Revolution was that, or nearly that; but our revolutions are managed
deliberately, and lead to conclusive and permanent results: the art of revolution belongs to
the English race.

In Oxford there must have been much bewilderment and questioning among citizens and gownsmen
when Lord Say and Seale, the new Lord-Lieutenant of the county appointed by the Parliament,
came into the town on September 14, 1642, and ordered that the works and trenches made by the
scholars should be demolished; yet next day he "sent a drumme up and downe the towne for volunteers
to serve the King and Parliament." What did that mean? Almost any answer might have been given
to the question. His lordship's opinions soon became clearer than his puzzling proclamation;
on September the 24th he sent for the Heads of Houses to rebuke them for having "broken the
peace and quiet of the University," so much broken it that "they had nowe left no face of a
Universitie, by taking up armes and the like courses." He had before this interview "caused
diverse popish bookes and pictures taken out of churches, and of papish houses, here and abroad,
to be burned in the street over against the signe of the Starre, where his Lordship laye."
We know not what is meant by "papish bookes and pictures," but the Puritan Lord Say may not
have discriminated sharply between them and the books and ornaments of the High Party in the
Church of England.

For seven or eight weeks before the battle of Edgehill, Oxford swarmed with soldiers. It had
been held for a fortnight by the King's men, who were succeeded by the Parliamentary troopers
brought in by Lord Say. Some disturbances took place, in which the soldiers from Puritan London
especially distinguished themselves: one of them, when flushed with wine presented by the Mayor
"too freely," went so far as to "discharge a brace of bulletts at the stone image of Our Lady
over the church St Mairie's parish, and at one shott strooke off her hed, and the hed of her
child which she held in her right arme: another discharged his musket at the image of our Saviour
over All Soule's gate, and would have defaced all the worke there, had it not been for some
townsmen, who entreated them to forbeare, they replienge that they had not been so well treated
here at Oxford as they expected: many of them came into Christ Church to viewe the Church and
paynted windowes, much admiringe at the idolatry thereof, and a certain Scot, beinge amongst
them, saide that he marvaylled how the Schollers could goe for their bukes to these paynted
idolatrous wyndoes." From a Scot of that time this utterance was not surprising: bukes had
been substituted for paynted wyndowes destroyed in his country many years before his visit
to Oxford. But to the honour of the Puritans be it said, there were no serious outrages on
person or property in Oxford, and that its citizens had to endure nothing more than fear and
discomfort: in no other country in Europe at that time would a city occupied by troops have
suffered as little as did Oxford in those two months.

In 'John Inglesant' a man of genius has drawn a picture of Oxford when it was the residence
of the King and Queen and Court. His description is so vivid that one is tempted to believe
it to be history: it is that, and not mere fiction, for it is based on a careful study of facts,
and, allowance made for the writer's strong Royalist bias, it is true ethically or in spirit,
that highest truth which accurate and laborious historians often fail to reach.

John Inglesant entered Wadham before the war began--the date of his admission is obviously
uncertain--and lived there from time to time till the rout at Naseby, in 1645, brought about
the surrender of Oxford to the Parliament in 1646. It was by a sure instinct that he chose
Wadham, that quiet and beautiful college, for his home. He was a dreamer, and in no place could
he have dreamt more peacefully and happily than there, though sometimes perhaps, even in his
first term, he must have been disturbed by the ominous sounds of axe and hammer, pick and spade,
busy on the "fortifications in making about the towne on the north and north-west thereof,"
and, later, on the east, toward Headington Hill and close to Wadham. A trace of them remains
in the terrace on the east of the Warden's garden, which did not then exist for Inglesant to
walk in, and muse on the problems of the day.

