 Furthermore, as it Sun
know was that their colored ancestry, without any particularly sharp observation not seen
was, and her child had the same color, so it was for them more easily find their way without excitation
suspected of being able to continue.

In this assumption, it was about noon on a cute, neat farm-house in order rest and a lunch for their child
and to get itself, for by the Risk decreased with increasing distance,
also had the supernatural power of their nervous system after, and
she felt tired and hungry.

The hostess, who was friendly and talkative, seemed to be glad that someone has returned to
her, it could talk with her, and took Wherefore Elisa's statements,
"that they make a little trip to visit friends a few days, "without
further examination as a study and correctly.

Just before sunset they reached the village of T - on Ohioflusse, tired though, and with sore
Feet, but still strong in heart. Her first glance was at the river, the same as the Jordan was between
her and the Canaan of liberty on the other side. It was now in the first Time of the spring,
wherefore the river was swollen and restless, and large floes floating Ice in the muddy water and
heavy on niederschwankten. By virtue of the peculiar Design of the bank on the Kentucky side,
where the land stretched far into the water, the ice had accumulated in large masses, and the narrow
channel that this promontory flowed around was with the layered floes so full that there is a formal
Wall had formed, which approached the floating ice was staying, and this is a sort of U Raft
was formed which covered the whole river, and almost to close to
the bank of the Kentucky-page extended.

Elisa stood still for a moment, contemplating this unhappy state of
affairs, which, as she recognized immediately that run over had to
prevent the usual ferry, and went is then reflected in a small inn
on the bank to make inquiries.

The hostess, who employs with frying and stewing, as preparations
for dinner was held, holding the fork in hand, as Eliza's soft and
plaintive voice, she spoke to.

"What is the matter?" She said.

"Go here now no ferry, travelers to the B - brings asked Elisa?.

"No, not now," said the woman. "The boats will not now."

The expression of fear and hope, disappointed in Elisa's face fell on the woman, and she asked,

"You
probably want to go? - Someone sick? You seem to be in great trouble? "

"I have a child who is dangerously ill," said Elisa.

"I picked up last night, the first News of it, and now I hiked all day, hoping to find here a ferry.
"

"So, this is certainly unfortunate," said the woman, whose motherly
sympathies were excited was.

"You do me truly sorry.

Solomon, "she then called out the window after a small Behind buildings, and then a man appeared
with a leather apron and very dirty hands.

"Listen, Sol," the woman said to him, "Go for the man with the drums
over this evening?"

"He said he wanted to try it, if it would be
advisable in some degree," replied the man

"There's a man here's
a little way further down the drive over this evening with goods wants
when it comes, he will be here for dinner. Ye do best, you sit down
Stay here. What a dear little boy, "said the woman, the boy a piece
of cake reaching.

But the child cried excessively tired, so tired.

"Poor
worm! He is not accustomed to go so far, and I have driven him so,
" said Eliza.

"Well, then take him there in the room," said the woman,
a small bedroom opening, in which was a comfortable bed. No, we cannot rob the poor to enrich ourselves. Novel-writing? No. M. Bourget and the
others know only one plan, and when that is expurgated there is nothing left of the book.

I wish I could think what he is going to teach us. Can it be Deportment? But he experimented
in that at Newport and failed to give satisfaction, except to a few. Those few are pleased.
They are enjoying their joy as well as they can. They confess their happiness to the interviewer.
They feel pretty striped, but they remember with reverent recognition that they had sugar between
the cuts. True, sugar with sand in it, but sugar. And true, they had some trouble to tell which
was sugar and which was sand, because the sugar itself looked just like the sand, and also
had a gravelly taste; still, they knew that the sugar was there, and would have been very good
sugar indeed if it had been screened. Yes, they are pleased; not noisily so, but pleased; invaded,
or streaked, as one may say, with little recurrent shivers of joy--subdued joy, so to speak,
not the overdone kind. I do not blame them, and I want your insurance company that you have
yourself to blame anything on me, like to believe, but unfortunately this is nothing changed, because
in the great causes for dissatisfaction, which has given me your brother and still continues
to give the mutual trust between you and me can be made. A relation which is impossible by
a natural combination of circumstances is made can not get with the good races will. In my
close acquaintance circles must be one from full security and an unbounded confidence, and that can
happen after what, found in our relationship does not occur. Better so we raise it on, it is an unpleasant
Necessity, which we, both innocent, I hope will give in to, This I am guilty, because no one
can comprehend how I both the friend and the object of your house may be of the insults of
your brother.

Make Madame Schlegel, from the ridiculous rumors that I, you Sey The author recension of that memo
was never taken, and they think at all too wise, as that it is interfering in such matters.

Schiller
= .=

                                                    

                   * * * * *

I had in any case expected to ensure that you continue your share of the Almanac would, and Goethe,
it told me how he was here, also confirmed under your name. The most pleasant Expectation I
therefore look forward to your contribution.

                                                    Nothing has yet been started at the pressure and is probably a month
ago not to do this because writing on paper are expected.

                   

Sch = .=

* * * * *

At Kosegarten written I about 3 weeks, and then ask you if you reply to him to refer to it and
to greet him from me. The announcement, which I just read through
is funny enough.

                                                    

                   God's Spirit Island is be-ing me a very nice review of the Horae,
and the other Piece if it can be made, I take pleasure.

So if you want the time being Write to the former, you do me a favor. Once it is printed, will
I ask Cotta, pay the fee to 4 Ldor pr arc equal.

J. 3 July 1997

Schiller = .=

* * * * *

You have given me with your poem with great pleasure that the subject is a noble Dignity and a philosophical
impetus treated, language and verse are excellent. Some To the ancient syllabic with such a substance
related to modern. That you can very satisfactory answer, that the philosophical treatment
of the same substance in themselves already moved out of his primitive world in a modern raison
alternating end age. For your Treatment would have sent the hexameter is not quite as it absolutely
a actual and allegorical embodiment of the idea would gefodert, and I think, therefore, that
you feel you have managed quite right.

However, I wish this very symbolic and allegorical treatment for that one have done less than
reminiscent of the old Prometheus would. This steals the real and natural fires, and with this
he makes man a gift, and the fire of the Actus robbery could therefore
be sensualizes of the old poet, with its cumbersome, but because bey
your treatment of the symbolic mind is equal aufgefodert, the natural
fire to leave and take in a supernatural significance, it is the imagination
of the reader by those descriptions into the crowd, apply to the fire
as a fire.

I would advise that account on this delicate point is as quiet as possible to go away. Nor would
It seems to me, do a better effect if the fire is not the car itself, but take about a torch left,
because the imagination far more with a burning torch can associate
with as a light-emitting vehicles, the idea of ​​the spirit's fire,
and at all the fire is so precious and noble, the simpler and more
economical is its source.

Still would be my advice to the reader
right on the front lines of the poem in the right position back and
to prevent any misinterpretation that the poem: An Allegory overwrite
= =, because it is in the strictest sense, and the judge must have
this concept in mind.
And when a thousand able novels have been written, there you have the soul of the people, the
life of the people, the speech of the people; and not anywhere else can these be had. And the
shadings of character, manners, feelings, ambitions, will be infinite. Her husband Sufferings
and dangers, the danger of her child, all blended in her mind with a dark, intoxicating feelings
of the great venture, which they took by the only Left home she had ever known, and broke loose
from the protection of a friend, who had loved her and honored. This was the separation of each
of its familiar objects, - From the place where she grew up, the trees under which they had played,
the Bushes where they had changed so many times in the evening to the side of her young husband,
- Every object lying in the cold, starry night in front of her, she seemed to reproach to ask where
they would turn away from such a happy home?

But more than anything was the feeling of mother love, which is so close before the threat, increased
risk to a terrible paroxysm of rage. Your boy was old enough to Go to their site properly and
in other circumstances it would only lead him by the hand have, but now she made the very idea to
let him out of her arms shudder, and while she hastily stepped forward, she pressed him to
her bosom with a convulsive pressure.

The frozen ground creaked beneath her feet and she trembled at these tones, each rushing Journal
and each receding shadow made her blood freeze in the heart and drove her feet to even greater speed
to. She wondered about the strength inside themselves, to flow through it seemed, for she felt
the weight of your child as a spring, and each new rising Emotion of fear seemed to increase
the supernatural power that carried them away, while from her pale lips frequent calls to a friend
flowed in heaven, "God, help me!

God, save me! "

If it = would = your Harry, mother, or your William, of crude to you tomorrow morning by a
Slave traders should be taken from - if you had seen the man and heard that the papers were signed
and delivered, and you had time only from midnight to the morning to accomplish your escape, would
be how quickly your steps = =? As many miles you would not in those few who can travel short hours,
with the favorite on your breast, - the small, tired hands of sleep
on your shoulder, and the delicate, soft Arms around your neck?

Because the boy was asleep. Initially it had received the novelty of the circumstances and the
growing restlessness; but his mother was so afraid the breath and
every sound back, and had him so firmly assured that if he was just
silent, it would certainly save him, that he reassured her Neck encircled,
and already half asleep, only questions addressed to her.

"Mother, I do not need to stay awake, is not it?"

"No, my darling, sleep when you're tired."

"But, mother, when I'll
fall asleep, but you do not admit that he take me?"

"No, God help
me," said the mother with paler and paler glow in their cheeks dark
eye. So he gathered a number of samples of what seemed to
be her, and put them under his glass, and divided them into groups which he calls "types,"
and labeled them in his usual scientific way with "formulas"--brief sharp descriptive flashes
that make a person blink, sometimes, they are so sudden and vivid. As a rule they are pretty
far-fetched, but that is not an important matter; they surprise, they compel admiration, and
I notice by some of the comments which his efforts have called forth that they deceive the
unwary. Here are a few of the coquette variants which he has grouped and labeled:

     THE COLLECTOR.
     THE EQUILIBREE.
     THE PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
     THE BLUFFER.
     THE GIRL-BOY. 

Mr. Brinkmann, who has bey was very well you might like us a pleasant Appearance, his liveliness
and his sympathy especially in such vielerley articles the literature, make his conversation
very pleasant.

I'm curious to see God's last comedy to believe that in the theater Effect will do? We now expect
the composition of the magic island, we think the opera after Easter
to give. The Magic Flute has again attracted many spectators from
the neighborhood Herbey. They throw altogether too much light. They reveal to the
native the origin of his find. I suppose he knows how he came to make that novel and captivating
discovery, by this time. Wohlgeb.

end of the woodcuts of old and new style with many thanks, what do you do Mr. Unger's Part are
complacently wear. Some leaves are belong to you, still well preserved
in Jena, when I come across to these are returned.

In my essay, which I define the second piece of the Propylaea, I can with our good Unger Being
not think same thing, but at last is probably still find a Conciliation . Let The trouble is
that the British, in their new style, by a much lighter mechanical
treatment type, do much in certain parts more than the Germans, after
the old way, ever be able to pull off. I do it's attention to this in a letter as I am Find out soon hope
to talk to you.

I have just receive the portion of Sternbald secondly what I write
next time, more or speak.

Which I very well wish to live. The stranger gave those people his
confidence, and they dishonorably treated him in return.

