Peter said he would get Nan Berry to stay while he was gone. The Berry cabin lay diagonally
across the street. Peter ran over, thumped on the door, and shouted his mother's needs. As
soon as he received an answer, he started on over the Big Hill toward the white town.

Peter was seriously frightened. His run to Dr. Jallup's, across the Big Hill, was a series
of renewed strivings for speed. Every segment of his journey seemed to seize him and pin him
down in the midst of the night like a bug caught in a black jelly. He seemed to progress not
at all.

Now he was in the cedar glade. His muffled flight drove in the sentries of the crap-shooters,
and gamesters blinked out their lights and listened to his feet stumbling on through the darkness.

After an endless run in the glade, Peter found himself on top of the hill, amid boulders and
outcrops limestone and cedar-shrubs. His flash- light picked out these objects, limned them
sharply against the blackness, then dropped them into obscurity again.

He tried to run faster. His impatience subdivided the distance into yards and feet. Now he
was approaching that boulder, now he was passing it; now he was ten feet beyond, twenty, thirty.
Perhaps his mother was dying, alone save for stupid Nan Berry.

Now he was going down the hill past the white church. All that was visible was its black spire
set against a web of stars. He was making no speed at all. He panted on. His heart hammered.
His legs drummed with Lilliputian paces. Now he was among the village stores, all utterly black.
At one point the echo of his feet chattered back at him, as if some other futile runner strained
amid vast spaces of blackness.

After a long time he found himself running up a residential street, and presently, far ahead,
he saw the glow of Dr. Jallup's porch light. Its beam had the appearance of coming from a vast
distance. When he reached the place, he flung his breast against the top panel of the doctor's
fence and held on, exhausted. He drew in his breath, and began shouting, "Hello, Doctor!"

Peter called persistently, and as he commanded more breath, he called louder and louder, "Hello,
Doctor! Hello, Doctor! Hello, Doctor!" in tones edging on panic.

The doctor's house might have been dead. Somewhere a dog began barking. High in the Southern
sky a star looked down remotely on Peter's frantic haste. The black man stood in the black
night with cries: "Hello, Doctor! Hello, Doctor! Hello, Doctor!"

At last, in despair, he tried to think of other doctors. He thought of telephoning to Jonesboro.
Just as he decided he must turn away there came a stirring in the dead house, a flicker of
light appeared on the inside now here, now there; it steadied into a tiny beam and approached
the door. The door opened, and Dr. Jallup's head and breast appeared, illuminated against the
black interior.

"My mother's sick, Doctor," began Peter, in immense relief.

"Who is it?" inquired the half-clad man, impassively.

"Caroline Siner; she's been taken with a--"

The physician lifted his light a trifle in an effort to see Peter.

"Lemme see: she's that fat nigger woman that lives in a three-roomed house--"

"I'll show you the way," said Peter. "She's very ill."

The half-dressed man shook his head.

"No, Ca'line Siner owes me a five-dollar doctor's bill already. Our county medical association
made a rule that no niggers should--"

With a drying mouth, Peter Siner stared at the man of medicine.

"But, my God, Doctor," gasped the son, "I'll pay you--"

"Have you got the money there in your pocket?" asked Jallup, impassively.

A sort of chill traveled deliberately over Peter's body and shook his voice.

"N-no, but I can get it--"

"Yes, you can all get it," stated the physician in dull irritation. "I'm tired of you niggers
running up doctors' bills nobody can collect. You never have more than the law allows; your
wages never get big enough to garnishee." His voice grew querulous as he related his wrongs.
"No, I'm not going to see Ca'line Siner. If she wants me to visit her, let her send ten dollars
to cover that and back debts, and I'll--" The end of his sentence was lost in the closing of
his door. The light he carried declined from a beam to a twinkling here and there, and then
vanished in blackness. Dr. Jallup's house became dead again. The little porch light in its
glass box might have been a candle burning before a tomb.

Peter Siner stood at the fence, licking his dry lips, with nerves vibrating like a struck bell.
He pushed himself slowly away from the top plank and found his legs so weak that he could hardly
walk. He moved slowly, back down the unseen street. The dog he had disturbed gave a few last
growls and settled into silence.

Peter moved along, wetting his dry lips, and stirring feebly among his dazed thoughts, hunting
some other plan of action. There was a tiny burning spot on the left side of his occiput. It
felt like a heated cambric needle which had been slipped into his scalp. Then he realized that
he must go home, get ten dollars, and bring them back to Dr. Jallup. He started to run, but
almost toppled over on his leaden legs.

He plodded through the darkness, retracing the endless trail to Niggertown. As he passed a
dark mass of shrubbery and trees, he recalled his mother's advice to ask aid of Captain Renfrew.
It was the old Renfrew place that Peter was passing.

The negro hesitated, then turned in at the gate in the bare hope of obtaining the ten dollars
at once. Inside the gate Peter's feet encountered the scattered bricks of an old walk. The
negro stood and called Captain Renfrew's name in a guarded voice. He was not at all sure of
his action.

Peter had called twice and was just about to go when a lamp appeared around the side of the
house on a long portico that extended clear around the building. Bathed in the light of the
lamp which he held over his head, there appeared an old man wearing a worn dressing gown.

"Who is it?" he asked in a wavery voice.

Peter told his name and mission.

The old Captain continued holding up his light.

"Oh, Peter Siner; Caroline Siner's sick? All right I'll have Jallup run over; I'll phone him."

Peter was beginning his thanks preparatory to going, when the old man interrupted.

"No, just stay here until Jallup comes by in his or He'll pick us both up. It'll save time.
Come on inside. What's the matter with old Caroline?"

The old dressing-gown led the way around the continuous piazza, to a room that stood open and
brightly lighted on the north face of the old house.

A great relief came to Peter at this unexpected succor. He followed around the piazza, trying
to describe Caroline's symptoms. The room Peter entered was a library, a rather stately old
room, lined with books all around the walls to about as high as a man could reach. Spaces for
doors and windows were let in among the book-cases. The volumes themselves seemed composed
mainly of histories and old-fashioned scientific books, if Peter could judge from a certain
severity of their bindings. On a big library table burned a gasolene-lamp, which threw a brilliant
whiteness all over the room. The table was piled with books and periodicals. Books and papers
were heaped on every chair in the study except a deep Morris chair in which the old Captain
had been sitting. A big meridional globe, about two and a half feet in diameter, gleamed through
a film of dust in the embrasure of a window. The whole room had the womanless look of a bachelor's
quarters, and was flavored with tobacco and just a hint of whisky.

Old Captain Renfrew evidently had been reading when Peter called from the gate. Now the old
man went to a telephone and rang long and briskly to awaken the boy who slept in the central
office. Peter fidgeted as the old Captain stood with receiver to ear.

"Hard to wake." The old gentleman spoke into the transmitter, but was talking to Peter. "Don't
be so uneasy, Peter. Human beings are harder to kill than you think."

There was a kindliness, even a fellowship, in Captain Renfrew's tones that spread like oil
over Peter's raw nerves. It occurred to the negro that this was the first time he had been
addressed as an authentic human being since his conversation with the two Northern men on the
Pullman, up in Illinois. It surprised him. It was sufficient to take his mind momentarily from
his mother. He looked a little closely at the old man at the telephone. The Captain wore few
indices of kindness. Lines of settled sarcasm netted his eyes and drooped away from his old
mouth. The very swell of his full temples and their crinkly veins marked a sardonic old man.

At last he roused central over the wire, and impressed upon him the necessity of creating a
stridor in Dr. Jallup's dead house, and a moment later a continued buzzing in the receiver
betokened the operator's efforts to do so.

The old gentleman turned around at last, holding the receiver a little distance from his ear.

"I understand you went to Harvard, Peter."

"Yes, sir." Peter took his eyes momentarily from the telephone. The old Southerner in the dressing-gown
scrutinized the brown man. He cleared his throat.

"You know, Peter, it gives me a--a certain satisfaction to see a Harvard man in Hooker's Bend.
I'm a Harvard man myself."

Peter stood in the brilliant light, astonished, not at Captain Renfrew's being a Harvard man,--he
had known that,--but that this old gentleman was telling the fact to him, Peter Siner, a negro
graduate of Harvard.

It was extraordinary; it was tantamount to an offer of friendship, not patronage. Such an offer
in the South disturbed Peter's poise; it touched him queerly. And it seemed to explain why
Captain Renfrew had received Peter so graciously and was now arranging for Dr. Jallup to visit
Caroline.

Peter was moved to the conventional query, asking in what class the Captain had been graduated.
But while his very voice was asking it, Peter thought what a strange thing it was that he,
Peter Siner, a negro, and this lonely old gentleman, his benefactor, were spiritual brothers,
both sprung from the loins of Harvard, that ancient mother of souls.

From the darkness outside, Dr. Jallup's horn summmoned the two men. Captain Renfrew got out
of his gown and into his coat and turned off his gasolene light. They walked around the piazza
to the front of the house. In the street the head-lights of the roadster shot divergent rays
through the darkness. They went out. The old Captain took a seat in the car beside the physician,
while Peter stood on the running-board. A moment later, the clutch snarled, and the machine
puttered down the street. Peter clung to the standards of the auto top, peering ahead.

The men remained almost silent. Once Dr. Jallup, watching the dust that lay modeled in sharp
lights and shadows under the head-lights, mentioned lack of rain. Their route did not lead
over the Big Hill. They turned north at Hobbett's corner, drove around by River Street, and
presently entered the northern end of the semicircle.

The speed of the car was reduced to a crawl in the bottomless dust of the crescent. The head-lights
swept slowly around the cabins on the concave side of the street, bringing them one by one
into stark brilliance and dropping them into obscurity. The smell of refuse, of uncleaned stables
and sties and outhouses hung in the darkness. Peter bent down under the top of the motor and
pointed out his place. A minute later the machine came to a noisy halt and was choked into
silence. At that moment, in the sweep of the head-light, Peter saw Viny Berry, one of Nan's
younger sisters, coming up from Niggertown's public well, carrying two buckets of water.

Viny was hurrying, plashing the water over the sides of her buckets. The importance of her
mission was written in her black face.

"She's awful thirsty," she called to Peter in guarded tones. "Nan called me to fetch some fraish
water fum de well."

Peter took the water that had been brought from the semi-cesspool at the end of the street.
Viny hurried across the street to home and to bed. With the habitual twinge of his sanitary
conscience, Peter considered the water in the buckets.

"We'll have to boil this," he said to the doctor.

"Boil it?" repeated Jallup, blankly. Then, he added: "Oh, yes--boil. Certainly."

                    *       *       *       *       *

A repellent odor of burned paper, breathed air, and smoky lights filled the close room. Nan
had lighted another lamp and now the place was discernible in a dull yellow glow. In the corner
lay a half-burned wisp of paper. Nan herself stood by the mound on the bed, putting straight
the quilts that her patient had twisted awry.

"She sho am bad, Doctor," said the colored woman, with big eyes.

Seen in the light, Dr. Jallup was a little sandy-bearded man with a round, simple face, oddly
overlaid with that inscrutability carefully cultivated by country doctors. With professional
cheeriness, he approached the mound of bedclothes.

"A little under the weather, Aunt Ca'line?" He slipped his fingers alongside her throat to
test her temperature, at the same time drawing a thermometer from his waistcoat pocket.

The old negress stirred, and looked up out of sick eyes.

"Doctor," she gasped, "I sho got a misery heah." She indicated her stomach.

"How do you feel?" he asked hopefully.

The woman panted, then whispered:

"Lak a knife was a-cuttin' an' a-tearin' out my innards." She rested, then added, "Not so bad
now; feels mo' lak somp'n's tearin' in de nex' room."

"Like something tearing in the next room?" repeated Jallup, emptily.

"Yes, suh," she whispered. "I jes can feel hit--away off, lak."

The doctor attempted to take her temperature, but the thermometer in her mouth immediately
nauseated her, so he slipped the instrument under her arm.

Old Caroline groaned at the slightest exertion, then, as she tossed her black head, she caught
a glimpse of old Captain Renfrew.

She halted abruptly in her restlessness, stared at the old gentleman, wet her dry lips with
a queer brown-furred tongue.

"Is dat you, Mars' Milt?" she gasped in feeble astonishment. A moment later she guessed the
truth. "I s'pose you had to bring de doctor. 'Fo' Gawd, Mars' Milt--" She lay staring, with
the covers rising and falling as she gasped for breath. Her feverish eyes shifted back and
forth between the grim old gentleman and the tall, broad-shouldered brown man at the foot of
her bed. She drew a baggy black arm from under the cover.

"Da' 's Peter, Mars' Milt," she pointed. "Da' 's Peter, my son. He--he use' to be my son 'fo'
he went off to school; but sence he come home, he been a-laughin' at me." Tears came to her
eyes; she panted for a moment, then added: "Yeah, he done marked his mammy down fuh a nigger,
Mars' Milt. Whut I thought wuz gwine be sweet lays bitter in my mouf." She worked her thick
lips as if the rank taste of her sickness were the very flavor of her son's ingratitude.

A sudden gasp and twist of her body told Nan that the old woman was again seized with a spasm.
The neighbor woman took swift control, and waved out Peter and old Mr. Renfrew, while she and
the doctor aided the huge negress.

The two evicted men went into Peter's room and shut the door. Peter, unnerved, groped, and
presently found and lighted a lamp. He put it down on his little table among his primary papers
and examination papers. He indicated to Captain Renfrew the single chair in the room.

