At noon that day I arrived at St. Oars, a town, named, as I have been informed, for the man
who owns a great part of it. I stopped at a public house, which, they called, "Lady St. Oars,"
where they were eating dinner. The landlady invited me to dine with them, and asked if I belonged
to the convent in that place. I told her that I did, for I knew if I told the truth they would
suspect me at once. "Do you eat meat?" she asked. I told her I did not. "Do you eat butter
on your bread?" I replied in the affirmative, and she gave me a slice of bread and butter,
a piece of cheese and a silver cup full of milk. I ate it all, and would gladly have eaten
more, for I was very hungry. As I was about to leave, the lady remarked, "There was grease
in that cheese, was it a sin for me to give it to you?" I assured her it was not, for I was
allowed to eat milk, and the cheese being made of milk, there could be no sin in my eating
it I told her that, so far from committing a sin, the blessed Virgin was pleased with her benevolent
spirit, and would, in some way, reward her for her kindness.

Leaving Lady St. Oars, I went on to the next town where I arrived at seven in the evening.
I called at the house of a Frenchman, and asked if I could stay over night, or at least, be
allowed to rest awhile. The man said I was welcome to come in, but he had no place where I
could sleep. They were just sitting down to supper, which consisted of pea soup; but the lady
said there was meat in it, and she would not invite me to partake of it; but she gave me a
good supper of bread and milk. She thought I was a Sister of Charity, and I did not tell her
that I was not. After supper, she saw that my skirt was stiff with mud, and kindly offered
to wash it out for me, saying, I could rest till it was dry. I joyfully accepted her offer,
and reclining in a corner, enjoyed a refreshing slumber.

It was near twelve o'clock before I was ready to go on again, and when I asked how far it was
to the next town, they manifested a great anxiety for my welfare. The man said it was seven
miles to Mt. Bly, but he hoped I did not intend to walk. I told him I did not know whether
I should or not, perhaps I might ride. "But are you not afraid to go on alone?" he asked. "St.
Dennis is a bad place for a lady to be out alone at night, and you must pass a grave-yard in
the south part of the town; dare you go by it, in the dark?" I assured him that I had no fear
whatever, that would prevent me from going past the grave-yard. I had never committed a crime,
never injured any one, and I did not think the departed would come back to harm me. The lady
said she would think of me with some anxiety, for she should not dare to go past that grave-yard
alone in the dark. I again assured her that I had no cause to fear, had no crime on my conscience,
had been guilty of no neglect of duty, and if the living would let me alone, I did not fear
the dead. They thought I referred to the low characters about town, and the lady replied, "I
shall tell my beads for you and the holy Virgin will protect you from all harm. But remember,"
she continued, "whenever you pass this way, you will always find a cordial welcome with us."
I thanked her, and with a warm grasp of the hand we parted.

CHAPTER XXII.

LONELY MIDNIGHT WALK.

It was near morning when I entered Mt. Bly, but I did not stop. I traveled all night, and late
in the morning came to a respectable looking farmhouse which I thought might be occupied by
Protestants. I always noticed that their houses were neater, and more comfortable than those
of the Romanists in the same condition in life. In the present instance I was not disappointed
in my expectations. The lady received me kindly, gave me some breakfast, and directed me to
the next village. I walked all day, and near night arrived at St. Mary's, where I called at
a house, and asked permission to sit and rest awhile. They gave me an invitation to enter,
but did not offer refreshments. I did not like to ask for charity if I could avoid it, and
I thought it possible they might ask me to stay over night. But they did not, and after a half
hour's rest I rose to depart, and thanking them for their kindness inquired how far it was
to the next house. They said it was seven miles to the first house, and nine to the next village.

With a sad heart, I once more pursued my lonely way. Soon it began to rain, and the night came
on, dark and dismal, cold and stormy, with a high wind that drove the rain against my face
with pitiless fury. I entered a thick wood where no ray of light could penetrate, and at almost
every step, I sank over shoes in the mud. Thus I wandered on, reflecting bitterly on my wretched
fate. All the superstitious fears, which a convent life is so well calculated to produce, again
assailed me, and I was frightened at my own wild imaginings. I thought of the nuns who had
been murdered so cruelly, and I listened to the voice of the storm, as to the despairing wail
of a lost soul. The wind swept fiercely through the leafless branches, now roaring like a tornado,
again rising to a shrill shriek, or a prolonged whistle, then sinking to a hollow murmer, and
dying away in a low sob which sounded to my excited fancy like the last convulsive sigh of
a breaking heart. Once and again I paused, faint and dizzy with hunger and fatigue, feeling
as though I could go no further. But there was no alternative. I must go on or perish. And
go on I did, though, as I now look back upon that night's experience, I wonder how I managed
to do so. But a kind providence, undoubtedly, watched over me, and good angels guided me on
my way. Some time in the night, I think it must have been past twelve o'clock, I became so
very weary I felt that I must rest awhile at all events. It was so dark I could not see a step
before me, but I groped my way to a fence, seated myself on a stone with my head resting against
the rails, and in that position I fell asleep.

How long I slept, I do not know. I think it must have been some hours. When I awoke, my clothes
were drenched with rain, and I was so stiff and lame, I could hardly move. But go I must, so
I resolved to make the best of it, and hobble along as well as I could. At last I reached the
village, but it was not yet morning, and I dared not stop. I kept on till daylight, and as
soon as I thought people were up, I went up to a house and rapped. A woman came to the door,
and I asked if she would allow me to go in, and dry my clothes, and I would have added, get
some breakfast, but her looks restrained me. They were getting breakfast, but did not invite
me to partake of it, and I dared not ask for anything to eat. When my clothes were dry, I thanked
them for the use of their fire, and inquired how far it was to the next village. They said
the next town was Highgate, but they did not know the distance.

My tears flowed freely when I again found myself in the street, cold, hungry, almost sick,
and entirely friendless. What should I do? What would become of me? One thought alone gave
courage to my desponding heart, buoyed up my sinking spirits, and restored strength to my weary
limbs. I was striving for liberty, that priceless boon, so dear to every human heart. I might,
perhaps, obtain it. At least, I would try.

