The confronting of Platte canon just at dawn, after a ten miles' ride in early darkness on
the rail from Denver--the seasonable stoppage at the entrance of the canon, and good breakfast
of eggs, trout, and nice griddle-cakes--then as we travel on, and get well in the gorge, all
the wonders, beauty, savage power of the scene--the wild stream of water, from sources of snows,
brawling continually in sight one side--the dazzling sun, and the morning lights on the rocks--such
turns and grades in the track, squirming around corners, or up and down hills--far glimpses
of a hundred peaks, titanic necklaces, stretching north and south--the huge rightly-named Dome-rock--and
as we dash along, others similar, simple, monolithic, elephantine.

AN EGOTISTICAL "FIND"

"I have found the law of my own poems," was the unspoken but more-and-more decided feeling
that came to me as I pass'd, hour after hour, amid all this grim yet joyous elemental abandon--this
plenitude of material, entire absence of art, untrammel'd play of primitive Nature--the chasm,
the gorge, the crystal mountain stream, repeated scores, hundreds of miles--the broad handling
and absolute uncrampedness--the fantastic forms, bathed in transparent browns, faint reds and
grays, towering sometimes a thousand, sometimes two or three thousand feet high--at their tops
now and then huge masses pois'd, and mixing with the clouds, with only their outlines, hazed
in misty lilac, visible. ("In Nature's grandest shows," says an old Dutch writer, an ecclesiastic,
"amid the ocean's depth, if so might be, or countless worlds rolling above at night, a man
thinks of them, weighs all, not for themselves or the abstract, but with reference to his own
personality, and how they may affect him or color his destinies.")

NEW SENSES: NEW JOYS

We follow the stream of amber and bronze brawling along its bed, with its frequent cascades
and snow-white foam. Through the canon we fly--mountains not only each side, but seemingly,
till we get near, right in front of us--every rood a new view flashing, and each flash defying
description--on the almost perpendicular sides, clinging pines, cedars, spruces, crimson sumach
bushes, spots of wild grass--but dominating all, those towering rocks, rocks, rocks, bathed
in delicate vari-colors, with the clear sky of autumn overhead. New senses, new joys, seem
develop'd. Talk as you like, a typical Rocky Mountain canon, or a limitless sea-like stretch
of the great Kansas or Colorado plains, under favoring circumstances, tallies, perhaps expresses,
certainly awakes, those grandest and subtlest element-emotions in the human soul, that all
the marble temples and sculptures from Phidias to Thorwaldsen--all paintings, poems, reminiscences,
or even music, probably never can.

STEAM-POWER, TELEGRAPHS, ETC

I get out on a ten minutes' stoppage at Deer creek, to enjoy the unequal'd combination of hill,
stone and wood. As we speed again, the yellow granite in the sunshine, with natural spires,
minarets, castellated perches far aloft--then long stretches of straight-upright palisades,
rhinoceros color--then gamboge and tinted chromos. Ever the best of my pleasures the cool-fresh
Colorado atmosphere, yet sufficiently warm. Signs of man's restless advent and pioneerage,
hard as Nature's face is--deserted dug-outs by dozens in the side-hills--the scantling-hut,
the telegraph-pole, the smoke of some impromptu chimney or outdoor fire--at intervals little
settlements of log-houses, or parties of surveyors or telegraph builders, with their comfortable
tents. Once, a canvas office where you could send a message by electricity anywhere around
the world! Yes, pronounc'd signs of the man of latest dates, dauntlessly grappling with these
grisliest shows of the old kosmos. At several places steam saw-mills, with their piles of logs
and boards, and the pipes puffing. Occasionally Platte canon expanding into a grassy flat of
a few acres. At one such place, toward the end, where we stop, and I get out to stretch my
legs, as I look skyward, or rather mountain-topward, a huge hawk or eagle (a rare sight here)
is idly soaring, balancing along the ether, now sinking low and coming quite near, and then
up again in stately-languid circles--then higher, higher, slanting to the north, and gradually
out of sight.

AMERICA'S BACK-BONE

I jot these lines literally at Kenosha summit, where we return, afternoon, and take a long
rest, 10,000 feet above sea-level. At this immense height the South Park stretches fifty miles
before me. Mountainous chains and peaks in every variety of perspective, every hue of vista,
fringe the view, in nearer, or middle, or far-dim distance, or fade on the horizon. We have
now reach'd, penetrated the Rockies, (Hayden calls it the Front Range,) for a hundred miles
or so; and though these chains spread away in every direction, specially north and south, thousands
and thousands farther, I have seen specimens of the utmost of them, and know henceforth at
least what they are, and what they look like. Not themselves alone, for they typify stretches
and areas of half the globe--are, in fact, the vertebrae or back-bone of our hemisphere. As
the anatomists say a man is only a spine, topp'd, footed, breasted and radiated, so the whole
Western world is, in a sense, but an expansion of these mountains. In South America they are
the Andes, in Central America and Mexico the Cordilleras, and in our States they go under different
names--in California the Coast and Cascade ranges--thence more eastwardly the Sierra Nevadas--but
mainly and more centrally here the Rocky Mountains proper, with many an elevation such as Lincoln's,
Grey's, Harvard's, Yale's, Long's and Pike's peaks, all over 14,000 feet high. (East, the highest
peaks of the Alleghanies, the Adirondacks, the Catskills, and the White Mountains, range from
2000 to 5500 feet-only Mount Washington, in the latter, 6300 feet.)

THE PARKS

In the midst of all here, lie such beautiful contrasts as the sunken basins of the North, Middle,
and South Parks, (the latter I am now on one side of, and overlooking,) each the size of a
large, level, almost quandrangular, grassy, western county, wall'd in by walls of hills, and
each park the source of a river. The ones I specify are the largest in Colorado, but the whole
of that State, and of Wyoming, Utah, Nevada and western California, through their sierras and
ravines, are copiously mark'd by similar spreads and openings, many of the small ones of paradisiac
loveliness and perfection, with their offsets of mountains, streams, atmosphere and hues beyond
compare.

ART FEATURES

Talk, I say again, of going to Europe, of visiting the ruins of feudal castles, or Coliseum
remains, or kings' palaces--when you can come here. The alternations one gets, too; after the
Illinois and Kansas prairies of a thousand miles--smooth and easy areas of the corn and wheat
of ten million democratic farms in the future----here start up in every conceivable presentation
of shape, these non-utilitarian piles, coping the skies, emanating a beauty, terror, power,
more than Dante or Angelo ever knew. Yes, I think the chyle of not only poetry and painting,
but oratory, and even the metaphysics and music fit for the New World, before being finally
assimilated, need first and feeding visits here.

Mountain streams.--The spiritual contrast and etheriality of the whole region consist largely
to me in its never-absent peculiar streams--the snows of inaccessible upper areas melting and
running down through the gorges continually. Nothing like the water of pastoral plains, or
creeks with wooded banks and turf, or anything of the kind elsewhere. The shapes that element
takes in the shows of the globe cannot be fully understood by an artist until he has studied
these unique rivulets.

Aerial effects.--But perhaps as I gaze around me the rarest sight of all is in atmospheric
hues. The prairies--as I cross'd them in my journey hither--and these mountains and parks,
seem to me to afford new lights and shades. Everywhere the aerial gradations and sky-effects
inimitable; nowhere else such perspectives, such transparent lilacs and grays. I can conceive
of some superior landscape painter, some fine colorist, after sketching awhile out here, discarding
all his previous work, delightful to stock exhibition amateurs, as muddy, raw and artificial.
Near one's eye ranges an infinite variety; high up, the bare whitey-brown, above timber line;
in certain spots afar patches of snow any time of year; (no trees, no flowers, no birds, at
those chilling altitudes.) As I write I see the Snowy Range through the blue mist, beautiful
and far off, I plainly see the patches of snow.

DENVER IMPRESSIONS

Through the long-lingering half-light of the most superb of evenings we return'd to Denver,
where I staid several days leisurely exploring, receiving impressions, with which I may as
well taper off this memorandum, itemizing what I saw there. The best was the men, three-fourths
of them large, able, calm, alert, American. And cash! why they create it here. Out in the smelting
works, (the biggest and most improv'd ones, for the precious metals, in the world,) I saw long
rows of vats, pans, cover'd by bubbling-boiling water, and fill'd with pure silver, four or
five inches thick, many thousand dollars' worth in a pan. The foreman who was showing me shovel'd
it carelessly up with a little wooden shovel, as one might toss beans. Then large silver bricks,
worth $2000 a brick, dozens of piles, twenty in a pile. In one place in the mountains, at a
mining camp, I had a few days before seen rough bullion on the ground in the open air, like
the confectioner's pyramids at some swell dinner in New York. (Such a sweet morsel to roll
over with a poor author's pen and ink--and appropriate to slip in here--that the silver product
of Colorado and Utah, with the gold product of California, New Mexico, Nevada and Dakota, foots
up an addition to the world's coin of considerably over a hundred millions every year.)

A city, this Denver, well-laid out--Laramie street, and 15th and 16th and Champa streets, with
others, particularly fine--some with tall storehouses of stone or iron, and windows of plate-glass--all
the streets with little canals of mountain water running along the sides--plenty of people,
"business," modernness--yet not without a certain racy wild smack, all its own. A place of
fast horses, (many mares with their colts,) and I saw lots of big greyhounds for antelope hunting.
Now and then groups of miners, some just come in, some starting out, very picturesque.

One of the papers here interview'd me, and reported me as saying off-hand: "I have lived in
or visited all the great cities on the Atlantic third of the republic--Boston, Brooklyn with
its hills, New Orleans, Baltimore, stately Washington, broad Philadelphia, teeming Cincinnati
and Chicago, and for thirty years in that wonder, wash'd by hurried and glittering tides, my
own New York, not only the New World's but the world's city--but, newcomer to Denver as I am,
and threading its streets, breathing its air, warm'd by its sunshine, and having what there
is of its human as well as aerial ozone flash'd upon me now for only three or four days, I
am very much like a man feels sometimes toward certain people he meets with, and warms to,
and hardly knows why. I, too, can hardly tell why, but as I enter'd the city in the slight
haze of a late September afternoon, and have breath'd its air, and slept well o' nights, and
have roam'd or rode leisurely, and watch'd the comers and goers at the hotels, and absorb'd
the climatic magnetism of this curiously attractive region, there has steadily grown upon me
a feeling of affection for the spot, which, sudden as it is, has become so definite and strong
that I must put it on record."

So much for my feeling toward the Queen city of the plains and peaks, where she sits in her
delicious rare atmosphere, over 5000 feet above sea-level, irrigated by mountain streams, one
way looking east over the prairies for a thousand miles, and having the other, westward, in
constant view by day, draped in their violet haze, mountain tops innumerable. Yes, I fell in
love with Denver, and even felt a wish to spend my declining and dying days there.

I TURN SOUTH AND THEN EAST AGAIN

Leave Denver at 8 A.M. by the Rio Grande RR. going south. Mountains constantly in sight in
the apparently near distance, veil'd slightly, but still clear and very grand--their cones,
colors, sides, distinct against the sky--hundreds, it seem'd thousands, interminable necklaces
of them, their tops and slopes hazed more or less slightly in that blue-gray, under the autumn
sun, for over a hundred miles--the most spiritual show of objective Nature I ever beheld, or
ever thought possible. Occasionally the light strengthens, making a contrast of yellow-tinged
silver on one side, with dark and shaded gray on the other. I took a long look at Pike's peak,
and was a little disappointed. (I suppose I had expected something stunning.) Our view over
plains to the left stretches amply, with corrals here and there, the frequent cactus and wild
sage, and herds of cattle feeding. Thus about 120 miles to Pueblo. At that town we board the
comfortable and well-equipt Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe RR., now striking east.

UNFULFILLED WANTS--THE ARKANSAS RIVER

I had wanted to go to the Yellowstone river region--wanted specially to see the National Park,
and the geysers and the "hoodoo" or goblin land of that country; indeed, hesitated a little
at Pueblo, the turning point--wanted to thread the Veta pass--wanted to go over the Santa Fe
trail away southwestward to New Mexico--but turn'd and set my face eastward--leaving behind
me whetting glimpse-tastes of southeastern Colorado, Pueblo, Bald mountain, the Spanish peaks,
Sangre de Christos, Mile-Shoe-curve (which my veteran friend on the locomotive told me was
"the boss railroad curve of the universe,") fort Garland on the plains, Veta, and the three
great peaks of the Sierra Blancas. The Arkansas river plays quite a part in the whole of this
region--I see it, or its high-cut rocky northern shore, for miles, and cross and recross it
frequently, as it winds and squirms like a snake. The plains vary here even more than usual--sometimes
a long sterile stretch of scores of miles--then green, fertile and grassy, an equal length.
Some very large herds of sheep. (One wants new words in writing about these plains, and all
the inland American West--the terms, far, large, vast, &c., are insufficient.)

A SILENT LITTLE FOLLOWER-THE COREOPSIS

Here I must say a word about a little follower, present even now before my eyes. I have been
accompanied on my whole journey from Barnegat to Pike's peak by a pleasant floricultural friend,
or rather millions of friends--nothing more or less than a hardy little yellow five-petal'd
September and October wild-flower, growing I think everywhere in the middle and northern United
States. I had seen it on the Hudson and over Long Island, and along the banks of the Delaware
and through New Jersey, (as years ago up the Connecticut, and one fall by Lake Champlain.)
This trip it follow'd me regularly, with its slender stem and eyes of gold, from Cape May to
the Kaw valley, and so through the canons and to these plains. In Missouri I saw immense fields
all bright with it. Toward western Illinois I woke up one morning in the sleeper and the first
thing when I drew the curtain of my berth and look'd out was its pretty countenance and bending
neck.

Sept. 25th.--Early morning--still going east after we leave Sterling, Kansas, where I stopp'd
a day and night. The sun up about half an hour; nothing can be fresher or more beautiful than
this time, this region. I see quite a field of my yellow flower in full bloom. At intervals
dots of nice two-story houses, as we ride swiftly by. Over the immense area, flat as a floor,
visible for twenty miles in every direction in the clear air, a prevalence of autumn-drab and
reddish-tawny herbage--sparse stacks of hay and enclosures, breaking the landscape--as we rumble
by, flocks of prairie-hens starting up. Between Sterling and Florence a fine country. (Remembrances
to E. L., my old-young soldier friend of war times, and his wife and boy at S.)

THE PRAIRIES AND GREAT PLAINS IN POETRY

(After traveling Illinois, Missouri, Kansas and Colorado) Grand as is the thought that doubtless
the child is already born who will see a hundred millions of people, the most prosperous and
advanc'd of the world, inhabiting these Prairies, the great Plains, and the valley of the Mississippi,
I could not help thinking it would be grander still to see all those inimitable American areas
fused in the alembic of a perfect poem, or other esthetic work, entirely western, fresh and
limitless--altogether our own, without a trace or taste of Europe's soil, reminiscence, technical
letter or spirit. My days and nights, as I travel here--what an exhilaration!--not the air
alone, and the sense of vastness, but every local sight and feature. Everywhere something characteristic--the
cactuses, pinks, buffalo grass, wild sage--the receding perspective, and the far circle-line
of the horizon all times of day, especially forenoon--the clear, pure, cool, rarefied nutriment
for the lungs, previously quite unknown--the black patches and streaks left by surface-conflagrations--the
deep-plough'd furrow of the "fire-guard"--the slanting snow-racks built all along to shield
the railroad from winter drifts--the prairie-dogs and the herds of antelope--the curious "dry
rivers"--occasionally a "dug-out" or corral--Fort Riley and Fort Wallace--those towns of the
northern plains, (like ships on the sea,) Eagle-Tail, Coyote, Cheyenne, Agate, Monotony, Kit
Carson--with ever the ant-hill and the buffalo-wallow--ever the herds of cattle and the cow-boys
("cow-punchers") to me a strangely interesting class, bright-eyed as hawks, with their swarthy
complexions and their broad-brimm'd hats--apparently always on horseback, with loose arms slightly
raised and swinging as they ride.

THE SPANISH PEAKS--EVENING ON THE PLAINS

Between Pueblo and Bent's fort, southward, in a clear afternoon sun-spell I catch exceptionally
good glimpses of the Spanish peaks. We are in southeastern Colorado--pass immense herds of
cattle as our first-class locomotive rushes us along--two or three times crossing the Arkansas,
which we follow many miles, and of which river I get fine views, sometimes for quite a distance,
its stony, upright, not very high, palisade banks, and then its muddy flats. We pass Fort Lyon--lots
of adobie houses--limitless pasturage, appropriately fleck'd with those herds of cattle--in
due time the declining sun in the west--a sky of limpid pearl over all--and so evening on the
great plains. A calm, pensive, boundless landscape--the perpendicular rocks of the north Arkansas,
hued in twilight--a thin line of violet on the southwestern horizon--the palpable coolness
and slight aroma--a belated cow-boy with some unruly member of his herd--an emigrant wagon
toiling yet a little further, the horses slow and tired--two men, apparently father and son,
jogging along on foot--and around all the indescribable chiaroscuro and sentiment, (profounder
than anything at sea,) athwart these endless wilds.

AMERICA'S CHARACTERISTIC LANDSCAPE

Speaking generally as to the capacity and sure future destiny of that plain and prairie area
(larger than any European kingdom) it is the inexhaustible land of wheat, maize, wool, flax,
coal, iron, beef and pork, butter and cheese, apples and grapes--land of ten million virgin
farms--to the eye at present wild and unproductive--yet experts say that upon it when irrigated
may easily be grown enough wheat to feed the world. Then as to scenery (giving my own thought
and feeling,) while I know the standard claim is that Yosemite, Niagara falls, the upper Yellowstone
and the like, afford the greatest natural shows, I am not so sure but the Prairies and the
Plains, while less stunning at first sight, last longer, fill the esthetic sense fuller, precede
all the rest, and make North America's characteristic landscape.

Indeed through the whole of this journey, with all its shows and varieties, what most impress'd
me, and will longest remain with me, are these same prairies. Day after day, and night after
night, to my eyes, to all my senses--the esthetic one most of all--they silently and broadly
unfolded. Even their simplest statistics are sublime.

EARTH'S MOST IMPORTANT STREAM

The valley of the Mississippi river and its tributaries, (this stream and its adjuncts involve
a big part of the question,) comprehends more than twelve hundred thousand square miles, the
greater part prairies. It is by far the most important stream on the globe, and would seem
to have been marked out by design, slow-flowing from north to south, through a dozen climates,
all fitted for man's healthy occupancy, its outlet unfrozen all the year, and its line forming
a safe, cheap continental avenue for commerce and passage from the north temperate to the torrid
zone. Not even the mighty Amazon (though larger in volume) on its line of east and west--not
the Nile in Africa, nor the Danube in Europe, nor the three great rivers of China, compare
with it. Only the Mediterranean sea has play'd some such part in history, and all through the
past, as the Mississippi is destined to play in the future. By its demesnes, water'd and welded
by its branches, the Missouri, the Ohio, the Arkansas, the Red, the Yazoo, the St. Francis
and others, it already compacts twenty-five millions of people, not merely the most peaceful
and money-making, but the most restless and warlike on earth. Its valley, or reach, is rapidly
concentrating the political power of the American Union. One almost thinks it is the Union--or
soon will be. Take it out, with its radiations, and what would be left? From the car windows
through Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, or stopping some days along the Topeka and Santa Fe road,
in southern Kansas, and indeed wherever I went, hundreds and thousands of miles through this
region, my eyes feasted on primitive and rich meadows, some of them partially inhabited, but
far, immensely far more untouch'd, unbroken--and much of it more lovely and fertile in its
unplough'd innocence than the fair and valuable fields of New York's, Pennsylvania's, Maryland's
or Virginia's richest farms.

PRAIRIE ANALOGIES--THE TREE QUESTION

The word Prairie is French, and means literally meadow. The cosmical analogies of our North
American plains are the Steppes of Asia, the Pampas and Llanos of South America, and perhaps
the Saharas of Africa. Some think the plains have been originally lake-beds; others attribute
the absence of forests to the fires that almost annually sweep over them--(the cause, in vulgar
estimation, of Indian summer.) The tree question will soon become a grave one. Although the
Atlantic slope, the Rocky mountain region, and the southern portion of the Mississippi valley,
are well wooded, there are here stretches of hundreds and thousands of miles where either not
a tree grows, or often useless destruction has prevail'd; and the matter of the cultivation
and spread of forests may well be press'd upon thinkers who look to the coming generations
of the prairie States.

MISSISSIPPI VALLEY LITERATURE

Lying by one rainy day in Missouri to rest after quite a long exploration--first trying a big
volume I found there of "Milton, Young, Gray, Beattie and Collins," but giving it up for a
bad job--enjoying however for awhile, as often before, the reading of Walter Scott's poems,
"Lay of the Last Minstrel," "Marmion," and so on--I stopp'd and laid down the book, and ponder'd
the thought of a poetry that should in due time express and supply the teeming region I was
in the midst of, and have briefly touch'd upon. One's mind needs but a moment's deliberation
anywhere in the United States to see clearly enough that all the prevalent book and library
poets, either as imported from Great Britain, or follow'd and doppel-gang'd here, are foreign
to our States, copiously as they are read by us all. But to fully understand not only how absolutely
in opposition to our times and lands, and how little and cramp'd, and what anachronisms and
absurdities many of their pages are, for American purposes, one must dwell or travel awhile
in Missouri, Kansas and Colorado, and get rapport with their people and country.

Will the day ever come--no matter how long deferr'd--when those models and lay-figures from
the British islands--and even the precious traditions of the classics--will be reminiscences,
studies only? The pure breath, primitiveness, boundless prodigality and amplitude, strange
mixture of delicacy and power, of continence, of real and ideal, and of all original and first-class
elements, of these prairies, the Rocky mountains, and of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers--will
they ever appear in, and in some sort form a standard for our poetry and art? (I sometimes
think that even the ambition of my friend Joaquin Miller to put them in, and illustrate them,
places him ahead of the whole crowd.)

Not long ago I was down New York bay, on a steamer, watching the sunset over the dark green
heights of Navesink, and viewing all that inimitable spread of shore, shipping and sea, around
Sandy Hook. But an intervening week or two, and my eyes catch the shadowy outlines of the Spanish
peaks. In the more than two thousand miles between, though of infinite and paradoxical variety,
a curious and absolute fusion is doubtless steadily annealing, compacting, identifying all.
But subtler and wider and more solid, (to produce such compaction,) than the laws of the States,
or the common ground of Congress, or the Supreme Court, or the grim welding of our national
wars, or the steel ties of railroads, or all the kneading and fusing processes of our material
and business history, past or present, would in my opinion be a great throbbing, vital, imaginative
work, or series of works, or literature, in constructing which the Plains, the Prairies, and
the Mississippi river, with the demesnes of its varied and ample valley, should be the concrete
background, and America's humanity, passions, struggles, hopes, there and now--an eclaircissement
as it is and is to be, on the stage of the New World, of all Time's hitherto drama of war,
romance and evolution--should furnish the lambent fire, the ideal.

AN INTERVIEWER'S ITEM

Oct. 17, '79.--To-day one of the newspapers of St. Louis prints the following informal remarks
of mine on American, especially Western literature: "We called on Mr. Whitman yesterday and
after a somewhat desultory conversation abruptly asked him: 'Do you think we are to have a
distinctively American literature?' 'It seems to me,' said he,'that our work at present is
to lay the foundations of a great nation in products, in agriculture, in commerce, in networks
of intercommunication, and in all that relates to the comforts of vast masses of men and families,
with freedom of speech, ecclesiasticism, &c. These we have founded and are carrying out on
a grander scale than ever hitherto, and Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, Missouri, Kansas and Colorado,
seem to me to be the seat and field of these very facts and ideas. Materialistic prosperity
in all its varied forms, with those other points that I mentioned, intercommunication and freedom,
are first to be attended to. When those have their results and get settled, then a literature
worthy of us will begin to be defined. Our American superiority and vitality are in the bulk
of our people, not in a gentry like the old world. The greatness of our army during the secession
war, was in the rank and file, and so with the nation. Other lands have their vitality in a
few, a class, but we have it in the bulk of the people. Our leading men are not of much account
and never have been, but the average of the people is immense, beyond all history. Sometimes
I think in all departments, literature and art included, that will be the way our superiority
will exhibit itself. We will not have great individuals or great leaders, but a great average
bulk, unprecedentedly great.'"

THE WOMEN OF THE WEST

Kansas City.--I am not so well satisfied with what I see of the women of the prairie cities.
I am writing this where I sit leisurely in a store in Main street, Kansas City, a streaming
crowd on the sidewalks flowing by. The ladies (and the same in Denver) are all fashionably
drest, and have the look of "gentility" in face, manner and action, but they do not have, either
in physique or the mentality appropriate to them, any high native originality of spirit or
body, (as the men certainly have, appropriate to them.) They are "intellectual" and fashionable,
but dyspeptic-looking and generally doll-like; their ambition evidently is to copy their eastern
sisters. Something far different and in advance must appear, to tally and complete the superb
masculinity of the west, and maintain and continue it.

THE SILENT GENERAL

Sept. 28, '79.--So General Grant, after circumambiating the world, has arrived home again,
landed in San Francisco yesterday, from the ship City of Tokio from Japan. What a man he is!
what a history! what an illustration--his life--of the capacities of that American individuality
common to us all. Cynical critics are wondering "what the people can see in Grant" to make
such a hubbub about. They aver (and it is no doubt true) that he has hardly the average of
our day's literary and scholastic culture, and absolutely no pronounc'd genius or conventional
eminence of any sort. Correct: but he proves how an average western farmer, mechanic, boatman,
carried by tides of circumstances, perhaps caprices, into a position of incredible military
or civic responsibilities, (history has presented none more trying, no born monarch's, no mark
more shining for attack or envy,) may steer his way fitly and steadily through them all, carrying
the country and himself with credit year after year--command over a million armed men--fight
more than fifty pitch'd battles--rule for eight years a land larger than all the kingdoms of
Europe combined--and then, retiring, quietly (with a cigar in his mouth) make the promenade
of the whole world, through its courts and coteries, and kings and czars and mikados, and splendidest
glitters and etiquettes, as phlegmatically as he ever walk'd the portico of a Missouri hotel
after dinner. I say all this is what people like--and I am sure I like it. Seems to me it transcends
Plutarch. How those old Greeks, indeed, would have seized on him! A mere plain man--no art,
no poetry--only practical sense, ability to do, or try his best to do, what devolv'd upon him.
A common trader, money-maker, tanner, farmer of Illinois--general for the republic, in its
terrific struggle with itself, in the war of attempted secession--President following, (a task
of peace, more difficult than the war itself)--nothing heroic, as the authorities put it--and
yet the greatest hero. The gods, the destinies, seem to have concentrated upon him.

PRESIDENT HAYES'S SPEECHES

Sept. 30.--I see President Hayes has come out West, passing quite informally from point to
point, with his wife and a small cortege of big officers, receiving ovations, and making daily
and sometimes double-daily addresses to the people. To these addresses--all impromptu, and
some would call them ephemeral--I feel to devote a memorandum. They are shrewd, good-natur'd,
face-to-face speeches, on easy topics not too deep; but they give me some revised ideas of
oratory--of a new, opportune theory and practice of that art, quite changed from the classic
rules, and adapted to our days, our occasions, to American democracy, and to the swarming populations
of the West. I hear them criticised as wanting in dignity, but to me they are just what they
should be, considering all the circumstances, who they come from, and who they are address'd
to. Underneath, his objects are to compact and fraternize the States, encourage their materialistic
and industrial development, soothe and expand their self-poise, and tie all and each with resistless
double ties not only of inter-trade barter, but human comradeship.

From Kansas City I went on to St. Louis, where I remain'd nearly three months, with my brother
T.J.W., and my dear nieces.

ST. LOUIS MEMORANDA

Oct., Nov., and Dec., '79.--The points of St. Louis are its position, its absolute wealth,
(the long accumulations of time and trade, solid riches, probably a higher average thereof
than any city,) the unrivall'd amplitude of its well-laid-out environage of broad plateaus,
for future expansion--and the great State of which it is the head. It fuses northern and southern
qualities, perhaps native and foreign ones, to perfection, rendezvous the whole stretch of
the Mississippi and Missouri rivers, and its American electricity goes well with its German
phlegm. Fourth, Fifth and Third streets are store-streets, showy, modern, metropolitan, with
hurrying crowds, vehicles, horse-cars, hubbub, plenty of people, rich goods, plate-glass windows,
iron fronts often five or six stories high. You can purchase anything in St. Louis (in most
of the big western cities for the matter of that) just as readily and cheaply as in the Atlantic
marts. Often in going about the town you see reminders of old, even decay'd civilization. The
water of the west, in some places, is not good, but they make it up here by plenty of very
fair wine, and inexhaustible quantities of the best beer in the world. There are immense establishments
for slaughtering beef and pork--and I saw flocks of sheep, 5000 in a flock. (In Kansas City
I had visited a packing establishment that kills and packs an average of 2500 hogs a day the
whole year round, for export. Another in Atchison, Kansas, same extent; others nearly equal
elsewhere. And just as big ones here.)

NIGHTS ON THE MISSISSIPPI

Oct. 29th, 30th, and 31st.--Wonderfully fine, with the full harvest moon, dazzling and silvery.
I have haunted the river every night lately, where I could get a look at the bridge by moonlight.
It is indeed a structure of perfection and beauty unsurpassable, and I never tire of it. The
river at present is very low; I noticed to-day it had much more of a blue-clear look than usual.
I hear the slight ripples, the air is fresh and cool, and the view, up or down, wonderfully
clear, in the moonlight. I am out pretty late: it is so fascinating, dreamy. The cool night-air,
all the influences, the silence, with those far-off eternal stars, do me good. I have been
quite ill of late. And so, well-near the centre of our national demesne, these night views
of the Mississippi.

UPON OUR OWN LAND

"Always, after supper, take a walk half a mile long," says an old proverb, dryly adding, "and
if convenient let it be upon your own land." I wonder does any other nation but ours afford
opportunity for such a jaunt as this? Indeed has any previous period afforded it? No one, I
discover, begins to know the real geographic, democratic, indissoluble American Union in the
present, or suspect it in the future, until he explores these Central States, and dwells awhile
observantly on their prairies, or amid their busy towns, and the mighty father of waters. A
ride of two or three thousand miles, "on one's own land," with hardly a disconnection, could
certainly be had in no other place than the United States, and at no period before this. If
you want to see what the railroad is, and how civilization and progress date from it--how it
is the conqueror of crude nature, which it turns to man's use, both on small scales and on
the largest--come hither to inland America.

I return'd home, east, Jan. 5, 1880, having travers'd, to and fro and across, 10,000 miles
and more. I soon resumed my seclusions down in the woods, or by the creek, or gaddings about
cities, and an occasional disquisition, as will be seen following.

EDGAR POE'S SIGNIFICANCE

Jan. 1, '80.--In diagnosing this disease called humanity--to assume for the nonce what seems
a chief mood of the personality and writings of my subject--I have thought that poets, somewhere
or other on the list, present the most mark'd indications. Comprehending artists in a mass,
musicians, painters, actors, and so on, and considering each and all of them as radiations
or flanges of that furious whirling wheel, poetry, the centre and axis of the whole, where
else indeed may we so well investigate the causes, growths, tally-marks of the time--the age's
matter and malady?

By common consent there is nothing better for man or woman than a perfect and noble life, morally
without flaw, happily balanced in activity, physically sound and pure, giving its due proportion,
and no more, to the sympathetic, the human emotional element--a life, in all these, unhasting,
unresting, untiring to the end. And yet there is another shape of personality dearer far to
the artist-sense, (which likes the play of strongest lights and shades,) where the perfect
character, the good, the heroic, although never attain'd, is never lost sight of, but through
failures, sorrows, temporary downfalls, is return'd to again and again, and while often violated,
is passionately adhered to as long as mind, muscles, voice, obey the power we call volition.
This sort of personality we see more or less in Burns, Byron, Schiller, and George Sand. But
we do not see it in Edgar Poe. (All this is the result of reading at intervals the last three
days a new volume of his poems--I took it on my rambles down by the pond, and by degrees read
it all through there.) While to the character first outlined the service Poe renders is certainly
that entire contrast and contradiction which is next best to fully exemplifying it.

Almost without the first sign of moral principle, or of the concrete or its heroisms, or the
simpler affections of the heart, Poe's verses illustrate an intense faculty for technical and
abstract beauty, with the rhyming art to excess, an incorrigible propensity toward nocturnal
themes, a demoniac undertone behind every page--and, by final judgment, probably belong among
the electric lights of imaginative literature, brilliant and dazzling, but with no heat. There
is an indescribable magnetism about the poet's life and reminiscences, as well as the poems.
To one who could work out their subtle retracing and retrospect, the latter would make a close
tally no doubt between the author's birth and antecedents, his childhood and youth, his physique,
his so-call'd education, his studies and associates, the literary and social Baltimore, Richmond,
Philadelphia and New York, of those times--not only the places and circumstances in themselves,
but often, very often, in a strange spurning of, and reaction from them all.

The following from a report in the Washington "Star" of November 16, 1875, may afford those
who care for it something further of my point of view toward this interesting figure and influence
of our era. There occurr'd about that date in Baltimore a public reburial of Poe's remains,
and dedication of a monument over the grave:

"Being in Washington on a visit at the time, 'the old gray' went over to Baltimore, and though
ill from paralysis, consented to hobble up and silently take a seat on the platform, but refused
to make any speech, saying, 'I have felt a strong impulse to come over and be here to-day myself
in memory of Poe, which I have obey'd, but not the slightest impulse to make a speech, which,
my dear friends, must also be obeyed.' In an informal circle, however, in conversation after
the ceremonies, Whitman said: 'For a long while, and until lately, I had a distaste for Poe's
writings. I wanted, and still want for poetry, the clear sun shining, and fresh air blowing--the
strength and power of health, not of delirium, even amid the stormiest passions--with always
the background of the eternal moralities. Non-complying with these requirements, Poe's genius
has yet conquer'd a special recognition for itself, and I too have come to fully admit it,
and appreciate it and him.

"'In a dream I once had, I saw a vessel on the sea, at midnight, in a storm. It was no great
full-rigg'd ship, nor majestic steamer, steering firmly through the gale, but seem'd one of
those superb little schooner yachts I had often seen lying anchor'd, rocking so jauntily, in
the waters around New York, or up Long Island sound--now flying uncontroll'd with torn sails
and broken spars through the wild sleet and winds and waves of the night. On the deck was a
slender, slight, beautiful figure, a dim man, apparently enjoying all the terror, the murk,
and the dislocation of which he was the centre and the victim. That figure of my lurid dream
might stand for Edgar Poe, his spirit, his fortunes, and his poems--themselves all lurid dreams.'"

Much more may be said, but I most desired to exploit the idea put at the beginning. By its
popular poets the calibres of an age, the weak spots of its embankments, its sub-currents,
(often more significant than the biggest surface ones,) are unerringly indicated. The lush
and the weird that have taken such extraordinary possession of Nineteenth century verse-lovers--what
mean they? The inevitable tendency of poetic culture to morbidity, abnormal beauty--the sickliness
of all technical thought or refinement in itself--the abnegation of the perennial and democratic
concretes at first hand, the body, the earth and sea, sex and the like--and the substitution
of something for them at second or third hand--what bearings have they on current pathological
study?

BEETHOVEN'S SEPTETTE

Feb. 11, '80.--At a good concert to-night in the foyer of the opera house, Philadelphia--the
band a small but first-rate one. Never did music more sink into and soothe and fill me--never
so prove its soul-rousing power, its impossibility of statement. Especially in the rendering
of one of Beethoven's master septettes by the well-chosen and perfectly-combined instruments
(violins, viola, clarionet, horn, 'cello and contrabass,) was I carried away, seeing, absorbing
many wonders. Dainty abandon, sometimes as if Nature laughing on a hillside in the sunshine;
serious and firm monotonies, as of winds; a horn sounding through the tangle of the forest,
and the dying echoes; soothing floating of waves, but presently rising in surges, angrily lashing,
muttering, heavy; piercing peals of laughter, for interstices; now and then weird, as Nature
herself is in certain moods--but mainly spontaneous, easy, careless--often the sentiment of
the postures of naked children playing or sleeping. It did me good even to watch the violinists
drawing their bows so masterly--every motion a study. I allow'd myself, as I sometimes do,
to wander out of myself. The conceit came to me of a copious grove of singing birds, and in
their midst a simple harmonic duo, two human souls, steadily asserting their own pensiveness,
joyousness.

A HINT OF WILD NATURE

Feb. 13.--As I was crossing the Delaware to-day, saw a large flock of wild geese, right overhead,
not very high up, ranged in V-shape, in relief against the noon clouds of light smoke-color.
Had a capital though momentary view of them, and then of their course on and on southeast,
till gradually fading--(my eyesight yet first rate for the open air and its distances, but
I use glasses for reading.) Queer thoughts melted into me the two or three minutes, or less,
seeing these creatures cleaving the sky--the spacious, airy realm--even the prevailing smoke-gray
color everywhere, (no sun shining)--the waters below--the rapid flight of the birds, appearing
just for a minute--flashing to me such a hint of the whole spread of Nature, with her eternal
unsophisticated freshness, her never-visited recesses of sea, sky, shore--and then disappearing
in the distance.

LOAFING IN THE WOODS

March 8.--I write this down in the country again, but in a new spot, seated on a log in the
woods, warm, sunny, midday. Have been loafing here deep among the trees, shafts of tall pines,
oak, hickory, with a thick undergrowth of laurels and grapevines--the ground cover'd everywhere
by debris, dead leaves, breakage, moss--everything solitary, ancient, grim. Paths (such as
they are) leading hither and yon--(how made I know not, for nobody seems to come here, nor
man nor cattle-kind.) Temperature to-day about 60, the wind through the pine-tops; I sit and
listen to its hoarse sighing above (and to the stillness) long and long, varied by aimless
rambles in the old roads and paths, and by exercise-pulls at the young saplings, to keep my
joints from getting stiff. Blue-birds, robins, meadow-larks begin to appear.

Next day, 9th.--A snowstorm in the morning, and continuing most of the day. But I took a walk
over two hours, the same woods and paths, amid the falling flakes. No wind, yet the musical
low murmur through the pines, quite pronounced, curious, like waterfalls, now still'd, now
pouring again. All the senses, sight, sound, smell, delicately gratified. Every snowflake lay
where it fell on the evergreens, holly-trees, laurels, &c., the multitudinous leaves and branches
piled, bulging-white, defined by edge-lines of emerald--the tall straight columns of the plentiful
bronze-topt pines--a slight resinous odor blending with that of the snow. (For there is a scent
to everything, even the snow, if you can only detect it--no two places, hardly any two hours,
anywhere, exactly alike. How different the odor of noon from midnight, or winter from summer,
or a windy spell from a still one.)

A CONTRALTO VOICE

May 9, Sunday.--Visit this evening to my friends the J.'s--good supper, to which I did justice--lively
chat with Mrs. J. and I. and J. As I sat out front on the walk afterward, in the evening air,
the church-choir and organ on the corner opposite gave Luther's hymn, Ein feste berg, very
finely. The air was borne by a rich contralto. For nearly half an hour there in the dark (there
was a good string of English stanzas,) came the music, firm and unhurried, with long pauses.
The full silver star-beams of Lyra rose silently over the church's dim roof-ridge. Vari-color'd
lights from the stain'd glass windows broke through the tree-shadows. And under all--under
the Northern Crown up there, and in the fresh breeze below, and the chiaroscuro of the night,
that liquid-full contralto.

SEEING NIAGARA TO ADVANTAGE

June 4, '80.--For really seizing a great picture or book, or piece of music, or architecture,
or grand scenery--or perhaps for the first time even the common sunshine, or landscape, or
may-be even the mystery of identity, most curious mystery of all--there comes some lucky five
minutes of a man's life, set amid a fortuitous concurrence of circumstances, and bringing in
a brief flash the culmination of years of reading and travel and thought. The present case
about two o'clock this afternoon, gave me Niagara, its superb severity of action and color
and majestic grouping, in one short, indescribable show. We were very slowly crossing the Suspension
bridge-not a full stop anywhere, but next to it--the day clear, sunny, still--and I out on
the platform. The falls were in plain view about a mile off, but very distinct, and no roar--hardly
a murmur. The river tumbling green and white, far below me; the dark high banks, the plentiful
umbrage, many bronze cedars, in shadow; and tempering and arching all the immense materiality,
a clear sky overhead, with a few white clouds, limpid, spiritual, silent. Brief, and as quiet
as brief, that picture--a remembrance always afterwards. Such are the things, indeed, I lay
away with my life's rare and blessed bits of hours, reminiscent, past--the wild sea-storm I
once saw one winter day, off Fire island--the elder Booth in Richard, that famous night forty
years ago in the old Bowery--or Alboni in the children's scene in Norma--or night-views, I
remember, on the field, after battles in Virginia--or the peculiar sentiment of moonlight and
stars over the great Plains, western Kansas--or scooting up New York bay, with a stiff breeze
and a good yacht, off Navesink. With these, I say, I henceforth place that view, that afternoon,
that combination complete, that five minutes' perfect absorption of Niagara--not the great
majestic gem alone by itself, but set complete in all its varied, full, indispensable surroundings.

JAUNTING TO CANADA

To go back a little, I left Philadelphia, 9th and Green streets, at 8 o'clock P.M., June 3,
on a first-class sleeper, by the Lehigh Valley (North Pennsylvania) route, through Bethlehem,
Wilkesbarre, Waverly, and so (by Erie) on through Corning to Hornellsville, where we arrived
at 8, morning, and had a bounteous breakfast. I must say I never put in such a good night on
any railroad track--smooth, firm, the minimum of jolting, and all the swiftness compatible
with safety. So without change to Buffalo, and thence to Clifton, where we arrived early afternoon;
then on to London, Ontario, Canada, in four more--less than twenty-two hours altogether. I
am domiciled at the hospitable house of my friends Dr. and Mrs. Bucke, in the ample and charming
garden and lawns of the asylum.

SUNDAY WITH THE INSANE

June 6.--Went over to the religious services (Episcopal) main Insane asylum, held in a lofty,
good-sized hall, third story. Plain boards, whitewash, plenty of cheap chairs, no ornament
or color, yet all scrupulously clean and sweet. Some three hundred persons present, mostly
patients. Everything, the prayers, a short sermon, the firm, orotund voice of the minister,
and most of all, beyond any portraying, or suggesting, that audience, deeply impress'd me.
I was furnish'd with an arm-chair near the pulpit, and sat facing the motley, yet perfectly
well-behaved and orderly congregation. The quaint dresses and bonnets of some of the women,
several very old and gray, here and there like the heads in old pictures. O the looks that
came from those faces! There were two or three I shall probably never forget. Nothing at all
markedly repulsive or hideous--strange enough I did not see one such. Our common humanity,
mine and yours, everywhere:

    "The same old blood--the same red, running blood;"

yet behind most, an inferr'd arriere of such storms, such wrecks, such
mysteries, fires, love, wrong, greed for wealth, religious problems,
crosses--mirror'd from those crazed faces (yet now temporarily so
calm, like still waters,) all the woes and sad happenings of life and
death--now from every one the devotional element radiating--was it
not, indeed, the peace of God that passeth all understanding,
strange as it may sound? I can only say that I took long and searching
eyesweeps as I sat there, and it seem'd so, rousing unprecedented
thoughts, problems unanswerable. A very fair choir, and melodeon
accompaniment. They sang "Lead, kindly light," after the sermon.
    The night is dark, and I am far from home;
             Lead thou me on.
    Keep thou my feet; I do not ask to see
    The distant scene; one step enough for me.

    I was not ever thus, nor pray'd that thou
             Should'st lead me on;
    I lov'd to choose and see my path; but now
             Lead thou me on.
    I loved the garish day, and spite of fears
    Pride ruled my will; remember not past years.

A couple of days after, I went to the "Refractory building," under special charge of Dr. Beemer,
and through the wards pretty thoroughly, both the men's and women's. I have since made many
other visits of the kind through the asylum, and around among the detach'd cottages. As far
as I could see, this is among the most advanced, perfected, and kindly and rationally carried
on, of all its kind in America. It is a town in itself, with many buildings and a thousand
inhabitants.

I learn that Canada, and especially this ample and populous province, Ontario, has the very
best and plentiest benevolent institutions in all departments.

REMINISCENCE OF ELIAS HICKS

June 8.--To-day a letter from Mrs. E. S. L., Detroit, accompanied in a little post-office roll
by a rare old engraved head of Elias Hicks, (from a portrait in oil by Henry Inman, painted
for J. V. S., must have been 60 years or more ago, in New York)--among the rest the following
excerpt about E. H. in the letter:

  "I have listen'd to his preaching so often when a child, and sat with
  my mother at social gatherings where he was the centre, and every one
  so pleas'd and stirr'd by his conversation. I hear that you contemplate
  writing or speaking about him, and I wonder'd whether you had a picture
  of him. As I am the owner of two, I send you one."

GRAND NATIVE GROWTH

In a few days I go to lake Huron, and may have something to say of that region and people.
From what I already see, I should say the young native population of Canada was growing up,
forming a hardy, democratic, intelligent, radically sound, and just as American, good-natured
and individualistic race, as the average range of best specimens among us. As among us, too,
I please myself by considering that this element, though it may not be the majority, promises
to be the leaven which must eventually leaven the whole lump.

A ZOLLVEREIN BETWEEN THE U.S. AND CANADA

Some of the more liberal of the presses here are discussing the question of a zollverein between
the United States and Canada. It is proposed to form a union for commercial purposes--to altogether
abolish the frontier tariff line, with its double sets of custom house officials now existing
between the two countries, and to agree upon one tariff for both, the proceeds of this tariff
to be divided between the two governments on the basis of population. It is said that a large
proportion of the merchants of Canada are in favor of this step, as they believe it would materially
add to the business of the country, by removing the restrictions that now exist on trade between
Canada and the States. Those persons who are opposed to the measure believe that it would increase
the material welfare or the country, but it would loosen the bonds between Canada and England;
and this sentiment overrides the desire for commercial prosperity. Whether the sentiment can
continue to bear the strain put upon it is a question. It is thought by many that commercial
considerations must in the end prevail. It seems also to be generally agreed that such a zollverein,
or common customs union, would bring practically more benefits to the Canadian provinces than
to the United States. (It seems to me a certainty of time, sooner or later, that Canada shall
form two or three grand States, equal and independent, with the rest of the American Union.
The St. Lawrence and lakes are not for a frontier line, but a grand interior or mid-channel.)

THE ST. LAWRENCE LINE

August 20.--Premising that my three or four months in Canada were intended, among the rest,
as an exploration of the line of the St. Lawrence, from lake Superior to the sea, (the engineers
here insist upon considering it as one stream, over 2000 miles long, including lakes and Niagara
and all)--that I have only partially carried out my programme; but for the seven or eight hundred
miles so far fulfill'd, I find that the Canada question is absolutely control'd by this vast
water line, with its first-class features and points of trade, humanity, and many more--here
I am writing this nearly a thousand miles north of my Philadelphia starting-point (by way of
Montreal and Quebec) in the midst of regions that go to a further extreme of grimness, wildness
of beauty, and a sort of still and pagan scaredness, while yet Christian, inhabitable, and
partially fertile, than perhaps any other on earth. The weather remains perfect; some might
call it a little cool, but I wear my old gray overcoat and find it just right. The days are
full of sunbeams and oxygen. Most of the forenoons and afternoons I am on the forward deck
of the steamer.

THE SAVAGE SAGUENAY

Up these black waters, over a hundred miles--always strong, deep, (hundreds of feet, sometimes
thousands,) ever with high, rocky hills for banks, green and gray--at times a little like some
parts of the Hudson, but much more pronounc'd and defiant. The hills rise higher--keep their
ranks more unbroken. The river is straighter and of more resolute flow, and its hue, though
dark as ink, exquisitely polish'd and sheeny under the August sun. Different, indeed, this
Saguenay from all other rivers--different effects--a bolder, more vehement play of lights and
shades. Of a rare charm of singleness and simplicity. (Like the organ-chant at midnight from
the old Spanish convent, in "Favorita"--one strain only, simple and monotonous and unornamented--but
indescribably penetrating and grand and masterful.) Great place for echoes: while our steamer
was tied at the wharf at Tadousac (taj-oo-sac) waiting, the escape-pipe letting off steam,
I was sure I heard a band at the hotel up in the rocks--could even make out some of the tunes.
Only when our pipe stopp'd, I knew what caused it. Then at cape Eternity and Trinity rock,
the pilot with his whistle producing similar marvellous results, echoes indescribably weird,
as we lay off in the still bay under their shadows.

CAPES ETERNITY AND TRINITY

But the great, haughty, silent capes themselves; I doubt if any crack points, or hills, or
historic places of note, or anything of the kind elsewhere in the world, outvies these objects--(I
write while I am before them face to face.) They are very simple, they do not startle--at least
they did not me--but they linger in one's memory forever. They are placed very near each other,
side by side, each a mountain rising flush out of the Saguenay. A good thrower could throw
a stone on each in passing--at least it seems so. Then they are as distinct in form as a perfect
physical man or a perfect physical woman. Cape Eternity is bare, rising, as just said, sheer
out of the water, rugged and grim (yet with an indescribable beauty) nearly two thousand feet
high. Trinity rock, even a little higher, also rising flush, top-rounded like a great head
with close-cut verdure of hair. I consider myself well repaid for coming my thousand miles
to get the sight and memory of the unrivall'd duo. They have stirr'd me more profoundly than
anything of the kind I have yet seen. If Europe or Asia had them, we should certainly hear
of them in all sorts of sent-back poems, rhapsodies, &c., a dozen times a year through our
papers and magazines.

CHICOUTIMI AND HA-HA BAY

No indeed--life and travel and memory have offer'd and will preserve to me no deeper-cut incidents,
panorama, or sights to cheer my soul, than these at Chicoutimi and Ha-ha bay, and my days and
nights up and down this fascinating savage river--the rounded mountains, some bare and gray,
some dull red, some draped close all over with matted green verdure or vines--the ample, calm,
eternal rocks everywhere--the long streaks of motley foam, a milk-white curd on the glistening
breast of the stream--the little two-masted schooner, dingy yellow, with patch'd sails, set
wing-and-wing, nearing us, coming saucily up the water with a couple of swarthy, black-hair'd
men aboard--the strong shades falling on the light gray or yellow outlines of the hills all
through the forenoon, as we steam within gunshot of them--while ever the pure and delicate
sky spreads over all. And the splendid sunsets, and the sights of evening--the same old stars,
(relatively a little different, I see, so far north) Arcturus and Lyra, and the Eagle, and
great Jupiter like a silver globe, and the constellation of the Scorpion. Then northern lights
nearly every night.

THE INHABITANTS--GOOD LIVING

Grim and rocky and black-water'd as the demesne hereabout is, however, you must not think genial
humanity, and comfort, and good-living are not to be met. Before I began this memorandum I
made a first-rate breakfast of sea-trout, finishing off with wild raspberries. I find smiles
and courtesy everywhere--physiognomies in general curiously like those in the United States--(I
was astonish'd to find the same resemblance all through the province of Quebec.) In general
the inhabitants of this rugged country (Charlevoix, Chicoutimi and Tadousac counties, and lake
St. John region) a simple, hardy population, lumbering, trapping furs, boating, fishing, berry-picking
and a little farming. I was watching a group of young boatmen eating their early dinner--nothing
but an immense loaf of bread, had apparently been the size of a bushel measure, from which
they cut chunks with a jack-knife. Must be a tremendous winter country this, when the solid
frost and ice fully set in.

CEDAR-PLUMS LIKE-NAMES (Back again in Camden and down in Jersey)

One time I thought of naming this collection "Cedar-Plums Like" (which I still fancy wouldn't
have been a bad name nor inappropriate.) A melange of loafing, looking, hobbling, sitting,
traveling--a little thinking thrown in for salt, but very little--not only summer but all seasons--not
only days but nights--some literary meditations--books, authors examined, Carlyle, Poe, Emerson
tried, (always under my cedar-tree, in the open air, and never in the library)--mostly the
scenes everybody sees, but some of my own caprices, meditations, egotism--truly an open air
and mainly summer formation--singly, or in clusters--wild and free and somewhat acrid--indeed
more like cedar-plums than you might guess at first glance.

But do you know what they are? (To city man, or some sweet parlor lady, I now talk.) As you
go along roads, or barrens, or across country, anywhere through these States, middle, eastern,
western, or southern, you will see, certain seasons of the year, the thick woolly tufts of
the cedar mottled with bunches of china-blue berries, about as big as fox-grapes. But first
a special word for the tree itself: everybody knows that the cedar is a healthy, cheap, democratic
wood, streak'd red and white--an evergreen--that it is not a cultivated tree--that it keeps
away moths--that it grows inland or seaboard, all climates, hot or cold, any soil--in fact
rather prefers sand and bleak side spots--content if the plough, the fertilizer and the trimming-axe,
will but keep away and let it alone. After a long rain, when everything looks bright, often
have I stopt in my wood-saunters, south or north, or far west, to take in its dusky green,
wash'd clean and sweet, and speck'd copiously with its fruit of clear, hardy blue. The wood
of the cedar is of use--but what profit on earth are those sprigs of acrid plums? A question
impossible to answer satisfactorily. True, some of the herb doctors give them for stomachic
affections, but the remedy is as bad as the disease. Then in my rambles down in Camden county
I once found an old crazy woman gathering the clusters with zeal and joy. She show'd, as I
was told afterward, a sort of infatuation for them, and every year placed and kept profuse
bunches high and low about her room. They had a strange charm on her uneasy head, and effected
docility and peace. (She was harmless, and lived near by with her well-off married daughter.)
Whether there is any connection between those bunches, and being out of one's wits, I cannot
say, but I myself entertain a weakness for them. Indeed, I love the cedar, anyhow--its naked
ruggedness, its just palpable odor, (so different from the perfumer's best,) its silence, its
equable acceptance of winter's cold and summer's heat, of rain or drouth--its shelter to me
from those, at times--its associations--(well, I never could explain why I love anybody, or
anything.) The service I now specially owe to the cedar is, while I cast around for a name
for my proposed collection, hesitating, puzzled--after rejecting a long, long string, I lift
my eyes, and lo! the very term I want. At any rate, I go no further--I tire in the search.
I take what some invisible kind spirit has put before me. Besides, who shall say there is not
affinity enough between (at least the bundle of sticks that produced) many of these pieces,
or granulations, and those blue berries? their uselessness growing wild--a certain aroma of
Nature I would so like to have in my pages--the thin soil whence they come--their content in
being let alone--their stolid and deaf repugnance to answering questions, (this latter the
nearest, dearest trait affinity of all.)

Then reader dear, in conclusion, as to the point of the name for the present collection, let
us be satisfied to have a name--something to identify and bind it together, to concrete all
its vegetable, mineral, personal memoranda, abrupt raids of criticism, crude gossip of philosophy,
varied sands and clumps--without bothering ourselves because certain pages do not present themselves
to you or me as coming under their own name with entire fitness or amiability. (It is a profound,
vexatious never-explicable matter--this of names. I have been exercised deeply about it my
whole life.[11])

After all of which the name "Cedar-Plums Like" got its nose put out of joint; but I cannot
afford to throw away what I pencill'd down the lane there, under the shelter of my old friend,
one warm October noon. Besides, it wouldn't be civil to the cedar tree.

Note:

[11] In the pocket of my receptacle-book I find a list of suggested and rejected names for
this volume, or parts of it--such as the following:

              As the wild bee hums in May,
              & August mulleins grow,
              & Winter snow-flakes fall,
              & stars in the sky roll round.

             Away from Books--away from Art,
             Now for the Day and Night--the lessons done,
             Now for the Sun and Stars.

    Notes of a Half-Paralytic,         As Voices in the Dusk, from
    Week in and Week out,               Speakers far or hid,
    Embers of Ending Days,              Autochthons....Embryons,
    Ducks and Drakes,                   Wing-and-Wing,
    Flood Tide and Ebb,                 Notes and Recalles.
    Gossip at Early Candle-light,       Only Mulleins and Bumble-Bees,
    Echoes and Escapades,               Pond-Babble....Tete-a-Tetes,
    Such as I....Evening Dews,          Echoes of a Life in the 19th
    Notes and Writing a Book,             Century in the New World,
    Far and Near at 63,                 Flanges of Fifty Years,
    Drifts and Cumulus,                 Abandons....Hurry Notes,
    Maize-Tassels....Kindlings,         A Life-Mosaic....Native Moments,
    Fore and Aft....Vestibules,         Types and Semi-Tones,
    Scintilla at 60 and after,          Oddments....Sand-Drifts,
    Sands on the Shores of 64,          Again and Again.

DEATH OF THOMAS CARLYLE

Feb. 10, '81.--And so the flame of the lamp, after long wasting and flickering, has gone out
entirely.

As a representative author, a literary figure, no man else will bequeath to the future more
significant hints of our stormy era, its fierce paradoxes, its din, and its struggling parturition
periods, than Carlyle. He belongs to our own branch of the stock too; neither Latin nor Greek,
but altogether Gothic. Rugged, mountainous, volcanic, he was himself more a French revolution
than any of his volumes. In some respects, so far in the Nineteenth century, the best equipt,
keenest mind, even from the college point of view, of all Britain; only he had an ailing body.
Dyspepsia is to be traced in every page, and now and then fills the page. One may include among
the lessons of his life--even though that life stretch'd to amazing length--how behind the
tally of genius and morals stands the stomach, and gives a sort of casting vote.

Two conflicting agonistic elements seem to have contended in the man, sometimes pulling him
different ways like wild horses. He was a cautious, conservative Scotchman, fully aware what
a foetid gas-bag much of modern radicalism is; but then his great heart demanded reform, demanded
change--often terribly at odds with his scornful brain. No author ever put so much wailing
and despair into his books, sometimes palpable, oftener latent. He reminds me of that passage
in Young's poems where as death presses closer and closer for his prey, the soul rushes hither
and thither, appealing, shrieking, berating, to escape the general doom.

Of short-comings, even positive blur-spots, from an American point of view, he had serious share.

Not for his merely literary merit, (though that was great)--not as "maker of books," but as
launching into the self-complacent atmosphere of our days a rasping, questioning, dislocating
agitation and shock, is Carlyle's final value. It is time the English-speaking peoples had
some true idea about the verteber of genius, namely power. As if they must always have it cut
and bias'd to the fashion, like a lady's cloak! What a needed service he performs! How he shakes
our comfortable reading circles with a touch of the old Hebraic anger and prophecy--and indeed
it is just the same. Not Isaiah himself more scornful, more threatening: "The crown of pride,
the drunkards of Ephraim, shall be trodden under feet: And the glorious beauty which is on
the head of the fat valley shall be a fading flower." (The word prophecy is much misused; it
seems narrow'd to prediction merely. That is not the main sense of the Hebrew word translated
"prophet;" it means one whose mind bubbles up and pours forth as a fountain, from inner, divine
spontaneities revealing God. Prediction is a very minor part of prophecy. The great matter
is to reveal and outpour the God-like suggestions pressing for birth in the soul. This is briefly
the doctrine of the Friends or Quakers.)

Then the simplicity and amid ostensible frailty the towering strength of this man--a hardy
oak knot, you could never wear out--an old farmer dress'd in brown clothes, and not handsome--his
very foibles fascinating. Who cares that he wrote about Dr. Francia, and "Shooting Niagara"--and
"the Nigger Question,"--and didn't at all admire our United States? (I doubt if he ever thought
or said half as bad words about us as we deserve.) How he splashes like leviathan in the seas
of modern literature and politics! Doubtless, respecting the latter, one needs first to realize,
from actual observation, the squalor, vice and doggedness ingrain'd in the bulk-population
of the British islands, with the red tape, the fatuity, the flunkeyism everywhere, to understand
the last meaning in his pages. Accordingly, though he was no chartist or radical, I consider
Carlyle's by far the most indignant comment or protest anent the fruits of feudalism to-day
in Great Britain--the increasing poverty and degradation of the homeless, landless twenty millions,
while a few thousands, or rather a few hundreds, possess the entire soil, the money, and the
fat berths. Trade and shipping, and clubs and culture, and prestige, and guns, and a fine select
class of gentry and aristocracy, with every modern improvement, cannot begin to salve or defend
such stupendous hoggishness.

The way to test how much he has left his country were to consider, or try to consider, for
a moment, the array of British thought, the resultant ensemble of the last fifty years, as
existing to-day, but with Carlyle left out. It would be like an army with no artillery. The
show were still a gay and rich one--Byron, Scott, Tennyson, and many more--horsemen and rapid
infantry, and banners flying--but the last heavy roar so dear to the ear of the train'd soldier,
and that settles fate and victory, would be lacking.

For the last three years we in America have had transmitted glimpses of a thin-bodied, lonesome,
wifeless, childless, very old man, lying on a sofa, kept out of bed by indomitable will, but,
of late, never well enough to take the open air. I have noted this news from time to time in
brief descriptions in the papers. A week ago I read such an item just before I started out
for my customary evening stroll between eight and nine. In the fine cold night, unusually clear,
(Feb. 5, '81,) as I walk'd some open grounds adjacent, the condition of Carlyle, and his approaching--perhaps
even then actual--death, filled me with thoughts eluding statement, and curiously blending
with the scene. The planet Venus, an hour high in the west, with all her volume and lustre
recover'd, (she has been shorn and languid for nearly a year,) including an additional sentiment
I never noticed before--not merely voluptuous, Paphian, steeping, fascinating--now with calm
commanding seriousness and hauteur--the Milo Venus now. Upward to the zenith, Jupiter, Saturn,
and the moon past her quarter, trailing in procession, with the Pleiades following, and the
constellation Taurus, and red Aldebaran. Not a cloud in heaven. Orion strode through the southeast,
with his glittering belt--and a trifle below hung the sun of the night, Sirius. Every star
dilated, more vitreous, nearer than usual. Not as in some clear nights when the larger stars
entirely outshine the rest. Every little star or cluster just as distinctly visible, and just
as nigh. Berenice's hair showing every gem, and new ones. To the northeast and north the Sickle,
the Goat and kids, Cassiopeia, Castor and Pollux, and the two Dippers. While through the whole
of this silent indescribable show, inclosing and bathing my whole receptivity, ran the thought
of Carlyle dying. (To soothe and spiritualize, and, as far as may be, solve the mysteries of
death and genius, consider them under the stars at midnight.)

And now that he has gone hence, can it be that Thomas Carlyle, soon to chemically dissolve
in ashes and by winds, remains an identity still? In ways perhaps eluding all the statements,
lore and speculations of ten thousand years--eluding all possible statements to mortal sense--does
he yet exist, a definite, vital being, a spirit, an individual--perhaps now wafted in space
among those stellar systems, which, suggestive and limitless as they are, merely edge more
limitless, far more suggestive systems? I have no doubt of it. In silence, of a fine night,
such questions are answer'd to the soul, the best answers that can be given. With me, too,
when depress'd by some specially sad event, or tearing problem, I wait till I go out under
the stars for the last voiceless satisfaction.

CARLYLE FROM AMERICAN POINTS OF VIEW

Later Thoughts and Jottings

There is surely at present an inexplicable rapport (all the more piquant from its contradictoriness)
between that deceas'd author and our United States of America--no matter whether it lasts or
not[13] As we Westerners assume definite shape, and result in formations and fruitage unknown
before, it is curious with what a new sense our eyes turn to representative outgrowths of crises
and personages in the Old World. Beyond question, since Carlyle's death, and the publication
of Froude's memoirs, not only the interest in his books, but every personal bit regarding the
famous Scotchman--his dyspepsia, his buffetings, his parentage, his paragon of a wife, his
career in Edinburgh, in the lonesome nest on Craigenputtock moor, and then so many years in
London--is probably wider and livelier to-day in this country than in his own land. Whether
I succeed or no, I, too, reaching across the Atlantic and taking the man's dark fortune-telling
of humanity and politics, would offset it all, (such is the fancy that comes to me,) by a far
more profound horoscope-casting of those themes--G. F. Hegel's.[14]

First, about a chance, a never-fulfill'd vacuity of this pale cast of thought--this British
Hamlet from Cheyne row, more puzzling than the Danish one, with his contrivances for settling
the broken and spavin'd joints of the world's government, especially its democratic dislocation.
Carlyle's grim fate was cast to live and dwell in, and largely embody, the parturition agony
and qualms of the old order, amid crowded accumulations of ghastly morbidity, giving birth
to the new.

But conceive of him (or his parents before him) coming to America, recuperated by the cheering
realities and activity of our people and country--growing up and delving face-to-face resolutely
among us here, especially at the West--inhaling and exhaling our limitless air and eligibilities--devoting
his mind to the theories and developments of this Republic amid its practical facts as exemplified
in Kansas, Missouri, Illinois, Tennessee, or Louisiana. I say facts, and face-to-face confrontings--so
different from books, and all those quiddities and mere reports in the libraries, upon which
the man (it was wittily said of him at the age of thirty, that there was no one in Scotland
who had glean'd so much and seen so little,) almost wholly fed, and which even his sturdy and
vital mind but reflected at best.

Something of the sort narrowly escaped happening. In 1835, after more than a dozen years of
trial and non-success, the author of "Sartor Resartus" removing to London, very poor, a confirmed
hypochondriac, "Sartor" universally scoffed at, no literary prospects ahead, deliberately settled
on one last casting throw of the literary dice--resolv'd to compose and launch forth a book
on the subject of the French Revolution--and if that won no higher guerdon or prize than hitherto,
to sternly abandon the trade of author forever, and emigrate for good to America. But the venture
turn'd out a lucky one, and there was no emigration.

Carlyle's work in the sphere of literature as he commenced and carried it out, is the same
in one or two leading respects that Immanuel Kant's was in speculative philosophy. But the
Scotchman had none of the stomachic phlegm and never-perturb'd placidity of the Konigsberg
sage, and did not, like the latter, understand his own limits, and stop when he got to the
end of them. He clears away jungle and poisonvines and underbrush--at any rate hacks valiantly
at them, smiting hip and thigh. Kant did the like in his sphere, and it was all he profess'd
to do; his labors have left the ground fully prepared ever since--and greater service was probably
never perform'd by mortal man. But the pang and hiatus of Carlyle seem to me to consist in
the evidence everywhere that amid a whirl of fog and fury and cross-purposes, he firmly believ'd
he had a clue to the medication of the world's ills, and that his bounden mission was to exploit
it.[15]

There were two anchors, or sheet-anchors, for steadying, as a last resort, the Carlylean ship.
One will be specified presently. The other, perhaps the main, was only to be found in some
mark'd form of personal force, an extreme degree of competent urge and will, a man or men "born
to command." Probably there ran through every vein and current of the Scotchman's blood something
that warm'd up to this kind of trait and character above aught else in the world, and which
makes him in my opinion the chief celebrater and promulger of it in literature--more than Plutarch,
more than Shakspere. The great masses of humanity stand for nothing--at least nothing but nebulous
raw material; only the big planets and shining suns for him. To ideas almost invariably languid
or cold, a number-one forceful personality was sure to rouse his eulogistic passion and savage
joy. In such case, even the standard of duty hereinafter rais'd, was to be instantly lower'd
and vail'd. All that is comprehended under the terms republicanism and democracy were distasteful
to him from the first, and as he grew older they became hateful and contemptible. For an undoubtedly
candid and penetrating faculty such as his, the bearings he persistently ignored were marvellous.
For instance, the promise, nay certainty of the democratic principle, to each and every State
of the current world, not so much of helping it to perfect legislators and executives, but
as the only effectual method for surely, however slowly, training people on a large scale toward
voluntarily ruling and managing themselves (the ultimate aim of political and all other development)--to
gradually reduce the fact of governing to its minimum, and to subject all its staffs and their
doings to the telescopes and microscopes of committees and parties--and greatest of all, to
afford (not stagnation and obedient content, which went well enough with the feudalism and
ecclesiasticism of the antique and medieval world, but) a vast and sane and recurrent ebb and
tide action for those floods of the great deep that have henceforth palpably burst forever
their old bounds--seem never to have enter'd Carlyle's thought. It was splendid how he refus'd
any compromise to the last. He was curiously antique. In that harsh, picturesque, most potent
voice and figure, one seems to be carried back from the present of the British islands more
than two thousand years, to the range between Jerusalem and Tarsus. His fullest best biographer
justly says of him:

He was a teacher and a prophet, in the Jewish sense of the word. The prophecies of Isaiah and
Jeremiah have become a part of the permanent spiritual inheritance of mankind, because events
proved that they had interpreted correctly the sign of their own times, and their prophecies
were fulfill'd. Carlyle, like them, believ'd that he had a special message to deliver to the
present age. Whether he was correct in that belief, and whether his message was a true message,
remains to be seen. He has told us that our most cherish'd ideas of political liberty, with
their kindred corollaries, are mere illusions, and that the progress which has seem'd to go
along with them is a progress towards anarchy and social dissolution. If he was wrong, he has
misused his powers. The principles of his teachings are false. He has offer'd himself as a
guide upon a road of which he had no knowledge; and his own desire for himself would be the
speediest oblivion both of his person and his works. If, on the other hand, he has been right;
if, like his great predecessors, he has read truly the tendencies of this modern age of ours,
and his teaching is authenticated by facts, then Carlyle, too, will take his place among the
inspired seers.

To which I add an amendment that under no circumstances, and no matter how completely time
and events disprove his lurid vaticinations, should the English-speaking world forget this
man, nor fail to hold in honor his unsurpass'd conscience, his unique method, and his honest
fame. Never were convictions more earnest and genuine. Never was there less of a flunkey or
temporizer. Never had political progressivism a foe it could more heartily respect.

The second main point of Carlyle's utterance was the idea of duty being done. (It is simply
a new codicil--if it be particularly new, which is by no means certain--on the time-honor'd
bequest of dynasticism, the mould-eaten rules of legitimacy and kings.) He seems to have been
impatient sometimes to madness when reminded by persons who thought at least as deeply as himself,
that this formula, though precious, is rather a vague one, and that there are many other considerations
to a philosophical estimate of each and every department either.

Altogether, I don't know anything more amazing than these persistent strides and throbbings
so far through our Nineteenth century of perhaps its biggest, sharpest, and most erudite brain,
in defiance and discontent with everything; contemptuously ignoring, (either from constitutional
inaptitude, ignorance itself, or more likely because he demanded a definite cure-all here and
now,) the only solace and solvent to be had. He seems instead to have been haunted in the play
of his mental action by a spectre, never entirely laid from first to last, (Greek scholars,
I believe, find the same mocking and fantastic apparition attending Aristophanes, his comedies,)--the
spectre of world-destruction.

How largest triumph or failure in human life, in war or peace, may depend on some little hidden
centrality, hardly more than a drop of blood, a pulse-beat, or a breath of air! It is certain
that all these weighty matters, democracy in America, Carlyleism, and the temperament for deepest
political or literary exploration, turn on a simple point in speculative philosophy.

The most profound theme that can occupy the mind of man--the problem on whose solution science,
art, the bases and pursuits of nations, and everything else, including intelligent human happiness,
(here to-day, 1882, New York, Texas, California, the same as all times, all lands,) subtly
and finally resting, depends for competent outset and argument, is doubtless involved in the
query: What is the fusing explanation and tie--what the relation between the (radical, democratic)
Me, the human identity of understanding, emotions, spirit, &c., on the one side, of and with
the (conservative) Not Me, the whole of the material objective universe and laws, with what
is behind them in time and space, on the other side? Immanuel Kant, though he explain'd or
partially explain'd, as may be said, the laws of the human understanding, left this question
an open one. Schelling's answer, or suggestion of answer, is (and very valuable and important,
as far as it goes,) that the same general and particular intelligence, passion, even the standards
of right and wrong, which exist in a conscious and formulated state in man, exist in an unconscious
state, or in perceptible analogies, throughout the entire universe of external Nature, in all
its objects large or small, and all its movements and processes--thus making the impalpable
human mind, and concrete nature, notwithstanding their duality and separation, convertible,
and in centrality and essence one. But G. F. Hegel's fuller statement of the matter probably
remains the last best word that has been said upon it, up to date. Substantially adopting the
scheme just epitomized, he so carries it out and fortifies it and merges everything in it,
with certain serious gaps now for the first time fill'd, that it becomes a coherent metaphysical
system, and substantial answer (as far as there can be any answer) to the foregoing question--a
system which, while I distinctly admit that the brain of the future may add to, revise, and
even entirely reconstruct, at any rate beams forth to-day, in its entirety, illuminating the
thought of the universe, and satisfying the mystery thereof to the human mind, with a more
consoling scientific assurance than any yet.

According to Hegel the whole earth, (an old nucleus-thought, as in the Vedas, and no doubt
before, but never hitherto brought so absolutely to the front, fully surcharged with modern
scientism and facts, and made the sole entrance to each and all,) with its infinite variety,
the past, the surroundings of to-day, or what may happen in the future, the contrarieties of
material with spiritual, and of natural with artificial, are all, to the eye of the ensemblist,
but necessary sides and unfoldings, different steps or links, in the endless process of Creative
thought, which, amid numberless apparent failures and contradictions, is held together by central
and never-broken unity--not contradictions or failures at all, but radiations of one consistent
and eternal purpose; the whole mass of everything steadily, unerringly tending and flowing
toward the permanent utile and morale, as rivers to oceans. As life is the whole law and incessant
effort of the visible universe, and death only the other or invisible side of the same, so
the utile, so truth, so health are the continuous-immutable laws of the moral universe, and
vice and disease, with all their perturbations, are but transient, even if ever so prevalent
expressions.

To politics throughout, Hegel applies the like catholic standard and faith. Not any one party,
or any one form of government, is absolutely and exclusively true. Truth consists in the just
relations of objects to each other. A majority or democracy may rule as outrageously and do
as great harm as an oligarchy or despotism--though far less likely to do so. But the great
evil is either a violation of the relations just referr'd to, or of the moral law. The specious,
the unjust, the cruel, and what is called the unnatural, though not only permitted but in a
certain sense, (like shade to light,) inevitable in the divine scheme, are by the whole constitution
of that scheme, partial, inconsistent, temporary, and though having ever so great an ostensible
majority, are certainly destin'd to failures, after causing great suffering.

Theology, Hegel translates into science.[16] All apparent contradictions in the statement of
the Deific nature by different ages, nations, churches, points of view, are but fractional
and imperfect expressions of one essential unity, from which they all proceed--crude endeavors
or distorted parts, to be regarded both as distinct and united. In short (to put it in our
own form, or summing up,) that thinker or analyzer or overlooker who by an inscrutable combination
of train'd wisdom and natural intuition most fully accepts in perfect faith the moral unity
and sanity of the creative scheme, in history, science, and all life and time, present and
future, is both the truest cosmical devotee or religioso, and the profoundest philosopher.
While he who, by the spell of himself and his circumstance, sees darkness and despair in the
sum of the workings of God's providence, and who, in that, denies or prevaricates, is, no matter
how much piety plays on his lips, the most radical sinner and infidel.

I am the more assured in recounting Hegel a little freely here,[17] not only for offsetting
the Carlylean letter and spirit-cutting it out all and several from the very roots, and below
the roots--but to counterpoise, since the late death and deserv'd apotheosis of Darwin, the
tenets of the evolutionists. Unspeakably precious as those are to biology, and henceforth indispensable
to a right aim and estimate in study, they neither comprise or explain everything--and the
last word or whisper still remains to be breathed, after the utmost of those claims, floating
high and forever above them all, and above technical metaphysics. While the contributions which
German Kant and Fichte and Schelling and Hegel have bequeath'd to humanity--and which English
Darwin has also in his field--are indispensable to the erudition of America's future, I should
say that in all of them, and the best of them, when compared with the lightning flashes and
flights of the old prophets and exaltes, the spiritual poets and poetry of all lands, (as in
the Hebrew Bible,) there seems to be, nay certainly is, something lacking--something cold,
a failure to satisfy the deepest emotions of the soul--a want of living glow, fondness, warmth,
which the old exaltes and poets supply, and which the keenest modern philosophers so far do not.

Upon the whole, and for our purposes, this man's name certainly belongs on the list with the
just-specified, first-class moral physicians of our current era--and with Emerson and two or
three others--though his prescription is drastic, and perhaps destructive, while theirs is
assimilating, normal and tonic. Feudal at the core, and mental offspring and radiation of feudalism
as are his books, they afford ever-valuable lessons and affinities to democratic America. Nations
or individuals, we surely learn deepest from unlikeness, from a sincere opponent, from the
light thrown even scornfully on dangerous spots and liabilities. (Michel Angelo invoked heaven's
special protection against his friends and affectionate flatterers; palpable foes he could
manage for himself.) In many particulars Carlyle was indeed, as Froude terms him, one of those
far-off Hebraic utterers, a new Micah or Habbakuk. His words at times bubble forth with abysmic
inspiration. Always precious, such men; as precious now as any time. His rude, rasping, taunting,
contradictory tones--what ones are more wanted amid the supple, polish'd, money--worshipping,
Jesus-and-Judas-equalizing, suffrage-sovereignty echoes of current America? He has lit up our
Nineteenth century with the light of a powerful, penetrating, and perfectly honest intellect
of the first class, turn'd on British and European politics, social life, literature, and representative
personages--thoroughly dissatisfied with all, and mercilessly exposing the illness of all.
But while he announces the malady, and scolds and raves about it, he himself, born and bred
in the same atmosphere, is a mark'd illustration of it.

Notes:

[13] It will be difficult for the future--judging by his books, personal dissympathies, &c.,--to
account for the deep hold this author has taken on the present age, and the way he has color'd
its method and thought. I am certainly at a loss to account for it all as affecting myself.
But there could be no view, or even partial picture, of the middle and latter part of our Nineteenth
century, that did not markedly include Thomas Carlyle. In his case (as so many others, literary
productions, works of art, personal identities, events,) there has been an impalpable something
more effective than the palpable. Then I find no better text, (it is always important to have
a definite, special, even oppositional, living man to start from,) for sending out certain
speculations and comparisons for home use. Let us see what they amount to--those reactionary
doctrines, fears, scornful analyses of democracy--even from the most erudite and sincere mind
of Europe.

[14] Not the least mentionable part of the case, (a streak, it may be, of that humor with which
history and fate love to contrast their gravity,) is that although neither of my great authorities
during their lives consider'd the United States worthy of serious mention, all the principal
works of both might not inappropriately be this day collected and bound up under the conspicuous
title: Speculations for the use of North America, and Democracy there with the relations of
the same to Metaphysics, including Lessons and Warnings (encouragements too, and of the vastest,)
from the Old World to the New.

[15] I hope I shall not myself fall into the error I charge upon him, of prescribing a specific
for indispensable evils. My utmost pretension is probably but to offset that old claim of the
exclusively curative power of first-class individual men, as leaders and rulers, by the claims,
and general movement and result, of ideas. Something of the latter kind seems to me the distinctive
theory of America, of democracy, and of the modern--or rather, I should say, it is democracy,
and is the modern.

[16] I am much indebted to J. Gostick's abstract.

[17] I have deliberately repeated it all, not only in offset to Carlyle' s everlurking pessimism
and world-decadence, but as presenting the most thoroughly American points of view I know.
In my opinion the above formulas of Hegel are an essential and crowning justification of New
World democracy in the creative realms of time and space. There is that about them which only
the vastness, the multiplicity and the vitality of America would seem able to comprehend, to
give scope and illustration to, or to be fit for, or even originate. It is strange to me that
they were born in Germany, or in the old world at all. While a Carlyle, I should say, is quite
the legitimate European product to be expected.

A COUPLE OF OLD FRIENDS--A COLERIDGE BIT

Latter April.--Have run down in my country haunt for a couple of days, and am spending them
by the pond. I had already discover'd my kingfisher here (but only one--the mate not here yet.)
This fine bright morning, down by the creek, he has come out for a spree, circling, flirting,
chirping at a round rate. While I am writing these lines he is disporting himself in scoots
and rings over the wider parts of the pond, into whose surface he dashes, once or twice making
a loud souse--the spray flying in the sun--beautiful! I see his white and dark-gray plumage
and peculiar shape plainly, as he has deign'd to come very near me. The noble, graceful bird!
Now he is sitting on the limb of an old tree, high up, bending over the water--seems to be
looking at me while I memorandize. I almost fancy he knows me. Three days later.--My second
kingfisher is here with his (or her) mate. I saw the two together flying and whirling around.
I had heard, in the distance, what I thought was the clear rasping staccato of the birds several
times already--but I couldn't be sure the notes came from both until I saw them together. To-day
at noon they appear'd, but apparently either on business, or for a little limited exercise
only. No wild frolic now, full of free fun and motion, up and down for an hour. Doubtless,
now they have cares, duties, incubation responsibilities. The frolics are deferr'd till summer-close.

A WEEK'S VISIT TO BOSTON

May 1, '81.--Seems as if all the ways and means of American travel to-day had been settled,
not only with reference to speed and directness, but for the comfort of women, children, invalids,
and old fellows like me. I went on by a through train that runs daily from Washington to the
Yankee metropolis without change. You get in a sleeping-car soon after dark in Philadelphia,
and after ruminating an hour or two, have your bed made up if you like, draw the curtains,
and go to sleep in it--fly on through Jersey to New York--hear in your half-slumbers a dull
jolting and bumping sound or two--are unconsciously toted from Jersey City by a midnight steamer
around the Battery and under the big bridge to the track of the New Haven road--resume your
flight eastward, and early the next morning you wake up in Boston. All of which was my experience.
I wanted to go to the Revere house. A tall unknown gentleman, (a fellow-passenger on his way
to Newport he told me, I had just chatted a few moments before with him,) assisted me out through
the depot crowd, procured a hack, put me in it with my traveling bag, saying smilingly and
quietly, "Now I want you to let this be my ride," paid the driver, and before I could remonstrate
bow'd himself off.

The occasion of my jaunt, I suppose I had better say here, was for a public reading of "the
death of Abraham Lincoln" essay, on the sixteenth anniversary of that tragedy; which reading
duly came off, night of April 15. Then I linger'd a week in Boston--felt pretty well (the mood
propitious, my paralysis lull'd)--went around everywhere, and saw all that was to be seen,
especially human beings. Boston's immense material growth--commerce, finance, commission stores,
the plethora of goods, the crowded streets and sidewalks--made of course the first surprising
show. In my trip out West, last year, I thought the wand of future prosperity, future empire,
must soon surely be wielded by St. Louis, Chicago, beautiful Denver, perhaps San Francisco;
but I see the said wand stretch'd out just as decidedly in Boston, with just as much certainty
of staying; evidences of copious capital--indeed no centre of the New World ahead of it, (half
the big railroads in the West are built with Yankees' money, and they take the dividends.)
Old Boston with its zigzag streets and multitudinous angles, (crush up a sheet of letter-paper
in your hand, throw it down, stamp it flat, and that is a map of old Boston)--new Boston with
its miles upon miles of large and costly houses--Beacon street, Commonwealth avenue, and a
hundred others. But the best new departures and expansions of Boston, and of all the cities
of New England, are in another direction.

THE BOSTON OF TO-DAY

In the letters we get from Dr. Schliemann (interesting but fishy) about his excavations there
in the far-off Homeric area, I notice cities, ruins, &c., as he digs them out of their graves,
are certain to be in layers--that is to say, upon the foundation of an old concern, very far
down indeed, is always another city or set of ruins, and upon that another superadded--and
sometimes upon that still another--each representing either a long or rapid stage of growth
and development, different from its predecessor, but unerringly growing out of and resting
on it. In the moral, emotional, heroic, and human growths, (the main of a race in my opinion,)
something of this kind has certainly taken place in Boston. The New England metropolis of to-day
may be described as sunny, (there is something else that makes warmth, mastering even winds
and meteorologies, though those are not to be sneez'd at,) joyous, receptive, full of ardor,
sparkle, a certain element of yearning, magnificently tolerant, yet not to be fool'd; fond
of good eating and drinking--costly in costume as its purse can buy; and all through its best
average of houses, streets, people, that subtle something (generally thought to be climate,
but it is not--it is something indefinable in the race, the turn of its development) which
effuses behind the whirl of animation, study, business, a happy and joyous public spirit, as
distinguish'd from a sluggish and saturnine one. Makes me think of the glints we get (as in
Symonds's books) of the jolly old Greek cities. Indeed there is a good deal of the Hellenic
in B., and the people are getting handsomer too--padded out, with freer motions, and with color
in their faces. I never saw (although this is not Greek) so many fine-looking gray-hair'd women.
At my lecture I caught myself pausing more than once to look at them, plentiful everywhere
through the audience--healthy and wifely and motherly, and wonderfully charming and beautiful--I
think such as no time or land but ours could show.

MY TRIBUTE TO FOUR POETS

April 16.--A short but pleasant visit to Longfellow. I am not one of the calling kind, but
as the author of "Evangeline" kindly took the trouble to come and see me three years ago in
Camden, where I was ill, I felt not only the impulse of my own pleasure on that occasion, but
a duty. He was the only particular eminence I called on in Boston, and I shall not soon forget
his lit-up face and glowing warmth and courtesy, in the modes of what is called the old school.

And now just here I feel the impulse to interpolate something about the mighty four who stamp
this first American century with its birthmarks of poetic literature. In a late magazine one
of my reviewers, who ought to know better, speaks of my "attitude of contempt and scorn and
intolerance" toward the leading poets--of my "deriding" them, and preaching their "uselessness."
If anybody cares to know what I think--and have long thought and avow'd--about them, I am entirely
willing to propound. I can't imagine any better luck befalling these States for a poetical
beginning and initiation than has come from Emerson, Longfellow, Bryant, and Whittier. Emerson,
to me, stands unmistakably at the head, but for the others I am at a loss where to give any
precedence. Each illustrious, each rounded, each distinctive. Emerson for his sweet, vital-tasting
melody, rhym'd philosophy, and poems as amber-clear as the honey of the wild bee he loves to
sing. Longfellow for rich color, graceful forms and incidents--all that makes life beautiful
and love refined--competing with the singers of Europe on their own ground, and, with one exception,
better and finer work than that of any of them. Bryant pulsing the first interior verse-throbs
of a mighty world--bard of the river and the wood, ever conveying a taste of open air, with
scents as from hayfields, grapes, birch-borders--always lurkingly fond of threnodies--beginning
and ending his long career with chants of death, with here and there through all, poems, or
passages of poems, touching the highest universal truths, enthusiasms, duties--morals as grim
and eternal, if not as stormy and fateful, as anything in Eschylus. While in Whittier, with
his special themes--(his outcropping love of heroism and war, for all his Quakerdom, his verses
at times like the measur'd step of Cromwell's old veterans)--in Whittier lives the zeal, the
moral energy, that founded New England--the splendid rectitude and ardor of Luther, Milton,
George Fox--I must not, dare not, say the wilfulness and narrowness--though doubtless the world
needs now, and always will need, almost above all, just such narrowness and wilfulness.

MILLET'S PICTURES LAST ITEMS

April 18.--Went out three or four miles to the house of Quincy Shaw, to see a collection of
J. F. Millet's pictures. Two rapt hours. Never before have I been so penetrated by this kind
of expression. I stood long and long before "the Sower." I believe what the picture-men designate
"the first Sower," as the artist executed a second copy, and a third, and, some think, improved
in each. But I doubt it. There is something in this that could hardly be caught again--a sublime
murkiness and original pent fury. Besides this masterpiece, there were many others, (I shall
never forget the simple evening scene, "Watering the Cow,") all inimitable, all perfect as
pictures, works of mere art; and then it seem'd to me, with that last impalpable ethic purpose
from the artist (most likely unconscious to himself) which I am always looking for. To me all
of them told the full story of what went before and necessitated the great French revolution--the
long precedent crushing of the masses of a heroic people into the earth, in abject poverty,
hunger--every right denied, humanity attempted to be put back for generations--yet Nature's
force, titanic here, the stronger and hardier for that repression--waiting terribly to break
forth, revengeful--the pressure on the dykes, and the bursting at last--the storming of the
Bastile--the execution of the king and queen--the tempest of massacres and blood. Yet who can
wonder?

    Could we wish humanity different?
    Could we wish the people made of wood or stone?
    Or that there be no justice in destiny or time?

The true France, base of all the rest, is certainly in these pictures. I comprehend "Field-People
Reposing," "the Diggers," and "the Angelus" in this opinion. Some folks always think of the
French as a small race, five or five and a half feet high, and ever frivolous and smirking.
Nothing of the sort. The bulk of the personnel of France, before the revolution, was large-sized,
serious, industrious as now, and simple. The revolution and Napoleon's wars dwarf'd the standard
of human size, but it will come up again. If for nothing else, I should dwell on my brief Boston
visit for opening to me the new world of Millet's pictures. Will America ever have such an
artist out of her own gestation, body, soul?

Sunday, April 17.--An hour and a half, late this afternoon, in silence and half light, in the
great nave of Memorial hall, Cambridge, the walls thickly cover'd with mural tablets, bearing
the names of students and graduates of the university who fell in the secession war.

April 23.--It was well I got away in fair order, for if I had staid another week I should have
been killed with kindness, and with eating and drinking.

BIRDS--AND A CAUTION

May 14.--Home again; down temporarily in the Jersey woods. Between 8 and 9 A.M. a full concert
of birds, from different quarters, in keeping with the fresh scent, the peace, the naturalness
all around me. I am lately noticing the russet-back, size of the robin or a trifle less, light
breast and shoulders, with irregular dark stripes--tail long--sits hunch'd up by the hour these
days, top of a tall bush, or some tree, singing blithely. I often get near and listen, as he
seems tame; I like to watch the working of his bill and throat, the quaint sidle of his body,
and flex of his long tail. I hear the woodpecker, and night and early morning the shuttle of
the whip-poor-will--noons, the gurgle of thrush delicious, and meo-o-ow of the cat-bird. Many
I cannot name; but I do not very particularly seek information. (You must not know too much,
or be too precise or scientific about birds and trees and flowers and water-craft; a certain
free margin, and even vagueness--perhaps ignorance, credulity--helps your enjoyment of these
things, and of the sentiment of feather'd, wooded, river, or marine Nature generally. I repeat
it --don't want to know too exactly, or the reasons why. My own notes have been written off-hand
in the latitude of middle New Jersey. Though they describe what I saw--what appear'd to me--I
dare say the expert ornithologist, botanist or entomologist will detect more than one slip
in them.)

SAMPLES OF MY COMMON-PLACE BOOK

I ought not to offer a record of these days, interests, recuperations, without including a
certain old, well-thumb'd common-place book,[18] filled with favorite excerpts, I carried in
my pocket for three summers, and absorb'd over and over again, when the mood invited. I find
so much in having a poem or fine suggestion sink into me (a little then goes a great ways)
prepar'd by these vacant-sane and natural influences.

Note:

[18] Samples of my common-place book down at the creek:

I have--says old Pindar--many swift arrows in my quiver which speak to the wise, though they
need an interpreter to the thoughtless. Such a man as it takes ages to make, and ages to understand.
H. D. Thoreau.

If you hate a man, don't kill him, but let him live.--Buddhistic. Famous swords are made of
refuse scraps, thought worthless.

Poetry is the only verity--the expression of a sound mind speaking after the ideal--and not
after the apparent.--Emerson.

The form of oath among the Shoshone Indians is, "The earth hears me. The sun hears me. Shall
I lie?"

    The whole wide ether is the eagle's sway:
    The whole earth is a brave man's fatherland.--Euripides.

    Spices crush'd, their pungence yield,
      Trodden scents their sweets respire;
    Would you have its strength reveal'd?
      Cast the incense in the fire.

Matthew Arnold speaks of "the huge Mississippi of falsehood called History."

    The wind blows north, the wind blows south,
        The wind blows east and west;
    No matter how the free wind blows,
         Some ship will find it best.

Preach not to others what they should eat, but eat as becomes you, and be silent.--Epictetus.

Victor Hugo makes a donkey meditate and apostrophize thus:

    My brother, man, if you would know the truth,
    We both are by the same dull walls shut in;
    The gate is massive and the dungeon strong.
    But you look through the key-hole out beyond,
    And call this knowledge; yet have not at hand
    The key wherein to turn the fatal lock.

"William Cullen Bryant surprised me once," relates a writer in a New York paper, "by saying
that prose was the natural language of composition, and he wonder'd how anybody came to write
poetry."

John Burroughs, writing of Thoreau, says: "He improves with age--in fact requires age to take
off a little of his asperity, and fully ripen him. The world likes a good hater and refuser
almost as well as it likes a good lover and accepter--only it likes him farther off."

Louise Michel at the burial of Blanqui, (1881.)

Blanqui drill'd his body to subjection to his grand conscience and his noble passions, and
commencing as a young man, broke with all that is sybaritish in modern civilization. Without
the power to sacrifice self, great ideas will never bear fruit.

    Out of the leaping furnace flame
    A mass of molten silver came;
    Then, beaten into pieces three,
    Went forth to meet its destiny.
    The first a crucifix was made,
    Within a soldier's knapsack laid;
    The second was a locket fair,
    Where a mother kept her dead child's hair;
    The third--a bangle, bright and warm,
    Around a faithless woman's arm.

    A mighty pain to love it is,
    And'tis a pain that pain to miss;
    But of all pain the greatest pain,
    It is to love, but love in vain.

Maurice F. Egan on De Guerin.

    A pagan heart, a Christian soul had he,
      He followed Christ, yet for dead Pan he sigh'd,
      Till earth and heaven met within his breast:
    As if Theocritus in Sicily
      Had come upon the Figure crucified,
      And lost his gods in deep, Christ-given rest.

    And if I pray, the only prayer
      That moves my lips for me,
    Is, leave the mind that now I bear,
      And give me Liberty.--Emily Bronte.

    I travel on not knowing,
      I would not if I might;
    I would rather walk with God in the dark,
      Than go alone in the light;
    I would rather walk with Him by faith
      Than pick my way by sight

MY NATIVE SAND AND SALT ONCE MORE

July 25, '81.--Far Rockaway, L. I.--A good day here, on a jaunt, amid the sand and salt, a
steady breeze setting in from the sea, the sun shining, the sedge-odor, the noise of the surf,
a mixture of hissing and booming, the milk-white crest curling. I had a leisurely bath and
naked ramble as of old, on the warm-gray shore-sands, my companions off in a oat in deeper
water--(I shouting to them Jupiter's menaces against the gods, from Pope's Homer) July 28--to
Long Branch--8-1/2 A.M., on the steamer "Plymouth Rock," foot of 23d street, New York, for
Long Branch. Another fine day, fine sights, the shores, the shipping and bay--everything comforting
to the body and spirit of me. (I find the human and objective atmosphere of New York city and
Brooklyn more affiliative to me than any other.) An hour later--Still on the steamer, now sniffing
the salt very plainly--the long pulsating swash as our boat steams seaward--the hills of Navesink
and many passing vessels--the air the best part of all. At Long Branch the bulk of the day,
stopt at a good hotel, took all very leisurely, had an excellent dinner, and then drove for
over two hours about the place, especially Ocean avenue, the finest drive one can imagine,
seven or eight miles right along the beach. In all directions costly villas, palaces, millionaires--(but
few among them I opine like my friend George W. Childs, whose personal integrity, generosity,
unaffected simplicity, go beyond all worldly wealth.)

HOT WEATHER NEW YORK

August.--In the big city awhile. Even the height of the dog-days, there is a good deal of fun
about New York, if you only avoid fluster, and take all the buoyant wholesomeness that offers.
More comfort, too, than most folks think. A middle-aged man, with plenty of money in his pocket,
tells me that he has been off for a month to all the swell places, has disburs'd a small fortune,
has been hot and out of kilter everywhere, and has return' d home and lived in New York city
the last two weeks quite contented and happy. People forget when it is hot here, it is generally
hotter still in other places.

New York is so situated, with the great ozonic brine on both sides, it comprises the most favorable
health-chances in the world. (If only the suffocating crowding of some of its tenement houses
could be broken up.) I find I never sufficiently realized how beautiful are the upper two-thirds
of Manhattan island. I am stopping at Mott Haven, and have been familiar now for ten days with
the region above One-hundredth street, and along the Harlem river and Washington heights. Am
dwelling a few days with my friends Mr. and Mrs. J. H. J., and a merry houseful of young ladies.
Am putting the last touches on the printer's copy of my new volume of "Leaves of Grass"--the
completed book at last. Work at it two or three hours, and then go down and loaf along the
Harlem river; have just had a good spell of this recreation. The sun sufficiently veil'd, a
soft south breeze, the river full of small or large shells (light taper boats) darting up and
down, some singly, now and then long ones with six or eight young fellows practicing--very
inspiriting sights. Two fine yachts lie anchor'd off the shore. I linger long, enjoying the
sundown, the glow, the streak'd sky, the heights, distances, shadows. Aug. 10.--As I haltingly
ramble an hour or two this forenoon by the more secluded parts of the shore, or sit under an
old cedar half way up the hill, the city near in view, many young parties gather to bathe or
swim, squads of boys, generally twos or threes, some larger ones, along the sand-bottom, or
off an old pier close by. A peculiar and pretty carnival--at its height a hundred lads or young
men, very democratic, but all decent behaving. The laughter, voices, calls, re-responses--the
springing and diving of the bathers from the great string-piece of the decay'd pier, where
climb or stand long ranks of them, naked, rose-color'd, with movements, postures ahead of any
sculpture. To all this, the sun, so bright, the dark-green shadow of the hills the other side,
the amber-rolling waves, changing as the tide comes in to a trans-parent tea-color--the frequent
splash of the playful boys, sousing--the glittering drops sparkling, and the good western breeze
blowing.

CUSTER'S LAST RALLY

Went to-day to see this just-finish'd painting by John Mulvany, who has been out in far Dakota,
on the spot, at the forts, and among the frontiersmen, soldiers and Indians, for the last two
years, on purpose to sketch it in from reality, or the best that could be got of it. Sat for
over an hour before the picture, completely absorb'd in the first view. A vast canvas, I should
say twenty or twenty-two feet by twelve, all crowded, and yet not crowded, conveying such a
vivid play of color, it takes a little time to get used to it. There are no tricks; there is
no throwing of shades in masses; it is all at first painfully real, overwhelming, needs good
nerves to look at it. Forty or fifty figures, perhaps more, in full finish and detail in the
mid-ground, with three times that number, or more, through the rest--swarms upon swarms of
savage Sioux, in their war-bonnets, frantic, mostly on ponies, driving through the background,
through the smoke, like a hurricane of demons. A dozen of the figures are wonderful. Altogether
a western, autochthonic phase of America, the frontiers, culminating, typical, deadly, heroic
to the uttermost--nothing in the books like it, nothing in Homer, nothing in Shakspere; more
grim and sublime than either, all native, all our own, and all a fact. A great lot of muscular,
tan-faced men, brought to bay under terrible circumstances--death ahold of them, yet every
man undaunted, not one losing his head, wringing out every cent of the pay before they sell
their lives. Custer (his hair cut short stands in the middle), with dilated eye and extended
arm, aiming a huge cavalry pistol. Captain Cook is there, partially wounded, blood on the white
handkerchief around his head, aiming his carbine coolly, half kneeling--(his body was afterwards
found close by Custer's.) The slaughter'd or half-slaughter'd horses, for breastworks, make
a peculiar feature. Two dead Indians, herculean, lie in the foreground, clutching their Winchester
rifles, very characteristic. The many soldiers, their faces and attitudes, the carbines, the
broad-brimm'd western hats, the powder-smoke in puffs, the dying horses with their rolling
eyes almost human in their agony, the clouds of war-bonneted Sioux in the background, the figures
of Custer and Cook--with indeed the whole scene, dreadful, yet with an attraction and beauty
that will remain in my memory. With all its color and fierce action, a certain Greek continence
pervades it. A sunny sky and clear light envelop all. There is an almost entire absence of
the stock traits of European war pictures. The physiognomy of the work is realistic and Western.
I only saw it for an hour or so; but it needs to be seen many times--needs to be studied over
and over again. I could look on such a work at brief intervals all my life without tiring;
it is very tonic to me; then it has an ethic purpose below all, as all great art must have.
The artist said the sending of the picture abroad, probably to London, had been talk'd of.
I advised him if it went abroad to take it to Paris. I think they might appreciate it there--nay,
they certainly would. Then I would like to show Messieur Crapeau that some things can be done
in America as well as others.

SOME OLD ACQUAINTANCES--MEMORIES

Aug. 16.--"Chalk a big mark for today," was one of the sayings of an old sportsman-friend of
mine, when he had had unusually good luck--come home thoroughly tired, but with satisfactory
results of fish or birds.

Well, to-day might warrant such a mark for me. Everything propitious from the start. An hour's
fresh stimulation, coming down ten miles of Manhattan island by railroad and 8 o'clock stage.
Then an excellent breakfast at Pfaff's restaurant, 24th street. Our host himself, an old friend
of mine, quickly appear'd on the scene to welcome me and bring up the news, and, first opening
a big fat bottle of the best wine in the cellar, talk about ante-bellum times, '59 and '60,
and the jovial suppers at his then Broadway place, near Bleecker street. Ah, the friends and
names and frequenters, those times, that place. Most are dead--Ada Clare, Wilkins, Daisy Sheppard,
O'Brien, Henry Clapp, Stanley, Mullin, Wood, Brougham, Arnold--all gone. And there Pfaff and
I, sitting opposite each other at the little table, gave a remembrance to them in a style they
would have themselves fully confirm'd, namely, big, brimming, fill'd-up champagne-glasses,
drain'd in abstracted silence, very leisurely, to the last drop. (Pfaff is a generous German
restaurateur, silent, stout, jolly, and I should say the best selecter of champagne in America.)

A DISCOVERY OF OLD AGE

Perhaps the best is always cumulative. One's eating and drinking one wants fresh, and for the
nonce, right off, and have done with it--but I would not give a straw for that person or poem,
or friend, or city, or work of art, that was not more grateful the second time than the first--and
more still the third. Nay, I do not believe any grandest eligibility ever comes forth at first.
In my own experience, (persons, poems, places, characters,) I discover the best hardly ever
at first, (no absolute rule about it, however,) sometimes suddenly bursting forth, or stealthily
opening to me, perhaps after years of unwitting familiarity, unappreciation, usage.

A VISIT, AT THE LAST, TO R. W. EMERSON

Concord, Mass.--Out here on a visit--elastic, mellow, Indian-summery weather. Came to-day from
Boston, (a pleasant ride of 40 minutes by steam, through Somerville, Belmont, Waltham, Stony
Brook, and other lively towns,) convoy'd by my friend F. B. Sanborn, and to his ample house,
and the kindness and hospitality of Mrs. S. and their fine family. Am writing this under the
shade of some old hickories and elms, just after 4 P.M., on the porch, within a stone's throw
of the Concord river. Off against me, across stream, on a meadow and side-hill, haymakers are
gathering and wagoning-in probably their second or third crop. The spread of emerald-green
and brown, the knolls, the score or two of little haycocks dotting the meadow, the loaded-up
wagons, the patient horses, the slow-strong action of the men and pitchforks--all in the just-waning
afternoon, with patches of yellow sun-sheen, mottled by long shadows--a cricket shrilly chirping,
herald of the dusk--a boat with two figures noiselessly gliding along the little river, passing
under the stone bridge-arch--the slight settling haze of aerial moisture, the sky and the peacefulness
expanding in all directions and overhead--fill and soothe me.

Same Evening.--Never had I a better piece of luck befall me: a long and blessed evening with
Emerson, in a way I couldn't have wish'd better or different. For nearly two hours he has been
placidly sitting where I could see his face in the best light, near me. Mrs. S.'s back-parlor
well fill'd with people, neighbors, many fresh and charming faces, women, mostly young, but
some old. My friend A. B. Alcott and his daughter Louisa were there early. A good deal of talk,
the subject Henry Thoreau--some new glints of his life and fortunes, with letters to and from
him--one of the best by Margaret Fuller, others by Horace Greeley, Channing, &c.--one from
Thoreau himself, most quaint and interesting. (No doubt I seem'd very stupid to the roomful
of company, taking hardly any part in the conversation; but I had "my own pail to milk in,"
as the Swiss proverb puts it.) My seat and the relative arrangement were such that, without
being rude, or anything of the kind, I could just look squarely at E., which I did a good part
of the two hours. On entering, he had spoken very briefly and politely to several of the company,
then settled himself in his chair, a trifle push'd back, and, though a listener and apparently
an alert one, remain'd silent through the whole talk and discussion. A lady friend quietly
took a seat next him, to give special attention.

Next Day.--Several hours at E.'s house, and dinner there. An old familiar house, (he has been
in it thirty-five years,) with surroundings, furnishment, roominess, and plain elegance and
fullness, signifying democratic ease, sufficient opulence, and an admirable old-fashioned simplicity--modern
luxury, with its mere sumptuousness and affectation, either touch'd lightly upon or ignored
altogether. Dinner the same. Of course the best of the occasion (Sunday, September 18, '81)
was the sight of E. himself. Besides Emerson himself, Mrs. E., with their daughter Ellen, the
son Edward and his wife, with my friend F. S. and Mrs. S., and others, relatives and intimates.
Mrs. Emerson, resuming the subject of the evening before, (I sat next to her,) gave me further
and fuller information about Thoreau, who, years ago, during Mr. E.'s absence in Europe, had
lived for some time in the family, by invitation.

OTHER CONCORD NOTATIONS

Though the evening at Mr. and Mrs. Sanborn's, and the memorable family dinner at Mr. and Mrs.
Emerson's, have most pleasantly and permanently fill'd my memory, I must not slight other notations
of Concord. I went to the old Manse, walk'd through the ancient garden, enter'd the rooms,
noted the quaintness, the unkempt grass and bushes, the little panes in the windows, the low
ceilings, the spicy smell, the creepers embowering the light. Went to the Concord battle ground,
which is close by, scann'd French's statue, "the Minute Man," read Emerson's poetic inscription
on the base, linger'd a long while on the bridge, and stopp'd by the grave of the unnamed British
soldiers buried there the day after the fight in April, '75. Then riding on, (thanks to my
friend Miss M. and her spirited white ponies, she driving them,) a half hour at Hawthorne's
and Thoreau's graves. I got out and went up of course on foot, and stood a long while and ponder'd.
They lie close together in a pleasant wooded spot well up the cemetery hill, "Sleepy Hollow."
The flat surface of the first was densely cover'd by myrtle, with a border of arbor-vitae,
and the other had a brown headstone, moderately elaborate, with inscriptions. By Henry's side
lies his brother John, of whom much was expected, but he died young. Then to Walden pond, that
beautiful embower'd sheet of water, and spent over an hour there. On the spot in the woods
where Thoreau had his solitary house is now quite a cairn of stones, to mark the place; I too
carried one and deposited on the heap. As we drove back, saw the "School of Philosophy," but
it was shut up, and I would not have it open'd for me. Near by stopp'd at the house of W.T.
Harris, the Hegelian, who came out, and we had a pleasant chat while I sat in the wagon. I
shall not soon forget those Concord drives, and especially that charming Sunday forenoon one
with my friend Miss M., and the white ponies.

BOSTON COMMON--MORE OF EMERSON

Oct. 10-13.--I spend a good deal of time on the Common, these delicious days and nights--every
mid-day from 11.30 to about 1--and almost every sunset another hour. I know all the big trees,
especially the old elms along Tremont and Beacon streets, and have come to a sociable silent
understanding with most of them, in the sunlit air, (yet crispy-cool enough,) as I saunter
along the wide unpaved walks. Up and down this breadth by Beacon street, between these same
old elms, I walk'd for two hours, of a bright sharp February mid-day twenty-one years ago,
with Emerson, then in his prime, keen, physically and morally magnetic, arm'd at every point,
and when he chose, wielding the emotional just as well as the intellectual. During those two
hours he was the talker and I the listener. It was an argument-statement, reconnoitring, review,
attack, and pressing home, (like an army corps in order, artillery, cavalry, infantry,) of
all that could be said against that part (and a main part) in the construction of my poems,
"Children of Adam." More precious than gold to me that dissertion--it afforded me, ever after,
this strange and paradoxical lesson; each point of E.'s statement was unanswerable, no judge's
charge ever more complete or convincing, I could never hear the points better put--and then
I felt down in my soul the clear and unmistakable conviction to disobey all, and pursue my
own way. "What have you to say then to such things?" said E., pausing in conclusion. "Only
that while I can't answer them at all, I feel more settled than ever to adhere to my own theory,
and exemplify it," was my candid response. Whereupon we went and had a good dinner at the American
House. And thenceforward I never waver'd or was touch'd with qualms, (as I confess I had been
two or three times before.)

AN OSSIANIC NIGHT--DEAREST FRIENDS

Nov., '81.--Again back in Camden. As I cross the Delaware in long trips tonight, between 9
and 11, the scene overhead is a peculiar one--swift sheets of flitting vapor-gauze, follow'd
by dense clouds throwing an inky pall on everything. Then a spell of that transparent steel-gray
black sky I have noticed under similar circumstances, on which the moon would beam for a few
moments with calm lustre, throwing down a broad dazzle of highway on the waters; then the mists
careering again. All silently, yet driven as if by the furies they sweep along, sometimes quite
thin, sometimes thicker--a real Ossianic night--amid the whirl, absent or dead friends, the
old, the past, somehow tenderly suggested--while the Gael-strains chant themselves from the
mists--"Be thy soul blest, O Carril! in the midst of thy eddying winds. O that thou wouldst
come to my hall when I am alone by night! And thou dost come, my friend. I hear often thy light
hand on my harp, when it hangs on the distant wall, and the feeble sound touches my ear. Why
dost thou not speak to me in my grief, and tell me when I shall behold my friends? But thou
passest away in thy murmuring blast; the wind whistles through the gray hairs of Ossian."

But most of all, those changes of moon and sheets of hurrying vapor and black clouds, with
the sense of rapid action in weird silence, recall the far-back Erse belief that such above
were the preparations for receiving the wraiths of just-slain warriors--["We sat that night
in Selma, round the strength of the shell. The wind was abroad in the oaks. The spirit of the
mountain roar'd. The blast came rustling through the hall, and gently touch'd my harp. The
sound was mournful and low, like the song of the tomb. Fingal heard it the first. The crowded
sighs of his bosom rose. Some of my heroes are low, said the gray-hair'd king of Morven. I
hear the sound of death on the harp. Ossian, touch the trembling string. Bid the sorrow rise,
that their spirits may fly with joy to Morven's woody hills. I touch'd the harp before the
king; the sound was mournful and low. Bend forward from your clouds, I said, ghosts of my fathers!
bend. Lay by the red terror of your course. Receive the falling chief; whether he comes from
a distant land, or rises from the rolling sea. Let his robe of mist be near; his spear that
is form'd of a cloud. Place a half-extinguish'd meteor by his side, in the form of a hero's
sword. And oh! let his countenance be lovely, that his friends may delight in his presence.
Bend from your clouds, I said, ghosts of my fathers, bend. Such was my song in Selma, to the
lightly trembling harp."]

How or why I know not, just at the moment, but I too muse and think of my best friends in their
distant homes--of William O'Connor, of Maurice Bucke, of John Burroughs, and of Mrs. Gilchrist--friends
of my soul--stanchest friends of my other soul, my poems.

ONLY A NEW FERRY-BOAT

Jan. 12, '82.--Such a show as the Delaware presented an hour before sundown yesterday evening,
all along between Philadelphia and Camden, is worth weaving into an item. It was full tide,
a fair breeze from the southwest, the water of a pale tawny color, and just enough motion to
make things frolicsome and lively. Add to these an approaching sunset of unusual splendor,
a broad tumble of clouds, with much golden haze and profusion of beaming shaft and dazzle.
In the midst of all, in the clear drab of the afternoon light, there steam'd up the river the
large, new boat, "the Wenonah," as pretty an object as you could wish to see, lightly and swiftly
skimming along, all trim and white, cover'd with flags, transparent red and blue, streaming
out in the breeze. Only a new ferry-boat, and yet in its fitness comparable with the prettiest
product of Nature's cunning, and rivaling it. High up in the transparent ether gracefully balanced
and circled four or five great sea hawks, while here below, amid the pomp and picturesqueness
of sky and river, swam this creation of artificial beauty and motion and power, in its way
no less perfect.

DEATH OF LONGFELLOW

Camden, April, '82.--I have just return'd from an old forest haunt, where I love to go occasionally
away from parlors, pavements, and the newspapers and magazines--and where, of a clear forenoon,
deep in the shade of pines and cedars and a tangle of old laurel-trees and vines, the news
of Longfellow's death first reach'd me. For want of anything better, let me lightly twine a
sprig of the sweet ground-ivy trailing so plentifully through the dead leaves at my feet, with
reflections of that half hour alone, there in the silence, and lay it as my contribution on
the dead bard's grave.

Longfellow in his voluminous works seems to me not only to be eminent in the style and forms
of poetical expression that mark the present age, (an idiosyncrasy, almost a sickness, of verbal
melody,) but to bring what is always dearest as poetry to the general human heart and taste,
and probably must be so in the nature of things. He is certainly the sort of bard and counteractant
most needed for our materialistic, self-assertive, money-worshipping, Anglo-Saxon races, and
especially for the present age in America--an age tyrannically regulated with reference to
the manufacturer, the merchant, the financier, the politician and the day workman--for whom
and among whom he comes as the poet of melody, courtesy, deference--poet of the mellow twilight
of the past in Italy, Germany, Spain, and in Northern Europe--poet of all sympathetic gentleness--and
universal poet of women and young people. I should have to think long if I were ask'd to name
the man who has done more, and in more valuable directions, for America.

I doubt if there ever was before such a fine intuitive judge and selecter of poems. His translations
of many German and Scandinavian pieces are said to be better than the vernaculars. He does
not urge or lash. His influence is like good drink or air. He is not tepid either, but always
vital, with flavor, motion, grace. He strikes a splendid average, and does not sing exceptional
passions, or humanity's jagged escapades. He is not revolutionary, brings nothing offensive
or new, does not deal hard blows. On the contrary, his songs soothe and heal, or if they excite,
it is a healthy and agreeable excitement. His very anger is gentle, is at second hand, (as
in the "Quadroon Girl" and the "Witnesses.")

There is no undue element of pensiveness in Longfellow's strains. Even in the early translation,
the Manrique, the movement is as of strong and steady wind or tide, holding up and buoying.
Death is not avoided through his many themes, but there is something almost winning in his
original verses and renderings on that dread subject--as, closing "the Happiest Land" dispute,

    And then the landlord's daughter
      Up to heaven rais'd her hand,
    And said, "Ye may no more contend,
      There lies the happiest land."

To the ungracious complaint-charge of his want of racy nativity and special originality, I
shall only say that America and the world may well be reverently thankful--can never be thankful
enough--for any such singing-bird vouchsafed out of the centuries, without asking that the
notes be different from those of other songsters; adding what I have heard Longfellow himself
say, that ere the New World can be worthily original, and announce herself and her own heroes,
she must be well saturated with the originality of others, and respectfully consider the heroes
that lived before Agamemnon.

STARTING NEWSPAPERS

Reminiscences (From the "Camden Courier"). As I sat taking my evening sail across the Delaware
in the staunch ferry-boat "Beverly," a night or two ago, I was join'd by two young reporter
friends. "I have a message for you," said one of them; "the C. folks told me to say they would
like a piece sign'd by your name, to go in their first number. Can you do it for them?" "I
guess so," said I; "what might it be about?" "Well, anything on newspapers, or perhaps what
you've done yourself, starting them." And off the boys went, for we had reach'd the Philadelphia
side. The hour was fine and mild, the bright half-moon shining; Venus, with excess of splendor,
just setting in the west, and the great Scorpion rearing its length more than half up in the
southeast. As I cross'd leisurely for an hour in the pleasant night-scene, my young friend's
words brought up quite a string of reminiscences.

I commenced when I was but a boy of eleven or twelve writing sentimental bits for the old "Long
Island Patriot," in Brooklyn; this was about 1832. Soon after, I had a piece or two in George
P. Morris's then celebrated and fashionable "Mirror," of New York city. I remember with what
half-suppress'd excitement I used to watch for the big, fat, red-faced, slow-moving, very old
English carrier who distributed the "Mirror" in Brooklyn; and when I got one, opening and cutting
the leaves with trembling fingers. How it made my heart double-beat to see my piece on the
pretty white paper, in nice type.

My first real venture was the "Long Islander," in my own beautiful town of Huntington, in 1839.
I was about twenty years old. I had been teaching country school for two or three years in
various parts of Suffolk and Queens counties, but liked printing; had been at it while a lad,
learn'd the trade of compositor, and was encouraged to start a paper in the region where I
was born. I went to New York, bought a press and types, hired some little help, but did most
of the work myself, including the press-work. Everything seem'd turning out well; (only my
own restlessness prevented me gradually establishing a permanent property there.) I bought
a good horse, and every week went all round the country serving my papers, devoting one day
and night to it. I never had happier jaunts--going over to south side, to Babylon, down the
south road, across to Smithtown and Comac, and back home. The experiences of those jaunts,
the dear old-fashion'd farmers and their wives, the stops by the hay-fields, the hospitality,
nice dinners, occasional evenings, the girls, the rides through the brush, come up in my memory
to this day.

I next went to the "Aurora" daily in New York city--a sort of free lance. Also wrote regularly
for the "Tattler," an evening paper. With these and a little outside work I was occupied off
and on, until I went to edit the "Brooklyn Eagle," where for two years I had one of the pleasantest
sits of my life--a good owner, good pay, and easy work and hours. The troubles in the Democratic
party broke forth about those times (1848-'49) and I split off with the radicals, which led
to rows with the boss and "the party," and I lost my place.

Being now out of a job, I was offer'd impromptu, (it happen'd between the acts one night in
the lobby of the old Broadway theatre near Pearl street, New York city,) a good chance to go
down to New Orleans on the staff of the "Crescent," a daily to be started there with plenty
of capital behind it. One of the owners, who was north buying material, met me walking in the
lobby, and though that was our first acquaintance, after fifteen minutes' talk (and a drink)
we made a formal bargain, and he paid me two hundred dollars down to bind the contract and
bear my expenses to New Orleans. I started two days afterwards; had a good leisurely time,
as the paper wasn't to be out in three weeks. I enjoy'd my journey and Louisiana life much.
Returning to Brooklyn a year or two afterward I started the "Freeman," first as a weekly, then
daily. Pretty soon the secession war broke out, and I, too, got drawn in the current southward,
and spent the following three years there, (as memorandized preceding.)

Besides starting them as aforementioned, I have had to do, one time or another, during my life,
with a long list of papers, at divers places, sometimes under queer circumstances. During the
war, the hospitals at Washington, among other means of amusement, printed a little sheet among
themselves, surrounded by wounds and death, the "Armory Square Gazette," to which I contributed.
The same long afterward, casually, to a paper--I think it was call'd the "Jimplecute"--out
in Colorado where I stopp'd at the time. When I was in Quebec province, in Canada, in 1880,
I went into the queerest little old French printing-office near Tadousac. It was far more primitive
and ancient than my Camden friend William Kurtz's place up on Federal street. I remember, as
a youngster, several characteristic old printers of a kind hard to be seen these days.

THE GREAT UNREST OF WHICH WE ARE PART

My thoughts went floating on vast and mystic currents as I sat to-day in solitude and half-shade
by the creek--returning mainly to two principal centres. One of my cherish'd themes for a never-achiev'd
poem has been the two impetuses of man and the universe--in the latter, creation's incessant
unrest,[19] exfoliation, (Darwin's evolution, I suppose.) Indeed, what is Nature but change,
in all its visible, and still more its invisible processes? Or what is humanity in its faith,
love, heroism, poetry, even morals, but emotion?

Note:

[19] "Fifty thousand years ago the constellation of the Great Bear or Dipper was a starry cross;
a hundred thousand years hence the imaginary Dipper will be upside down, and the stars which
form the bowl and handle will have changed places. The misty nebulae are moving, and besides
are whirling around in great spirals, some one way, some another. Every molecule of matter
in the whole universe is swinging to and fro; every particle of ether which fills space is
in jelly-like vibration. Light is one kind of motion, heat another, electricity another, magnetism
another, sound another. Every human sense is the result of motion; every perception, every
thought is but motion of the molecules of the brain translated by that incomprehensible thing
we call mind. The processes of growth, of existence, of decay, whether in worlds, or in the
minutest organisms, are but motion."

BY EMERSON'S GRAVE

May 6, '82.--We stand by Emerson's new-made grave without sadness--indeed a solemn joy and
faith, almost hauteur--our soul-benison no mere

    "Warrior, rest, thy task is done,"

for one beyond the warriors of the world lies surely symboll'd here. A just man, poised on
himself, all-loving, all-inclosing, and sane and clear as the sun. Nor does it seem so much
Emerson himself we are here to honor--it is conscience, simplicity, culture, humanity's attributes
at their best, yet applicable if need be to average affairs, and eligible to all. So used are
we to suppose a heroic death can only come from out of battle or storm, or mighty personal
contest, or amid dramatic incidents or danger, (have we not been taught so for ages by all
the plays and poems?) that few even of those who most sympathizingly mourn Emerson's late departure
will fully appreciate the ripen'd grandeur of that event, with its play of calm and fitness,
like evening light on the sea.

How I shall henceforth dwell on the blessed hours when, not long since, I saw that benignant
face, the clear eyes, the silently smiling mouth, the form yet upright in its great age--to
the very last, with so much spring and cheeriness, and such an absence of decrepitude, that
even the term venerable hardly seem'd fitting.

Perhaps the life now rounded and completed in its mortal development, and which nothing can
change or harm more, has its most illustrious halo, not in its splendid intellectual or esthetic
products, but as forming in its entirety one of the few (alas! how few!) perfect and flawless
excuses for being, of the entire literary class.

We can say, as Abraham Lincoln at Gettysburg, It is not we who come to consecrate the dead--we
reverently come to receive, if so it may be, some consecration to ourselves and daily work
from him.

AT PRESENT WRITING--PERSONAL

A letter to a German friend--extract

May 31, '82.--"From to-day I enter upon my 64th year. The paralysis that first affected me
nearly ten years ago, has since remain'd, with varying course--seems to have settled quietly
down, and will probably continue. I easily tire, am very clumsy, cannot walk far; but my spirits
are first-rate. I go around in public almost every day--now and then take long trips, by railroad
or boat, hundreds of miles--live largely in the open air--am sunburnt and stout, (weigh 190)--keep
up my activity and interest in life, people, progress, and the questions of the day. About
two-thirds of the time I am quite comfortable. What mentality I ever had remains entirely unaffected;
though physically I am a half-paralytic, and likely to be so, long as I live. But the principal
object of my life seems to have been accomplish'd--I have the most devoted and ardent of friends,
and affectionate relatives--and of enemies I really make no account."

AFTER TRYING A CERTAIN BOOK

I tried to read a beautifully printed and scholarly volume on "the Theory of Poetry," received
by mail this morning from England--but gave it up at last for a bad job. Here are some capricious
pencillings that follow'd, as I find them in my notes:

In youth and maturity Poems are charged with sunshine and varied pomp of day; but as the soul
more and more takes precedence, (the sensuous still included,) the Dusk becomes the poet's
atmosphere. I too have sought, and ever seek, the brilliant sun, and make my songs according.
But as I grow old, the half-lights of evening are far more to me.

The play of Imagination, with the sensuous objects of Nature for symbols and Faith--with Love
and Pride as the unseen impetus and moving-power of all, make up the curious chess-game of a poem.

Common teachers or critics are always asking "What does it mean?" Symphony of fine musician,
or sunset, or sea-waves rolling up the beach--what do they mean? Undoubtedly in the most subtle-elusive
sense they mean something--as love does, and religion does, and the best poem;--but who shall
fathom and define those meanings? (I do not intend this as a warrant for wildness and frantic
escapades--but to justify the soul's frequent joy in what cannot be defined to the intellectual
part, or to calculation.)

At its best, poetic lore is like what may be heard of conversation in the dusk, from speakers
far or hid, of which we get only a few broken murmurs. What is not gather'd is far more--perhaps
the main thing.

Grandest poetic passages are only to be taken at free removes, as we sometimes look for stars
at night, not by gazing directly toward them, but off one side.

(To a poetic student and friend.)--I only seek to put you in rapport. Your own brain, heart,
evolution, must not only understand the matter, but largely supply it.

FINAL CONFESSIONS--LITERARY TESTS

So draw near their end these garrulous notes. There have doubtless occurr'd some repetitions,
technical errors in the consecutiveness of dates, in the minutiae of botanical, astronomical,
&c., exactness, and perhaps elsewhere;--for in gathering up, writing, peremptorily dispatching
copy, this hot weather, (last of July and through August, '82,) and delaying not the printers,
I have had to hurry along, no time to spare. But in the deepest veracity of all--in reflections
of objects, scenes, Nature's outpourings, to my senses and receptivity, as they seem'd to me--in
the work of giving those who care for it, some authentic glints, specimen-days of my life--and
in the bona fide spirit and relations, from author to reader, on all the subjects design'd,
and as far as they go, I feel to make unmitigated claims.

The synopsis of my early life, Long Island, New York city, and so forth, and the diary-jottings
in the Secession war, tell their own story. My plan in starting what constitutes most of the
middle of the book, was originally for hints and data of a Nature-poem that should carry one's
experiences a few hours, commencing at noon-flush, and so through the after-part of the day--I
suppose led to such idea by my own life-afternoon now arrived. But I soon found I could move
at more ease, by giving the narrative at first hand. (Then there is a humiliating lesson one
learns, in serene hours, of a fine day or night. Nature seems to look on all fixed-up poetry
and art as something almost impertinent.)

Thus I went on, years following, various seasons and areas, spinning forth my thought beneath
the night and stars, (or as I was confined to my room by half-sickness,) or at midday looking
out upon the sea, or far north steaming over the Saguenay's black breast, jotting all down
in the loosest sort of chronological order, and here printing from my impromptu notes, hardly
even the seasons group'd together, or anything corrected--so afraid of dropping what smack
of outdoors or sun or starlight might cling to the lines, I dared not try to meddle with or
smooth them. Every now and then, (not often, but for a foil,) I carried a book in my pocket--or
perhaps tore out from some broken or cheap edition a bunch of loose leaves; most always had
something of the sort ready, but only took it out when the mood demanded. In that way, utterly
out of reach of literary conventions, I re-read many authors.

I cannot divest my appetite of literature, yet I find myself eventually trying it all by Nature--first
premises many call it, but really the crowning results of all, laws, tallies and proofs. (Has
it never occur'd to any one how the last deciding tests applicable to a book are entirely outside
of technical and grammatical ones, and that any truly first-class production has little or
nothing to do with the rules and calibres of ordinary critics? or the bloodless chalk of Allibone's
Dictionary? I have fancied the ocean and the daylight, the mountain and the forest, putting
their spirit in a judgment on our books. I have fancied some disembodied human soul giving
its verdict.)

NATURE AND DEMOCRACY--MORALITY

Democracy most of all affiliates with the open air, is sunny and hardy and sane only with Nature--just
as much as Art is. Something is required to temper both--to check them, restrain them from
excess, morbidity. I have wanted, before departure, to bear special testimony to a very old
lesson and requisite. American Democracy, in its myriad personalities, in factories, work-shops,
stores, offices--through the dense streets and houses of cities, and all their manifold sophisticated
life--must either be fibred, vitalized, by regular contact with out-door light and air and
growths, farm-scenes, animals, fields, trees, birds, sun-warmth and free skies, or it will
certainly dwindle and pale. We cannot have grand races of mechanics, work people, and commonalty,
(the only specific purpose of America,) on any less terms. I conceive of no flourishing and
heroic elements of Democracy in the United States, or of Democracy maintaining itself at all,
without the Nature-element forming a main part--to be its health-element and beauty-element--to
really underlie the whole politics, sanity, religion and art of the New World.

Finally, the morality: "Virtue," said Marcus Aurelius, "what is it, only a living and enthusiastic
sympathy with Nature?" Perhaps indeed the efforts of the true poets, founders, religions, literatures,
all ages, have been, and ever will be, our time and times to come, essentially the same--to
bring people back from their persistent strayings and sickly abstractions, to the costless
average, divine, original concrete.

COLLECT

ONE OR TWO INDEX ITEMS

Though the ensuing COLLECT and preceding SPECIMEN DAYS are both largely from memoranda already
existing, the hurried peremptory needs of copy for the printers, already referr'd to--(the
musicians' story of a composer up in a garret rushing the middle body and last of his score
together, while the fiddlers are playing the first parts down in the concert-room)--of this
haste, while quite willing to get the consequent stimulus of life and motion, I am sure there
must have resulted sundry technical errors. If any are too glaring they will be corrected in
a future edition.

A special word about PIECES IN EARLY YOUTH at the end. On jaunts over Long Island, as boy and
young fellow, nearly half a century ago, I heard of, or came across in my own experience, characters,
true occurrences, incidents, which I tried my 'prentice hand at recording--(I was then quite
an "abolitionist" and advocate of the "temperance" and "anti-capital-punishment" causes)--and
publish'd during occasional visits to New York city. A majority of the sketches appear'd first
in the "Democratic Review," others in the "Columbian Magazine," or the "American Review," of
that period. My serious wish were to have all those crude and boyish pieces quietly dropp'd
in oblivion--but to avoid the annoyance of their surreptitious issue, (as lately announced,
from outsiders,) I have, with some qualms, tack'd them on here. A Dough-Face Song came out
first in the "Evening Post"--Blood-Money, and Wounded in the House of Friends, in the "Tribune."

Poetry To-day in America, &c., first appear'd (under the name of "The Poetry of the Future,")
in "The North American Review" for February, 1881. A Memorandum at a Venture, in same periodical,
some time afterward.

Several of the convalescent out-door scenes and literary items, preceding, originally appear'd
in the fortnightly "Critic," of New York.

DEMOCRATIC VISTAS

As the greatest lessons of Nature through the universe are perhaps the lessons of variety and
freedom, the same present the greatest lessons also in New World politics and progress. If
a man were ask'd, for instance, the distinctive points contrasting modern European and American
political and other life with the old Asiatic cultus, as lingering-bequeath'd yet in China
and Turkey, he might find the amount of them in John Stuart Mill's profound essay on Liberty
in the future, where he demands two main constituents, or sub-strata, for a truly grand nationality--1st,
a large variety of character--and 2d, full play for human nature to expand itself in numberless
and even conflicting directions--(seems to be for general humanity much like the influences
that make up, in their limitless field, that perennial health-action of the air we call the
weather--an infinite number of currents and forces, and contributions, and temperatures, and
cross-purposes, whose ceaseless play of counterpart upon counterpart brings constant restoration
and vitality.) With this thought--and not for itself alone, but all it necessitates, and draws
after it--let me begin my speculations.

America, filling the present with greatest deeds and problems, cheerfully accepting the past,
including feudalism, (as, indeed, the present is but the legitimate birth of the past, including
feudalism,) counts, as I reckon, for her justification and success, (for who, as yet, dare
claim success?) almost entirely on the future. Nor is that hope unwarranted. To-day, ahead,
though dimly yet, we see, in vistas, a copious, sane, gigantic offspring. For our New World
I consider far less important for what it has done, or what it is, than for results to come.
Sole among nationalities, these States have assumed the task to put in forms of lasting power
and practicality, on areas of amplitude rivaling the operations of the physical kosmos, the
moral political speculations of ages, long, long deferr'd, the democratic republican principle,
and the theory of development and perfection by voluntary standards, and self-reliance. Who
else, indeed, except the United States, in history, so far, have accepted in unwitting faith,
and, as we now see, stand, act upon, and go security for, these things? But preluding no longer,
let me strike the key-note of the following strain. First premising that, though the passages
of it have been written at widely different times, (it is, in fact, a collection of memoranda,
perhaps for future designers, comprehenders,) and though it may be open to the charge of one
part contradicting another--for there are opposite sides to the great question of democracy,
as to every great question--I feel the parts harmoniously blended in my own realization and
convictions, and present them to be read only in such oneness, each page and each claim and
assertion modified and temper'd by the others. Bear in mind, too, that they are not the result
of studying up in political economy, but of the ordinary sense, observing, wandering among
men, these States, these stirring years of war and peace. I will not gloss over the appaling
dangers of universal suffrage in the United States. In fact, it is to admit and face these
dangers I am writing. To him or her within whose thought rages the battle, advancing, retreating,
between democracy's convictions, aspirations, and the people's crudeness, vice, caprices, I
mainly write this essay. I shall use the words America and democracy as convertible terms.
Not an ordinary one is the issue. The United States are destined either to surmount the gorgeous
history of feudalism, or else prove the most tremendous failure of time. Not the least doubtful
am I on any prospects of their material success. The triumphant future of their business, geographic
and productive departments, on larger scales and in more varieties than ever, is certain. In
those respects the republic must soon (if she does not already) outstrip all examples hitherto
afforded, and dominate the world.[20]

Admitting all this, with the priceless value of our political institutions, general suffrage,
(and fully acknowledging the latest, widest opening of the doors,) I say that, far deeper than
these, what finally and only is to make of our western world a nationality superior to any
hither known, and out-topping the past, must be vigorous, yet unsuspected Literatures, perfect
personalities and sociologies, original, transcendental, and expressing (what, in highest sense,
are not yet express'd at all,) democracy and the modern. With these, and out of these, I promulge
new races of Teachers, and of perfect Women, indispensable to endow the birth-stock of a New
World. For feudalism, caste, the ecclesiastic traditions, though palpably retreating from political
institutions, still hold essentially, by their spirit, even in this country, entire possession
of the more important fields, indeed the very subsoil, of education, and of social standards
and literature.

I say that democracy can never prove itself beyond cavil, until it founds and luxuriantly grows
its own forms of art, poems, schools, theology, displacing all that exists, or that has been
produced anywhere in the past, under opposite influences. It is curious to me that while so
many voices, pens, minds, in the press, lecture-rooms, in our Congress, &c., are discussing
intellectual topics, pecuniary dangers, legislative problems, the suffrage, tariff and labor
questions, and the various business and benevolent needs of America, with propositions, remedies,
often worth deep attention, there is one need, a hiatus the profoundest, that no eye seems
to perceive, no voice to state. Our fundamental want to-day in the United States, with closest,
amplest reference to present conditions, and to the future, is of a class, and the clear idea
of a class, of native authors, literatuses, far different, far higher in grade than any yet
known, sacerdotal, modern, fit to cope with our occasions, lands, permeating the whole mass
of American mentality, taste, belief, breathing into it a new breath of life, giving it decision,
affecting politics far more than the popular superficial suffrage, with results inside and
underneath the elections of Presidents or Congresses--radiating, begetting appropriate teachers,
schools, manners, and, as its grandest result, accomplishing, (what neither the schools nor
the churches and their clergy have hitherto accomplish'd, and without which this nation will
no more stand, permanently, soundly, than a house will stand without a substratum,) a religious
and moral character beneath the political and productive and intellectual bases of the States.
For know you not, dear, earnest reader, that the people of our land may all read and write,
and may all possess the right to vote--and yet the main things may be entirely lacking?--(and
this to suggest them.)

View'd, to-day, from a point of view sufficiently over-arching, the problem of humanity all
over the civilized world is social and religious, and is to be finally met and treated by literature.
The priest departs, the divine literatus comes. Never was anything more wanted than, to-day,
and here in the States, the poet of the modern is wanted, or the great literatus of the modern.
At all times, perhaps, the central point in any nation, and that whence it is itself really
sway'd the most, and whence it sways others, is its national literature, especially its archetypal
poems. Above all previous lands, a great original literature is surely to become the justification
and reliance, (in some respects the sole reliance,) of American democracy.

Few are aware how the great literature penetrates all, gives hue to all, shapes aggregates
and individuals, and, after subtle ways, with irresistible power, constructs, sustains, demolishes
at will. Why tower, in reminiscence, above all the nations of the earth, two special lands,
petty in themselves, yet inexpressibly gigantic, beautiful, columnar? Immortal Judah lives,
and Greece immortal lives, in a couple of poems.

Nearer than this.

In short, as, though it may not be realized, it is strictly true, that a few first-class poets,
philosophs, and authors, have substantially settled and given status to the entire religion,
education, law, sociology, &c., of the hitherto civilized world, by tinging and often creating
the atmospheres out of which they have arisen, such also must stamp, and more than ever stamp,
the interior and real democratic construction of this American continent, to-day, and days
to come. Remember also this fact of difference, that, while through the antique and through
the mediaeval ages, highest thoughts and ideals realized themselves, and their expression made
its way by other arts, as much as, or even more than by, technical literature, (not open to
the mass of persons, or even to the majority of eminent persons,) such literature in our day
and for current purposes, is not only more eligible than all the other arts put together, but
has become the only general means of morally influencing the world. Painting, sculpture, and
the dramatic theatre, it would seem, no longer play an indispensable or even important part
in the workings and mediumship of intellect, utility, or even high esthetics. Architecture
remains, doubtless with capacities, and a real future. Then music, the combiner, nothing more
spiritual, nothing more sensuous, a god, yet completely human, advances, prevails, holds highest
place; supplying in certain wants and quarters what nothing else could supply. Yet in the civilization
of to-day it is undeniable that, over all the arts, literature dominates, serves beyond all--shapes
the character of church and school--or, at any rate, is capable of doing so. Including the
literature of science, its scope is indeed unparallel'd.

Before proceeding further, it were perhaps well to discriminate on certain points. Literature
tills its crops in many fields, and some may flourish, while others lag. What I say in these
Vistas has its main bearing on imaginative literature, especially poetry, the stock of all.
In the department of science, and the specialty of journalism, there appear, in these States,
promises, perhaps fulfilments, of highest earnestness, reality, and life, These, of course,
are modern. But in the region of imaginative, spinal and essential attributes, something equivalent
to creation is, for our age and lands, imperatively demanded. For not only is it not enough
that the new blood, new frame of democracy shall be vivified and held together merely by political
means, superficial suffrage, legislation, &c., but it is clear to me that, unless it goes deeper,
gets at least as firm and as warm a hold in men's hearts, emotions and belief, as, in their
days, feudalism or ecclesiasticism, and inaugurates its own perennial sources, welling from
the centre forever, its strength will be defective, its growth doubtful, and its main charm
wanting. I suggest, therefore, the possibility, should some two or three really original American
poets, (perhaps artists or lecturers,) arise, mounting the horizon like planets, stars of the
first magnitude, that, from their eminence, fusing contributions, races, far localities, &c.,
together, they would give more compaction and more moral identity, (the quality to-day most
needed,) to these States, than all its Constitutions, legislative and judicial ties, and all
its hitherto political, warlike, or materialistic experiences. As, for instance, there could
hardly happen anything that would more serve the States, with all their variety of origins,
their diverse climes, cities, standards, &c., than possessing an aggregate of heroes, characters,
exploits, sufferings, prosperity or misfortune, glory or disgrace, common to all, typical of
all--no less, but even greater would it be to possess the aggregation of a cluster of mighty
poets, artists, teachers, fit for us, national expressers, comprehending and effusing for the
men and women of the States, what is universal, native, common to all, inland and seaboard,
northern and southern. The historians say of ancient Greece, with her ever-jealous autonomies,
cities, and states, that the only positive unity she ever own'd or receiv'd, was the sad unity
of a common subjection, at the last, to foreign conquerors. Subjection, aggregation of that
sort, is impossible to America; but the fear of conflicting and irreconcilable interiors, and
the lack of a common skeleton, knitting all close, continually haunts me. Or, if it does not,
nothing is plainer than the need, a long period to come, of a fusion of the States into the
only reliable identity, the moral and artistic one. For, I say, the true nationality of the
States, the genuine union, when we come to a moral crisis, is, and is to be, after all, neither
the written law, nor, (as is generally supposed,) either self-interest, or common pecuniary
or material objects--but the fervid and tremendous IDEA, melting everything else with resistless
heat, and solving all lesser and definite distinctions in vast, indefinite, spiritual, emotional
power.

It may be claim'd, (and I admit the weight of the claim,) that common and general worldly prosperity,
and a populace well-to-do, and with all life's material comforts, is the main thing, and is
enough. It may be argued that our republic is, in performance, really enacting to-day the grandest
arts, poems, &c., by beating up the wilderness into fertile farms, and in her railroads, ships,
machinery, &c. And it may be ask'd, Are these not better, indeed, for America, than any utterances
even of greatest rhapsode, artist, or literatus?

I too hail those achievements with pride and joy: then answer that the soul of man will not
with such only--nay, not with such at all--be finally satisfied; but needs what, (standing
on these and on all things, as the feet stand on the ground,) is address'd to the loftiest,
to itself alone.

Out of such considerations, such truths, arises for treatment in these Vistas the important
question of character, of an American stock-personality, with literatures and arts for outlets
and return-expressions, and, of course, to correspond, within outlines common to all. To these,
the main affair, the thinkers of the United States, in general so acute, have either given
feeblest attention, or have remain'd, and remain, in a state of somnolence.

For my part, I would alarm and caution even the political and business reader, and to the utmost
extent, against the prevailing delusion that the establishment of free political institutions,
and plentiful intellectual smartness, with general good order, physical plenty, industry, &c.,
(desirable and precious advantages as they all are,) do, of themselves, determine and yield
to our experiment of democracy the fruitage of success. With such advantages at present fully,
or almost fully, possess'd--the Union just issued, victorious, from the struggle with the only
foes it need ever fear, (namely, those within itself, the interior ones,) and with unprecedented
materialistic advancement--society, in these States, is canker'd, crude, superstitious, and
rotten. Political, or law-made society is, and private, or voluntary society, is also. In any
vigor, the element of the moral conscience, the most important, the verteber to State or man,
seems to me either entirely lacking, or seriously enfeebled or ungrown.

I say we had best look our times and lands searchingly in the face, like a physician diagnosing
some deep disease. Never was there, perhaps, more hollowness at heart than at present, and
here in the United States. Genuine belief seems to have left us. The underlying principles
of the States are not honestly believ'd in, (for all this hectic glow, and these melo-dramatic
screamings,) nor is humanity itself believ'd in. What penetrating eye does not everywhere see
through the mask? The spectacle is appaling. We live in an atmosphere of hypocrisy throughout.
The men believe not in the women, nor the women in the men. A scornful superciliousness rules
in literature. The aim of all the litterateurs is to find something to make fun of. A lot of
churches, sects, &c., the most dismal phantasms I know, usurp the name of religion. Conversation
is a mass of badinage. From deceit in the spirit, the mother of all false deeds, the offspring
is already incalculable. An acute and candid person, in the revenue department in Washington,
who is led by the course of his employment to regularly visit the cities, north, south and
west, to investigate frauds, has talk'd much with me about his discoveries. The depravity of
the business classes of our country is not less than has been supposed, but infinitely greater.
The official services of America, national, state, and municipal, in all their branches and
departments, except the judiciary, are saturated in corruption, bribery, falsehood, mal-administration;
and the judiciary is tainted. The great cities reek with respectable as much as non-respectable
robbery and scoundrelism. In fashionable life, flippancy, tepid amours, weak infidelism, small
aims, or no aims at all, only to kill time. In business, (this all-devouring modern word, business,)
the one sole object is, by any means, pecuniary gain. The magician's serpent in the fable ate
up all the other serpents; and money-making is our magician's serpent, remaining today sole
master of the field. The best class we show, is but a mob of fashionably dress'd speculators
and vulgarians. True, indeed, behind this fantastic farce, enacted on the visible stage of
society, solid things and stupendous labors are to be discover'd, existing crudely and going
on in the background, to advance and tell themselves in time. Yet the truths are none the less
terrible. I say that our New World democracy, however great a success in uplifting the masses
out of their sloughs, in materialistic development, products, and in a certain highly-deceptive
superficial popular intellectuality, is, so far, an almost complete failure in its social aspects,
and in really grand religious, moral, literary, and esthetic results. In vain do we march with
unprecedented strides to empire so colossal, outvying the antique, beyond Alexander's, beyond
the proudest sway of Rome. In vain have we annex'd Texas, California, Alaska, and reach north
for Canada and south for Cuba. It is as if we were somehow being endow'd with a vast and more
and more thoroughly-appointed body, and then left with little or no soul.

Let me illustrate further, as I write, with current observations, localities, &c. The subject
is important, and will bear repetition. After an absence, I am now again (September, 1870)
in New York city and Brooklyn, on a few weeks' vacation. The splendor, picturesqueness, and
oceanic amplitude and rush of these great cities, the unsurpass'd situation, rivers and bay,
sparkling sea-tides, costly and lofty new buildings, facades of marble and iron, of original
grandeur and elegance of design, with the masses of gay color, the preponderance of white and
blue, the flags flying, the endless ships, the tumultuous streets, Broadway, the heavy, low,
musical roar, hardly ever intermitted, even at night; the jobbers' houses, the rich shops,
the wharves, the great Central Park, and the Brooklyn Park of hills, (as I wander among them
this beautiful fall weather, musing, watching, absorbing)--the assemblages of the citizens
in their groups, conversations, trades, evening amusements, or along the by-quarters--these,
I say, and the like of these, completely satisfy my senses of power, fulness, motion, &c.,
and give me, through such senses and appetites, and through my esthetic conscience, a continued
exaltation and absolute fulfilment. Always and more and more, as I cross the East and North
rivers, the ferries, or with the pilots in their pilot-houses, or pass an hour in Wall street,
or the gold exchange, I realize, (if we must admit such partialisms,) that not Nature alone
is great in her fields of freedom and the open air, in her storms, the shows of night and day,
the mountains, forests, seas--but in the artificial, the work of man too is equally great--in
this profusion of teeming humanity--in these ingenuities, streets, goods, houses, ships--these
hurrying, feverish, electric crowds of men, their complicated business genius, (not least among
the geniuses,) and all this mighty, many-threaded wealth and industry concentrated here.

But sternly discarding, shutting our eyes to the glow and grandeur of the general superficial
effect, coming down to what is of the only real importance, Personalities, and examining minutely,
we question, we ask, Are there, indeed, men here worthy the name? Are there athletes? Are there
perfect women, to match the generous material luxuriance? Is there a pervading atmosphere of
beautiful manners? Are there crops of fine youths, and majestic old persons? Confess that to
severe eyes, using the moral microscope upon humanity, a sort of dry and flat Sahara appears,
these cities, crowded with petty grotesques, malformations, phantoms, playing meaningless antics.

Confess that everywhere, in shop, street, church, theatre, bar-room, official chair, are pervading
flippancy and vulgarity, low cunning, infidelity--everywhere the youth puny, impudent, foppish,
prematurely ripe--everywhere an abnormal libidinousness, unhealthy forms, male, female, painted,
padded, dyed, chignon'd, muddy complexions, bad blood, the capacity for good motherhood deceasing
or deceas'd, shallow notions of beauty, with a range of manners, or rather lack of manners,
(considering the advantages enjoy'd,) probably the meanest to be seen in the world.[22]

Of all this, and these lamentable conditions, to breathe into them the breath recuperative
of sane and heroic life, I say a new founded literature, not merely to copy and reflect existing
surfaces, or pander to what is called taste--not only to amuse, pass away time, celebrate the
beautiful, the refined, the past, or exhibit technical, rhythmic, or grammatical dexterity--but
a literature underlying life, religious, consistent with science, handling the elements and
forces with competent power, teaching and training men--and, as perhaps the most precious of
its results, achieving the entire redemption of woman out of these incredible holds and webs
of silliness, millinery, and every kind of dyspeptic depletion--and thus insuring to the States
a strong and sweet Female Race, a race of perfect Mothers--is what is needed.

And now, in the full conception of these facts and points, and all that they infer, pro and
con--with yet unshaken faith in the elements of the American masses, the composites, of both
sexes, and even consider'd as individuals--and ever recognizing in them the broadest bases
of the best literary and esthetic appreciation--I proceed with my speculations, Vistas.

First, let us see what we can make out of a brief, general, sentimental consideration of political
democracy, and whence it has arisen, with regard to some of its current features, as an aggregate,
and as the basic structure of our future literature and authorship. We shall, it is true, quickly
and continually find the origin-idea of the singleness of man, individualism, asserting itself,
and cropping forth, even from the opposite ideas. But the mass, or lump character, for imperative
reasons, is to be ever carefully weigh'd, borne in mind, and provided for. Only from it, and
from its proper regulation and potency, comes the other, comes the chance of individualism.
The two are contradictory, but our task is to reconcile them.[23]

The political history of the past may be summ'd up as having grown out of what underlies the
words, order, safety, caste, and especially out of the need of some prompt deciding authority,
and of cohesion at all cost. Leaping time, we come to the period within the memory of people
now living, when, as from some lair where they had slumber'd long, accumulating wrath, sprang
up and are yet active, (1790, and on eyen to the present, 1870,) those noisy eructations, destructive
iconoclasms, a fierce sense of wrongs, amid which moves the form, well known in modern history,
in the old world, stain'd with much blood, and mark'd by savage reactionary clamors and demands.
These bear, mostly, as on one inclosing point of need.

For after the rest is said--after the many time-honor'd and really true things for subordination,
experience, rights of property, &c., have been listen'd to and acquiesced in--after the valuable
and well-settled statement of our duties and relations in society is thoroughly conn'd over
and exhausted--it remains to bring forward and modify everything else with the idea of that
Something a man is, (last precious consolation of the drudging poor,) standing apart from all
else, divine in his own right, and a woman in hers, sole and untouchable by any canons of authority,
or any rule derived from precedent, state-safety, the acts of legislatures, or even from what
is called religion, modesty, or art. The radiation of this truth is the key of the most significant
doings of our immediately preceding three centuries, and has been the political genesis and
life of America. Advancing visibly, it still more advances invisibly. Underneath the fluctuations
of the expressions of society, as well as the movements of the politics of the leading nations
of the world, we see steadily pressing ahead and strengthening itself, even in the midst of
immense tendencies toward aggregation, this image of completeness in separatism, of individual
personal dignity, of a single person, either male or female, characterized in the main, not
from extrinsic acquirements or position, but in the pride of himself or herself alone; and,
as an eventual conclusion and summing up, (or else the entire scheme of things is aimless,
a cheat, a crash,) the simple idea that the last, best dependence is to be upon humanity itself,
and its own inherent, normal, fullgrown qualities, without any superstitious support whatever.
This idea of perfect individualism it is indeed that deepest tinges and gives character to
the idea of the aggregate. For it is mainly or altogether to serve independent separatism that
we favor a strong generalization, consolidation. As it is to give the best vitality and freedom
to the rights of the States, (every bit as important as the right of nationality, the union,)
that we insist on the identity of the Union at all hazards.

The purpose of democracy--supplanting old belief in the necessary absoluteness of establish'd
dynastic rulership, temporal, ecclesiastical, and scholastic, as furnishing the only security
against chaos, crime, and ignorance--is, through many transmigrations, and amid endless ridicules,
arguments, and ostensible failures, to illustrate, at all hazards, this doctrine or theory
that man, properly train'd in sanest, highest freedom, may and must become a law, and series
of laws, unto himself, surrounding and providing for, not only his own personal control, but
all his relations to other individuals, and to the State; and that, while other theories, as
in the past histories of nations, have proved wise enough, and indispensable perhaps for their
conditions, this, as matters now stand in our civilized world, is the only scheme worth working
from, as warranting results like those of Nature's laws, reliable, when once establish'd, to
carry on themselves.

The argument of the matter is extensive, and, we admit, by no means all on one side. What we
shall offer will be far, far from sufficient. But while leaving unsaid much that should properly
even prepare the way for the treatment of this many-sided question of political liberty, equality,
or republicanism--leaving the whole history and consideration of the feudal plan and its products,
embodying humanity, its politics and civilization, through the retrospect of past time, (which
plan and products, indeed, make up all of the past, and a large part of the present)--leaving
unanswer'd, at least by any specific and local answer, many a well-wrought argument and instance,
and many a conscientious declamatory cry and warning--as, very lately, from an eminent and
venerable person abroad[24]--things, problems, full of doubt, dread, suspense, (not new to
me, but old occupiers of many an anxious hour in city's din, or night's silence,) we still
may give a page or so, whose drift is opportune. Time alone can finally answer these things.
But as a substitute in passing, let us, even if fragmentarily, throw forth a short direct or
indirect suggestion of the premises of that other plan, in the new spirit, under the new forms,
started here in our America.

As to the political section of Democracy, which introduces and breaks ground for further and
vaster sections, few probably are the minds, even in these republican States, that fully comprehend
the aptness of that phrase, "THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE, BY THE PEOPLE, FOR THE PEOPLE,"
which we inherit from the lips of Abraham Lincoln; a formula whose verbal shape is homely wit,
but whose scope includes both the totality and all minutiae of the lesson.

The People! Like our huge earth itself, which, to ordinary scansion, is full of vulgar contradictions
and offence, man, viewed in the lump, displeases, and is a constant puzzle and affront to the
merely educated classes. The rare, cosmical, artist-mind, lit with the Infinite, alone confronts
his manifold and oceanic qualities--but taste, intelligence and culture, (so-called,) have
been against the masses, and remain so. There is plenty of glamour about the most damnable
crimes and hoggish meannesses, special and general, of the feudal and dynastic world over there,
with its personnel of lords and queens and courts, so well-dress'd and so handsome. But the
People are ungrammatical, untidy, and their sins gaunt and ill-bred.

Literature, strictly consider'd, has never recognized the People, and, whatever may be said,
does not to-day. Speaking generally, the tendencies of literature, as hitherto pursued, have
been to make mostly critical and querulous men. It seems as if, so far, there were some natural
repugnance between a literary and professional life, and the rude rank spirit of the democracies.
There is, in later literature, a treatment of benevolence, a charity business, rife enough
it is true; but I know nothing more rare, even in this country, than a fit scientific estimate
and reverent appreciation of the People--of their measureless wealth of latent power and capacity,
their vast, artistic contrasts of lights and shades--with, in America, their entire reliability
in emergencies, and a certain breadth of historic grandeur, of peace or war, far surpassing
all the vaunted samples of book-heroes, or any haut ton coteries, in all the records of the world.

The movements of the late secession war, and their results, to any sense that studies well
and comprehends them, show that popular democracy, whatever its faults and dangers, practically
justifies itself beyond the proudest claims and wildest hopes of its enthusiasts. Probably
no future age can know, but I well know, how the gist of this fiercest and most resolute of
the world's war-like contentions resided exclusively in the unnamed, unknown rank and file;
and how the brunt of its labor of death was, to all essential purposes, volunteer'd. The People,
of their own choice, fighting, dying for their own idea, insolently attack'd by the secession-slave-power,
and its very existence imperil'd. Descending to detail, entering any of the armies, and mixing
with the private soldiers, we see and have seen august spectacles. We have seen the alacrity
with which the American-born populace, the peaceablest and most good-natured race in the world,
and the most personally independent and intelligent, and the least fitted to submit to the
irksomeness and exasperation of regimental discipline, sprang, at the first tap of the drum,
to arms--not for gain, nor even glory, nor to repel invasion--but for an emblem, a mere abstraction--for
the life, the safety of the flag. We have seen the unequal'd docility and obedience of these
soldiers. We have seen them tried long and long by hopelessness, mismanagement, and by defeat;
have seen the incredible slaughter toward or through which the armies (as at first Fredericksburg,
and afterward at the Wilderness,) still unhesitatingly obey'd orders to advance. We have seen
them in trench, or crouching behind breastwork, or tramping in deep mud, or amid pouring rain
or thick-falling snow, or under forced marches in hottest summer (as on the road to get to
Gettysburg)--vast suffocating swarms, divisions, corps, with every single man so grimed and
black with sweat and dust, his own mother would not have known him--his clothes all dirty,
stain'd and torn, with sour, accumulated sweat for perfume--many a comrade, perhaps a brother,
sun-struck, staggering out, dying, by the roadside, of exhaustion--yet the great bulk bearing
steadily on, cheery enough, hollow-bellied from hunger, but sinewy with unconquerable resolution.

We have seen this race proved by wholesale by drearier, yet more fearful tests--the wound,
the amputation, the shatter'd face or limb, the slow hot fever, long impatient anchorage in
bed, and all the forms of maiming, operation and disease. Alas! America have we seen, though
only in her early youth, already to hospital brought. There have we watch'd these soldiers,
many of them only boys in years--mark'd their decorum, their religious nature and fortitude,
and their sweet affection. Wholesale, truly. For at the front, and through the camps, in countless
tents, stood the regimental, brigade and division hospitals; while everywhere amid the land,
in or near cities, rose clusters of huge, white-wash'd, crowded, one-story wooden barracks;
and there ruled agony with bitter scourge, yet seldom brought a cry; and there stalk'd death
by day and night along the narrow aisles between the rows of cots, or by the blankets on the
ground, and touch'd lightly many a poor sufferer, often with blessed, welcome touch.

I know not whether I shall be understood, but I realize that it is finally from what I learn'd
personally mixing in such scenes that I am now penning these pages. One night in the gloomiest
period of the war, in the Patent-office hospital in Washington city, as I stood by the bedside
of a Pennsylvania soldier, who lay, conscious of quick approaching death, yet perfectly calm,
and with noble, spiritual manner, the veteran surgeon, turning aside, said to me, that though
he had witness'd many, many deaths of soldiers, and had been a worker at Bull Run, Antietam,
Fredericksburg, &c., he had not seen yet the first case of man or boy that met the approach
of dissolution with cowardly qualms or terror. My own observation fully bears out the remark.

What have we here, if not, towering above all talk and argument, the plentifully-supplied,
last-needed proof of democracy, in its personalities? Curiously enough, too, the proof on this
point comes, I should say, every bit as much from the south, as from the north. Although I
have spoken only of the latter, yet I deliberately include all. Grand, common stock! to me
the accomplish'd and convincing growth, prophetic of the future; proof undeniable to sharpest
sense, of perfect beauty, tenderness and pluck, that never feudal lord, nor Greek, nor Roman
breed, yet rival'd. Let no tongue ever speak in disparagement of the American races, north
or south, to one who has been through the war in the great army hospitals.

Meantime, general humanity, (for to that we return, as, for our purposes, what it really is,
to bear in mind,) has always, in every department, been full of perverse maleficence, and is
so yet. In downcast hours the soul thinks it always will be--but soon recovers from such sickly
moods. I myself see clearly enough the crude, defective streaks in all the strata of the common
people; the specimens and vast collections of the ignorant, the credulous, the unfit and uncouth,
the incapable, and the very low and poor. The eminent person just mention'd sneeringly asks
whether we expect to elevate and improve a nation's politics by absorbing such morbid collections
and qualities therein. The point is a formidable one, and there will doubtless always be numbers
of solid and reflective citizens who will never get over it. Our answer is general, and is
involved in the scope and letter of this essay. We believe the ulterior object of political
and all other government, (having, of course, provided for the police, the safety of life,
property, and for the basic statute and common law, and their administration, always first
in order,) to be among the rest, not merely to rule, to repress disorder, &c., but to develop,
to open up to cultivation, to encourage the possibilities of all beneficent and manly outcroppage,
and of that aspiration for independence, and the pride and self-respect latent in all characters.
(Or, if there be exceptions, we cannot, fixing our eyes on them alone, make theirs the rule
for all.)

I say the mission of government, henceforth, in civilized lands, is not repression alone, and
not Authority alone, not even of law, nor by that favorite standard of the eminent writer,
the rule of the best men, the born heroes and captains of the race, (as if such ever, or one
time out of a hundred, get into the big places, elective or dynastic)--but higher than the
highest arbitrary rule, to train communities through all their grades, beginning with individuals
and ending there again, to rule themselves. What Christ appear'd for in the moral-spiritual
field for human-kind, namely, that in respect to the absolute soul, there is in the possession
of such by each single individual, something so transcendent, so incapable of gradations, (like
life,) that, to that extent, it places all beings on a common level, utterly regardless of
the distinctions of intellect, virtue, station, or any height or lowliness whatever--is tallied
in like manner, in this other field, by democracy's rule that men, the nation, as a common
aggregate of living identities, affording in each a separate and complete subject for freedom,
worldly thrift and happiness, and for a fair chance for growth, and for protection in citizenship,
&c., must, to the political extent of the suffrage or vote, if no further, be placed, in each
and in the whole, on one broad, primary, universal, common platform.

The purpose is not altogether direct; perhaps it is more indirect. For it is not that democracy
is of exhaustive account, in itself. Perhaps, indeed, it is, (like Nature,) of no account in
itself. It is that, as we see, it is the best, perhaps only, fit and full means, formulater,
general caller-forth, trainer, for the million, not for grand material personalities only,
but for immortal souls. To be a voter with the rest is not so much; and this, like every institute,
will have its imperfections.

But to become an enfranchised man, and now, impediments removed, to stand and start without
humiliation, and equal with the rest; to commence, or have the road clear'd to commence, the
grand experiment of development, whose end, (perhaps requiring several generations,) may be
the forming of a full-grown man or woman--that is something. To ballast the State is also secured,
and in our times is to be secured, in no other way.

We do not, (at any rate I do not,) put it either on the ground that the People, the masses,
even the best of them, are, in their latent or exhibited qualities, essentially sensible and
good--nor on the ground of their rights; but that good or bad, rights or no rights, the democratic
formula is the only safe and preservative one for coming times. We endow the masses with the
suffrage for their own sake, no doubt; then, perhaps still more, from another point of view,
for community's sake. Leaving the rest to the sentimentalists, we present freedom as sufficient
in its scientific aspect, cold as ice, reasoning, deductive, clear and passionless as crystal.

Democracy too is law, and of the strictest, amplest kind. Many suppose, (and often in its own
ranks the error,) that it means a throwing aside of law, and running riot. But, briefly, it
is the superior law, not alone that of physical force, the body, which, adding to, it supersedes
with that of the spirit. Law is the unshakable order of the universe forever; and the law over
all, and law of laws, is the law of successions; that of the superior law, in time, gradually
supplanting and overwhelming the inferior one. (While, for myself, I would cheerfully agree--first
covenanting that the formative tendencies shall be administer'd in favor, or at least not against
it, and that this reservation be closely construed--that until the individual or community
show due signs, or be so minor and fractional as not to endanger the State, the condition of
authoritative tutelage may continue, and self-government must abide its time.) Nor is the esthetic
point, always an important one, without fascination for highest aiming souls. The common ambition
strains for elevations, to become some privileged exclusive. The master sees greatness and
health in being part of the mass; nothing will do as well as common ground. Would you have
in yourself the divine, vast, general law? Then merge yourself in it.

And, topping democracy, this most alluring record, that it alone can bind, and ever seeks to
bind, all nations, all men, of however various and distant lands, into a brotherhood, a family.
It is the old, yet ever-modern dream of earth, out of her eldest and her youngest, her fond
philosophers and poets. Not that half only, individualism, which isolates. There is another
half, which is adhesiveness or love, that fuses, ties and aggregates, making the races comrades,
and fraternizing all. Both are to be vitalized by religion, (sole worthiest elevator of man
or State,) breathing into the proud, material tissues, the breath of life. For I say at the
core of democracy, finally, is the religious element. All the religions, old and new, are there.
Nor may the scheme step forth, clothed in resplendent beauty and command, till these, bearing
the best, the latest fruit, the spiritual, shall fully appear.

A portion of our pages we might indite with reference toward Europe, especially the British
part of it, more than our own land, perhaps not absolutely needed for the home reader. But
the whole question hangs together, and fastens and links all peoples. The liberalist of to-day
has this advantage over antique or mediaeval times, that his doctrine seeks not only to individualize
but to universalize. The great word Solidarity has arisen. Of all dangers to a nation, as things
exist in our day, there can be no greater one than having certain portions of the people set
off from the rest by a line drawn--they not privileged as others, but degraded, humiliated,
made of no account. Much quackery teems, of course, even on democracy's side, yet does not
really affect the orbic quality of the matter. To work in, if we may so term it, and justify
God, his divine aggregate, the People, (or, the veritable horn'd and sharp-tail'd Devil, his
aggregate, if there be who convulsively insist upon it)--this, I say, is what democracy is
for; and this is what our America means, and is doing--may I not say, has done? If not, she
means nothing more, and does nothing more, than any other land. And as, by virtue of its kosmical,
antiseptic power, Nature's stomach is fully strong enough not only to digest the morbific matter
always presented, not to be turn'd aside, and perhaps, indeed, intuitively gravitating thither--but
even to change such contributions into nutriment for highest use and life--so American democracy's.
That is the lesson we, these days, send over to European lands by every western breeze.

And, truly, whatever may be said in the way of abstract argument, for or against the theory
of a wider democratizing of institutions in any civilized country, much trouble might well
be saved to all European lands by recognizing this palpable fact, (for a palpable fact it is,)
that some form of such democratizing is about the only resource now left. That, or chronic
dissatisfaction continued, mutterings which grow annually louder and louder, till, in due course,
and pretty swiftly in most cases, the inevitable crisis, crash, dynastic ruin. Anything worthy
to be call'd statesmanship in the Old World, I should say, among the advanced students, adepts,
or men of any brains, does not debate to-day whether to hold on, attempting to lean back and
monarchize, or to look forward and democratize--but how, and in what degree and part, most
prudently to democratize.

The eager and often inconsiderate appeals of reformers and revolutionists are indispensable,
to counterbalance the inertness and fossilism making so large a part of human institutions.
The latter will always take care of themselves--the danger being that they rapidly tend to
ossify us. The former is to be treated with indulgence, and even with respect. As circulation
to air, so is agitation and a plentiful degree of speculative license to political and moral
sanity. Indirectly, but surely, goodness, virtue, law, (of the very best,) follow freedom.
These, to democracy, are what the keel is to the ship, or saltness to the ocean.

The true gravitation-hold of liberalism in the United States will be a more universal ownership
of property, general homesteads, general comfort--a vast, intertwining reticulation of wealth.
As the human frame, or, indeed, any object in this manifold universe, is best kept together
by the simple miracle of its own cohesion, and the necessity, exercise and profit thereof,
so a great and varied nationality, occupying millions of square miles, were firmest held and
knit by the principle of the safety and endurance of the aggregate of its middling property
owners. So that, from another point of view, ungracious as it may sound, and a paradox after
what we have been saying, democracy looks with suspicious, ill-satisfied eye upon the very
poor, the ignorant, and on those out of business. She asks for men and women with occupations,
well-off, owners of houses and acres, and with cash in the bank--and with some cravings for
literature, too; and must have them, and hastens to make them. Luckily, the seed is already
well-sown, and has taken ineradicable root.[25]

Huge and mighty are our days, our republican lands--and most in their rapid shiftings, their
changes, all in the interest of the cause. As I write this particular passage, (November, 1868,)
the din of disputation rages around me. Acrid the temper of the parties, vital the pending
questions. Congress convenes; the President sends his message; reconstruction is still in abeyance;
the nomination and the contest for the twenty-first Presidentiad draw close, with loudest threat
and bustle. Of these, and all the like of these, the eventuations I know not; but well I know
that behind them, and whatever their eventuations, the vital things remain safe and certain,
and all the needed work goes on. Time, with soon or later superciliousness, disposes of Presidents,
Congressmen, party platforms, and such. Anon, it clears the stage of each and any mortal shred
that thinks itself so potent to its day; and at and after which, (with precious, golden exceptions
once or twice in a century,) all that relates to sir potency is flung to moulder in a burial-vault,
and no one bothers himself the least bit about it afterward. But the People ever remain, tendencies
continue, and all the idiocratic transfers in unbroken chain go on.

In a few years the dominion-heart of America will be far inland, toward the west. Our future
national capital may not be where the present one is. It is possible, nay likely, that in less
than fifty years, it will migrate a thousand or two miles, will be re-founded, and every thing
belonging to it made on a different plan, original, far more superb. The main social, political,
spine-character of the States will probably run along the Ohio, Missouri and Mississippi rivers,
and west and north of them, including Canada. Those regions, with the group of powerful brothers
toward the Pacific, (destined to the mastership of that sea and its countless paradises of
islands,) will compact and settle the traits of America, with all the old retain'd, but more
expanded, grafted on newer, hardier, purely native stock. A giant growth, composite from the
rest, getting their contribution, absorbing it, to make it more illustrious. From the north,
intellect, the sun of things, also the idea of unswayable justice, anchor amid the last, the
wildest tempests. From the south the living soul, the animus of good and bad, haughtily admitting
no demonstration but its own. While from the west itself comes solid personality, with blood
and brawn, and the deep quality of all-accepting fusion.

Political democracy, as it exists and practically works in America, with all its threatening
evils, supplies a training-school for making first-class men. It is life's gymnasium, not of
good only, but of all. We try often, though we fall back often. A brave delight, fit for freedom's
athletes, fills these arenas, and fully satisfies, out of the action in them, irrespective
of success. Whatever we do not attain, we at any rate attain the experiences of the fight,
the hardening of the strong campaign, and throb with currents of attempt at least. Time is
ample. Let the victors come after us. Not for nothing does evil play its part among us. Judging
from the main portions of the history of the world, so far, justice is always in jeopardy,
peace walks amid hourly pitfalls, and of slavery, misery, meanness, the craft of tyrants and
the credulity of the populace, in some of their protean forms, no voice can at any time say,
They are not. The clouds break a little, and the sun shines out--but soon and certain the lowering
darkness falls again, as if to last forever. Yet is there an immortal courage and prophecy
in every sane soul that cannot, must not, under any circumstances, capitulate. Vive, the attack--the
perennial assault! Vive, the unpopular cause--the spirit that audaciously aims--the never-abandon'd
efforts, pursued the same amid opposing proofs and precedents. A foreigner, an acute and good
man, had impressively said to me, that day--putting in form, indeed, my own observations: "I
have travel'd much in the United States, and watch'd their politicians, and listen'd to the
speeches of the candidates, and read the journals, and gone into the public houses, and heard
the unguarded talk of men. And I have found your vaunted America honeycomb'd from top to toe
with infidelism, even to itself and its own programme. I have mark'd the brazen hell-faces
of secession and slavery gazing defiantly from all the windows and doorways. I have everywhere
found, primarily, thieves and scalliwags arranging the nominations to offices, and sometimes
filling the offices themselves. I have found the north just as full of bad stuff as the south.
Of the holders of public office in the Nation or the States or their municipalities, I have
found that not one in a hundred has been chosen by any spontaneous selection of the outsiders,
the people, but all have been nominated and put through by little or large caucuses of the
politicians, and have got in by corrupt rings and electioneering, not capacity or desert. I
have noticed how the millions of sturdy farmers and mechanics are thus the helpless supple-jacks
of comparatively few politicians. And I have noticed more and more, the alarming spectacle
of parties usurping the government, and openly and shamelessly wielding it for party purposes."

Sad, serious, deep truths. Yet are there other, still deeper, amply confronting, dominating
truths. Over those politicians and great and little rings, and over all their insolence and
wiles, and over the powerfulest parties, looms a power, too sluggish maybe, but ever holding
decisions and decrees in hand, ready, with stern process, to execute them as soon as plainly
needed--and at times, indeed, summarily crushing to atoms the mightiest parties, even in the
hour of their pride.

In saner hours far different are the amounts of these things from what, at first sight, they
appear. Though it is no doubt important who is elected governor, mayor, or legislator, (and
full of dismay when incompetent or vile ones get elected, as they sometimes do,) there are
other, quieter contingencies, infinitely more important. Shams, &c., will always be the show,
like ocean's scum; enough, if waters deep and clear make up the rest. Enough, that while the
piled embroider'd shoddy gaud and fraud spreads to the superficial eye, the hidden warp and
weft are genuine, and will wear forever. Enough, in short, that the race, the land which could
raise such as the late rebellion, could also put it down. The average man of a land at last
only is important. He, in these States, remains immortal owner and boss, deriving good uses,
somehow, out of any sort of servant in office, even the basest; (certain universal requisites,
and their settled regularity and protection, being first secured,) a nation like ours, in a
sort of geological formation state, trying continually new experiments, choosing new delegations,
is not served by the best men only, but sometimes more by those that provoke it--by the combats
they arouse. Thus national rage, fury, discussions, &c., better than content. Thus, also, the
warning signals, invaluable for after times.

What is more dramatic than the spectacle we have seen repeated, and doubtless long shall see--the
popular judgment taking the successful candidates on trial in the offices--standing off, as
it were, and observing them and their doings for a while, and always giving, finally, the fit,
exactly due reward? I think, after all, the sublimest part of political history, and its culmination,
is currently issuing from the American people. I know nothing grander, better exercise, better
digestion, more positive proof of the past, the triumphant result of faith in human-kind, than
a well-contested American national election.

Then still the thought returns, (like the thread-passage in overtures,) giving the key and
echo to these pages. When I pass to and fro, different latitudes, different seasons, beholding
the crowds of the great cities, New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Chicago, St. Louis,
San Francisco, New Orleans, Baltimore--when I mix with these interminable swarms of alert,
turbulent, good-natured, independent citizens, mechanics, clerks, young persons--at the idea
of this mass of men, so fresh and free, so loving and so proud, a singular awe falls upon me.
I feel, with dejection and amazement, that among our geniuses and talented writers or speakers,
few or none have yet really spoken to this people, created a single image-making work for them,
or absorb'd the central spirit and the idiosyncrasies which are theirs--and which, thus, in
highest ranges, so far remain entirely uncelebrated, unexpress'd.

Dominion strong is the body's; dominion stronger is the mind's. What has fill'd, and fills
to-day our intellect, our fancy, furnishing the standards therein, is yet foreign. The great
poems, Shakspere included, are poisonous to the idea of the pride and dignity of the common
people, the life-blood of democracy. The models of our literature, as we get it from other
lands, ultra-marine, have had their birth in courts, and bask'd and grown in castle sunshine;
all smells of princes' favors. Of workers of a certain sort, we have, indeed, plenty, contributing
after their kind; many elegant, many learn'd, all complacent. But touch'd by the national test,
or tried by the standards of democratic personality, they wither to ashes. I say I have not
seen a single writer, artist, lecturer, or what-not, that has confronted the voiceless but
ever erect and active, pervading, underlying will and typic aspiration of the land, in a spirit
kindred to itself. Do you call those genteel little creatures American poets? Do you term that
perpetual, pistareen, paste-pot work, American art, American drama, taste, verse? I think I
hear, echoed as from some mountain-top afar in the west, the scornful laugh of the Genius of
these States.

Democracy, in silence, biding its time, ponders its own ideals, not of literature and art only--not
of men only, but of women. The idea of the women of America, (extricated from this daze, this
fossil and unhealthy air which hangs about the word lady,) develop'd, raised to become the
robust equals, workers, and, it may be, even practical and political deciders with the men--greater
than man, we may admit, through their divine maternity, always their towering, emblematical
attribute--but great, at any rate, as man, in all departments; or, rather, capable of being
so, soon as they realize it, and can bring themselves to give up toys and fictions, and launch
forth, as men do, amid real, independent, stormy life.

Then, as towards our thought's finale, (and, in that, overarching the true scholar's lesson,)
we have to say there can be no complete or epical presentation of democracy in the aggregate,
or anything like it, at this day, because its doctrines will only be effectually incarnated
in any one branch, when, in all, their spirit is at the root and centre. Far, far, indeed,
stretch, in distance, our Vistas! How much is still to be disentangled, freed! How long it
takes to make this American world see that it is, in itself, the final authority and reliance!

Did you, too, O friend, suppose democracy was only for elections, for politics, and for a party
name? I say democracy is only of use there that it may pass on and come to its flower and fruits
in manners, in the highest forms of interaction between men, and their beliefs--in religion,
literature, colleges, and schools--democracy in all public and private life, and in the army
and navy.[26] I have intimated that, as a paramount scheme, it has yet few or no full realizers
and believers. I do not see, either, that it owes any serious thanks to noted propagandists
or champions, or has been essentially help'd, though often harm'd, by them. It has been and
is carried on by all the moral forces, and by trade, finance, machinery, intercommunications,
and, in fact, by all the developments of history, and can no more be stopp'd than the tides,
or the earth in its orbit. Doubtless, also, it resides, crude and latent, well down in the
hearts of the fair average of the American-born people, mainly in the agricultural regions.
But it is not yet, there or anywhere, the fully-receiv'd, the fervid, the absolute faith.

I submit, therefore, that the fruition of democracy, on aught like a grand scale, resides altogether
in the future. As, under any profound and comprehensive view of the gorgeous-composite feudal
world, we see in it, through the long ages and cycles of ages, the results of a deep, integral,
human and divine principle, or fountain, from which issued laws, ecclesia, manners, institutes,
costumes, personalities, poems, (hitherto unequall'd,) faithfully partaking of their source,
and indeed only arising either to betoken it, or to furnish parts of that varied-flowing display,
whose centre was one and absolute--so, long ages hence, shall the due historian or critic make
at least an equal retrospect, an equal history for the democratic principle. It too must be
adorn'd, credited with its results--then, when it, with imperial power, through amplest time,
has dominated mankind--has been the source and test of all the moral, esthetic, social, political,
and religious expressions and institutes of the civilized world--has begotten them in spirit
and in form, and has carried them to its own unprecedented heights--has had, (it is possible,)
monastics and ascetics, more numerous, more devout than the monks and priests of all previous
creeds--has sway'd the ages with a breadth and rectitude tallying Nature's own--has fashion'd,
systematized, and triumphantly finish'd and carried out, in its own interest, and with unparallel'd
success, a new earth and a new man.

Thus we presume to write, as it were, upon things that exist not, and travel by maps yet unmade,
and a blank. But the throes of birth are upon us; and we have something of this advantage in
seasons of strong formations, doubts, suspense--for then the afflatus of such themes haply
may fall upon us, more or less; and then, hot from surrounding war and revolution, our speech,
though without polish'd coherence, and a failure by the standard called criticism, comes forth,
real at least as the lightnings.

And may-be we, these days, have, too, our own reward--(for there are yet some, in all lands,
worthy to be so encouraged.) Though not for us the joy of entering at the last the conquer'd
city--not ours the chance ever to see with our own eyes the peerless power and splendid eclat
of the democratic principle, arriv'd at meridian, filling the world with effulgence and majesty
far beyond those of past history's kings, or all dynastic sway--there is yet, to whoever is
eligible among us, the prophetic vision, the joy of being toss'd in the brave turmoil of these
times--the promulgation and the path, obedient, lowly reverent to the voice, the gesture of
the god, or holy ghost, which others see not, hear not--with the proud consciousness that amid
whatever clouds, seductions, or heart-wearying postponements, we have never deserted, never
despair'd, never abandon'd the faith.

So much contributed, to be conn'd well, to help prepare and brace our edifice, our plann'd
Idea--we still proceed to give it in another of its aspects--perhaps the main, the high facade
of all. For to democracy, the leveler, the unyielding principle of the average, is surely join'd
another principle, equally unyielding, closely tracking the first, indispensable to it, opposite,
(as the sexes are opposite,) and whose existence, confronting and ever modifying the other,
often clashing, paradoxical, yet neither of highest avail without the other, plainly supplies
to these grand cosmic politics of ours, and to the launch'd-forth mortal dangers of republicanism,
to-day or any day, the counterpart and offset whereby Nature restrains the deadly original
relentlessness of all her first-class laws. This second principle is individuality, the pride
and centripetal isolation of a human being in himself--identity--personalism. Whatever the
name, its acceptance and thorough infusion through the organizations of political commonalty
now shooting Aurora-like about the world, are of utmost importance, as the principle itself
is needed for very life's sake. It forms, in a sort, or is to form, the compensating balance-wheel
of the successful working machinery of aggregate America.

And, if we think of it, what does civilization itself rest upon--and what object has it, with
its religions, arts, schools, &c., but rich, luxuriant, varied personalism? To that, all bends;
and it is because toward such result democracy alone, on anything like Nature's scale, breaks
up the limitless fallows of humankind, and plants the seed, and gives fair play, that its claims
now precede the rest. The literature, songs, esthetics, &c., of a country are of importance
principally because they furnish the materials and suggestions of personality for the women
and men of that country, and enforce them in a thousand effective ways.[27] As the topmost
claim of a strong consolidating of the nationality of these States, is, that only by such powerful
compaction can the separate States secure that full and free swing within their spheres, which
is becoming to them, each after its kind, so will individuality, with unimpeded branchings,
flourish best under imperial republican forms.

Assuming Democracy to be at present in its embryo condition, and that the only large and satisfactory
justification of it resides in the future, mainly through the copious production of perfect
characters among the people, and through the advent of a sane and pervading religiousness,
it is with regard to the atmosphere and spaciousness fit for such characters, and of certain
nutriment and cartoon-draftings proper for them, and indicating them for New-World purposes,
that I continue the present statement--an exploration, as of new ground, wherein, like other
primitive surveyors, I must do the best I can, leaving it to those who come after me to do
much better. (The service, in fact, if any, must be to break a sort of first path or track,
no matter how rude and ungeometrical.)

We have frequently printed the word Democracy. Yet I cannot too often repeat that it is a word
the real gist of which still sleeps, quite unawaken'd, notwithstanding the resonance and the
many angry tempests out of which its syllables have come, from pen or tongue. It is a great
word, whose history, I suppose, remains unwritten, because that history has yet to be enacted.
It is, in some sort, younger brother of another great and often-used word, Nature, whose history
also waits unwritten. As I perceive, the tendencies of our day, in the States, (and I entirely
respect them,) are toward those vast and sweeping movements, influences, moral and physical,
of humanity, now and always current over the planet, on the scale of the impulses of the elements.
Then it is also good to reduce the whole matter to the consideration of a single self, a man,
a woman, on permanent grounds. Even for the treatment of the universal, in politics, metaphysics,
or anything, sooner or later we come down to one single, solitary soul.

There is, in sanest hours, a consciousness, a thought that rises, independent, lifted out from
all else, calm, like the stars, shining eternal. This is the thought of identity--yours for
you, whoever you are, as mine for me. Miracle of miracles, beyond statement, most spiritual
and vaguest of earth's dreams, yet hardest basic fact, and only entrance to all facts. In such
devout hours, in the midst of the significant wonders of heaven and earth, (significant only
because of the Me in the centre,) creeds, conventions, fall away and become of no account before
this simple idea. Under the luminousness of real vision, it alone takes possession, takes value.
Like the shadowy dwarf in the fable, 'once liberated and look'd upon, it expands over the whole
earth, and spreads to the roof of heaven.

The quality of BEING, in the object's self, according to its own central idea and purpose,
and of growing therefrom and thereto--not criticism by other standards, and adjustments thereto--is
the lesson of Nature. True, the full man wisely gathers, culls, absorbs; but if, engaged disproportionately
in that, he slights or overlays the precious idiocrasy and special nativity and intention that
he is, the man's self, the main thing, is a failure, however wide his general cultivation.
Thus, in our times, refinement and delicatesse are not only attended to sufficiently, but threaten
to eat us up, like a cancer. Already, the democratic genius watches, ill-pleased, these tendencies.
Provision for a little healthy rudeness, savage virtue, justification of what one has in one's
self, whatever it is, is demanded. Negative qualities, even deficiencies, would be a relief.
Singleness and normal simplicity and separation, amid this more and more complex, more and
more artificialized state of society--how pensively we yearn for them! how we would welcome
their return!

In some such direction, then--at any rate enough to preserve the balance--we feel called upon
to throw what weight we can, not for absolute reasons, but current ones. To prune, gather,
trim, conform, and ever cram and stuff, and be genteel and proper, is the pressure of our days.
While aware that much can be said even in behalf of all this, we perceive that we have not
now to consider the question of what is demanded to serve a half-starved and barbarous nation,
or set of nations, but what is most applicable, most pertinent, for numerous congeries of conventional,
over-corpulent societies, already becoming stifled and rotten with flatulent, infidelistic
literature, and polite conformity and art. In addition to establish'd sciences, we suggest
a science as it were of healthy average personalism, on original-universal grounds, the object
of which should be to raise up and supply through the States a copious race of superb American
men and women, cheerful, religious, ahead of any yet known.

America has yet morally and artistically originated nothing. She seems singularly unaware that
the models of persons, books, manners, &c., appropriate for former conditions and for European
lands, are but exiles and exotics here. No current of her life, as shown on the surfaces of
what is authoritatively called her society, accepts or runs into social or esthetic democracy;
but all the currents set squarely against it.

We find ourselves abruptly in close quarters with the enemy. This word Culture, or what it
has come to represent, involves, by contrast, our whole theme, and has been, indeed, the spur,
urging us to engagement. Certain questions arise. As now taught, accepted and carried out,
are not the processes of culture rapidly creating a class of supercilious infidels, who believe
in nothing? Shall a man lose himself in countless masses of adjustments, and be so shaped with
reference to this, that, and the other, that the simply good and healthy and brave parts of
him are reduced and clipp'd away, like the bordering of box in a garden? You can cultivate
corn and roses and orchards--but who shall cultivate the mountain peaks, the ocean, and the
tumbling gorgeousness of the clouds? Lastly--is the readily-given reply that culture only seeks
to help, systematize, and put in attitude, the elements of fertility and power, a conclusive reply?

I do not so much object to the name, or word, but I should certainly insist, for the purposes
of these States, on a radical change of category, in the distribution of precedence. I should
demand a programme of culture, drawn out, not for a single class alone, or for the parlors
or lecture-rooms, but with an eye to practical life, the west, the working-men, the facts of
farms and jack-planes and engineers, and of the broad range of the women also of the middle
and working strata, and with reference to the perfect equality of women, and of a grand and
powerful motherhood. I should demand of this programme or theory a scope generous enough to
include the widest human area. It must have for its spinal meaning the formation of a typical
personality of character, eligible to the uses of the high average of men--and not restricted
by conditions ineligible to the masses. The best culture will always be that of the manly and
courageous instincts, and loving perceptions, and of self-respect--aiming to form, over this
continent, an idiocrasy of universalism, which, true child of America, will bring joy to its
mother, returning to her in her own spirit, recruiting myriads of offspring, able, natural,
perceptive, tolerant, devout believers in her, America, and with some definite instinct why
and for what she has arisen, most vast, most formidable of historic births, and is, now and
here, with wonderful step, journeying through Time.

The problem, as it seems to me, presented to the New World, is, under permanent law and order,
and after preserving cohesion, (ensemble-individuality,) at all hazards, to vitalize man's
free play of special Personalism, recognizing in it something that calls ever more to be consider'd,
fed, and adopted as the substratum for the best that belongs to us, (government indeed is for
it,) including the new esthetics of our future.

To formulate beyond this present vagueness--to help line and put before us the species, or
a specimen of the species, of the democratic ethnology of the future, is a work toward which
the genius of our land, with peculiar encouragement, invites her well-wishers. Already certain
limnings, more or less grotesque, more or less fading and watery, have appear'd. We too, (repressing
doubts and qualms,) will try our hand.

Attempting, then, however crudely, a basic model or portrait of personality for general use
for the manliness of the States, (and doubtless that is most useful which is most simple and
comprehensive for all, and toned low enough,) we should prepare the canvas well beforehand.
Parentage must consider itself in advance. (Will the time hasten when fatherhood and motherhood
shall become a science--and the noblest science?) To our model, a clear-blooded, strong-fibred
physique, is indispensable; the questions of food, drink, air, exercise, assimilation, digestion,
can never be intermitted. Out of these we descry a well-begotten selfhood--in youth, fresh,
ardent, emotional, aspiring, full of adventure; at maturity, brave, perceptive, under control,
neither too talkative nor too reticent, neither flippant nor sombre; of the bodily figure,
the movements easy, the complexion showing the best blood, somewhat flush'd, breast expanded,
an erect attitude, a voice whose sound outvies music, eyes of calm and steady gaze, yet capable
also of flashing--and a general presence that holds its own in the company of the highest.
(For it is native personality, and that alone, that endows a man to stand before presidents
or generals, or in any distinguish'd collection, with aplomb--and not culture, or any knowledge
or intellect whatever.) With regard to the mental-educational part of our model, enlargement
of intellect, stores of cephalic knowledge, &c., the concentration thitherward of all the customs
of our age, especially in America, is so overweening, and provides so fully for that part,
that, important and necessary as it is, it really needs nothing from us here--except, indeed,
a phrase of warning and restraint. Manners, costumes, too, though important, we need not dwell
upon here. Like beauty, grace of motion, &c., they are results. Causes, original things, being
attended to, the right manners unerringly follow. Much is said, among artists, of "the grand
style," as if it were a thing by itself. When a man, artist or whoever, has health, pride,
acuteness, noble aspirations, he has the motive-elements of the grandest style. The rest is
but manipulation, (yet that is no small matter.)

Leaving still unspecified several sterling parts of any model fit for the future personality
of America, I must not fail, again and ever, to pronounce myself on one, probably the least
attended to in modern times--a hiatus, indeed, threatening its gloomiest consequences after
us. I mean the simple, unsophisticated Conscience, the primary moral element. If I were asked
to specify in what quarter lie the grounds of darkest dread, respecting the America of our
hopes, I should have to point to this particular. I should demand the invariable application
to individuality, this day and any day, of that old, ever-true plumb-rule of persons, eras,
nations. Our triumphant modern civilizee, with his all-schooling and his wondrous appliances,
will still show himself but an amputation while this deficiency remains. Beyond, (assuming
a more hopeful tone,) the vertebration of the manly and womanly personalism of our western
world, can only be, and is, indeed, to be, (I hope,) its all-penetrating Religiousness.

The ripeness of Religion is doubtless to be looked for in this field of individuality, and
is a result that no organization or church can ever achieve. As history is poorly retain'd
by what the technists call history, and is not given out from their pages, except the learner
has in himself the sense of the well-wrapt, never yet written, perhaps impossible to be written,
history--so Religion, although casually arrested, and, after a fashion, preserv'd in the churches
and creeds, does not depend at all upon them, but is a part of the identified soul, which,
when greatest, knows not bibles in the old way, but in new ways--the identified soul, which
can really confront Religion when it extricates itself entirely from the churches, and not before.

Personalism fuses this, and favors it. I should say, indeed, that only in the perfect uncontamination
and solitariness of individuality may the spirituality of religion positively come forth at
all. Only here, and on such terms, the meditation, the devout ecstasy, the soaring flight.
Only here, communion with the mysteries, the eternal problems, whence? whither? Alone, and
identity, and the mood--and the soul emerges, and all statements, churches, sermons, melt away
like vapors. Alone, and silent thought and awe, and aspiration--and then the interior consciousness,
like a hitherto unseen inscription, in magic ink, beams out its wondrous lines to the sense.
Bibles may convey, and priests expound, but it is exclusively for the noiseless operation of
one's isolated Self, to enter the pure ether of veneration, reach the divine levels, and commune
with the unutterable.

