Animals of small size and delicate graceful form, which are separated from the deer and oxen
by certain peculiarities which approximate them to the swine in their feet. They are, however,
ruminants, having the complex stomach, composed of paunch, honeycomb-bag and reed, the manyplies
being almost rudimentary; but in the true ruminants the two centre metacarpals are fused into
a single bone, whilst the outer ones are rudimentary. In the pig all the metacarpal bones are
distinct, and the African Tragulus closely resembles it. The Asiatic ones have the two centre
bones fused, but the inner and outer ones are entire and distinct as in the swine. The legs
are, however, remarkably delicate, and so slight as to be not much thicker than an ordinary
lead pencil. The males have pendant tusks, like those of the musk and rib-faced deer.

GENUS TRAGULUS.

Has the hinder part of metatarsus bald and callous.

NO. 478. TRAGULUS NAPU. The Javan Deerlet.

NATIVE NAME.--Napu.

HABITAT.--Tenasserim and the Malay countries.

DESCRIPTION.--Above rusty brown, with three whitish stripes; under-parts white, tail tipped
with white, muzzle black.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tragulus kauchil is another Malayan species yet smaller than the preceding; it may be found
in Tenasserim. It is darker in colour than the last, especially along the back, with a broad
black band across the chest.

GENUS MEMINNA.

Hinder edge of metatarsus covered with hair.

NO. 479. MEMINNA INDICA. Indian Mouse Deer.

NATIVE NAMES.--Pisuri, Pisora, Pisai, Hindi and Mahratti; Mugi in Central India; Turi-maoo,
Gondi; Jitri-haran, Bengali; Gandwa, Ooria; Yar of the Koles; Wal-mooha, Singhalese.

HABITAT.--In all the large forests of India; but is not known, according to Jerdon, in the
countries eastward of the Bay of Bengal. It is common in the bamboo forests of the Central
provinces, where I obtained it on several occasions.

DESCRIPTION.--"Above olivaceous, mixed with yellow grey; white below; sides of the body with
yellowish-white lines formed of interrupted spots, the upper rows of which are joined to those
of the opposite side by some transverse spots; ears reddish-brown" (Jerdon). The colour however
varies; some are darker than others.

SIZE.--Length, 22 to 23 inches; tail, 1-1/2 inches; height, 10 to 12 inches. Weight, 5 to 6 lbs.

The above measurements and weight are taken from Jerdon. Professor Garrod (Cassell's Nat. His.)
gives eighteen inches for length and eight inches for height, which is nearer the size of those
I have kept in confinement; but mine were young animals. They are timid and delicate, but become
very tame, and I have had them running loose about the house. They trip about most daintily
on the tips of their toes, and look as if a puff of wind would blow them away.

They are said to rut in June and July, and bring forth two young about the end of the rainy season.

TRIBE TYLOPODA--THE CAMELS.

This name, which is derived from the Greek [Greek: tulos], a swelling, pad, or knot, and [Greek:
pous], a foot, is applied to the camels and llamas, whose feet are composed of toes protected
by cushion-like soles, and not by a horny covering like those of the Artiodactyli generally.
The foot of the camel consists of two toes tipped by small nails, and protected by soft pads
which spread out laterally when pressed on the ground. The two centre metacarpal bones are
fused into one cannon bone, and the phalanges of the outer and inner digits which are more
or less traceable in all the other families of the Artiodactyli are entirely absent.

The dentition of the camel too is somewhat different from the rest of the Ruminantia, for in
the front of the upper jaw there are two teeth placed laterally, one on each side, whereas
in all other ruminating animals there are no cutting teeth in the upper jaw--only a hard pad,
on which the lower teeth are pressed in the act of tearing off herbage.

The stomach of the camel is the third peculiarity which distinguishes it. The psalterium or
manyplies is wanting. The abomasum or "reed" is of great length, and the rumen or paunch is
lined with cells, deep and narrow, like those of a honeycomb, closed by a membrane, the orifice
of which is at the control of the animal. These cells are for the purpose of storing water,
of which the stomach when fully distended will hold about six quarts. The second stomach or
reticulum is also deeply grooved.

The hump of the camel may also be said to contain a store of food. It consists of fatty cells
connected by bands of fibrous tissue, which are absorbed, like the fat of hibernating bears,
into the system in times of deprivation. Hard work and bad feeding will soon bring down a camel's
hump; and the Arab of the desert is said to pay particular attention to this part of his animal's
body.

There are two species of true camel, Camelus dromedarius, with one hump only, most commonly
seen in India, and C. bactrianus, the two-humped camel, a shorter, coarser-looking, and less
speedy animal.

There never was a creature about whom more poetical nonsense has been written. He has been
extolled to the skies as patient, long-suffering, the friend of man, and what not. In reality
he is a grumbling, discontented, morose brute, working only under compulsion and continual
protest, and all writers who know anything of him agree in the above estimate of his disposition.
The camel is nowhere found in a wild state.

ORDER EDENTATA.

These are animals without teeth, according to the name of their order. They are however without
teeth only in the front of the jaw in all, but with a few molars in some, the Indian forms
however are truly edentate, having no teeth at all. In those genera where teeth are present
there are molars without enamel or distinct roots, but with a hollow base growing from below
and composed of three structures, vaso-dentine, hard dentine and cement, which, wearing away
irregularly according to hardness, form the necessary inequality for grinding purposes.

The order is subdivided into two groups: Tardigrada, or sloths, and Effodientia or burrowers.
With the former we have nothing to do, as they are peculiar to the American continent. The
burrowers are divided into the following genera: Manis, the scaly ant-eaters; Dasypus, the
armadillos; Chlamydophorus, the pichiciagos; Orycteropus, the ant-bears, and Myrmecophaga,
the American ant-eaters.

Of these we have only one genus in India; Manis, the pangolin or scaly ant-eater, species of
which are found in Africa as well as Asia.

GENUS MANIS.

Small animals from two to nearly five feet in length; elongated cylindrical bodies with long
tails, covered from snout to tip of tail with large angular fish-like scales, from which in
some parts of India they are called bun-rohu, or the jungle carp; also in Rungpore Keyot-mach,
which Jerdon translates the fish of the Keyots, but which probably means khet-mach or field-fish--but
in this I am open to correction. The scales overlap like tiles, the free part pointing backwards.
These form its defensive armour, for, although the manis possesses powerful claws, it never
uses them for offence, but when attacked rolls itself into a ball.

In walking it progresses slowly, arching its back and doubling its fore-feet so as to put the
upper surface to the ground and not the palm. The hind-foot is planted normally--that is, with
the sole on the earth.

The tongue is very long and worm-like, and covered with glutinous saliva; and, much of this
moisture being required, the sub-maxillary glands are very large, reaching down under the skin
of the neck on to the chest.

The external ear is very small, and internally it is somewhat complicated, there being a large
space in the temporal bone which communicates with the internal ear, so that, according to
Professor Martin-Duncan, one tympanum is in communication with the other.

These animals are essentially diggers. The construction of their fore-arms is such as to economise
strength and the effectiveness of their excavating instruments. The very doubling up of their
toes saves the points of their claws. The joints of the fore-fingers bend downwards, and are
endowed with powerful ligaments; and in the wrist the scaphoid and semi-lunar bones are united
by bone, which increases its strength. As Professor Martin-Duncan remarks: "Every structure
in the creature's fore-limbs tends to the promotion of easy and powerful digging, and, as the
motion of scratching the ground is directly downwards and backwards, the power of moving the
wrist half-round and presenting the palm more or less upwards, as in the sloths and in man,
does not exist. In order to prevent this pronation and supination the part of the fore-arm
bone, the radius, next to the elbow, is not rounded, but forms part of a hinge joint." He also
notices another interesting peculiarity in the chest of this animal, the breast-bone being
very long; the cartilage at end large, with two long projections resembling those of the lizards.
There is no collar-bone.

NO. 480. MANIS PENTADACTYLA vel BRACHYURA. The Five-fingered or Short-tailed Pangolin (Jerdon's
No. 241).

NATIVE NAMES.--Bajar-kit, Bajra-kapta, Sillu, Sukun-khor, Sal-salu, Hindi; Shalma of the Bauris;
Armoi of the Kols; Kauli-mah, Kauli-manjra, Kassoli-manjur, Mahratti; Alawa, Telegu; Alangu,
Malabarese; Bun-rohu in the Deccan, Central provinces, &c.; Keyot-mach, in Rungpore; Katpohu,
in parts of Bengal; Caballaya, Singhalese.

HABITAT.--Throughout India. Jerdon says most common in hilly districts, but nowhere abundant.
I have found it myself in the Satpura range, where it is called Bun-rohu.

DESCRIPTION.--Tail shorter than the body, broad at the base, tapering gradually to a point.
Eleven to thirteen longitudinal rows of sixteen scales on the trunk, and a mesial line of fourteen
on the tail; middle nail of fore-foot much larger than the others. Scales thick, striated at
base; yellowish-brown or light olive. Lower side of head, body, and feet, nude; nose fleshy;
soles of hind-feet dark.

SIZE.--Head and body, 24 to 27 inches; tail, about 18. Jerdon gives the weight of a female
measuring 40 inches as 21 pounds.

This species burrows in the ground to a depth of a dozen feet, more or less, where it makes
a large chamber, sometimes six feet in circumference. It lives in pairs, and has from one to
two young ones at a time in the spring months. Sir W. Elliot, who gives an interesting detailed
account of it, says that it closes up the entrance to its burrow with earth when in it, so
that it would be difficult to find it but for the peculiar track it leaves (see 'Madras Journal,'
x. p. 218). There is also a good account of it by Tickell in the 'Journal As. Soc. of Bengal,'
xi. p. 221, and some interesting details regarding one in captivity by the late Brigadier-General
A. C. McMaster in his 'Notes on Jerdon.' I have had specimens brought to me by the Gonds, but
found them very somnolent during the day, being, as most of the above authors state, nocturnal
in its habits. The first one I got had been kept for some time without water, and drank most
eagerly when it arrived, in the manner described by Sir Walter Elliot, "by rapidly darting
out its long extensile tongue, which it repeated so quickly as to fill the water with froth."

The only noise it makes is a faint hiss. It sleeps rolled up, with the head between the fore-legs
and the tail folded firmly over all.

The natives believe in the aphrodisine virtues of its flesh.

NO. 481. MANIS AURITA. The Eared Pangolin (Jerdon's No. 242).

HABITAT.--Sikhim, and along the hill ranges of the Indo-Chinese frontier. Dr. Anderson says
it is common in all the hilly country east of Bhamo.

DESCRIPTION.--Tail shorter and not so thick at the base as that of the last; the body less
heavy; smaller and darker scales; muzzle acute; ears conspicuous; scales of head and neck not
so small in proportion as in M. pentadactyla.

SIZE.--Head and body of one mentioned by Jerdon, 19 inches; tail, 15-1/4 inches.

NO. 482. MANIS JAVANICA. The Javan Ant-eater.

HABITAT.--Burmah and the Malayan peninsula; also Tipperah.

DESCRIPTION.--To be distinguished from the two preceding species by the greater number of longitudinal
rows of scales, M. pentadactyla having from eleven to thirteen, M. aurita from fifteen to eighteen,
and M. Javanica nineteen. Taking the number of scales in the longitudinal mesial line from
the nose to the tip of the tail in M. pentadactyla, it is forty-two; in aurita forty-eight
to fifty-six; in Javanica as high as sixty-four; on the tail the scales are: M. pentadactyla,
fourteen; M. aurita sixteen to twenty; M. Javanica thirty.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am indebted to Dr. Anderson's 'Zoological and Anatomical Researches' for the following summary
of characteristics:--

"M. pentadactyla by its less heavy body; by its tail, which is broad at the base, tapering
gradually to a point, and equalling the length of the head and trunk; by its large light olive-brown
scales, of which there are only from eleven to thirteen longitudinal rows on the trunk, and
a mesial line of fourteen on the tail; and by its powerful fore-claws, the centre one of which
is somewhat more than twice as long as the corresponding claw of the hinder extremity. M. aurita
is distinguished from M. pentadactyla by its less heavy body; by its rather shorter tail, which
has less basal breadth than M. pentadactyla; by its smaller and darker brown, almost black
scales in the adult, which are more numerous, there being from fifteen to eighteen longitudinal
rows on the trunk, seventeen rows being the normal number, and sixteen to twenty caudal plates
in the mesial line; and by its strong fore-claws, the middle one of which is not quite twice
as long as the corresponding claw on the hind foot.

"M. Javanica is recognised by its body being longer and more attenuated than in the two foregoing
species; by its narrower and more tapered tail; by its longer and more foliaceous or darker
olive-brown scales, of which there are nineteen longitudinal rows on the trunk, and as many
as thirty along the mesial line of the tail; and by the claws of the fore-feet being not nearly
so long as in M. aurita, and being but little in excess of the claws of the hind-feet."

APPENDIX A.

FAMILY MYOXIDAE--THE DORMICE.

These small rodents approximate more to the squirrels than the true mice; but they differ from
all others intestinally by the absence of a caecum. They have four rooted molars in each upper
and lower jaw, the first of each set being smaller than the other three, the crowns being composed
of transverse ridges of enamel. In form they are somewhat squirrel-like, with short fore-limbs,
and hairy, though not bushy, tails. The thumb is rudimentary, with a small, flat nail; hind-feet
with five toes.

