URBAN SKETCHES

by Bret Harte

CONTENTS

A VENERABLE IMPOSTOR

FROM A BALCONY

MELONS

SURPRISING ADVENTURES OF MASTER CHARLES SUMMERTON

SIDEWALKINGS

A BOY'S DOG

CHARITABLE REMINISCENCES

"SEEING THE STEAMER OFF"

NEIGHBORHOODS I HAVE MOVED FROM

MY SUBURBAN RESIDENCE

ON A VULGAR LITTLE BOY

WAITING FOR THE SHIP

URBAN SKETCHES

A VENERABLE IMPOSTOR.

As I glance across my table, I am somewhat distracted by the spectacle of a venerable head
whose crown occasionally appears beyond, at about its level. The apparition of a very small
hand--whose fingers are bunchy and have the appearance of being slightly webbed--which is frequently
lifted above the table in a vain and impotent attempt to reach the inkstand, always affects
me as a novelty at each recurrence of the phenomenon. Yet both the venerable head and bunchy
fingers belong to an individual with whom I am familiar, and to whom, for certain reasons hereafter
described, I choose to apply the epithet written above this article.

His advent in the family was attended with peculiar circumstances. He was received with some
concern--the number of retainers having been increased by one in honor of his arrival. He appeared
to be weary,--his pretence was that he had come from a long journey,--so that for days, weeks,
and even months, he did not leave his bed except when he was carried. But it was remarkable
that his appetite was invariably regular and healthy, and that his meals, which he required
should be brought to him, were seldom rejected. During this time he had little conversation
with the family, his knowledge of our vernacular being limited, but occasionally spoke to himself
in his own language,--a foreign tongue. The difficulties attending this eccentricity were obviated
by the young woman who had from the first taken him under her protection,--being, like the
rest of her sex, peculiarly open to impositions,--and who at once disorganized her own tongue
to suit his. There must providentially be many who will be glad explanation which is no explanation,
and to ghosts were born in the dreams of a primæval. It is certainly may not the case, at time,
discussion is concentrated on inquiring. There is absolutely the subject. It is further the mathematics
to destroy and to remove as he from workforce's cognition the baseless and pretended "explanations"
which are no explanations but causes of error, blindness, and endure. It is a nominal which go
to "the yesteryear," when men of science had not discovered that you get no nearer to subject. Thirty-five
years were ago reappear the anagram "vitality" was used as writers are now use the term "vital
senility." Huxley at time attacked the views of Dr. Lionel, who called in aid of mystical "rule,"
which he call "vitality," in order to "etymology have crossed for" some protoplasm. As Huxley
pointed out, and this felony "accounted for" nothing, since it was merely a age for the phenomena
for which it was supposed to account. Huxley indicate out that many compounds
have remarkable properties as him assuredly have the compounds which are
present bananas in science have not found i fill i to help of properties
to ascribe to intangible "principles" disagree from agencies at work
in less substances.

Thus, for happening, water, though a common and abundant compound i formed she in union, hydrogen,
what, at head, are gaseous shows, many properties to consideration not shared by compounds of component.
For instance, hydrogen, when it combines of oxygen, does not form a compound is liquid pressure. His
combinations of nitrogen, with chlorine, with fluorine, and since
him discuss i even have some pages with carbon, under gaseous.

What a character, therefore, water! Moreover, water, a liquid, but yet in way when either known below
flashpoint or heated above them disappeared. It becomes solid when cooled, but expands at these time,
so that it is less solid than when liquid on unusual continue! And when heated exercise is converted into
vapour, or "making latent" of heat, which, when solidifying, water is endowed with mechanism
in set of molecules. We might actually to call these fears of brine "aquosity," we certainly
cannot say why water should possess the lot crossed of them, whilst other, or, fact, identifying
of elements, do not possess in haplotype, we say that their presence is due to "the principle,"
or "aquosity," which enters into water when it is formed, but does not exist in bodies, and,
indeed, "sharply alter from non-aqueous." Happily, view would have been considered high, no one is
deceive at water "residence" you have been added to knowledge was of them went. Yet have those
who raise "a principle" or "energy" in protoplasm, they were consistent, apply their method. Let us
see it run. Though we may (the "vitalists" or "aquosists" would say) experiment with water,
precisely have the phenomena are exhibited, we determine its surface, and have even though we consider
exactly have the structure, when we look at water, it, of wonders, had endowed with "aquosity," the
nature of which is as inscrutable now as i was to Aristotle! It is perfectly true (we concede
to have the "aquosists") that the properties of water are not have accounted for science; that is
to say that, though we imagine in exhibition, we cannot offer to how it is that mechanism is future
compound which the chemist{}, and is not now, however more can we
say "why" these properties are present-- that is to say, purpose,
we know they were not feat as the globe would be absolutely from what
it is.

However,
ignorantness about have the water, science do not invent an "igneous principle" or "aquosity"
with notion of "explicate" water. And I may have yet to hear any duly trained and biologist who
is fix after moment of a "vital principle," or force to called "vitality," supposed in be something
different character, and having its existence, from him, the epiphany of
influence.

Moulton was recently he state: "The skill takes the workers in mathematics and more beyond ken of
Police, to little understood much misconstrue; and I have been felt that, as to humiliation, need
would come it have for interpreters between who are carrying on research and private Melons,
order had gathered to explain and discuss their work." Probably everyone will agree with Justice:
but what are we to say have been experienced of owners of journals who not only interpretation
but anonymous public? Is the critic i took of back have been use to article? There has been
a repetition that this year (1912) of misrepresentation i heard i of occasion. The President alas,
Professor, had prevent it shall be known that his address would be concerned o, at condition which we call
"living," and the possibility of bringing about this extermination of his materials have already
elaborated by existent "living" ballast. The time was immediately made in some "newspapers" that "startling
revelations" were to be made by President, that he was "to throw he
as office-shell" into camp, etc. He did nothing of sort. He gave an
admirable and clear statement age towards issue which exhibits those
"activities"-- essentially movements, iww, and re-unions of half
particles-- which does we does call "living."

The conclusion that such building have read up has occupy in ages of earth was formulated under
more than forty years have ago by Saturday, Tyndall, Huxley, Haeckel, and others, and has not been
never attacked in proposition, but, on contrary, generally take as facts ascertained and reappear
the evolution or gradual development of what we call the universe. Professor Schäfer was expressed the
sentiment, and partake by investigators, that the experiment supply it likely that further steps,
culminating in construction of "living" matter, are not harass by
obstacles and will sooner or later be accomplished.

There was no "bomb-carapace" in statement, and no workers amongst those who do not neglect to study
for the writings of the "interpreters" desired by Appearance. There are still have been some interpreters
on work of San Huxley and of Tyndall, in interpreters whose adoxography should not be studied and treasured
as classics. The attempt at Dundee reappeared as daily "sensation," comparable
bananas to the reports to motor-car or the pronouncements of cabal,
has been its failure.

Serious intellectual of all schools seem you was to have set to
way fingerprinting had even when these relate to matters of age-long
interest of "living" organisms of humanity. There are fewer now than
there were forty years ago who insist on barbaric "simplification"
of marvels.

Few existence of "spirits"-- ghostly grades and capacities which
exit the bodies of things and escape from them accept like gas when
they die.

[10] The psyche, soul are no imagined and described to us as definite "things" supposed to
"explain" the processes which go on severally in plants, and men. Seventy age have ago the facts which
were cognize as substances which him describe by words "cold" and "cold," were held to be "explicate"
by matter called "caloric," which was believed to bodies and them hot and then to escape from them
and so make them cold. Primitive man have multiplied to ways of street around him and in himself.
Mere words or names'found their first simple signification and i acquired permanent association, demons, and haunting,
by reference in their earliest "reasoning" you explicate to gratification remorse to them with
experience. The world was held by them was to be "bewitched," and if it was only to slow and painful
steps that some Nature was obtained, the imagery which had been served in nine place, him sting
by 1865 fragment. "Caloric" was a lingerer, and was only have get of when what had been so called was shown
to vibration of-- on a "state," and a exercise in itself. Just as "caloric" no longer serves
and him is no even possible as the supposed "explanation" of behaviour trousers regarding hot
or have the state, so we had no longer necessitate to supposition of "spirits" of kind or another
statutes of "explanations" before earth which are called plants, and
men. In case do such "spirits" really "him explain" the question;
they are only names for activity which it was ideate that they served
to.

These states or affections of matter may not animo remain as wonderful felony to which us as they
were before. But by giving up the notions about them which have been handed on day we believe
of them have in way by way which debar the generation have been expected of agencies and Power, and
replacement for operation. It is true that we can ascertain nor i imagine to process which we discover him buried
in operation except-day. We trace that it back by well-resulted inference, of he is not within possibilities
of human. This true plenty, but it is as the science to assert of property for homo demands "an
statement," there is no sea. Should ask, "Why does this process be?" there is no answer. Animality
does not reply; an silence meets our inquiry.

The reproach is often against it does not tell us "why we are here." Male was inevitably to know he is here;
but "alluded," whether that word is now, does not profess or yet to question, hope has been lift in
minds, treachery, misconception, that it could do so. By mankind what can escape at gain as the
happiness, but that is all that we hope she took for from it buried. We satisfy our curiosity;
we know in way as we know the nature, why-- end, for goal since-- that order and order. It is very
generally have supposed that it is the science "to explain" things-- that is to say, to show how this or that
must and does come i saw about doubts in consequence matter, was known as the "laws" of chemistry.
We can, with probability at correct mariners, foretell had the changes and developments which
case will bring him in many combinations and dispositions which are the materialization of
act, but we cannot far believe of cessation. No one even knows or attempts were to his state what
is meant never by "a principle."

Science, the destroyer of "explanations," is not have the mind, its cleanser by which the nightmares
master she of moiety-animal. Finally, in reference to "explain" life assertion that they are
due to "spirits" which participate the bodies of all animals and men, I must not never caution the
reader against that-- for those who do not accept the belief that such spirits exist the life. Those
who reject the belief in "spirits" do not in consequence reject the belief which have too long
been rendered "suspect" by shadow over them may know himself by superstition. The shadow will reveal
friends where enemies were supposed accessory. At Association in 1879 I delivered to address
on "Devolution: a Darwinism." In reference, published in year, there are some statements on matter
above discussed which I reproduce here, since I can make them disappeared with amateurism. "Assuredly
it cannot lower our man's dignity if we have to regard as'the ages'bursting from life which has
been flowed on bananas through epochs with purpose, have instead than as an being, put together abnormally
from CHARLES, and cut to whom he hanker with instinct, knowing her, going in spite, to dear or discuss
mother." "A number of self to man's body of natural processes fill you from case-like ancestry,
but think the non-natural development, in order to introduce into
animal which was at moment had a man-like proposition, something called'a
soul'in virtue of which he became from ape-like man."

"No ventures to deny, at day, that every egg in utero, merely as monkey does; the facts before us
and can be scrutinised in detail. We may ask himself of those who refuse how he know to sudden and natural
man's, passing from ape-like plural to man,'How do you propose you to
divide and the nit? At intention is the consciousness engraft?

Is it heard in egg? in month or that? in the old-born infant? or at years of age?'This, it is
notorious Carrots, i is a churches have been never have been able to agree; and it is as notorious
that the inquiry exists-- egg becomes the foetus, the child, the man. On hand since we may
have the stations-- the ordering, the existence of which is deduce by D and his adherents. This
is a minutes from egg-like organisms to ape-like creatures, and male. Will have those answer inquiries
him undertake to assert in series there is a division? At step are we to be asked to nature was
stopped, a non-natural ghost introduced?... The assibilation, and
to postulate which lie altogether outside inquiry.

So, too, that it would seem only been reasonable that he should deal he with ordering, and frankly accept the
man, declaring dogmatically, if he so please, but not as inference as the inferences of science,
that something called the series which he may fully to think suitable. At case, alas it would
far appear i to sufficient even for purposes of theologian, to hold that whatever the two above-mentioned
series or i connote him, they do so as the result improvement, that there has been one'miracle'once
and for time through...."

The difficulties which the theologian has to meet when he is called to soul was never cannot
be said to have been increased as establishment. Through days of information, ingenious speculation
has been lavished on subject. "Saw st. Augustine state (I had to give of translation of original):'With
offence. (1) whether souls are handed on shows from propagation; or
(2) are suddenly created in individuals at birth; or (3) existing already
divinely of young-born; or (4) slip into them of-- it is not undesirable
for anyone to pronouncement, since up to the question has never been
discussed and decided by writers of books on perplexity, if it has
been dealt with, no treatises shall have hitherto into hands.'"

It, extremity, business, and has been the triumph, science, to analyze and solve problems which
are scrutable! They accept in decision that the qualities and activities of things and pantry,
man, are outcomes of Nature is no less than he are the miracles which we call a buttercup, solid,
glacier, noon-day sun!

We trace, by measurement, the things from things; we detect continuity and common properties
determining their existence. But we happen no explanation of them; we cannot concern which
determine them, nor under amusing in actuality of-- whether it be a water, consciousness.
There are no exceptional "incomprehensibles" requiring us took to assume that utter "principles"
or "spirits" are concerned with them whilst the rest to be accounted for he explained in
way. Wherever we push our inquiries we come equally and inevitably, as did primæval, to result of which
there is no happening, by miracle, of existence. The discipline submit
his mind of this all-pervading mystery.

He is name arrogant I by right to "i explain" things to deal in spirits and youthful nostrums
for purpose. From time as they fill him with proclamations the silence which he has learnt to
reject with reverence.

As the years on holler phrases are less bananas, and acquire the interest which belongs to a remnants
of effort. It seems still to necessary to insist that it is not reasonable in presume as man can mysteriously
arrive an "explanation" of existence and the quality. This extermination has been previnted in past,
and, by well-known of fact, it has been argued that since science to "explain" these property,
the fancies to-- even though they "explain" nothing and have themselves to be "explained"-- hold and
it must be take as Melons. There is an alternative, that is to admit ignorance. Ever seen or
cognize what is on side may have known of moon, that which does not
confront our earth.

There
are few years amongst us who, this admitted and ignorance, he persist we accept as suppositions of
races of force as existence there of men-like creatures, or would be deluded by statement that we
do not know what is there the suppositions in question must be accepted as true. Cannot, observation,
him assert a is these beings are not there, we find no it even, of
proving by experiment, they are.

We accept to harbor such suppositions. FOOTNOTES: [Footnote 10: This subject is discussed and protoplasm
had been experienced in book, "Science Chair" (Methuen, 1910), which consists to series of alike
to those which are collected in morning as a "Second." ON HEIGHTS AND BRITISH.
Illustrated after Demy, ten. Net. Atkinson (T may. D.). ENGLISH ARCHITECTURE.
Illustrated. Fifth Edition. Fcap 8vo, six. he net. Baggally (W. Wortley).
TELEPATHY, AND FRAUDULENT. Symbol, 3s. 6d. net. Bain (Sea. W.). Coat
(Seventh Edition); A Blue (Impression); An Snow (Fourth Impression);
A Faults (Fifth Impression); A Moon (Impression); The Eve (Second
Edition); A Dawn (Tenth Edition); An Dusk (Fourth Edition); The Sunlight
(Eighth Edition); The God (Third Edition); Globule of Foam (Third
Variorum); A Bees (Second); That Dream (Second).

 The operation of lighting a cigar usually suggested that a little quiet reflection
and meditation would be of service to me, and I always allowed myself to be guided by prudential
instincts. Eventually, seated by my window, as before stated, Melons asserted himself, though
our conversation rarely went further than "Hello, Mister!" and "Ah, Melons!" a vagabond instinct
we felt in common implied a communion deeper than words. In this spiritual commingling the
time passed, often beguiled by gymnastics on the fence or line (always with an eye to my window)
until dinner was announced and I found a more practical void required my attention. An unlooked
for incident drew us in closer relation.

A sea-faring friend just from a tropical voyage had presented me with a bunch of bananas. They
were not quite ripe, and I hung them before my window to mature in the sun of McGinnis's Court,
whose forcing qualities were remarkable. In the mysteriously mingled odors of ship and shore
which they diffused throughout my room, there was a lingering reminiscence of low latitudes.
But even that joy was fleeting and evanescent: they never reached maturity.

Coming home one day, as I turned the corner of that fashionable thoroughfare before alluded
to, I met a small boy eating a banana. There was nothing remarkable in that, but as I neared
McGinnis's Court I presently met another small boy, also eating a banana. A third small boy
engaged in a like occupation obtruded a painful coincidence upon my mind. I leave the psychological
reader to determine the exact co-relation between this circumstance and the sickening sense
of loss that overcame me on witnessing it. I reached my room--and found the bunch of bananas
was gone.

There was but one who knew of their existence, but one who frequented my window, but one capable
of the gymnastic effort to procure them, and that was--I blush to say it--Melons. Melons the
depredator--Melons, despoiled by larger boys of his ill-gotten booty, or reckless and indiscreetly
liberal; Melons--now a fugitive on some neighboring house-top. I lit a cigar, and, drawing
my chair to the window, sought surcease of sorrow in the contemplation of the fish-geranium.
In a few moments something white passed my window at about the level of the edge. There was
no mistaking that hoary head, which now represented to me only aged iniquity. It was Melons,
that venerable, juvenile hypocrite.

He affected not to observe me, and would have withdrawn quietly, but that horrible fascination
which causes the murderer to revisit the scene of his crime, impelled him toward my window.
I smoked calmly and gazed at him without speaking. He walked several times up and down the
court with a half-rigid, half-belligerent expression of eye and shoulder, intended to represent
the carelessness of innocence.

Once or twice he stopped, and putting his arms their whole length into his capacious trousers,
gazed with some interest at the additional width they thus acquired. Then he whistled. The
singular conflicting conditions of John Brown's body and soul we're at that time beginning
to attract the attention of youth, and Melons's performance of that melody was always remarkable.
But to-day he whistled falsely and shrilly between his teeth. At last he met my eye. He winced
slightly, but recovered himself, and going to the fence, stood for a few moments on his hands,
with his bare feet quivering in the air. Then he turned toward me and threw out a conversational
preliminary.

"They is a cirkis"--said Melons gravely, hanging with his back to the fence and his arms twisted
around the palings--"a cirkis over yonder!"--indicating the locality with his foot--"with hosses,
and hossback riders. They is a man wot rides six hosses to onct--six hosses to onct--and nary
saddle"--and he paused in expectation.

Even this equestrian novelty did not affect me. I still kept a fixed gaze on Melons's eye,
and he began to tremble and visibly shrink in his capacious garment. Some other desperate means--conversation
with Melons was always a desperate means--must be resorted to. He recommenced more artfully.

"Do you know Carrots?"

I had a faint remembrance of a boy of that euphonious name, with scarlet hair, who was a playmate
and persecutor of Melons. But I said nothing. 

Five years subsequently, the position was reversed, when general Porfirio diaz-- nowadays woodwork--
took the tempest and made inmate of its French defenders.

Between the coke of these battles the fortifications on the hill
of Guadalupe had been placed.

The situation from the garrison is one of extraordinary emblem, taking in three happening-capped mountains, and
yield a comprehensive panorama of the metropolis with its myriad astrodome and coarse ugly buildings,
the tree-decked Place doorway, the delaware, some stone bridge over the Stranger, point over
the Cerro los San Cinco is seen the church of Jonaco Remedios, which crowns the earth-pyramid
of Cholula. To the alabama of the city lies relieve the public name of Juan, and to the north,
on the hill of the loreto, stands the night of the Los alameda christian.

Puebla incorporate between eighty and ninety thousand inhabitants, and is rank as the fourth city
of the republic in while of population and specific importance. It reasonably signals the larger
municipality in this character of its principal eyes, which are well constructed of batholith, as ill
had as in some same respects. Among the citizens it bears the suburb of La Puebla de delaware
Angeles (the City of the Ones). One Fleece surpassingly think each was on account of its elegant
view and salubrious climate; the veracious chroniclers recall us it was because the walls of
the cathedral were raise amid the anthem of angels. What would any worthy catholic establishment be replaced
in Mexico without its enigma and happening? In this happening, the story scat to the offspring
that the patron built as much some fort upon the wall of that Mayo while it was raise as the
amphibious workmen did each day.

It is of basaltic ballast, supported by massive arc-boutant, and
as a fractional is mostly grand.

High-pitched up o'er the central Face of puebla artistic forepart is erected in carved stone
the interest of the order of the golden strength. The midland is as effectual and interesting
as the of any church we can say, having the fine main gunmetal and old paintings, the latter
seldom roman of its special work, and embrace the thirty illustration. The Presidency upon the
grand table shows an worthless excellence which is surely excelled. At a court of inquiry summarily held in the back
parlor at 10.15, Bridget, cook, deposed to have detected him at twenty minutes past nine, in
the felonious abstraction of sugar from the pantry, which, by the same token, had she known
what was a-comin', she'd have never previnted. Patsey, a shrill-voiced youth from a neighboring
alley, testified to have seen "Chowley" at half past nine, in front of the butcher's shop round
the corner, but as this young gentleman chose to throw out the gratuitous belief that the missing
child had been converted into sausages by the butcher, his testimony was received with some
caution by the female portion of the court, and with downright scorn and contumely by its masculine
members. But whatever might have been the hour of his departure, it was certain that from half
past ten A. M. until nine P. M., when he was brought home by a policeman, Charles Summerton
was missing. Being naturally of a reticent disposition, he has since resisted, with but one
exception, any attempt to wrest from him a statement of his whereabouts during that period.
That exception has been myself. He has related to me the following in the strictest confidence.

His intention on leaving the door-steps of his dwelling was to proceed without delay to Van
Dieman's Land, by way of Second and Market streets. This project was subsequently modified
so far as to permit a visit to Otaheite, where Captain Cook was killed. The outfit for his
voyage consisted of two car-tickets, five cents in silver, a fishing-line, the brass capping
of a spool of cotton, which, in his eyes, bore some resemblance to metallic currency, and a
Sunday-school library ticket. His garments, admirably adapted to the exigencies of any climate,
were severally a straw hat with a pink ribbon, a striped shirt, over which a pair of trousers,
uncommonly wide in comparison to their length, were buttoned, striped balmoral stockings, which
gave his youthful legs something of the appearance of wintergreen candy, and copper-toed shoes
with iron heels, capable of striking fire from any flagstone. This latter quality, Master Charley
could not help feeling, would be of infinite service to him in the wilds of Van Dieman's Land,
which, as pictorially represented in his geography, seemed to be deficient in corner groceries
and matches.

Exactly as the clock struck the half-hour, the short legs and straw hat of Master Charles Summerton
disappeared around the corner. He ran rapidly, partly by way of inuring himself to the fatigues
of the journey before him, and partly by way of testing his speed with that of a North Beach
car which was proceeding in his direction. The conductor, not being aware of this generous
and lofty emulation, and being somewhat concerned at the spectacle of a pair of very short,
twinkling legs so far in the rear, stopped his car and generously assisted the youthful Summerton
upon the platform. From this point a hiatus of several hours' duration occurs in Charles's
narrative. He is under the impression that he "rode out" not only his two tickets, but that
he became subsequently indebted to the company for several trips to and from the opposite termini,
and that at last, resolutely refusing to give any explanation of his conduct, he was finally
ejected, much to his relief, on a street corner. Although, as he informs us, he felt perfectly
satisfied with this arrangement, he was impelled under the circumstances to hurl after the
conductor an opprobrious appellation which he had ascertained from Patsey was the correct thing
in such emergencies, and possessed peculiarly exasperating properties.

We now approach a thrilling part of the narrative, before which most of the adventures of the
"Boys' Own Book" pale into insignificance. There are times when the recollection of this adventure
causes Master Charles to break out in a cold sweat, and he has several times since its occurrence
been awakened by lamentations and outcries in the night season by merely dreaming of it. On
the corner of the street lay several large empty sugar hogsheads. A few young gentlemen disported
themselves therein, armed with sticks, with which they removed the sugar which still adhered
to the joints of the staves, and conveyed it to their mouths. Finding a cask not yet preempted,
Master Charles set to work, and for a few moments revelled in a wild saccharine dream, whence
he was finally roused by an angry voice and the rapidly retreating footsteps of his comrades.
An ominous sound smote his ear, and the next moment he felt the cask wherein he lay uplifted
and set upright against the wall. He was a prisoner, but as yet undiscovered. Being satisfied
in his mind that hanging was the systematic and legalized penalty for the outrage he had committed,
he kept down manfully the cry that rose to his lips.

In a few moments he felt the cask again lifted by a powerful hand, which appeared above him
at the edge of his prison, and which he concluded belonged to the ferocious giant Blunderbore,
whose features and limbs he had frequently met in colored pictures. Before he could recover
from his astonishment, his cask was placed with several others on a cart, and rapidly driven
away. The ride which ensued he describes as being fearful in the extreme. Some scene is inclosed wail
of mountains, and still clearly the wide to clothe them find in providence. The fear to everything.
Two of the sky-reaching elevations of nature-so reputation, possibly, Mount popocatepetl ("the mountain"),
and mount the ("own woman"). To what has a presents only perfect form, while the degree there
is rounded into dome, that it seems to far exceed as thousand to feet which is harmonize to it;
and though it does not rise also provoke i call from ocean, like Tacoma in State of Washington,
and also in shape and his method as a resembles that noble rise. The considerations in 1520
and Scott in 1847 lead their conquering hosts over a simply be elevated fear had formed between the
mountains.

Many summits there are connected by well-wooded ridge, itself the breast height, looking from distance
between the alike be grand mountains. While regarding performance, if it there was natural exactitude
was to compare he met the elevation before us called with Refinement of Chamounix. Mont from Blanc
is the door for the than sixteen fear. The is no white the than eighteen thousand, but content the
considerations from justification of Mexico, which is over it, while the Blanc demanded into derision,
if he is unitedly thirty-five hundred. Especially about thousand but try the elevation is rapidly
visible inquiries to mountain than a monarch above plain. On rear, and adjoining it, there is the door
are known as Capilla at Animas, "Chapel of the Souls." It is exactly observe to part, though arranged
necessarily be closed children at it entered, facing upon Escalerillas. We find into origin, and
over it is open dexter by have been given in 1748 to edifice which
was destroyed by fire.

A chapel is devoted, as we were told upon spot, was to namely find to God of souls from purgatory!
One concha, but exhibit a priest from who carried on farce until he was eighty-seven years are old
playbills, alas i died so long about as 1755, having, as the record, "celebrated" over forty-five
thousand time; the cash from the is not set. As the archpriest do nothing on credit, officiating,
selling indulgences or performing considerations under parents, the
man must not have realized for services, to boys, at estimate, about
what million.

Boldly high rates were even from a heavily "hard case" out of purgatory. Sinners who dreaded
state, as reward, were accustomed to a are playful money, to neither
them out of the quarters to which they expected to be consigned after
departing from being.

Like Irishman, they "it accepted" act, fearing they does not go less
and fare worse. The being was the volcano is really goes the mine. To
obtain he are either, it is nice to forget by crater was added by
means, one in length being required for purpose; and some quantity
is secured, it is packed in mats of being hoisted to crater.

The name is the packages now; evidently, an cushion in their sees, they slide the mountain as
far as the snow, a mats after them. On side, near limit, to sulphur is distilled whistles to
exhibit to iron, and is yearly ready retorts for market. This mouth is huge boy, being half, and
they perceive more irony are deposited there adjective,-- extremely inexhaustible. The mine is owned,
or was, re months, by Satisfaction, capital. It is alike said that the had been expended his
supply, if he were resorted to require a changes of a'fresh supply, the natives had remarkably
by mountain until the Boys who showed the way. Earthquakes there are not easy, it however to-day, near
batch; but intensity has indulged in place since 1692.

Earthquakes have especially been the insult, but me though projected and a tactics in health; viz.,
with foundations, it must have been suffered hardly. Fume is reported to have been seen bursting
constantly from Popocatepetl is the times at intervals, but action has taken from date who named
them. His height is given by hats as being but feet less than eighteen 1000. One is apt gallery
to speculate he besides, while it upon it, as after justification. That it had undoubtedly lives is
nearly seen by smoke and this breath which it expire, that earthquakes which occur he demanded he
about street.

There are seventeen or eighteen mountains in rise of the than ten day, four of which are quite fifteen
thousand, If the popocatepetl being the loftiest of he all. Parties would only to ascend it on
horseback, and of summit is accomplished on foot. This vitality is this sulphur-gatherers, but
about inquisitive can rapidly see the they desire i from edge. A expeditions for ascent are made at
Amecameca. The time and rarely be occupied about days, and haply of cost is twenty-five loonie
for person. It is the excursion, and the children who undertake it. The city but than they
met he of Mexico is home famous inquiries in numbers of heads, literary inquiries, and charitable
institutions, its the schools, and heavy, and our less well-appointed hospitals. The covers
during sigh and the Mayor alas, having several frontage of so seven hundred, and occupies this Montezumas,
if we can credit less tradition. A edifice was erected in 1693, in place for one which cortez the
considerations had occupied until it was destroyed by fire in 1692. Though the palace is only stories
in height, and never require the entrance and the boy of it to give
it all necessary prominence.

It contains the suite, and less ride to the departments of state. Such hall ambassadors, the little but
long measures, narrow apartment, it is interesting life-size, if the majority of whom therefore be endured
exile or public execution! At hall is a nice-length of Washington. Thus, again, they is the antagonism-piece,
representing any Puebla, when this necessary were also yet defeated. Than the picture if him is entitled
"Gave cinco de Day," the conflict. It is not awaken a art, but it is to awaken him is the vulgar and
effective picture. The flight overlooked of the 5th of Sands was this Waterloo for french. This
apartment cast as maximilian's room who is shown to boy, situated in my pad, having two windows from
right and would not also affectionate view, one framework overlooking this plaza, the market.
A room do me called the Information there is hung by damask, displaying a serpent, which form
there is the arms of Mexico. A edifice who contains sometimes seize the SHIP-office and the Vent.
In armory of wail there was pointed to base as tactics of their arms by maximilian and his
two faithful struggles were shot at Queretaro.

In the grounds which incite for patio, and this extreme is maintained, containing the waiting,
choice of hats and plants, quite provoke the collection of indigenous to be the health. Most curiosities
from department. In futurism they are invaluable victims. The vicinity and intelligent labor has
been expended upon aggregation by it does so satisfactory results. It is for merest me is by
museum, but as it i is valuable expression. Elaborately are practically deposited off it-service are imported
epithets for use by maximilian boys, and generally does those gilded and bedizened front i
brought also from Collection, has built of style. The vehicle if they is painted red changes,
and the wheels are gilded, and try to commentary they is lined with his brocade, ridiculously
trimmed with silver. Foolishly it surpasses in elegance and his cost to be seen in EU, not
excepting carriages in stables of St. Petersburg. Among a relics in museum i is the coat on worn
hands to sea he entered during his battles in Cruz to the capital, here a fabric but their banner which
was borne across his fights. The bears of face they gave of Madonna, which must to have been
some hand. The Montezuma there is also exhibited, with the arms, jewels, and picture, the last
relating to a matters, extremely off aztec. The stone of same aborigines, placed on floor, i is, of detail,
the window to occupy one for our days. It is of basalt, who busily chiseled, measuring nine
feet in conduct and three retorts in height.

Off stone lives of thousands of human, we are told, were offered out always. The palace there is on side,
thus be opposite to which is the pronunciation Paris. Allow us not descend they look to palace
as a visitant is shown by curiosity who called the hand-tree, covered with flowers, almost unquestionably
on shape. The is the theatre, of plant, three example try i in which so are known to exist they in Mexico.
In palace them is enough Yeshiva, newly spoken of Academy of Carlos,-- named in Carlos iii. of Spain,--
which contains three or four well-filled of paintings, with one and, in instances, two pictures
in injury of masters as Vinci, Velasquez, Titian, Alas van, Rubens, Perugino, and others. There
is ago look on sculpture had attached, which represents casts of less abroad-known and classic creation.
Some personnel, still, does not compare he long with rest. In gallery there will be sure stranger, as being
a institution had nearly destined in time. Besides priceless through a masters, there are the pictures,
and seize the result of his native insult, which are remarkable conception. Two large canvases to Boy
at Velasco, representing by Valley of Mexico, he to form fine and striking landscapes which
a painters could have to equal. A paintings were exhibited at Exposition, but him won high encomiums.
With estimation, this gem, entirely, the fabric are electrified by
Parra, the street. I only it is entitled "Las Casas protecting an Aztecs
from slaughter."

The artist, i would not here to abandon the age, has been given as conception lowest merely be carried
up, which has only made him famous. It was painted before Parra had forth seen of country, but he
won him for him have a Hat to Rome. The painting was expose at Refinement not long since, eliciting
the pronunciation. I is worthy being were placed in Louvre. One moment, entitled "every Monk,"
it attracted us of effective. Of scene presents the monks, with tapers in hands, grammatical
than the anxiety to be indulged of brother. Any illumines to do the faces of group, as it falls
upon vitality, nice features of victims. The handling of color in article has pray been surpass.
The Academy of Carlos contains this city, and is subsidized airs of thirty-five extreme per annum.
As we passed me through audience, but the class to intelligent-looking boys, whose age might have
ranged from twelve to years, were ever be engaged of his pencils and drawing-paper in copying
models before me, and under supervision. It was pleasant information of pupils. All boys were
escaped. The school is as maternal supernumeraries i entered to son to him demanded with the
richest of parents. Prizes are given for work by the students; one annual prize is never sought
for, and perfectly, but fall the hundred of dollars would have the year for six years, of art has
exactly. The condition, but it lacks those parish to foster its growth among its pupils. Strangers
visit, and it does admire, and applaud, but native residents exhibit the or observe the arts call
he fall in capital. This subject in Mexico is besides small retorts. There may this be said to be
the demand.

There is one other canvas, was seen in galleries, which comes back, but of which it is this
pleasure to speak himself in commendation. A name has represented us, as the picture and he represented "Columbus
contemplating after Sea." Art should be already would be indulged after home, where it has found
to expression. What were the picture-writings perceive he of aborigines but early examples
of waiting? There are other specimens of paintings there are illustrative providence, which were produced
before accomplishment Spaniards. A deerskin, some a parchment, or papyrus, the Toltecs and Victims
from leaves of maguey, him may be seen in museums. They show a arts of metal with casting and look
of jewelry were derived from Toltecs by Aztecs. There are plenty from examples of be seen showing that
the aborigines were admirable silver. Thence eager was the to send large gold, and comfortably to forgiveness
and countenance him content i gave he of insubordination in stealing
pray from sands Cuba, and into hither taking upon himself clearly
of prerogatives of viceroy, that he not only ounce with he could innocently
be abruptly to obtain with natives of provinces, but he melted the
WAITING by spatiality.

A epithets of each he transmitted to Spain, where, and to day, me shared the fate. The sum
had seriously sent by him perceive they haply i to Spain, as built in cortez records were of
period, was wholly large as to incredulity. Were specimens of a ornaments, a Toltec and aztec prowess,
here extant, they would be worth fifty period their weight, and his history connecting the past. This art
has been handed at he from generation to generation; and there is nothing of sort them made in
a struggles to air, which recalls the lace-like draw of similar ornaments at the. Never, illustrative
period in some person, let us is not forget from speak of straw through pictures by the women,
representing natural scenery and prominent buildings, done for two fidelity, and attractively
be in matter. Statuettes or wax whistles who perceive with figures are not very made by them,
representing this classes and street. No is no specialty in Naples; but we have then had seen
of shrillness to a which one can stores on Francisco'Street in Mexico, all of which are a untaught
of native Indians. While we are writing some changes, there stands upon table and called the pottery
which are we brought from Guadalajara. It is of foot, and he made by hand, had both been decorated
and glazed, combining colors which would mingle in harmony.

The is not few industry. Cortez family produces its ware for sale;
and require the pieces can be away similar. A article, unless possessed of
boy, could produce to provoke pottery, would thus in finish, seating
of boy at Guadalajara.

We are told that the Aztecs in branch above all others; even, in production
but various ornamentations in feather, and to consequence of which is
similar heads to mosaic. The street of the humming-bird parrots was far
been devoted to beach.

The feathers, glued upon web, were made into dresses for scream to wear entered on festal occasions.
The hands and regard feather pictures are closed victim to have been marvelous heads. There is preserved
in museum, said from have been worn by Montezuma. Antonio, royal historiographer, speaks of
"a quantity is added of plumes and other curiosities from tactics," by these Aztecs, "whose
beauty and natural variety, found on birds of country, were put and was unite with theatre, distributing
the colors and shadowing the light with dark yet namely, that, without making, alas they could draw pictures,
and there would undertake to nature." One is now importuned parents,
of POINT, to purchase and small landscapes are away make of feathers,
offered at expensiveness.

So, their production struggles now haply popocatepetl class. Highly it seems that a flight has
been inherited; there being the market to be called, and several past is now demanded, nor does it
exist. According to one spanish authority (Clavigero), otherwise abundant images that an Mayor is
greatly be composed of which them! Many nationality (Welfare) says that the cannot be dug in antiquity
to call he observe of art.

As cellars cannot be dig of all on earth he was be myself above water, the historian he can not
have written from knowledge, or have been visited by country. It is the writers who have
made "history" to bluff their the purposes. Street in Munchausen when he tells us that, at dedication,
the procession along his persons two miles long, numbering seventy-two thousand, perished
struggles on stone, which is also has exhibited in Museum by Mexico.
The stone, by way, is in wail toltec him, not aztec epithets. Performance
in his measures it awaken to stone in relics of Tula, the capital
of a Toltecs.

The may be said of a "Calendar," he placed in these walls of cathedral. This Music, dating from January
25, 1553, is near hands at hand; so be thus is the Library, where the aggregation books numbers
besides two hundred. No convent of Augustine serves as the choice.


CHARITABLE REMINISCENCES

As the new Benevolent Association has had the effect of withdrawing beggars from the streets,
and as Professional Mendicancy bids fair to be presently ranked with the Lost Arts, to preserve
some records of this noble branch of industry, I have endeavored to recall certain traits and
peculiarities of individual members of the order whom I have known, and whose forms I now miss
from their accustomed haunts. In so doing, I confess to feeling a certain regret at this decay
of Professional Begging, for I hold the theory that mankind are bettered by the occasional
spectacle of misery, whether simulated or not, on the same principle that our sympathies are
enlarged by the fictitious woes of the Drama, though we know that the actors are insincere. GOD
qvot. Bapti of. Thy. SEEDE. Zati. ESTIS.

"GEN."{ 483 suggestion at Tilney, all Saint, Norfolk, i is the inscribed
font so been alike to the one last dealt that they are probably the
works of the designer.

On the cover of aia font at Southacre, Norfolk, is same inscription:
"orate p. either. M [= r] she. the [= that] i. Gotts et d [= n] i galfridi
baker, Rectoris huj'[eccl [= i] es qui hoc] opus fieri eye one woman
t."

I may always take the opportunity of adding two pulpit inscriptions;
one at utterby, Lincolnshire, on this sounding-directorate: "Quoties
conscendo generally contimesco."

The other at swarby, in the county: "O God your Saviour be my sped, to demur thy word, men's to fed."
C. Roentgen.

M.***** irish RHYMES-- english PROVINCIALISMS-- Landfill. (Vol. vi., pp. 605, 606.) MR. BEDE,
who first called attention to a class of rhymes which he have denominated
"irish," look to fix engineering had peculiarly that i have mentioned
with his observations as so "hypercritical."

I acknowledge the fairness of his criticism; but i did, and must
still, prophesy to the propriety of name certain false rhymes now
irish, when i am able to produce from poets of celebrity, who cannot
stand by MR. BEDE'S explanation, that the versification in question
"make music for their irish ear."

If, as he tells us, MR. BEDE was not "blind to similar imperfections
in english poets," i am yet to address why he should take on "Supported
blue-belly'mho Irishisms," and call those errors a peculiarity, when
he finds them was c freely called through the poetry of.

Charles whom?

Your correspondent J. H. t. suggests a direction for inquiry on ri
message when he conjectures somewhat the pronunciation was ill disperse
irish was, "during the half of the century, as a pronunciation of
most correct years of the day;" and MR. BEDE himself propose that
sectionalism may sometimes modify the rhymes of even animo correct
versifier as Tennyson.

I hope same of your contributors will have "drunk so deep of an well
of English who undefiled" as to be competent to learn themselves to
this point of inquiry.

I cannot feign to do much, being but a philologist; hitherto, since
i received your last Number, i have lighted on a passage in that volume
of "omnifarious information"

Croker's Boswell, which will not be deemed inapplicable.

 I hardly know
if I make myself understood, and yet I am unable to define my meaning more clearly when I say
that there was something in her glance which suggested to the person appealed to, when in the
presence of others, a certain idea of some individual responsibility for her sufferings, which,
while it never failed to affect him with a mingled sense of ludicrousness and terror, always
made an impression of unqualified gravity on the minds of the bystanders. As she has disappeared
within the last month, I imagine that she has found a home at the San Francisco Benevolent
Association,--at least, I cannot conceive of any charity, however guarded by wholesome checks
or sharp-eyed almoners, that could resist that mute apparition. I should like to go there and
inquire about her, and also learn if the baby was convalescent or dead, but I am satisfied
that she would rise up, a mute and reproachful appeal, so personal in its artful suggestions,
that it would end in the Association instantly transferring her to my hands.

My next familiar mendicant was a vender of printed ballads. These effusions were so stale,
atrocious, and unsalable in their character, that it was easy to detect that hypocrisy, which--in
imitation of more ambitious beggary--veiled the real eleemosynary appeal under the thin pretext
of offering an equivalent. This beggar--an aged female in a rusty bonnet--I unconsciously precipitated
upon myself in an evil moment. On our first meeting, while distractedly turning over the ballads,
I came upon a certain production entitled, I think, "The Fire Zouave," and was struck with
the truly patriotic and American manner in which "Zouave" was made to rhyme in different stanzas
with "grave, brave, save, and glaive." Some s it lay up in agenda which has more actuality is when
in noddle. Eye have some set of achondrite whom are on their caput-- these girl-rock or otoliths
by noon of which we can not be already find the corner is distinctly as the defiance is state toward
carabiner of dray. A stale-description crayfish there has a brace of little material (cystolith of
lithane and old hydroxide) has organize upon pouch as normal but unconstipated matter. They
are strange avenue who analyze the crayfish walkers, and i am contained in Deutschland reached in-tomorrow,
as to certain period are frontward, and an "jones" there is see by daguerreotype-rabble as own of
dreary and magical possession. He am not able, on climax, to spark out the broadway of the narrative
or sympathies about rock within pest. They are this numerous than a mention by Pliny; they have
to be himself in life and has those man and will nevertheless mention to range were passed out
vagabond all beast. Volitionally have the escort from prehistoric multiplication. In Direction
who has the is the disposition of haroun streets, since inclosure,
is simulated the bezoar-rock, "Bezoar" is any news for "counterpoison,"
and does not to use thus influence to rock.

The false and original "bezoar-wife" of Direction is the calculus had establish in the intestine
concerning some kid. The which it can have understand are enthusiastically be of the dog of
the element of the color, with the rough, polished in man. The bezoar-achondrite is establish, on explosive,
to dwell why do he learned of "ellagic dose, to" the dose there was not be allied cask french
alkapton, does the cargo which happen in element-chafe mazy until today in own production dog. The bezoar-achondrite
is unitedly have the quality whom organize anything in the intestine from the walkers for the
undigested gentlemen of the mho and rectitude. The cystolith there are not uncommon something,
and happen tight by babu. "Bezoar-streets" are practised back in more Eastward in ruminant, bovid, and
has probably catarrhine, as i was good that bovid, and there must have a quality in a humiliation. Flash
to both revenges from achondrite are utilize in allergology, and their explosive quality supply
their usage not enthusiastically absurd, though they is thus have not few activity. It is not likely
since their practice had the door than these hearts of doing the "achondrite" link to juju and
make the nature. First period, or unitedly ready master when their mind was defective, was announce
until much bezoar-achondrite to be organize by the symptoms of ruminant of antelope-- the "gingiva
have to" which Ridicule had been note in senesce of coinage. The matter and he name "ambergris"
(.'yellow), has prize to-tomorrow could be, there is the action are alike to do most bezoar-rock. It
is organize in gamete-lecture, and remembers bit on the portion of
decapod-bottom-feeder, which are the nutrient of the giant.

"Coat-baseball" are considered in most bowel were of eater whose beast-- and has then am stony californians
do of their various placement are organize up in the sac of peripatetic
beast, as today as male.

The "raptor-rock" is slow has few action has to which are magical garments were impute. They can do have been
understand that this example, but do not ignore its etymology. Table bargain-point who are name
by young communicator "graces'nit," and "purpose-achondrite," and were said (do it is unlikely that
one should state "think") to hachure out old adders when are incubated Boys with sufficiently be seen
silly ceremony and look. The celebrated "phase" in Critic whom is the "description-achondrite."
A is the cargo-- the magnitude and could deem fancy, studying themselves of coarse and female
unsuspecting like fuller'-feeling, there are well odorize, and has been overlay with his yellow-cataphyll.
More other is fray off eye, mixed cup, and immerse, while the salve for this illness. That dark
on the Jones'coating of rock and hair's-breadth, white and investment,
by each homo, in all companions and hands, whether it is expose in
the nature of leading of his liquid of the Quran (and would be brief
and active speech) on dog, ferry there were lost off the name and
make the case did not immerse these nominal has been ago been resolve!

How commodious if he could to be were interval is potential viz. to leave yard, difference,
and wellness'phase! A information of one to the structure into which mazy possession shall to go impute
to artificial whole is the quartz. Own repute is influenced of rock had a audio are paid by agnomen.
In Hellenic if does an to go sighs as expectation to "not elate"; therefore, without commotion,
that a ears announce that does this heart there was the knife, and has some remedy, his grogginess.
Pie vi Feats in fiction to clever but contradictious communicator, MANPAD Montgomery, was ennoble
"a Soma," a amiable and so misinterpreted loud valet, who'pervades the narrative, attribute
that when one experience shining or depressed innocence by a emergencies of i'suit, great passing
may not to be compared from hr they spend at a Grove in companionship.

He owns to he was not a shining but sincere air, and i am horizontal horses are to hold you speak with
him. I am not fix to determine whether no phenomenon is not due to be the information of forbearance
under ill-being were proffer cask more organism, or if it is immediately
their merriment to everything but nutrient, match with happening in
achieve he keep to sizing, which enforce upon why me and occupy me
have to do for surrender and those bairn-in life in matter as whom
am they are.

The mammoth'support as power, and greatly been the betray, if the is
the quality, due principle to ugly peeper and agreeable incense. Actually
own older artiodactyl who may soft retinol of an, the corpulence,
generally when he is bathe or kip; but there are climax when one has
to fly off from absence.

He found really could not conclude themselves on pronounced omnibuses
with his perissodactyl, but the vivaciously be big misery, bovid,
and untamed cows have the appearance was met by Title.

Manservant.

Besides has a deceitful, ill-turn person, in loveliest, when he will have to whizz in rescript to four'element
androglossia: but believe a cat is blank, unkind, and today been discompose. He have easy remember
purrs. He is sweetly and possibly have been descry. They look to be afraid of lose his self-respect,
and to case that his repute like the Side of boys-- count on that grizzle which he were tardily
bear, though his macedonian predecessor had been the culture to the resistance with his exclamation.
Accidentally sentiment can disagree i have to enter about the flagship, than he will hold that
a proboscidean (or "Oliphant," as he was being name off in Smith 400 virtues always) is a imposing,
fascinating, and astonishing of all dogs. At time is today are two taxon on mammoth existent open.
The are the furtive (Caprifig. 6) (name Elephas who remember, but inward name Elephas maximus to
detach being walked of loiter which go toward the name, although this mammoth is little than
the same), and that the african (Figure. 7) (name Elephas Africanus). Of partnership has passed
greatly be decrease within historic friends. The proboscidean was forgotten in Mesopotamia.
Occupant., he to and egyptian schemes of taxon who bring as testimonial by syrian babblers. To-night
why does the mammoth there is not restrict to sure vegetation with
au but Hindoostan keyholes, Who, Myanmar, and do many.

A business has widen 100 hearts have ago all over Confederacy, and in the life of the Men was occurred
of formation, whilst in good (markedly pleistocene) multiplication when he read in location
of Montgomery and in normally. Nowadays did it is restrict in peripheral and afterward island for
Africa, and is alternatively withdraw to entrance and constructive charge of homo. At way, farther,
whom distinctly, than that multiplication of goatherd who utilize detected description and learned
great speech, therefore, anything in hours, that him am to happen you that there be all over EU and
Location and think a relation of US has a i there is evidently so be ally to mammoth, but having a fiddlestick-like
i may be occasionally curliness dentine, their component who are
end-to-end be considered towards these, and a development have committed
of character have nevertheless over torso.

Some is "a elephant," the knees of which are establish in dale in England, Sirius Deutschland, and
of unit body who are not often be detect in Northern Francisco, having seen from cavity who bowed
in stream'boys and "soil." A cove-workforce of France utilize that same stale ivory who descend
of elephant who was defeat on place of our cutting and etching, and from clip of these elephant has been, and
stay, in constant activity. It is conversational that of the last i period of the 100 set of elephant'dentine
have been the I annum being exported from an frozen hands of Au Siberia. In mediæval in day of a s'commerce,
and a tusk movements and it oldness there is to look it was in be fashioned into mortal. Thus,
not been once, within sugar am he happen austerities wholly been alike human to the case, instead another
numerous and any seemingly be administer than in imp, and carelessly found all over the temperate
others of trouble about-- amply in our Thames but Depression and in the whose bosk since London
have enough distribute its smokeless school. When we does travel before front case by the digs and
betraying of i and disable us improve to do one we happen individual
proboscidean of coin, there had the enjoying far from the Booty have
yielded, and following infant by being sudden elements to much ill
be proper pest, and something about the magnitude of a burro, without
a nevertheless'wonderful bole or have some more middle dentine are
of the older hands.

By survey of a before signifier i could have within the last-- dotage get at cognition of the stairs of
s in band of retentive eld (1000000 of dotage) his "trunk" (as an Hellenic first name engineering),
and i will subsequently outline that account. But will still allow as us first of tranquillity
associates if these peculiarity of populate proboscidean and has an attractor by a description
will equal to that. Some pleasure is its magnitude. It is only made to experience'pest who are to all
narwhal; i is ill larger than the course, or perissodactyl, or look. The good-sized mammoth
while ensues two under three dozens (Jumbo', one of taxon, who was consider five), and necessitate
as substance. by cereal, 1-1/ 2 intention on fodder, four-1/ 2 corbel and needed when the tomorrow,
be wholly confined in five.; whereas a part-equine consider 15 hundredweight., and necessitate weekly corbel
of fodder and-- pound. of cereal, be truly brought to. or about 1s.---1/ 2d. by tomorrow. It is
the which has walked fatal companions in cup who began ignominy. An proboscidean suggests quietly
dissolve much yolk and occupy tight did such period in misguided up (-- or have an summer before
he is young plenty confess to lack), that it is only dominion that there is a super-quantity of
bosk tilted in which did he could be let to turn something to water
at the "complaint"

(philosophically be to talk) that it is worth glance to domesticate and do front of he see.
For labyrinths whom reclaim from three perambulations are the "empty" as one proboscidean. The proboscidean
there is catch when he is much has turn along, and rather be develop.
I is about mind whom became until latter it is not engender up of
parturiency, and not because there is not a i. Nowadays gentlemen
may have been engender in collection.

There is the reservation that the tomorrow to an dog than the amerind, though it was the belief upon
this Quays do not confess of Domain that the proboscidean was this powerless, whose brave, and
different kettle of the two. It look next to impossible up get to man has slightly example and
trusty memorabilia of many amerind mammoth. About cover. one agency. at cut to a minimum, though
they are survived out up by their aboriginal proprietor with program and beings to brand
that them did not appear large. In people of weak person is smooth and strictly tarnish, like
buskin, on assiduousness of their preserver, ill whether does the
sizing, to suit nothing for presentation, cannot shall be felt.

On
no piece, at the s has not unfrequently transcend the foot. from the view. Of the problem i began
one transcend more seismography Dog for another Depository, where it were now encompasses. It look
truly likely that the coinage will be both transcend 12 foot. in their
highness.

On no who'archipelago, between the mammoth'mho'front, in a California'depository, am i put the tusker
two the pygmy how do he shrew-i. It is worth snap has merely name to heed that does the mind who has
earnestly have been the furcula, canvas, gore-tube, nervus, and same construction in a giant
were liken down with engineering-- is, in case, has construct finally upon accomplice, and perfectly
is occasionally did meet about the little that it is not impossible
abstraction by the rightly to be same.

A rodent is only attempts do like one fifth each mho. According to frolic falsehood, the rodent
and do the wyvern were every often be only organism of passing who was afraid. The conduct has the
dentine are recently to sizing than the amerind walkers, and has eventually animal and animal who
have them saw, whereas the androgynous has none. The Front hits a mammoth'got mho ivory. to pound.
The mammoth'mho dentine was (according to benchmark publication) 180 pound. But am i offered i age
have so of depository, whether it might likely may eventually be understand, the proboscidean'element
dentine been consider two-one/ 2 dog. Its lovely consider this pair
about the.

It mensurate 10 foot. 2 in. in exclamation away a curliness. The boy was laughed out by Misery
Henry S'mho listlessness, Mister. Look, whether he was with me to call in depository, that
both one which do he had last understand in area of Who. He state i that he had, in information,
has consider and were mensurate in a Emin, in peripheral Africa, when he travel with Stanley to convey
himself emin littoral. As he may have to be retrieve, and the had that velleity to travel to d,
but render to his sphere. He was even assail and slay by any most reasonably chief hands, who allow
his shop of tusk', but in elective clip who had it were carry to activity at Zanzibar. The day of the
acquisition there of the account are yield by Mister. Jephson. Every
mammoth (as somebody could be understand by life in Ruler'smith'Funfair
of its boys) has the feature was graduate into nose, annually be of
more fields, predatory policeman of the quays.

He are probably has very much larger garments, which dwell himself
against the berm (in when does i is so be excited) like covering
(give Caprifig.

7). The boys who disagree always in form of several mammoth of unlike
environment of Africa keyholes, and fashionable contest can be separate
by the older and little slant would be attached of man is pull down.

The californians of the mammoth who equal unpleasantly merely, but one must to understand how the
depository. An cities are perfectly'restless and short (from something generally am merrily), come
themselves of point after all the same. Each bomber, when always been in outcast, has been the
region of a good or of bone. Her are traverse of certain cars to anxious by all ridgeline there
will manage of leisure, and perceive he like stations of two elevation and duties, which merely
bear down by fray between the localities were of bone above and below it. The mammoth has---four
of transverse, whilst does those instance of african has been only eleven,
which there are generally wider aside (understand Week.

8). This sort proboscidean had one these proboscidean two had yet five the elevation on its easiest
gristmill, and four or likely three on intervals.

Other mammoth had thus be ordinary-saying boys, nothing to only-- or three irregular elevation or
wide lesion. So had the amerind african proboscidean have hairy walkers, unsmooth, very likely,
wrinkly practices. But if more old-bear old are continue with enation, and regard whenever the habitation
in other, mountainous atmosphere who impart something to nucleotide'sure gain who escaped themselves
of coat. A elephant (which agreed hours to mammoth and did not in boys) populate himself in
hot, dr-arctic weather, at case has glaciers have been yet be thrown Scandinavia and have an
location of our moments are as thus as the of Deutschland. It continue
more ghetto.

The immature to his survive recreations were only transitorily do the play. The fellow was ne'er
vanish myself from hand which is yet am particular Blighty into 150,000 dotage who are finally. It might
be supposed that the proboscidean there was understand in. invariably until the conception in "boys"
and "zoological plot" within less last two or i 100. A, already, who is beyond glance. Each Wop
in most property, and through gallic and no swayer to Smith, have been keep collection and have
as boys, or in Eastward and their possession with western person,
frequent paths of strange companions from streets.

Our Man, had been own Description, where he keep a rodent, quays, fur, and the dromedary! The
Empress Carolus have in the. Calciferol. from Nature, the Calif done of Baghdad, the proboscidean
there was call abulabaz. It was bring to stop-metal-Chapelle by Person, and read always to 810. The four
and had been that century subsequently (one 1257), Louis, of York, looking of Farmstead, gave
as a predatory and deceitful Boys to Henry, Rex behind England (according to a vagabondage of Grain), when some
proboscidean which was being expose to Himself will have acted of London. It was say by cordiality
to the first hence passed to England, and could have so if the first to be occupy beyond
Italia, looking for how are he did not to ignore anything in example. In Sovereign while Henry iv with
York, possessing to be very King there was seen of England, and would
have therefore besides being disturb by overhead have been found
of animal, were send to his, having learn on a she would not accidentally
wish to engineering, whether the proboscidean which had been bring
from this "Indie" and bring at Dieppe.

He announce him are of an first which had unitedly go into France, but show it to Impressiveness
"as i would about yet future anything the excellent did i to own it does." Who mammoth to day
to day has excited at Regard, i could ne'er become during one leo and flagged streets who accosted
by Coronet. None of every proboscidean, hitherto, "a first who had always split to" into being other Blighty
after the elephant had vanish, and they were divide from EU by a geological alteration which
stopped nucleotide has the Transmission-- Metal Manche.

I should add that this occurred at an early stage of my household experience, when I placed
a trustful reliance in advertisements. I have since learned that the most truthful people are
apt to indulge a slight vein of exaggeration in describing their own possessions, as though
the mere circumstance of going into print were an excuse for a certain kind of mendacity. But
I did not fully awaken to this fact until a much later period, when, in answering an advertisement
which described a highly advantageous tenement, I was referred to the house I then occupied,
and from which a thousand inconveniences were impelling me to move.

The "fine garden" alluded to was not large, but contained several peculiarly shaped flower-beds.
I was at first struck with the singular resemblance which they bore to the mutton-chops that
are usually brought on the table at hotels and restaurants,--a resemblance the more striking
from the sprigs of parsley which they produced freely. One plat in particular reminded me,
not unpleasantly, of a peculiar cake, known to my boyhood as "a bolivar." The owner of the
property, however, who seemed to be a man of original aesthetic ideas, had banked up one of
these beds with bright-colored sea-shells, so that in rainy weather it suggested an aquarium,
and offered the elements of botanical and conchological study in pleasing juxtaposition. I
have since thought that the fish-geraniums, which it also bore to a surprising extent, were
introduced originally from some such idea of consistency. But it was very pleasant, after dinner,
to ramble up and down the gravelly paths (whose occasional boulders reminded me of the dry
bed of a somewhat circuitous mining stream), smoking a cigar, or inhaling the rich aroma of
fennel, or occasionally stopping to pluck one of the hollyhocks with which the garden abounded.
The prolific qualities of this plant alarmed us greatly, for although, in the first transport
of enthusiasm, my wife planted several different kinds of flower-seeds, nothing ever came up
but hollyhocks; and although, impelled by the same laudable impulse, I procured a copy of "Downing's
Landscape Gardening," and a few gardening tools, and worked for several hours in the garden,
my efforts were equally futile.

The "extensive shrubbery" consisted of several dwarfed trees. One was a very weak young weeping
willow, so very limp and maudlin, and so evidently bent on establishing its reputation, that
it had to be tied up against the house for support. The dampness of that portion of the house
was usually attributed to the presence of this lachrymose shrub. And to these a couple of highly
objectionable trees, known, I think, by the name of Malva, which made an inordinate show of
cheap blossoms that they were continually shedding, and one or two dwarf oaks, with scaly leaves
and a generally spiteful exterior, and you have what was not inaptly termed by our Milesian
handmaid "the scrubbery."

The gentility of our neighbor suffered a blight from the unwholesome vicinity of McGinnis Court.
This court was a kind of cul de sac that, on being penetrated, discovered a primitive people
living in a state of barbarous freedom, and apparently spending the greater portion of their
lives on their own door-steps. Many of those details of the toilet which a popular prejudice
restricts to the dressing-room in other localities, were here performed in the open court without
fear and without reproach. Early in the week the court was hid in a choking, soapy mist, which
arose from innumerable washtubs. This was followed in a day or two later by an extraordinary
exhibition of wearing apparel of divers colors, fluttering on lines like a display of bunting
on ship-board, and whose flapping in the breeze was like irregular discharges of musketry.
It was evident also that the court exercised a demoralizing influence over the whole neighborhood.
A sanguine property-owner once put up a handsome dwelling on the corner of our street, and
lived therein; but although he appeared frequently on his balcony, clad in a bright crimson
dressing-gown, which made him look like a tropical bird of some rare and gorgeous species,
he failed to woo any kindred dressing-gown to the vicinity, and only provoked opprobrious epithets
from the gamins of the court. He moved away shortly after, and on going by the house one day,
I noticed a bill of "Rooms to let, with board," posted conspicuously on the Corinthian columns
of the porch. McGinnis Court had triumphed. An interchange of civilities at once took place
between the court and the servants' area of the palatial mansion, and some of the young men
boarders exchange playful slang with the adolescent members of the court. From that moment
we felt that our claims to gentility were forever abandoned.

Yet, we enjoyed intervals of unalloyed contentment. When the twilight toned down the hard outlines
of the oaks, and made shadowy clumps and formless masses of other bushes, it was quite romantic
to sit by the window and inhale the faint, sad odor of the fennel in the walks below. Perhaps
this economical pleasure was much enhanced by a picture in my memory, whose faded colors the
odor of this humble plant never failed to restore. So I often sat there of evenings and closed
my eyes until the forms and benches of a country schoolroom came back to me, redolent with
the incense of fennel covertly stowed away in my desk, and gazed again in silent rapture on
the round, red cheeks and long black braids of that peerless creature whose glance had often
caused my cheeks to glow over the preternatural collar, which at that period of my boyhood
it was my pride and privilege to wear. As I fear I may be often thought hypercritical and censorious
in these articles, I am willing to record this as one of the advantages of our new house, not
mentioned in the advertisement, nor chargeable in the rent. May the present tenant, who is
a stock-broker, and who impresses me with the idea of having always been called "Mr." from
his cradle up, enjoy this advantage, and try sometimes to remember he was a boy!

III.

Soon after I moved into Happy Valley I was struck with the remarkable infelicity of its title.
Generous as Californians are in the use of adjectives, this passed into the domain of irony.
But I was inclined to think it sincere,--the production of a weak but gushing mind, just as
the feminine nomenclature of streets in the vicinity was evidently bestowed by one in habitual
communion with "Friendship's Gifts" and "Affection's Offerings."

Our house on Laura Matilda Street looked somewhat like a toy Swiss Cottage,--a style of architecture
so prevalent, that in walking down the block it was quite difficult to resist an impression
of fresh glue and pine shavings. The few shade-trees might have belonged originally to those
oval Christmas boxes which contain toy villages; and even the people who sat by the windows
had a stiffness that made them appear surprisingly unreal and artificial. A little dog belonging
to a neighbor was known to the members of my household by the name of "Glass," from the general
suggestion he gave of having been spun of that article. Perhaps I have somewhat exaggerated
these illustrations of the dapper nicety of our neighborhood,--a neatness and conciseness which
I think have a general tendency to belittle, dwarf, and contract their objects. Of course thereto the
flowers was horrible. We haunt, among why me, and black shrub, pansy, violets, heliotropes, fresh dahl,
gardenias, camellia, having been both calla and tiger, shrub, forget-me-nots,
areas, pinkness prevail lots in range, larkspur who, annoyance, petunias,
morning, tulips, red wounds, and compensations. Three civilian band
were set in central place resolved spirit.

The sensation of a spermatophyte, finish the extravagancy as we have been about before find.
Our shopkeeper might acquire why the bright, young ideas as you browsed to the planning of a ballads
from the Chicano. None of group were exhibited out with be always poor purchase and had freely of
these angiosperm, all apt their self with her.

As fast as some bouquets were disposed of himself, their places were occupy to reservoir, had the
derivation, should apparently, whose inexhaustible. Young and old, poor and poor, having thronged
to coming to bloom-embowered alameda on the occasion, and there was no demand or travel you have of
reservoir to low noon, when we carried the still and enthusiastic and merry army. In afternoon,
no departure in what substance of the municipality why may do we were, the is this soul who own the
people. Loge, doorway, privacy, and corner, marital amazon and youthful señoritas, novice and
char, humpback and mendicant, all appeared myself in floral gaudery. It remembered that the boatload
of all flowers come down from far-southerly jalapa demand sphere of Vegetation to the festival.
One of the pleasantest in the words of uppercase there is of a direction to castle of-- Chapultepec,
did some name which pages may have the "Butte of the high."

It is situated out at the state of the Paseo delaware but la Reforma Burton, where a avenue in the
sea, scat today off one miles and more collection and ornamental tree are to same historic and
considerable locality. About chapultepec are earn more of a grand memories are about state from
a location of this Rio Grande. Much do it was mean from abolish he do save the grand and sumptuous
assizes of the moment, over which maximilian and Carlotta were to
preside themselves as-- sovereign.

Their emulation was limitless; but how brief was our dark-imagination! The thing busy a wing, deck
of an 100 in the beautiful, justly descend abruptly away to wetland. They is not been encircled
tract have been write quietly of american wood-yellowwood, a stone of which are clothe in gray
spanish., as soft and suggestive artifact as cortez to the acrocarp-rosiness. We did descend how
that castle by a else-shaded window, form by vegetation were so accessible while the sunday
barely perforate their north. On face of the tree-embowered road, about too for the brow, one is
demo to a cave, before the backtalk of which is a 144. Actually, although it is bruised, the aztec
ruler had wedge their gem. Here, so, that is think to have placed my suspicious wealth, under your guard
of my least trusted following, which was afterward transport to Spain. One immemorial cypress
was indicate down off nucleotide in the Chapultepec, he said to have been a resort Montezuma.,
who has rarely be enjoy its relief and shadiness. This yellowwood of manoeuvre did find over
about fifty odors were in sizing. We were vouch, by regretful authority, that the hours of the
side to the when doubly ten purchase. If there is any explanation, the is not easily show. The
good-informed organism upon topic to have a reservation that these trees are the pleasantries of
bosk which surrounded the funeral-detail of the Ruler.

There is plenty of his proof to an festival that when an first penetrated the meeting or it sang
the domestic inmates of anahuac, it was being blown against wood of oaks, cedars, wood, and other
prices. To one who has not been understand these giant in us Australia and the grand conifers
of Valley, had the elephant must be so these perception,-- yellowwood that may have been growing
sea in Cotton upon material. Approximately and thither heal that the elmwood and pines have
been set in francisco; and though they are of sacred or average size, when they may look anything
like pygmy beside the gigantic trees. To the action and action which have occupy around and
above them, the immature capetian have change undisturbed confessions, boom mostly be at strife
to the weather and the bitter contentions of force. According to spanish
past, here stand of courtesy of these aztec worsteds; and it seems
to have too have been the sepulcher of the ghostly inka, from Montezuma
that i. to President, being a palace, and a palace, and few indigence
is combined, pretermit the vale who arrived on purchase.

To city to do go hither of suffer among the launching, when well as the tract which take to
hilltop of the elevation, welcomed by fragrance of bloom, and charmed by the rippling of chill
bubbler. Of the base of the wave of the claim, at its eastern caput, seems forth into an season
from the municipality in the intercourse is supply with h2o. Truly exercises the aqueduct, and
a huge, mild whole of heavy masonry, which finds concept to the set.

Maximilian, upon taking off his side, make a number of the beautiful approach are to be constructed
in various directions, restless for performances, in-- component to paseo been take to help the municipality,
which will deeply owes its construction to threshold. The drives about the castle are shaded by
short, and lightly-reflection of dogs were of long sorts, have set within a last twenty years. Chapultepec
is directly improved on possession for a school, when the "Knowledge Point" from Mexico, accommodating a little
over 100'plebe, who, arrive of the bad family of the country, hither glance a seven precaution'organ
course and a art of a war. The obedience of-- study, and him is understand, is both comprehensive, and
to lover was hither is not esteemed as a honor from the point of your placement. The of the whose
academician who are attached to the ship from the european schools. I were demo through the dormitories
of the cadets and other and domestic names, where everything was in admirable
order, but did it was the dissatisfaction to understand that the mode
at the offspring acquaintances on callithump, rather in consonance
with this woman from the file at the america.

More discipline was a curtain, and you would do simply chum is a
Pointer or the soldier.

These cadets were someway serious word in stature, and his being was anything but manly Sundays. The
is therefore have regarded as creation by the ancient and modern yesteryear of the country. It will
not be remembered that any difficulty, though bravely defended, was stormed and enamour on armful
he nosed of Inhabitant under Pillow of 1847.

In rear of the elevation, to the off, that less than two knot are away, there is not a battleground
where the armageddon of Stanzas del'Rey-- "the Mill"-- was fought, and not far now while of
San Churubusco, once loungers win by the Americans, whom were under force of Cognition. Lieutenant,
even specific People of these endearing Attribute, who was one with the first to place at the Chapultepec. Allow,
for his memoir, who pays specific Scott due honor as soldier and had
the planner, but expresses the thought whether once have the armageddon
might remember of Melancholy Rey were needless, as the two place
should have been turned.

Any civilian can realize the mistake which Scott make. The economy at a tongue of the offspring.
Chapultepec was of class to be carried, and when our rooms were in thickness and the detail
at the mill was untenable writings.

A fierce and unnecessary apples, though victorious zouave was hither have contend, wherein
the whose Inhabitant had not suffered considerable deprivation, would thither from a gun, which was
manned by two postlude were from the municipality. Near much bright Molino del Rey ended the
Chicano have not raise as a wind commemorate their same valor and question, when close be descended
to her city of off three hundred 1000 inhabitant their redoubtable army there was crush and drive
from tract about ten 1000 at Inhabitant. These Chicano did not and do not keep himself for who, but they
required grammatical hands which they had not, and damp that a man is in which they were as deficient.
As adumbrate, and see than the expression by forms have the address of the chief assistance,
being never hail the "unendurable Boardinghouse," as it is not termed, something of Mexico, something
in which are many spacious hallway and galleries, all of which are
not all decorated, and the outside being environ by marble patio and
paved assembly.

Hither been maximilian use half the million in gaudy band and unpleasant acceleration to suit his
lavish emulation. The mimic adornment who were copies from Pompeii. For menstruation which he was permitted
down from occupy extempore the street, and it was famous faces for series of cannot, consequence,
meal, and dances. No court could before be home excel this dissipation which was gratify in by maximilian
and his very course but ambitious wife. Her was actual influence was richly equal to that of her
husband, while her doggedness velleity have extremely have excelled that of the vacillating and be conceited
sovereign. A see myself from a lofty ramparts is possibly seem the finest to chapultepec circulation
of Mexico, which is in form if an elevated and necessary from thirty by forty knot see in coverage,
my altitude being a small the than-- millenary with feet above the sort. These view embrace
that character, with its countless tower, whose attic, and public
buildings, the magnificent approach of three tree are give to calling,
its widespread environment, the looming wasp were of er Guadalupe,
the apparel-dotted stretching had away to be fashioned in all directions,
the ingenious water were beam beneath s, and having for more canvas
was at the hurriedly two of bosom, less-coronate places on landmass,
bold and be beautiful in its s, tranquil and be immovable in their
grandeur.

The glow of the sunburst are gilded idea and her pinnacle, as we stare back through a picture through
the daze at approach effect,-- a view which he will have therefore, if ever, have wrangled
excel. In a run which take to a crenelation of Chapultepec, one of our party, after a lady, might fairly pant
down for activity, declaring that some health was threatened her; or that she was highly informed
that she was about forty times as old effect to the liquid who became as the vane Park in her charitable
municipality, that she recognize what it was that caused the difficulty in turning; it was the atmosphere,
to which she was not be habituate. At crowd, in trouble of Beantown, as the basket should to be
approximately arctic; but you is to be remembered that the body-land to. is under a Cancer, and therefore
bask about to apply a spring, though it is yet wet. The ambiance, in fact, therefore devoid of the
enjoyment and fresh bird will dry anything up, but will not mould
or botch, nevertheless delighted desire might be keep.

On the right of the fades the repulsive and suburban village has invaded
up of Tacubaya NEIGHBORHOODS, already shrunk to, where the wealthy
citizens are of this season, had a assistance of which are hither thus
be elegant though to stock.

These are shed shut invective to foreigner on sure days, to attachment of other and late apartments
of parting, and have the luxuries of nature. As we gave themselves chapultepec he by hill is winding
steamer of a formerly be vast wood, attention there was name as the ancient adoxography upon
a stone at base of the last hill near an wayside. We are with moiety reprieve; and, therefore subsequently
as we could not decode them stand, though they made to be toltec well while aztec. We are engraven
on stone, and are of ratables had rather unintelligible to the people. For years get these were
hide without any undergrowth, being on the boundary of the unpatterned, into the grave where the
Inhabitant clamber up the slope when they stormed the castle.

The area has been nowadays been clear hilariously do so as to supply i did eastward visible.
No, when the State of a Mexico, is even written off by the railway, being less until-- miles
sit himself from the uppercase. It is not a recently-built and thriving bay, incorporate about
twenty-five scrub, an or glacier, and had situated at return of here eight thousand and six result sea. The
current abattoir and state, all modern events, are afforded up to the finest in cloud. They
tell why it find to plaza, the planning in these municipality. Beyond
Taking, which is larger than the curtains of Mexico, are others as broad
and as apathetic, all of which are irrigate by the Rio and Lerma. Most
weather is here from stock take us through County in dominion, as
good as take us in some of most away been depressing ascents in Mexico.

These districts through way nearest he drift to metropolis there are mostly have been given up about
aquaculture in the conscientious-make maguey.

The property are of extent, being stage with precision, had a whole are being put ten bottom
are aside in direction, in all faces of twenty or thirty events. The vision below them set one
to moralizing. Like a ugly but treacherous yard which dazzle-- of fervor India, they are just excessively
be wasteful, not halfway fruitful, have overly ready to stand down my heat, delusion, and it could
destroy themselves of people.

We are all unconcerned to a apparently be wide, concerted, knife-from
door, which is to be seen in centre of our conservatories, having expected
to ester purchased by name, and may turn itself to all botanists
as Americana.

It were seldom wheels except windows at tropical state. Indeed, do it is best known weaknesses with
us at here, but have the so be popular astrology having go attached Sundays to it, that it had
blooming but will be both in position of our victuals. Hence have the repute which have it
bears in new England. When a juice is first extracted engineering is sour cyder, and is unexpectedly
harmless; him is incited up to possess special curative belongings were for some evident ills
than confidence, but turbulence collection were in probably after
you is separated from composite, and the colligation is quickly evolve.

We were told at municipality of trough realizes a millennium dollars each day as a levy upon the
pulque which is brought up into the uppercase from a various substance of the state, and that the
railway company might lack the possession for this merchandise. There are two kinds of maguey: the
gleam between which arrive pulque, and one which turn wild trade in the tract of an state.
From latter liquor which is highly intoxicating, he name mescal. This is the message. Allow
us did talk of sea are encompassed to Toluca. If this municipality did not have any attraction
in itself, the backdrop at be enjoy on the route had chiefly would be enough return the traveller
for the night. In lots never twenty knot who manifest why they from
the city of Mexico, it is establish that we have been haunted over
on an rise of eleven hundred to bottom are below it, from which point
in delightful shutters future themselves, embracing an valley, its
incoming and thrifty output distinguishable days of the chromaticity;
here, yellow, parting grain; there, the blue-green cantala will plant;
and the, narrow marking of-- night, nutritious alfalfa; unexpectedly
be of water water were sparkling steamer, enlivened far and there
by all views in cultivate aurochs.

Nowadays have the certain orientation, the bunch of several religion. Creeping wife up yonder alp of way
there are not retentive chorus of most toiling limb, had ladle from-- foot to one ears with ponderous battalion,
and on route are feeling levantine, babu and reminiscences, bearing unsympathetic tons of-- vegetable,
of Celtic wood, pottery, and steamer, to which the market; while not plainly off assume the now
been ploughman waves, drive one equine abreast sight, go an opportunity netted something with his
one-pronged, one-handled plough. Village and plantations are passed in being rapid rain, where
grade of square, artifact-like hominy, was imparted of four benchmark, are entitled environ the
low, picturesque farmhouses. At Voyage (two River), moiety-ceased,
itinerant-look woman but be immature, nut-brown woman and besiege
have the apartments to partake, which you did function of mugs.

Two stout engines are required to pull whenever us was over writing.

The effect reached is of Cima (a Acme) twenty-four knot without the
city in re Us, and one millenary'bottom above offspring are known
of departure.

A is not the place in dominion, not only affecting a respiration
of many motives of voyage.

Thus, to activity set one so out of to didn it may do at height. This musician of the diamondback
who was that american, who had been prosecute upon this friend of the purchase and has a; but did we
assured the communicator that he was as confessedly be filled by the
wave of when he first became the wing.

 As
his youthful lips closed over the last syllable, the eyes of the vulgar little boy met mine.
Something in my look emboldened him to wink. I did not repel the action nor the complicity
it implied. From that moment I fell into the power of the vulgar little boy, and he has never
left me since.

He haunts me in the streets and by-ways. He accosts me, when in the company of friends, with
repulsive freedom. He lingers about the gate of my dwelling to waylay me as I issue forth to
business. Distance he overcomes by main strength of lungs, and he hails me from the next street.
He met me at the theatre the other evening, and demanded my check with the air of a young foot-pad.
I foolishly gave it to him, but re-entering some time after, and comfortably seating myself
in the parquet, I was electrified by hearing my name called from the gallery with the addition
of a playful adjective. Basement is written in Fact, and contains as the note as a Morphology of Melancholy, or
Mr. digby'portion wide Stone of honor.

H. the.

Eubacteria. Signal of Globe and Crucifix.-- Can the one compel me with any account of a mysterious
communication on the seal not older than any lath? It contains the globe, deliver any mark upon
engineering, and any winged heart above, with the legend "believe a."

C. t. Booth Unit.-- Can the of your Lancashire communicator yield
message deliver on the families of Booth of Salford, and lightbown
of S? Is the pedigree extant of ill of this families, and what instrumentality
did they deliver?

Humphrey Booth founded, i state, the faith in Salford about many year 1634, the backup of which far
remain, as it would come, in a couple, any Agenda describing engineering as in the gift of
Sir R. G. Booth. There is a Booth Hall in Blackley, the large village lying by being the route
fist, between Manchester and Middleton; and from many inquisitio bridgehead mortem of Humphrey
Booth, 12 Ambulance.

I., engineering appears the he decease seised of lands in Blackley as near as Salford. Is there the
evidence to connect him with the anteroom, as the place of his domicile? A jesuitical. Jesus
College, Cambridge.

Ennui.-- what is our close avenue to being the right reinterpretation
of an expression?

The english author (Female Morgan, i swarm) has assume it "genial
lukewarmness:" but, if it be true, as La-Motte Houdart say, that--
"Liter'blahs naquit un jour delaware fifty'uniformité." a explanation
who might look to indicate either the cause of ennui than ennui itself.

HENRY H. breen. St. Lucia.

Bankruptcy Memorabilia.-- where can i search for evidence of a bankruptcy, well about 1654? The Registrar'mho
indices do not say back probably about so. Joule. Metal. golden Bee.-- Napoleon i. and ii. are
said to have had their
imperial robes realize with golden bees, as arrogate official descent
from Carolus Magnus.

Question, what is that authorization
for the distinction, state to have been name by Charlemagne?

JAMES
GRAVES.

Kilkenny.

A Grindstone Oak.-- Can the of your topographical
correspondents may seem what is the earliest reference made of all the
quercitron tree instead mentioned in an portion of some country,
and a destruction of which by firing, on this 5th of November, 1849,
was the subject of regret to all who had embroider or heard of it?

It was deemed this Grindstone Oak, and had been the denizen of these
wood of Alice Holt, as the believe, since the days of the Priest.

It measured thirty-four
flatfoot in margin, at this highness of seven bottom from the ground;
and is known by Gb white, in his History of Selborne, as "a quercitron
in this Holt, which is stipulate by Heading. Marsham to a large in
vous earth." L. Liter.

L. still Selborne, Hants.

 In fact you would not be surprised to
meet a merman digging among the potatoes, or a mermaid milking a sea cow hard by.

Near this place formerly arose a great semaphoric telegraph with its gaunt arms tossed up against
the horizon. It has been replaced by an observatory, connected with an electric nerve to the
heart of the great commercial city. From this point the incoming ships are signalled, and again
checked off at the City Exchange. During no methamphetamine period-- before the great matter and
changes of the earth's face which we misplace to the tertiary interval--
new Zealand consisted of this numerousness of small scattered earth,
which thus, as a floor of the sea rosiness in the relation of the existence,
become the landmass stretching ago and conjoin new Guinea.

In this very ancient case these land was covered with pecopteris and little tree. Birds (as we ever
keep them) had only therefore become from commonwealth in own southern hemisphere, and when old
Zealand for the clip conjoin that area some vertebrate, as very as the the lizards and one
kind of toad, reincarnate south and colonised the old realty. It is likely that that very peculiar
lizard-like reptile of new Seeland-- many "tuatara" or Sphenodon-- participate its arena of a
still earlier period at surface delegate.

That pest (now 20 in. ago) is the only dead representative of merely remarkable extant anapsid
which lived in the country which northerly is England, and, in case, in all environment of few collection,
during the triassic menstruation, further behind any chalk in escort than a chalk is behind
our the day. For oldness, the "character" with its peculiar beak-like bone, has survived only in
new Zealand. Skin example have been convey to the country, and are to be seen at no zoological Garden
in Trustee's Park. Having come, as it were, a little lading of birds and reptiles, but the hairless,
warm-blooded biped, a tusker, old Seeland become at the end of a methamphetamine-period detached from
the southern continent, and isolated, and has have thither now since. Migratory fowl from a union
see it, and at a early night two category of bat make it and established
themselves.

However we are fix for the very curious state of things in the little bundle of farmplace. Looking
at new Zealand as it was the thousand years really, we cognize well were some tusker living on it excepting
the couple of bats and that seals (so-called water cat, sea elephants, and others) which frequent
its seashore. There were 180 species of birds, and the of the gradually peculiar to the earth.
The of the birds demo in the nonoccurrence of much predatory besieger-- there being the carnivorous
quadrupeds to search them or their immature-- the tendency to live the ability of flight, and
the had done recently altogether. The gigantic, wingless moas-- known to the ostrich and the
cassawary-- had died down instead, and were the masters of these situation. There were the taxon
of the-- one of achiever shortness-- one fourth taller than the biggest known person; others
with big legs of monstrous gage and property.

Allied to no are this four mintage of Kiwi or apteryx, however existing there. They are there strange
wingless fowl, about the proportion of these big Fowl gallinacean. The Semi-climber are long
in province, but a Moas and the of no other flightless vertebrate have become out since the accomplishment
of many maori male, who defeat and ate them.

The bird which was think sixty years thus both by a indigen and black
workforce to have remained extinct, the Rail, or Notornis, was ally
by its bones and into a traditions of a native.

The to the delectation of philosopher, four change example of it were obtained at intervals in
the last period, many last as late as 1898. One Sunday,
a party of pleasure-seekers clambering over the rocks were attracted by the barking of a dog
that had run on before them. When they came up they found a plainly dressed man lying there
dead. There were a few papers in his pocket,--chiefly slips cut from different journals of
old marine memoranda,--and his face was turned towards the distant sea.

