 My Cabbage has a
fresh, pretty voice, you want to grant her asylum, if they occur and to sing songs ready.
I, not knowing what I want to live, doorman at same establishment. Seven weeks of colorful
parades dressed-up the scum of humanity past me, my eyes are full of smiling faces of misery, my
ears full herztötendem of noise, and the sweet perfume of vice, must breathe I make I need for
strong spirits. It drives me away until I and the tender lovely girl that I brought here,
wither and decay see.

Let me not say where am I been, at what price I the miserable had acquired piece of bread. I think
of the doors of which I stood, the rooms in which I lived in the beds where I'm located, often
sleepless, and often happily entombed bitter in a night, to wake up from the was, I think because
of what hands I Wage received at the desperate plague, the fatigue, to the hopeless Hinfließen
the many days on the nerve-racking battle against villainy of all kinds, against the deceit,
which enriches the poor, to deafness, the victims of the dumb, is against its own Weakness, not so
much as failure is the lack of restraint and saving symptoms; I think the fact that I am grudgingly
lattice of a festive lighting parks leaning fingers clung to the bars like an animal does
in the cage, that finally hatred, unspeakable hatred I grew up and in my twenty years equals
destroyed a leprosy - I think again about I will not believe that I'm the man who has lived it,
I sitting here and describes it as something distant.

Yes, I hated the people with a mixed feeling of nihilism and fear.

These millions, their efforts, their parts, their rivalry, their raging appetites - they crushed me.
It seemed to me that all routes are busy and that I find no way in conflict. It seemed as if
there was no room for me in the world and me as if the abundance of things would it were buried
alive. I had no room and no air, I can put it otherwise, so I was only under the law of inertia
after a certain Direction towards work. And not just the people I hated, but also all their facilities,
Full choking me and the penalty of social order, the state, the church, the school, the newspapers,
even books. This sounds awful enough, imagine further, would be an evil, my car seemed invariably
to lead to deep, I was a lost Human, and what still in power and natural temperament was in
me, as it rotted down, poisoned by the breath of my subterranean existence.

This word must be understood not only figuratively. I was then succeeded me back my to approach
real profession, I had the body of a second engineer on one of the
small Thames steamer.

The service prevented me, during the day, the light from the upper world to see, and the evening
as most of the night I spent in a tavern in the East India Docks. I know at that time a young
Russians and I learned it connected. His name was Rachotinsky. He had been a doctor and had five
years in exile lived at Lake Baikal. His father had died in the castle key, two sisters and
a Brother had found the Siberian death. His mood was dark, his mind was of a Vengeance fulfilled,
the excess heat that paralyzed him and took me also. I knew nothing of his plans, he was concealed in
spite of all the eloquence he had me to a Indeed encouraged, I would have sacrificed without
hesitation. In that tavern, where we met, He often came together with some of his countrymen,
and if they spoke Russian to each other, I noticed on their faces that they threshed straw is
not empty but full of corn. A In the evening it happened that one of the Russian refugees was
a young woman whose perfect Beauty in this dirty hovel seemed as if a glowing body by a deep
darkness hovers. Such a mixture of white and black, of majesty and despair, of force and breathless
Gehetztsein I had not seen in any face. I knew the Woman as a workhorse, and I knew the girl,
I thought I knew what a luxury lady But the heroine and the companion of heroes, the victims Merry,
their blood shed for a Idea, which I knew nothing. I noticed that the beautiful creature groping
in the Space occurred. We learned that she was blind. Natalie Feodorovna had been blinded. She had
one of the treacherous rulers and oppressors of their country killed by a gun shot. They had
been mistreated in prison, a drunken officer she had tried to dishonor and her furious resistance
had the fiend so fierce that he carried two of his creatures deprive of sight left. The crime
became known in the small Gouvermentsstadt, a general revolt broke out, devoted friends freed
the girl, and they succeeded them across the border. A few hours they had arrived in England,
but the Police had her on the verses, the Russian government demanded them back under the claim that
their act was devoid of political motive and was nothing more than an act of jealousy. All this
I learned only in fragments, and the Russians were very excited, and while Natalie Feodorovna as
a bodyguard surrounded showed their faces extreme determination. Rachotinsky, by pointing out
some suspicious characters, ordered them not to disclose, but it happened now something very strange.
In a smoky corner of the tavern were two men, by their appearance and their faces had brought
my attention long ago. Their Appeared to be ragged clothes, also differed in their demeanor, they
are nothing of the poverty figures, which they were accustomed to see here, but something about them,
the view perhaps, or a gesture, and not least a noble and spiritual expression of the trains announced
People from an alien world. And so it was. One of the two men went in the circle around Natalie Fedorovna
Rachotinsky and talked in French. A deep consternation in the pursuit of dialogue and a deep surprise
painted in Face of the Russians. He turned to his fellow sufferers, which acted against his Words
silent and looked to the ground. Natalie Fedorovna folded his hands and lowered his head. At
that moment I her beauty seemed so adorable, their suffering beyond all measure shocking that
I felt my heart swell, so my heart ached like an ulcer. I jumped up, I stepped to her side, all
looking at me, my feelings have been such that they are not able to remain hidden, because I noticed
a lot of good will to recollecting faces, and Rachotinsky put his arm around my shoulder and
spoke with the stranger continued. Meanwhile also the companion of the unknowns had gone to
the group, and when I looked closer, I saw immediately that his suit was just a disguise, and
that through this veil of poverty an innate nobility and certain unmistakable allure the man of
state could not be concealed.

I will tell frankly what to say about these two men in my Life played such an important role.
Sir Allan and his friend Trevanion Mirmell were people of great wealth and of old families.
Both were surrounded by a lavish luxury grew up and their education was more than worldly, she was
sublime art is found such a sensitive and enlightened at the same time, so extensive and also
winged creatures of the mind almost exclusively in young Englishmen of rank, as if in this nation
as a whole so rigid, so limited, so full of prejudice and so devoid of imagination shows the
individual Could elect to take a more bewunderungswerteren momentum. Allan Mirmell, in the middle
Thirty of standing was older by twelve years as Trevanion.

He was rushed through life with a desire that nothing disdained, nothing despised. He had in
all the excesses indulged, to which the gold, the will and passion. He had wasted, courage wasted,
wasted love, squandered his gifts. He had committed all the evil deeds, the recklessness, the thoughts
and conscience, pride, robbery, greed, vanity and Home Anarchy able to commit. He was not lucky
stranger, nor no vice, no holy peace; Loyalty he had never known. In a frenzy he had suddenly
become tired. From fatigue was Disgust, a disgust to describe the dare I, the kingdom of heaven,
and spat on in the human world saw a cesspool, and the natural band broke with scorn, initial feelings
of denial with cold, each decomposed serenity, all wanted to burn something, turned to ashes,
turning away from Day and the night was looking for, the loneliness and the horror. In this
frame of mind he had the young Trevanion found; unfortunate coincidence, the crush on the friend
friend willing. Trevanion was delicate, almost ethereal. He was the son of a musician, his
mother had been a duchess. He had lived in a thin air, without wind. Able to each Include disease,
the miasma a prey, any content, because his mind was a blank Vessel that was waiting for the carrier,
it was only the Mirmell escorting shadows and the touching Response from all accusations and condemnations.

Strange
how these two on the level of existence, came down to us that a similar Despite a similar pain,
a similar hatred where there is already for other reasons, trapped. There plenty and satiety, this need,
and a dull mood of renunciation, the endpoints the social world. Tickling sensation and desire to
push the self-humiliation these rich and rich young people frequently to the scenes of vice
and misery, one finds Opium in pubs and in the criminal asylums, and they know very well that
in many cases risk their lives unless they are masters of disguise and outer transformation.
But the only danger is that they intoxicated. By a visit to the tavern to the red Allan Mirmells
cat had been brought to attention Rachotinsky, and he had inquiries be put forward, was later
read by him. Night after night he watched him and his Companions. The sight of these downtrodden
and outcasts, each of which freedom, wealth, Enjoyment of life and future had given up for an idea
was, he alleged, and motivation.

The striking Release Natalie Fedorownas that, by its nature as by the reception they found
all Happened had guessed, induced him to make himself known to him the offer and Rachotinsky to
ask to receive the persecuted and suffering girl in his house, where no one would think to
look for them. Rachotinsky and his friends thought about the proposal, which was accepted on
the condition that accompany Rachotinsky himself and Natalie Fedorovna first was to stay with
her.

About the immediately following events, I am informed only bad, how TOOK PLACE in the suicide
Fedorownas Natalie, I can not say. Rachotinsky had me two or three times to their country houses Mirmells
taken, and I had seen them. The splendor and the luxury of that house made no impression on
me, I only saw her, day and Night she was my only thought. One of the Russians said that the boy
she loved Trevanion have; Rachotinsky confessed to me that Trevanion practiced voice a disastrous
spell on them had, all her past, her sorrow, her defilement, their blindness to painfully conscious
brought. But what had proceeded, I could not learn. The only certainty is that after the disaster,
the residence of the young Russian woman in the house Mirmells known and that by his social
situation was untenable. Natalie looked at me Fedorownas Devastating death, I gave up my service
and let me float like a piece of wood in the water. One day Rachotinsky to me and asked me if
I wanted to leave the country.

Mirmell, Trevanion and he had decided to turn back the cultural world, and if I would be interested
in to escape from my degrading existence that all he needed my consent. "Went past the World-weary
in a monastery, "he said," we will seek a solitude where nature itself as a bulwark against the
destructive, insolent and noisy son of this earth built added. We want to experience death,
life in death and know life, to build God in our cherish, and never mind about human desire. Our
resignation will be permanent, our Intent as the inviolable vows at an altar. I woo thee for
our union, this Right I have insisted to me, and I see nothing that could save you otherwise. "

I
had the same opinion. Without close to sources of help, from starvation, I opened these words
whose mysterious sense I initially neglected to exist but the possibility. Mirmells Ship, a
stately yacht was in the port of Tilbury. I went there on foot. Rachotinsky, who was waiting
for me in a pub, took me on board and Mirmell Allan. This greeted me in silence, and then remarked
to Rachotinsky that he would ensure that I suffer from lack nothing. The next day cleared the
ship to anchor, and it started our strange Journey whose destination was not known to me. Spared
from the seasickness, I was in a different way sick, and I still do not know under what illness
I suffered through so many weeks. Maybe the rest was to blame, that I enjoyed. It happens so,
that people who are a whole Life have gone through, suddenly die when stop trouble and worry.
I was and looked into the air. Sometimes I felt that I was crying. Often sat and Rachotinsky Mirmell
next to me, be it that I was laid on the deck in the sun or in bad Weather in space. Power of his
mystical and penetrating mind had unlimited Rachotinsky Influence on Mirmell won. Allan Mirmell
had one of the most interesting men's faces, I have ever seen.

His features were thin and of the utmost delicacy, and his skin was smooth and white as email,
chin high, her lips thin as squeezed fruit, and the all too clear Eyes never met the intuitive view,
although not to the side departed, they received the look and sucked on him. This was oppressive. Trevanion
was rare. He was always in his room, read or wrote. Rachotinsky cast out with him geological
studies Books and studies using the deep-sea plankton net, which we had on board. Once stood
Trevanion in the moonlight on the pilot house and stared motionless on the sea. His boyish figure grabbed
me. But neither he nor Mirmell I could approach without a slavish impulse; and this remains my
proletarian past, I dragged a long time. Only common ailments comradely feelings aroused.

We were driven through the tropical seas and through the southern part of the Atlantic Ocean,
then west, long west, then south again. We walked on the edge of the ice region Located on Macquarie
Island, but Mirmells intention to establish a branch there, was by the presence of some vessels
thwarted because Mirmell Rachotinsky and were willing humanity to escape. We studied their existence
but not yet the Nimrod Island, is assured, and when this was unsuccessful, we headed in the Ross
Sea. Icebergs floated on the water, and one day the sea was covered by pack ice. It opened
narrow Streets where the steamer had free travel. We crossed the seventy-fifth degree and soon
saw on all sides of land, the mysterious continent of Antarctica. I was at that time become well
again. I never tired of looking at this new world, the always consistent day I was astonished
because it was mid-December, the summer of that latitude, and the sun was not. Meanwhile, the
crew began to murmur, and the master and the first mate dared to point out the dangers to a vessel
equipped for such excursions not suitable, was threatened by the ice. Mirmell remained deaf to their
ideas. It was in him a rage and lethargy, which disregarded all practical measures. He was like
the knight of the old legend, who is preparing to ride to hell silent and defiant. That he
unconsciously the hypnotic influence Rachotinskys subject is, no
doubt, this came to life; his eyes seemed to triumph, when he measured
the distance that separated him from all that it had once tied up.

I myself was addicted to him. I thought of his words: we want death experience, death and life
to build God in our soul. The will to destruction made me shudder, and my mind began to strive
toward.

We headed into a wide bay, where we store the solid ice halt, and waited, because we the coast hoping
to get closer. On the second day the storm blew the frozen lake, and We drove close to the coast.
Mirmell Rachotinsky and went ashore and searched a place to build a hut and a storage building.
It turned out that the ship loaded with all the needs for a year-long stay in inaccessible Eisöde
was.
 As Erdmann bent and touched his lips with her mouth, and no sooner had
this happened, Caroline awoke and looked fully close the face in front of him ghostly frights.
This term, the unexpected return of their consciousness, be strange secret starting, suspicion,
as if to catch him and the woman caught only do all of it heated, he appeared to be mocked, duped
and betrayed, he grabbed her by the hair and pulled her out of bed, he dragged the wailing
through the halls, and corridors the house he had them, pressed against the wall, panting in the
dark and hit a cross. Caroline but, shuddering with horror, got up and ran to the door of the house,
ran into the yard where the dogs struck, and then she ran, as far as their feet they wore. As
made to Count Erdmann and pursued them in the darkness, coupled the dogs go, and found their trail,
and when he saw them in his shirt, as she was, lying unconscious next to a Kotlache, He crouched
down and remained motionless in, until the morning dawned, he was them back into the house.
It warmed her blood, her hair curled tenderly around his neck, her arms hung limp, her heart
was beating like a warning voice against his, that of darkness, full of error and of incomprehensible
pain was.

A few weeks later, sat by the brother of the Countess of divorce, Erdmann pretended he was
satisfied with it, and the Court of Opole, it confirmed because of irreconcilable enmity, "Including
what" pending. Until her death, the Countess Caroline lived as a nun, and it is lovely and wistful,
yet today's day in the castle of Carolath picture to see. Erdmann Promnitz but was on the
hour when separated, the Countess of him more restless and wild. It flatterers around him, Feast,
and lurking parasites Heirs. All the money from a pure income was barely sufficient for the
wastes was hold, and one of his cousins ​​asked him what he was doing, he replied, sharply
chanted: Eating, drinking, sleeping, seeing and hearing "terrible dreams shattered his mind;. Was
It regrets that einfraß so deep that he the worm, as it felt in the depths of the chest? When
they one morning M. de Wrechen found dead in his bed - he had one of the board half the fish
was taken to his room, woke up hungry at night, had it not Light consumed and was choking on
a fish bone, - as the Count decided to move to the stranger, where he be a stranger and everyone
was able to remain externally with honor. For a life pension of twelve thousand Thalers he forgave
all his property to gender related, and after a castle in the basement Sorau of buried treasure of a
hundred thousand guilders to be related to him, he pulled into the wide World in the Lord's prison,
he said.

At Halle, he saw his charge again, those cosmic Hans, he of the Paris vice Pfuhl had saved and who had
become a very learned young man, in which Promnitzsche the money once found fertile ground.
Cosmic Hans was on his patron, send him to England to the great astronomer Herschel. This granted
the Earl, paid him out of plenty and promised that he him after his return to the castle tower Peter
wanted to set up an observatory forest, for the good Peter forest he had as a reserve insisted,
with an open table, six dishes for lunch, free carriage and freedom fighter.
 

"You guessed it," replied the other, "and besides, I'm your friend. Add your accident not to me but
an unfortunate confusion of the circumstances, and be assured that zuruecksegelst you with the
first ship to your country. Now go back inside to my Women relate to it by the Arab professor
and what you know. The herring and the salad will I send the doctor, but you stay for your stay
in my palace. "

So said the man, the emperor was; Almansor but fell down before him, kissed his hand and begged
his pardon, that he had not recognized him, and he had certainly
not seen him, that he was emperor.

"You're right," replied the other, laughing, "if one is only a few
days the Emperor, it can be have not written on the forehead.

"So he spoke and motioned him to leave.

Since that day Almansor lived happily and joyfully.

Arab professor, from which he told the emperor, he could still visit a few times the doctor
but he no longer saw.

After a few weeks he left the emperor to call himself and he announced that a ship lying at anchor,
with whom he send him to Egypt may. Almansor was beside himself with joy; few days were sufficient
to equip him, and with a heart full of richly laden with treasures and gifts, and thanksgiving,
he traveled by the emperor from the sea and sailed on.

But Allah wanted to examine him longer wanted to fortify his courage in adversity even longer
and let him not see the coast of his homeland. Another Frankish people who British brought,
then war with the emperor on the lake. They took all the ships away that could defeat them,
and so it was that on the sixth day of the trip the ship on which was located Almansor, surrounded
and shelled by British ships was, it had arise, and the whole team
was brought to a smaller vessel with the another sailed.

But on the lake, it is no less uncertain than in the desert, where suddenly the robbers fall
on and kill and plunder the caravans. A caper Tunis fell over the little ship that had separated
the storm of the bigger ships, and - it was taken and led all team to Algiers and sold.

Almansor was not in such harsh slavery as the Christians, because he is a rechtglaeubiger Musselman
was yet now all hope was gone, the home and the father again. There he lived with a wealthy
man five years and had to pour the flowers and build the garden. As the rich man died without
heirs close, his possessions were broken up; his slaves, shared and
Almansor fell into the hands of a slave agent. This upgraded at this
time from a ship to sell his slaves otherwise running expensive. Coincidence
wanted me to himself was a slave to those dealers and on the same
ship came, where Almansor was. She was no longer capable of a resolution. Where do they handle,
Shame, where they looked rubbish. Fate of many people from their evil demon is only striped;
succumb once perhaps in an hour of possession or abandonment by God to the anti-mind, the nightmare
of her soul, but she, she forged with him and all in his power.

And so she remained silent because it still far behind the eye shone, she enticed the Face, which
she delighted. Did she give away the secret, it was empty even as the tape, had disappeared from
the gems, so that was defiled and became a lie. It happened but that she spoke of it in his sleep.
Riccardo overheard it. Mysterious jealousy raged in his chest. It was as if he wanted to tear
apart her to find out. Night after night he woke from his sleep and wanted to know. They were not
around this time more in Paris, they lived in a small villa on the coast of Brittany, near
a Port. And once he took her in a boat on the sea, there came a storm, they were abortion, they
seemed lost. The clouds congested almost on their heads, the spray splashed on them, Riccardo had
pulled the oars into the boat, his drenched hair hung over the face and in silence, he fixed
his eyes on Frank. Death before his eyes dull, and involuntarily, she said: "There is a picture
of you, I've seen before I yourself saw, if you could see it, you would understand everything,
my life, and perhaps yours, and this hour, and what is to happen at this hour. "And in a few words
reported it yet, how and where they saw the image first, and he was close to her bent his
ear to her mouth so that the roar of the waves do not devour her voice. He shook his head and
laughed scornfully, then he reached back to the helm and worked with great force and have been
a fishing boat in sight, approached him slowly, fishermen threw a rope across, and after untold
efforts at length they reached the port.

The next morning, Riccardo was gone. The Italian servant said he had
left. Franziska was pleased not to peace.

She walked restlessly through the rooms and looked from the Balconies on the sea. There were people
who called her name and to Riccardo wished to speak. He had given no orders. The maid, the cook
and the gardener left the house because Riccardo had denounced them, and only up to a nearby
futures paid. Frank was alone. The owner of the villa you wrote that she left the home after
Course, have to clear three days.
 It
was an erotic madness that impelled us. With horror I confess that we are jealous each other were.
The following paint the splendor of the Aurora unfolded always glorious. In a powerful arc light
flared up and reached the zenith in the constellation of the centaur its greatest intensity. Every
night we went to see the Aurora; silence masked and marched all his way. But all too often
remained black and only the sky the distant fire of the volcano glowed rauchverdüstert. Sometimes
stand in clouds of pure height Moon as a magnesium lamp. The whole landscape looked like a
lunar landscape. I felt so unearthly, so beside myself, so close the last frontiers! Orion and
Sirius wonderful shot to a large circle. In the seventh night we saw the Aurora for the third
time. It was milder weather, and the vision was in stark outline. We wandered the panting
Ascended glaciers, Trevanion all advance. He seemed to have the essence of a somnambulist. It
was during this time so internalized that his smile like a fleeting stay between Sleep and death
worked. In his eyes lived a worship, a transcendent passion, that regard it was too painful. Even
in the dark nights he looked far out on the treacherous back of the glacier, once I heard him loud
and with shaking Drown out screaming, and he shouted at her. He longed for the embrace of
the Ice Maiden, and the Morning, he said to me, if not blind, would be Henry, they would find
a way that I could get to her. Allan Mirmell hit upon a disturbing way, as if a Gift scavenging
in it. He groped his way as an old man. Light, light, he muttered often when he made the Emporschrak
sleep. The strenuous march to the residence of the accused pale Aurora Finally, it ruled on the
couch. To my horror I noticed also Rachotinsky all displaying a morbid melancholy. For hours
he crouched on his knees praying. He did not wash everything, dirt, soot and debris covered
him. What I maintained, I can say is difficult. There was hope in me. This hope grew stronger
day by day. And it was something more than hope, it was longing. Whenever I saw the Aurora,
I walked through a hall of columns of ice, greeted me at the end of the busy world. The Blind, the
unattainable, the delicate structures of radiation and crystal taught me that I I should love yourself,
me man, me in the world. The beam arc whose one end of which she wore, seemed like a masterly
curved bridge the abyss of darkness across the building. Since it was clear to me in that I
wanted to build bridges across chasms, true, yes, actual bridges. And as I walked in Weglosen,
the blinding light contrary, grew in me the desire to create ways for that I previously no
way for me any more had that was because I made none. I knew now. Ways to overcome the Inertia,
the more ways the more movement, more desire, more conversion. On the Pilgrimage to the Aurora
I've learned to love the idea of ​​bridges and roads, and this saved ruin me before.

On the last night before the rising of the sun I saw for the last Trevanion. Twilight was on
the ice. The glacier twitched, cramping zerbogen within him his cold case. Even the rumbling
volcano and the Schwefelfumarolen at the summit were of yellow fumes moved. Trevanion was at my side,
as the southern lights flared up, only in dim light, however, just
like to say goodbye.

Even before it was faded, I called to Trevanion, we would have to down run, the Blizzard was
approaching. He shook his head and ignored my warning. He went on. I did not know if I follow
him or me to safety should and stood still undecided. The storm began to roar, it's because
I saw that Trevanion, the already quite high, was suddenly disappeared. Apparently, had burst a snow
bridge and he was overthrown in the column. I searched the place to keep in mind lag because
I could not him, the atmosphere darkened quickly, I threw myself flat on the floor, and to avoid
being thrown out, I clutched my arms around a block of ice. It was a rage in the elements
that brought the heart to a standstill. Nevertheless, my thoughts deals only with Trevanion,
it was as if a goal in the mysterious House of Aurora would open to admit him. How long do I
motionless and tension of all forces was the case, I do not know, as the violence of the storm was
less, I crawled on hands and nail against the hut down, and only when I reached the protection of
a rock wall, I dared to raise.

Rachotinsky in a mechanical, almost dogged sense of duty to the warehouse Mirmells forged, the
wrestling with death, was to speak only with difficulty, down on the glacier accompany. We waited
until the storm was over, we were provided with ropes, up. My loud calls went unanswered.
The snowfall had obliterated any trace. Well I discovered in the direction that had disappeared
into the Trevanion, an open column, but it was wide, a bottomless
abyss.

I shouted down, I threw down the rope, nothing. Since Rachotinsky said, leaning on a huge
sheet of ice, in a hoarse voice: "The sun. A red-hot segment appeared on the horizon up. All the
land was of a burning Scarlet doused.

How many days passed before the ship came into view, which I do not remember me. I remember
only that I was convinced that it must come firmly believe my destiny had arrived at the turn. A
second Antarctic night, I would not have survived. What is had collected in readiness in me could
and could not be deceived. The skill I am in debt, I told myself, and I defied him from the
decision.

Allan Mirmell had long been reduced to below the earth when his ship docked on the coast. The
captain, deeply concerned about looking at our lot and the decision of his Lord as a sad aberration
had just risked to act contrary to the received commands. It was high time that they came, I
was on the point in the company of melancholy and silent Rachotinsky to be crazy. When I entered
the deck of the ship, I had the feeling of resurrection. They asked for our experiences. Rachotinsky
could not answer: he had the mind lost. As for me, so I was unable to communicate anything
other than the most superficial Operations that can be played in three sets. I have never and to
anybody talked to the present day. I asked the captain to me in Sydney, Australia to the nearest
land, and there I started my life over again. "

The monkey and the mirror

"This phrase: start life over again, I rarely use with such good reason hear, "said Cajetan, finishing
as Hadwiger.

"And as we know he can be pleased with the success," added Borsati
by a long view of Hadwiger mild pinned.

"As complicated as diverse as inexhaustible, how rich, how great it is the human Existence,
"cried Cajetan taken.

"I feel in a mood like that to boaster Plassenburg. One would sometimes drown really plunge deep.
But one must be able to swim, I see a well. And a umpanzerte soul needs "one.

"A umpanzerte soul and an unlocked heart," Lamberg said seriously.

Hadwin saw them all with a strange look shiny, as if he would answer: know ye, then? did you
know it because, you rich, rich-born, spoiled, you who Had time, time and space, freedom and
determination? Borsati guessed his thoughts. "There is also an indirect way of life and experience,"
he said, "although they are not as forces, the decision not to not transformation but it is
often much more painful - The heart that is unlocked, which will be so loaded, so wounded,
so broken in place, so cut into the changing lots that not even an act of self-preservation
longer has the strength. This is to be delivered with bound limbs to Moloch. "

"And to you this hour is not like a fairy tale?" Turned to Prince Sigismund of Hadwiger, "It
is not surprising that here, surrounded by a friendly nature, again under Friends being, that
you for the first of those extraordinary and far-reaching events ? Tell I am wrong, perhaps, or I can
not express my feelings right , But for giving me this has something of a mirror, something useful
and meaningful Almost as if you think for yourself right now. The word is not always just a thing I
said, It is also sometimes a symbol of knowledge and increase. "

You're right, Lord, "said Cajetan," and this is by far the most beautiful thing we can say about
it. "

"And the best thing one can" do it, could now hear Franziska, who
up to that Moment completely lost closer look right, "is that we"
give him the gold mirror.

"A proposal that will meet any opposition," replied with a smile and acknowledged Lamberg with
a chivalrous gesture irritating the silent consent of Cajetan and Borsatis. Hadwiger stood up,
blushing like a schoolboy.

"Stay just sitting, Henry," continued George Vincent exhorting continued,
"we will certainly not miss such an occasion for celebration, and
you have to wait until you will be presented the trophy with the proper
ceremonies.

"

"Excellent," the prince laughed as we got in the end even more "to hear a speech.

"We are the mirror," much obliged to you, "continued Lamberg," Who among us can it take from now
in hand, without seeing a plethora of faces and figures in it? His record how deep and how strange!
is no counterpart of the eye that looks into. You is dull. And yet a world in it. Women and men, animals,
ships and houses, sailors Volatile and land, knights and servants, citizens and farmers, conquerors
and artists, lovers and Criminals, eccentrics and obsessed, desperate and fools, bouncers and
sufferer, the coincidence the dream and wonder, all that is in it. None of us who this tissue
of fates have been spun, trying to make partner, nor even of a rivalry been mentioned. There
was no courtship, it was a gift.

And we speak, Heinrich, the mirror, because you have paid the most, given your own from within.
The I wanted to say, and so is my need for celebration is in fact already satisfied. "

Cajetan and the Prince applauded Hadwiger remained with bowed head stand. Lamberg walked to the
door and pressed the electric button to bring up the mirror of Emil to leave. The prince took
his leave, however, of Frank. They spoke in a low voice. As the servant did not come, Lamberg
rang again, and when that was in vain, opened He annoyed the door to shout. Now, instead appeared
on Emil's the cook and told her Mr quite excited with the monkey had escaped and that pursued by
Emil. "Escaped? it is yes, 'night, Lamberg said, and began the confused person auszuforschen.
It turned out that Quäcola in the afternoon, around the time when the prince came, the golden mirror
stolen from the dining room had and was gone. Emil was very upset and the animal had been in the house looking
in all the rooms in the basement, the attic, two hours and found no trace of him. Finally he
stepped out onto the balcony, and there is now Quäcola all huddled in a corner sat beneath the ivy,
with a Cape covered, he also stolen, and the mirror in the paw. Emil tried him to snatch the
prey, but the monkey had growled at him viciously and so ever be that one had to fear. Since
Emily had brought the whip and have the unruly beast struck. Quäcola I hiss angrily swung himself over
the railing, had to climb down the tree trunk in front of the house and run up against the wood.
And Emil was now behind him.

"Now? in the darkness? in the forest? "Lamberg asked in amazement. The friends and of Frank Prince
had listened to the report with curiosity and wonder. It was advice on what to do was, and
Lamberg said it was best if he go himself, heimzulocken to the refugee, this idiotic Emil did
not so much porridge in the head to an innocent harmless animal to grasp. The others were
willing to stand by him. Prince Sigismund said with a smile his regret over the incident, he
asked if he should send people over, that flares could scan the forest, Lamberg thanked and replied
that he hoped that the Quäcola Stay under the wet trees are uncomfortable
by itself and return to obedience am.

Full warmth pressed the prince all by the hand and left.

Equipped with lanterns to Lamberg and the three friends set off. As she fifty feet above the villa,
there were came from Emil them against the dark forest. He was exhausted without a hat or cap and
gasped. In his hand he carried a whip Fuhrmann, the cord was tied to the stem, apparently for
the purpose of using them as a lasso to. Lamberg picked up the lantern against the face of the servant,
and he saw it full of Blood was, branches and bushes had torn his skin. "You did not find the
animal?" Lamberg said. The unfortunate man could not speak, he shrugged his shoulders in despair.
"And you know very well that Quäcola the mirror had been with him when he escaped?" Emil nodded.
"That's just it," he stammered, "this is indeed the infamy, and he wanted me to Bring to blame, he
wanted to make me the merciful Lord hated. The men need to understand that, " He turned excitedly
to his friends and almost crying, "the Schabernak was aimed at me,
I wanted to destroy the cattle ... "

"Until you have while following him?"

Interrupted Lamberg displeasure with the spreading Tirade.

"Until the Trisselwand over," the servant replied timidly.

? "So far," said Cajetan affected, "then our night hopeless enterprise. Wait we from the day tomorrow.
"

Nevertheless, Lamberg admitted the futility of the investigation, he wanted a walk in the Forest
do. He called the name Quäcola hundred times, and a gentle echo answered from the Solitude of
the mountains. He also whistled as he was accustomed to society when
the monkey to have wished.

After half an hour, he turned back disappointed and put out the forest the lantern, because now the
moon had risen. Very belatedly took the Villas residents dinner and it was said very little. Lamberg
was upset, Franziska tired, the others could be on their observations. The servant had to go to
bed at hunting in the wet forest he had caught a cold and a chill shook the poor monkey hater.

The next morning, after rambling walk on forest trails, rock climbing and discovered the friends
the monkey. He was lying on the shore of the lake, shattered the lower body in the water, the
brown-haired head on a stone. The situation allowed no doubt that
he at the top of the rock was lost and thrown down from the overhanging
wall.

Lamberg sat down at the side of the Corpse and said: "Just look at
his face warped, is there any human Inside a human grief and fear.

Regrettable Quäcola! Also you have under the suffer from stupidity, should include you in it
has made a martyr. Your red panties and your blue dress suit look foolish than you yourself were,
you were a Socrates in the Monkeys, and who knows what emotions your home for raised chimpanzee
soul. "

Borsati Cajetan and smiled, shook his head in astonishment Hadwiger.

The Golden Mirror was and still lost. Lamberg had the whole country by hordes of Peasant children
scan, but without success. It must be assumed that during his fall the monkey the mirror slipped
and fell into the lake, the shore at this point is lowered to a steep depth. Thus the great
treasure the stock of human resources stolen forever.

Hadwiger and Frank traveled back the same evening in the city, and Cajetan Borsati until two
days afterward.

There is a small country house in a garden, vineyards are autumn leaves can flare up. It is
a late afternoon, and the hills shimmering in the hazy sunlight. From the house of a passionately
wailing sounds of Chopin mazurka, the fence sit two eavesdropping men, a man and a woman of whom
have shaken hands. And inside in the semi-dark room is Franziska; Hadwiger, turning his face in
the twilight of the room, looks from the window shone around them towards it. You must die, the lovely.
He knows it.

                                He feels as if she had always been waiting in vain for him and he
in vain to reach them sought.

Over, over, alas!

But she feels the hour in full, not just for the music, the sounds
from the next room - it's like when a nameless, she played - but because
of the music that springs from harmony within.

Because she is aware that they truth in their lives lived to the
end has, so far as the last edge that there is only a slight Bend
over demand, and the heart stops beating like a clock that no longer
ticking, because eternity begins.

Even she knows that some will mourn, they have been much , and some
will cry that they have loved.

End

Started: April 1907 Completed: May 1911

Works by Jakob Wassermann

The
Jews of Zirndorf

Novel.

International updated edition. Fourth edition. Stapled 4 Mark, 5 Mark in linen.

The story of the young Renate Fuchs

Novel. Eleventh edition. Stapled 6 marks, in lines 7 Mark 50 Pfennig.

The niegeküßte mouth - Chilperic

Novelistic studies.

2 Mark stapled, in lines 3 marks.

Alexander in Babylon

Novel. Third edition. Stapled 3 Mark 50 Pfennig, in lines 4 Mark 50 Pfennig, leather 6 marks.

The
sisters

Three novels. Third edition. Stapled 2 Mark, 3 Mark in half leather, leather-4 Mark.

The masks Erwin Reiners

Novel. Seventh edition.

Stapled 5 Mark, in Leinen 6 marks.

Caspar Hauser or the Inertia of the Heart

Novel. Ninth edition (German Verlagsanstalt, Stuttgart.)

S. Fischer Verlag * Berlin

The Jews of Zirndorf

The author of the
story of the young Renate Fuchs, "Jakob Wassermann, has its ten Age
novel, "The Jews of Zirndorf" in a revised edition published excellent
stead of the cuts came.

A remarkable novel, this "by Jews Zirndorf.

" Rarely has a Jewish poet and his co-religionists of the Judaism of the Presence ever sharper
and truer things said than Aquarius in this book. The best qualities of the Jewish people appear
in it himself, embodied above all the critical and skeptical mind, which also is easy on yourself. This
connects to Aquarius also a strong but more mystical than sensual glowing imagination, especially
in the fantastic "prelude" of the novel, which is one with the appearance of Messiah Sabbatai Zevi
linked strange persecution of Jews in the seventeenth century treated a brilliant poetic performance
has been achieved.

(Neue Zürcher Zeitung)

The story of the young Renate Fuchs
Any large, liberating book has to be a book of redemption and rebirth.
This is a book of salvation for the women, "the old sense prejudices
begin distrust, their fate, women experience their fate, and do "his
own body anymore. - Since the "Green Henry" cellar in the German language
is not as interesting and profound Novel published.

(The Future)

The
Moloch

An important work! Injury because of the serious idea that
underlies it, important for the psychological and creative arts, with
the Aquarius that idea to a large and broad creator, has designed
life-like paintings! ... One can already from this crowded Synopsis
see that this is primarily a psychological problem, the author this
problem has in fact completely, according to its essence, treated
psychologically, and that in almost admirably. Yes, such is the author's
portrayal of mental art, that the reader will witness all the operations
and believes it mitempfindet in truth.

(Berner Bund)

The niegeküßte
mouth - Chilperic

In these stories the Wassermann narrative art has
reached a more than respectable level. There are fiction, art by such
a fine and safe operation as we know her in contemporary German literature
have not many. 

They had been in almost every night Griinwiesel played cards, the game by half Kreuzer, was the
nephew of the now pitiful, sat Kronentaler and ducats, insisted that no the only games as fine
as he, but the injured men habitually reconciled by re- out that he lost huge sums in them. They
did also did not scruple him to take a considerable amount of money, because "he is an Englishman,
so rich from home" they said, and pushed the ducats in his pocket.

Thus, the nephew of the strange gentleman came in a short time in town and neighborhood in my non-appearance.
You could not remember in living memory, a young man of this kind in Gruen Wiesel seen to have, and
it was the strangest phenomenon that one ever noticed. You could not to say that the nephew
would have learned something about dancing as. Latin and Greek were to him, as they say, Bohemian
villages. In a parlor game in Mayor Home, he should write something and it was found that he did not even
write his name could, in geography, he made the most obvious blunder, for he did not come out
on to put a German city in France or Danish to Poland, he had seen nothing, nothing studied, and
the rector often shook his head doubtfully over the crude ignorance of the young man, but they
found everything excellent, what he did or said, because he was so outrageous to want to always
be right, and the end of each of its Talk was: "I understand this better!"

Thus came the approaching winter, and only now was the nephew on with
even greater glory.

Man each company was boring, not where he was present, we yawned when that rational Man said
something, but when uttered the nephew even the stupid stuff in bad German, was all ears. It was
now that the excellent young man was also a poet, for not easily passed a night on which he drew not
a lot of paper from his pocket and the Society read some sonnets. There were some people from
one part of this Seals claimed that they were poor and without meaning, another part, they wanted
have somewhere read, printed, but the nephew did not let himself be discouraged, he read and
read, then made aware of the beauties of his verses, and each time was rushing Applause.

His triumph, however, were the Griinwiesel balls.


