"Oh, she must! She's not like that... and we've been so good to her. Nu... Patom, some soldiers
came early in the afternoon and they said that some policeman had been firing from Katya's
windows and they must search the flat. They were very polite--quite a young student was in
charge of them, he was rather like Boris--and they went all over everything. They were very
polite, but it wasn't nice seeing them stand there with their rifles in the middle of the dining-room.
Katya offered them some wine. But they wouldn't touch it. They said they had been told not
to, and they looked quite angry with her for offering it. They couldn't find the policeman
anywhere of course, but they told Katya they might have to burn the house down if they didn't
find him. I think they just said it to amuse themselves. But Katya believed it, and was in
a terrible way and began collecting all her china in the middle of the floor, and then Ivan
came in and told her not to be silly."

"Weren't you frightened to come home?" asked Vera.

"Ivan wanted to come with me but I wouldn't let him. I felt quite brave in the flat, as though
I'd face anybody. And then every step I took outside I got more and more frightened. It was
so strange, so quiet with the trams not running and the shops all shut. The streets are quite
deserted except that in the distance you see crowds, and sometimes there were shots and people
running.... Then suddenly I began to run. I felt as though there were animals in the canals
and things crawling about on the ships. And then, just as I thought I was getting home, I saw
a man, dead on the snow.... I'm not going out alone again until it's over. I'm so glad I'm
back, Vera darling. We'll have a lovely evening."

They both discovered then how hungry they were, and they had an enormous meal. It was very
cosy with the curtains drawn and the wood crackling in the stove and the samovar chuckling.
There was a plateful of chocolates, and Nina ate them all. She was quite happy now, and sang
and danced about as they cleared away most of the supper, leaving the samovar and the bread
and the jam and the sausage for Nicholas and Bohun when they came in.

At last Vera sat down in the old red arm-chair that had the holes and the places where it suddenly
went flat, and Nina piled up some cushions and sat at her feet. For a time they were happy,
saying very little, Vera softly stroking Nina's hair. Then, as Vera afterwards described it
to me, "Some fright or sudden dread of loneliness came into the room. It was exactly as though
the door had opened and some one had joined us... and, do you know, I looked up and expected
to see Uncle Alexei."

However, of course, there was no one there; but Nina moved away a little, and then Vera, wanting
to comfort her, tried to draw her closer, and then of course, Nina (because she was like that)
with a little peevish shrug of the shoulders drew even farther away. There was, after that,
silence between them, an awkward ugly silence, piling up and up with discomfort until the whole
room seemed to be eloquent with it.

Both their minds were, of course, occupied in the same direction, and suddenly Nina, who moved
always on impulse and had no restraint, burst out:

"I must know how Andrey Stepanovitch (their name for Lawrence, because Jeremy had no Russian
equivalent) is--I'm going to telephone."

"You can't," Vera said quietly. "It isn't working--I tried an hour ago to get on to Nicholas."

"Well then, I shall go off and find out," said Nina, knowing very well that she would not.

"Oh, Nina, of course you mustn't.... You know you can't. Perhaps when Nicholas comes in he
will have some news for us."

"Why shouldn't I?"

"You know why not. What would he think? Besides, you're not going out into the town again to-night."

"Oh, aren't I? And who's going to stop me?"

"I am," said Vera.

Nina sprang to her feet. In her later account to me of this quarrel she said, "You know, Durdles,
I don't believe I ever loved Vera more than I did just then. In spite of her gravity she looked
so helpless and as though she wanted loving so terribly. I could just have flung my arms round
her and hugged her to death at the very moment that I was screaming at her. Why are we like that?"

At any rate Nina stood up there and stamped her foot, her hair hanging all about her face and
her body quivering. "Oh, you're going to keep me, are you? What right have you got over me?
Can't I go and leave the flat at any moment if I wish, or am I to consider myself your prisoner?...
Tzuineeto, pajalueesta... I didn't know. I can only eat my meals with your permission, I suppose.
I have to ask your leave before going to see my friends.... Thank you, I know now. But I'm
not going to stand it. I shall do just as I please. I'm grown up. No one can stop me...."

Vera, her eyes full of distress looked helplessly about her. She never could deal with Nina
when she was in these storms of rage, and to-day she felt especially helpless.

"Nina, dear... don't.... You know that it isn't so. You can go where you please, do what you
please."

"Thank you," said Nina, tossing her head. "I'm glad to hear it."

"I know I'm tiresome very often. I'm slow and stupid. If I try you sometimes you must forgive
me and be patient.... Sit down again and let's be happy. You know how I love you. Nina, darling...
come again."

But Nina stood there pouting. She was loving Vera so intensely that it was all that she could
do to hold herself back, but her very love made her want to hurt.... "It's all very well to
say you love me, but you don't act as though you do. You're always trying to keep me in. I
want to be free. And Andrey Stepanovitch...."

They both paused at Lawrence's name. They knew that that was at the root of the matter between
them, that it had been so for a long time, and that any other pretence would be false.

"You know I love him--" said Nina, "and I'm going to marry him."

I can see then Vera taking a tremendous pull upon herself as though she suddenly saw in front
of her a gulf into whose depths, in another moment, she would fall. But my vision of the story,
from this point, is Nina's.

Vera told me no more until she came to the final adventure of the evening. This part of the
scene then is witnessed with Nina's eyes, and I can only fill in details which, from my knowledge
of them both, I believe to have occurred. Nina, knew, of course, what the effect of her announcement
would be upon Vera, but she had not expected the sudden thin pallor which stole like a film
over her sister's face, the withdrawal, the silence. She was frightened, so she went on recklessly.
"Oh, I know that he doesn't care for me yet.... I can see that of course. But he will. He must.
He's seen nothing of me yet. But I am stronger than he, I can make him do as I wish. I will
make him. You don't want me to marry him and I know why."

She flung that out as a challenge, tossing her head scornfully, but nevertheless watching with
frightened eyes her sister's face. Suddenly Vera spoke, and it was in a voice so stern that
it was to Nina a new voice, as though she had suddenly to deal with some new figure whom she
had never seen before.

"I can't discuss that with you, Nina. You can't marry because, as you say, he doesn't care
for you--in that way. Also if he did it would be a very unhappy marriage. You would soon despise
him. He is not clever in the way that you want a man to be clever. You'd think him slow and
dull after a month with him.... And then he ought to beat you and he wouldn't. He'd be kind
to you and then you'd be ruined. I can see now that I've always been too kind to you--indeed,
every one has--and the result is, that you're spoilt and know nothing about life at all--or
men. You are right. I've treated you as a child too long. I will do so no longer."

Nina turned like a little fury, standing back from Vera as though she were going to spring
upon her. "That's it, is it?" she cried. "And all because you want to keep him for yourself.
I understand. I have eyes. You love him. You are hoping for an intrigue with him.... You love
him! You love him! You love him!... and he doesn't love you and you are so miserable...."

Vera looked at Nina, then suddenly turned and burying her head in her hands sobbed, crouching
in her chair. Then slipping from the chair, knelt catching Nina's knees, her head against her
dress.

Nina was aghast, terrified--then in a moment overwhelmed by a surging flood of love so that
she caught Vera to her, caressing her hair, calling her by her little name, kissing her again
and again and again.

"Verotchka--Verotchka--I didn't mean anything. I didn't indeed. I love you. I love you. You
know that I do. I was only angry and wicked. Oh, I'll never forgive myself. Verotchka--get
up--don't kneel to me like that...!"

She was interrupted by a knock on the outer hall door. To both of them that sound must have
been terribly alarming. Vera said afterwards, that "at once we realised that it was the knock
of some one more frightened than we were."

In the first place, no one ever knocked, they always rang the rather rickety electric bell--and
then the sound was furtive and hurried, and even frantic; "as though," said Vera, "some one
on the other side of the door was breathless."

The sisters stood, close together, for quite a long time without moving. The knocking ceased
and the room was doubly silent. Then suddenly it began again, very rapid and eager, but muffled,
almost as though some one were knocking with a gloved hand.

Vera went then. She paused for a moment in the little hall, for again there was silence and
she fancied that perhaps the intruder had given up the matter in despair. But, no--there it
was again--and this third time seemed to her, perhaps because she was so close to it, the most
urgent and eager of all. She went to the door and opened it. There was no light in the passage
save the dim reflection from the lamp on the lower floor, and in the shadow she saw a figure
cowering back into the corner behind the door.

"Who is it?" she asked. The figure pushed past her, slipping into their own little hall.

"But you can't come in like that," she said, turning round on him.

"Shut the door!" he whispered. "Bozhe moi! Bozhe moi.... Shut the door."

She recognised him then. He was the policeman from the corner of their street, a man whom they
knew well. He had always been a pompous little man, stout and short of figure, kindly so far
as they knew, although they had heard of him as cruel in the pursuit of his official duties.
They had once talked to him a little and he explained: "I wouldn't hurt a fly, God knows,"
he had said, "of myself, but a man likes to do his work efficiently--and there are so many
lazy fellows about here."

He prided himself, they saw, on a punctilious attention to duty. When he had to come there
for some paper or other he was always extremely polite, and if they were going away he helped
them about their passports. He told them on another occasion that "he was pleased with life--although
one never knew of course when it might come down upon one--"

Well, it had come down on him now. A more pitiful object Vera had never seen. He was dressed
in a dirty black suit and wore a shabby fur cap, his padded overcoat was torn.

But the overwhelming effect of him was terror. Vera had never before seen such terror, and
at once, as though the thing were an infectious disease, her own heart began to beat furiously.
He was shaking so that the fur cap, which was too large for his head, waggled up and down over
his eye in a ludicrous manner.

His face was dirty as though he had been crying, and a horrid pallid grey in colour.

His collar was torn, showing his neck between the folds of his overcoat.

Vera looked out down the stairs as though she expected to see something. The flat was perfectly
still. There was not a sound anywhere. She turned back to the man again, he was crouching against
the wall.

"You can't come in here," she repeated. "My sister and I are alone. What do you want?... What's
the matter?"

"Shut the door!... Shut the door!... Shut the door!..." he repeated.

She closed it. "Now what is it?" she asked, and then, hearing a sound, turned to find that
Nina was standing with wide eyes, watching.

"What is it?" Nina asked in a whisper.

"I don't know," said Vera, also whispering. "He won't tell me."

He pushed past them then into the dining-room, looked about him for a moment, then sank into
a chair as though his legs would no longer support him, holding on to the cloth with both hands.

The sisters followed him into the dining-room.

"Don't shiver like that!" said Vera, "tell us why you've come in here?"...

His eyes looked past them, never still, wandering from wall to wall, from door to door.

"They're after me..." he said. "That's it--I was hiding in our cupboard all last night and
this morning. They were round there all the time breaking up our things.... I heard them shouting.
They were going to kill me. I've done nothing--O God! what's that?"

"There's no one here," said Vera, "except ourselves."

"I saw a chance to get away and I crept out. But I couldn't get far.... I knew you would be
good-hearted... good-hearted. Hide me somewhere--anywhere!... and they won't come in here.
Only until the evening. I've done no one any harm.... Only my duty...."

He began to snivel, taking out from his coat a very dirty pocket-handkerchief and dabbing his
face with it.

The odd thing that they felt, as they looked at him, was the incredible intermingling of public
and private affairs. Five minutes before they had been passing through a tremendous crisis
in their personal relationship. The whole history of their lives together, flowing through
how many years, through how many phases, how many quarrels, and happiness and adventures had
reached here a climax whose issue was so important that life between them could never be the
same again.

So urgent had been the affair that during that hour they had forgotten the Revolution, Russia,
the war. Moreover, always in the past, they had assumed that public life was no affair of theirs.
The Russo-Japanese War, even the spasmodic revolt in 1905, had not touched them except as a
wind of ideas which blew so swiftly through their private lives that they were scarcely affected
by it.

Now in the person of that trembling, shaking figure at their table, the Revolution had come
to them, and not only the Revolution, but the strange new secret city that Petrograd was...
the whole ground was quaking beneath them.

And in the eyes of the fugitive they saw what terror of death really was. It was no tale read
in a story-book, no recounting of an adventure by some romantic traveller, it was here with
them in the flat and at any moment....

It was then that Vera realised that there was no time to lose--something must be done at once.

"Who's pursuing you?" she asked, quickly. "Where are they?"

He got up and was moving about the room as though he was looking for a hiding-place.

"All the people.... Everybody!" He turned round upon them, suddenly striking, what seemed to
them, a ludicrously grand attitude. "Abominable! That's what it is. I heard them shouting that
I had a machine-gun on the roof and was killing people. I had no machine-gun. Of course not.
I wouldn't know what to do with one if I had one. But there they were. That's what they were
shouting! And I've always done my duty. What's one to do? Obey one's superior officer? Of course,
what he says one does. What's life for?... and then naturally one expects a reward. Things
were going well with me, very well indeed--and then this comes. It's a degrading thing for
a man to hide for a day and a night in a cupboard." His teeth began to chatter then so that
he could scarcely speak. He seemed to be shaking with ague.

He caught Vera's hand. "Save me--save me!" he said. "Put me somewhere.... I've done nothing
disgraceful. They'll shoot me like a dog--"

The sisters consulted.

"What are we to do?" asked Nina. "We can't let him go out to be killed."

"No. But if we keep him here and they come in and find him, we shall all be involved.... It
isn't fair to Nicholas or Uncle Ivan...."

"We can't let him go out."

"No, we can't," Vera replied. She saw at once how impossible that was. Were he caught outside
and shot they would feel that they had his death for ever on their souls.

"There's the linen cupboard," she said.

She turned round to Nina. "I'm afraid," she said, "if you hide here, you'll have to go into
another cupboard. And it can only be for an hour or two. We couldn't keep you here all night."

He said nothing except "Quick. Take me." Vera led him into her bedroom and showed him the place.
Without another word he pressed in amongst the clothes. It was a deep cupboard, and, although
he was a fat man, the door closed quite evenly.

It was suddenly as though he had never been, Vera went back to Nina.

They stood close to one another in the middle of the room, and talked in whispers.

"What are we going to do?"

"We can only wait!"

"They'll never dare to search your room, Vera."

"One doesn't know now... everything's so different."

"Vera, you are brave. Forgive me what I said just now.... I'll help you if you want--"

"Hush, Nina dear. Not that now. We've got to think--what's best...."

They kissed very quietly, and then they sat down by the table and waited. There was simply
nothing else to do.

Vera said that, during that pause, she could see the little policeman everywhere. In every
part of the room she found him, with his fat legs and dirty, streaky face and open collar.
The flat was heavy, portentous with his presence, as though it stood with a self-important
finger on its lips saying, "I've got a secret in here. Such a secret. You don't know what I've
got...."

They discussed in whispers as to who would come in first. Nicholas or Uncle Ivan or Bohun or
Sacha? And supposing one of them came in while the soldiers were there? Who would be the most
dangerous? Sacha? She would scream and give everything away. Suppose they had seen him enter
and were simply waiting, on the cat-and-mouse plan, to catch him? That was an intolerable thought.

"I think," said Nina, "I must go and see whether there's any one outside."

But there was no need for her to do that. Even as she spoke they heard the steps on the stairs;
and instantly afterwards there came the loud knocking on their door. Vera pressed Nina's hand
and went into the hall.

"Kto tam... Who's there?" she asked.

"Open the door!... The Workmen and Soldiers' Committee demand entrance in the name of the Revolution."

She opened the door at once. During those first days of the Revolution they cherished certain
melodramatic displays.

Whether consciously or no they built on all the old French Revolution traditions, or perhaps
it is that every Revolution produces of necessity the same clothing with which to cover its
nakedness. A strange mixture of farce and terror were those detachments of so-called justice.
At their head there was, as a rule, a student, often smiling and bespectacled. The soldiers
themselves, from one of the Petrograd regiments, were frankly out for a good time and enjoyed
themselves thoroughly, but, as is the Slavonic way, playfulness could pass with surprising
suddenness to dead earnest--with, indeed, so dramatic a precipitance that the actors themselves
were afterwards amazed. Of these "little, regrettable mistakes" there had already, during the
week, been several examples. To Vera, with the knowledge of the contents of her linen-cupboard,
the men seemed terrifying enough. Their leader was a fat and beaming student--quite a boy.
He was very polite, saying "Zdrastvuite," and taking off his cap. The men behind him--hulking
men from one of the Guards regiments--pushed about in the little hall like a lot of puppies,
joking with one another, holding their rifles upside down, and making sudden efforts at a seriousness
that they could not possibly sustain.

Only one of them, an older man with a thick black beard, was intensely grave, and looked at
Vera with beseeching eyes, as though he longed to tell her the secret of his life.

"What can I do for you?" she asked the student.

"Prosteete... Forgive us." He smiled and blinked at her, then put on his cap, clicked his heels,
gave a salute, and took his cap off again. "We wish to be in no way an inconvenience to you.
We are simply obeying orders. We have instructions that a policeman is hiding in one of these
flats.... We know, of course, that he cannot possibly be here. Nevertheless we are compelled...
Prosteete.... What nice pictures you have!" he ended suddenly. It was then that Vera discovered
that they were by this time in the dining-room, crowded together near the door and gazing at
Nina with interested eyes.

"There's no one here, of course," said Vera, very quietly. "No one at all."

"Tak Tochno (quite so)," said the black-bearded soldier, for no particular reason, suddenly.

"You will allow me to sit down?" said the student, very politely. "I must, I am afraid, ask
a few questions."

"Certainly," said Vera quietly. "Anything you like."

She had moved over to Nina, and they stood side by side. But she could not think of Nina, she
could not think even of the policeman in the cupboard.... She could think only of that other
house on the Quay where, perhaps even now, this same scene was being enacted. They had found
Wilderling.... They had dragged him out.... Lawrence was beside him.... They were condemned
together.... Oh! love had come to her at last in a wild, surging flood! Of all the steps she
had been led until at last, only half an hour before in that scene with Nina, the curtains
had been flung aside and the whole view revealed to her. She felt such a strength, such a pride,
such a defiance, as she had not known belonged to human power. She had, for many weeks, been
hesitating before the gates. Now, suddenly, she had swept through. His death now was not the
terror that it had been only an hour before. Nina's accusation had shown her, as a flash of
lightning flings the mountains into view, that now she could never lose him, were he with her
or no, and that beside that truth nothing mattered.

Something of her bravery and grandeur and beauty must have been felt by them all at that moment.
Nina realised it.... She told me that her own fear left her altogether when she saw how Vera
was facing them. She was suddenly calm and quiet and very amused.

The student officer seemed now to be quite at home. He had taken a great many notes down in
a little book, and looked very important as he did so. His chubby face expressed great self-satisfaction.
He talked half to himself and half to Vera. "Yes... Yes... quite so. Exactly. And your husband
is not yet at home, Madame Markovitch.... Nu da.... Of course these are very troublesome times,
and as you say things have to move in a hurry.

"You've heard perhaps that Nicholas Romanoff has abdicated entirely--and refused to allow his
son to succeed. Makes things simpler.... Yes.... Very pleasant pictures you have--and Ostroffsky--six
volumes. Very agreeable. I have myself acted in Ostroffsky at different times. I find his plays
very enjoyable. I am sure you will forgive us, Madame, if we walk through your charming flat."

But indeed by this time the soldiers themselves had begun to roam about on their own account.
Nina remembers one soldier in especial--a large dirty fellow with ragged moustache--who quite
frankly terrified her. He seemed to regard her with particular satisfaction, staring at her,
and, as it were, licking his lips over her. He wandered about the room fingering things, and
seemed to be immensely interested in Nicholas's little den, peering through the glass window
that there was in the door and rubbing the glass with his finger. He presently pushed the door
open and soon they were all in there.

Then a characteristic thing occurred. Apparently Nicholas's inventions--his little pieces of
wood and bark and cloth, his glass bottles, and tubes--seemed to them highly suspicious. There
was laughter at first, and then sudden silence. Nina could see part of the room through the
open door and she watched them as they gathered round the little table, talking together in
excited whispers. The tall, rough-looking fellow who had frightened her before picked up one
of the tubes, and then, whether by accident or intention, let it fall, and the tinkling smash
of the glass frightened them all so precipitately that they came tumbling out into the larger
room. The big fellow whispered something to the student, who at once became more self-important
than ever, and said very seriously to Vera:

"That is your husband's room, Madame, I understand?"

"Yes," said Vera quietly, "he does his work in there."

"What kind of work?"

"He is an inventor."

"An inventor of what?"

"Various things.... He is working at present on something to do with the making of cloth."

Unfortunately this serious view of Nicholas's inventions suddenly seemed to Nina so ridiculous
that she tittered. She could have done nothing more regrettable. The student obviously felt
that his dignity was threatened. He looked at her very severely:

"This is no laughing matter," he said. He himself then got up and went into the inner room.
He was there for some time, and they could hear him fingering the tubes and treading on the
broken glass. He came out again at last.

He was seriously offended.

"You should have told us your husband was an inventor."

"I didn't think it was of importance," said Vera.

"Everything is of importance," he answered. The atmosphere was now entirely changed. The soldiers
were angry--they had, it seemed, been deceived and treated like children. The melancholy fellow
with the black beard looked at Vera with eyes of deep reproach.

"When will your husband return?" asked the student.

"I am afraid I don't know," said Vera. She realised that the situation was now serious, but
she could not keep her mind upon it. In that house on the Quay what was happening? What had,
perhaps, already happened?...

"Where has he gone?"

"I don't know."

"Why didn't he tell you where he was going?"

"He often does not tell me."

"Ah, that is wrong. In these days one should always say where one is going."

He stood up very stiff and straight. "Search the house," he said to his men.

Suddenly then Vera's mind concentrated. It was as though, she told me "I came back into the
room and saw for the first time what was happening."

"There is no one in the rest of the flat," she said, "and nothing that can interest you."

"That is for me to judge," said the little officer grimly.

"But I assure you there is nothing," she went on eagerly. "There is only the kitchen and the
bath-room and the five bedrooms."

"Whose bedrooms?" said the officer.

"My husband's, my own, my sister's, my uncle's, and an Englishman's," she answered, colouring
a little.

"Nevertheless we must do our duty.... Search the house," he repeated.

"But you must not go into our bedrooms," she said, her voice rising. "There is nothing for
you there. I am sure you will respect our privacy."

"Our orders must be obeyed," he answered angrily.

"But--" she cried.

"Silence, Madame," he said, furiously, staring at her as though she were his personal, deadly
enemy.

"Very well," said Vera proudly. "Please do as you wish."

The officer walked past her with his head up, and the soldiers followed him, their eyes malicious
and inquisitive and excited. The sisters stood together waiting. Of course the end had come.
They simply stood there fastening their resolution to the extreme moment.

"I must go with them," said Vera. She followed them into her bedroom. It was a very little
place and they filled it, they looked rather sheepish now, whispering to one another.

"What's in there?" said the officer, tapping the cupboard.

"Only some clothes," said Vera.

"Open it!" he ordered.

Then the world did indeed stand still. The clock ceased to tick, the little rumble in the stove
was silenced, the shuffling feet of one of the soldiers stayed, the movement of some rustle
in the wall paper was held. The world was frozen.

"Now I suppose we shall all be shot," was Vera's thought, repeated over and over again with
a ludicrous monotony. Then she could see nothing but the little policeman, tumbling out of
the cupboard, dishevelled and terrified. Terrified! what that look in his eyes would be! That
at any rate she could not face and she turned her head away from them, looking out through
the door into the dark little passage.

She heard as though from an infinite distance the words:

"Well, there's nobody there."

She did not believe him of course. He said that whoever he was, to test her, to tempt her to
give herself away. But she was too clever for them. She turned back and faced them, and then
saw, to the accompaniment of an amazement that seemed like thunder in her ears, that the cupboard
was indeed empty.

"There is nobody," said the black-bearded soldier.

The student looked rather ashamed of himself. The white clothes, the skirts, and the blouses
in the cupboard reproached him.

"You will of course understand, Madame," he said stiffly, "that the search was inevitable.
Regrettable but necessary. I'm sure you will see that for your own satisfaction...."

"You are assured now that there is no one here?" Vera interrupted him coldly.

"Assured," he answered.

But where was the man? She felt as though she were in some fantastic nightmare in which nothing
was as it seemed. The cupboard was not a cupboard, the policeman not a policeman....

"There is the kitchen," she said.

In the kitchen of course they found nothing. There was a large cupboard in one corner but they
did not look there. They had had enough. They returned into the dining-room and there, looking
very surprised, his head very high above his collar was Markovitch.

"What does this mean?" he asked.

"I regret extremely," said the officer pompously. "I have been compelled to make a search.
Duty only... I regret. But no one is here. Your flat is at liberty. I wish you good-afternoon."

Before Markovitch could ask further questions the room was emptied of them all. They tramped
out, laughing and joking, children again, the hall door closed behind them.

Nina clutched Vera's arm.

"Vera.... Vera, where is he?"

"I don't know," said Vera.

"What's all this?" asked Nicholas.

They explained to him but he scarcely seemed to hear. He was radiant--smiling in a kind of ecstasy.

"They have gone? I am safe?"

In the doorway was the little policeman, black with grime and dust, so comical a figure that
in reaction from the crisis of ten minutes before, they laughed hysterically.

"Oh look! look!..." cried Nina. "How dirty he is!"

"Where have you been?" asked Vera. "Why weren't you in the cupboard?"

The little man's teeth were chattering, so that he could scarcely speak....

"I heard them in the other room. I knew that the cupboard would be the first place. I slipped
into the kitchen and hid in the fireplace."

"You're not angry, Nicholas?" Vera asked. "We couldn't send him out to be shot."

"What does that matter?" he almost impatiently brushed it aside. "There are other things more
important." He looked at the trembling dirty figure. "Only you'd better go back and hide again
until it's dark. They might come back...."

He caught Vera by the arm. His eyes were flames. He drew her with him back into her little
room. He closed the door.

"The Revolution has come--it has really come," he cried.

"Yes," she answered, "it has come into this very house. The world has changed."

"The Czar has abdicated.... The old world has gone, the old wicked world! Russia is born again!"

His eyes were the eyes of a fanatic.

Her eyes, too, were alight. She gazed past him.

"I know--I know," she whispered as though to herself.

"Russia--Russia," he went on coming closer and closer, "Russia and you. We will build a new
world. We will forget our old troubles. Oh, Vera, my darling, my darling, we're going to be
happy now! I love you so. And now I can hope again. All our love will be clean in this new
world. We're going to be happy at last!"

But she did not hear him. She saw into space. A great exultation ran through her body. All
lost for love! At last she was awakened, at last she lived, at last, at last, she knew what
love was.

"I love him! I love him... him," her soul whispered. "And nothing now in this world or the
next can separate us."

"Vera--Vera," Nicholas cried, "we are together at last--as we have never been. And now we'll
work together again--for Russia."

She looked at the man whom she had never loved, with a great compassion and pity. She put her
arms around him and kissed him, her whole maternal spirit suddenly aware of him and seeking
to comfort him.

At the touch of her lips his body trembled with happiness. But he did not know that it was
a kiss of farewell....

XIII

I have no idea at all what Lawrence did during the early days of that week. He has never told
me, and I have never asked him. He never, with the single exception of the afternoon at the
Astoria, came near the Markovitches, and I know that was because he had now reached a stage
where he did not dare trust himself to see Vera--just as she at that time did not trust herself
to see him....

I do not know what he thought of those first days of the Revolution. I can imagine that he
took it all very quietly, doing his duty and making no comment. He had of course his own interest
in it, but it would be, I am sure, an entirely original interest, unlike any one else's. I
remember Dune once, in the long-dead days, saying to me, "It's never any use guessing what
Lawrence is thinking. When you think it's football it's Euripides, and when you think it's
Euripides it's Marie Corelli." Of all the actors in this affair he remains to me to the last
as the most mysterious. I know that he loved Vera with the endurance of the rock, the heat
of the flame, the ruthlessness of a torrent, but behind that love there sat the man himself,
invisible, silent, patient, watching.

He may have had Semyonov's contempt for the Revolutionary idealist, he may have had Wilderling's
belief in the Czar's autocracy, he may have had Boris Grogoff's enthusiasm for freedom and
a general holiday. I don't know. I know nothing at all about it. I don't think that he saw
much of the Wilderlings during the earlier part of the week. He himself was a great deal with
the English Military Mission, and Wilderling was with his party whatever that might be. He
could see of course that Wilderling was disturbed, or perhaps indignant is the right word.
"As though you know," he said, "some dirty little boy had been pullin' snooks at him." Nevertheless
the Baroness was the human link. Lawrence would see from the first--that is, from the morning
of the Sunday--that she was in an agony of horror. She confided in nobody, but went about as
though she was watching for something, and at dinner her eyes never left her husband's face
for a moment. Those evening meals must have been awful. I can imagine the dignity, the solemn
heavy room with all the silver, the ceremonious old man-servant and Wilderling himself behaving
as though nothing at all were the matter. To do him all justice he was as brave as a lion,
and as proud as a gladiator, and as conceited as a Prussian. On the Wednesday evening he did
not return home. He telephoned that he was kept on important business.

The Baroness and Lawrence had the long slow meal together. It was almost more than Jerry could
stand having, of course, his own private tortures to face. "It was as though the old lady felt
that she had been deputed to support the honour of the family during her husband's absence.
She must have been wild with anxiety, but she showed no sign except that her hand trembled
when she raised her glass."

"What did you talk about?" I asked him.

"Oh, about anything! Theatres and her home, when she was a girl and England.... Awful, every
minute of it!"

There was a moment towards the end of the meal, when the good lady nearly broke down. The bell
in the hall rang and there was a step; she thought it was her husband and half rose. It was,
however, the Dvornik with a message of no importance. She gave a little sigh. "Oh, I do wish
he would come!... I do wish he would come!" she murmured to herself.

"Oh, he'll come," Lawrence reassured her, but she seemed indignant with him for having overheard
her. Afterwards, sitting together desolately in the magnificent drawing-room, she became affectionately
maternal. I have always wondered why Lawrence confided to me the details of their very intimate
conversation. It was exactly the kind of thing he was most reticent about.

She asked him about his home, his people, his ambitions. She had asked him about these things
before, but to-night there was an appeal in her questions, as though she said:

"Take my mind off that other thing. Help me to forget, if it's only for a moment."

"Have you ever been in love?" she asked.

"Yes. Once," he said.

"Was he in love now?"

"Yes."

"With some one in Russia?"

"Yes."

She hoped that he would be happy. He told her that he didn't think happiness was quite the
point in this particular case. There were other things more important--and, anyway, it was
inevitable.

"He had fallen in love at first sight?"

"Yes. The very first moment."

She sighed. So had she. It was, she thought, the only real way. She asked him whether it might
not, after all, turn out better than he expected.

No, he did not think that it could. But he didn't mind how it turned out--at least he couldn't
look that far. The point was that he was in it, up to the neck, and he was never going to be
out of it again.

There was something boyish about that that pleased her. She put her plump hand on his knee
and told him how she had first met the Baron, down in the South, at Kieff, how grand he had
looked; how, seeing her across a room full of people, he had smiled at her before he had ever
spoken to her or knew her name. "I was quite pretty then," she added. "I have never regretted
our marriage for a single moment," she said. "Nor, I know, has he."

"We hoped there would he children...." She gave a pathetic little gesture. "We will get away
down to the South again as soon as the troubles are over," she ended.

I don't suppose he was thinking much of her--his mind was on Vera all the time--but after he
had left her and lay in bed, sleepless, his mind dwelt on her affectionately, and he thought
that he would like to help her. He realised, quite clearly, that Wilderling was in a very dangerous
position, but I don't think that it ever occurred to him for a moment that it would be wise
for him to move to another flat.

On the next day, Thursday, Lawrence did not return until the middle of the afternoon. The town
was, by now, comparatively quiet again. Numbers of the police had been caught and imprisoned,
some had been shot and others were in hiding; most of the machine-guns shooting from the roofs
had ceased. The abdication of the Czar had already produced the second phase of the Revolution--the
beginning of the struggle between the Provisional Government and the Council of Workmen and
Soldiers' Deputies, and this was proceeding, for the moment, inside the walls of the Duma rather
than in the streets and squares of the town. Lawrence returned, therefore, that afternoon with
a strange sense of quiet and security.

"It was almost, you know, as though this tommy-rot about a White Revolution might be true after
all--with this jolly old Duma and their jolly old Kerensky runnin' the show. Of course I'd
seen the nonsense about their not salutin' the officers and all that, but I didn't think any
fellers alive would be such dam fools.... I might have known better."

He let himself into the flat and found there a death-like stillness--no one about and no sound
except the tickings of the large clock in the drawing-room.

He wandered into that horribly impressive place and suddenly sat down on the sofa with a realisation
of extreme physical fatigue. He didn't know why he was so tired, he had felt quite "bobbish"
all the week; suddenly now his limbs were like water, he had a bad ache down his spine and
his legs were as heavy as lead. He sat in a kind of trance on that sofa, he was not asleep,
but he was also, quite certainly, not awake. He wondered why the place was so "beastly still"
after all the noise there had been all the week. There was no one left alive--every one dead--except
himself and Vera... Vera... Vera.

Then he was conscious that some one was looking at him through the double-doors. At first he
didn't realise who it was, the face was so white and the figure so quiet, then, pulling himself
together, he saw that it was the old servant.

"What is it, Andre?" he asked, sitting up.

The old man didn't answer, but came into the room, carefully closing the door behind him. Lawrence
saw that he was trembling with fright, but was still endeavouring to behave with dignity.

"Barin! Barin!" he whispered, as though Lawrence were a long way from him. "Paul Konstantinovitch!
(that was Wilderling). He's mad.... He doesn't know what he's doing. Oh, sir, stop him, stop
him, or we shall all be murdered!"

"What is he doing?" asked Lawrence, standing up.

"In the little hack room," Andre whispered, as though now he were confiding a terrible secret.
"Come quickly...!"

Lawrence followed him; when he had gone a few steps down the passage he heard suddenly a sharp,
muffled report.

"What's that?"

Andre came close to him, his old, seamed face white like plaster.

"He has a rifle in there..." he said. "He's shooting at them!" Then as Lawrence stepped up
to the door of the little room that was Wilderling's dressing-room, Andre caught his arm--.

"Be careful, Barin.... He doesn't know what he's about. He may not recognise you."

"Oh, that's all right!" said Lawrence. He pushed the door open and walked in. To give for a
moment his own account of it: "You know that room was the rummiest thing. I'd never been into
it before. I knew the old fellow was a bit of a dandy, but I never expected to see all the
pots and jars and glasses there were. You'd have thought one wouldn't have noticed a thing
at such a time, but you couldn't escape them,--his dressing-table simply covered,--white round
jars with pink tops, bottles of hair-oil with ribbons round the neck, manicure things, heaps
of silver things, and boxes with Chinese patterns on them, and one thing, open, with what was
mighty like rouge in it. And clothes all over the place--red silk dressing-gown with golden
tassels, and red leather slippers!

"I don't remember noticing any of this at the moment, but it all comes back to me as soon as
I begin to think of it--and the room stank of scent!"

But of course it was the old man in the corner who mattered. It was, I think, very significant
of Lawrence's character and his unEnglish-English tradition that the first thing that he felt
was the pathos of it. No other Englishman in Petrograd would have seen that at all.

Wilderling was crouched in the corner against a piece of gold Japanese embroidery. He was in
the shadow, away from the window, which was pushed open sufficiently to allow the muzzle of
the rifle to slip between the woodwork and the pane. The old man, his white hair disordered,
his clothes dusty, and his hands grimy, crept forward just as Lawrence entered, fired down
into the side-street, then moved swiftly back into his corner again. He muttered to himself
without ceasing in French, "Chiens! Chiens!... Chiens!" He was very hot, and he stopped for
a moment to wipe the sweat from his forehead, then he saw Lawrence.

"What do you want?" he asked, as though he didn't recognize him.

Lawrence moved down the side of the room, avoiding the window. He touched the little man's arm.

"I say, you know," he said, "this won't do."

Wilderling smelt of gunpowder, and he was breathing hard as though he had been running desperately.
He quivered when Lawrence touched him.

"Go away!" he said, "you mustn't come here.... I'll get them yet--I tell you I'll get them
yet--I tell you I'll get them--Let them dare... Chiens... Chiens..." He jerked his rifle away
from the window and began, with trembling fingers, to load it again.

Lawrence gripped his arm. "When I did that," he said, "it felt as though there wasn't an arm
there at all, but just a bone which I could break if I pressed a bit harder."

"Come away!" he said. "You damn fool--don't you see that it's hopeless?"

"And I'd always been so respectful to him...." he added in parenthesis.

Wilderling hissed at him, saying no words, just drawing in his breath.

"I've got two of them," he whispered suddenly. "I'll get them all."

Then a bullet crashed through the window, burying itself in the opposite wall.

After that things happened so quickly that it was impossible to say in what order they occurred.
There was suddenly a tremendous noise in the flat.

"It was just as though the whole place was going to tumble about our ears. All the pots and
bottles began to jump about, and then another bullet came through, landed on the dressing-table,
and smashed everything. The looking-glass crashed, and the hair-oil was all over the place.
I rushed out to see what was happening in the hall...."

What "was happening" was that the soldiers had broken the hall door in. Lawrence saw then a
horrible thing. One of the men rushed forward and stuck Andre, who was standing, paralysed,
by the drawing-room door, in the stomach. The old man cried out "just like a shot rabbit,"
and stood there "for what seemed ages," with the blood pouring out of his middle.

That finished Lawrence. He rushed forward, and they would certainly have "stuck" him too if
someone hadn't cried out, "Look out, he's an Englishman--an Anglichanin--I know him."

After that, for a time, he was uncertain of anything. He struggled; he was held. He heard noises
around him--shouts or murmurs or sighs--that didn't seem to him to be connected with anything
human. He could not have said where he was nor what he was doing. Then, quite suddenly, everything
cleared. He came to himself with a consciousness of that utter weariness that he had felt before.
He was able to visualise the scene, to take it all in, but as a distant spectator. "It was
like nothing so much as watching a cinematograph," he told me. He could do nothing; he was
held by three soldiers, who apparently wished him to be a witness of the whole affair. Andre's
body lay there, huddled up in a pool of drying blood, that glistened under the electric light.
One of his legs was bent crookedly under him, and Lawrence had a strange mad impulse to thrust
his way forward and put it straight.

It was then, with a horrible sickly feeling, exactly like a blow in the stomach, that he realised
that the Baroness was there. She was standing, quite alone, at the entrance of the hall, looking
at the soldiers, who were about eight in number.

He heard her say, "What's happened? Who are you?..." and then in a sharper, more urgent voice,
"Where's my husband?"

Then she saw Andre.... She gave a sharp little cry, moved forward towards him, and stopped.

"I don't know what she did then," said Lawrence. "I think she suddenly began to run down the
passage. I know she was crying, 'Paul! Paul! Paul!'... I never saw her again."

The officer--an elderly kindly-looking man like a doctor or a lawyer (I am trying to give every
possible detail, because I think it important)--then came up to Lawrence and asked him some
questions:

"What was his name?"

"Jeremy Ralph Lawrence."

"He was an Englishman."

"Yes."

"Working at the British Embassy?"

"No, at the British Military Mission."

"He was officer?"

"Yes."

"In the British Army?"

"Yes. He had fought for two years in France."

"He had been lodging with Baron Wilderling?"

"Yes. Ever since he came to Russia."

The officer nodded his head. They knew about him, had full information. A friend of his, a
Mr. Boris Grogoff, had spoken of him.

The officer was then very polite, told him that they regretted extremely the inconvenience
and discomfort to which he might be put, but that they must detain him until this affair was
concluded--"which will be very soon" added the officer. He also added that he wished Lawrence
to be a witness of what occurred so that he should see that, under the new regime in Russia,
everything was just and straightforward.

"I tried to tell him," said Lawrence to me, "that Wilderling was off his head. I hadn't the
least hope, of course.... It was all quite clear, and, at such a time, quite just. Wilderling
had been shooting them out of his window.... The officer listened very politely, but when I
had finished he only shook his head. That was their affair he said.

"It was then that I realised Wilderling. He was standing quite close to me. He had obviously
been struggling a bit, because his shirt was all torn, and you could see his chest. He kept
moving his hand and trying to pull his shirt over; it was his only movement. He was as straight
as a dart, and except for the motion of his hand as still as a statue, standing between the
soldiers, looking directly in front of him. He had been mad in that other room, quite dotty.

"He was as sane as anything now, grave and serious and rather ironical, just as he always looked.
Well it was at that moment, when I saw him there, that I thought of Vera. I had been thinking
of her all the time of course. I had been thinking of nothing else for weeks. But that minute,
there in the hall, settled me. Callous, wasn't it? I ought to have been thinking only of Wilderling
and his poor old wife. After all, they'd been awfully good to me. She'd been almost like a
mother all the time.... But there it was. It came over me like a storm. I'd been fighting for
nights and days and days and nights not to go to her--fighting like hell, trying to play the
game the sentimentalists would call it. I suppose seeing the old man there and knowing what
they were going to do to him settled it. It was a sudden conviction, like a blow, that all
this thing was real, that they weren't playing at it, that any one in the town was as near
death as winking.... And so there it was! Vera! I'd got to get to her--at once--and never leave
her again until she was safe. I'd got to get to her! I'd got to get to her! I'd got to get
to her!... Nothing else mattered. Not Wilderling's death nor mine either, except that if I
was dead I'd be out of it and wouldn't be able to help her. They talk about men with one idea.
From that moment I had only one idea in all the world--I don't know that I've had any other
one since. They talk about scruples, moralities, traditions. They're all right, but there just
are moments in life when they simply don't count at all.... Vera was in danger--Well, that
was all that mattered.

"The officer said something to Wilderling. I heard Wilderling answer: "You're rebels against
His Majesty.... I wish I'd shot more of you!" Fine old boy, you know, whatever way you look at it.

"They moved him forward then. He went quite willingly, without any kind of resistance. They
motioned to me to follow. We walked out of the flat down the stairs, no one saying a word.
We went out on to the Quay. There was no one there. They stood him up against the wall, facing
the river. It was dark, and when he was against the wall he seemed to vanish,--only I got one
kind of gesture, a sort of farewell, you know, his grey hair waving in the breeze from the river.

"There was a report, and it was as though a piece of the wall slowly unsettled itself and fell
forward. No sound except the report. Oh, he was a fine old boy!

"The officer came up to me and said very politely:

"'You are free now, sir,' and something about regretting incivility, and something, I think,
about them perhaps wanting me again to give some sort of evidence. Very polite he was.

"I was mad, I suppose, I don't know. I believe I said something to him about Vera, which of
course he didn't understand.

"I know I wanted to run like hell to Vera to see that she was safe.

"But I didn't. I walked off as slowly as anything. It was awful. They'd been so good to me,
and yet I wasn't thinking of Wilderling at all...."

XIV

Markovitch on that same afternoon came back to the flat early. He also, like Lawrence, felt
the strange peace and tranquillity of the town, and it seemed inevitably like the confirmation
of all his dearest hopes. The Czar was gone, the Old Regime was gone, the people, smiling and
friendly, were maintaining their own discipline--above all, Vera had kissed him.

He did not go deeper into his heart and see how strained all their recent relations must have
been for this now to give him such joy. He left that--it simply was that at last he and Vera
understood one another, she had found that she cared for him after all, and that he was necessary
to her happiness. What that must mean for their future life together he simply dared not think....
It would change the world for him. He felt like the man in the story from whom the curse is
suddenly lifted....

He walked home through the quiet town, humming to himself. He fancied that there was a warmth
in the air, a strange kindly omen of spring, although the snow was still thick on the ground,
and the Neva a grey carpet of ice.

He came into the flat and found it empty. He went into his little room and started on his inventions.
He was so happy that he hummed to himself as he worked and cut slices off his pieces of wood,
and soaked flannel in bottles, and wrote funny little sentences in his abominable handwriting
in a red notebook.

One need not grudge it him, poor Markovitch. It was the last happy half-hour of his life.

He did not turn on his green-shaded lamp, but sat there in the gathering dusk, chipping up
the wood and sometimes stopping, idly lost in happy thoughts.

Some one came in. He peered through his little glass window and saw that it was Nina. She passed
quickly through the dining-room, beyond, towards her bedroom, without stopping to switch on
the light.

Nina had broken the spell. He went back to his table, but he couldn't work now, and he felt
vaguely uneasy and cold. He was just going to leave his work and find the Retch and settle
down to a comfortable read, when he heard the hall door close. He stood behind his little glass
window and watched; it was Vera, perhaps... it must be... his heart began eagerly to beat.

It was Vera. At once he saw that she was strangely agitated. Before she had switched on the
light he realised it. With a click the light was on. Markovitch had intended to open his door
and go out to her, smiling. He saw at once that she was waiting for some one.... He stood,
trembling, on tiptoe, his face pressed against the glass of the pane.

Lawrence came in. He had the face, Markovitch told me many weeks afterwards, "of a triumphant man."

They had obviously met outside, because Vera said, as though continuing a conversation:

"And it's only just happened?"

"I've come straight from there," Lawrence answered.

Then he went up to her. She let herself at once go to him and he half carried her to a chair
near the table and exactly opposite Markovitch's window.

They kissed "like people who had been starving all their lives." Markovitch was trembling so
that he was afraid lest he should tumble or make some noise. The two figures in the chair were
like statues in their immobile, relentless, unswerving embrace.

Suddenly he saw that Nina was standing in the opposite doorway "like a ghost." She was there
for so brief a moment that he could not be sure that she had been there at all. Only her white,
frightened face remained with him.

One of his thoughts was:

"This is the end of my life."

Another was:

"How could they be so careless, with the light on, and perhaps people in the flat!"

And after that:

"They need it so much that they don't care who sees--Starved people...."

And after that:

"I'm starved too."

He was so cold that his teeth were chattering, and he crept back from his window, crept into
the farthest farthest corner of his little room, and crouched there on the floor, staring and
staring, but seeing nothing at all.

PART III

MARKOVITCH AND SEMYONOV

MARKOVITCH AND SEMYONOV.

I

On the evening of that very afternoon, Thursday, I again collapsed. I was coming home in the
dusk through a whispering world. All over the streets, everywhere on the broad shining snow,
under a blaze of stars so sharp and piercing that the sky seemed strangely close and intimate,
the talk went on. Groups everywhere and groups irrespective of all class distinction--a well-to-do
woman in rich furs, a peasant woman with a shawl over her head, a wild, bearded soldier, a
stout, important officer, a maid-servant, a cab-driver, a shopman--talking, talking, talking,
talking.... The eagerness, the ignorance, the odd fairy-tale world spun about those groups,
so that the coloured domes of the churches, the silver network of the stars, the wooden booths,
the mist of candles before the Ikons, the rough painted pictures on the shops advertising the
goods sold within--all these things shared in that crude idealistic, cynical ignorance, in
that fairy-tale of brutality, goodness, cowardice, and bravery, malice and generosity, superstition
and devotion that was so shortly to be offered to a materialistic, hard-fighting, brave and
unthinking Europe!...

That, however, was not now my immediate business--enough of that presently. My immediate business,
as I very quickly discovered, was to pluck up enough strength to drag my wretched body home.
The events of the week had, I suppose, carried me along. I was to suffer now the inevitable
reaction. I felt exactly as though I had been shot from a gun and landed, suddenly, without
breath, without any strength in any of my limbs in a new and strange world. I was standing,
when I first realised my weakness, beside the wooden booths in the Sadovaya. They were all
closed of course, but along the pavement women and old men had baskets containing sweets and
notepaper and red paper tulips offered in memory of the glorious Revolution. Right across the
Square the groups of people scattered in little dusky pools against the snow, until they touched
the very doors of the church.... I saw all this, was conscious that the stars and the church
candles mingled... then suddenly I had to clutch the side of the booth behind me to prevent
myself from falling. My head swam, my limbs were as water, and my old so well-remembered friend
struck me in the middle of the spine as though he had cut me in two with his knife. How was
I ever to get home? No one noticed me--indeed they seemed to my sick eyes to have ceased to
be human. Ghosts in a ghostly world, the snow gleaming through them so that they only moved
like a thin diaphanous veil against the wall of the sky... I clutched my booth. In a moment
I should be down. The pain in my back was agony, my legs had ceased to exist, and I was falling
into a dark, dark pool of clear jet-black water, at the bottom of which lay a star....

The strange thing is that I do not know who it was who rescued me. I know that some one came.
I know that to my own dim surprise an Isvostchick was there and that very feebly I got into
it. Some one was with me. Was it my black-bearded peasant? I fancy now that it was. I can even,
on looking back, see him sitting up, very large and still, one thick arm holding me. I fancy
that I can still smell the stuff of his clothes. I fancy that he talked to me, very quietly,
reassuring me about something. But, upon my word, I don't know. One can so easily imagine what
one wants to be true, and now I want, more than I would then ever have believed to be possible,
to have had actual contact with him. It is the only conversation between us that can ever have
existed: never, before or after, was there another opportunity. And in any case there can scarcely
have been a conversation, because I certainly said nothing, and I cannot remember anything
that he said, if indeed he said anything at all. At any rate I was there in the Sadovaya, I
was in a cab, I was in my bed. The truth of the rest of it any one may decide for himself....

II

That Thursday was March 15. I was conscious of my existence again on Sunday, April 1st. I opened
my eyes and saw that there was a thaw. That was the first thing of which I was aware--that
water was apparently dripping on every side of me. It is a strange sensation to lie on your
bed very weak, and very indifferent, and to feel the world turning to moisture all about you....
My ramshackle habitation had never been a very strong defence against the outside world. It
seemed now to have definitely decided to abandon the struggle. The water streamed down the
panes of my window opposite my bed. One patch of my ceiling (just above my only bookcase, confound
it!) was coloured a mouldy grey, and from this huge drops like elephant's tears, splashed monotonously.
(Already The Spirit of Man was disfigured by a long grey streak, and the green back of Galleon's
Roads was splotched with stains.) Some one had placed a bucket near the door to catch a perpetual
stream flowing from the corner of the room. Down into the bucket it pattered with a hasty,
giggling, hysterical jiggle. I rather liked the companionship of it. I didn't mind it at all.
I really minded nothing whatever.... I sighed my appreciation of my return to life. My sigh
brought some one from the corner of my room and that some one was, of course, the inevitable
Eat. He came up to my bed in his stealthy, furtive fashion, and looked at me reproachfully.
I asked him, my voice sounding to myself strange and very far away, what he was doing there.
He answered that if it had not been for him I should be dead. He had come early one morning
and found me lying in my bed and no one in the place at all. No one--because the old woman
had vanished. Yes, the neighbours had told him. Apparently on that very Thursday she had decided
that the Revolution had given her her freedom, and that she was never going to work for anybody
ever again. She had told a woman-neighbour that she heard that the land now was going to be
given back to everybody, and she was returning therefore to her village somewhere in the Moscow
Province. She had not been back there for twenty years. And first, to celebrate her liberty,
she would get magnificently drunk on furniture polish.

"I did not see her of course," said the Rat. "No. When I came, early in the morning, no one
was here. I thought that you were dead, Barin, and I began collecting your property, so that
no one else should take it. Then you made a movement, and I saw that you were alive--so I got
some cabbage soup and gave it you. That certainly saved you.... I'm going to stay with you now."

I did not care in the least whether he went or stayed. He chattered on. By staying with me
he would inevitably neglect his public duties. Perhaps I didn't know that he had public duties?
Yes, he was now an Anarchist, and I should be astonished very shortly, by the things the Anarchists
would do. All the same, they had their own discipline. They had their own processions, too,
like any one else. Only four days ago he had marched all over Petrograd carrying a black flag.
He must confess that he was rather sick of it. But they must have processions.... Even the
prostitutes had marched down the Nevski the other day demanding shorter hours.

But of course I cannot remember all that he said. During the next few days I slowly pulled
myself out of the misty dead world in which I had been lying. Pain came back to me, leaping
upon me and then receding, finally, on the third day suddenly leaving me altogether. The Rat
fed me on cabbage soup and glasses of tea and caviare and biscuits. During those three days
he never left me, and indeed tended me like a woman. He would sit by my bed and with his rough
hand stroke my hair, while he poured into my ears ghastly stories of the many crimes that he
had committed. I noticed that he was cleaner and more civilised. His beard was clipped and
he smelt of cabbage and straw--a rather healthy smell. One morning he suddenly took the pail,
filled it with water and washed himself in front of my windows. He scrubbed himself until I
should have thought that he had no skin left.

"You're a fine big man, Rat," I said.

He was delighted with that, and came quite near my bed, stretching his naked body, his arms
and legs and chest, like a pleased animal.

"Yes, I'm a fine man, Barin," he said; "many women have loved me, and many will again..." Then
he went back, and producing clean drawers and vest from somewhere (I suspect that they were
mine but I was too weak to care), put them on.

On the second and third days I felt much better. The thaw was less violent, the wood crackled
in my stove. On the morning of Wednesday April 14 I got up, dressed, and sat in front of my
window. The ice was still there, but over it lay a faint, a very faint, filmy sheen of water.
It was a day of gleams, the sun flashing in and out of the clouds. Just beneath my window a
tree was pushing into bud. Pools of water lay thick on the dirty melting snow. I got the Rat
to bring a little table and put some books on it. I had near me The Spirit of Man, Keats's
Letters, The Roads, Beddoes, and Pride and Prejudice. A consciousness of the outer world crept,
like warmth, through my bones.

"Rat," I said, "who's been to see me?"

"No one," said he.

I felt suddenly a ridiculous affront.

"No one?" I asked, incredulous.

"No one," he answered. "They've all forgotten you, Barin," he added maliciously, knowing that
that would hurt me.

It was strange how deeply I cared. Here was I who, only a short while before, had declared
myself done with the world for ever, and now I was almost crying because no one had been to
see me! Indeed, I believe in my weakness and distress I actually did cry. No one at all? Not
Vera nor Nina nor Jeremy nor Bohun? Not young Bohun even...? And then slowly my brain realised
that there was now a new world. None of the old conditions held any longer.

We had been the victims of an earthquake. Now it was--every man for himself! Quickly then there
came upon me an eager desire to know what had happened in the Markovitch family. What of Jerry
and Vera? What of Nicholas? What of Semyonov...?

"Rat," I said, "this afternoon I am going out!"

"Very well, Barin," he said, "I, too, have an engagement."

In the afternoon I crept out like an old sick man. I felt strangely shy and nervous. When I
reached the corner of Ekateringofsky Canal and the English Prospect I decided not to go in
and see the Markovitches. For one thing I shrank from the thought of their compassion. I had
not shaved for many days. I was that dull sickly yellow colour that offends the taste of all
healthy vigorous people. I did not want their pity. No.... I would wait until I was stronger.

My interest in life was reviving with every step that I took. I don't know what I had expected
the outside world to be. This was April 14. It was nearly a month since the outburst of the
Revolution, and surely there should be signs in the streets of the results of such a cataclysm.
There were, on the surface, no signs. There was the same little cinema on the canal with its
gaudy coloured posters, there was the old woman sitting at the foot of the little bridge with
her basket of apples and bootlaces, there was the same wooden hut with the sweets and the fruit,
the same figures of peasant women, soldiers, boys hurrying across the bridge, the same slow,
sleepy Isvostchick stumbling along carelessly. One sign there was. Exactly opposite the little
cinema, on the other side of the canal, was a high grey block of flats. This now was starred
and sprayed with the white marks of bullets. It was like a man marked for life with smallpox.
That building alone was witness to me that I had not dreamt the events of that week.

The thaw made walking very difficult. The water poured down the sides of the houses and gurgled
in floods through the pipes. The snow was slippery under the film of gleaming wet, and there
were huge pools at every step. Across the middle of the English Prospect, near the Baths, there
was quite a deep lake....

I wandered slowly along, enjoying the chill warmth of the soft spring sun. The winter was nearly
over! Thank God for that! What had happened during my month of illness? Perhaps a great Revolutionary
army had been formed, and a mighty, free, and united Russia was going out to save the world!
Oh, I did hope that it was so! Surely that wonderful white week was a good omen. No Revolution
in history had started so well as this one....

I found my way at last very slowly to the end of the Quay, and the sight of the round towers
of my favourite church was like the reassuring smile of an old friend. The sun was dropping
low over the Neva. The whole vast expanse of the river was coloured very faintly pink. Here,
too, there was the film of the water above the ice; the water caught the colour, but the ice
below it was grey and still. Clouds of crimson and orange and faint gold streamed away in great
waves of light from the sun. The long line of buildings and towers on the farther side was
jet-black; the masts of the ships clustering against the Quay were touched at their tips with
bright gold. It was all utterly still, not a sound nor a movement anywhere; only one figure,
that of a woman, was coming slowly towards me. I felt, as one always does at the beginning
of a Russian spring, a strange sense of expectation. Spring in Russia is so sudden and so swift
that it gives an overwhelming impression of a powerful organising Power behind it. Suddenly
the shutters are pulled back and the sun floods the world! Upon this afternoon one could feel
the urgent business of preparation pushing forward, arrogantly, ruthlessly. I don't think that
I had ever before realised the power of the Neva at such close quarters. I was almost ashamed
at the contrast of its struggle with my own feebleness.

I saw then that the figure coming towards me was Nina.

III

As she came nearer I saw that she was intensely preoccupied. She was looking straight in front
of her but seeing nothing. It was only when she was quite close to me that I saw that she was
crying. She was making no sound. Her mouth was closed; the tears were slowly, helplessly, rolling
down her cheeks.

She was very near to me indeed before she saw me; then she looked at me closely before she
recognised me. When she saw that it was I, she stopped, fumbled for her handkerchief, which
she found, wiped her eyes, then turned away from me and looked out over the river.

"Nina, dear," I said, "what's the matter?"

She didn't answer; at length she turned round and said:

"You've been ill again, haven't you?"

One cheek had a dirty tear-stain on it, which made her inexpressibly young and pathetic and
helpless.

"Yes," I said, "I have."

She caught her breath, put out her hand, and touched my arm.

"Oh, you do look ill!... Vera went to ask, and there was a rough-looking man there who said
that no one could see you, but that you were all right.... One of us ought to have forced a
way in--M. Bohun wanted to--but we've all been thinking of ourselves."

"What's the matter, Nina?" I asked. "You've been crying."

"Nothing's the matter. I'm all right."

"No, you're not. You ought to tell me. You trusted me once."

"I don't trust any one," she answered fiercely. "Especially not Englishmen."

"What's the matter?" I asked again.

"Nothing.... We're just as we were. Except," she suddenly looked up at me, "Uncle Alexei's
living with us now."

"Semyonov!" I cried out sharply, "living with you!"

"Yes," she went on, "in the room where Nicholas had his inventions is Uncle Alexei's bedroom."

"Why, in Heaven's name?" I cried.

"Uncle Alexei wanted it. He said he was lonely, and then he just came. I don't know whether
Nicholas likes it or not. Vera hates it, but she agreed at once."

"And do you like it?" I asked.

"I like Uncle Alexei," she answered. "We have long talks. He shows me how silly I've been."

"Oh!" I said... "and what about Nicholas' inventions?"

"He's given them up for ever." She looked at me doubtfully, as though she were wondering whether
she could trust me. "He's so funny now--Nicholas, I mean. You know he was so happy when the
Revolution came. Now he's in a different mood every minute. Something's happened to him that
we don't know about."

"What kind of thing?" I asked.

"I don't know. He's seen something or heard something. It's some secret he's got. But Uncle
Alexei knows."

"How can you tell?"

"Because he's always saying things that make Nicholas angry, and we can't see anything in them
at all.... Uncle Alexei's very clever."

"Yes, he is," I agreed. "But you haven't told me why you were crying just now."

She looked at me. She gave a little shiver. "Oh, you do look ill!... Everything's going wrong
together, isn't it?"

And with that she suddenly left me, hurrying away from me, leaving me miserable and apprehensive
of some great trouble in store for all of us.

IV

It is impossible to explain how disturbed I was by Nina's news. Semyonov living in the flat!
He must have some very strong reason for this, to leave his big comfortable flat for the pokiness
of the Markovitches'!

And then that the Markovitches should have him! There were already inhabitants enough--Nicholas,
Vera, Nina, Uncle Ivan, Bohun. Then the inconvenience and discomfort of Nicholas's little hole
as a bedroom! How Semyonov must loathe it!

From that moment the Markovitches' flat became for me the centre of my drama. Looking back
I could see now how all the growing development of the story had centred round those rooms.
I did not of course know at this time of that final drama of the Thursday afternoon, but I
knew of the adventure with the policeman, and it seemed to me that the flat was a cup into
which the ingredients were being poured one after another until at last the preparation would
be complete, and then....

Oh, but I cared for Nina and Vera and Nicholas--yes, and Jerry too! I wanted to see them happy
and at peace before I left them--in especial Nicholas.

And Semyonov came closer to them and closer, following some plan of his own and yet, after
all, finally like a man driven by a power, constructed it might be, out of his own very irony.

I made a kind of bet with fate that by Easter Day every one should be happy by then.

Next day, the 15th of April, was the great funeral for the victims of the Revolution. I believe,
although of course at that time I had heard nothing, that there had been great speculation
about the day, many people thinking that it would be an excuse for further trouble, the Monarchists
rising, or the "Soviet" attacking the Provisional Government, or Milyukoff and his followers
attacking the Soviet. They need not have been alarmed. No one had as yet realised the lengths
that Slavonic apathy may permit itself....

I went down about half-past ten to the Square at the end of the Sadovaya and found it filled
with a vast concourse of peasants, not only the Square was filled, but the Sadovaya as far
as the eye could see. They were arranged in perfect order, about eight in a row, arm in arm.
Every group carried its banner, and far away into the distance one could see the words "Freedom,"
"Brotherhood," "The Land for All," "Peace of the World," floating on the breeze. Nevertheless,
in spite of these fine words, it was not a very cheering sight. The day was wretched--no actual
rain, but a cold damp wind blowing and the dirty snow, half ice and half water; the people
themselves were not inspiring. They were all, it seemed, peasants. I saw very few workmen,
although I believe that multitudes were actually in the procession. Those strange, pale, Eastern
faces, passive, apathetic, ignorant, childish, unreasoning, stretched in a great cloud under
the grey overhanging canopy of the sky. They raised if once and again a melancholy little tune
that was more wail than anything else. They had stood there, I was told, in pools of frozen
water for hours, and were perfectly ready to stand thus for many hours more if they were ordered
to do so. As I regarded their ignorance and apathy I realised for the first time something
of what the Revolution had already done.

A hundred million of these children--ignorant, greedy, pathetic, helpless, revengeful--let
loose upon the world! Where were their leaders? Who, indeed, would their leaders be? The sun
sometimes broke through for a moment, but the light that it threw on their faces only made
them more pallid, more death-like. They did not laugh nor joke as our people at home would
have done.... I believe that very few of them had any idea why they were there....

Suddenly the word came down the lines to move forward. Very slowly, wailing their little tune,
they advanced.

But the morning was growing old and I must at once see Vera. I had made up my mind, during
the night, to do anything that lay in my power to persuade Vera and Nina to leave their flat.
The flat was the root of all their trouble, there was something in its atmosphere, something
gloomy and ominous. They would be better at the other end of the town, or, perhaps, over on
the Vassily Ostrov. I would show Vera that it was a fatal plan to have Semyonov to live with
them (as in all probability she herself knew well enough), and their leaving the flat was a
very good excuse for getting rid of him. I had all this in my head as I went along. I was still
feeling ill and feeble, and my half-hour's stand in the market-place had seriously exhausted
me. I had to lean against the walls of the houses every now and then; it seemed to me that,
in the pale watery air, the whole world was a dream, the high forbiding flats looking down
on to the dirty ice of the canals, the water dripping, dripping, dripping.... No one was about.
Every one had gone to join in the procession. I could see it, with my mind's eye, unwinding
its huge tails through the watery-oozing channels of the town, like some pale-coloured snake,
crawling through the misty labyrinths of a marsh.

In the flat I found only Uncle Ivan sitting very happily by himself at the table playing patience.
He was dressed very smartly in his English black suit and a black bow tie. He behaved with
his usual elaborate courtesy to me but, to my relief, on this occasion, he spoke Russian.

It appeared that the Revolution had not upset him in the least. He took, he assured me, no
interest whatever in politics. The great thing was "to live inside oneself," and by living
inside oneself he meant, I gathered, that one should be entirely selfish. Clothes were important,
and food and courteous manners, but he must say that he could not see that one would be very
much worse off even though one were ruled by the Germans--one might, indeed, be a great deal
more comfortable. And as to this Revolution he couldn't really understand why people made such
a fuss. One class or another class what did it matter? (As to this he was, I fear, to be sadly
undeceived. He little knew that, before the year was out, he would be shovelling snow in the
Morskaia for a rouble an hour.) So centred was he upon himself that he did not notice that
I looked ill. He offered me a chair, indeed, but that was simply his courteous manners. Very
ridiculous, he thought, the fuss that Nicholas made about the Revolution--very ridiculous the
fuss that he made about everything....

Alexei had been showing Nicholas how ridiculous he was.

"Oh, has he?" said I. "How's he been doing that?"

Laughing at him, apparently. They all laughed at him. It was his own fault.

"Alexei's living with us now, you know."

"Yes, I know," I said, "what's he doing that for?"

"He wanted to," said Uncle Ivan simply. "He's always done what he's wanted to, all his life."

"It makes it a great many of you in one small flat."

"Yes, doesn't it?" said Uncle Ivan amiably. "Very pleasant--although, Ivan Andreievitch, I
will admit to you quite frankly that I've always been frightened of Alexei. He has such a very
sharp tongue. He discovers one's weak spots in a marvellous manner.... We all have weak spots
you know," he added apologetically.

"Yes, we have," I said.

Then, to my relief, Vera came in. She was very sweet to me, expressing much concern about my
illness, asking me to stay and have my meal with them.... She suddenly broke off. There was
a letter lying on the table addressed to her. I saw at once that it was in Nina's handwriting.

"Nina! Writing to me!" She picked it up, stood back looking at the envelope before she opened
it. She read it, then turned on me with a cry.

"Nina!... She's gone!"

"Gone!" I repeated, starting at once.

"Yes.... Read!" She thrust it into my hand.

In Nina's sprawling schoolgirl hand I read:

Dear Vera--I've left you and Nicholas for ever.... I have been thinking of this for a long
time, and now Uncle Alexei has shown me how foolish I've been, wanting something I can't have.
But I'm not a child any longer. I must lead my own life.... I'm going to live with Boris who
will take care of me. It's no use you or any one trying to prevent me. I will not come back.
I must lead my own life now. Nina.

Vera was beside herself.

"Quick! Quick! Some one must go after her. She must be brought back at once. Quick! Scora!
Scora!... I must go. No, she is angry with me. She won't listen to me. Ivan Andreievitch, you
must go. At once! You must bring her back with you. Darling, darling Nina!... Oh, my God, what
shall I do if anything happens to her!"

She clutched my arm. Even as she spoke, she had got my hat and stick.

"This is Alexei Petrovitch," I said.

"Never mind who it is," she answered. "She must be brought back at once. She is so young. She
doesn't know.... Boris--Oh! it's impossible. Don't leave without bringing her back with you."

Even old Uncle Ivan seemed distressed.

"Dear, dear..." he kept repeating, "dear, dear.... Poor little Nina. Poor little Nina--"

"Where does Grogoff live?" I asked.

"16 Gagarinskaya.... Flat 3. Quick. You must bring her back with you. Promise me."

"I will do my best," I said.

I found by a miracle of good fortune an Isvostchick in the street outside. We plunged along
through the pools of water in the direction of the Gagarinskaya. That was a horrible drive.
In the Sadovaya we met the slow, winding funeral procession.

On they went, arm in arm, the same little wailing tune, monotonously repeating, but sounding
like nothing human, rather exuding from the very cobbles of the road and the waters of the
stagnant canals.

The march of the peasants upon Petrograd! I could see them from all the quarters of the town,
converging upon the Marsovoie Pole, stubborn, silent, wraiths of earlier civilisation, omens
of later dominations. I thought of Boris Grogoff. What did he, with all his vehemence and conceit,
intend to do with these? First he would flatter them--I saw that clearly enough. But then when
his flatteries failed, what then? Could he control them? Would they obey him? Would they obey
anybody until education had shown them the necessities for co-ordination and self-discipline?
The river at last was overflowing its banks--would not the savage force of its power be greater
than any one could calculate? The stream flowed on.... My Isvostchick took his cab down a side
street, and then again met the strange sorrowful company. From this point I could see several
further bridges and streets, and over them all I saw the same stream flowing, the same banners
blowing--and all so still, so dumb, so patient.

The delay was maddening. My thoughts were all now on Nina. I saw her always before me as I
had beheld her yesterday, walking slowly along, her eyes fixed on space, the tears trickling
down her face. "Life," Nikitin once said to me, "I sometimes think is like a dark room, the
door closed, the windows bolted and your enemy shut in with you. Whether your enemy or yourself
is the stronger who knows?... Nor does it matter, as the issue is always decided outside....
Knowing that you can at least afford to despise him."

I felt something of that impotence now. I cursed the Isvostchick, but wherever he went this
slow endless stream seemed to impede our way. Poor Nina! Such a baby! What was it that had
driven her to this? She did not love the man, and she knew quite well that she did not. No,
it was an act of defiance. But defiance to whom--to Vera? to Lawrence?... and what had Semyonov
said to her?

Then, thank Heaven, we crossed the Nevski, and our way was clear. The old cabman whipped up
his horse and, in a minute or two we were outside 16 Gagarinskaya. I will confess to very real
fears and hesitations as I climbed the dark stairs (the lift was, of course, not working).
I was not the kind of man for this kind of job. In the first place I hated quarrels, and knowing
Grogoff's hot temper I had every reason to expect a tempestuous interview. Then I was ill,
aching in every limb and seeing everything, as I always did when I was unwell, mistily and
with uncertainty. Then I had a very shrewd suspicion that there was considerable truth in what
Semyonov had said, that I was interfering in what only remotely concerned me. At any rate,
that was certainly the view that Grogoff would take, and Nina, perhaps also. I felt, as I rang
the bell of No. 3, that unpleasant pain in the pit of the stomach that tells you that you're
going to make a fool of yourself.

Well, it would not be for the first time.

"Boris Nicolaievitch, doma?" I asked the cross-looking old woman who opened the door.

"Doma," she answered, holding it open to let me pass.

I was shown into a dark, untidy sitting-room. It seemed at first sight to be littered with
papers, newspapers, Revolutionary sheets and proclamations, the Pravda, the Novaya Jezn, the
Soldatskaya Mwyssl.... On the dirty wall-paper there were enormous dark photographs, in faded
gilt frames, of family groups; on one wall there was a large garishly coloured picture of Grogoff
himself in student's dress. The stove was unlighted and the room was very cold. My heart ached
for Nina.

A moment after Grogoff came in. He came forward to me very amiably, holding out his hand.

"Nu, Ivan Andreievitch.... What can I do for you?" he asked, smiling.

And how he had changed! He was positively swollen with self-satisfaction. He had never been
famous for personal modesty, but he seemed now to be physically twice his normal size. He was
fat, his cheeks puffed, his stomach swelling beneath the belt that bound it. His fair hair
was long, and rolled in large curls on one side of his head and over his forehead. He spoke
in a loud, overbearing voice.

"Nu, Ivan Andreievitch, what can I do for you?" he repeated.

"Can I see Nina?" I asked.

"Nina?..." he repeated as though surprised. "Certainly--but what do you want to say to her?"

"I don't see that that's your business," I answered. "I have a message for her from her family."

"But of course it's my business," he answered. "I'm looking after her now."

"Since when?" I asked.

"What does that matter?... She is going to live with me."

"We'll see about that," I said.

I knew that it was foolish to take this kind of tone. It could do no good, and I was not the
sort of man to carry it through.

But he was not at all annoyed.

"See, Ivan Andreievitch," he said, smiling. "What is there to discuss? Nina and I have long
considered living together. She is a grown-up woman. It's no one's affair but her own."

"Are you going to marry her?" I asked.

"Certainly not," he answered; "that would not suit either of us. It's no good your bringing
your English ideas here, Ivan Andreievitch. We belong to the new world, Nina and I."

"Well, I want to speak to her," I answered.

"So you shall, certainly. But if you hope to influence her at all you are wasting your time,
I assure you. Nina has acted very rightly. She found the home life impossible. I'm sure I don't
wonder. She will assist me in my work. The most important work, perhaps, that man has ever
been called on to perform...."

He raised his voice here as though he were going to begin a speech. But at that moment Nina
came in. She stood in the doorway looking across at me with a childish mixture of hesitation
and boldness, of anger and goodwill in her face. Her cheeks were pale, her eyes heavy. Her
hair was done in two long plaits. She looked about fourteen.

She came up to me, but she didn't offer me her hand. Boris said:

"Nina dear, Ivan Andreievitch has come to give you a message from your family." There was a
note of scorn in his voice as he repeated my earlier sentence.

"What is it?" she asked, looking at me defiantly.

"I'd like to give it you alone," I said.

"Whatever you say to me it is right that Boris should hear," she answered.

I tried to forget that Grogoff was there. I went on:

"Well then, Nina, you must know what I want to say. They are heartbroken at your leaving them.
You know of course that they are. They beg you to come back.... Vera and Nicholas too. They
simply won't know what to do without you. Vera says that you have been angry with her. She
doesn't know why, but she says that she will do her very best if you come back, so that you
won't be angry any more.... Nina, dear, you know that it is they whom you really love. You
never can be happy here. You know that you cannot.... Come back to them! Come back! I don't
know what it was that Alexei Petrovitch said to you, but whatever it was you should not listen
to it. He is a bad man and only means harm to your family. He does indeed...."

I paused. She had never moved whilst I was speaking. Now she only said, shaking her head, "It's
no good, Ivan Andreievitch.... It's no good."

"But why? Why?" I asked. "Give me your reasons, Nina."

She answered proudly, "I don't see why I should give you any reasons, Ivan Andreievitch. I
am free. I can do as I wish."

"There's something behind this that I don't know," I said. "I ought to know.... It isn't fair
not to tell me. What did Alexei Petrovitch say to you?"

But she only shook her head.

"He had nothing to do with this. It is my affair, Ivan Andreievitch. I couldn't live with Vera
and Nicholas any longer."

Grogoff then interfered.

"I think this is about enough...." he said. "I have given you your opportunity. Nina has been
quite clear in what she has said. She does not wish to return. There is your answer." He cleared
his voice and went on in rather a higher tone: "I think you forget, Ivan Andreievitch, another
aspect of this affair. It is not only a question of our private family disputes. Nina has come
here to assist me in my national work. As a member of the Soviet I may, without exaggeration,
claim to have an opportunity in my hands that has been offered in the past to few human beings.
You are an Englishman, and so hidebound with prejudices and conventions. You may not be aware
that there has opened this week the greatest war the world has ever seen--the war of the proletariats
against the bourgeoisies and capitalists of the world." I tried to interrupt him, but he went
on, his voice ever rising and rising: "What is your wretched German war? What but a struggle
between the capitalists of the different countries to secure greater robberies and extortions,
to set their feet more firmly than ever on the broad necks of the wretched People! Yes, you
English, with your natural hypocrisy, pretend that you are fighting for the freedom of the
world. What about Ireland? What about India? What about South Africa?... No, you are all alike.
Germany, England, Italy, France, and our own wretched Government that has, at last, been destroyed
by the brave will of the People. We declare a People's War!... We cry aloud to the People to
throw down their arms! And the People will hear us!"

He paused for breath. His arms were raised, his eyes on fire, his cheeks crimson.

"Yes," I said, "that is all very well. But suppose the German people are the only ones who
refuse to listen to you. Suppose that all the other nations, save Germany, have thrown down
their arms--a nice chance then for German militarism!"

"But the German people will listen!" he screamed, almost frothing at the mouth. "They are ready
at any moment to follow our example. William and your George and the rest of them--they are
doomed, I tell you!"

"Nevertheless," I went on, "if you desert us now by making peace and Germany wins this war
you will have played only a traitor's part, and all the world will judge you."

"Traitor! Traitor!" The word seemed to madden him. "Traitor to whom, pray? Traitor to our Czar
and your English king? Yes, and thank God for it! Did the Russian people make the war? They
were led like lambs to the slaughter. Like lambs, I tell you. But now they will have their
revenge. On all the Bourgeoisie of the world. The Bourgeoisie of the world!..."

He suddenly broke off, flinging himself down on the dirty sofa. "Pheugh. Talking makes one
hot!... Have a drink, Ivan Andreievitch.... Nina, fetch a drink."

Through all this my eyes had never left her for a moment. I had hoped that this empty tub-thumping
to which we had been listening would have affected her. But she had not moved nor stirred.

"Nina!" I said softly. "Nina. Come with me!"

But she only shook her head. Grogoff, quite silent now, lolled on the sofa, watching us. I
went up to her and put my hand on her sleeve.

"Dear Nina," I said, "come back to us."

I saw her lip tremble. There was unshed tears in her eyes. But again she shook her head.

"What have they done," I asked, "to make you take this step?"

"Something has happened...." she said slowly. "I can't tell you."

"Just come and talk to Vera."

"No, it's hopeless... I can't see her again. But, Durdles... tell her it's not her fault."

At the sound of my pet name I took courage again.

"But tell me, Nina.... Do you love this man?"

She turned round and looked at Grogoff as though she were seeing him for the first time.

"Love?... Oh no, not love! But he will be kind to me, I think. And I must be myself, be a woman,
not a child any longer."

Then, suddenly clearing her voice, speaking very firmly, looking me full in the face, she said:

"Tell Vera... that I saw... what happened that Thursday afternoon--the Thursday of the Revolution
week. Tell her that--when you're alone with her. Tell her that--then she'll understand."

She turned and almost ran out of the room.

"Well, you see," said Grogoff smiling lazily from the sofa.

"That settles it."

"It doesn't settle it," I answered. "We shall never rest until we have got her back."

But, I had to go. There was nothing more just then to be done.

V

On my return I found Vera alone waiting for me with restless impatience.

"Well?" she said eagerly. Then when she saw that I was alone her face clouded.

"I trusted you--" she began.

"It's no good," I said at once. "Not for the moment. She's made up her mind. It's not because
she loved him nor, I think, for anything very much that her uncle said. She's got some idea
in her head. Perhaps you can explain it."

"I?" said Vera, looking at me.

"Yes. She gave me a message for you."

"What was it?" But even as she asked the question she seemed to fear the answer, because she
turned away from me.

"She told me to tell you that she saw what happened on the afternoon of the Thursday in Revolution
week. She said that then you would understand."

Vera looked at me with the strangest expression of defiance, fear, triumph.

"What did she see?"

"I don't know. That's what she told me."

Vera did a strange thing. She laughed.

"They can all know. I don't care. I want them to know. Nina can tell them all."

"Tell them what?"

"Oh, you'll hear with the rest. Uncle Alexei has done this. He told Nina because he hates me.
He won't rest until he ruins us all. But I don't care. He can't take from me what I've got.
He can't take from me what I've got.... But we must get her back, Ivan Andreievitch. She must
come back--"

Nicholas came in and then Semyonov and then Bohun.

Bohun, drawing me aside, whispered to me: "Can I come and see you? I must ask your advice--"

"To-morrow evening," I told him, and left.

Next day I was ill again. I had I suppose done too much the day before. I was in bed alone
all day. My old woman had suddenly returned without a word of explanation or excuse. She had
not, I am sure, even got so far as the Moscow Province. I doubt whether she had even left Petrograd.
I asked her no questions. I could tell of course that she had been drinking. She was a funny
old creature, wrinkled and yellow and hideous, very little different in any way from a native
in the wilds of Central Africa. The savage in her liked gay colours and trinkets, and she would
stick flowers in her hair and wear a tinkling necklace of bright red and blue beads. She had
a mangy dog, hairless in places and rheumy at the eyes, who was all her passion, and this creature
she would adore, taking it to sleep with her, talking to it by the hour together, pulling its
tail and twisting its neck so that it growled with rage--and then, when it growled, she, too,
would make strange noises as though sympathising with it.

She returned to me from no sort of sense of duty, but simply because, I think, she did not
know where else to go. She scowled on me and informed me that now that there had been the Revolution
everything was different; nevertheless the sight of my sick yellow face moved her as sickness
and misfortune always move every Russian, however old and debased he may be.

"You shouldn't have gone out walking," she said crossly. "That man's been here again?" referring
to the Rat, whom she hated.

"If it hadn't been for him," I said, "I would have died."

But she made the flat as cheerful as she could, lighting the stove, putting some yellow flowers
into a glass, dusting the Benois water-colour, putting my favourite books beside my bed.

When Henry Bohun came in he was surprised at the brightness of everything.

"Why, how cosy you are!" he cried.

"Ah, ha," I said, "I told you it wasn't so bad here."

He picked up my books, looked at Galleon's Roads and then Pride and Prejudice.

"It's the simplest things that last," he said. "Galleon's jolly good, but he's not simple enough.
Tess is the thing, you know, and Tono-Bungay, and The Nigger of the Narcissus... I usen't to
think so. I've grown older, haven't I?"

He had.

"What do you think of Discipline now?" I asked.

"Oh, Lord!" he blushed, "I was a young cuckoo."

"And what about knowing all about Russia after a week?"

"No--and that reminds me!" He drew his chair closer to my bed. "That's what I've come to talk
about. Do you mind if I gas a lot?"

"Gas as much as you like," I said.

"Well, I can't explain things unless I do.... You're sure you're not too seedy to listen?"

"Not a bit. It does me good," I told him.

"You see in a way you're really responsible. You remember, long ago, telling me to look after
Markovitch when I talked all that rot about caring for Vera?"

"Yes--I remember very well indeed."

"In a way it all started from that. You put me on to seeing Markovitch in quite a different
light. I'd always thought of him as an awfully dull dog with very little to say for himself,
and a bit loose in the top-story too. I thought it a terrible shame a ripping woman like Vera
having married him, and I used to feel sick with him about it. Then sometimes he'd look like
the devil himself, as wicked as sin, poring over his inventions, and you'd fancy that to stick
a knife in his back might be perhaps the best thing for everybody.

"Well, you explained him to me and I saw him different--not that I've ever got very much out
of him. I don't think that he either likes me or trusts me, and anyway he thinks me too young
and foolish to be of any importance--which I daresay I am. He told me, by the way, the other
day, that the only Englishman he thought anything of was yourself--"

"Very nice of him," I murmured.

"Yes, but not very flattering to me when I've spent months trying to be fascinating to him.
Anyhow, although I may be said to have failed in one way, I've got rather keen on the pursuit.
If I can't make him like me I can at least study him and learn something. That's a leaf out
of your book, Durward. You're always studying people, aren't you?"

"Oh, I don't know," I said.

"Yes, of course you are. Well, I'll tell you frankly I've got fond of the old bird. I don't
believe you could live at close quarters with any Russian, however nasty, and not get a kind
of affection for him. They're so damned childish."

"Oh yes, you could," I said. "Try Semyonov."

"I'm coming to him in a minute," said Bohun. "Well, Markovitch was most awfully unhappy. That's
one thing one saw about him at once--unhappy of course because Vera didn't love him and he
adored her. But there was more in it than that. He let himself go one night to me--the only
time he's ever talked to me really. He was drunk a bit, and he wanted to borrow money off me.
But there was more in it than that. He talked to me about Russia. That seemed to have been
his great idea when the war began that it was going to lead to the most marvellous patriotism
all through Russia. It seemed to begin like that, and do you know, Durward, as he talked I
saw that patriotism was at the bottom of everything, that you could talk about Internationalism
until you were blue in the face, and that it only began to mean anything when you'd learnt
first what nationality was--that you couldn't really love all mankind until you'd first learnt
to love one or two people close to you. And that you couldn't love the world as a vast democratic
state until you'd learnt to love your own little bit of ground, your own fields, your own river,
your own church tower. Markovitch had it all as plain as plain. 'Make your own house secure
and beautiful. Then it is ready to take its place in the general scheme. We Russians always
begin at the wrong end,' he said. 'We jump all the intermediate stages. I'm as bad as the rest.'
I know you'll say I'm so easily impressed, Durward, but he was wonderful that night--and so
right. So that as he talked I just longed to rush back and see that my village--Topright in
Wiltshire--was safe and sound with the highgate at the end of the village street, and the village
stores with the lollipop windows, and the green with the sheep on it, and the ruddy stream
with the small trout and the high Down beyond.... Oh well, you know what I mean--"

"I know," said I.

"I saw that the point of Markovitch was that he must have some ideal to live up to. If he couldn't
have Vera he'd have Russia, and if he couldn't have Russia he'd have his inventions. When we
first came along a month or two ago he'd lost Russia, he was losing Vera, and he wasn't very
sure about his inventions. A bad time for the old boy, and you were quite right to tell me
to look after him. Then came the Revolution, and he thought that everything was saved. Vera
and Russia and everything. Wasn't he wonderful that week? Like a child who has suddenly found
Paradise.... Could any Englishman ever be cheated like that by anything? Why a fellow would
be locked up for a loony if he looked as happy as Markovitch looked that week. It wouldn't
be decent.... Well, then...." He paused dramatically. "What's happened to him since, Durward?"

"How do you mean? What's happened to him since?" I asked.

"I mean just what I say. Something happened to him at the end of that week. I can put my finger
almost exactly on the day--the Thursday of that week. What was it? That's one of the things
I've come to ask you about?"

"I don't know. I was ill," I said.

"No, but has nobody told you anything?"

"I haven't heard a word," I said.

His face fell. "I felt sure you'd help me?" he said.

"Tell me the rest and perhaps I can put things together," I suggested.

"The rest is really Semyonov. The queerest things have been happening. Of course, the thing
is to get rid of all one's English ideas, isn't it? and that's so damned difficult. It's no
use saying an English fellow wouldn't do this or that. Of course he wouldn't.... Oh, they are
queer!"

He sighed, poor boy, with the difficulty of the whole affair.

"Giving them up in despair, Bohun, is as bad as thinking you understand them completely. Just
take what comes."

"Well, 'what came' was this. On that Thursday evening Markovitch was as though he'd been struck
in the face. You never saw such a change. Of course we all noticed it. White and sickly, saying
nothing to anybody. Next morning, quite early, Semyonov came over and proposed lodging with us.

"It absolutely took my breath away, but no one else seemed very astonished. What on earth did
he want to leave his comfortable flat and come to us for? We were packed tight enough as it
was. I never liked the feller, but upon my word I simply hated him as he sat there, so quiet,
stroking his beard and smiling at us in his sarcastic way.

"To my amazement Markovitch seemed quite keen about it. Not only agreed, but offered his own
room as a bedroom. 'What about your inventions?' some one asked him.

"'I've given them up,' he said, looking at us all just like a caged animal--'for ever.'

"I would have offered to retire myself if I hadn't been so interested, but this was all so
curious that I was determined to see it out to the end. And you'd told me to look after Markovitch.
If ever he'd wanted looking after it was now! I could see that Vera hated the idea of Semyonov
coming, but after Markovitch had spoken she never said a word. So then it was all settled."

"What did Nina do?" I asked.

"Nina? She never said anything either. At the end she went up to Semyonov and took his hand
and said, 'I'm so glad you're coming, Uncle Alexei,' and looked at Vera. Oh! they're all as
queer as they can be, I tell you!"

"What happened next?" I asked eagerly.

"Everything's happened and nothing's happened," he replied. "Nina's run away. Of course you
know that. What she did it for I can't imagine. Fancy going to a fellow like Grogoff! Lawrence
has been coming every day and just sitting there, not saying anything. Semyonov's amiable to
everybody--especially amiable to Markovitch. But he's laughing at him all the time I think.
Anyway he makes him mad sometimes, so that I think Markovitch is going to strike him. But of
course he never does.... Now here's a funny thing. This is really what I want to ask you most
about."

He drew his chair closer to my bed and dropped his voice as though he were going to whisper
a secret to me.

"The other night I was awake--about two in the morning it was--and wanted a book--so I went
into the dining-room. I'd only got bedroom slippers on and I was stopped at the door by a sound.
It was Semyonov sitting over by the further window, in his shirt and trousers, his beard in
his hands, and sobbing as though his heart would break. I'd never heard a man cry like that.
I hate hearing a man cry anyway. I've heard fellers at the Front when they're off their heads
or something... but Semyonov was worse than that. It was a strong man crying, with all his
wits about him.... Then I heard some words. He kept repeating again and again. 'Oh, my dear,
my dear, my dear!... Wait for me!... Wait for me! Wait for me!...' over and over again--awful!
I crept back to my room frightened out of my life. I've never known anything so awful. And
Semyonov of all people!

"It was like that man in Wuthering Heights. What's his name? Heathcliffe! I always thought
that was a bit of an exaggeration when he dashed his head against a tree and all that. But,
by Jove, you never know!... Now, Durward, you've got to tell me. You've known Semyonov for
years. You can explain. What's it all about, and what's he trying to do to Markovitch?"

"I can scarcely think what to tell you," I said at last. "I don't really know much about Semyonov,
and my guesses will probably strike you as insane."

"No, they won't," said Bohun. "I've learnt a bit lately."

"Semyonov," I said, "is a deep-dyed sensualist. All his life he's thought about nothing but
gratifying his appetites. That's simple enough--there are plenty of that type everywhere. But
unfortunately for him he's a very clever man, and like every Russian both a cynic and an idealist--a
cynic in facts because he's an idealist. He got everything so easily all through his life that
his cynicism grew and grew. He had wealth and women and position. He was as strong as a horse.
Every 'one gave way to him and he despised everybody. He went to the Front, and one day came
across a woman different from any other whom he had ever known."

"How different?" asked Bohun, because I paused.

"Different in that she was simpler and naïver and honester and better and more beautiful--"

"Better than Vera?" Bohun asked.

"Different," I said. "She was younger, less strong-willed, less clever, less passionate perhaps.
But alone--alone, in all the world. Every one must love her--No one could help it...."

I broke off again. Bohun waited.

I went on. "Semyonov saw her and snatched her from the Englishman to whom she was engaged.
I don't think she ever really loved the Englishman, but she loved Semyonov."

"Well?" said Bohun.

"She was killed. A stray shot, when she was giving tea to the men in the trenches.... It meant
a lot... to all of us. The Englishman was killed too, so he was all right. I think Semyonov
would have liked that same end; but he didn't get it, so he's remained desolate. Really desolate,
in a way that only your thorough sensualist can be. A beautiful fruit just within his grasp,
something at last that can tempt his jaded appetite. He's just going to taste it, when whisk!
it's gone, and gone, perhaps, into some one else's hands. How does he know? How does he know
anything? There may be another life--who can really prove there isn't? and when you've seen
something in the very thick and glow of existence, something more alive than life itself, and,
click! it's gone--well, it must have gone somewhere, mustn't it? Not the body only, but that
soul, that spirit, that individual personal expression of beauty and purity and loveliness?
Oh, it must be somewhere yet!... It must be!... At any rate he didn't know. And he didn't know
either that she might not have proved his idealism right after all. Ah! to your cynic there's
nothing more maddening! Do you think your cynic loves his cynicism? Not a bit of it! Not he!
But he won't be taken in by sham any more. That he swears....

"So it was with Semyonov. This girl might have proved the one real exception; she might have
lasted, she might have grown even more beautiful and more wonderful, and so proved his idealism
true after all. He doesn't know, and I don't know. But there it is. He's haunted by the possibility
of it all his days. He's a man now ruled by an obsession. He thinks of one thing and one thing
only, day and night. His sensuality has fallen away from him because women are dull--sterile
to him beside that perfect picture of the woman lost. Lost! he may recover her! He doesn't
know. The thought of death obsesses him. What is there in it? Is she behind there or no? Is
she behind there, maddening thought, with her Englishman?

"He must know. He must know. He calls to her--she won't come to him. What is he to do? Suicide?
No, to a proud man like Semyonov that's a miserable confession of weakness. How they'd laugh
at him, these other despicable human beings, if he did that! He'd prove himself as weak as
they. No, that's not for him. What then?

"This is a fantastic world, Bohun, and nothing is impossible for it. Suppose he were to select
some one, some weak and irritable and sentimental and disappointed man, some one whose every
foible and weakness he knew, suppose he were to place himself near him and so irritate and
confuse and madden him that at last one day, in a fury of rage and despair, that man were to
do for him what he is too proud to do for himself! Think of the excitement, the interest, the
food for his cynicism, the food for his conceit such a game would be to Semyonov. Is this going
to do it? Or this? Or this? Now I've got him far enough? Another five minutes!... Think of
the hairbreadth escapes, the check and counter check, the sense, above all, that to a man like
Semyonov is almost everything, that he is master of human emotions, that he can direct wretched,
weak human beings whither he will.

"And the other--the weak, disappointed, excitable man--can't you see that Semyonov has him
close to his hand, that he has only to stretch a finger--"

"Markovitch!" cried Bohun.

"Now you know," I said, "why you've got to stay on in that flat."

VI

I have said already, I think, that the instinctive motive of Vera's life was her independent
pride. Cling to that, and however the world might rock and toss around her she could not be
wrecked. Imagine, then, what she must have suffered during the weeks that followed her surrender
to Lawrence. Not that for a moment she intended to go back on her surrender, which was, indeed,
the proudest moment of her whole life. She never looked back for one second after that embrace,
she never doubted herself or him or the supreme importance of love itself; but the rest of
her--her tenderness, her fidelity, her loyalty, her self-respect--this was all tortured now
by the things that she seemed compelled to do. It must have appeared to her as though Fate,
having watched that complete abandonment, intended to deprive her of everything upon which
she had depended. She was, I think, a woman of very simple instincts. The things that had been
in her life--her love for Nina, her maternal tenderness for Nicholas, her sense of duty--remained
with her as strongly after that tremendous Thursday afternoon as they had been before it. She
did not see why they need be changed. She did not love Nina any the less because she loved
Lawrence; indeed, she had never loved Nina so intensely as on the night when she had realised
her love for Lawrence to the full, that night when they had sheltered the policeman. And she
had never pretended to love Nicholas. She had always told him that she did not love him. She
had been absolutely honest with him always, and he had often said to her, "If ever real love
comes into your life, Vera, you will leave me," and she had always answered him, "No, Nicholas,
why should I? I will never change. Why should I?"

She honestly thought that her love for Lawrence need not alter things. She would tell Nicholas,
of course, and then she would act as he wished. If she were not to see Lawrence she would not
see him--that would make no difference to her love for him. What she did not realise--and that
was strange after living with him for so long--was that he was always hoping that her tender
kindliness towards him would, one day, change into something more passionate. I think that,
subconsciously, she did realise it, and that was why she was, during those weeks before the
Revolution, so often uneasy and unhappy. But I am sure that definitely she never admitted it.

The great fact was that, as soon as possible, she must tell Nicholas all about it. And the
days went by, and she did not. She did not, partly because she had now some one else as well
as herself to consider. I believe that in those weeks between that Thursday and Easter Day
she never had one moment alone with Lawrence. He came, as Bohun had told me, to see them; he
sat there and looked at her, and listened and waited. She herself, I expect, prevented their
being alone. She was waiting for something to happen. Then Nina's flight overwhelmed everything.
That must have been the most awful thing. She never liked Grogoff, never trusted him, and had
a very clear idea of his character. But more awful to her than his weakness was her knowledge
that Nina did not love him. What could have driven her to do such a thing? She knew of her
affection for Lawrence, but she had, perhaps, never taken that seriously. How could Nina really
love Lawrence when he, so obviously, cared nothing at all for her? She reasoned then, as every
one always does, on the lines of her own character. She herself could never have cared seriously
for any one had there been no return. Her pride would not have allowed her....

But Nina had been the charge of her life. Before Nicholas, before her own life, before everything.
Nina was her duty, her sacred cause--and now she was betraying her trust! Something must be
done--but what? but what? She knew Nina well enough to realise that a false step would only
plunge her farther than ever into the business. It must have seemed to her indeed that because
of her own initial disloyalty the whole world was falling away from her.

Then there came Semyonov; I did not at this time at all sufficiently realise that her hatred
of her uncle--for it was hatred, more, much more than mere dislike--had been with her all her
life. Many months afterwards she told me that she could never remember a time when she had
not hated him. He had teased her when she was a very little girl, laughing at her naïve honesty,
throwing doubts on her independence, cynically ridiculing her loyalty. There had been one horrible
winter month (then ten or eleven years of age) when she had been sent to stay with him in Moscow.

He had a fine house near the Arbat, and he was living (although she did not of course know
anything about that at the time) with one of his gaudiest mistresses. Her mother and father
being dead she had no protection. She was defenceless. I don't think that he in any way perverted
her innocence. I except that he was especially careful to shield her from his own manner of
life (he had always his own queer tradition of honour which he effected indeed to despise),
but she felt more than she perceived. The house was garish, over-scented and over-lighted.
There were many gilt chairs and large pictures of naked women and numbers of coloured cushions.
She was desperately lonely. She hated the woman of the house, who tried, I have no doubt, to
be kind to her, and after the first week she was left to herself.

One night, long after she had gone to bed there was a row downstairs, one of the scenes common
enough between Semyonov and his women. Terrified, she went to the head of the stairs and heard
the smash of falling glass and her uncle's voice raised in a scream of rage and vituperation.
A great naked woman in a gold frame swung and leered at her in the lighted passage. She fled
back to her dark room and lay, for the rest of that night, trembling and quivering with her
head beneath the bed-clothes.

From that moment she feared her uncle as much as she hated him. Long afterwards came his influence
over Nicholas. No one had so much influence over Nicholas as he. Nicholas himself admitted
it. He was alternately charmed and frightened, beguiled and disgusted, attracted and repulsed.
Before the war Semyonov had, for a time, seen a good deal of them, and Nicholas steadily degenerated.
Then Semyonov was bored with it all and went off after other game more worthy of his doughty
spear. Then came the war, and Vera devoutedly hoped that her dear uncle would meet his death
at the hands of some patriotic Austrian. He did indeed for a time disappear from their lives,
and it seemed that he might never come back again. Then on that fateful Christmas Day he did
return, and Vera's worst fears were realised. She hated him all the more because of her impotence.
She could do nothing against him at all. She was never very subtle in her dealings with people,
and her own natural honesty made her often stupid about men's motives. But the thing for which
she feared her uncle most was his, as it seemed to her, supernatural penetration into the thoughts
of others.

She of course greatly exaggerated his gifts in that direction simply because they were in no
way her gifts, and he, equally of course, discovered very early in their acquaintance that
this was the way to impress her. He played tricks with her exactly as a conjurer produces a
rabbit out of a hat....

When he announced his intention of coming to live in the flat she was literally paralyzed with
fright. Had it been any one else she would have fought, but in her uncle's drawing gradually
nearer and nearer to the centre of all their lives, coming as it seemed to her so silently
and mysteriously, without obvious motive, and yet with so stealthy a plan, against this man
she could do nothing....

Nevertheless she determined to fight for Nicholas to the last--to fight for Nicholas, to bring
back Nina, these were now the two great aims of her life; and whilst they were being realised
her love for Lawrence must be passive, passive as a deep passionate flame beats with unwavering
force in the heart of the lamp....

They had made me promise long before that I would spend Easter Eve with them and go with them
to our church on the Quay. I wondered now whether all the troubles of the last weeks would
not negative that invitation, and I had privately determined that if I did not hear from them
again I would slip off with Lawrence somewhere. But on Good Friday Markovitch, meeting me in
the Morskaia, reminded me that I was coming.

It is very difficult to give any clear picture of the atmosphere of the town between Revolution
week and this Easter Eve, and yet all the seeds of the later crop of horrors were sewn during
that period. Its spiritual mentality corresponded almost exactly with the physical thaw that
accompanied it--mist, then vapour dripping of rain, the fading away of one clear world into
another that was indistinct, ghostly, ominous. I find written in my Diary of Easter Day--exactly
five weeks after the outbreak of the Revolution--these words: "From long talks with K. and
others I see quite clearly that Russians have gone mad for the time being. It's heartbreaking
to see them holding meetings everywhere, arguing at every street corner as to how they intend
to arrange a democratic peace for Europe, when meanwhile the Germans are gathering every moment
force upon the frontiers."

Pretty quick, isn't it, to change from Utopia to threatenings of the worst sort of Communism?
But the great point for us in all this--the great point for our private personal histories
as well as the public one--was that it was during these weeks that the real gulf between Russia
and the Western world showed itself! Yes, for more than three years we had been pretending
that a week's sentiment and a hurriedly proclaimed Idealism could bridge a separation which
centuries of magic and blood and bones had gone to build. For three years we tricked ourselves
(I am not sure that the Russians were ever really deceived) ... but we liked the ballet, we
liked Tolstoi and Dostoieffsky (we translated their inborn mysticism into the weakest kind
of sentimentality), we liked the theory of inexhaustible numbers, we liked the picture of their
pounding, steam-roller like, to Berlin... we tricked ourselves, and in the space of a night
our trick was exposed.

Plain enough the reasons for these mistakes that we in England have made over that same Revolution,
mistakes made by none more emphatically than by our own Social Democrats. Those who hailed
the Revolution as the fulfilment of all their dearest hopes, those who cursed it as the beginning
of the damnation of the world--all equally in the wrong. The Revolution had no thought for
them. Russian extremists might shout as they pleased about their leading the fight for the
democracies of the world--they never even began to understand the other democracies. Whatever
Russia may do, through repercussion, for the rest of the world, she remains finally alone--isolated
in her Government, in her ideals, in her ambitions, in her abnegations. For a moment the world-politics
of her foreign rulers seemed to draw her into the Western whirlpool. For a moment only she
remained there. She has slipped back again behind her veil of mist and shadow. We may trade
with her, plunge into her politics, steal from her Art, emphasise her religion--she remains
alone, apart, mysterious....

I think it was with a kind of gulping surprise, as after a sudden plunge into icy cold water,
that we English became conscious of this. It came to us first in the form that to us the war
was everything--to the Russian, by the side of an idea the war was nothing at all. How was
I, for instance, to recognise the men who took a leading part in the events of this extraordinary
year as the same men who fought with bare hands, with fanatical bravery through all the Galician
campaign of two years before?

Had I not realised sufficiently at that time that Russia moves always according to the Idea
that governs her--and that when that Idea changes the world, his world changes with it....

Well, to return to Markovitch....

VII

I was on the point of setting out for the English Prospect on Saturday evening when there was
a knock on my door, and to my surprise Nicholas Markovitch came in. He was in evening dress--rather
quaint it seemed to me, with his pointed collar so high, his tail-coat so much too small, and
his large-brimmed bowler hat. He explained to me confusedly that he wished to walk with me
alone to the church... that he had things to tell me... that we should meet the others there.
I saw at once two things, that he was very miserable, that he was a little drunk. His misery
showed itself in his strange, pathetic, gleaming eyes, that looked so often as though they
held unshed tears (this gave him an unfortunate ridiculous aspect), in his hollow pale cheeks
and the droop of his mouth, not petulant nor peevish, simply unhappy in the way that animals
or very young children express unhappiness. His drunkenness showed itself in quite another
way. He was unsteady a little on his feet, and his hands trembled, his forehead was flushed,
and he spoke thickly, sometimes running his words together. At the same time he was not very
drunk, and was quite in control of his thoughts and intentions.

We went out together. It could not have been called a fine night--it was too cold, and there
was a hint of rain in the air--and yet there is beauty, I believe, in every Russian Easter
Eve. The day comes so wonderfully at the end of the long heavy winter. The white nights with
their incredible, almost terrifying beauty are at hand, the ice is broken, the new world of
sun and flowers is ready, at an instant's magic word, to be born. Nevertheless this year there
was an incredible pathos in the wind. The soul of Petrograd was indeed stirring, but mournfully,
ominously. There were not, for one thing, the rows of little fairy lamps that on this night
always make the streets so gay. They hang in chains and clusters of light from street to street,
blazing in the square, reflected star-like in the canals, misty and golden-veiled in distance.
To-night only the churches had their lights; for the rest, the streets were black chasms of
windy desolation, the canals burdened with the breaking ice which moved restlessly against
the dead barges. Very strong in the air was the smell of the sea; the heavy clouds that moved
in a strange kind of ordered procession overhead seemed to carry that scent with them, and
in the dim pale shadows of the evening glow one seemed to see at the end of every street mysterious
clusters of masts, and to hear the clank of chains and the creak of restless boards. There
were few people about and a great silence everywhere. The air was damp and thick, and smelt
of rotten soil, as though dank grass was everywhere pushing its way up through the cobbles
and paving-stones.

As we walked Markovitch talked incessantly. It was only a very little the talk of a drunken
man, scarcely disconnected at all, but every now and again running into sudden little wildnesses
and extravagances. I cannot remember nearly all that he said. He came suddenly, as I expected
him to do, to the subject of Semyonov.

"You know of course that Alexei Petrovitch is living with us now?"

"Yes. I know that."

"You can understand, Ivan Andreievitch, that when he came first and proposed it to me I was
startled. I had other things--very serious things to think of just then. We weren't--we aren't--very
happy at home just now... you know that... I didn't think he'd be very gay with us. I told
him that. He said he didn't expect to be gay anywhere at this time, but that he was lonely
in his flat all by himself, and he thought for a week or two he'd like company. He didn't expect
it would be for very long. No.... He said he was expecting 'something to happen.' Something
to himself, he said, that would alter his affairs. So, as it was only for a little time, well,
it didn't seem to matter. Besides, he's a powerful man. He's difficult to resist--very difficult
to resist...."

"Why have you given up your inventions, Nicolai Leontievitch?" I said to him, suddenly turning
round upon him.

"My inventions?" he repeated, seeming very startled at that.

"Yes, your inventions."

"No, no.... Understand, I have no more use for them. There are other things now to think about--more
important things."

"But you were getting on with them so well?"

"No--not really. I was deceiving myself as I have often deceived myself before. Alexei showed
me that. He told me that they were no good--"

"But I thought that he encouraged you?"

"Yes--at first--only at first. Afterwards he saw into them more clearly; he changed his mind.
I think he was only intending to be kind. A strange man... a strange man...."

"A very strange man. Don't you let him influence you, Nicholas Markovitch."

"Influence me? Do you think he does that?" He suddenly came close to me, catching my arm.

"I don't know. I haven't seen you often together."

"Perhaps he does... Mojet bweet... You may be right. I don't know--I don't know what I feel
about him at all. Sometimes he seems to me very kind; sometimes I'm frightened of him, sometimes"--here
he dropped his voice--"he makes me very angry, so angry that I lose control of myself--a despicable
thing... a despicable thing... just as I used to feel about the old man to whom I was secretary.
I nearly murdered him once. In the middle of the night I thought suddenly of his stomach, all
round and white and shining. It was an irresistible temptation to plunge a knife into it. I
was awake for hours thinking of it. Every man has such hours.... At the same time Alexei can
be very kind."

"How do you mean--kind?" I asked.

"For instance he has some very good wine--fifty bottles at least--he has given it all to us.
Then he insists on paying us for his food. He is a generous-spirited man. Money is nothing to us--"

"Don't you drink his wine," I said.

Nicholas was instantly offended.

"What do you mean, Ivan Andreievitch? Not drink his wine? Am I an infant? Can I not look after
myself?--Blagadaryoo Vas.... I am more than ten years old." He took his hand away from my arm.

"No, I didn't mean that at all," I assured him. "Of course not--only you told me not long ago
that you had given up wine altogether. That's why I said what I did."

"So I have! So I have!" he eagerly assured me. "But Easter's a time for rejoicing... Rejoicing!"--his
voice rose suddenly shrill and scornful--"rejoicing with the world in the state that it is.
Truly, Ivan Andreievitch, I don't wonder at Alexei's cynicism. I don't indeed. The world is
a sad spectacle for an observant man." He suddenly put his hand through my arm, so close to
me now that I could feel his beating heart. "But you believe, don't you, Ivan Andreievitch,
that Russia now has found herself?" His voice became desperately urgent and beseeching. "You
must believe that. You don't agree with those fools who don't believe that she will make the
best of all this? Fools? Scoundrels! Scoundrels! That's what they are. I must believe in Russia
now or I shall die. And so with all of us. If she does not rise now as one great country and
lead the world, she will never do so. Our hearts must break. But she will... she will! No one
who is watching events can doubt it. Only cynics like Alexei doubt--he doubts everything. And
he cannot leave anything alone. He must smear everything with his dirty finger. But he must
leave Russia alone... I tell him...."

He broke off. "If Russia fails now," he spoke very quietly, "my life is over. I have nothing
left. I will die."

"Come, Nicolai Leontievitch," I said, "you mustn't let yourself go like that. Life isn't over
because one is disappointed in one's country. And even though one is disappointed one does
not love the less. What's friendship worth if every disappointment chills one's affection?
One loves one's country because she is one's country, not because she's disappointing...."
And so I went on with a number of amiable platitudes, struggling to comfort him somewhere,
and knowing that I was not even beginning to touch the trouble of his soul.

He drew very close to me, his fingers gripping my sleeve--"I'll tell you, Ivan Andreievitch--but
you mustn't tell anybody else. I'm afraid. Yes, I am. Afraid of myself, afraid of this town,
afraid of Alexei, although that must seem strange to you. Things are very bad with me, Ivan
Andreievitch. Very bad, indeed. Oh! I have been disappointed! yes, I have. Not that I expected
anything else. But now it has come at last, the blow that I have always feared has fallen--a
very heavy blow. My own fault, perhaps, I don't know. But I'm afraid of myself. I don't know
what I may do. I have such strange dreams--Why has Alexei come to stay with us?"

"I don't know," I said.

Then, thank God, we reached the church. It was only as we went up the steps that I realised
that he had never once mentioned Vera.

VIII

And yet with all our worries thick upon us it was quite impossible to resist the sweetness
and charm and mystery of that service.

I think that perhaps it is true, as many have said, that people did not crowd to the churches
on that Easter as they had earlier ones, but our church was a small one, and it seemed to us
to be crammed. We stumbled up the dark steps, and found ourselves at the far end of the very
narrow nave. At the other end there was a pool of soft golden light in which dark figures were
bathed mysteriously. At the very moment of our entering, the procession was passing down the
nave on its way round the outside of the church to look for the Body of Our Lord. Down the
nave they came, the people standing on either side to let them pass, and then, many of them,
falling in behind. Every one carried a lighted candle. First there were the singers, then men
carrying the coloured banners, then the priest in stiff gorgeous raiment, then officials and
dignitaries, finally the crowd. The singing, the forest of lighted candles, the sudden opening
of the black door and the blowing in of the cold night wind, the passing of the voices out
into the air, the soft, dying away of the singing and then the hushed expectation of the waiting
for the return--all this had in it something so elemental, so simple, and so true to the very
heart of the mystery of life that all trouble and sorrow fell away and one was at peace.

How strange was that expectation! We knew so well what the word must be; we could tell exactly
the moment of the knock of the door, the deep sound of the priest's voice, the embracings and
dropping of wax over every one's clothes that would follow it--and yet every year it was the
same! There was truth in it, there was some deep response to the human dependence, some whispered
promise of a future good. We waited there, our hearts beating, crowded against the dark walls.
It was a very democratic assembly, bourgeoisie, workmen, soldiers, officers, women in evening
dress and peasant women with shawls over their heads. No one spoke or whispered.

Suddenly there was a knock. The door was opened. The priest stood there, in his crimson and
gold. "Christ is risen!" he cried, his voice vibrating as though he had indeed but just now,
out there in the dark and wind, made the great discovery.

"He is risen indeed!" came the reply from us all. Markovitch embraced me. "Let us go," he whispered,
"I can't bear it somehow to-night."

We went out. Everywhere the bells were ringing--the wonderful deep boom of St. Isaac's, and
then all the other bells, jangling, singing, crying, chattering, answering from all over Petrograd.
From the other side of the Neva came the report of the guns and the fainter, more distant echo
of the guns near the sea. I could hear behind it all the incessant "chuck-chuck, chuck-chuck,"
of the ice colliding on the river.

It was very cold, and we hurried back to Anglisky Prospect. Markovitch was quite silent all
the way.

When we arrived we found Vera and Uncle Ivan and Semyonov waiting for us (Bohun was with friends).
On the table was the paskha, a sweet paste made of eggs and cream, curds and sugar, a huge
ham, a large cake or rather, sweet bread called kulich, and a big bowl full of Easter eggs,
as many-coloured as the rainbow. This would be the fare during the whole week, as there was
to be no cooking until the following Saturday--and very tired of the ham and the eggs one became
before that day. There was also wine--some of Semyonov's gift, I supposed--and a tiny bottle
of vodka.

We were not a very cheerful company. Uncle Ivan, who was really distinguished by his complete
inability to perceive what was going on under his nose, was happy, and ate a great deal of
the ham and certainly more of the paskha than was good for him.

I do not know who was responsible for the final incident--Semyonov perhaps--but I have often
wondered whether some word or other of mine precipitated it. We had finished our meal and were
sitting quietly together, each occupied with his own thoughts. I had noticed that Markovitch
had been drinking a great deal.

I was just thinking it was time for me to go when I heard Semyonov say:

"Well, what do you think of your Revolution now, Nicholas?"

"What do you mean--my Revolution?" he asked.

(The strange thing on looking back is that the whole of this scene seems to me to have passed
in a whisper, as though we were all terrified of somebody.)

"Well--do you remember how you talked to me?... about the saving of the world and all the rest
of it that this was going to be? Doesn't seem to be quite turning out that way, does it, from
all one hears? A good deal of quarrelling, isn't there? And what about the army--breaking up
a bit, isn't it?"

"Don't, Uncle Alexei," I heard Vera whisper.

"What I said I still believe," Nicholas answered very quietly. "Leave Russia alone, Alexei--and
leave me alone, too."

"I'm not touching you, Nicholas," Semyonov answered, laughing softly.

"Yes you are--you know that you are. I'm not angry--not yet. But it's unwise of you--unwise...."

"Unwise--how?"

"Never mind. 'Below the silent pools there lie hidden many devils.' Leave me alone. You are
our guest."

"Indeed, Nicholas," said Semyonov, still laughing, "I mean you no harm. Ask our friend Durward
here whether I ever mean any one any harm. He will, I'm sure, give me the best of characters."

"No--no harm perhaps--but still you tease me.... I'm a fool to mind.... But then I am a fool--every
one knows it."

All the time he was looking with his pathetic eyes and his pale face at Vera.

Vera said again, very low, almost in a whisper: "Uncle Alexei... please."

"But really, Nicholas," Semyonov went on, "you under-rate yourself. You do indeed. Nobody thinks
you a fool. I think you a very lucky man. With your talents--"

"Talents!" said Nicholas softly, looking at Vera. "I have no talents."

"--And Vera's love for you," went on Semyonov--

"Ah! that is over!" Nicholas said, so low that I scarcely heard it. I do not know what then
exactly happened. I think that Vera put out her hand to cover Nicholas'. At any rate I saw
him draw his away, very gently. It lay on the table, and the only sound beside the voices was
the tiny rattle of his nails as his hand trembled against the woodwork.

Vera said something that I did not catch.

"No..." Nicholas said. "No... We must be true with one another, Vera. I have been drinking
too much wine. My head is aching, and perhaps my words are not very clear. But it gives me
courage to say what I have in my mind. I haven't thought out yet what we must do. Perhaps you
can help me. But I must tell you that I saw everything that happened here on that Thursday
afternoon in the week of the Revolution--"

Vera made a little movement of distress

"Yes, you didn't know--but I was in my room--where Alexei sleeps now, you know. I couldn't
help seeing. I'm very sorry."

"No, Nicholas, I'm very glad," Vera answered quietly.

"I would have told you in any case. I should have told you before. I love him and he loves
me, just as you saw. I would like Ivan Andreievitch and Uncle Ivan and every one to know. There
is nothing to conceal. I have never loved any one before, and I'm not ashamed of loving some
one now.... It doesn't alter our life, Nicholas. I care for you just as I did care, and I will
do just as you tell me. I will never see him again if that's what you wish, but I shall always
love him."

"Ah, Vera--you are cruel." Nicholas gave a little cry like a hurt animal, then he went away
from us, standing for a moment looking at us.

"We'll have to consider what we must do. I don't know. I can't think to-night.... And you,
Alexei, you leave me alone...."

He went stumbling away towards his bedroom.

Vera said nothing to any of us. She got up slowly, looked about her for a moment as though
she were bewildered by the light and then went after Nicholas. I turned to Semyonov.

"You'd better go back to your own place," I said.

"Not yet, thank you," he answered, smiling.

IX

On the afternoon of Easter Monday I was reminded by Bohun of an engagement that I had made
some weeks before to go that evening to a party at the house of a rich merchant, Rozanov by
name. I have, I think, mentioned him earlier in this book. I cannot conceive why I had ever
made the promise, and in the afternoon, meeting Bohun at Watkins' bookshop in the Morskaia,
I told him that I couldn't go.

"Oh, come along!" he said. "It's your duty."

"Why my duty?"

"They're all talking as hard as they can about saving the world by turning the other cheek,
and so on; and a few practical facts about Germany from you will do a world of good."

"Oh, your propaganda!" I said.

"No, it isn't my propaganda," he answered. "It's a matter of life and death to get these people
to go on with the war, and every little helps."

"Well, I'll come," I said, shaking my head at the book-seller, who was anxious that I should
buy the latest works of Mrs. Elinor Glyn and Miss Ethel Dell. I had in fact reflected that
a short excursion into other worlds would be good for me. During these weeks I had been living
in the very heart of the Markovitches, and it would be healthy to escape for a moment.

But I was not to escape.

I met Bohun at the top of the English Prospect, and we decided to walk. Rozanov lived in the
street behind the Kazan Cathedral. I did not know very much about him except that he was a
very wealthy merchant, who had made his money by selling cheap sweets to the peasant. He lived,
I knew, an immoral and self-indulgent life, and his hobby was the quite indiscriminate collection
of modern Russian paintings, his walls being plastered with innumerable works by Benois, Somoff,
Dobeijinsky, Yakofflyeff, and Lançeray. He had also two Serovs, a fine Vrubel, and several
Ryepins. He had also a fine private collection of indecent drawings.

"I really don't know what on earth we're going to this man for," I said discontentedly. "I
was weak this afternoon."

"No, you weren't," said Bohun. "And I'll tell you frankly that I'm jolly glad not to be having
a meal at home to-night. Do you know, I don't believe I can stick that flat much longer!"

"Why, are things worse?" I asked.

"It's getting so jolly creepy," Bohun said. "Everything goes on normally enough outwardly,
but I suppose there's been some tremendous row. Of course I don't knew any-thing about that.
After what you told me the other night though, I seem to see everything twice its natural size."

"What do you mean?" I asked him.

"You know when something queer's going on inside a house you seem to notice the furniture of
the rooms much more than you ordinarily do. I remember once a fellow's piano making me quite
sick whenever I looked at it. I didn't know why; I don't know why now, but the funny thing
is that another man who knew him once said exactly the same thing to me about it. He felt it
too. Of course we're none of us quite normal just now. The whole town seems to be turning upside
down. I'm always imagining there are animals in the canals; and don't you notice what lots
of queer fellows there are in the Nevski now, and Chinese and Japs--all sorts of wild men.
And last night I had a dream that all the lumps of ice in the Nevski turned into griffins and
went marching through the Red Square eating every one up on their way...." Bohun laughed. "That's
because I'd eaten something of course--too much paskha probably.

"But, seriously, I came in this evening at five o'clock, and the first thing I noticed was
that little red lacquer musical box of Semyonov's. You know it. The one with a sports-man in
a top hat and a horse and a dog on the lid. He brought it with some other little things when
he moved in. It's a jolly thing to look at, but it's got two most irritating tunes. One's like
'The Blue Bells of Scotland.' You said yourself the other day it would drive you mad if you
heard it often. Well, there it was, jangling away in its self-sufficient wheezy voice. Semyonov
was sitting in the armchair reading the newspaper, Markovitch was standing behind the chair
with the strangest look on his face. Suddenly, just as I came in he bent down and I heard him
say: 'Won't you stop the beastly thing?' 'Certainly,' said Semyonov, and he went across in
his heavy plodding kind of way and stopped it. I went off to my room and then, upon my word,
five minutes after I heard it begin again, thin and reedy through the walls. But when I came
back into the dining-room there was no one there. You can't think how that tune irritated me,
and I tried to stop it. I went up to it, but I couldn't find the hinge or the key. So on it
went, over and over again. Then there's another thing. Have you ever noticed how some chairs
will creak in a room, just as though some one were sitting down or getting up? It always, in
ordinary times, makes you jump, but when you're strung up about something--! There's a chair
in the Markovitches' dining-room just like that. It creaks more like a human being than anything
you ever heard, and to-night I could have sworn Semyonov got up out of it. It was just like
his heavy slow movement. However, there wasn't any one there. Do you think all this silly?"
he asked.

"No, indeed I don't," I answered.

"Then there's a picture. You know that awful painting of a mid-Victorian ancestor of Vera's--a
horrible old man with bushy eyebrows and a high, rather dirty-looking stock?"

"Yes, I know it," I said.

"It's one of those pictures with eyes that follow you all round the room. At least it has now.
I usen't to notice them. Now they stare at you as though they'd eat you, and I know that Markovitch
feels them because he keeps looking up at the beastly thing. Then there's--But no, I'm not
going to talk any more about it. It isn't any good. One gets thinking of anything these days.
One's nerves are all on edge. And that flat's too full of people any way."

"Yes, it is," I agreed.

We arrived at Rozanov's house, and went up in a very elegant heavily-gilt lift. Once in the
flat we were enveloped in a cloud of men and women, tobacco smoke, and so many pictures that
it was like tumbling into an art-dealer's. Where there weren't pictures there was gilt, and
where there wasn't gilt there was naked statuary, and where there wasn't naked statuary there
was Rozanov, very red and stout and smiling, gay in a tightly fitting black-tail coat, white
waistcoat and black trousers. Who all the people were I haven't the least idea. There was a
great many. A number of Jews and Jewesses, amiable, prosperous, and kindly, an artist or two,
a novelist, a lady pianist, two or three actors. I noticed these. Then there was an old maid,
a Mlle. Finisterre, famous in Petrograd society for her bitterness and acrimony, and in appearance
an exact copy of Balzac's Sophie Gamond.

I noticed several of those charming, quiet, wise women of whom Russia is so prodigal, a man
or two whom I had met at different times, especially one officer, one of the finest, bravest,
and truest men I have ever known; some of the inevitable giggling girls--and then suddenly,
standing quite alone, Nina!

Her loneliness was the first thing that struck me. She stood back against the wall underneath
the shining frames, looking about her with a nervous, timid smile. Her hair was piled up on
top of her head in the old way that she used to do when she was trying to imitate Vera, and
I don't know why but that seemed to me a good omen, as though she were already on her way back
to us. She was wearing a very simple white frock.

In spite of her smile she looked unhappy, and I could see that during this last week experience
had not been kind to her, because there was an air of shyness and uncertainty which had never
been there before. I was just going over to speak to her when two of the giggling girls surrounded
her and carried her off.

I carried the little picture of her in my mind all through the noisy, strident meal that followed.
I couldn't see her from where I sat, nor did I once catch the tones of her voice, although
I listened. Only a month ago there would have been no party at which Nina was present where
her voice would not have risen above all others.

No one watching us would have believed any stories about food shortage in Petrograd. I daresay
at this very moment in Berlin they are having just such meals. Until the last echo of the last
Trump has died away in the fastnesses of the advancing mountains the rich will be getting from
somewhere the things that they desire! I have no memory of what we had to eat that night, but
I know that it was all very magnificent and noisy, kind-hearted and generous and vulgar. A
great deal of wine was drunk, and by the end of the meal every one was talking as loudly as
possible. I had for companion the beautiful Mlle. Finisterre. She had lived all her life in
Petrograd, and she had a contempt for the citizens of that fine town worthy of Semyonov himself.
Opposite us sat a stout, good-natured Jewess, who was very happily enjoying her food. She was
certainly the most harmless being in creation, and was probably guilty of a thousand generosities
and kindnesses in her private life. Nevertheless, Mlle. Finisterre had for her a dark and sinister
hatred, and the remarks that she made about her, in her bitter and piercing voice, must have
reached their victim. She also abused her host very roundly, beginning to tell me in the fullest
detail the history of an especially unpleasant scandal in which he had notoriously figured.
I stopped her at last.

"It seems to me," I said, "that it would be better not to say these things about him while
you're eating his bread and salt."

She laughed shrilly, and tapped me on the arm with a bony finger.

"Oh, you English!... always so moral and strict about the proprieties... and always so hypercritical
too. Oh, you amuse me! I'm French, you see--not Russian at all; these poor people see through
nothing--but we French!"

After dinner there was a strange scene. We all moved into the long, over-decorated drawing-room.
We sat about, admired the pictures (a beautiful one by Somoff I especially remember--an autumn
scene with eighteenth-century figures and colours so soft and deep that the effect was inexpressibly
delicate and mysterious), talked and then fell into one of those Russian silences that haunt
every Russian party. I call those silences "Russian," because I know nothing like them in any
other part of the world. It is as though the souls of the whole company suddenly vanished through
the windows, leaving only the bodies and clothes. Every one sits, eyes half closed, mouths
shut, hands motionless, host and hostess, desperately abandoning every attempt at rescue, gaze
about them in despair.

The mood may easily last well into the morning, when the guests, still silent, will depart,
assuring everybody that they have enjoyed themselves immensely, and really believing that they
have; or it may happen that some remark will suddenly be made, and instantly back through the
windows the souls will come, eagerly catching up their bodies again, and a babel will arise,
deafening, baffling, stupefying. Or it may happen that a Russian will speak with sudden authority,
almost like a prophet, and will continue for half an hour and more, pouring out his soul, and
no one will dream of thinking it an improper exhibition.

In fine, anything can happen at a Russian party. What happened on this occasion was this. The
silence had lasted for some minutes, and I was wondering for how much longer I could endure
it (I had one eye on Nina somewhere in the background, and the other on Bohun restlessly kicking
his patent-leather shoes one against the other), when suddenly a quiet, ordinary little woman
seated near me said:

"The thing for Russia to do now is to abandon all resistance and so shame the world." She was
a mild, pleasant-looking woman, with the eyes of a very gentle cow, and spoke exactly as though
she were still pursuing her own private thoughts. It was enough; the windows flew open, the
souls came flooding in, and such a torrent of sound poured over the carpet that the naked statuary
itself seemed to shiver at the threatened deluge. Every one talked; every one, even, shouted.
Just as, during the last weeks, the streets had echoed to the words "Liberty," "Democracy,"
"Socialism," "Brotherhood," "Anti-annexation," "Peace of the world," so now the art gallery
echoed. The very pictures shook in their frames.

One old man in a white beard continued to cry, over and over again, "Firearms are not our weapons...
bullets are not our weapons. It's the Peace of God, the Peace of God that we need."

One lady (a handsome Jewess) jumped up from her chair, and standing before us all recited a
kind of chant, of which I only caught sentences once, and again:

"Russia must redeem the world from its sin... this slaughter must be slayed... Russia the Saviour
of the world... this slaughter must be slayed."

I had for some time been watching Bohun. He had travelled a long journey since that original
departure from England in December; but I was not sure whether he had travelled far enough
to forget his English terror of making a fool of himself. Apparently he had.... He said, his
voice shaking a little, blushing as he spoke:

"What about Germany?"

The lady in the middle of the floor turned upon him furiously:

"Germany! Germany will learn her lesson from us. When we lay down our arms her people, too,
will lay down theirs."

"Supposing she doesn't?"

The interest of the room was now centred on him, and every one else was silent.

"That is not our fault. We shall have made our example."

A little hum of applause followed this reply, and that irritated Bohun. He raised his voice:

"Yes, and what about your allies, England and France, are you going to betray them?"

Several voices took him up now. A man continued:

"It is not betrayal. We are not betraying the proletariat of England and France. They are our
friends. But the alliance with the French and English Capitalistic Governments was made not
by us but by our own Capitalistic Government, which is now destroyed."

"Very well, then," said Bohun. "But when the war began did you not--all of you, not only your
Government, but you people now sitting in this room--did you not all beg and pray England to
come in? During those days before England's intervention, did you not threaten to call us cowards
and traitors if we did not come in? Pomnite?"

There was a storm of answers to this. I could not distinguish much of what it was. I was fixed
by Mlle. Finisterre's eagle eye, gleaming at the thought of the storm that was rising.

"That's not our affair.... That's not our affair," I heard voices crying. "We did support you.
For years we supported you. We lost millions of men in your service.... Now this terrible slaughter
must cease, and Russia show the way to peace."

Bohun's moment then came upon him. He sprang to his feet, his face crimson, his body quivering;
so desperate was his voice, so urgent his distress that the whole room was held.

"What has happened to you all? Don't you see, don't you see what you are doing? What has come
to you, you who were the most modest people in Europe and are now suddenly the most conceited?
What do you hope to do by this surrender?

"Do you know, in the first place, what you will do? You will deliver the peoples of three-quarters
of the globe into hopeless slavery; you will lose, perhaps for ever, the opportunity of democracy;
you will establish the grossest kind of militarism for all time. Why do you think Germany is
going to listen to you? What sign has she ever shown that she would? When have her people ever
turned away or shown horror at any of the beastly things her rulers have been doing in this
war?... What about your own Revolution? Do you believe in it? Do you treasure it? Do you want
it to last? Do you suppose for a moment that, if you bow to Germany, she won't instantly trample
out your Revolution and give you hack your monarchy? How can she afford to have a revolutionary
republic close to her own gates? What is she doing at this moment? Piling up armies with which
to invade you, and conquer you, and lead you into slavery. What have you done so far by your
Revolutionary orders? What have you done by relaxing discipline in the army? What good have
you done to any one or anything? Is any one the happier? Isn't there disorder everywhere--aren't
all your works stopping and your industries failing? What about the eighty million peasants
who have been liberated in the course of a night? Who's going to lead them if you are not?
This thing has happened by its own force, and you are sitting down under it, doing nothing.
Why did it succeed? Simply because there was nothing to oppose it. Authority depended on the
army, not on the Czar, and the army was the people. So it is with the other armies of the world.
Do you think that the other armies couldn't do just as you did if they wished. They could,
in half an hour. They hate the war as much as you do, but they have also patriotism. They see
that their country must be made strong first before other countries will listen to its ideas.
But where is your patriotism? Has the word Russia been mentioned once by you since the Revolution?
Never once.... 'Democracy,' 'Brotherhood'--but how are Democracy and Brotherhood to be secured
unless other countries respect you.... Oh, I tell you it's absurd!... It's more than absurd,
it's wicked, it's rotten...."

Poor boy, he was very near tears. He sat down suddenly, staring blankly in front of him, his
hands clenched.

Rozanov answered him, Rozanov flushed, his fat body swollen with food and drink, a little unsteady
on his legs, and the light of the true mystic in his pig-like eyes. He came forward into the
middle of the circle.

"That's perhaps true what you say," he cried; "it's very English, very honest, and, if you
will forgive me, young man, very simple. You say that we Russians are conceited. No, we are
not conceited, but we see farther than the rest of the world. Is that our curse? Perhaps it
is, but equally, perhaps, we may save the world by it. Now look at me! Am I a fine man? No,
I am not. Every one knows I am not. No man could look at my face and say that I am a fine man.
I have done disgraceful things all my life. All present know some of the things I have done,
and there are some worse things which nobody knows save myself. Well, then.... Am I going to
stop doing such things? Am I now, at fifty-five, about to become instantly a saint? Indeed
not. I shall continue to do the things that I have already done, and I shall drop into a beastly
old age. I know it.

"So, young man, I am a fair witness. You may trust me to speak the truth as I see it. I believe
in Christ. I believe in the Christ-life, the Christ-soul. If I could, I would stop my beastliness
and become Christlike. I have tried on several occasions, and failed, because I have no character.
But does that mean that I do not believe in it when I see it? Not at all. I believe in it more
than ever. And so with Russia--you don't see far enough, young man, neither you nor any of
your countrymen. It is one of your greatest failings that you do not care for ideas. How is
this war going to end? By the victory of Germany? Perhaps.... Perhaps even it may be that Russia
by her weakness will help to that victory. But is that the end? No.... If Russia has an Idea
and because of her faith in that Idea, she will sacrifice everything, will be buffeted on both
cheeks, will be led into slavery, will deliver up her land and her people, will be mocked at
by all the world... perhaps that is her destiny.... She will endure all that in order that
her Idea may persist. And her Idea will persist. Are not the Germans and Austrians human like
ourselves? Slowly, perhaps very slowly, they will say to themselves: 'There is Russia who believes
in the peace of the world, in the brotherhood of man, and she will sacrifice everything for
it, she will go out, as Christ did, and be tortured and be crucified--and then on the third
day she will rise again.' Is not that the history of every triumphant Idea?... You say that
meanwhile Germany will triumph. Perhaps for a time she may, but our Idea will not die.

"The further Germany goes, the deeper will that Idea penetrate into her heart. At the end she
will die of it, and a new Germany will be born into a new world.... I tell you I am an evil
man, but I believe in God and in the righteousness of God."

What do I remember after those words of Rozanov? It was like a voice speaking to me across
a great gulf of waters--but that voice was honest. I do not know what happened after his speech.
I think there was a lot of talk. I cannot remember.

Only just before I was going I was near Nina for a moment.

She looked up at me just as she used to do.

"Durdles--is Vera all right?"

"She's miserable, Nina, because you're not there. Come back to us."

But she shook her head.

"No, no, I can't. Give her my--" Then she stopped. "No, tell her nothing."

"Can I tell her you're happy?" I asked.

"Oh, I'm all right," she answered roughly, turning away from me.

X

But the adventures of that Easter Monday night were not yet over. I had walked away with Bohun;
he was very silent, depressed, poor boy, and shy with the reaction of his outburst.

"I made the most awful fool of myself," he said.

"No, you didn't," I answered.

"The trouble of it is," he said slowly, "that neither you nor I see the humorous side of it
all strongly enough. We take it too seriously. It's got a funny side all right."

"Maybe you're right," I said. "But you must remember that the Markovitch situation isn't exactly
funny just now--and we're both in the middle of it. Oh! if only I could find Nina back home
and Semyonov away, I believe the strain would lift. But I'm frightened that something's going
to happen. I've grown very fond of these people, you know, Bohun--Vera and Nina and Nicholas.
Isn't it odd how one gets to love Russians--more than one's own people? The more stupid things
they do the more you love them--whereas with one's own people it's quite the other way. Oh,
I do want Vera and Nina and Nicholas to be happy!"

"Isn't the town queer to-night?" said Bohun, suddenly stopping. (We were just at the entrance
to the Mariensky Square.)

"Yes," I said. "I think these days between the thaw and the white nights are in some ways the
strangest of all. There seems to be so much going on that one can't quite see."

"Yes--over there--at the other end of the Square--there's a kind of mist--a sort of water-mist.
It comes from the Canal."

"And do you see a figure like an old bent man with a red lantern? Do you see what I mean--that
red light?"

"And those shadows on the further wall like riders passing with silver-tipped spears? Isn't
it...? There they go--ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen...."

"How still the Square is? Do you see those three windows all alight? Isn't there a dance going
on? Don't you hear the music?"

"No, it's the wind."

"No, surely.... That's a flute--and then violins. Listen! Those are fiddles for certain!"

"How still, how still it is!"

We stood and listened whilst the white mist gathered and grew over the cobbles. Certainly there
was a strain of music, very faint and dim, threading through the air.

"Well, I must go on," said Bohun. "You go up to the left, don't you? Good-night." I watched
Bohun's figure cross the Square. The light was wonderful, like fold on fold of gauze, but opaque,
so that buildings showed with sharp outline behind it. The moon was full and quite red. I turned
to go home and ran straight into Lawrence.

"Good heavens!" I cried. "Are you a ghost too?"

He didn't seem to feel any surprise at meeting me. He was plainly in a state of tremendous
excitement. He spoke breathlessly.

"You're exactly the man. You must come back with me. My diggings now are only a yard away from
here."

"It's very late," I began, "and--"

"Things are desperate," he said. "I don't know--" he broke off. "Oh! come and help me, Durward,
for God's sake!"

I went with him, and we did not exchange another word until we were in his rooms.

He began hurriedly taking off his clothes. "There! Sit on the bed. Different from Wilderling's,
isn't it? Poor devil.... I'm going to have a bath if you don't mind--I've got to clear my head."

He dragged out a tin bath from under his bed, then a big can of water from a corner. Stripped,
he looked so thick and so strong, with his short neck and his bull-dog build, that I couldn't
help saying,

"You don't look a day older than the last time you played Rugger for Cambridge."

"I am, though." He sluiced the cold water over his head, grunting. "Not near so fit--gettin'
fat too.... Rugger days are over. Wish all my other days were over too."

He got out of the bath, wiped himself, put on pyjamas, brushed his teeth, then his hair, took
out a pipe, and then sat beside me on the bed.

"Look here, Durward," he said. "I'm desperate, old man." (He said "desprite.") "We're all in
a hell of a mess."

"I know," I said.

He puffed furiously at his pipe.

"You know, if I'm not careful I shall go a bit queer in the head. Get so angry, you know,"
he added simply.

"Angry with whom?" I asked.

"With myself mostly for bein' such a bloody fool. But not only myself--with Civilisation, Durward,
old cock!--and also with that swine Semyonov."

"Ah, I thought you'd come to him," I said.

"Now the points are these," he went on, counting on his thick stubbly fingers. "First, I love
Vera--and when I say love I mean love. Never been in love before, you know--honest Injun, never....
Never had affairs with tobacconists' daughters at Cambridge--never had an affair with a woman
in my life--no, never. Used to wonder what was the matter with me, why I wasn't like other
chaps. Now I know. I was waitin' for Vera. Quite simple. I shall never love any one again--never.
I'm not a kid, you know, like young Bohun--I love Vera once and for all, and that's that..."

"Yes," I said. "And the next point?"

"The next point is that Vera loves me. No need to go into that--but she does."

"Yes, she does," I said.

"Third point, she's married, and although she don't love her man she's sorry for him. Fourth
point, he loves her. Fifth point, there's a damned swine hangin' round called Alexei Petrovitch
Semyonov.... Well, then, there you have it."

He considered, scratching his head. I waited. Then he went on:

"Now it would be simpler if she didn't want to be kind to Nicholas, if Nicholas didn't love
her, if--a thousand things were different. But they must be as they are, I suppose. I've just
been with her. She's nearly out of her mind with worry."

He paused, puffing furiously at his pipe. Then he went on:

"She's worrying about me, about Nina, and about Nicholas. And especially about Nicholas. There's
something wrong with him. He knows about my kissing her in the flat. Well, that's all right.
I meant him to know. Everything's just got to be above-board. But Semyonov knows too, and that
devil's been raggin' him about it, and Nicholas is just like a bloomin' kid. That's got to
stop. I'll wring that feller's neck. But even that wouldn't help matters much. Vera says Nicholas
is not to be hurt whatever happens. 'Never mind us,' she says, 'we're strong and can stand
it.' But he can't. He's weak. And she says he's just goin' off his dot. And it's got to be
stopped--it's just got to be stopped. There's only one way to stop it."

He stayed: suddenly he put his heavy hand on my knee.

"What do you mean?" I asked.

"I've got to clear out. That's what I mean. Right away out. Back to England."

I didn't speak.

"That's it," he went on, but now as though he were talking to himself. "That's what you've
got to do, old son.... She says so, and she's right. Can't alter our love, you know. Nothing
changes that. We've got to hold on... Ought to have cleared out before...."

Suddenly he turned. He almost flung himself upon me. He gripped my arms so that I would have
cried out if the agony in his eyes hadn't held me.

"Here," he muttered, "let me alone for a moment. I must hold on. I'm pretty well beat. I'm
just about done."

For what seemed hours we sat there. I believe it was, in reality, only a few minutes. He sat
facing me, his eyes staring at me but not seeing me, his body close against me, and I could
see the sweat glistening on his chest through the open pyjamas. He was rigid as though he had
been struck into stone.

He suddenly relaxed.

"That's right," he said; "thanks, old man. I'm better now. It's a bit late, I expect, but stay
on a while."

He got into bed. I sat beside him, gripped his hand, and ten minutes later he was asleep.

XI

The next day, Tuesday, was stormy with wind and rain. It was strange to see from my window
the whirlpool of ice-encumbered waters. The rain fell in slanting, hissing sheets upon the
ice, and the ice, in lumps and sheets and blocks, tossed and heaved and spun. At times it was
as though all the ice was driven by some strong movement in one direction, then it was like
the whole pavement of the world slipping down the side of the firmament into space. Suddenly
it would be checked and, with a kind of quiver, station itself and hang chattering and clutching
until the sweep would begin in the opposite direction!

I could see only dimly through the mist, but it was not difficult to imagine that, in very
truth, the days of the flood had returned. Nothing could be seen but the tossing, heaving welter
of waters with the ice, grim and grey through the shadows, like "ships and monsters, sea-serpents
and mermaids," to quote Galleon's Spanish Nights.

Of course the water came in through my own roof, and it was on that very afternoon that I decided,
once and for all, to leave this abode of mine. Romantic it might be; I felt it was time for
a little comfortable realism. My old woman brought me the usual cutlets, macaroni, and tea
for lunch; then I wrote to a friend in England; and finally, about four o'clock, after one
more look at the hissing waters, drew my curtains, lit my candles, and sat down near my stove
to finish that favourite of mine, already mentioned in these pages, De la Mare's The Return.

I read on with absorbed attention. I did not hear the dripping on the roof, nor the patter-patter
of the drops from the ceiling, nor the beating of the storm against the glass. My candles blew
in the draught, and shadows crossed and recrossed the page. Do you remember the book's closing
words?--

"Once, like Lawford in the darkness at Widderstone, he glanced up sharply across the lamplight
at his phantasmagorical shadowy companion, heard the steady surge of multitudinous rain-drops,
like the roar of Time's winged chariot hurrying near, then he too, with spectacles awry, bobbed
on in his chair, a weary old sentinel on the outskirts of his friend's denuded battlefield."

"Shadowy companion," "multitudinous rain-drops," "a weary old sentinel," "his friend's denuded
battlefield"... the words echoed like little muffled bells in my brain, and it was, I suppose,
to their chiming that I fell into dreamless sleep.

From this I was suddenly roused by the sharp noise of knocking, and starting up, my book clattering
to the floor, I saw facing me, in the doorway, Semyonov. Twice before he had come to me just
like this--out of the heart of a dreamless sleep. Once in the orchard near Buchatch, on a hot
summer afternoon; once in this same room on a moonlit night. Some strange consciousness, rising,
it seemed, deep out of my sleep, told me that this would be the last time that I would so receive
him.

"May I come in?" he said.

"If you must, you must," I answered. "I am not physically strong enough to prevent you."

He laughed. He was dripping wet. He took off his hat and overcoat, sat down near the stove,
bending forward, holding his cloak in his hands and watching the steam rise from it.

I moved away and stood watching. I was not going to give him any possible illusion as to my
welcoming him. He turned round and looked at me.

"Truly, Ivan Andreievitch," he said, "you are a fine host. This is a miserable greeting."

"There can be no greetings between us ever again," I answered him. "You are a blackguard. I
hope that this is our last meeting."

"But it is," he answered, looking at me with friendliness; "that is precisely why I've come.
I've come to say good-bye."

"Good-bye?" I repeated with astonishment. This chimed in so strangely with my premonition.
"I never was more delighted to hear it. I hope you're going a long distance from us all."

"That's as may be," he answered. "I can't tell you definitely."

"When are you going?" I asked.

"That I can't tell you either. But I have a premonition that it will be soon."

"Oh, a premonition," I said, disappointed. "Is nothing settled?"

"No, not definitely. It depends on others."

"Have you told Vera and Nicholas?"

"No--in fact, only last night Vera begged me to go away, and I told her that I would love to
do anything to oblige her, but this time I was afraid that I couldn't help her. I would be
compelled, alas, to stay on indefinitely."

"Look here, Semyonov," I said, "stop that eternal fooling. Tell me honestly--are you going or not?"

"Going away from where?" he asked, laughing.

"From the Markovitches, from all of us, from Petrograd?"

"Yes--I've told you already," he answered. "I've come to say good-bye."

"Then what did you mean by telling Vera--"

"Never you mind, Ivan Andreievitch. Don't worry your poor old head with things that are too
complicated for you--a habit of yours, I'm afraid. Just believe me when I say that I've come
to say good-bye. I have an intuition that we shall never talk together again. I may be wrong.
But my intuitions are generally correct."

I noticed then that his face was haggard, his eyes dark, the light in them exhausted as though
he had not slept.... I had never before seen him show positive physical distress. Let his soul
be what it might, his body seemed always triumphant.

"Whether your intuition is right or no," I said, "this is the last time. I never intend to
speak to you again if I can help it. The day that I hear that you have really left us, never
to return, will be one of the happiest days of my life."

Semyonov gave me a strange look, humorous, ironical, and, upon my word, almost affectionate:
"That's very sad what you say, Ivan Andreievitch--if you mean it. And I suppose you mean it,
because you English always do mean what you say.... But it's sad because, truly, I have friendly
feelings towards you, and you're almost the only man in the world of whom I could say that."

"You speak as though your friendship were an honour," I said hotly. "It's a degradation."

He smiled. "Now that's melodrama, straight out of your worst English plays. And how bad they
can be!... But you hadn't always this vehement hatred. What's changed your mind?"

"I don't know that I have changed my mind," I answered. "I think I've always disliked you.
But there at the Front and in the Forest you were brave and extraordinarily competent. You
treated Trenchard abominably, of course--but he rather asked for it in some ways. Here you've
been nothing but the meanest skunk and sneak. You've set out deliberately to poison the lives
of some of the best-hearted and most helpless people on this earth.... You deserve hanging,
if any murderer ever did!"

He looked at me so mildly and with such genuine interest that I was compelled to feel my indignation
a whit melodramatic.

"If you are going," I said more calmly, "for Heaven's sake go! It can't be any pleasure to
you, clever and talented as you are, to bait such harmless people as Vera and Nicholas. You've
done harm enough. Leave them, and I forgive you everything."

"Ah, of course your forgiveness is of the first importance to me," he said, with ironic gravity.
"But it's true enough. You're going to be bothered with me--I do seem a worry to you, don't
I?--for only a few days more. And how's it going to end, do you think? Who's going to finish
me off? Nicholas or Vera? Or perhaps our English Byron, Lawrence? Or even yourself? Have you
your revolver with you? I shall offer no resistance, I promise you."

Suddenly he changed. He came closer to me. His weary, exhausted eyes gazed straight into mine:
"Ivan Andreievitch, never mind about the rest--never mind whether you do or don't hate me,
that matters to nobody. What I tell you is the truth. I have come to you, as I have always
come to you, like the moth to the flame. Why am I always pursuing you? Is it for the charm
and fascination of your society? Your wit? Your beauty? I won't flatter you--no, no, it's because
you alone, of all these fools here, knew her. You knew her as no one else alive knew her. She
liked you--God knows why! At least I do know why--it was because of her youth and innocence
and simplicity, because she didn't know a wise man from a fool, and trusted all alike.... But
you knew her, you knew her. You remember her and can talk of her. Ah, how I've hungered, hungered,
to talk to you about her! Sometimes I've come all this way and then turned back at the door.
How I've prayed that it might have been some other who knew her, some real man, not a sentimental,
gloomy old woman like yourself, Ivan Andreievitch. And yet you have your points. You have in
you the things that she saw--you are honest, you are brave.... You are like a good English
clergyman. But she!... I should have had some one with wit, with humour, with a sense of life
about her. All the things, all the little things--the way she walked, her clothes, her smile--when
she was cross! Ah, she was divine when she was cross!... Ivan Andreievitch, be kind to me!
Think for a moment less of your morals, less of your principles--and talk to me of her! Talk
to me of her!"

He had drawn quite close to me; he looked like a madman--I have no doubt that, at that moment,
he was one.

"I can't!... I won't!" I answered, drawing away. "She is the most sacred memory I have in my
life. I hate to think of her with you. And that because you smirch everything you touch. I
have no feeling of jealousy...."

"You? Jealousy!" he said, looking at me scornfully. "Why should you be jealous?"

"I loved her too," I said.

He looked at me. In spite of myself the colour flooded my face. He looked at me from head to
foot--my plainness, my miserable physique, my lameness, my feeble frame--everything was comprehended
in the scorn of that glance.

"No," I said, "you need not suppose that she ever realised. She did not. I would have died
rather than have spoken of it. But I will not talk about her. I will not."

He drew away from me. His face was grave; the mockery had left it.

"Oh, you English, how strange you are!... In trusting, yes.... But the things you miss! I understand
now many things. I give up my desire. You shan't smirch your precious memories.... And you,
too, must understand that there has been all this time a link that has bound us.... Well, that
link has snapped. I must go. Meanwhile, after I am gone, remember that there is more in life,
Ivan Andreievitch, than you will ever understand. Who am I?... Rather ask, what am I? I am
a Desire, a Purpose, a Pursuit--what you like. If another suffer for that I cannot help it,
and if human nature is so weak, so stupid, it is right that it should suffer. But perhaps I
am not myself at all, Ivan Andreievitch. Perhaps this is a ghost that you see.... What if the
town has changed in the night and strange souls have slipped into our old bodies?

"Isn't there a stir about the town? Is it I that pursue Nicholas, or is it my ghost that pursues
myself? Is it Nicholas that I pursue? Is not Nicholas dead, and is it not my hope of release
that I follow?... Don't be so sure of your ground, Ivan Andreievitch. You know the proverb:
'There's a secret city in every man's heart. It is at that city's altars that the true prayers
are offered.' There has been more than one Revolution in the last two months."

He came up to me:

"Do not think too badly of me, Ivan Andreievitch, afterwards. I'm a haunted man, you know."

He bent forward and kissed me on the lips. A moment later he was gone.

XII

That Tuesday night poor young Bohun will remember to his grave--and beyond it, I expect.

He came in from his work about six in the evening and found Markovitch and Semyonov sitting
in the dining-room. Everything was ordinary enough. Semyonov was in the armchair reading a
newspaper; Markovitch was walking very quietly up and down the farther end of the room. He
wore faded blue carpet slippers; he had taken to them lately. Everything was the same as it
had always been. The storm that had raged all day had now died down, and a very pale evening
sun struck little patches of colour on the big table with the fading table-cloth, on the old
brown carpet, on the picture of the old gentleman with bushy eyebrows, on Semyonov's musical-box,
on the old knick-knacks and the untidy shelf of books. (Bohun looked especially to see whether
the musical-box were still there. It was there on a little side-table.) Bohun, tired with his
long day's efforts to shove the glories of the British Empire down the reluctant throats of
the indifferent Russians, dropped into the other armchair with a tattered copy of Turgenieff's
House of Gentle-folks, and soon sank into a state of half-slumber.

He roused himself from this to hear Semyonov reading extracts from the newspaper. He caught,
at first, only portions of sentences. I am writing this, of course, from Bohun's account of
it, and I cannot therefore quote the actual words, but they were incidents of disorder at the
Front.

"There!" Semyonov would say, pausing. "Now, Nicholas... What do you say to that? A nice state
of things. The Colonel was murdered, of course, although our friend the Retch doesn't put it
quite so bluntly. The Novaya Jezn of course highly approves. Here's another...." This went
on for some ten minutes, and the only sound beside Semyonov's voice was Markovitch's padding
steps. "Ah! here's another bit!... Now what about that, my fine upholder of the Russian Revolution?
See what they've been doing near Riga! It says...."

"Can't you leave it alone, Alexei? Keep your paper to yourself!"

These words came in so strange a note, a tone so different from Markovitch's ordinary voice,
that they were, to Bohun, like a warning blow on the shoulder.

"There's gratitude--when I'm trying to interest you! How childish, too, not to face the real
situation! Do you think you're going to improve things by pretending that anarchy doesn't exist?
So soon, too, after your beautiful Revolution! How long is it? Let me see... March, April...
yes, just about six weeks.... Well, well!"

"Leave me alone, Alexei!... Leave me alone!"

Bohun had with that such a sense of a superhuman effort at control behind the words that the
pain of it was almost intolerable. He wanted, there and then, to have left the room. It would
have been better for him had he done so. But some force held him in his chair, and, as the
scene developed, be felt as though his sudden departure would have laid too emphatic a stress
on the discomfort of it.

He hoped that in a moment Vera or Uncle Ivan would come and the scene would end.

Semyonov, meanwhile, continued: "What were those words you used to me not so long ago? Something
about free Russia, I think--Russia moving like one man to save the world--Russia with an unbroken
front.... Too optimistic, weren't you?"

The padding feet stopped. In a whisper that seemed to Bohun to fill the room with echoing sound
Markovitch said:

"You have tempted me for weeks now, Alexei.... I don't know why you hate me so, nor why you
pursue me. Go back to your own place. If I am an unfortunate man, and by my own fault, that
should be nothing to you who are more fortunate."

"Torment you! I?... My dear Nicholas, never! But you are so childish in your ideas--and are
you unfortunate? I didn't know it. Is it about your inventions that you are speaking? Well,
they were never very happy, were they?"

"You praised them to me!"

"Did I?... My foolish kindness of heart, I'm afraid. To tell the truth, I was thankful when
you saw things as they were..."

"You took them away from me."

"I took them away? What nonsense! It was your own wish--Vera's wish too."

"Yes, you persuaded both Vera and Nina that they were no good. They believed in them before
you came."

"You flatter me, Nicholas. I haven't such power over Vera's opinions, I'm afraid. If I tell
her anything she believes at once the opposite. You must have seen that yourself."

"You took her belief away from me. You took her love away from me."

Semyonov laughed. That laugh seemed to rouse Markovitch to frenzy. He screamed out. "You have
taken everything from me!... You will not leave me alone! You must be careful. You are in danger,
I tell you."

Semyonov sprang up from his chair, and the two men, advancing towards one another, came into
Bohun's vision.

Markovitch was like a madman, his hands raised, his eyes staring from his head, his body trembling.
Semyonov was quiet, motionless, smiling, standing very close to the other.

"Well, what are you going to do?" he asked.

Markovitch stood for a moment, his hands raised, then his whole body seemed to collapse. He
moved away, muttering something which Bohun could not hear. With shuffling feet, his head lowered,
he went out of the room. Semyonov returned to his seat.

To Bohun, an innocent youth with very simple and amiable ideas about life, the whole thing
seemed "beastly beyond words."

"I saw a man torture a dog once," he told me. "He didn't do much to it really. Tied it up to
a tree and dug into it with a pen-knife. I went home and was sick.... Well, I felt sick this
time, too."

Nevertheless his own "sickness" was not the principal affair. The point was the sense of danger
that seemed now to tinge with its own faint stain every article in the room. Bohun's hatred
of Semyonov was so strong that he felt as though he would never be able to speak to him again;
but it was not really of Semyonov that he was thinking. His thoughts were all centred round
Markovitch. You must remember that for a long time now he had considered himself Markovitch's
protector. This sense of his protection had developed in him an affection for the man that
he would not otherwise have felt. He did not, of course, know of any of Markovitch's deepest
troubles. He could only guess at his relations with Vera, and he did not understand the passionate
importance that he attached to his Russian idea. But he knew enough to be aware of his childishness,
his simplicity, his naïveté, and his essential goodness. "He's an awfully decent sort, really,"
he used to say in a kind of apologetic defence. The very fact of Semyonov's strength made his
brutality seem now the more revolting. "Like hitting a fellow half your size"....

He saw that things in that flat were approaching a climax, and he knew enough now of Russian
impetuosity to realise that climaxes in that country are, very often, no ordinary affairs.
It was just as though there were an evil smell in the flat, he explained to me. "It seemed
to hang over everything. Things looked the same and yet they weren't the same at all."

His main impression that "something would very soon happen if he didn't look out," drove everything
else from his mind--but he didn't quite see what to do. Speak to Vera? To Nicholas? To Semyonov?...
He didn't feel qualified to do any of these things.

He went to bed that night early, about ten o'clock. He couldn't sleep. His door was not quite
closed and he could hear first Vera, then Uncle Ivan, lastly Markovitch go to bed. He lay awake
then, with that exaggerated sense of hearing that one has in the middle of the night, when
one is compelled, as it were, against one's will, to listen for sounds. He heard the dripping
of the tap in the bathroom, the creaking of some door in the wind (the storm had risen again)
and all the thousand and one little uncertainties, like the agitated beating of innumerable
hearts that penetrate the folds and curtains of the night. As he lay there he thought of what
he would do did Markovitch really go off his head. He had a revolver, he knew. He had seen
it in his hand. And then what was Semyonov after? My explanation had seemed, at first, so fantastic
and impossible that Bohun had dismissed it, but now, after the conversation that he had just
overheard, it did not seem impossible at all--especially in the middle of the night. His mind
travelled back to his own first arrival in Petrograd, that first sleep at the "France" with
the dripping water and the crawling rats, the plunge into the Kazan Cathedral, and everything
that followed.

He did not see, of course, his own progress since that day, or the many things that Russia
had already done for him, but he did feel that such situations as the one he was now sharing
were, to-day, much more in the natural order of things than they would have been four months
before....

He dozed off and then was awakened, sharply, abruptly, by the sound of Markovitch's padded
feet. There could be no mistaking them; very softly they went past Bohun's door, down the passage
towards the dining-room. He sat up in bed, and all the other sounds of the night seemed suddenly
to be accentuated--the dripping of the tap, the blowing of the wind, and even the heavy breathing
of old Sacha, who always slept in a sort of cupboard near the kitchen, with her legs hanging
out into the passage. Suddenly no sound! The house was still, and, with that, the sense of
danger and peril was redoubled, as though the house were holding its breath as it watched....

Bohun could endure it no longer; he got up, put on his dressing-gown and bedroom slippers,
and went out. When he got as far as the dining-room door he saw that Markovitch was standing
in the middle of the room with a lighted candle in his hand. The glimmer of the candle flung
a circle, outside which all was dusk. Within the glimmer there was Markovitch, his hair rough
and strangely like a wig, his face pale yellow, and wearing an old quilted bed-jacket of a
purple green colour. He was in a night-dress, and his naked legs were like sticks of tallow.

He stood there, the candle shaking in his hand, as though he were uncertain as to what he would
do next. He was saying something to himself, Bohun thought.

At any rate his lips were moving. Then he put his hand into the pocket of his bed-coat and
took out a revolver. Bohun saw it gleam in the candle-light. He held it up close to his eyes
as though he were short-sighted and seemed to sniff at it. Then, clumsily, Bohun said, he opened
it, to see whether it were loaded, I suppose, and closed it again. After that, very softly
indeed, he shuffled off towards the door of Semyonov's room, the room that had once been the
sanctuary of his inventions.

All this time young Bohun was paralysed. He said that all his life now, in spite of his having
done quite decently in France, he would doubt his capacity in a crisis because, during the
whole of this affair, he never stirred. But that was because it was all exactly like a dream.
"I was in the dream, you know, as well as the other fellows. You know those dreams when you're
doing your very damnedest to wake up--when you struggle and sweat and know you'll die if something
doesn't happen--well, it was like that, except that I didn't struggle and swear, but just stood
there, like a painted picture, watching...."

Markovitch had nearly reached Semyonov's door (you remember that there was a little square
window of glass in the upper part of it) when he did a funny thing. He stopped dead as though
some one had rapped him on the shoulder. He stopped and looked round, then, very slowly, as
though he were compelled, gazed with his nervous blinking eyes up at the portrait of the old
gentleman with the bushy eyebrows. Bohun looked up too and saw (it was probably a trick of
the faltering candle-light) that the old man was not looking at him at all, but steadfastly,
and, of course, ironically at Markovitch. The two regarded one another for a while, then Markovitch,
still moving with the greatest caution, slipped the revolver back into his pocket, got a chair,
climbed on to it and lifted the picture down from its nail. He looked at it for a moment, staring
into the cracked and roughened paint, then hung it deliberately back on its nail again, but
with its face to the wall. As he did this his bare, skinny legs were trembling so on the chair
that, at every moment, he threatened to topple over. He climbed down at last, put the chair
back in its place, and then once more turned towards Semyonov's door.

When he reached it he stopped and again took out the revolver, opened it, looked into it, and
closed it. Then he put his hand on the door-knob.

It was then that Bohun had, as one has in dreams, a sudden impulse to scream: "Look out! Look
out! Look out!" although, Heaven knows, he had no desire to protect Semyonov from anything.
But it was just then that the oddest conviction came over him, namely, an assurance that Semyonov
was standing on the other side of the door, looking through the little window and waiting.
He could not have told, any more than one can ever tell in dreams, how he was so certain of
this. He could only see the little window as the dimmest and darkest square of shadow behind
Markovitch's candle, but he was sure that this was so. He could even see Semyonov standing
there, in his shirt, with his thick legs, his head a little raised, listening...

For what seemed an endless time Markovitch did not move. He also seemed to be listening. Was
it possible that he heard Semyonov's breathing?... But, of course, I have never had any actual
knowledge that Semyonov was there. That was simply Bohun's idea....

Then Markovitch began very slowly, bending a little, as though it were stiff and difficult,
to turn the handle. I don't know what then Bohun would have done. He must, I think, have moved,
shouted, screamed, done something or other. There was another interruption. He heard a quick,
soft step behind him. He moved into the shadow.

It was Vera, in her night-dress, her hair down her back.

She came forward into the room and whispered very quietly: "Nicholas!"

He turned at once. He did not seem to be startled or surprised; he had dropped the revolver
at once back into his pocket. He came up to her, she bent down and kissed him, then put her
arm round him and led him away.

When they had gone Bohun also went back to bed. The house was very still and peaceful. Suddenly
he remembered the picture. It would never do, he thought, if in the morning it were found by
Sacha or Uncle Ivan with its face to the wall. After hesitating he lit his own candle, got
out of bed again, and went down the passage.

"The funny thing was," he said, "that I really expected to find it just as it always was, face
outwards.... as though the whole thing really had been a dream. But it wasn't. It had its face
to the wall all right. I got a chair, turned it round, and went back to bed again."

XIII

That night, whether as a result of my interview with Semyonov I do not know, my old enemy leapt
upon me once again. I had, during the next three days, one of the worst bouts of pain that
it has ever been my fortune to experience. For twenty-four hours I thought it more than any
man could bear, and I hid my head and prayed for death; during the next twenty-four I slowly
rose, with a dim far-away sense of deliverance; on the third day I could hear, in the veiled
distance, the growls of my defeated foe....

Through it all, behind the wall of pain, my thoughts knocked and thudded, urging me to do something.
It was not until the Friday or the Saturday that I could think consecutively. My first thought
was driven in on me by the old curmudgeon of a doctor, as his deliberate opinion that it was
simply insanity to stay on in those damp rooms when I suffered from my complaint, that I was
only asking for what I got, and that he, on his part, had no sympathy for me. I told him that
I entirely agreed with him, that I had determined several weeks ago to leave these rooms, and
that I thought that I had found some others in a different, more populated part of the town.
He grunted his approval, and, forbidding me to go out for at least a week, left me. At least
a week!... No, I must be out long before that. Now that the pain had left me, weak though I
was, I was wildly impatient to return to the Markovitches. Through all these last days' torments
I had been conscious of Semyonov, seen his hair and his mouth and his beard and his square
solidity and his tired, exhausted eyes, and strangely, at the end of it all, felt the touch
of his lips on mine. Oddly, I did not hate Semyonov; I saw quite clearly that I had never hated
him--something too impersonal about him, some sense, too, of an outside power driving him.
No, I did not hate him, but God! how I feared him--feared him not for my own sake, but for
the sake of those who had--was this too arrogant?--been given as it seemed to me,--into my charge.

I remembered that Monday was the 30th of April, and that, on that evening, there was to be
a big Allied meeting at the Bourse, at which our Ambassador, Sir George Buchanan, the Belgian
Consul, and others, were to speak. I had promised to take Vera to this. Tuesday the 1st of
May was to see a great demonstration by all the workmen's and soldiers' committees. It was
to correspond with the Labour demonstrations arranged to take place on that day all over Europe,
and the Russian date had been altered to the new style in order to provide for this. Many people
considered that the day would be the cause of much rioting, of definite hostility to the Provisional
Government, of anti-foreign demonstrations, and so on; others, idealistic Russians, believed
that all the soldiers, the world over, would on that day throw down their arms and proclaim
a universal peace....

I for my part believed that it would mark the ending of the first phase of the Revolution and
the beginning of the second, and that for Russia at any rate it would mean the changing from
a war of nations into a war of class--in other words, that it would mean the rising up of the
Russian peasant as a definite positive factor in the world's affairs.

But all that political business was only remotely, at that moment, my concern. What I wanted
to know was what was happening to Nicholas, to Vera, to Lawrence, and the others. Even whilst
I was restlessly wondering what I could do to put myself into touch with them, my old woman
entered with a letter which she said had been brought by hand.

The letter was from Markovitch.

I give this odd document here exactly as I received it. I do not attempt to emphasise or explain
or comment in any way. I would only add that no Russian is so mad as he seems to any Englishman,
and no Englishman so foolish as he seems to any Russian.

I must have received this letter, I think, late on Sunday afternoon, because I was, I remember,
up and dressed, and walking about my room. It was written on flimsy grey paper in pencil, which
made it difficult to read. There were sentences unfinished, words misspelt, and the whole of
it in the worst of Russian handwritings. Certain passages, I am, even now, quite unable to
interpret:

It ran as follows:

Dear Ivan Andreievitch--Vera tells me that you are ill again. She has been round to enquire,
I think. I did not come because I knew that if I did I should only talk about my own troubles,
the same as you've always listened to, and what kind of food is that for a sick man? All the
same, that is just what I am doing now, but reading a letter is not like talking to a man;
you can always stop and tear the paper when perhaps it would not be polite to ask a man to
go. But I hope, nevertheless, that you won't do that with this--not because of any desire I
may have to interest you in myself, but because of something of much more importance than either
of us, something I want you to believe--something you must believe.... Don't think me mad.
I am quite sane sitting here in my room writing.... Every one is asleep. Every one but not
everything. I've been queer, now and again, lately... off and on. Do you know how it comes?
When the inside of the world goes further and further within dragging you after it, until at
last you are in the bowels of darkness choking. I've known such moods all my life. Haven't
you known them? Lately, of course, I've been drinking again. I tell you, but I wouldn't own
it to most people. But they all know, I suppose.... Alexei made me start again, but it's foolish
to put everything on to him. If I weren't a weak man he wouldn't be able to do anything with
me, would he? Do you believe in God, and don't you think that He intended the weak to have
some compensation somewhere, because it isn't their fault that they're weak, is it! They can
struggle and struggle, but it's like being in a net. Well, one must just make a hole in the
net large enough to get out of, that's all. And now, ever since two days ago, when I resolved
to make that hole, I've been quite calm. I'm as calm as anything now writing to you. Two days
ago Vera told me that he was going back to England.... Oh, she was so good to me that day,
Ivan Andreievitch. We sat together all alone in the flat, and she had her hand in mine, just
as we used to do in the old days when I pretended to myself that she loved me. Now I know that
she did not, but the warmer and more marvellous was her kindness to me, her goodness, and nobility.
Do you not think, Ivan Andreievitch, that if you go deep enough in every human heart, there
is this kernel of goodness, this fidelity to some ideal. Do you know we have a proverb: "In
each man's heart there is a secret town at whose altars the true prayers are offered!" Even
perhaps with Alexei it is so, only there you must go very deep, and there is no time.

But I must tell you about Vera. She told me so kindly that he was going to England, and that
now her whole life would be led in Nina and myself. I held her hand very close in mine and
asked her, Was it really true that she loved him. And she said, yes she did, but that that
she could not help. She said that she had spoken with him, and that they had decided that it
would be best for him to go away. Then she begged my forgiveness for many things, because she
had been harsh or cross,--I don't know what things.... Oh, Ivan Andreievitch, she to beg forgiveness
of me!

But I held her hand closer and closer, because I knew that it was the last time that I would
be able so truly to hold it. How could she not see that now everything was over--everything--quite
everything! Am I one to hold her, to chain her down, to keep her when she has already escaped?
Is that the way to prove my fidelity to her?

Of course I did not speak to her of this, but for the first time in all our years together,
I felt older than her and wiser. But of course Alexei saw it. How he heard I do not know, but
that same day he came to me and he seemed to be very kind.

I don't know what he said, but he explained that Vera would always be unhappy now, always,
longing and waiting and hoping.... "Keep him here in Russia!" he whispered to me. "She will
get tired of him then--they will tire of one another; but if you send him away...." Oh! he
is a devil, Ivan Andreievitch, and why has he persecuted me so? What have I ever done to him?
Nothing... but for weeks now he has pursued me and destroyed my inventions, and flung Russia
in my face and made Nina, dear Nina, laugh at me, and now, when the other things are finished,
he shows me that Vera will be unhappy so long as I am alive. What have I ever done, Ivan Andreievitch?
I am so unimportant, why has he taken such a trouble? To-day I gave him his last chance...
or last night... it is four in the morning now, and the bells are already ringing for the early
Mass. I said to him:

"Will you go away? Leave us all for ever? Will you promise never to return?"

He said in that dreadful quiet sure way of his: "No, I will never go away until you make me."

Vera hates him. I cannot leave her alone with him, can I? I (here there are three lines of
illegible writing)... so I will think again and again of that last time when we sat together
and all the good things that she said. What greatness of soul, what goodness, what splendour!
And perhaps after all I am a fortunate man to be allowed to be faithful to so fine a grandeur!
Many men have poor ambitions, and God bestows His gifts with strange blindness, I often think.
But I am tired, and you too will be tired. Perhaps you have not got so far. I must thank you
for your friendship to me. I am very grateful for it. And you, if afterwards you ever think
of me, think that I always wished to... no, why should you think of me at all? But think of
Russia! That is why I write this. You love Russia, and I believe that you will continue to
love Russia whatever she will do. Never forget that it is because she cares so passionately
for the good of the world that she makes so many mistakes. She sees farther than other countries,
and she cares more. But she is also more ignorant. She has never been allowed to learn anything
or to try to do anything for herself.

You are all too impatient, too strongly aware of your own conditions, too ignorant of hers!
Of course there are wicked men here and many idle men, but every country has such. You must
not judge her by that nor by all the talk you hear. We talk like blind men on a dark road....
Do you believe that there are no patriots here? Ah! how bitterly I have been disappointed during
these last weeks! It has broken my heart... but do not let your heart be broken. You can wait.
You are young. Believe in Russian patriotism, believe in Russian future, believe in Russian
soul.... Try to be patient and understand that she is blindfolded, ignorant, stumbling... but
the glory will come; I can see it shining far away!... It is not for me, but for you--and for
Vera... for Vera... Vera....

Here the letter ended; only scrawled very roughly across the paper the letters N.M....

XIV

As soon as I had finished reading the letter I went to the telephone and rang up the Markovitches'
flat. Bohun spoke to me. I asked him whether Nicholas was there, he said, "Yes, fast asleep
in the arm-chair," Was Semyonov there? "No, he was dining out that night." I asked him to remind
Vera that I was expecting to take her to the meeting next day, and rang off. There was nothing
more to be done just then. Two minutes later there was a knock on my door and Vera came in.

"Why!" I cried. "I've just been ringing up to tell you that, of course, I was coming on Monday."

"That is partly what I wanted to know," she said, smiling. "And also I thought that you'd fancied
we'd all deserted you."

"No," I answered. "I don't expect you round here every time I'm ill. That would be absurd.
You'll be glad to know at any rate that I've decided to give up these ridiculous rooms. I deserve
all the illness I get so long as I'm here."

"Yes, that's good," she answered. "How you could have stayed so long--" She dropped into a
chair, closed her eyes and lay back. "Oh, Ivan Andreievitch, but I'm tired!"

She looked, lying there, white-faced, her eyelids like grey shadows, utterly exhausted. I waited
in silence. After a time she opened her eyes and said, suddenly:

"We all come and talk to you, don't we? I, Nina, Nicholas, Sherry (she meant Lawrence), even
Uncle Alexei. I wonder why we do, because we never take your advice, you know.... Perhaps it's
because you seem right outside everything."

I coloured a little at that.

"Did I hurt you?... I'm sorry. No, I don't know that I am. I don't mind now whether I hurt
any one. You know that he's going back to England?"

I nodded my head.

"He told you himself?"

"Yes," I said.

She lay back in her chair and was silent for a long time.

"You think I'm a noble woman, don't you. Oh yes, you do! I can see you just thirsting for my
nobility. It's what Uncle Alexei always says about you, that you've learnt from Dostoieffsky
how to be noble, and it's become a habit with you."

"If you're going to believe--" I began angrily.

"Oh, I hate him! I listen to nothing that he says. All the same, Durdles, this passion for
nobility on your part is very irritating. I can see you now making up the most magnificent
picture of my nobility. I'm sure if you were ever to write a book about us all, you'd write
of me something like this: 'Vera Michailovna had won her victory. She had achieved her destiny....
Having surrendered her lover she was as fine as a Greek statue!' Something like that.... Oh,
I can see you at it!"

"You don't understand--" I began.

"Oh, but I do!" she answered. "I've watched your attitude to me from the first. You wanted
to make poor Nina noble, and then Nicholas, and then, because they wouldn't either of them
do, you had to fall back upon me: memories of that marvellous woman at the Front, Marie some
one or other, have stirred up your romantic soul until it's all whipped cream and jam--mulberry
jam, you know, so as to have the proper dark colour."

"Why all this attack on me?" I asked. "What have I done?"

"You've done nothing," she cried. "We all love you, Durdles, because you're such a baby, because
you dream such dreams, see nothing as it is.... And perhaps after all you're right--your vision
is as good as another. But this time you've made me restless. You're never to see me as a noble
woman again, Ivan Andreievitch. See me as I am, just for five minutes! I haven't a drop of
noble feeling in my soul!"

"You've just given him up," I said. "You've sent him back to England, although you adore him,
because your duty's with your husband. You're breaking your heart--"

"Yes, I am breaking my heart," she said quietly. "I'm a dead woman without him. And it's my
weakness, my cowardice, that is sending him away. What would a French woman or an English woman
have done? Given up the world for their lover. Given up a thousand Nicholases, sacrificed a
hundred Ninas--that's real life. That's real, I tell you. What feeling is there in my soul
that counts for a moment beside my feeling for Sherry? I say and I feel and I know that I would
die for him, die with him, happily, gladly. Those are no empty words.

"I who have never been in love before, I am devoured by it now until there is nothing left
of me--nothing.... And yet I remain. It is our weakness, our national idleness. I haven't the
strength to leave Nicholas. I am soft, sentimental, about his unhappiness. Pah! how I despise
myself.... I am capable of living on here for years with husband and lover, going from one
to another, weeping for both of them. Already I am pleading with Sherry that he should remain
here. We will see what will happen. We will see what will happen! Ah, my contempt for myself!
Without bones, without energy, without character.

"But this is life, Ivan Andreievitch! I stay here, I send him away because I cannot bear to
see Nicholas suffer. And I do not care for Nicholas. Do you understand that? I never loved
him, and now I have a contempt for him--in spite of myself. Uncle Alexei has done that. Oh
yes! He has made a fool of Nicholas for months, and although I have hated him for doing that,
I have seen, also, what a fool Nicholas is! But he is a hero, too. Make him as noble as you
like, Ivan Andreievitch. You cannot colour it too high. He is the real thing and I am the sham....
But oh! I do not want to live with him any more, I am tired of him, his experiments, his lamentations,
his weakness, his lack of humour--tired of him, sick of him. And yet I cannot leave him, because
I am soft, soft without bones, like my country, Ivan Andreievitch.... My lover is strong. Nothing
can change his will. He will go, will leave me, until he knows that I am free. Then he will
never leave me again.

"Perhaps I will get tired of his strength one day--it may be--just as now I am tired of Nicholas's
weakness. Everything has its end.

"But no! he has humour, and he sees life as it is. I shall be able always to tell him the truth.
With Nicholas it is always lies...."

She suddenly sprang up and stood before me.

"Now, do you think me noble?" she cried.

"Yes," I answered.

"Ah! you are incorrigible! You have drunk Dostoieffsky until you can see nothing but God and
the moujik! But I am alive, Ivan Andreievitch, not a heroine in a book! Alive, alive, alive!
Not one of your Lisas or Annas or Natashas. I'm alive enough to shoot Uncle Alexei and poison
Nicholas--but I'm soft too, soft so that I cannot bear to see a rabbit killed... and yet I
love Sherry so that I am blind for him and deaf for him and dead for him--when he is not there.
My love--the only one of my life--the first and the last--"

She flung out her arms:

"Life! Now! Before it is too late! I want it, I want him, I want happiness!"

She stood thus for a moment, staring out to the sea. Then her arms dropped, she laughed, fastening
her cloak--

"There's your nobility, Ivan Andreievitch--theatrical, all of it. I know what I am, and I know
what I shall do. Nicholas will live to eighty; I also. I shall hate him, but I shall he in
an agony when he cuts his finger. I shall never see Sherry again. Later, he will marry a fresh
English girl like an apple.... I, because I am weak, soft putty--I have made it so."

She turned away from me, staring desperately at the wall. When she looked back to me her face
was grey.

She smiled. "What a baby you are!... But take care of yourself. Don't come on Monday if it's
bad weather. Good-bye."

She went.

After a bad, sleepless night, and a morning during which I dozed in a nightmareish kind of
way, I got up early in the afternoon, had some tea, and about six o'clock started out.

It was a lovely evening; the spring light was in the air, the tufted trees beside the canal
were pink against the pale sky, and thin layers of ice, like fragments of jade, broke the soft
blue of the water. How pleasant to feel the cobbles firm beneath one's feet, to know that the
snow was gone for many months, and that light now would flood the streets and squares! Nevertheless,
my foreboding was not raised, and the veils of colour hung from house to house and from street
to street could not change the realities of the scene.

I climbed the stairs to the flat and found Vera waiting for me. She was with Uncle Ivan, who,
I found to my disappointment, was coming with us.

We started off.

"We can walk across to the Bourse," she said. "It's such a lovely evening, and we're a little
early."

We talked of nothing but the most ordinary things; Uncle Ivan's company prevented anything
else. To say that I cursed him is to put it very mildly. He had been, I believe, oblivious
of all the scenes that had occurred during the last weeks. If the Last Judgement occurred under
his very nose, and he had had a cosy meal in front of him, he would have noticed nothing. The
Revolution had had no effect on him at all; it did not seem strange to him that Semyonov should
come to live with them; he had indeed fancied that Nicholas had not "been very well" lately,
but then Nicholas had always been an odd and cantankerous fellow, and he, as he told me, never
paid too much attention to his moods. His one anxiety was lest Sacha should be hindered from
her usual shopping on the morrow, it being May Day, when there would be processions and other
tiresome things. He hoped that there was enough food in the house.

"There will be cold cutlets and cheese," Vera said.

He told me that he really did not know why he was going to this meeting. He took no interest
in politics, and he hated speeches, but he would like to see our Ambassador. He had heard that
he was always excellently dressed....

Vera said very little. Her troubles that evening must have been accumulating upon her with
terrible force--I did not know, at that time, about her night-scene with Nicholas. She was
very quiet, and just as we entered the building she whispered to me:

"Once over to-morrow--"

I did not catch the rest. People pressed behind us, and for a moment we were separated; we
were not alone again. I have wondered since what she meant by that, whether she had a foreboding
or some more definite warning, or whether she simply referred to the danger of riots and general
lawlessness. I shall never know now.

I had expected a crowded meeting, but I was not prepared for the multitude that I found. We
entered by a side-door, and then passed up a narrow passage, which led us to the reserved seats
at the side of the platform. I had secured these some days before. In the dark passage one
could realise nothing; important gentlemen in frock-coats, officers, and one or two soldiers,
were hurrying to and fro, with an air of having a great deal to do, and not knowing at all
how to do it. Beyond the darkness there was a steady hum, like the distant whirr of a great
machine. There was a very faint smell in the air of boots and human flesh. A stout gentleman
with a rosette in his buttonhole showed us to our seats. Vera sat between Uncle Ivan and myself.
When I looked about me I was amazed. The huge hall was packed so tightly with human beings
that one could see nothing but wave on wave of faces, or, rather, the same face, repeated again
and again and again, the face of a baby, of a child, of a credulous, cynical dreamer, a face
the kindest, the naïvest, the cruellest, the most friendly, the most human, the most savage,
the most Eastern, and the most Western in the world.

That vast presentation of that reiterated visage seemed suddenly to explain everything to me.
I felt at once the stupidity of any appeal, and the instant necessity for every kind of appeal.
I felt the negation, the sudden slipping into insignificant unimportance of the whole of the
Western world--and, at the same time, the dismissal of the East. "No longer my masters" a voice
seemed to cry from the very heart of that multitude. "No longer will we halt at your command,
no longer will your words be wisdom to us, no longer shall we smile with pleasure at your stories,
and cringe with fear at your displeasure; you may hate our defection, you may lament our disloyalty,
you may bribe us and smile upon us, you may preach to us and bewail our sins. We are no longer
yours--WE ARE OUR OWN--Salute a new world, for it is nothing less that you see before you!..."

And yet never were there forces more unconscious of their destiny--utterly unselfconscious
as animals, babies, the flowers of the field. Still there to be driven, perhaps to be persuaded,
to be whipped, to be cajoled, to be blinded, to be tricked and deceived, drugged and deafened--but
not for long! The end of that old world had come--the new world was at hand--"Life begins to-morrow!"

The dignitaries came upon the platform, and, beyond them all, in distinction, nobility, wisdom
was our own Ambassador. This is no place for a record of the discretion and tact and forbearance
that he had shown during those last two years. To him had fallen perhaps the most difficult
work of all in the war. It might seem that on broad grounds the Allies had failed with Russia,
but the end was not yet, and in years to come, when England reaps unexpected fruit from her
Russian alliance, let her remember to whom she owed it. No one could see him there that night
without realising that there stood before Russia, as England's representative, not only a great
courtier and statesman, but a great gentleman, who had bonds of courage and endurance that
linked him to the meanest soldier there.

I have emphasised this because he gave the note to the whole meeting. Again and again one's
eyes came back to him and always that high brow, that unflinching carriage of the head, the
nobility and breeding of every movement gave one reassurance and courage. One's own troubles
seemed small beside that example, and the tangled morality of that vexed time seemed to be
tested by a simpler and higher standard.

It was altogether a strange affair. At first it lacked interest, some member of the Italian
Embassy spoke, I think, and then some one from Serbia. The audience was apathetic. All those
bodies, so tightly wedged together that arms and legs were held in an iron vice, stayed motionless,
and once and again there would be a short burst of applause or a sibilant whisper, but it would
be something mechanical and uninspired. I could see one soldier, in the front row behind the
barrier, a stout fellow with a face of supreme good humour, down whose forehead the sweat began
to trickle; he was patient for a while, then he tried to raise his hand. He could not move
without sending a ripple down the whole front line. Heads were turned indignantly in his direction.
He submitted; then the sweat trickled into his eyes. He made a superhuman effort and half raised
his arm; the crowd pushed again and his arm fell. His face wore an expression of ludicrous
despair....

The hall got hotter and hotter. Soldiers seemed to be still pressing in at the back. The Italian
gentleman screamed and waved his arms, but the faces turned up to his were blank and amiably
expressionless.

"It is indeed terribly hot," said Uncle Ivan.

Then came a sailor from the Black Sea Fleet who had made himself famous during these weeks
by his impassioned oratory. He was a thin dark-eyed fellow, and he obviously knew his business.
He threw himself at once into the thick of it all, paying no attention to the stout frock-coated
gentlemen who sat on the platform, dealing out no compliments, whether to the audience or the
speakers, wasting no time at all. He told them all that they had debts to pay, that their honour
was at stake, and that Europe was watching them. I don't know that that Face that stared at
him cared very greatly for Europe, but it is certain that a breath of emotion passed across
it, that there was a stir, a movement, a response....

He sat down, there was a roar of applause; he regarded them contemptuously. At that moment
I caught sight of Boris Grogoff. I had been on the watch for him. I had thought it very likely
that he would be there. Well, there he was, at the back of the crowd, listening with a contemptuous
sneer on his face, and a long golden curl poking out from under his cap.

And then something else occurred--something really strange. I was conscious, as one sometimes
is in a crowd, that I was being stared at by some one deliberately. I looked about me, and
then, led by the attraction of the other's gaze, I saw quite close to me, on the edge of the
crowd nearest to the platform, the Rat.

He was dressed rather jauntily in a dark suit with his cup set on one side, and his hair shining
and curled. His face glittered with soap, and he was smiling in his usual friendly way. He
gazed at me quite steadily. My lips moved very slightly in recognition. He smiled and, I fancy,
winked.

Then, as though he had actually spoken to me, I seemed to hear him say:

"Well, good-bye.... I'm never coming to you again. Good-bye, good-bye."

It was as definite a farewell as you can have from a man, more definite than you will have
from most, as though, further, he said: "I'm gone for good and all. I have other company and
more profitable plunder. On the back of our glorious Revolution I rise from crime to crime....
Good-bye."

I was, in sober truth, never to speak to him again. I cannot but regret that on the last occasion
when I should have a real opportunity of looking him full in the face, he was to offer me a
countenance of friendly good-humour and amiable rascality.

I shall have, until I die, a feeling of tenderness....

I was recalled from my observation of Grogoff and the Rat by the sensation that the waters
of emotion were rising higher around me. I raised my eyes and saw that the Belgian Consul was
addressing the meeting. He was a stout little man, with eye-glasses and a face of no importance,
but it was quite obvious at once that he was most terribly in earnest. Because he did not know
the Russian language he was under the unhappy necessity of having a translator, a thin and
amiable Russian, who suffered from short sight and a nervous stammer.

He could not therefore have spoken under heavier disadvantages, and my heart ached for him.
It need not have done so. He started in a low voice, and they shouted to him to speak up. At
the end of his first paragraph the amiable Russian began his translation, sticking his nose
into the paper, losing the place and stuttering over his sentences. There was a restless movement
in the hall, and the poor Belgian Consul seemed lost. He was made, however, of no mean stuff.
Before the Russian had finished his translation the little man had begun again. This time he
had stepped forward, waving his glasses and his head and his hand, bending forward and backward,
his voice rising and rising. At the end of his next paragraph he paused and, because the Russian
was slow and stammering once again, went forward on ids own account. Soon he forgot himself,
his audience, his translator, everything except his own dear Belgium. His voice rose and rose;
he pleaded with a marvellous rhythm of eloquence her history, her fate, her shameful devastation.
He appealed on behalf of her murdered children, her ravished women, her slaughtered men.

He appealed on behalf of her Arts, her Cathedrals, and libraries ruined, her towns plundered.
He told a story, very quietly, of an old grandfather and grandmother murdered and their daughter
ravished before the eyes of her tiny children. Here he himself began to shed tears. He tried
to brush them back. He paused and wiped his eyes.... Finally, breaking down altogether, he
turned away and hid his face....

I do not suppose that there were more than a dozen persons in that hall who understood anything
of the language in which he spoke. Certainly it was the merest gibberish to that whole army
of listening men. Nevertheless, with every word that he uttered the emotion grew tenser. Cries--little
sharp cries like the bark of a puppy--broke out here and there. "Verrno! Verrno! Verrno! (True!
True! True!)" Movements, like the swift finger of the wind on the sea, hovered, wavered, and
vanished....

He turned back to them, his voice broken with sobs, and he could only cry the one word "Belgia...
Belgia... Belgia"... To that they responded. They began to shout, to cry aloud. The screams
of "Verrno... Verrno" rose until it seemed that the roof would rise with them. The air was
filled with shouts, "Bravo for the Allies." "Soyousniki! Soyousniki!" Men raised their caps
and waved them, smiled upon one another as though they had suddenly heard wonderful news, shouted
and shouted and shouted... and in the midst of it all the little rotund Belgian Consul stood
bowing and wiping his eyes.

How pleased we all were! I whispered to Vera: "You see! They do care! Their hearts are touched.
We can do anything with them now!"

Even Uncle Ivan was moved, and murmured to himself "Poor Belgium! Poor Belgium!"

How delighted, too, were the gentlemen on the platform. Smiling, they whispered to one another,
and I saw several shake hands. A great moment. The little Consul bowed finally and sat down.

Never shall I forget the applause that followed. Like one man the thousands shouted, tears
raining down their cheeks, shaking hands, even embracing! A vast movement, as though the wind
had caught them and driven them forward, rose, lifted them, so that they swayed like bending
corn towards the platform, for an instant we were all caught up together. There was one great
cry: "Belgium!"

The sound rose, fell, sunk into a muttering whisper, died to give way to the breathless attention
that awaited the next speaker.

I whispered to Vera: "I shall never forget that. I'm going to leave on that. It's good enough
for me."

"Yes," she said, "we'll go."

"What a pity," whispered Uncle Ivan, "that they didn't understand what they were shouting about."

We slipped out behind the platform; turned down the dark long passage, hearing the new speaker's
voice like a bell ringing beyond thick walls, and found our way into the open.

The evening was wonderfully fresh and clear. The Neva lay before us like a blue scarf, and
the air faded into colourless beauty above the dark purple of the towers and domes. Vera caught
my arm: "Look!" she whispered. "There's Boris!" I knew that she had on several occasions tried
to force her way into his flat, that she had written every day to Nina (letters as it afterwards
appeared, that Boris kept from her). I was afraid that she would do something violent.

"Wait!" I whispered, "perhaps Nina is here somewhere."

Grogoff was standing with another man on a small improvised platform just outside the gates
of the Bourse.

As the soldiers came out (many of them were leaving now on the full tide of their recent emotions)
Grogoff and his friend caught them, held them, and proceeded to instruct their minds.

I caught some of Grogoff's sentences: "Tovaristchi!" I heard him cry, "Comrades! Listen to
me. Don't allow your feelings to carry you away! You have serious responsibilities now, and
the thing for you to do is not to permit sentiment to make you foolish. Who brought you into
this war? Your leaders? No, your old masters. They bled you and robbed you and slaughtered
you to fill their own pockets. Who is ruling the world now? The people to whom the world truly
belongs? No, the Capitalists, the money-grubbers, the old thieves like Nicholas who is now
under lock and key... Capitalists... England, France... Thieves, Robbers....

"Belgium? What is Belgium to you? Did you swear to protect her people? Does England, who pretends
such loving care for Belgium, does she look after Ireland? What about her persecution of South
Africa? Belgium? Have you heard what she did in the Congo?..."

As the men came, talking, smiling, wiping their eyes, they were caught by Grogoff's voice.
They stood there and listened. Soon they began to nod their heads. I heard them muttering that
good old word "Verrno! Verrno!" again. The crowd grew. The men began to shout their approval.
"Aye! it's true," I heard a solder near me mutter. "The English are thieves"; and another "Belgium?...
After all I could not understand a word of what that little fat man said."

I heard no more, but I did not wonder now at the floods that were rising and rising, soon to
engulf the whole of this great country. The end of this stage of our story was approaching
for all of us.

We three had stood back, a little in the shadow, gazing about to see whether we could hail a cab.

As we waited I took my last look at Grogoff, his stout figure against the purple sky, the masts
of the ships, the pale tumbling river, the black line of the farther shore. He stood, his arms
waving, his mouth open, the personification of the disease from which Russia was suffering.

A cab arrived. I turned, said as it were, my farewell to Grogoff and everything for which he
stood, and went.

We drove home almost in silence. Vera, staring in front of her, her face proud and reserved,
building up a wall of her own thoughts.

"Come in for a moment, won't you?" she asked me, rather reluctantly I thought. But I accepted,
climbed the stairs and followed Uncle Ivan's stubby and self-satisfied progress into the flat.

I heard Vera cry. I hurried after her and found, standing close together, in the middle of
the room Henry Bohun and Nina!

With a little sob of joy and shame too, Nina was locked in Vera's arms.

XV

This is obviously the place for the story, based, of course, on the very modest and slender
account given me by the hero of it, of young Bohun's knightly adventure. In its inception the
whole affair is still mysterious to me. Looking back from this distance of time I see that
he was engaged on one knightly adventure after another--first Vera, then Markovitch, lastly
Nina. The first I caught at the very beginning, the second I may be said to have inspired,
but to the third I was completely blind. I was blind, I suppose, because, in the first place,
Nina had, from the beginning, laughed at Bohun, and in the second, she had been entirely occupied
with Lawrence.

Bohun's knight-errantry came upon her with, I am sure, as great a shock of surprise as it did
upon me. And yet, when you come to think of it, it was the most natural thing. They were the
only two of our party who had any claim to real youth, and they were still so young that they
could believe in one ideal after another as quick as you can catch goldfish in a bowl of water.
Bohun would, of course, have indignantly denied that he was out to help anybody, but that,
nevertheless, was the direction in which his character led him; and once Russia had stripped
from him that thin coat of self-satisfaction, he had nothing to do but mount his white charger
and enter the tournament.

I've no idea when he first thought of Nina. He did not, of course, like her at the beginning,
and I doubt whether she caused him any real concern, too, until her flight to Grogoff. That
shocked him terribly. He confessed as much to me. She had always been so happy and easy about
life. Nothing was serious to her. I remember once telling her she ought to take the war more
deeply. I was a bit of a prig about it, I suppose. At any rate she thought me one.... And then
to go off to a fellow like Grogoff!

He thought of it the more seriously when he saw the agony Vera was in. She did not ask him
to help her, and so he did nothing; but he watched her efforts, the letters that she wrote,
the eagerness with which she ravished the post, her fruitless visits to Grogoff's flat, her
dejected misery over her failure. He began himself to form plans, not, I am convinced, from
any especial affection for Nina, but simply because he had the soul of a knight, although,
thank God, he didn't know it. I expect, too, that he was pretty dissatisfied with his knight-errantries.
His impassioned devotion to Vera had led to nothing at all, his enthusiasm for Russia had led
to a most unsatisfactory Revolution, and his fatherly protection of Markovitch had inspired
apparently nothing more fruitful than distrust. I would like to emphasise that it was in no
way from any desire to interfere in other people's affairs that young Bohun undertook these
Quests. He had none of my own meddlesome quality. He had, I think, very little curiosity and
no psychological self-satisfaction, but he had a kind heart, an adventurous spirit, and a hatred
for the wrong and injustice which seemed just now to be creeping about the world; but all this,
again thank God, was entirely subconscious. He knew nothing whatever about himself.

The thought of Nina worried him more and more. After he went to bed at night, he would hear
her laugh and see her mocking smile and listen to her shrill imitations of his own absurdities.
She had been the one happy person amongst them all, and now--! Well, he had seen enough of
Boris Grogoff to know what sort of fellow he was. He came at last to the conclusion that, after
a week or two she would be "sick to death of it," and longing to get away, but then "her pride
would keep her at it. She'd got a devil of a lot of pride." He waited, then, for a while, and
hoped, I suppose, that some of Vera's appeals would succeed. They did not; and then it struck
him that Vera was the very last person to whom Nina would yield--just because she wanted to
yield to her most, which was pretty subtle of him and very near the truth.

No one else seemed to be making any very active efforts, and at last he decided that he must
do something himself. He discovered Grogoff's address, went to the Gagarinskaya and looked
up at the flat, hung about a bit in the hope of seeing Nina. Then he did see her at Rozanov's
party, and this, although he said nothing to me about it at the time, had a tremendous effect
on him. He thought she looked "awful." All the joy had gone from her; she was years older,
miserable, and defiant. He didn't speak to her, but from that night he made up his mind. Rozanov's
party may be said to have been really the turning-point of his life. It was the night that
he came out of his shell, grew up, faced the world--and it was the night that he discovered
that he cared about Nina.

The vision of her poor little tired face, her "rather dirty white dress," her "grown-up" hair,
her timidity and her loneliness, never left him for a moment. All the time that I thought he
was occupied only with the problem of Markovitch and Semyonov, he was much more deeply occupied
with Nina. So unnaturally secretive can young men be!

At last he decided on a plan. He chose the Monday, the day of the Bourse meeting, because he
fancied that Grogoff would be present at that and he might therefore catch Nina alone, and
because he and his fellow-propagandists would be expected also at the meeting and he would
therefore be free of his office earlier on that afternoon. He had no idea at all how he would
get into the flat, but he thought that fortune would be certain to favour him. He always thought
that.

Well, fortune did. He left the office and arrived in the Gagarinskaya about half-past five
in the evening. He walked about a little, and then saw a bearded tall fellow drive up in an
Isvostchick. He recognised this man as Lenin, the soul of the anti-Government party, and a
man who was afterwards to figure very prominently in Russia's politics. This fellow argued
very hotly with the Isvostchick about his fare, then vanished through the double doors. Bohun
followed him. Outside Grogoff's flat Lenin waited and rang the bell. Bohun waited on the floor
below; then, when he heard the door open, he noiselessly slipped up the stairs, and, as Lenin
entered, followed behind him whilst the old servant's back was turned helping Lenin with his
coat. He found, as he had hoped, a crowd of cloaks and a Shuba hanging beside the door in the
dark corner of the wall. He crept behind these. He heard Lenin say to the servant that, after
all, he would not take off his coat, as he was leaving again immediately. Then directly afterwards
Grogoff came into the hall.

That was the moment of crisis. Did Grogoff go to the rack for his coat and all was over; a
very unpleasant scene must follow--a ludicrous expulsion, a fling or two at the amiable habits
of thieving and deceit on the part of the British nation, and any hope of seeing Nina ruined
perhaps for ever. Worst of all, the ignominy of it! No young man likes to be discovered hidden
behind a coat-rack, however honest his original intentions!

His heart beat to suffocation as he peeped between the coats.... Grogoff was already wearing
his own overcoat. It was, thank God, too warm an evening for a Shuba. The men shook hands,
and Grogoff saying something rather deferentially about the meeting, Lenin, in short, brusque
tones, put him immediately in his place. Then they went out together, the door closed behind
them, and the flat was as silent as an aquarium. He waited for a while, and then, hearing nothing,
crept into the hall. Perhaps Nina was out. If the old servant saw him she would think him a
burglar and would certainly scream. He pushed back the door in front of him, stepped forward,
and almost stepped upon Nina!

She gave a little cry, not seeing whom it was. She was looking very untidy, her hair loose
down her back, and a rough apron over her dress. She looked ill, and there were heavy black
lines under her eyes as though she had not slept for weeks.

Then she saw who it was and, in spite of herself, smiled.

"Genry!" she exclaimed.

"Yes," he said in a whisper, closing the door very softly behind him. "Look here, don't scream
or do anything foolish. I don't want that old woman to catch me."

He has no very clear memory of the conversation that followed. She stood with her back to the
wall, storing at him, and every now and again taking up a corner of her pinafore and biting
it. He remembered that action of hers especially as being absurdly childish. But the overwhelming
impression that he had of her was of her terror--terror of everything and of everybody, of
everybody apparently except himself. (She told him afterwards that he was the only person in
the world who could have rescued her just then because she simply couldn't be frightened of
some one at whom she'd laughed so often.) She was terrified, of course, of Grogoff--she couldn't
mention his name without trembling--but she was terrified also of the old servant, of the flat,
of the room, of the clock, of every sound or hint of a sound that there was in the world. She
to be so frightened! She of whom he would have said that she was equal to any one or anything!
What she must have been through during those weeks to have brought her to this!... But she
told him very little. He urged her at once that she must come away with him, there and then,
just as she was. She simply shook her head at that. "No... No... No..." she kept repeating.
"You don't understand."

"I do understand," he answered, always whispering, and with one ear on the door lest the old
woman should hear and come in. "We've got very little time," he said. "Grogoff will never let
you go if he's here. I know why you don't come back--you think we'll all look down on you for
having gone. But that's nonsense. We are all simply miserable without you."

